{"id": "2163831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2163831", "title": "Abdullah ibn Ja'far", "text": "Abdullah ibn Ja'far\n\nAbdullah ibn Ja'far () was a companion and relative of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and a nephew of Ali. Muhammad ibn Abu Bakr was his step brother. He was loyal to Ahl al-Bayt in spite of his absent in Karbala, it is attributed to his credit saying that thanks to Almight Allah, if I could not support Hussain ibn Ali in Karbala my two sons (Aun o Muhammad) did. According to Richard Francis Burton he widely recognized as the most sympathetic amongst Arabs. His grave is situated near Aqeel ibn Abi Talib and Abu Sufiyan bin al-Haris (the grandson of Abd al-Muttalib) in Janatual Baqi) \nHe was the son of Ja'far ibn Abu Talib and Asma bint Umais. They had emigrated to Abyssinia in 616, and Abdullah and his two brothers were born there. Abdullah was the first of Muslims to be born in the land of Abyssinia After birth of Abdullah in Abyssinia (Habesha Presently Ethiopia), king of the Kingdom of Aksum ( Al-Najashi) was blessed with a son too. He immediately asked the parents of Abdullah Ibn Jaffar about the name of their child. Upon knowing the name of Jaffar family, King of Abyssinia also chose the name “Abdullah” for his first son. It is also stated that Asma bint Umays was the nursing mother of son of Abyssinian King. The younger brother of Abdullah appears to be the first child in the Muslim history who was named Muhammad after the Prophet of Islam.\nThe family returned to Arabia in 628 and settled in Medina.\n\nIn addition to Ibn Hajar' reference,it is said that after 3 days of Jafar’s death Muhammad went to house of Asma and called for children of Jafar. He then said about each of them “As for Muhammad, he resemble our uncle Abi Talib. As for Abdullah, he resembles me in terms of both my appearance and character. Afterward, Muhammad took the right hand of Abdullah and said “O Allah, provide a successor for Jafar in his family, and bless Abdullah in his business, and repeated this appeal to Al-mighty thrice. Muhammad instructed the sons of Abi Talib, namely Jafar, Aqeel and Ali that they should arrange marriages of their children with their cousins.\n\nAli had particularly wished that his daughters should marry Ja'far's sons. When Abdullah asked for Zainab's hand, Ali accepted it. Abdullah and Zainab had five children.\n\nAccording to Shaikh Muhammad Abbas Qummi, he had 20 sons from different wives, including 5 children from Zainab Binte Ali. Daira-e-Maarif Islamia (Circle of Islamic Knowledge) of University of Punjab (pages 568-70, Vol.X) describes that Zainabi is a progeny of Abdullah’s son Ali through Zainab binte Ali\n\nAbdullah Bin Jaffar-e-Tayyar was one of the richest people in Madina and a famous philanthropist who was called as “Bahrul Joud” which means an ocean of charity.\n\nWhen Ali became the Caliph in 656 and moved from Medina to Kufa, Zainab and Abdullah joined him.\n\nIt is related that Zainab already forecast the journey (journey to Karbala) before her marriage and permission for accompanying with her brother was obtained during marriage negotiations.\nWith regard to Absent of Abdullah in battle of Karbala, it is said it was due to his poor eye sighting consequently he was unable to bear the rigidities of journey and war. Knowing Hussain’s journey to Kufa, Zainab, the wife of Abdullah ibn Jaffar begged her husband’s permission to accompany her brother. Realizing anxiousness of her husband she stated that:\nAbdullah then granted his permission and sent their two sons for the destined journey.\n\nAbdullah was concurrently married to Layla bint Masud. With reference to books ‘Nasab e Quraish Page-83’ and ‘Jameerath ul Nasab by Ibn Hazm page 62’ it is described that Layla Binte Masood bin Khalid was “Zoja-e-Sani (second wife)” through this marriage he had two daughters (Umme Muhammad and Umme Abhiha) and four sons (Yahya, Haroon, Suleh & Musa).\n\nIt is also found in books that after divorcing Zainab, Abdullah married her sister, Umm Kulthum bint Ali, who was the widow of his brother Muhammad. This marriage was childless, and Umm Kulthum predeceased Abdullah. In line with Twelver’s rebuttal of divorce, Muhammad Al-Munajjid writes that Zainab died while married to him (Abdullah bin Jafar). There are many existing descendants of Zaynab and Abdullaah ibn Ja’far.\n\nBattles:With regard to his presence in the Battle of Camel, it is indicated that at the end of Battle, while entrusting save return of mother of Believers to Medina under security of her brother Muhammad Bin Abi Bakar, Ali ordered for payment of 12,000/- Dirhams to Aisha. Abdullah thinking that amount as too little, brought out a huge sum for Aisha, the wife of the Prophet. According to Ahmad ibn A'tham in battle of Siffin he was commanding the infantry in the army of Ali bin Abi Talib together with his cousin Muslim bin Aqeel, Muhammad bin Hanfia and step brother Muhammad bin Abi Bakar.\n\nPolitics:He was a staunch supporter of his uncle Ali in the Civil War but later disdained from politics. He maintained a reputation for liberality and patronage in Medina, earning him the nickname “the Ocean of Generosity”. After killing of Ali Ibn Abi Talib, Abdullah bin Jaffar together with his cousins Hassan and Hussain participated in washing the body and dressed him for burial in three robes without a Kurta (a long shirt).\n\nIn addition to some spy reporting to Ali Ibn Abi Talib that Qays bin Sad bin Ubadah, his governor at Egypt had given allegiance to Muawiya, he received his letter which was written in perspective of affairs emerged on account of a conspiracy caused by opponent of Ali. Ali called his sons and Abdallah bin Ja'far and consulted the matter. Upon advice of Abdullah, Ali wrote a letter ordering Qays bin Sad to seek the people to give their allegiance as the Muslims have done (after the 3rd Caliph). But, if they do not, then fight them. The governor of Egypt against this communication wrote a letter to Ali Ibn Abi Talib. Then Abdullah Bin Jaffar requested his father in law to replace Qays bin Sad bin Ubadah with Muhammad Bin Abi Bakar as governor of Egypt and pleaded that if he really has gone over to Mu`awiyah, he will refuse to give up Egypt. However, according to Tabri it was a poor advice consequent to meeting of Qays bin Sad with Ali during the period of killing of Muhammad bin Abi Bakar.\n\nOnce a Chief of Iraqi village asked Abdullah Bin Jafar to recommend his case before Caliph Ali for accomplishment. He did so and matter of that chief was satisfied by Ali Ibn Abi Talib. As a gratification the chief sent 40,000 Darhims through some people to Abdullah, who refused the money saying that we do not sell our good deeds\n\nKnowing death of his two sons in the battle of Karbala, people were offering condolences to Abdullah, one of his Mawili (Abu al-Lislas [a companion]) said that “this is what we have met and what has come upon us through Hussain Ibn Ali” on this statement he struck him with his sandal and told that I am pleased that my two sons killed with my brother and cousin. By God! If I had been present with him, I would have preferred not to leave him in order that I would be killed with him. He then seeking attention of people consoling him, said that “Praise be to God, Who has made life hard, console Hussain Ibn Ali with my own hands, my two sons consoled him. \n\nAccording to Ibn Khaldun in chapter 2 volume II title “Yazid-I” from 60 to 64 AH, it is described that Abdullah sent a letter through his sons Awn & Muhammad, to Hussain, requesting that “for God sack come back”. It is my advice to you in anxiety that you would be killed and Ahle-Bayt destroyed. As a result, earth’s light will come to an end, there would be no leader for Muslims. Please do not hurry in journey, I would be reaching there after this letter. Later he went to Amr bin Said who was Yazid's governor of Mecca and asked him to write a letter to Hussain offering him a guarantee of harmless behavior assuring him your kindness and open-handedness. Show trust to him in your letter and request him to return. This letter was replied by Hussain too.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2156348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2156348", "title": "Afonso de Paiva", "text": "Afonso de Paiva\n\nAfonso de Paiva (c. 1443 – c. 1490) was a Portuguese diplomat and explorer of Ethiopia and the Barbary Coast together with Pêro da Covilhã. According to James Bruce, Afonso left Pêro da Covilhã at Aden, and proceeded to Suakin where he hoped to join a caravan to his destination. The further details of his life are not recorded. Bruce writes, \"only that De Paiva, attempting his journey this way, lost his life, and was never more heard of.\"\"\n"}
{"id": "398781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=398781", "title": "Aistulf", "text": "Aistulf\n\nAistulf (died 756) was the Duke of Friuli from 744, King of Lombards from 749, and Duke of Spoleto from 751. His father was the Duke Pemmo.\n\nAfter his brother Ratchis became king, Aistulf succeeded him in Friuli. He succeeded him later as king when Ratchis abdicated to a monastery. Aistulf continued the policy of expansion and raids against the papacy and the Eastern Roman exarchate of Ravenna. In 751, he captured Ravenna itself and even threatened Rome, claiming a capitation tax. He also conquered the Istria region from Eastern Roman occupation in the same year.\n\nThe popes, thoroughly irritated and alarmed, and despairing of aid from the Roman Emperor, turned to the Carolingian mayors of the palace of Austrasia, the effective rulers of the Frankish kingdom. In 741, Pope Gregory III asked Charles Martel to intervene, but he was too busy elsewhere and declined. In 753, Pope Stephen II visited Charles Martel's son Pepin the Short, who had been proclaimed king of the Franks in 751 with the consent of Pope Zachary. In gratitude for the papal consent to his coronation, Pepin crossed the Alps, defeated Aistulf, and gave to the pope the lands which Aistulf had torn from the \"ducatus Romanus\" and the exarchate (Emilia-Romagna and the Pentapolis).\n\nAistulf died hunting in 756. He was succeeded by Desiderius as king of the Lombards and by Alboin as duke of Spoleto. He had given Friuli to his brother-in-law Anselm, abbot of Nonantula, whose sister Gisaltruda he had married, when he succeeded to the kingship in 749.\n\n"}
{"id": "100329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100329", "title": "Amrita", "text": "Amrita\n\nAmrita (, IAST: \"amṛta\"), Amrit or Amata (also called Sudha, Amiy, Ami) is a word that literally means \"immortality\" and is often referred to in texts as nectar. \"Amṛta\" is etymologically related to the Greek \"ambrosia\" and carries the same meaning. Its first occurrence is in the Rigveda, where it is considered one of several synonyms for \"soma\", the drink of the devas.\n\nAmrit has varying significance in different Indian religions. The word \"Amrit\" is also a common first name for Sikhs and North Indian Hindus, while its feminine form is \"Amritā\". The traditional masculine name is \"Amritha\" with the feminine name being \"Amrithi\".\n\nThe amṛta is repeatedly referred to as the drink of the devas, which grants them immortality. Despite this, the nectar does not actually offer true immortality: instead, by partaking it, the devas were able to attain a higher level of knowledge and power, which they had lost due to the curse of Sage Durvasa.\n\nThe amṛta features in the samudra manthana legend, which describes how the devas, because of a curse from the sage Durvasa, begin to lose their immortality. Assisted by their rivals, the asuras, the devas begin to churn the ocean, releasing (among other extraordinary objects and beings) the amṛta.\n\nAmṛta is sometimes said to miraculously form on, or flow from, statues of Hindu gods. The substance is consumed by worshippers and is alleged to be sweet-tasting and not at all similar to honey or sugar water.\n\nAmṛta was the last of the fourteen treasures that emerged from the churning of the ocean and contained in a pot borne by Dhanvantari, the physician of the devas.\n\nAmrit () is the name of the holy water used in the baptism ceremony or Amrit Sanchar in Sikhism. This ceremony is observed to initiate the Sikhs into the Khalsa and requires drinking amrit. This is created by mixing a number of soluble ingredients, including sugar, and is then rolled with a khanda with the accompaniment of scriptural recitation of five sacred verses.\n\nMetaphorically, God's name is also referred to as a nectar:\n<poem>ਅੰਮ੍ਰਿਤ ਸਬਦੁ ਅੰਮ੍ਰਿਤ ਹਰਿ ਬਾਣੀ ॥ \nअम्रित सबदु अम्रित हरि बाणी ॥ \nAmrit sabad amrit har baṇi.\nThe Shabda is Amrit; the Lord's \"bani\" is Amrit. \nਸਤਿਗੁਰਿ ਸੇਵਿਐ ਰਿਦੈ ਸਮਾਣੀ ॥ \nसतिगुरि सेविऐ रिदै समाणी ॥ \nSatgur seviai ridai samāṇi.\nServing the True Guru, it permeates the heart. \nਨਾਨਕ ਅੰਮ੍ਰਿਤ ਨਾਮੁ ਸਦਾ ਸੁਖਦਾਤਾ ਪੀ ਅੰਮ੍ਰਿਤੁ ਸਭ ਭੁਖ ਲਹਿ ਜਾਵਣਿਆ\nNānak amrit nām sadā sukhdāta pi amrit sabh bhukh lėh jāvaṇia.\nO Nanak, the Ambrosial Naam is forever the Giver of peace; drinking in this Amrit, all hunger is satisfied.</poem>\n\nAccording to Thanissaro Bhikkhu, \"the deathless\" refers to the deathless dimension of the mind which is dwelled in permanently after nibbana.\n\nIn the Amata Sutta, the Buddha advises monks to stay with the four Satipatthana: \"Monks, remain with your minds well-established in these four establishings of mindfulness. Don't let the deathless be lost to you.\"\n\nIn the questions for Nagasena, King Milinda asks for evidence that the Buddha once lived, wherein Nagasena describes evidence of the Dhamma in a simile:\n\nAmritha () also plays a significant role in Vajrayana Buddhism as a sacramental drink which is consumed at the beginning of all important rituals such as the abhisheka, ganachakra, and homa. In the Tibetan tradition, \"dütsi\" is made during drubchens - lengthy ceremonies involving many high lamas. It usually takes the form of small, dark-brown grains that are taken with water, or dissolved in very weak solutions of alcohol and is said to improve physical and spiritual well-being.\n\nThe foundational text of traditional Tibetan medicine, the Four Tantras, is also known by the name \"The Heart of Amrita\" ().\n\n\"The Immaculate Crystal Garland\" () describes the origin of amrita in a version of the samudra manthana legend retold in Buddhist terms. In this Vajrayana version, the monster Rahu steals the amrita and is blasted by Vajrapani's thunderbolt. As Rahu has already drunk the amrita he cannot die, but his blood, dripping onto the surface of this earth, causes all kinds of medicinal plants to grow. At the behest of all the Buddhas, Vajrapani reassembles Rahu who eventually becomes a protector of Buddhism according to the Nyingma school of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\n\"Inner Offering\" (, ) is the most symbolic Amrita offering assembly, and the \"Inner Offering Nectar Pill\" (, ) is a precious and secret medicine of Tibetan Buddhism, which are only used internally for higher ranking monks in Nyingma school. Its ingredients including Five Amrita and Five Meat, which represents five buddha, and five elements respectively. According to \"Tantras of Chakravarti\", and \"Tantras of Vajravārāhī\", a ceremony needs to be hold for melting and blessing the Inner Offering Nectar. Five Nectar needs to be arranged in four directions: yellow excrement in the east, green bone marrow in the north, white semen in the west and red blood in the south, blue urine is placed in the center. Four Nectar should come from wise monks and the ova should be collected from the first menstruation of a blessed woman. The Five Meats are arranged similiarly, meat of black bull in the southeast, the meat of the blue dog in the southwest, the meast of the white elephant in the northwest, the meat of the green horse in the northeast, and the meat of a red human corpse in the center. After the ceremony, these ingredients will transform into an \"one taste\" (\"ekarasa\") elixir, which bestows bliss, vitality, immortality and wisdom. Actual practitioner will take a 'synthesized essence' of the Nectar Pill and combined it with black tea or alcohol, but mostly the \"Nectar Pill\" are derived from plants.\n\nChinese Buddhism describes Amrita () as blessed water, food, or other consumable objects often produced through merits of chanting mantras.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "631308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=631308", "title": "Animal euthanasia", "text": "Animal euthanasia\n\nAnimal euthanasia (euthanasia from ; \"good death\") is the act of putting an animal to death or allowing it to die by withholding extreme medical measures. Reasons for euthanasia include incurable (and especially painful) conditions or diseases, lack of resources to continue supporting the animal, or laboratory test procedures. Euthanasia methods are designed to cause minimal pain and distress. Euthanasia is distinct from animal slaughter and pest control although in some cases the procedure is the same.\n\nIn domesticated animals, this process is commonly referred to by euphemisms such as \"put down\" or \"put to sleep\".\n\nThe methods of euthanasia can be divided into pharmacological and physical methods. Acceptable pharmacological methods include injected drugs and gases that first depress the central nervous system and then cardiovascular activity. Acceptable physical methods must first cause rapid loss of consciousness by disrupting the central nervous system. The most common methods are discussed here, but there are other acceptable methods used in different situations.\n\nUnconsciousness, respiratory then cardiac arrest follow rapidly, usually within 30 seconds. Observers generally describe the method as leading to a quick and peaceful death.\n\nSome veterinarians perform a two-stage process: an initial injection that simply renders the pet unconscious and a second shot that causes death. This allows the owner the chance to say goodbye to a live pet without their emotions stressing the pet. It also greatly mitigates any tendency toward spasm and other involuntary movement which tends to increase the emotional upset that the pet's owner experiences.\n\nFor large animals, the volumes of barbiturates required are considered by some to be impractical, although this is standard practice in the United States. For horses and cattle, other drugs may be available. Some specially formulated combination products are available, such as Somulose (secobarbital/cinchocaine) and Tributame (embutramide/chloroquine/lidocaine), which cause deep unconsciousness and cardiac arrest independently with a lower volume of injection, thus making the process faster, safer, and more effective.\n\nOccasionally, a horse injected with these mixtures may display apparent seizure activity before death. This may be due to premature cardiac arrest. However, if normal precautions (e.g., sedation with detomidine) are taken, this is rarely a problem. Anecdotal reports that long-term use of phenylbutazone increases the risk of this reaction are unverified.\n\nAfter the animal has died, it is not uncommon for the body to have posthumous body jerks, or for the animal to have a sudden bladder outburst.\n\nGas anesthetics such as isoflurane and sevoflurane can be used for euthanasia of very small animals. The animals are placed in sealed chambers where high levels of anesthetic gas are introduced. Death may also be caused using carbon dioxide once unconsciousness has been achieved by inhaled anaesthetic. Carbon dioxide is often used on its own for euthanasia of wild animals. There are mixed opinions on whether it causes distress when used on its own, with human experiments lending support to the evidence that it can cause distress and equivocal results in non-humans. In 2013, the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) issued new guidelines for carbon dioxide induction, stating that a flow rate of 10% to 30% volume/min is optimal for the humane euthanization of small rodents.\n\nCarbon monoxide is often used, but some states in the US have banned its use in animal shelters: although carbon monoxide poisoning is not particularly painful, the conditions in the gas chamber are often not humane. Nitrogen has been shown to be effective, although some young animals are rather resistant and it currently is not widely used.\n\nCervical dislocation, or displacement (breaking or fracturing) of the neck, is an older yet less common method of killing small animals such as mice. Performed properly it is intended to cause as painless death as possible and has no cost or equipment involved. The handler must know the proper method of executing the movement which will cause the cervical displacement and without proper training and method education there is a risk of not causing death and can cause severe pain and suffering. It is unknown how long an animal remains conscious, or the level of suffering it goes through after a correct snapping of the neck, which is why it has become less common and often substituted with inhalants.\n\nWhen intravenous injection is not possible, euthanasia drugs such as pentobarbital can be injected directly into a heart chamber or body cavity.\n\nWhile intraperitoneal injection is fully acceptable (although it may take up to 15 minutes to take effect in dogs and cats), an intracardiac (IC) injection may only be performed on an unconscious or deeply sedated animal. Performing IC injections on a fully conscious animal in places with humane laws for animal handling is often a criminal offense.\n\nThis can be a means of euthanasia for large animals—such as horses, cattle, and deer—if performed properly. This may be performed by means of:\n\n\n\nThe reasons for euthanasia of pets and other animals include:\n\n\nSmall animal euthanasia is typically performed in a veterinary clinic or hospital or in an animal shelter and is usually carried out by a veterinarian or a veterinary technician working under the veterinarian's supervision. Often animal shelter workers are trained to perform euthanasia as well. Some veterinarians will perform euthanasia at the pet owner's home—this is virtually mandatory in the case of large animal euthanasia. In the case of large animals which have sustained injuries, this will also occur at the site of the accident, for example, on a racecourse.\n\nSome animal rights organizations support animal euthanasia in certain circumstances and practice euthanasia at shelters that they operate.\n\nIn the U.S., for companion animals euthanized in animal shelters, 14 states prescribe intravenous injection as the required method. These laws date to 1990, when Georgia's \"Humane Euthanasia Act\" became the first state law to mandate this method. Before that, gas chambers and other means were commonly employed. The Georgia law was resisted by the Georgia Commissioner of Agriculture, Tommy Irvin, who was charged with enforcing the act. In March 2007, he was sued by former State Representative Chesley V. Morton, who wrote the law, and subsequently ordered by the Court to enforce all provisions of the Act.\n\nMany pet owners choose to have their pets cremated or buried after the pet is euthanized, and there are pet funeral homes that specialize in animal burial or cremation. Otherwise, the animal facility will often freeze the body and subsequently send it to the local landfill.\n\nIn some instances, animals euthanized at shelters or animal control agencies have been sent to meat rendering facilities to be processed for use in cosmetics, fertilizer, gelatin, poultry feed, pharmaceuticals and pet food. It was proposed that the presence of pentobarbital in dog food may have caused dogs to become less responsive to the drug when being euthanized. However, a 2002 FDA study found no dog or cat DNA in the foods they tested, so it was theorized that the drug found in dog food came from euthanized cattle and horses. Furthermore, the level of the drug found in pet food was safe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30874105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30874105", "title": "Ashwatthama", "text": "Ashwatthama\n\nAshwatthama (Sanskrit: अश्वत्थामा, \"Aśvatthāmā\") or Ashwatthaman (Sanskrit: अश्वत्थामन्, \"Aśvatthāman\") or Drauni is the son of guru Drona and the grandson of the sage Bharadwaja. Ashvatthama is a mighty Maharathi who fought on the Kaurava side against the Pandavas in the Kurukshetra War. Ashvatthama is considered as avatar of one of the eleven Rudras and one of the seven Chiranjivi. Along with his maternal uncle Kripa, Ashvatthama is believed to be a living survivor of the Kurukshetra War. The deceptive plot of his rumoured 'death' led to the beheading of his grieving father Drona, who was incapacitated while meditating for his son's Ātman. Ashwatthama was appointed as the final commander-in-chief of the Kauravas in the Kurukshetra War. Ashwatthama, overcome with grief and rage, manifests his latent powers as a Rudras. He slaughters most of the Pandava camp in a single night offensive. When Arjuna defeated Drupada of Panchala, Drona declared Ashwatthama to be the new king of Panchala. \n\nAccording to \"The Mahabharata\", Ashwatthama means \"the horse-voiced\". It is so called because when he was born he cried like a horse.\n\nAshwatthama was the son of Dronacharya and Kripi. Drona did many years of severe penance to please Lord Shiva in order to obtain a son who possesses the same valiance as Lord Shiva. Born a Chiranjivi, Ashwatthama was born with a gem in his forehead which gives him power over all living beings lower than humans; it protected him from hunger, thirst, and fatigue. Though an expert in warfare, Dronacharya lived the simple life of a Brahmin, with little money or property. As a result, Ashwatthama had a difficult childhood, with his family unable to even afford milk. Wanting to provide a better life for his family, Drona goes to the Panchal Kingdom to seek aid from his former classmate and friend, King Drupada. However, Drupada rebukes the friendship, claiming a king and a beggar cannot be friends, humiliating Drona.\n\nAfter this incident, and seeing the plight of Drona, Kripacharya, invited Drona to Hastinapur. There, he came upon the attention of his co-disciple Bhishma. Thus, Dronacharya became the guru of the Pandavas and of the Kauravas in Hastinapur. Ashwatthama was trained in the art of warfare along with them.\n\nAshwatthama is a notable figure in the war and engages in many battles, though not scoring any significant kills until after his father's death.\n\nOn the 14th day of the war , he killed an Akshuhani of Rakshasa and when Anjanaparvan created illusions he penetrated it by Vajra and Vayavya Astra. He also killed Anjanaparvan and defeated Ghatotkacha several times by achieving feats of deflecting their celestial weapons at themselves. He also stood against Arjuna several times on equal footing but was eventually defeated by the latter.\n\nOn the 10th day of the war, after Bhishma falls, and Drona is named the supreme commander of the armies. He promises Duryodhana that he will capture Yudhishthira, but then he repeatedly fails to do so. Duryodhana taunts and insults him, which greatly angers Ashwatthama, causing friction between Ashwatthama and Duryodhana. Krishna knew that it was not possible to defeat an armed Drona. So, Krishna suggested to Yudhishthira and the other Pandavas, if Drona were convinced that his son was killed on the battlefield, then his grief would leave him vulnerable to attack.\n\nKrishna hatched a plan for Bhima to kill an elephant by the name Ashwatthama while claiming to Drona it was Drona's son who was dead. Ultimately, the gambit works (though the details of it vary depending on the version of the Mahabharata), and Dhristadyumna beheads the grieving sage.\n\nWhen the weapon called Narayana was invoked, violent winds began to blow, peals of thunder were heard. Then thousands of weapons with blazing mouths appeared, that continued to agitate the Pandavas. Slaughtered by the Narayana weapon, Pandavas inspired with great fright while kings started to flee away. But Kesava while stopping troops said, 'Come down on the earth, all of you from your elephants and steeds and cars and stand weaponless on the earth.' As himself being the part of Narayana he knew about the weapon, as the weapon only targets an armed person while ignores unarmed ones. But Bhima resist, saying warriors never abandons their weapons, and no man is equal to him in prowess possessing the might of the thousand elephants, who can even pull a mountain he will oppose the weapon. Then he rushed against Drona's son. After all had thrown their weapons and alighted from their vehicles, that weapon of exceeding energy fell upon the head of Bhima. Arjuna and Vasudeva manages to cover him with the Varuna weapon, and the weapon is rendered ineffective. After that weapon had been baffled, Duryodhana said to Aswatthaman, once more use that weapon speedily, desirous of victory. Then addressed by Duryodhana, Aswatthaman, replied, 'That weapon, O king, cannot be brought back. It cannot be used twice. If brought back, it will, without doubt, slay the person calling it back.' \n\nAccording to the Chaturdhar compilation, the Narayana Astra destroyed one Akshauhini of Pandava army completely. After the use of Narayana Astra, a terrible war between both armies took place. Ashwatthama defeated Dhrishtadyumna in direct combat, but failed to kill him as Satyaki and Bhima covered his retreat. Terrible war took place between the warriors of both sides as Ashwatthama forced both Satyaki and Bhima to withdraw. In his fury, Ashwatthama manages to kill King Nila of Mahismati.\n\nAfter the death of Dushasana, Ashwatthama still suggested Duryodhana that he make peace with the Pandavas, keeping in mind the welfare of Hastinapur but he refused. Later, after Duryodhana is struck down by Bhima and facing death, the last three survivors from the Kaurava side, Ashwatthama, Kripa and Kritvarma rush to his side. Ashwatthama swears to bring Duryodhana revenge, and Duryodhana appoints him as the commander-in-chief.\n\nHearing of Duryodhana's fall, he went to meet him and promised him to despatch all the Panchalas, to the abode of Yama. Along with Kripa and Kritavarman he planned to attack the Pandavas camp at night.\n\nAshwatthama first kicked and woke up Dhrishtadyumna, the commander of the Pandava army and the killer of his father Drona. Ashwatthama strangled the half-awake Dhrishtadyumna by choking him to death as the Panchal prince begged to be allowed to die with a sword in his hand. Ashwatthama proceeds with slaughtering the remaining warriors cutting their limbs off and tearing them in two via his sword, including Shikhandi, Yudhamanyu, Uttamaujas, and many other prominent warriors of the Pandava army, he remained unharmed via all of their combined attack. Those who tried to flee from Ashwatthama's wrath were hacked down by Kripacharya and Kritavarma at the camp's entrance and those who remained were slaughtered by berserker.\n\nAfter the slaughter, the three warriors go to find Duryodhana. They find Duryodhana already dead and, mourning, they perform the cremation rites.\n\nThe Pandavas and Krishna who were away during night, now returned to their camp the next day morning. Hearing the news of these events in the morning Yudhishthira fainted and the Pandavas become inconsolable. Bhima angrily on hearing this rushed for killing Drona son. The Pandavas, along with Krishna, went to save Bhima. They found him to sage Vyasa's ashram near the bank of Bhagiratha.\n\nOut of rage, Ashwatthama instead directed the weapon towards the womb of the pregnant Uttara in an attempt to end the lineage of the Pandavas. The angered Pandavas wanted to kill Ashwatthama, but Sage Vyasa reminded them of the deceitful tactics they had used against the Kauravas.\n\nAs a punishment, Ashwatthama was asked by Vyasa to surrender the gem on his forehead to Pandavas for his forgiveness. Krishna then cursed Ashwatthama that he will roam in the forests with blood and puss oozing out of his injuries and cry for death. Since he had no fear of death during war, death would not meet him. He will have neither any hospitality nor any accommodation; he will be in total isolation without any contact of physical communication from mankind and society. The wound caused by the removal of this gem on his forehead will not heal and his body will suffer from a host of incurable diseases forming sores and ulcers that would never heal.\n\n"}
{"id": "74941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74941", "title": "Body cavity", "text": "Body cavity\n\nA body cavity is any fluid-filled space in a multicellular organism other than those of \"vessels\" (such as blood vessels and lymph vessels). The human body cavity normally refers to the ventral body cavity, because it is by far the largest.\n\nA coelom is a cavity lined by mesothelium, an epithelium derived from mesoderm. Organs formed inside a coelom can freely move, grow, and develop independently of the body wall while fluid cushions and protects them from shocks.\n\nArthropods and most molluscs have a reduced (but still true) coelom, usually the pericardial cavity and the gonocoel. Their principal body cavity is the \"hemocoel\" or \"haeomocoel\" of an open circulatory system, often derived from the blastocoel.\n\nMammalian embryos develop two cavities: the intraembryonic coelom and the extraembryonic coelom (or chorionic cavity). The intraembryonic coelom is lined by somatic and splanchnic lateral plate mesoderm, while the extraembryonic coelom is lined by extraembryonic mesoderm. The intraembryonic coelom is the only cavity that persists in the mammal at term, which is why its name is often contracted to simply \"coelomic cavity\". Subdividing the coelomic cavity into compartments, for example, the pericardial cavity / pericardium, where the heart develops, simplifies discussion of the anatomies of complex animals.\n\nOrganisms can be also classified according to the type of body cavity they possess.\n\nAnatomical structures are often described in terms of the cavity in which they reside. The body maintains its internal organization by means of membranes, sheaths, and other structures that separate compartments. The dorsal (posterior) cavity and the ventral (anterior) cavity are the largest body compartments. These cavities contain and protect delicate internal organs, and the ventral cavity allows for significant changes in the size and shape of the organs as they perform their functions. The lungs, heart, stomach, and intestines, for example, can expand and contract without distorting other tissues or disrupting the activity of nearby organs.\n\nThe ventral cavity includes the thoracic and abdominopelvic cavities and their subdivisions. The dorsal cavity includes the cranial and spinal cavities.\nTogether the cranial cavity and vertebral cavity can be referred to as the dorsal body cavity.\nIn the posterior (dorsal) cavity, the cranial cavity houses the brain, and the spinal cavity (or vertebral cavity) encloses the spinal cord. Just as the brain and spinal cord make up a continuous, uninterrupted structure, the cranial and spinal cavities that house them are also continuous. The brain and spinal cord are protected by the bones of the skull and vertebral column and by cerebrospinal fluid, a colorless fluid produced by the brain, which cushions the brain and spinal cord within the posterior (dorsal) cavity.\n\nThe thoracic cavity consists of three cavities that fill the interior area of the chest.\nThe diaphragm divides the thoracic and the abdominal cavities. The abdominal cavity occupies the entire lower half of the trunk, anterior to the spine. Just under the abdominal cavity, anterior to the buttocks, is the pelvic cavity. The pelvic cavity is funnel shaped and is located inferior and anterior to the abdominal cavity. Together the abdominal and pelvic cavity can be referred to as the abdominopelvic cavity while the thoracic, abdominal, and pelvic cavities together can be referred to as the ventral body cavity.\nSubdivisions of the Posterior (Dorsal) and Anterior (Ventral) Cavities\nThe anterior (ventral) cavity has two main subdivisions: the thoracic cavity and the abdominopelvic cavity. The thoracic cavity is the more superior subdivision of the anterior cavity, and it is enclosed by the rib cage. The thoracic cavity contains the lungs and the heart, which is located in the mediastinum. The diaphragm forms the floor of the thoracic cavity and separates it from the more inferior abdominopelvic cavity. The abdominopelvic cavity is the largest cavity in the body. Although no membrane physically divides the abdominopelvic cavity, it can be useful to distinguish between the abdominal cavity, the division that houses the digestive organs, and the pelvic cavity, the division that houses the organs of reproduction.\n\nThe cavities include:\n\nAt the end of the third week, the neural tube, which is a fold of one of the layers of the trilaminar germ disc, called the ectoderm, appears. This layer elevates and closes dorsally, while the gut tube rolls up and closes ventrally to create a “tube on top of a tube.” The mesoderm, which is another layer of the trilaminar germ disc, holds the tubes together and the lateral plate mesoderm, the middle layer of the germ disc, splits to form a visceral layer associated with the gut and a parietal layer, which along with the overlying ectoderm, forms the lateral body wall. The space between the visceral and parietal layers of lateral plate mesoderm is the primitive body cavity. When the lateral body wall folds, it moves ventrally and fuses at the midline. The body cavity closes, except in the region of the connecting stalk. Here, the gut tube maintains an attachment to the yolk sac. The yolk sac is a membranous sac attached to the embryo, which provides nutrients and functions as the circulatory system of the very early embryo.\n\nThe lateral body wall folds, pulling the amnion in with it so that the amnion surrounds the embryo and extends over the connecting stalk, which becomes the umbilical cord, which connects the fetus with the placenta. If the ventral body wall fails to close, ventral body wall defects can result, such as ectopia cordis, a congenital malformation in which the heart is abnormally located outside the thorax. Another defect is gastroschisis, a congenital defect in the anterior abdominal wall through which the abdominal contents freely protrude. Another possibility is bladder exstrophy, in which part of the urinary bladder is present outside the body. In normal circumstances, the parietal mesoderm will form the parietal layer of serous membranes lining the outside (walls) of the peritoneal, pleural, and pericardial cavities. The visceral layer will form the visceral layer of the serous membranes covering the lungs, heart, and abdominal organs. These layers are continuous at the root of each organ as the organs lie in their respective cavities. The peritoneum, a serum membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity, forms in the gut layers and in places mesenteries extend from the gut as double layers of peritoneum. Mesenteries provide a pathway for vessels, nerves, and lymphatics to the organs. Initially, the gut tube from the caudal end of the foregut to the end of the hindgut is suspended from the dorsal body wall by dorsal mesentery. Ventral mesentery, derived from the septum transversum, exists only in the region of the terminal part of the esophagus, the stomach, and the upper portion of the duodenum.\n\n\"This Wikipedia entry incorporates text from the freely licensed Connexions edition of Anatomy & Physiology text-book by OpenStax College\"\n"}
{"id": "2105550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2105550", "title": "Bradymetabolism", "text": "Bradymetabolism\n\nBradymetabolism refers to organisms with a high active metabolism and a considerably slower resting metabolism. Bradymetabolic animals can often undergo dramatic changes in metabolic speed, according to food availability and temperature. Many bradymetabolic creatures in deserts and in areas that experience extreme winters are capable of \"shutting down\" their metabolisms to approach near-death states, until favorable conditions return\n(see hibernation and estivation).\n\nSeveral variants of bradymetabolism exists. In mammals, the animals normally have a fairly high metabolism, only dropping to low levels in times of little food. In most reptiles, the normal metabolic rate is quite low, but can be raised when needed, typically in short bursts of activity in connection with capturing prey.\n\nThe term is from Greek \"brady\" (βραδύ) \"slow\" and \"metaballein\" (μεταβάλλειν) \"turn quickly.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "53736800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53736800", "title": "Broughton (MCC cricketer)", "text": "Broughton (MCC cricketer)\n\nBroughton (first name, dates and places of birth and death unknown) was an English first-class cricketer active 1798–1803 who played for Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC).\n"}
{"id": "57551456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57551456", "title": "Cartesian genetic programming", "text": "Cartesian genetic programming\n\nCartesian genetic programming is a form of genetic programming, which uses a graph representation to encode computer programs. It grew from a method of evolving digital circuits developed by Miller et al. in 1997. However the term ‘Cartesian genetic programming’ first appeared in 1999 and was proposed as a general form of genetic programming in 2000. It is called ‘Cartesian’ because it represents a program using a two-dimensional grid of nodes. \n\nJulian F. Miller (the inventor of CGP) has a web site which explains how CGP works. You can download many publications about CGP from this site. He also edited a book titled 'Cartesian Genetic Programming', published in 2011 by Springer.\n"}
{"id": "1708398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1708398", "title": "Cryptobiosis", "text": "Cryptobiosis\n\nCryptobiosis is a metabolic state of life entered by an organism in response to adverse environmental conditions such as desiccation, freezing, and oxygen deficiency. In the cryptobiotic state, all measurable metabolic processes stop, preventing reproduction, development, and repair. When environmental conditions return to being hospitable, the organism will return to its metabolic state of life as it was prior to the cryptobiosis.\n\nAnhydrobiosis is the most studied form of cryptobiosis and occurs in situations of extreme desiccation. The term \"anhydrobiosis\" derives from the Greek for \"life without water\" and is most commonly used for the desiccation tolerance observed in certain invertebrate animals such as bdelloid rotifers, tardigrades, brine shrimp, nematodes, and at least one insect, a species of chironomid (\"Polypedilum vanderplanki\"). However, other life forms, including the resurrection plant \"Craterostigma plantagineum\", the majority of plant seeds, and many microorganisms such as bakers' yeast, also exhibit desiccation tolerance. Studies have shown that some anhydrobiotic organisms can survive for decades, even centuries, in the dry state.\n\nInvertebrates undergoing anhydrobiosis often contract into a smaller shape and some proceed to form a sugar called trehalose. Desiccation tolerance in plants is associated with the production of another sugar, sucrose. These sugars are thought to protect the organism from desiccation damage. In some creatures, such as bdelloid rotifers, no trehalose has been found, which has led scientists to propose other mechanisms of anhydrobiosis, possibly involving intrinsically disordered proteins.\n\nIn 2011, \"Caenorhabditis elegans\", a nematode that is also one of the best-studied model organisms, was shown to undergo anhydrobiosis in the dauer larva stage. Further research taking advantage of genetic and biochemical tools available for this organism revealed that in addition to trehalose biosynthesis, a set of other functional pathways is involved in anhydrobiosis at the molecular level. These are mainly defense mechanisms against reactive oxygen species and xenobiotics, expression of heat shock proteins and intrinsically disordered proteins as well as biosynthesis of polyunsaturated fatty acids and polyamines. Some of them are conserved among anhydrobiotic plants and animals, suggesting that anhydrobiotic ability may depend on a set of common mechanisms. Understanding these mechanisms in detail might enable modification of non-anhydrobiotic cells, tissues, organs or even organisms so that they can be preserved in a dried state of suspended animation over long time periods.\n\nAs of 2004, such an application of anhydrobiosis is being applied to vaccines. In vaccines, the process can produce a dry vaccine that reactivates once it is injected into the body. In theory, dry-vaccine technology could be used on any vaccine, including live vaccines such as the one for measles. It could also potentially be adapted to allow a vaccine's slow release, eliminating the need for boosters. This proposes to eliminate the need for refrigerating vaccines, thus making dry vaccines more widely available throughout the developing world where refrigeration, electricity, and proper storage are less accessible.\n\nBased on similar principles, lyopreservation has been developed as a technique for preservation of biological samples at ambient temperatures.\n\nIn situations lacking oxygen (a.k.a., anoxia), many cryptobionts (such as \"M. tardigradum\") take in water and become turgid and immobile, but can still survive for prolonged periods of time just as with other cryptobiological processes. While survival rate studies of organisms during supposed anoxybiosis in anoxia have historically given some conflicting results, the current consensus is that certain ectothermic vertebrates and some invertebrates (for example, brine shrimp (Clegg et al. 1999), copepods (Marcus et al., 1994), nematodes (Crowe and Cooper, 1971), and sponge gemmules (Reiswig and Miller, 1998)) are capable of successfully surviving in a seemingly inactive state during anoxic conditions for periods of time ranging from months to decades. Studies of the metabolic activity of these idling organisms during anoxia have been mostly inconclusive, primarily due to the technical difficulty of measuring very small degrees of metabolic activity with enough reliability to conclusively prove a cryptobiotic state is occurring rather than just an extreme case of the metabolic rate depression (MRD) phenomenon exhibited by all aerobic organisms to some degree (typically 1-10% of aerobic levels) when exposed to anoxia. Thus, anoxybiosis is not considered a legitimate form of naturally occurring cryptobiosis by some comparative biologists because of these inconclusive and conflicting experimental results regarding whether a truly complete metabolic standstill actually occurs in cryptobionts during anoxic conditions, or if the metabolism is merely such a tiny fraction of the aerobic metabolic rate that it falls below the limits of detection. Also, many experts are skeptical of the biological feasibility of anoxybiosis, because any preservation of biological structures during anoxic conditions would imply that a seemingly impossible situation is occurring, wherein the organism is managing to prevent damage to its cellular structures from the environmental negative free energy despite being both surrounded by plenty of water and thermal energy and, most remarkably, it does so without using any free energy of its own. However (as summarized by Professor James Clegg of the UC Davis Bodega Marine laboratory in a 2001 review article), while many studies have failed to find measurable quantities of metabolic activity in potential anoxybiotic organisms, and there is also some evidence that the stress-induced protein p26 may act as a protein chaperone that requires no energy in cystic \"Artemia franciscana\" embryos, more recent data suggest that most likely an extremely specialized and slow guanine polynucleotide pathway continues to provide metabolic free energy to the \"Artemia franciscana\" embryos during anoxic conditions. Although it is inherently difficult to prove that not a single organism in existence anywhere is capable of entering a truly anoxybiotic state, it seems to clearly be the case that most likely at least \"A. franciscana\" (a.k.a. sea monkeys, a well-known and commonly studied cryptobiont) is only capable of approaching, but not reaching, the above-mentioned implied violation of the usual biological conversion of environmental negative free energy into the negative entropy of cellular structures via metabolic processes.\n\nChemobiosis is the cryptobiotic response to high levels of environmental toxins. It has been observed in tardigrades.\n\nCryobiosis is a form of cryptobiosis that takes place in reaction to decreased temperature. Cryobiosis initiates when the water surrounding the organism's cells has been frozen, stopping molecule mobility allows the organism to endure the freezing temperatures until more hospitable conditions return. Organisms capable of enduring these conditions typically feature molecules that facilitate freezing of water in preferential locations while also prohibiting the growth of large ice crystals that could otherwise damage cells. One such organism is the lobster.\n\nOsmobiosis is the least studied of all types of cryptobiosis. Osmobiosis occurs in response to increased solute concentration in the solution the organism lives in. Little is known for certain, other than that osmobiosis appears to involve a cessation of metabolism.\n\nA commonly known organism that undergoes cryptobiosis is \"Artemia salina\", also known as the brine shrimp or by its brand name, Sea-Monkeys. This species, which can be found in the Makgadikgadi Pans in Botswana, survives over the dry season when the water of the pans evaporates, leaving a virtually desiccated lake bed.\n\nThe tardigrade, or water bear, is a widely studied and notable example, partially because it can undergo all five types of cryptobiosis. While in a cryptobiotic state, the tardigrade's metabolism reduces to less than 0.01% of what is normal, and its water content can drop to 1% of normal. It can withstand extreme temperature, radiation, and pressure while in a cryptobiotic state.\n\nSome nematodes and rotifers can also undergo cryptobiosis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47784311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47784311", "title": "Dawn of Humanity", "text": "Dawn of Humanity\n\nDawn of Humanity is a 2015 American documentary film that was released online on September 10, 2015, and aired nationwide in the United States on September 16, 2015. The PBS NOVA National Geographic film, in one episode of two hours, was directed and produced by Graham Townsley. The film describes the 2013 discovery, and later excavation, of the fossil remains of \"Homo naledi\", an extinct species of hominin assigned to the genus \"Homo\", found within the Dinaledi Chamber of the Rising Star Cave system, located in the Cradle of Humankind, South Africa. Additionally, the National Geographic Society has multiple videos on its website covering different phases of the discovery and excavation of the fossils during a two-year period. , fossils of at least fifteen individuals, amounting to 1550 specimens, have been excavated from the cave.\n\nThe documentary film is narrated by Jay O. Sanders and includes the following participants (alphabetized by last name):\n\nNeil Genzlinger of \"The New York Times\" noted, \"Documentaries about prehistory and paleoanthropology are usually interesting, sometimes even thought-provoking. But you don’t often encounter one that’s thrilling. Yet that is a fitting adjective for \"Dawn of Humanity\", a program... that brings an aura of breaking news to a field that can often seem musty.\" Brooke Cain of the \"Charlotte Observer\" reports that the documentary features \"exclusive footage of the hair-raising descent deep into a nearly inaccessible cave to retrieve more than 1,500 hominid fossils.\"\n\nAccording to archaeologist K. Kris Hirst, \"Dawn of Humanity\" provides \"a rich context for the discovery [of the fossils of \"Homo naledi\"], setting the historical and evolutionary background so that viewers can understand the significance of the discovery... [Lee] Berger's charming personality and the hordes of other paleontologists in this video make this contextual effort easily and visually accessible to the public.\" In addition, according to Hirst, the behavior of apes in the \"Dawn of Man\" sequence of Stanley Kubrick film \"\", largely influenced by the notions of Raymond Dart and Robert Ardrey, has been proven false since such violent apes have now been shown to be vegetarians instead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "219367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219367", "title": "Drowning", "text": "Drowning\n\nDrowning is defined as respiratory impairment as a result of being in or under a liquid. Drowning typically occurs silently, with only a few people able to wave their hands or call for help. Symptoms following rescue may include breathing problems, vomiting, confusion, or unconsciousness. Occasionally symptoms may not appear until up to six hours afterwards. Drowning may be complicated by low body temperature, aspiration of vomit, or acute respiratory distress syndrome.\nDrowning is more common when the weather is warm and among those with frequent access to water. Risk factors include alcohol use, epilepsy, and low socioeconomic status. Common locations of drowning include swimming pools, bathtubs, natural bodies of water, and buckets. Initially the person holds their breath, which is followed by laryngospasm, and then low oxygen levels. Significant amounts of water typically only enter the lungs later in the process. It may be classified by outcome into death, ongoing health problems, and no ongoing health problems.\nEfforts to prevent drowning include teaching children to swim, safe boating practices, and limiting or removing access to water such as by fencing pools. Treatment of those whose who are not breathing should begin with opening the airway and providing five breaths. In those whose heart is not beating and who have been underwater for less than an hour CPR is recommended. Survival rates are better among those with a shorter time under the water. Among children who survive poor outcomes occur in about 7.5% of cases.\nIn 2015, there were an estimated 4.5 million cases of unintentional drowning. That year it resulted in 324,000 deaths making it the third leading cause of death from unintentional injuries after falls and motor vehicle collisions. Of these deaths, 56,000 occurred in children less than five years old. It accounts for 7% of all injury related deaths, with more than 90% of these deaths occurring in developing countries. Drowning occurs more frequently in males and the young.\n\nDrowning is most often quick and unspectacular. Its media depictions as a loud, violent struggle have much more in common with distressed non-swimmers, who may well drown but have not yet begun to do so. In particular, an asphyxiating person is seldom able to call for help. The instinctive drowning response covers many signs or behaviors associated with drowning or near-drowning:\n\nDrowning begins at the point a person is unable to keep their mouth above water; inhalation of water takes place at a later stage. Most people demonstrating the instinctive drowning response do not show obvious prior evidence of distress.\n\nA person drowning is generally unable to call for help, or seek attention, as they cannot obtain enough air. The instinctive drowning response is the final set of autonomic reactions in the 20–60 seconds before sinking underwater, and to the untrained eye can look similar to calm safe behavior. Lifeguards and other persons trained in rescue learn to recognize drowning people by watching for these movements.\n\nApproximately 90% of drownings take place in freshwater (rivers, lakes and swimming pools) and 10% in seawater. Drownings in other fluids are rare, and often relate to industrial accidents. In New Zealand's early colonial history, so many settlers died while trying to cross rivers that drowning was known as \"The New Zealand death\".\n\nPeople have drowned in as little as 30 mm of water lying face down. Children have drowned in baths, buckets and toilets; inebriates or those under the influence of drugs have died in puddles.\n\nDrowning can also happen in ways that are less well known:\n\n\nPopulations groups at risk:\n\nBehavioral and physical factors:\n\nDrowning can be considered as going through four stages:\n\nGenerally, in the early stages of drowning a person holds their breath to prevent water from entering their lungs. When this is no longer possible a small amount of water entering the trachea causes a muscular spasm that seals the airway and prevents further passage of water. If the process is not interrupted, loss of consciousness due to hypoxia is followed rapidly by cardiac arrest.\n\nA conscious person will hold his or her breath (see Apnea) and will try to access air, often resulting in panic, including rapid body movement. This uses up more oxygen in the blood stream and reduces the time to unconsciousness. The person can voluntarily hold his or her breath for some time, but the breathing reflex will increase until the person tries to breathe, even when submerged.\n\nThe breathing reflex in the human body is weakly related to the amount of oxygen in the blood but strongly related to the amount of carbon dioxide (see Hypercapnia). During apnea, the oxygen in the body is used by the cells, and excreted as carbon dioxide. Thus, the level of oxygen in the blood decreases, and the level of carbon dioxide increases. Increasing carbon dioxide levels lead to a stronger and stronger breathing reflex, up to the \"breath-hold breakpoint\", at which the person can no longer voluntarily hold his or her breath. This typically occurs at an arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide of 55 mm Hg, but may differ significantly from individual to individual.\n\nThe breath-hold break point can be suppressed or delayed either intentionally or unintentionally. Hyperventilation before any dive, deep or shallow, flushes out carbon dioxide in the blood resulting in a dive commencing with an abnormally low carbon dioxide level; a potentially dangerous condition known as hypocapnia. The level of carbon dioxide in the blood after hyperventilation may then be insufficient to trigger the breathing reflex later in the dive and a blackout may occur without warning and before the diver feels any urgent need to breathe. This can occur at any depth and is common in distance breath-hold divers in swimming pools. Hyperventilation is often used by both deep and distance free-divers to flush out carbon dioxide from the lungs to suppress the breathing reflex for longer. It is important not to mistake this for an attempt to increase the body's oxygen store. The body at rest is fully oxygenated by normal breathing and cannot take on any more. Breath holding in water should always be supervised by a second person, as by hyperventilating, one increases the risk of shallow water blackout because insufficient carbon dioxide levels in the blood fail to trigger the breathing reflex.\n\nA continued lack of oxygen in the brain, hypoxia, will quickly render a person unconscious usually around a blood partial pressure of oxygen of 25–30 mmHg. An unconscious person rescued with an airway still sealed from laryngospasm stands a good chance of a full recovery. Artificial respiration is also much more effective without water in the lungs. At this point the person stands a good chance of recovery if attended to within minutes. More than 10% of drownings may involve laryngospasm, but the evidence suggests that it is not usually effective at preventing water from entering the trachea. The lack of water found in lungs during autopsy does not necessarily mean there was no water at the time of drowning, as small amounts of freshwater are readily absorbed into the bloodstream. Hypercarbia and hypoxia both contribute to laryngeal relaxation, after which the airway is effectively open through the trachea. There is also bronchospasm and mucous production in the bronchi associated with laryngospasm, and these may prevent water entry at terminal relaxation.\n\nThe hypoxemia and acidosis caused by asphyxia in drowning affect various organs. There can be central nervous system damage, cardiac arhythmias, pulmonary injury, reperfusion injury, and multiple-organ secondary injury with prolonged tissue hypoxia.\n\nA lack of oxygen or chemical changes in the lungs may cause the heart to stop beating. This cardiac arrest stops the flow of blood and thus stops the transport of oxygen to the brain. Cardiac arrest used to be the traditional point of death but at this point there is still a chance of recovery. The brain cannot survive long without oxygen and the continued lack of oxygen in the blood combined with the cardiac arrest will lead to the deterioration of brain cells causing first brain damage and eventually brain death from which recovery is generally considered impossible. The brain will die after approximately six minutes without oxygen at normal body temperature, but hypothermia of the central nervous system may prolong this.\n\nThe extent of central nervous system injury to a large extent determines the survival and long term consequences of drowning, In the case of children, most survivors are found within 2 minutes of immersion, and most fatalities are found after 10 minutes or more.\n\nIf water enters the airways of a conscious person, the person will try to cough up the water or swallow it, often inhaling more water involuntarily. When water enters the larynx or trachea, both conscious and unconscious persons experience laryngospasm, in which the vocal cords constrict, sealing the airway. This prevents water from entering the lungs. Because of this laryngospasm, in the initial phase of drowning, water generally enters the stomach and very little water enters the lungs. Though laryngospasm prevents water from entering the lungs, it also interferes with breathing. In most persons, the laryngospasm relaxes some time after unconsciousness and water can then enter the lungs causing a \"wet drowning\". However, about 7–10% of people maintain this seal until cardiac arrest. This has been called \"dry drowning\", as no water enters the lungs. In forensic pathology, water in the lungs indicates that the person was still alive at the point of submersion. Absence of water in the lungs may be either a dry drowning or indicates a death before submersion.\n\nAspirated water that reaches the alveoli destroys the pulmonary surfactant, which causes pulmonary oedema and decreased lung compliance which compromises oxygenation in affected parts of the lungs. This is associated with metabolic acidosis, and secondary fluid and electrolyte shifts. During alveolar fluid exchange, diatoms present in the water may pass through the alveolar wall into the capillaries to be carried to internal organs. Presence of these diatoms may be diagnostic of drowning.\n\nOf people who have survived drowning, almost one third will experience complications such as acute lung injury (ALI) or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).  ALI/ARDS can be triggered by pneumonia, sepsis and water aspiration and are life-threatening disorders that can result in death if not treated promptly. During drowning, aspirated water enters the lung tissues, causes a reduction in alveolar surfactant, obstructs ventilation and triggers a release of inflammatory mediators which ultimately results in hypoxia.  Once someone has reached definitive care, supportive care strategies such as mechanical ventilation can help to reduce the complications of ALI/ARDS.\n\nWhether a person drowns in fresh water versus salt water makes no difference in the respiratory management or the outcome of the person. People who drown in fresh water may experience worse hypoxemia early in their treatment, however, this initial difference is short-lived and the management of both fresh water and salt water drowning is essentially the same.\n\nSubmerging the face in water cooler than about triggers the diving reflex, common to air-breathing vertebrates, especially marine mammals such as whales and seals. This reflex protects the body by putting it into \"energy saving\" mode to maximize the time it can stay under water. The strength of this reflex is greater in colder water and has three principal effects:\n\nThe reflex action is automatic and allows both a conscious and an unconscious person to survive longer without oxygen under water than in a comparable situation on dry land. The exact mechanism for this effect has been debated and may be a result of brain cooling similar to the protective effects seen in patients treated with deep hypothermia.\n\nThe actual cause of death in cold or very cold water is usually lethal bodily reactions to increased heat loss and to freezing water, rather than any loss of core body temperature. Of those who die after plunging into freezing seas, around 20% die within 2 minutes from cold shock (uncontrolled rapid breathing and gasping causing water inhalation, massive increase in blood pressure and cardiac strain leading to cardiac arrest, and panic), another 50% die within 15 – 30 minutes from cold incapacitation (loss of use and control of limbs and hands for swimming or gripping, as the body 'protectively' shuts down the peripheral muscles of the limbs to protect its core), and exhaustion and unconsciousness cause drowning, claiming the rest within a similar time. A notable example of this occurred during the sinking of the \"Titanic\", in which most people who entered the water died within 15–30 minutes.\n\nHeat transfers very well into water, and body heat is therefore lost extremely quickly in water compared to air, even in merely 'cool' swimming waters around 70F (~20C). A water temperature of can lead to death in as little as one hour, and water temperatures hovering at freezing can lead to death in as little as 15 minutes. This is because cold water can have other lethal effects on the body, so hypothermia is not usually a reason for drowning or the clinical cause of death for those who drown in cold water.\n\nHypothermia (and also cardiac arrest) present a risk for \"survivors\" of immersion, as for survivors of exposure; in particular the risk increases if the survivor, feeling well again, tries to get up and move, not realizing their core body temperature is still very low and will take a long time to recover.\n\nMost victims of cold-water drowning do not develop hypothermia quickly enough to decrease cerebral metabolism before ischemia and irreversible hypoxia occur. The neuroprotective effects appear to require water temperatures below about 5 °C.\n\nThe World Health Organization in 2005 defined drowning as \"the process of experiencing respiratory impairment from submersion/immersion in liquid\". This definition does not imply death, or even the necessity for medical treatment after removal of the cause, nor that any fluid enters the lungs. The WHO further recommended that outcomes should be classified as: death, morbidity, and no morbidity. There was also consensus that the terms wet, dry, active, passive, silent, and secondary drowning should no longer be used.\n\nExperts differentiate between distress and drowning. \n\nForensic diagnosis of drowning is considered one of the most difficult in forensic medicine. External examination and autopsy findings are often non-specific, and the available laboratory tests are often inconclusive or controversial. The purpose of investigation is generally to distinguish whether the death was due to immersion, or whether the body was immersed post mortem. The mechanism in acute drowning is hypoxemia and irreversible cerebral anoxia due to submersion in liquid.\n\nDrowning would be considered as a possible cause of death when the body was recovered from a body of water, or in close proximity to a fluid which could plausibly have caused drowning, or when found with the head immersed in a fluid. A medical diagnosis of death by drowning is generally made after other possible causes of death have been excluded by means of a complete autopsy and toxicology tests. Indications of drowning are seldom completely unambiguous, and may include bloody froth in the airway, water in the stomach, cerebral oedema and petrous or mastoid haemorrhage. Some evidence of immersion may be unrelated to the cause of death, and lacerations and abrasions may have occurred before or after immersion or death.\n\nDiatoms should normally never be present in human tissue unless water was aspirated, and their presence in tissues such as bone marrow suggests drowning, however, they are present in soil and the atmosphere and samples may easily be contaminated. An absence of diatoms does not rule out drowning, as they are not always present in water. A match of diatom shells to those found in the water may provide supporting evidence of the place of death. Drowning in salt water can leave significantly different concentrations of sodium and chloride ions in the left and right chambers of the heart, but this will dissipate if the person survived for some time after the aspiration, or if CPR was attempted, and have been described in other causes of death.\n\nMost autopsy findings relate to asphyxia and are not specific to drowning. The signs of drowning are degraded by decomposition. Large amounts of froth will be present around the mouth and nostrils and in the upper and lower airways in freshly drowned bodies. The volume of froth is generally much greater in drowning than from other origins. Lung density may be higher than normal but normal weights are possible after cardiac arrest reflex or vaso-vagal reflex. The lungs may be over inflated and waterlogged, filling the thoracic cavity, and the surface may have a marbled appearance, with darker areas associated with collapsed alveoli interspersed with paler aerated areas. Fluid trapped in the lower airways may block the passive collapse that is normal after death. Haemorrhagic bullae of emphysema may be found. These are related to rupture of alveolar walls. These signs, while suggestive of drowning, are not conclusive.\n\nMost drowning is preventable. It has been estimated that more than 85% of drownings could have been prevented by supervision, training in water skills, technology, regulation and public education.\n\nMany pools and designated bathing areas either have lifeguards, a pool safety camera system for local or remote monitoring, or computer-aided drowning detection. However, bystanders play an important role in drowning detection and either intervention or the notification of authorities by phone or alarm.\n\nLifeguards may be unaware of a drowning due to \"failure to recognize the struggle, the intrusion of non-lifeguard duties upon lifeguards' primary task-preventive lifeguarding, and the distraction from surveillance duties\".\n\nPool alarms have poor evidence for any utility.\n\nMany people who are drowning manage to save themselves, or are assisted by bystanders or professional rescuers. Less than 6% of people rescued by lifeguards need medical attention, and only 0.5% need CPR. The statistics are not as good for rescue by bystanders, but even there, a minority require CPR.\n\nRescue involves bringing the person's mouth and nose above the water surface. A drowning person may cling to the rescuer and try to pull himself out of the water, submerging the rescuer in the process. Rescuers should avoid endangering themselves unnecessarily and where possible should provide assistance from a safe position, such as a boat, or by providing flotation or a means of towing from a distance.\n\nWhere it is necessary to approach a panicking person in deep water, it is advised that the rescuer approach with a buoyant object, or from behind, twisting the person's arm on the back to restrict movement. If the rescuer does get pushed under water, they can dive downwards to escape.\n\nAfter a successful approach, negatively buoyant objects such as a weight belt are removed. The priority is then to transport the person to the water's edge in preparation for removal from the water. The person is turned on their back with a secure grip used to tow from behind. If the person is cooperative they may be towed in a similar fashion held at the armpits. If the person is unconscious they may be pulled in a similar fashion held at the chin and cheeks, ensuring that the mouth and nose are well above the water.\n\nRescue, and where necessary, resuscitation, should be started as early as possible. If conscious, the person should be taken out of the water as soon as possible. In-water resuscitation may increase the chances of a favourable result by a factor of about three, if there will be any delay in getting the person out of the water, but the necessary skills require training. Only rescue ventilation is practicable in the water, chest compressions require a suitable platform, so in-water assessment of circulation is pointless. If the person does not respond after a few breaths, cardiac arrest may be assumed, and getting them out of the water becomes the priority. Special care has to be taken for people with suspected spinal injuries, and a back board (spinal board) may be needed for the rescue.\n\nThe checks for responsiveness and breathing are carried out with the person horizontally supine. If unconscious but breathing, the recovery position is appropriate. If not breathing, rescue ventilation is necessary. Drowning can produce a gasping pattern of apnea while the heart is still beating, and ventilation alone may be sufficient. The airway-breathing-circulation (ABC) sequence should be followed, rather than starting with compressions as is typical in cardiac arrest, as the basic problem is lack of oxygen. Five initial breaths are recommended, as the initial ventilation may be difficult because of water in the airways which can interfere with effective alveolar inflation. Thereafter a sequence of two breaths and 30 chest compressions is recommended, repeated until vital signs are re-established, the rescuers are unable to continue, or advanced life support is available.\n\nAttempts to actively expel water from the airway by abdominal thrusts, Heimlich maneuver or positioning head downwards should be avoided as there is no obstruction by solids, and they delay the start of ventilation and increase the risk of vomiting, with a significantly increased risk of death, as aspiration of stomach contents is a common complication of resuscitation efforts.\n\nTreatment for hypothermia may also be necessary. However, in those who are unconscious, it is recommended their temperature not be increased above 34 degrees C. Because of the diving reflex, people submerged in cold water and apparently drowned may revive after a relatively long period of immersion. Rescuers retrieving a child from water significantly below body temperature should attempt resuscitation even after protracted immersion.\n\nAdministration of oxygen at 15 litres per minute by face mask or bag valve mask is often sufficient, but tracheal intubation with mechanical ventilation may be necessary. Suctioning of pulmonary oedema fluid should be balanced against the need for oxygenation. The target of ventilation is to achieve 92% to 96% arterial saturation and adequate chest rise. Positive end-expiratory pressure will generally improve oxygenation. Drug administration via peripheral veins is preferred over endotracheal administration. Hypotension remaining after oxygenation may be treated by rapid crystalloid infusion. Cardiac arrest in drowning usually presents as asystole or pulseless electrical activity. Ventricular fibrillation is more likely to be associated with complications of pre-existing coronary artery disease, severe hypothermia, or the use of epinephrine or norepinephrine.\n\nWhile surfactant may be used no high quality evidence exist that looks at this practice. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation may be used in those who cannot be oxygenated otherwise. Steroids are not recommended.\n\nPeople who have drowned who arrive at a hospital with spontaneous circulation and breathing usually recover with good outcomes. Early provision of basic and advanced life support improve probability of positive outcome.\n\nLonger duration of submersion is associated with lower probability of survival and higher probability of permanent neurological damage.\n\nContaminants in the water can cause bronchospasm and impaired gas exchange, and can cause secondary infection with delayed severe respiratory compromise.\n\nLow water temperature can cause ventricular fibrillation, but hypothermia during immersion can also slow the metabolism, allowing a longer hypoxia before severe damage occurs. Hypothermia which reduces brain temperature significantly can improve outcome. A reduction of brain temperature by 10 °C decreases ATP consumption by approximately 50%, which can double the time that the brain can survive.\n\nThe younger the victim, the better the chances of survival. In one case, a child submerged in cold () water for 66 minutes was resuscitated without apparent neurological damage. However, over the long term significant deficits were noted, including a range of cognitive difficulties, particularly general memory impairment, although recent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) were within normal range.\n\nDrowning is a major worldwide cause of death and injury in children. Long term neurological outcomes of drowning cannot be predicted accurately during the early stages of treatment and although survival after long submersion times, mostly by young children, has been reported, many survivors will remain severely and permanently neurologically compromised after much shorter submersion times. Factors affecting probability of long term recovery with mild deficits or full function in young children include the duration of submersion, whether advanced life support was needed at the accident site, the duration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and whether spontaneous breathing and circulation are present on arrival at the emergency room.\n\nData on long-term outcome are scarce and unreliable. Neurological examination at the time of discharge from hospital does not accurately predict long term outcomes. Some people with severe brain injury and were transferred to other institutions died months or years after the drowning and are recorded as survivors. Non-fatal drownings have been estimated as two to four times more frequent than fatal drownings.\n\nIn 2013, drowning was estimated to have resulted in 368,000 deaths, down from 545,000 deaths in 1990. There are more than 20 times that many non-fatal incidents. It is the third leading cause of death from unintentional trauma after traffic injuries and falls.\n\nIn many countries, drowning is one of the main causes of preventable death for children under 12 years old. In the United States in 2006, 1100 people under 20 years of age died from drowning. Typically the United Kingdom has 450 drownings per year, or 1 per 150,000, whereas in the United States there are about 6,500 drownings yearly, around 1 per 50,000. In Asia suffocation and drowning were the leading causes of preventable death for children under five years of age; a 2008 report by the organization found that in Bangladesh, for instance, 46 children drown each day.\n\nMales, due to a generally increased likelihood for risk taking, are 4 times more likely to have submersion injuries.\n\nIn the fishing industry, the largest group of drownings is associated with vessel disasters in bad weather, followed by man-overboard incidents and boarding accidents at night; either in foreign ports, or under the influence of alcohol. Scuba diving deaths are estimated at 700 to 800 per year, associated with inadequate training and experience, exhaustion, panic, carelessness and barotrauma.\n\nIn the United States, drowning is the second leading cause of death (after motor vehicle accidents) in children 12 and younger.\n\nPeople who drown are more likely to be male, young, or adolescent.\n\nSurveys indicate that 10% of children under 5 have experienced a situation with a high risk of drowning. Worldwide, about 175,000 children die through drowning every year. The causes of drowning cases in the US from 1999 to 2006 are as follows:\n\nThe word \"drowning\"—like \"electrocution\"—was previously used to describe fatal events only, and occasionally that usage is still insisted upon, though the consensus of the medical community supports the definition used in this article. Several terms related to drowning which have been used in the past are also no longer recommended. These include:\n\nActive drowning: People, such as non-swimmers and the exhausted or hypothermic at the surface, who are unable to hold their mouth above water and are suffocating due to lack of air. Instinctively, people in such cases perform well-known behaviors in the last 20–60 seconds before being submerged, representing the body's last efforts to obtain air. Notably, such people are unable to call for help, talk, reach for rescue equipment, or alert swimmers even feet away, and they may drown quickly and silently close to other swimmers or safety.\n\nDry drowning:Drowning in which no water enters the lungs\n\nNear drowning: Drowning which is not fatal\n\nWet drowning: Drowning in which water enters the lungs\n\nPassive drowning: People who suddenly sink or have sunk due to a change in their circumstances. Examples include people who drown in an accident, or due to sudden loss of consciousness or sudden medical condition.\n\nSecondary drowning: Physiological response to foreign matter in the lungs due to drowning causing extrusion of liquid into the lungs (pulmonary edema) which adversely affects breathing\n\nSilent drowning: Drowning without a noticeable external display of distress.\n\nDry drowning is a term that has never had an accepted medical definition, and that is currently medically discredited. Following the 2002 World Congress on Drowning in Amsterdam, a consensus definition of drowning was established. Based on this definition, drowning is the \"process of experiencing respiratory impairment from submersion/immersion in liquid.\" This definition resulted in only three legitimate drowning subsets: fatal drowning, non-fatal drowning with illness/injury, and non-fatal drowning without illness/injury. In response, major medical consensus organizations have adopted this definition worldwide and have officially discouraged any medical or publication use of the term \"dry drowning\". Such organizations include the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation, the Wilderness Medical Society, the American Heart Association, the Utstein Style system, the International Lifesaving Federation, the International Conference on Drowning, Starfish Aquatics Institute, the American Red Cross, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the World Health Organization and the American College of Emergency Physicians.\n\nDrowning experts have recognized that the end result pathophysiology of hypoxemia, acidemia, and eventual death is the same whether water entered the lung or not. As this distinction does not change management or prognosis, but causes significant confusion due to alternate definitions and misunderstandings, it is generally established that pathophysiological discussions of \"dry\" versus \"wet\" drowning are not relevant to drowning care.\n\n\"Dry drowning\" is frequently cited in the news with a wide variety of definitions. and is often confused with the equally inappropriate and discredited term \"secondary drowning\" or \"delayed drowning\". Various conditions including spontaneous pneumothorax, chemical pneumonitis, bacterial or viral pneumonia, head injury, asthma, heart attack, and chest trauma have been misattributed to the erroneous terms \"delayed drowning\", \"secondary drowning\", and \"dry drowning\". Currently, there has never been a case identified in the medical literature where a person was observed to be without symptoms and who died hours or days later as a direct result of drowning alone.\n\nIn Europe, drowning was used as capital punishment. During the Middle Ages, a sentence of death was read using the words \"cum fossa et furca\", or \"with pit and gallows\".\n\nDrowning survived as a method of execution in Europe until the 17th and 18th centuries. England had abolished the practice by 1623, Scotland by 1685, Switzerland in 1652, Austria in 1776, Iceland in 1777, and Russia by the beginning of the 1800s. France revived the practice during the French Revolution (1789–1799) and was carried out by Jean-Baptiste Carrier at Nantes.\n\n"}
{"id": "40027574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40027574", "title": "Frederick Barlow", "text": "Frederick Barlow\n\nFrederick Barlow (dates of birth and death unknown) was an English first-class cricketer, active 1834–36, who played for Sheffield Cricket Club. Barlow's batting style is unknown. He was christened at Sheffield, Yorkshire on 2 March 1808.\n\nBarlow made his first-class debut in 1834 for Sheffield in a match against Norfolk at the Hyde Park Ground in Sheffield. In matches against county teams, Sheffield were called Yorkshire. Later in 1834, Barlow played for Sheffield against Nottingham at Hyde Park. His next appearances in first-class cricket were in 1836, when he played twice more against Norfolk, once at the New Ground, Norwich and the other at Hyde Park. In four first-class matches, he scored 58 runs, averaging 8.28, with a highest score of 22.\n\n"}
{"id": "1362869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1362869", "title": "Gilgamesh (manga)", "text": "Gilgamesh (manga)\n\nThe 26-episode anime television series was the first directed by Masahiko Murata, with music by Kaoru Wada. It was created by Group TAC, and it aired on Kansai TV from October 2, 2003 to March 18, 2004. The series received generally positive reviews and was subsequently translated, released on DVD and aired in several other countries, including the United States. \n\nMusic, mystery, intrigues and darkness are central elements of \"Gilgamesh\"'s plot. The series shows clear influences from the story known as the Epic of Gilgamesh, and from different scientific and archaeological influences as well.\n\nThe backdrop of \"Gilgamesh\" is the fight between two opposing forces. One of the forces is known as the Gilgamesh, led by Terumichi Madoka (better known as Enkidu), and the other side is the Countess of Werdenberg and the three Orga-Superior children who live with her. In appearance, the Orga-Superior are indistinguishable from humans. However, they carry a special power known as \"Dynamis\" (a variation of the Greek \"Dunamus\" meaning \"strength\" \"power\" especially \"miraculous power\") which allows them to use psychic energy and control objects using only their mind. The overarching theme of \"Gilgamesh\" is one of choosing sides.\n\nThe tomb of Gilgamesh in Uruk from the story 'The Epic of Gilgamesh' is discovered by a young genius-scientist named Terumichi Madoka, who is drawn to the energy called Dynamis, a word meaning 'power', resonating from the site. He reports his findings, and all of the world's best scientists gather there. When an unknown life form called Tear materializes in Delphys (a pit that seems to have no dimensions and that surrounds the tomb of Gilgamesh) and begins to contaminate embryos that surround it, the scientists stop all of the experiments. Dr. Madoka goes down to Delphys, breaches all of the guards around it and comes into direct contact with Tear, causing an immense explosion that blocks out the sky with a mirror-like layer. This is considered an act of terrorism, as after the explosion, computers and wireless communications stop working, and the planet falls into war and famine. The human population is nearly wiped out. This occurs on October 10, so the incident is called \"Twin X\" (after the Roman numeral symbol for the number 10). \n\nOf the people who worked at Heaven's Gate, which is left in ruins, only Dr. Madoka and a woman introduced as the Countess of Werdenberg survive. Dr. Madoka flees, taking with him ten test subjects contaminated by the life form Tear from the rubble of Heaven's Gate, who grow up to become the ten Gilgamesh. The Countess of Werdenberg leads a team of three children (the Orga-Superior) who can use the Dynamis to battle the Gilgamesh that work for Dr. Madoka. The present Dr. Madoka (who calls himself Enkidu and that the Gilgamesh refer to as the Professor) does not appear until the very last episode of the series. It is learned through the Gilgamesh that he wants to wipe out the human race in a 'Cleansing Flood' and give rise to a new, more powerful human race.\n\nLater in the series, a company known as the Mitleid Corporation throw themselves into the fray. The charismatic son of the Mitleid Chairman, Hayato Kazmatsuri, is a hardline anti-Gilgamesh military contractor who has made it his goal to wipe out the Gilgamesh through whatever means possible. However, Kazmatsuri cannot stand The Countess of Werdenberg because she refuses to tell the Orga-Superior and the siblings the truth about Twin X and their father's connection to it. As well, the siblings want to know the truth about how they were born.\n\nEnkidu needs his two children, Tatsuya and Kiyoko to help him achieve his goal, but they want nothing to do with their terrorist father. The story starts out with them on the run from the Yakuza, because of their dead mother's debt. The story follows the repeated clashing of the four groups as the siblings, who can be called the main characters, try to figure out who to trust (the Gilgamesh who appear to want a better world, the Countess and the Orga-Superior, who are fighting the Gilgamesh and trying to prevent what they believe is the end of humanity, or the Mitleid Corporation who are the only ones trying to tell the children the truth).\n\nIn the end of the series, The Countess of Werdenberg finds out that her heart itself was Tear and that the embryos were contaminated because of her hatred and jealousy towards Terumichi's wife. In the ensuing battle practically everyone dies, including all the Gilgamesh, Tatsuya, Kiyoko, the Orga-Superior, Reiko, and even Kazmatsuri — the final death, after being shot twice by the Countess. After the battle, the Countess surrenders her one-woman war against the sheltering sky, allowing Tear to enter her body and bring the Cleansing Flood. The sky descends, and the human world comes to an end.\n\nIn the last scene, Tear's goal of creating a new world has been realised but the \"new\" human it has given birth to reacts violently to its presence, since it has taken on the form of the young Countess. Consequently, the first act committed by the new human race is murder, suggesting that even Tear's attempts to restructure human nature were doomed from the beginning. After the final credits show, a gloomy scene depicting blood around the new human's face accompanied with a gleeful smile is shown.\n\nTatsuya is a clone of Terumichi Madoka but was given birth to by his wife Azusa and is therefore considered a son of Terumichi and a sibling of Kiyoko. He is fifteen years old and can use the Dynamis. He is extremely attached to his sister, as she is the only family he really has, his mother having descended into madness or depression following Twin X. He trusts the Countess more than his sister does, and assimilates with the Orga very easily, but he sometimes has trouble following the Countess's orders.\n\nKiyoko is about seventeen and was born before the Twin X terrorist attack, so she doesn't have the ability to use the Dynamis. However, she plays a very important role in the series. She acts as a surrogate mother to Tatsuya and has a hard time accepting the Countess's help because she feels like the countess is trying to take her brother away from her. She tries to leave the Countess twice. The first time she is caught and punished by the Countess by being thrown into the Hotel's underground prison. The Countess lets her go after she leaves a second time, but she has to her work to pay her debt to the Countess. She ends up living in a dank apartment in the only urban area in the world, and works as a hostess at a gentlemen's club, since the music store she originally worked at closed down. However, she doesn't let Tatsuya know that since she doesn't want him to worry about her. She loves music and is extremely sensitive to sound. She can match any sound to its proper note, and was taught to play the piano by her father when she was very little. All she wants is a peaceful life with her brother, but her mother's debt and the conflict between the Gilgamesh and Orga keep haunting her, as well as the memory of what her father did, so she can never find any peace. She eventually falls in love with Novem, one of the Gilgamesh. Her love is reciprocated, and she carries his child which becomes the first of a short-lived new species. \n\nThe Countess's real name is Hiroko Kageyama, and she had been employed at Heaven's Gate, working closely with Madoka. She became the Countess after marrying a wealthy scientist and Count she worked with, because the man she loved, Terumichi Madoka, was already married and had a daughter. When the Count dies in Twin X, she inherits his immense fortune. She appears to be the only survivor of the attack and lies in a coma for a few years before deciding to find the children who can use the Dynamis. She searches for and finds three children rumored to have magical powers, pulls them from some pretty bad situations, and raises them as her own children. She teaches them to use their powers, the Dynamis, to fight the Gilgamesh, although they don't know her reasoning for asking them to do such. She despises Kiyoko, most likely for being the daughter of the man she loved, and is much warmer towards Tatsuya because he looks exactly like Terumichi. She has a mansion, but she lives in a huge, fancy hotel. She has a formal dinner with her makeshift family every night, and has the children driven everywhere in the hotel's car which eventually became hers. She can use Dynamis as well, because to save her, cloned pieces of her that had been contaminated by Tear were put in her body. However, she uses it extremely sparingly, or is perhaps unable to use it outside of dangerous situations. She rarely smiles, is always dressed formally, and never speaks of her past.\n\nGilgamesh are six men and four women, capable of using Dynamis, who work for the scientist/terrorist Enkidu. Often portrayed as the antagonists and enemies of Orga, they are the 10 test subjects that Enkidu fled Heaven's Gate with. Their goal is to serve Enkidu by destroying the tower created to restore the blue sky and later cleanse the world in order to perpetuate a new species of human. Gilgamesh are created as half human, half god and made of anti-matter. They are referred to as 'God Beasts', referring to their second, non human forms. Gilgamesh are named after the lot number they were in the tomb of Gilgamesh. The female members of Gilgamesh wear red and the male members wear black and their tattoos, each in different places on their bodies, signify different aspects of divinity. The Gilgamesh never reveal their names in the anime.\n\nThe first female Gilgamesh member introduced in the series, Uno (One) can be recognized by her light blue eyes, long red hair and the plait wound around her head. She has high standards; coming across as harsh and criticising. She is the first female member to die and the fourth member overall, impaled mercilessly on the many spears of the Blattaria and glaring at their leader Kazamatsuri the whole time. While she is scathing and harsh speaking, she listens and follows Novem's orders. She also has a very low opinion of Orga, not even becoming concearned when she is out numbered two to one by Orga.\n\nThe replacement for Octo, Duo (Two) acts as a contrast to Novem. Duo is the most physically strong of the Gilgamesh in both forms, which is reflected in the size and shape of his God Beast form. It is remarked that Duo is harsh, angry and cruel and when fighting the Blattaria, uses his strength more than his Dynamis. Duo is recognizable by his hazel, almost gold eyes and white hair which sticks up wildly. According to Novem, he is also poetic but that may have been sarcasm as Duo was talking harshly about the city. He is more than willing to follow Novem's orders. His tattoo covers his entire back.\n\nUnlike other members of Gilgamesh, his Dynamis takes shape in the form of Lightning strikes as demonstrated in episode eighteen when Tria singlehandedly destroys an Army of Blattaria. Tria's personality comes off as very angry and snobbish. Tria can be recognized by his long blond hair. There is an underlying tension between Tria and Novem over who should lead Gilgamesh. Tria does not see the killing of humans as wrong but rather as a cleansing. His mark is found on his hand.\n\nThe third member of the female Gilgamesh to be introduced, Quattuor is unlike the other female members of Gilgamesh. Firstly she can be recognized as the only Gilgamesh to have a visible tattoo on her body, as her eye is covered with one. She also has darker-colored skin from the rest of the Gilgamesh (possibly being African). As well, she can be recognized by her very short gray hair. Quattuor appears to have the power to control the weather. Quattuor is aware of the rivalry between Tria and Novem but doesn't care about it. She is satisfied as long as Enkidu's will is carried out.\n\nThe final member of Gilgamesh to be seen, she does not appear until episode twenty-four. There is little known about her, though she is easily recognizable with her short brown bobbed hair. She is known as \"Quinque\" in the Japanese version. Cinque acts as a messenger between Enkidu and the other members of Gilgamesh.\n\nSex has hazel eyes and short, light red hair that seems to stick out in every direction simultaneously. Sex is often the opponent of Fuko, and seems to be attracted to her, from their first clash trying to sway Tatsuya and Kiyoko to the time they fight in an alleyway. Sex gets Fuko at a disadvantage — using his body to restrain her he tells her: \"The closer I get, the better you look\", to which Fuko responds \"Then you're too close\" and kicks him away. Sex is one of the first three members of Gilgamesh seen, when he is introduced along with Novem and Octo to try to tempt Kiyoko and Tatsuya to Gilgamesh's side. The first Gilgamesh member to transform into his God Beast form and the second to fall, Sex (Six) gives his life in order to destroy the Tower, creating chaos and killing hundreds of people in the town. His tattoo is around his navel.\n\nThe second female member to appear, she first appears in episode eighteen when she tries to take back Novem from Kiyoko Madoka, She appears to be the most vengeful and spiteful female member of the Gilgamesh. She can be recognized by her long brown hair and dark blue eyes. She is the physically strongest female member of the Gilgamesh. Septem is the strongest supporter of Novem in Gilgamesh and goes out of her way in battle to help Novem out. Septem is particularly attached to Novem. She heals the wounds Novem got while fighting the Blattaria by kissing him. It is no surprise that with her close (but rather one-sided) relationship to Novem, that Septem dislikes Kiyoko so much.\n\nThe first Gilgamesh member to die, Octo (Eight) is dealt a fatal wound when Orga clashed with Gilgamesh after Gilgamesh kidnapped Kiyoko from the Hotel Providence. A building at the airport collapses on Octo, who struggles out from under the rubble, nearly completely unable to move. As the Countess coolly informs Isamu to retrieve the body for scientific study, Octo recognizes Novem, who inclines his head regretfully, and Octo reverses his anti-matter, causing a massive explosion that rocks the whole area. Octo has ice blue eyes and dark brown hair cut just above his chin, and bangs. He is one of the three first introduced and is the one to significantly make five cups of cocoa instead of three. Octo is the most gentle of the Gilgamesh with the possible exception of Novem, and likes animals, as illustrated when he is seen feeding the seagulls popcorn shortly before his death. His tattoo is on the back of his neck.\n\nThe most charismatic and prominent member of Gilgamesh, Novem (Nine) is the kind blond who eventually captures Kiyoko's heart. He has blue eyes and short hair with a fringe usually covering his right eye. He remains calm at all times, and generally takes a position equivalent to leader, giving the orders to his team members. Novem genuinely believes that Gilgamesh has a sacred purpose, regardless of the lives taken to get to that end. In the battle with Kazamatsuri's Blattaria where his teammates die, Novem is shot with a substance which converts anti-matter to matter, which grievously injures him. Falling unconscious, he is found by Kiyoko who tries to heal him. With Kiyoko as the mother, Novem is the father of a very short-lived new human race. He confesses to Tatsuya \"Your sister... I did love her\" before his death. His tattoo is on his left shoulder.\n\nThe last male member of the Gilgamesh to be seen. Decem's Dynamis seems to be able to manifest itself in the power of Water; he is a strong Dynamis user, but there is little else known about him. He can be recognized by his ponytailed blue hair. Decem is more calm then Tria in meeting but seems to like Tria over Novem.\n\nThe Mitleid Corporation is a group of anti-Gilgamesh hardliners bent on destroying the Gilgamesh at any cost. The Corporation itself is led by its mysterious Chairman, Toranosuke Yuki.\n\nDespite only appearing in one episode, Chairman Yuki is introduced into the story when the Countess receives a letter stating that the Chairman would be holding a living funeral as he was growing deathly ill and did not have much time left. It was later discovered that the Chairman present at the funeral was but a body double and the real Chairman was being hidden in another room in his estate, in case the Gilgamesh attacked. Toranosuke is killed (inadvertently) by Reiko while on his deathbed when she tries to revive him with an accidentally lethal dose of Dynamis. Among other oddities in his Estate, the Chairman keeps pomegranate trees and also has a pond filled with salamander-like hybrids. Chairman Yuki was responsible for a majority of the funding of Heaven's Gate.\n\nA quiet young girl who dresses in a very formal kimono dress and generally seems to have an aura of mystery around her. For some reason her hair always covers what some might believe to be her eyes — it is later found out that she underwent surgery to give her eyes to Chairman Yuki because he had gone blind and she felt sorry for him. However, it was discovered that she was a Dynamis user and thus did not need her eyes in order for her to see. Because she has lived such a long time without her eyesight, her Dynamis is much further advanced than anyone else's in the series, as she has the power to lift even the largest buildings. Later in the series she is in fact revealed to be Chairman Yuki's clone and therefore a boy. His death in the final battle is gruesome, as Tria's God Beast form tears him limb from limb.\n\nThe son of Chairman Yuki, he was born out of an affair with one of the Chairman's many mistresses. Kazmatsuri is depicted as a very angry and stubborn warmonger. He is the owner of his own weapons contracting company. His greatest creation however is his army of anti-Gilgamesh creatures, known as the Blattaria. Kazmatsuri is the one who told the Orga children about how they were born and how they came about.\n\nAn acquaintance of the Countess of Werdenberg, she works for the Mitleid corporation and tries to change the sky back to its original shape, which she succeeds in doing. Unfortunately, her plan backfires as the Gilgamesh work their way up the tower and Sex sacrifices himself to blow up the entire facility. Professor Enuma dies, after the tower collapses.\n\nDuring the course of the series it is revealed that Professor Enuma was one of the Heaven's Gate scientists and the only one away from the building during XX. She was away while implanting herself with her own clone in order to have a child. However, that child is killed along with many others due to XX and Professor Enuma has a personal grudge against the sheltering sky that she blames for her child's death. Enuma was the one who first brought the countess to Heaven's Gate.\n\nOrga is the name of the organization that includes the Countess's three adopted children: Isamu, Fuko and Tohru, whom she uses to fight Gilgamesh. \nIsamu, Fuko and Tohru (along with Tatsuya) are later revealed to be clones of original scientists at Heaven's Gate, contaminated in the Twin X explosion by Tear's light resulting in their ability to use Dynamis. It is also revealed that the embryos of their DNA were put into pigs, which means that their \"birth mother\" is technically a pig. However, later and to his relief, Tohru learns that he was indeed born from a human mother just like Tatsuya.\n\n\n\"Gilgamesh\", like many other anime, features a sequence of classical music as a prominent theme throughout the series. In this case, the 'adagio' from Beethoven's Emperor Concerto is a recurring piece and \"Love Unspoken\" from Franz Lehár's \"The Merry Widow\". The Robert Lowry-composed hymn \"Shall We Gather at the River?\" also appears several times, either sung by one or more characters or played on the Hotel Providence's piano.\n"}
{"id": "24488862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24488862", "title": "Globitermes sulphureus", "text": "Globitermes sulphureus\n\nGlobitermes sulphureus is a species of termite that is very common in Central and Southern Vietnam and also present in other areas of South East Asia, including Malaysia. They live in nests made of earth that can be up to 1.5 m tall and can contain tens of thousands of individuals. Between five and 10 per cent of the population are soldier termites which can be recognised by their yellow abdomen and two large, curved mandibles. The termites use autothysis as a defense mechanism.\n\nWhen the nest is damaged, the soldier termites defend the nest and workers rapidly repair any damage to the nest walls. The soldiers stand on alert on their legs and scan the area with their antennae. If the nest is attacked by ants, for example \"Oecophylla smaragdina\", the workers immediately escape by retreating into the nest, while the soldiers remain outside to defend the nest. They will first attempt to catch and pierce the attackers with their large mandibles. If this does not deter the attackers, some soldiers secrete a yellow liquid from a large gland that occupies a large proportion of their body. The liquid is forced out of the gland by contractions of the mandibular muscles which compress the walls of the gland. This liquid rapidly hardens on contact with air, producing a sticky substance that traps ants and other termites. The secretion also contains a pheromone which attracts more soldiers to fight the attackers. In some cases, the contractions are so violent that the termites rupture themselves. This form of suicidal altruism is known as autothysis.\n\n\"G. sulphureus\" is able to fix nitrogen. An experiment in Thailand found that they fix around 250 grams of nitrogen per hectare per year. Although this contribution is only between 7% and 22% of the total nitrogen inputs in the ecosystem it is thought to be relatively important as termites add it to dead wood, thereby accelerating its decomposition.\n\n\"G. sulphureus\" forages areas of up to 62m and ventures up to 16m away from its nest.\n\nThe species is a major pest in areas it inhabits as it attacks wooden structures and can damage coconut and oil palm plantations. Experiments have shown that it can be controlled using the insecticide imidacloprid.\n\n\"Camponotus saundersi\" is an ant with a similar defensive mechanism.\n\n"}
{"id": "44409038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44409038", "title": "H. R. Oswald", "text": "H. R. Oswald\n\nHenry Robert Oswald M.D., M.B., C.M., (8 February 1852 - 1940) was a British barrister and coroner. He was president of the Coroners' Society of England and Wales.\n\nOswald was born on 8 February 1852 in Trichnopoly, Madras, India, the son of Surgeon General H.R. Oswald who was serving in the Indian Army. He was privately educated in the Isle of Man and later Edgbaston, Birmingham, before moving on to the Royal High School, Edinburgh. Oswald originally intended to enter the Indian Civil Service but changed his mind and studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh. He then went into practice as a medical doctor, achieving his MD from Edinburgh University in 1881. Then, in 1890 he entered the Middle Temple to train as a barrister, being called to the bar in 1894.\n\nOswald became the deputy-coroner in the Central and Western districts of London, and later in the South-Western and Kingston districts. In 1902 he became the coroner for the South-Eastern district. He moved to the Western district in 1919, a post he held until he retired in 1930.\n\nOswald presided over between 20,000 and 30,000 inquests. Among the notable ones were the first inquest about death from a motor car (1904), a case involving Ronald True, the death of Freda Kempton from a drug overdose in which the dealer Brilliant Chang was implicated (1922), and deaths caused by the 1928 Thames flood of London.\n\nHis reminiscences were published in 1936 by Stanley Paul as \"Memoirs of a London County Coroner\".\n\nOswald married twice, firstly to Jean Moir-Byres with whom he had a daughter. Jean died in 1907. He married again in 1908 to Ethel Mary Cundell. Oswald died in early 1940 in the Salisbury district of Wiltshire.\n"}
{"id": "34676768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34676768", "title": "Hybrid Kohonen self-organizing map", "text": "Hybrid Kohonen self-organizing map\n\nIn artificial neural networks, a hybrid Kohonen self-organizing map is a type of self-organizing map (SOM) named for the Finnish professor Teuvo Kohonen, where the network architecture consists of an input layer fully connected to a 2–D SOM or Kohonen layer. \n\nThe output from the Kohonen layer, which is the winning neuron, feeds into a hidden layer and finally into an output layer. In other words, the Kohonen SOM is the front–end, while the hidden and output layer of a multilayer perceptron is the back–end of the\nhybrid Kohonen SOM. The hybrid Kohonen SOM was first applied to machine vision systems for image classification and recognition. \n\nHybrid Kohonen SOM has been used in weather prediction and especially in forecasting stock prices, which has made a challenging task considerably easier. It is fast and efficient with less classification error, hence is a better predictor, when compared to Kohonen SOM and backpropagation networks.\n"}
{"id": "3952243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3952243", "title": "Involuntary memory", "text": "Involuntary memory\n\nInvoluntary memory, also known as involuntary explicit memory, involuntary conscious memory, involuntary aware memory, and most commonly, involuntary autobiographical memory, is a subcomponent of memory that occurs when cues encountered in everyday life evoke recollections of the past without conscious effort. Voluntary memory, its binary opposite, is characterized by a deliberate effort to recall the past.\nThere appear to be at least three different contexts within which involuntary memory arises, as described by J.H. Mace in his book \"Involuntary Memory\". These include those that occur in everyday life, those that occur during the processes of voluntary and involuntary recall, and those that occur as part of a psychiatric syndrome.\n\nThese include involuntary memories as they arise in everyday mental functioning, comprising the most common occurrences. They are characterized by their element of surprise, as they appear to come into conscious awareness spontaneously. They are the products of common every-day experiences such as eating a piece of cake, bringing to mind a past experience evoked by the taste. The term \"precious fragments\" was coined by Marigold Linton, a pioneer in the study of autobiographical memory research.\n\nThese are less common, and appear to be the result of voluntary/involuntary retrieval. Characteristic of such occurrences is the triggering effect this has, as one involuntary memory leads to another and so on. Again, Linton describes her own experiences with such memories as \"...coming unbidden sometimes when my mind is silent, but also as by-products of searches for other information\".\n\nFinally, some involuntary memories arise from traumatic experiences, and as such are fairly rare compared to other involuntary memories. Subjects describe them as salient, repetitive memories of traumatic events. The troubling nature of such memories makes these occurrences important to clinical researchers in their studies of psychiatric syndromes such as post-traumatic stress disorder.\n\nBorn in Bremen, Germany in 1850, Hermann Ebbinghaus is recognized as the first to apply the principles of experimental psychology to studying memory. He is especially well known for his introduction and application of nonsense syllables in studying memory. Nonsense syllables are combinations of letters that do not follow grammatical rules, and are meant to lack any meaning. Ebbinghaus designed the use of them to study his own memory by memorizing lists of nonsense syllables and testing his own recall after specified time intervals. From this he discovered the forgetting curve and the spacing effect, two of his most well-known contributions. Ebbinghaus was also the first to attempt a description of involuntary memory, stating that, 'Often, even after years, mental states once present in consciousness return to it with apparent spontaneity and without any act of the will; that is, they are reproduced involuntarily. Here, also, in the majority of cases we at once recognize the returned mental state as one that has already been experienced; that is, we remember it. Under certain conditions, however, this accompanying consciousness is lacking, and we know only indirectly that the \"now\" must be identical with the \"then\"; yet we receive in this way a no less valid proof for its existence during the intervening time. As more exact observation teaches us, the occurrence of these involuntary reproductions is not an entirely random and accidental one. On the contrary they are brought about through the instrumentality of other immediately present mental images. Moreover, they occur in certain regular ways that, in general terms, are described under the so-called \"laws of association\".'\n\nMarcel Proust was the first person to coin the term involuntary memory, in his novel \"À la Recherche du Temps Perdu\" (\"In Search of Lost Time\" or \"Remembrance of Things Past\"). Proust did not have any psychological background, and worked primarily as a writer.\n\nProust viewed involuntary memory as containing the \"essence of the past\", claiming that it was lacking from voluntary memory. In his novel, he describes an incident where he was eating tea soaked cake, and a childhood memory of eating tea soaked cake with his aunt was \"revealed\" to him. From this memory, he then proceeded to be reminded of the childhood home he was in, and even the town itself. This becomes a theme throughout \"In Search of Lost Time\", with sensations reminding Proust of previous experiences. He dubbed these \"involuntary memories\".\n\nOne idea that has recently become the subject of studies on involuntary memory is chaining. This is the concept that involuntary memories have the tendency to trigger other involuntary memories that are related. Typically, it is thought to be the contents of involuntary memories that are related to one another, thereby causing the chaining effect.\n\nIn a diary study done by J.H Mace, participants reported that frequently, when one involuntary memory arose, it would quickly trigger a series of other involuntary memories. This was recognized as the cueing source for involuntary memories.\n\nIn work by Bernsten, the diary method was also applied to the study of involuntary memory chaining. The main hypothesis was that chaining would also occur on autobiographical memory tasks. Participants were asked to report the presence of involuntary memories while performing an autobiographical memory task. Results showed that participants did experience involuntary memory recall when they were recalling the past deliberately (also known as voluntary memory). This implies that involuntary memory production occurs as a product of chaining from voluntary memory—deliberate recall of the past.\n\nA common question in the study of involuntary memory is related to priming; what is it that activates such a memory? Various studies have been conducted in recent years to observe the conditions under which involuntary memories are primed.\n\nMace, in one of his recent studies, wanted to test the notion that basic cognitive activities, such as thinking about the past, may prime involuntary memories. To test this idea, Mace set up a diary method study in which participants recorded involuntary memories they experienced during a two-week period, in a diary. During this two-week period, participants also had to come into a laboratory at intervals, and were instructed to recall memories from certain life periods (e.g., high school, first five years of marriage). Following this, comparing their involuntary memories to a control condition found that a significant number of their involuntary memories related to the time period they were instructed to recall. Such findings suggest that involuntary memories may be primed by even the simplest of cognitive tasks—namely, reminiscing and recalling the past.\n\nResearch studies regarding the neurological functions of involuntary memory have been few in number. Thus far, only two neuroimaging studies have been conducted comparing involuntary memories to voluntary memories using Positron Emission Tomography (PET).\n\nThe first study found that involuntary memory retrieval is mediated by the hippocampus, which is known to be associated with successful episodic memory retrieval. In addition, activity in areas such as the left inferior frontal gyrus, left superior temporal gyrus, left hippocampus, and right superior occipital cortex, have been implicated in involuntary memory when dealing with involuntary word recognition tasks. Areas implicated with executive control processes such as right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and bilateral medial/lateral parietal cortex were more active during voluntary word recognition tasks.\n\nThe second study found that the medial temporal lobe, the posterior cingulate gyrus, and the precunueus, are activated during retrieval success with or without executive control seen within right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. This implies that involuntary memories are successfully retrieved using the same system as voluntary memory when retrieving perceptual information. Voluntary and involuntary recall were both associated with increased activations in the posterior cingulated gyrus, left precuneus, and right parahippocampal gyrus. In addition, right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and left precuneus were more active during voluntary recall, while left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex was more active during involuntary recall. It is suggested that the activation seen in left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex during involuntary memory recall reflects the attempt to prevent the recollected material from interfering with the semantic judgment task.\n\nWhile age plays a role in memory capabilities, it has been found that general strategies used to encode (to remember) memories is more important. Those that are better at memorizing information are more likely to have more involuntary memories. \nIn younger children (ages 10 and under), it has also been found that inducing involuntary memory during testing produced significantly better results than using voluntary memory. This can be accomplished by posing a vague, mildly related question or sentence prior to the actual test question. In older children (aged 14 and above), the opposite holds, with strictly voluntary memory leading to better test results.\n\nThe reminiscence bump is the phenomenon where in memories formed during adolescence and early adulthood are more commonly remembered than those throughout other periods in life. This is due to the formation of self-identity or the development of cognitive abilities across the lifespan. It has been found that this is true for both voluntary and involuntary memories. Age has been found to have a difference on the amount of memories recalled, but no age differences were found in the specificity of involuntary memories.\n\nEmotion plays a strong role in relation to memory. It has been found that memories associated with stronger emotions (e.g.: being happy at your wedding) are more easily remembered and quickly recalled, as are those formed during moments of intense stress. The same holds true for involuntary memories, with happy involuntary memories occurring twice as often as unhappy or neutral involuntary memories.\n\nOften people who have been the victims of some type of trauma describe vivid memories that intrude on their thoughts spontaneously and without warning. Such mental intrusions, if maintained over time compose the hallmark symptom of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).\n\nThe \"DSM-IV\" defines a trauma as an event in which someone experiences, or witnesses' severe injury to themselves or others or a threat to their integrity. The person must also have responded with fear, helplessness or horror at the time of the trauma. The main psychological consequences of this include re-experiencing the traumatic event (through both intrusive thoughts and images), avoidance of trauma-related stimuli, and increased arousal levels.\n\nWhen it comes to involuntary memory, researchers are mainly interested in the concept of these trauma-related intrusions, which generally involved some form of re-experiencing the event, including a sensory component (e.g., imagery in any modality be it visual, auditory etc.). These intrusions, often termed \"flashbacks\", make the victim feel as though they are reliving the trauma, and cause high levels of emotional arousal, and the sense of an impending threat. Typically, they are parts of the traumatic event that were most salient at the time, known as \"hotspots\" and have the definitive feature that they cause high levels of emotional distress, and may be difficult to recall deliberately. Although this is a defining feature of PTSD, intrusive memories are also frequently encountered in anxiety-based disorders, psychotic disorders and even within the general population. Regardless of the context in which they are encountered, intrusions tend to have the same central feature; that the stored information is being recalled involuntarily. It is thought that intrusions arise when an individual encounters stimuli similar to the stimuli that were processed and stored during the trauma, thus triggering the memory into the conscious mind. A common example is one in which someone who has the victim of a car crash, upon hearing the screeching of tires experiences a flashback of their own collision, as if they are back at the original event.\n\nStressful and traumatic events, which may manifest as involuntary memories called \"flashbacks\", may trigger a wide range of anxiety-based and psychotic disorders. Social phobia, bipolar disorder, depression, and agoraphobia, are a few examples of disorders that have influences from flashbacks.\n\nPsychosis is defined as a range of perceptual presentations, with the associated symptoms frequently referred to as either \"positive\" or \"negative\". Positive symptoms are delusional, and may include hallucinations, while negative symptoms are characterized by a \"lack\" of functioning, which may include a lack of affect (emotional feeling) and loss of motivation. One study found that there was a high prevalence of trauma in patients with severe mental illness. However, only a small percentage had been diagnosed with PTSD when displaying PTSD-like symptoms. Therefore, the more complex symptoms of psychosis may prevent the clinical detection required when diagnosing PTSD. In addition, those who have been diagnosed with PTSD and have an identified form of trauma show positive symptoms of psychosis such as delusions and/or hallucinations. Finally, it has been suggested that individuals suffering from psychosis may be more vulnerable to intrusions.\n"}
{"id": "223606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223606", "title": "José Luis Ramírez", "text": "José Luis Ramírez\n\nJosé Luis Ramírez (born 1958-12-03) is a retired Mexican boxer. He was a two-time World Lightweight Champion.\n\nA native of Huatabampo, Sonora and a resident of Culiacán, Ramírez made his professional debut on March 25, 1973 at the age of 15. He climbed slowly but steadily on boxing's rankings. In 1978, as a Featherweight, a 19 year old Ramírez lost by knockout for the only time in his career to legendary three time former world champion Rubén Olivares in two rounds.\n\nAfter his move in weight to the Lightweights, 21-year-old Ramírez accumulated a record of 67-2, and met another boxing legend inside a ring, when he fought Alexis Argüello. Ramírez dropped Argüello for the first time in his career in round six, but lost a disputed ten round split decision in Miami. He then faced Ray Mancini for the North American Lightweight belt, and lost a 12 round decision in Ohio. By then, Ramírez and Julio César Chávez were gymmates and friends.\n\nRamírez won his following 10 bouts and on May 1, 1983, he was given the chance at becoming world Lightweight champion for the first time, when he fought Puerto Rican Edwin \"El Chapo\" Rosario at the Coliseo Roberto Clemente in San Juan, Puerto Rico, for the World Boxing Council's championship. Ramírez lost a close 12 round unanimous decision, but on November 3, of 1984, he and Rosario had a rematch, also in San Juan. After rising from two knockdowns, Ramírez rallied back to stagger Rosario in the third round. With Rosario pinned against a corner and Ramírez attacking, referee Steve Crosson stopped the bout in round four, after Ramírez had landed 17 straight punches, making Ramírez a world Lightweight champion for the first time, by a technical knockout. The fight was named the 1984 Ring Magazine fight of the year.\n\nRamírez then went into training for a defense against Héctor Camacho, another boxer from Puerto Rico. The fight was postponed when Camacho suffered a broken ankle during a pick up basketball game, but it finally came off on August 10, 1985. On his first fight telecast on HBO Boxing, Ramírez was dropped in round three and lost a 12 round unanimous decision.\n\nRamírez, a culturally intellectual person, moved to Paris soon after. There, he re-grouped, and was able to regain the WBC's world championship when Camacho left it vacant in 1987, by edging out Terrence Alli with another close but unanimous 12 round decision. In his first title defense, he defeated former champion Cornelius Boza Edwards by fifth round knock out. In his second defense, he was awarded a 12 round split decision victory against future multiple world champion Pernell Whitaker. The consensus among both media and fans was that Whitaker deserved to win the fight.\n\nBack in Mexico, he and Chávez were neighbors. Chávez had lifted the World Boxing Association's world Lightweight championship by beating Rosario, and a unification bout between the two friends and neighbors was planned. Ramírez, who is a godfather to one of Chávez's sons, lost an 11 round technical decision to Chávez on October 29 of 1988, which marked the last day he would be a world champion.\n\nIn 1989, he tried to win the International Boxing Federation's belt from Whitaker, in Virginia, but he lost a 12 round decision. Then, in 1990, he returned to France, where he lost to Juan Martin Coggi by a decision in 12 for the WBA's world Jr. Welterweight title in Ajaccio. After that bout, he retired.\n\nRamírez was a member of the less recognized, defunct \"World Boxing Hall of Fame\" in California, not to be confused with the more widely recognized International Boxing Hall of Fame in Canastota. In 2003, Ring magazine placed Ramirez on their list of the 100 greatest punchers of all time.\n\nHis boxing record is 102-9 (82 KOs). Seven of Ramirez's nine career losses came against future hall of fame members.\n\n"}
{"id": "758073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=758073", "title": "Killing jar", "text": "Killing jar\n\nA killing jar is a device used by entomologists to kill captured insects quickly and with minimum damage. The jar, typically glass, must be hermetically sealable and one design has a thin layer of hardened plaster of paris on the bottom to absorb the killing agent. The killing agent will then slowly evaporate, allowing the jar to be used many times before needing to refresh the jar. The absorbent plaster of paris layer also helps prevent the agent sticking to and damaging insects. Crumpled paper tissue is also placed in the jar for the same reason. A second method utilises a wad of cotton or other absorbent material placed in the bottom of the jar. Liquid killing agent is then added until the absorbent material is nearly saturated. A piece of stiff paper or cardboard cut to fit the inside of the jar tightly is then pressed in.\n\nThe most common killing agents are ether, chloroform and ethyl acetate. Ethyl acetate has many advantages and is very widely used. Its fumes are less toxic to humans than those of the other agents and specimens will remain limp if they are left in an ethyl acetate killing jar for several days and the ethyl acetate is not allowed to entirely evaporate from the specimens. A disadvantage is that although the insects are quickly stunned by ethyl acetate it kills them slowly and specimens may revive if removed from the killing jar too soon. Isopropyl alcohol is an easy to find and use killing agent for amateurs. Potassium cyanide or other cyanide compounds including calcium cyanide are also used, but only by experts due to its extreme toxicity. It also has the disadvantages of making the specimens brittle when left in the jar for several hours and may also cause some discoloration of colored specimens. It does kill rapidly and the cyanide charge will last a long time. A few drops of acetic acid will increase the cyanide gas production. If the jar is not used for long periods it may dry out and produce little gas, therefore a few drops of water will also help get the process going again. The potassium cyanide slowly decomposes, releasing hydrogen cyanide. In former times, amateur entomolgists commonly used the thick green leaves of the Cherry Laurel (Prunus laurocerasus) which, crushed or finely sliced, will similarly release hydrogen cyanide.\n\nKilling jars are only used on hard-bodied insects. Soft-bodied insects, such as the larval stage, are generally fixed in ethanol at 70-80% concentration. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "632782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=632782", "title": "Lament", "text": "Lament\n\nA lament or lamentation is a passionate expression of grief, often in music, poetry, or song form. The grief is most often born of regret, or mourning. Laments can also be expressed in a verbal manner, where the participant would lament about something they regret or someone they've lost, usually accompanied by wailing, moaning and/or crying. Laments constitute some of the oldest forms of writing and examples are present across human cultures. \n\nMany of the oldest and most lasting poems in human history have been laments. The Lament for Sumer and Ur dates back at least 4000 years to ancient Sumer, the world's first urban civilization. Laments are present in both the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\", and laments continued to be sung in elegiacs accompanied by the aulos in classical and Hellenistic Greece. Elements of laments appear in \"Beowulf\", in the Hindu Vedas, and in ancient Near Eastern religious texts. They are included in the Mesopotamian city laments such as the Lament for Ur and the Jewish Tanakh, (which would later become the Christian Old Testament).\n\nIn many oral traditions, both early and modern, the lament has been a genre usually performed by women: Batya Weinbaum made a case for the spontaneous lament of women chanters in the creation of the oral tradition that resulted in the \"Iliad\" The material of lament, the \"sound of trauma\" is as much an element in the Book of Job as in the genre of pastoral elegy, such as Shelley's \"Adonais\" or Matthew Arnold's \"Thyrsis\".\n\nThe Book of Lamentations or \"Lamentations of Jeremiah\" figures in the Old Testament. The \"Lamentation of Christ\" (under many closely variant terms) is a common subject from the \"Life of Christ\" in art, showing his dead body being mourned after the Crucifixion.\n\nA Lament in The Book of Lamentations or in the Psalms (in the particular Lament/Complaint Psalms of the Tanakh, may be looked at as \"a cry of need in a context of crisis when Israel lacks the resources to fend for itself.\" Another way of looking at it is all the more basic: laments simply being \"appeals for divine help in distress\". These laments, too, often have a set format: an address to God, description of the suffering/anguish which one seeks relief, a petition for help and deliverance, a curse towards one's enemies, an expression of the belief of ones innocence or a confession of the lack thereof, a vow corresponding to an expected divine response, and lastly, a song of thanksgiving. Examples of a general format of this, both in the individual and communal laments, can be seen in Psalm 3 and Psalm 44 respectively.\n\nThe \"Lament of Edward II\", if it is actually written by Edward II of England, is the sole surviving composition of his.\n\nA heroine's lament is a conventional fixture of baroque opera seria, accompanied usually by strings alone, in descending tetrachords. Because of their plangent cantabile melodic lines, evocatively free, non-strophic construction and adagio pace, operatic laments have remained vividly memorable soprano or mezzo-soprano arias even when separated from the emotional pathos of their operatic contexts. An early example is Ariadne's \"Lasciatemi morire\", which is the only survivor of Claudio Monteverdi's lost \"Arianna\". Francesco Cavalli's operas extended the \"lamento\" formula, in numerous exemplars, of which Ciro's \"Negatemi respiri\" from \"Ciro\" is notable.\n\nOther examples include Dido's lament, \"When I am laid\" (Henry Purcell, \"Dido and Aeneas\"), \"Lascia ch'io pianga\" (Georg Friedrich Handel, \"Rinaldo\"), \"Caro mio ben\" (Tomasso or Giuseppe Giordani). The lament continued to represent a musico-dramatic high point. In the context of opera buffa, the Countess's lament, \"Dove sono\" comes as a surprise to the audience of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's \"Marriage of Figaro\", and in Gioachino Rossini's \"Barber of Seville\", Rosina's plaintive words at her apparent abandonment are followed, not by the expected lament aria, but by a vivid orchestral interlude of storm music. The heroine's lament remained a fixture in romantic opera, and the Marschallin's monologue in Act I of \"Der Rosenkavalier\" can be understood as a penetrating psychological lament.\n\nThe purely instrumental lament is a common form in pìobaireachd music for the Scottish bagpipes. \"MacCrimmon's Lament\" dates to the Jacobite uprising of 1745. The tune is held to have been written by Donald Ban MacCrimmon, piper to the MacLeods of Dunvegan, who supported the Hanoverians. It is said that Donald Ban, who was killed at Moy in 1746, had an intimation that he would not return.\n\nA well-known Gaelic lullaby is \"Griogal Cridhe\" (\"Beloved Gregor\"). It was composed in 1570 after the execution of Gregor MacGregor by the Campbells. The grief-stricken widow, Marion Campbell, describes what happened as she sings to her child.\n\n\"Cumhadh na Cloinne\" (Lament for the Children) was composed by Padruig Mór MacCrimmon in the early 1650s. It is generally held to be based on the loss of seven of MacCrimmon's eight sons to an unknown illness, possibly brought to Skye by a trading vessel. Author Bridget MacKenzie, in \"Piping Traditions of Argyll\", suggests that it refers to the slaughter of the MacLeod's fighting Cromwell's forces at the Battle of Worcester. It may have been inspired by both.\n\nOther Scottish laments include \"Lowlands Away\", \"MacPherson's Rant\", and \"Hector the Hero\".\n\nThere is a short, free musical form appearing in the Baroque and then again in the Romantic periods, called a lament. It is typically a set of harmonic variations in homophonic texture, wherein the bass descends through a tetrachord, usually one suggesting a minor mode.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41164068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41164068", "title": "Langford Wellman Colley-Priest", "text": "Langford Wellman Colley-Priest\n\nLangford Wellman Colley-Priest MM (September 1890 – 11/12 February 1928) was an Australian stretcher bearer during the First World War for the 8th Field Ambulance. He was awarded the Military Medal for conspicuous gallantry on the Western Front in 1917. He survived the war but later drowned in 1928, and his body is believed to have been eaten by a shark.\n\nColley-Priest was born in Glebe, New South Wales, in September 1890 to George and Rose Colley-Priest. Prior to his embarkation for Egypt and deployment on the Western Front he resided with his parents in Neutral Bay and worked as a warehouseman. Colley-Priest was an Anglican.\n\nColley-Priest enlisted in the 8th Field Ambulance, part of the 8th Infantry Brigade of the Australian Imperial Force, on 19 May 1915 and embarked aboard the HMAT Ascanius on 9 November, bound for Egypt and the Western Front. While serving, he was deployed at the Somme, Racquinghem, Polygon Wood, Messines, Villers-Bretonneux and Mont Saint-Quentin. In 1917, Colley-Priest was awarded the Military Medal. The recommendation for the award noted that he displayed:\n\nColley-Priest returned to Australian in 1919, was discharged on 3 August and awarded the 1914–15 Star, British War Medal and Victory Medal. for his war service. He later wrote the official history of his unit. Notable for its first-hand accounts of the front from the perspective of medical staff, he sold his war diary to the State Library of New South Wales in 1919 as part of their \"European War Collecting Project\".\nColley-Priest went swimming on either 11 or 12 February 1928, at Balmoral Beach, Sydney and was reported as missing on 13 February. On 14 February, a search team comprising the Balmoral local police and the New South Wales Water police were unable to find any signs of Colley-Priest. After the police search, a man observed a floating body in the distance and alerted the police to its presence. However, as the police approached the body a \"huge object heaved out of the sea, grabbed the body, and disappeared.\" Newspapers at the time suggested suicide and that the body had been eaten by a shark. On 27 February, an arm washed up on the beach near Dobroyd Point and was assumed to be Colley-Priest's. A suitcase with his clothes and a note stating \"Colley-Priest gone mad\" were found on Balmoral Wharf. Members of the Mosman and water police retrieved a portion of a shirt believed to have been worn by Colley-Priest.\n\n"}
{"id": "1628191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1628191", "title": "Leader-1", "text": "Leader-1\n\nLeader-1 is the name of several fictional characters from the Go-Bots, Robo Machines and Transformers toy lines in 1983. The original Leader-1 was voiced by Lou Richards in the animated \"Challenge of the Gobots\" series. Since then Hasbro acquired legal rights to the name and has used it for a Mini-Con.\n\nIn the animated series Challenge of the GoBots, Leader-1 is the leader of the Guardians. He is a brave leader who cares deeply about his people. He believes not one person should be in charge. He supports the democratic system of the Guardians. This led his former friend, Cy-Kill, to break away from the Guardians. He took command of the evil Renegades and became Leader-1's worst enemy.\n\nLeader-1 can fly, project energy blasts, and project a force field (which rapidly drains his power reserves). He has been known to use Guardian power suits that increases his speed and strength.\n\nLeader-1 appeared in \"Challenge of the GoBots\" episode #8, \"Time Wars.\"\n\nIn episode #14 \"Ultra Zod\" Leader-1 dons a Power Suit and helps form the Power Warrior Courageous, which defeats Ultra Zod.\n\nIn episode #23 \"Doppelganger\" Cy-Kill, Cop-Tur, Crasher and Snoop attacked Leader-1, Turbo, Scooter and Small Foot. Crasher wounded Small Foot. After attaining recordings of the Guardians, the Renegades retreated. Using the recordings Cy-Kill had Herr Fiend program robot duplicates of the Guardians. When demonstrating the Space Bender weapon to Unicom, Leader-1 learned that the Renegades were attacking Washington. The Renegades ambushed Leader-1 and replaced him with his duplicate. Leading the Command Center back to GoBotron, and getting rid of Scooter and Small Foot, the Renegades then released duplicates of Path Finder, Rest-Q, Van Guard and Turbo. Small Foot and Scooter were able to capture the Turbo duplicate and learn where their friends were being held. Cy-Kill then replaced Good Night. Using the duplicate Turbo, the Guardians infiltrated the Renegade base, freed the captured Guardians and escaped from Spoons and Fitor. Although blocked by the Renegades, Scooter used a hologram of Zod to make the Renegades flee. Making it back to GoBotron the Guardians were attacked by the Guardian duplicates. The real Guardians were able to defeat their duplicates with the aid of the real Zeemon, Hans-Cuff and Rest-Q. Cy-Kill then arrived in Thrustor with more duplicates, but Small Foot was able to stop with robots using the Space Bender, which would fuse their robot brains.\n\nIn the episode #24 \"Scooter Enhanced\" Scooter and Small Foot joined Nick and A.J. to watch a car stunt show which was attacked by Crasher, BuggyMan and Fly Trap. Small Foot fought Buggyman and defeated him, but the Renegades regained the upper hand until the Guardians were rescued by Leader-1 and Turbo who arrived in Power Suits. Cy-Kill vowed to gain Power Suits for the Renegades. Scooter decided he needed more firepower, so he had Baron Von Joy remove his damaged holo projector in favor of a blaster unit. Screw Head, Bad Boy and Cop-Tur were sent to attack Unicom bases and distract the Guardians while Cy-Kill, Crasher and Scorp attempted to take the suits from the Guardian Command Center. Small Foot and Scooter were able to delay the Renegades until Leader-1 and Turbo returned to chase away the Renegades. Realizing he was a better Guardian with his holo projector, Scooter had it reinstalled.\n\nIn episode #25, \"Tarnished Image\" Doctor Go creates a device that allows the Renegades to appear like Guardians. Cy-Kill, Crasher and Cop-Tur disguise themselves as Leader-1, Scooter and Turbo and go on a rampage on Earth while the real Guardians are sent on a fake rescue mission. When the Guardians return they are banished from Earth by the humans. The Guardians are eventually able to prove the Renegades staged the attacks, chase them off and capture Doctor Go.\n\nLeader-1 appears in \"Auto-Madic\" episode #28, where he dons a Power Suit and helped form the Power Warrior Courageous, which defeats Puzzler.\n\nLeader-1 appeared in \"Return to GoBotron\" episode #45. He was given one of the Power Suits by the Last Engineer, which featured enhanced speed and strength. He combined with the other suits and the Last Engineer's ship to form the Power Warrior Courageous and defeat a fleet of Renegade Thrustors.\n\nLeader-1 appeared in episode #46, \"Destroy All Guardians\", where he helped form the Power Warrior Courageous to stop a group of cloned and mutated prehistoric reptiles from attacking Japan.\n\nLeader-1 lead the Guardian Gobot forces who aided the Rock Lord Boulder on the planet Cordax.\n\nLeader-1 appeared in the story \"Scooter's Mighty Magnet.\"\n\nLeader-1 appears among the group investigating the cataclysm destroying their universe in Fun Publications story \"Withered Hope\".\n\nLeader-1 was the playable character and clones of were among the cast in the video game \"Challenge of the Gobots\" for the Sinclair, Amstrad and Commodore 64.\n\nLeader-1 appeared in the Eagle Comics story \"The Robo Machines\". He is a member of the Security Force Robo Machines.\n\nLeader-1 was parodied in the CollegeHumor animated sketch \"Transformers Go Hollywood\". In the sketch, Optimus Prime and Megatron talk about their live-action film's success at a cafe when they are met by Leader-1, who works as a waiter in the cafe. Leader-1 is heavily ridiculed by Prime and Megatron as he attempts to give them the script to his proposed film project. He rushes to the restroom and talks to Johnny 5 before locking himself in a toilet stall to cry over his insults.\n\nLeader-1 has appeared in the animated comedy series \"Robot Chicken\".\n\n\n\n\n\nWhen Hasbro bought out Tonka, they assumed ownership of the GoBots character names. Megatron's Mini-Con in was named Leader-1 (Barrel in Japan). This character has no connection to the GoBot Leader-1. Leader-1 was later recolored into Clench (Spark Barrel) as a partner to Armada Galvatron, then into Caliburn as a partner to Megazarak.\n\nLeader-1 has two different official mottos. The first comes from his biography page in Dreamwave comics, and the second from his biography page in the \"Transformers: Armada Official Guidebook\".\n\nBio: [From the Troop Assessment Files of Megatron, Decepticon Leader] It's quite laughable, really. In the very core of his spark, Leader-1 truly believes that-somehow, some way-he'll eventually become a leader in fact and not just name. At first, he tried to ingratiate himself with me, doing everything from suggesting battle tactics on the field to helping keep the other Mini-Cons in line in order to win my favor. When it became clear that this behavior wouldn't convince me to let him assume a station of command, he resorted to open acts of treachery against me...I still haven't forgotten his homicidal insubordination on the Moon. Yet, his tenacity and ingenuity occasionally impress me; in these respects, he is far superior to the average Mini-Con. But that changes nothing. I will never allow a lowly Mini-Con to exert any control over my operations or me; they are tools to be manipulated, nothing more. For Leader-1 to believe he can be something more than that, to think for one astrosecond that he could ever stand with me as an equal, is ridiculous and insulting beyond words. I will dash his dreams at every turn until he understands his place...if he doesn't, then he will be discarded and replaced.\n\nWeapons and Abilities: Although I'll never tell the little scraplet this, his abilities have proven valuable to me. Leader-1 is a surprisingly intelligent and tactically inclined Mini-Con; had he the fortune to be created a Decepticon instead of a Mini-Con, he would've made an excellent warrior. In addition to his mobile cannon mode, he can also transform into a powerful handgun for my use.\n\nWeaknesses: Leader-1 gives himself more credit than he deserves. Although he's clever, his plans are too grandiose to be achieved by just him. After all, he's only a Mini-Con.\n\nIn \"Balancing Act\" Leader-1 appeared among the rebel Mini-Con forces who sided with Megatron and attempted to sabotage the Mini-Con evacuation from one of Cybertron's moons.\n\nLeader-1 appeared among the Mini-Cons in issue #18 of the \"Transformers: Armada\" comic book who aided Over-Run using the Mini-Con Matrix in the defeat of Unicron.\n\n\nLeader-1 is one of the Autobots under the command of the evil dictator Optimus Prime in the \"Shattered Glass\" story. He was on guard duty when he was taken down by Rampage.\n"}
{"id": "47698732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47698732", "title": "Li Quan (wildlife conservationist)", "text": "Li Quan (wildlife conservationist)\n\nLi Quan (全莉) is a Beijing-born tiger and wildlife conservationist who lives in London. She is credited with the concept of rewilding in the promotion of tiger conservation. This ensures zoo-born tigers develop hunting and other survival skills in a controlled natural environment prior to their return to the wild.\n\nShe initiated the world’s first such experiment by rewilding South China tigers in collaboration with the State Forestry Administration of China at the Laohu Valley Reserve in South Africa. The concept was initially controversial, but it is now widely accepted as a viable strategy for wildlife conservation by many mainstream wildlife organizations including the World Wide Fund for Nature.\n\nQuan has founded several charities related to tiger and wildlife conservation. She is now a director of China Tiger Revival. Prior to devoting herself to wildlife conservation she was global head of licensing at the fashion house Gucci. She is a graduate of Beijing University, and holds a dual MBA/MA degree from the Wharton Business School and the Lauder Institute at the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nShe is the author of two books, \"Rewilded, Saving the South China Tiger\" (bilingual, English and Chinese), and \"Diary of the South China Tiger\" (Chinese). She also authored the South China Tiger Rewilding Guidelines for the Wildlife R&D Centre of the State Forestry Administration of China: http://tigerliquan.blogspot.com/2012/07/south-china-tiger-rewilding-guidelines.html \n"}
{"id": "56299797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56299797", "title": "List of organisms named after the Harry Potter series", "text": "List of organisms named after the Harry Potter series\n\nNewly created taxonomic names in biological nomenclature often reflect the discoverer's interests or honour those the discoverer holds in esteem. This is a list of real organisms with scientific names chosen to reference the fictional \"Harry Potter\" series by J.K. Rowling. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37660", "title": "List of parasitic organisms", "text": "List of parasitic organisms\n\nThis is an \"incomplete list\" of organisms that are true parasites upon other organisms.\n\n\nThese can be categorized into three groups; cestodes, nematodes and trematodes. Examples include:\n\n\n\n\n\nMonogeneans are flatworms, generally ectoparasites on fish.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53307618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53307618", "title": "Lucius Caecilicus Minutianus Appuleius", "text": "Lucius Caecilicus Minutianus Appuleius\n\nLucius Caecilicus Minutianus Appuleius was a writer of ancient Rome whose surviving works are about grammar. He was commonly acknowledged until the 19th century to be the author of a work \"de Orthographia\", of which considerable fragments were first published by Italian Cardinal and philologist Angelo Mai.\n\nThey were republished by Friedrich Gotthilf Osann, with two other grammatical works, \"de Nota Aspirationis\" and \"de Diphthongis\", which also bear the name of Appuleius. Danish philologist Johan Nicolai Madvig showed that the treatise \"de Orthographia\" was actually the work of a literary impostor of the fifteenth century. The two other grammatical treatises above mentioned were probably written in the tenth century.\n"}
{"id": "780977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=780977", "title": "Maria Leopoldina of Austria", "text": "Maria Leopoldina of Austria\n\nDona Maria Leopoldina of Austria (22 January 1797 – 11 December 1826) was an archduchess of Austria, Empress consort of Brazil and Queen consort of Portugal.\n\nShe was born \"Caroline Josepha Leopoldine Franziska Ferdinanda of Habsburg-Lorraine\" in Vienna, Austria, the daughter of Holy Roman Emperor Francis II, and his second wife, Maria Teresa of Naples and Sicily. Among her many siblings were Emperor Ferdinand I of Austria and Marie Louise, Duchess of Parma, the wife of Napoleon Bonaparte.\n\nLeopoldina was born on 22 January 1797 in Schönbrunn Palace, in Vienna, Archduchy of Austria. She was given the name Caroline Josepha Leopoldine Franziska Ferdinanda, according to her biographer Carlos H. Oberacker, and confirmed by Bettina Kann in her work \"Cartas de uma Imperatriz\", who mentioned a contemporary source: the Austrian newspaper \"Wiener Zeitung\" of 25 January 1797, who gave the news of the birth of the Archduchess three days before with her full name. According to Oberacker, the name \"Maria\" wasn't present in the preserved baptismal record of the Archduchess, and she began to use it only during her journey to Brazil, where she began to be named Maria Leopoldina in all documents, including the Constitutional oath of 1822. According to another theory presented by Oberacker, the Archduchess probably began to use the name \"Maria\" due to her great devotion to the Virgin Mary and because all her sisters-in-law used this name.\n\nShe was raised in accordance with the educational principles laid down by her grandfather, Emperor Leopold II. Among these was the habit of exercising her handwriting by writing the following text:\nIn addition, she and her sisters were taught to speak French and Latin. They were also educated in drawing, piano, riding and hunting. Her mother died when she was ten years old and her father went on to remarry Maria Ludovika of Austria-Este. Her late mother was a soprano and Leopoldina had the chance of meeting Johann Wolfgang von Goethe in 1810 and 1812, when she went to Carlsbad with her stepmother. Her passions included natural sciences, especially botany and mineralogy. She was formed according to the three Habsburg principles: discipline, piety and a sense of duty.\n\nAlthough Maria Theresa of Naples and Sicily was her birth mother, Leopoldina always considered Maria Ludovika d'Este, her stepmother, to be her mother and she grew up with Ludovika as her \"spiritual mother\".\n\nOn 24 September 1816 it was announced by Leopoldina's father that Pedro of Braganza wished to take a Habsburg princess as his wife. Klemens von Metternich suggested that it should be Leopoldina to go get married, as it was \"her turn\" to become a wife. Two ships were prepared and in April 1817 scientists, painters, gardeners and a taxidermist, all with assistants, travelled to Rio de Janeiro ahead of Leopoldina, whom, in the meantime, studied the history and geography of her future home and learned Portuguese. During these weeks Leopoldina compiled and wrote a vade mecum, a unique document the like of which has never been produced by any other Habsburg princess.\n\nOn 13 May 1817 Leopoldina was married to Dom Pedro \"per procuram\" (by proxy) in Vienna. At the ceremony the bridegroom was represented by Leopoldina’s uncle, Archduke Charles. Embarkation took place in Livorno on 13 August 1817 among much celebration, and after an adventure-filled voyage lasting 81 days, Leopoldina arrived in Rio de Janeiro on 5 November and finally met her husband.\n\nFrom a distance Pedro initially appeared to Leopoldina to be a perfect, well-educated gentleman, but the reality was very different. Dom Pedro was a year younger than Leopoldina and sadly rarely measured up to the descriptions given by the matchmakers. His temperament was impulsive and choleric, and his education but modest. Even spoken communication between the young married couple proved difficult, as Pedro spoke very little French and his Portuguese could only be described as vulgar.\n\nIn keeping with Portuguese tradition, at the age of eighteen Pedro of Braganza not only had a string of amorous adventures behind him and was principally interested in horse racing and love affairs, but in 1817 (the year of his marriage to Leopoldina) he was living as if in wedlock with French dancer Noemie Thierry, who was finally removed from the court by his father a month after Leopoldina's arrival in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nThe young married couple took up residence in six relatively small rooms in the Palace of São Cristóvão. The inner courtyard and path to the stables were unpaved and the tropical rainfall quickly turned everything to mud. There were insects everywhere, including in their clothing, for the uniforms and court regalia made of velvet and plush rotted and turned mouldy in the heat and humidity.\n\nOn 25 April 1821, the court returned to Portugal. A fleet of 11 ships took the king, the court, the royal house and the royal treasury, and only Prince Pedro remained in Brazil as regent of the country, with ample powers counterbalanced by a regency council. At first Pedro was incapable of dominating the chaos: the situation was dominated by the Portuguese troops, in anarchic conditions. The opposition between Portuguese and Brazilians became increasingly evident. It is clear from Leopoldina's correspondence that she has warmly espoused the cause of the Brazilian people and even desired the independence of the country and is therefore loved and venerated by the Brazilians.\n\nAccording to Ezekiel Ramirez, below, the signs of a nascent Brazilian unit as an independent nation in the southern provinces were visible, but the north supported the Lisbon Cortes and called for regional independence. If the Prince Regent had left the country at that moment, Brazil would be lost to Portugal because the courts of Lisbon repeated the same error that led the Spanish courts to lose the colonies, seeking to establish direct contacts with each province in particular.\n\nIn Rio, thousands of signatures collected required the regents to remain in Brazil. \"José Bonifácio de Andrada e Silva's courageous attitude toward Portuguese arrogance greatly encouraged the aspirations for unity that existed in the southern provinces, especially in São Paulo. A highly educated men led this movement.\" After Fico's day, 9 January 1822, a new ministry was organized under the leadership of Jose Bonifacio, \"strictly monarchist\", and the Prince Royal soon won the trust of the people. On 15 February 1822 the Portuguese troops left Rio, and their departure represented the dissolution of the ties between Brazil and the metropolis. The prince was triumphantly received in Minas Gerais.\n\nWhen her husband, prince regent, traveled to São Paulo in August 1822 to pacify politics (which culminated in the proclamation of Brazil's independence in September), Leopoldina exercised the regency. Great was his influence in the process of independence. The Brazilians were already aware that Portugal intended to call Pedro back, relegating Brazil again to the status of a simple colony rather than a kingdom united to that of Portugal. There were fears that a civil war would separate the Province of São Paulo from the rest of Brazil. Pedro gave power to Leopoldina on 13 August 1822, appointing her head of the Council of State and Acting Princess Regent of the Kingdom of Brazil, with legal powers to govern the country during his absence and set out to appease São Paulo.\nThe Princess received news that Portugal was preparing action against Brazil and, without time to wait for Pedro's return, Leopoldina, advised by Jose Bonifacio de Andrada e Silva, and using his attributes as interim head of government, met in the morning of 2 September 1822, with the Council of State, signing the decree of Independence, declaring Brazil separate from Portugal. The Princess sends Pedro a letter, along with another letter from José Bonifácio, as well as comments from Portugal criticizing the actions of her husband and King João VI. It demands that Pedro proclaim the Independence of Brazil and, in the letter, warns: \"The pommel is ripe, pick it up already, or it will rot.\"\n\nThe officer arrived at the prince on 7 September 1822. Leopoldina had also sent papers received from Lisbon, and comments from Antônio Carlos Ribeiro de Andrada, deputy to the courts, for which the Prince-Regent learned of criticism of him in the metropolis. The position of John VI and all his ministry, dominated by the courts, was difficult.\n\nWhile awaiting the return of Pedro, Leopoldina, the interim ruler of an already independent Brazil, idealized the flag of Brazil, in which she mixed the green of the House of Braganza and the golden yellow of the House of Habsburg. Other authors say that Jean-Baptiste Debret, the French artist who designed what he saw in Brazil in the 1820s, was the author of the national pavilion that replaced that of the old Portuguese court, symbol of the oppression of the old regime. Debret is the design of the beautiful imperial flag, in collaboration with Jose Bonifacio de Andrada e Silva, in which the green rectangle of the Braganza represented the forests and the yellow rhombus, color of the Habsburg-Lorraine dynasty, represented the gold.\n\nMaria Leopoldina became Brazil's first empress consort. She also played an important role in the process of issuing a Declaration of Independence. On 2 September 1822, a new decree with demands from Lisbon arrived in Rio de Janeiro, while Prince Pedro was in São Paulo. Leopoldina, advised by José Bonifácio, and using her power as Princess Regent, met on 2 September 1822 with the Council of Ministers. She decided to send her husband the news along with a letter advising him to declare Brazil's independence and warned him, \"The fruit is ready, it's time to harvest.\" Prince Pedro declared the country's independence upon receiving the letter on 7 September 1822.\n\nWhen his father, João VI, died on 10 March 1826, Pedro inherited the Portuguese throne as King Pedro IV, while remaining Emperor Pedro I of Brazil. Maria Leopoldina thus became both Empress consort of Brazil and Queen consort of Portugal. However, two months later, Pedro was forced to give up the Portuguese throne to their seven-year-old daughter Maria.\n\nAt the end of November 1826, Pedro traveled to Cisplatina (now Uruguay) to join his soldiers. To mark the occasion there was a large farewell reception on 20 November 1826, and Pedro demanded that both women, Maria Leopoldina and his official mistress Domitila de Castro, Marchioness of Santos, appear together before the ecclesiastical and diplomatic dignitaries and receive his kiss on the hand. With the fulfillment of this demand, Maria Leopoldina would have officially recognized her husband's mistress, and for this she refused to appear at the reception. This caused a bitter argument with Pedro, who departed with no resolution to the situation.\n\nShortly after, Maria Leopoldina became ill, had spells of fever, became delirious at times, and then suffered a miscarriage on 2 December 1826. She died eight days later, on 11 December, five weeks before\nher thirtieth birthday. She was buried on 14 December 1826 in Rio de Janeiro, in the church of the\nAjuda Convent.\n\n\n\nMaria Leopoldina was portrayed by Letícia Colin in the 2017 telenovela Novo Mundo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2844938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2844938", "title": "Mark Zuckerberg", "text": "Mark Zuckerberg\n\nMark Elliot Zuckerberg (; born May 14, 1984) is an American technology entrepreneur and philanthropist. He is known for co-founding and leading Facebook as its chairman and chief executive officer.\n\nBorn in White Plains, New York, Zuckerberg attended Harvard University, where he launched Facebook from his dormitory room on February 4, 2004, with college roommates Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes. Originally launched to select college campuses, the site expanded rapidly and eventually beyond colleges, reaching one billion users by 2012. Zuckerberg took the company public in May 2012 with majority shares. His net worth is estimated to be US$55.0 billion as of November 30, 2018, declining over the last year with Facebook stock as a whole.\n\nSince 2010, \"Time\" magazine has named Zuckerberg among the 100 wealthiest and most influential people in the world as a part of its Person of the Year award. In December 2016, Zuckerberg was ranked 10th on \"Forbes\" list of The World's Most Powerful People.\n\nZuckerberg was born on May 14, 1984, in White Plains, New York. His parents are Karen (née Kempner), a psychiatrist, and Edward Zuckerberg, a dentist. He and his three sisters, Randi, Donna and Arielle, were brought up in Dobbs Ferry, New York, a small Westchester County village about 21 miles north of Midtown Manhattan. Zuckerberg was raised in a Reform Jewish household, with ancestors hailing from Germany, Austria and Poland. He had a \"Star Wars\" themed Bar Mitzvah when he turned 13 and once \"questioned things\" before deciding \"religion is very important\".\n\nAt Ardsley High School, Zuckerberg excelled in classes. He transferred to the private school Phillips Exeter Academy, in New Hampshire, in his junior year, where he won prizes in science (mathematics, astronomy, and physics) and classical studies. In his youth, he also attended the Johns Hopkins Center for Talented Youth summer camp. On his college application, Zuckerberg stated that he could read and write French, Hebrew, Latin, and ancient Greek. He was captain of the fencing team.\n\nZuckerberg began using computers and writing software in middle school. His father taught him Atari BASIC Programming in the 1990s, and later hired software developer David Newman to tutor him privately. Zuckerberg took a graduate course in the subject at Mercy College near his home while still in high school. In one program, since his father's dental practice was operated from their home, he built a software program he called \"ZuckNet\" that allowed all the computers between the house and dental office to communicate with each other. It is considered a \"primitive\" version of AOL's Instant Messenger, which came out the following year.\n\nAccording to writer Jose Antonio Vargas, \"some kids played computer games. Mark created them.\" Zuckerberg himself recalls this period: \"I had a bunch of friends who were artists. They'd come over, draw stuff, and I'd build a game out of it.\" Vargas notes that Zuckerberg was not, however, a typical \"geek-klutz\", as he later became captain of his prep school fencing team and earned a classics diploma. Napster co-founder Sean Parker, a close friend, notes that Zuckerberg was \"really into Greek odysseys and all that stuff\", recalling how he once quoted lines from the Roman epic poem \"Aeneid\", by Virgil, during a Facebook product conference.\n\nDuring Zuckerberg's high school years, he worked under the company name Intelligent Media Group to build a music player called the Synapse Media Player. The device used machine learning to learn the user's listening habits, which was posted to \"Slashdot\" and received a rating of 3 out of 5 from \"PC Magazine\".\n\nVargas noted that by the time Zuckerberg began classes at Harvard, he had already achieved a \"reputation as a programming prodigy\". He studied psychology and computer science and belonged to Alpha Epsilon Pi and Kirkland House. In his sophomore year, he wrote a program that he called CourseMatch, which allowed users to make class selection decisions based on the choices of other students and also to help them form study groups. A short time later, he created a different program he initially called Facemash that let students select the best looking person from a choice of photos. According to Arie Hasit, Zuckerberg's roommate at the time, \"he built the site for fun\". Hasit explains:\n\nWe had books called Face Books, which included the names and pictures of everyone who lived in the student dorms. At first, he built a site and placed two pictures, or pictures of two males and two females. Visitors to the site had to choose who was \"hotter\" and according to the votes there would be a ranking.\n\nThe site went up over a weekend, but by Monday morning, the college shut it down, because its popularity had overwhelmed one of Harvard's network switches and prevented students from accessing the Internet. In addition, many students complained that their photos were being used without permission. Zuckerberg apologized publicly, and the student paper ran articles stating that his site was \"completely improper.\"\n\nThe following semester, in January 2004, Zuckerberg began writing code for a new Web site. On February 4, 2004, Zuckerberg launched \"Thefacebook\", originally located at thefacebook.com.\n\nSix days after the site launched, three Harvard seniors, Cameron Winklevoss, Tyler Winklevoss, and Divya Narendra, accused Zuckerberg of intentionally misleading them into believing he would help them build a social network called HarvardConnection.com, while he was instead using their ideas to build a competing product. The three complained to \"The Harvard Crimson\", and the newspaper began an investigation in response.\n\nFollowing the official launch of the Facebook social media platform, the three filed a lawsuit against Zuckerberg that resulted in a settlement. The agreed settlement was for 1.2 million Facebook shares.\n\nZuckerberg dropped out of Harvard in his sophomore year in order to complete his project. In January 2014, he recalled:\n\nI remember really vividly, you know, having pizza with my friends a day or two after—I opened up the first version of Facebook at the time I thought, \"You know, someone needs to build a service like this for the world.\" But I just never thought that we'd be the ones to help do it. And I think a lot of what it comes down to is we just cared more.\n\nOn May 28, 2017, Zuckerberg received an honorary degree from Harvard.\n\nOn February 4, 2004, Zuckerberg launched Facebook from his Harvard dormitory room. An earlier inspiration for Facebook may have come from Phillips Exeter Academy, the prep school from which Zuckerberg graduated in 2002. It published its own student directory, \"The Photo Address Book\", which students referred to as \"The Facebook\". Such photo directories were an important part of the student social experience at many private schools. With them, students were able to list attributes such as their class years, their friends, and their telephone numbers.\n\nOnce at college, Zuckerberg's Facebook started off as just a \"Harvard thing\" until Zuckerberg decided to spread it to other schools, enlisting the help of roommate Dustin Moskovitz. They began with Columbia University, New York University, Stanford, Dartmouth, Cornell, University of Pennsylvania, Brown, and Yale. Samyr Laine, a triple jumper representing Haiti at the 2012 Summer Olympics, shared a room with Zuckerberg during Facebook's founding. \"Mark was clearly on to great things,\" said Laine, who was Facebook's fourteenth user.\n\nZuckerberg, Moskovitz and some friends moved to Palo Alto, California in Silicon Valley where they leased a small house that served as an office. Over the summer, Zuckerberg met Peter Thiel, who invested in the company. They got their first office in mid-2004. According to Zuckerberg, the group planned to return to Harvard, but eventually decided to remain in California. They had already turned down offers by major corporations to buy the company. In an interview in 2007, Zuckerberg explained his reasoning: \"It's not because of the amount of money. For me and my colleagues, the most important thing is that we create an open information flow for people. Having media corporations owned by conglomerates is just not an attractive idea to me.\"\n\nHe restated these goals to \"Wired\" magazine in 2010: \"The thing I really care about is the mission, making the world open.\" Earlier, in April 2009, Zuckerberg sought the advice of former Netscape CFO Peter Currie about financing strategies for Facebook. On July 21, 2010, Zuckerberg reported that the company reached the 500 million-user mark. When asked whether Facebook could earn more income from advertising as a result of its phenomenal growth, he explained: \n\nI guess we could ... If you look at how much of our page is taken up with ads compared to the average search query. The average for us is a little less than 10 percent of the pages and the average for search is about 20 percent taken up with ads ... That's the simplest thing we could do. But we aren't like that. We make enough money. Right, I mean, we are keeping things running; we are growing at the rate we want to.\n\nIn 2010, Steven Levy, who wrote the 1984 book \"\", wrote that Zuckerberg \"clearly thinks of himself as a hacker\". Zuckerberg said that \"it's OK to break things\" \"to make them better\". Facebook instituted \"hackathons\" held every six to eight weeks where participants would have one night to conceive of and complete a project. The company provided music, food, and beer at the hackathons, and many Facebook staff members, including Zuckerberg, regularly attended. \"The idea is that you can build something really good in a night\", Zuckerberg told Levy. \"And that's part of the personality of Facebook now ... It's definitely very core to my personality.\"\n\n\"Vanity Fair\" magazine named Zuckerberg number 1 on its 2010 list of the Top 100 \"most influential people of the Information Age\". Zuckerberg ranked number 23 on the \"Vanity Fair\" 100 list in 2009. In 2010, Zuckerberg was chosen as number 16 in \"New Statesman\"s annual survey of the world's 50 most influential figures.\n\nIn a 2011 interview with PBS shortly after the death of Steve Jobs, Zuckerberg said that Jobs had advised him on how to create a management team at Facebook that was \"focused on building as high quality and good things as you are\".\nOn October 1, 2012, Zuckerberg visited Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev in Moscow to stimulate social media innovation in Russia and to boost Facebook's position in the Russian market. Russia's communications minister tweeted that Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev urged the social media giant's founder to abandon plans to lure away Russian programmers and instead consider opening a research center in Moscow. In 2012, Facebook had roughly 9 million users in Russia, while domestic clone VK had around 34 million. Rebecca Van Dyck, Facebook's head of consumer marketing, claimed that 85 million American Facebook users were exposed to the first day of the Home promotional campaign on April 6, 2013.\n\nOn August 19, 2013, \"The Washington Post\" reported that Zuckerberg's Facebook profile was hacked by an unemployed web developer.\n\nAt the 2013 TechCrunch Disrupt conference, held in September, Zuckerberg stated that he is working towards registering the 5 billion humans who were not connected to the Internet as of the conference on Facebook. Zuckerberg then explained that this is intertwined with the aim of the Internet.org project, whereby Facebook, with the support of other technology companies, seeks to increase the number of people connected to the internet.\n\nZuckerberg was the keynote speaker at the 2014 Mobile World Congress (MWC), held in Barcelona, Spain, in March 2014, which was attended by 75,000 delegates. Various media sources highlighted the connection between Facebook's focus on mobile technology and Zuckerberg's speech, claiming that mobile represents the future of the company. Zuckerberg's speech expands upon the goal that he raised at the TechCrunch conference in September 2013, whereby he is working towards expanding Internet coverage into developing countries.\n\nAlongside other American technology figures like Jeff Bezos and Tim Cook, Zuckerberg hosted visiting Chinese politician Lu Wei, known as the \"Internet czar\" for his influence in the enforcement of China's online policy, at Facebook's headquarters on December 8, 2014. The meeting occurred after Zuckerberg participated in a Q&A session at Tsinghua University in Beijing, China, on October 23, 2014, where he attempted to converse in Mandarin Chinese; although Facebook is banned in China, Zuckerberg is highly regarded among the people and was at the university to help fuel the nation's burgeoning entrepreneur sector.\n\nZuckerberg fielded questions during a live Q&A session at the company's headquarters in Menlo Park on December 11, 2014. The founder and CEO explained that he does not believe Facebook is a waste of time, because it facilitates social engagement, and participating in a public session was so that he could \"learn how to better serve the community\".\n\nZuckerberg receives a one-dollar salary as CEO of Facebook. In June 2016, \"Business Insider\" named Zuckerberg one of the \"Top 10 Business Visionaries Creating Value for the World\" along with Elon Musk and Sal Khan, due to the fact that he and his wife \"pledged to give away 99% of their wealth — which is estimated at $55.0 billion.\"\n\nA month after Zuckerberg launched Facebook in February 2004, i2hub, another campus-only service, created by Wayne Chang, was launched. i2hub focused on peer-to-peer file sharing. At the time, both i2hub and Facebook were gaining the attention of the press and growing rapidly in users and publicity. In August 2004, Zuckerberg, Andrew McCollum, Adam D'Angelo, and Sean Parker launched a competing peer-to-peer file sharing service called Wirehog, a precursor to Facebook Platform applications.\n\nOn May 24, 2007, Zuckerberg announced Facebook Platform, a development platform for programmers to create social applications within Facebook. Within weeks, many applications had been built and some already had millions of users. It grew to more than 800,000 developers around the world building applications for Facebook Platform.\n\nOn November 6, 2007, Zuckerberg announced Beacon, a social advertising system that enabled people to share information with their Facebook friends based on their browsing activities on other sites. For example, eBay sellers could let friends know automatically what they have for sale via the Facebook news feed as they listed items for sale. The program came under scrutiny because of privacy concerns from groups and individual users. Zuckerberg and Facebook failed to respond to the concerns quickly, and on December 5, 2007, Zuckerberg wrote a blog post on Facebook, taking responsibility for the concerns about Beacon and offering an easier way for users to opt out of the service.\n\nIn 2007, Zuckerberg was added to MIT Technology Review's TR35 list as one of the top 35 innovators in the world under the age of 35. On July 23, 2008, Zuckerberg announced Facebook Connect, a version of Facebook Platform for users.\n\nIn a public Facebook post, Zuckerberg launched the Internet.org project in late August 2013. He explained that the primary aim of the initiative is to provide Internet access to the five billion people who are not connected as of the launch date. Using a three-tier strategy, Internet.org will also create new jobs and open up new markets, according to Zuckerberg. He stated in his post:\n\nThe world economy is going through a massive transition right now. The knowledge economy is the future. By bringing everyone online, we'll not only improve billions of lives, but we'll also improve our own as we benefit from the ideas and productivity they contribute to the world. Giving everyone the opportunity to connect is the foundation for enabling the knowledge economy. It is not the only thing we need to do, but it's a fundamental and necessary step.\n\nTo stay proven on the efforts of bringing in the concept of net neutrality, Zuckerberg met Narendra Modi, Satya Nadella and Sundar Pichai at Silicon Valley, to discuss on how to effectively establish affordable internet access to the less developed countries. As a token of initiation, he changed his Facebook profile picture to extend his support to the Digital India to help the rural communities to stay connected to the internet.\n\nHarvard students Cameron Winklevoss, Tyler Winklevoss, and Divya Narendra accused Zuckerberg of intentionally making them believe he would help them build a social network called HarvardConnection.com (later called ConnectU). They filed a lawsuit in 2004, but it was dismissed on a technicality on March 28, 2007. It was refiled soon thereafter in federal court in Boston. Facebook countersued in regards to Social Butterfly, a project put out by The Winklevoss Chang Group, an alleged partnership between ConnectU and i2hub. On June 25, 2008, the case settled and Facebook agreed to transfer over 1.2 million common shares and pay $20 million in cash.\n\nIn November 2007, confidential court documents were posted on the website of \"02138\", a magazine that catered to Harvard alumni. They included Zuckerberg's Social Security number, his parents' home address, and his girlfriend's address. Facebook filed to have the documents removed, but the judge ruled in favor of \"02138\".\n\nA lawsuit filed by Eduardo Saverin against Facebook and Zuckerberg was settled out of court. Though terms of the settlement were sealed, the company affirmed Saverin's title as co-founder of Facebook. Saverin signed a non-disclosure contract after the settlement.\n\nIn June 2010, Pakistani Deputy Attorney General Muhammad Azhar Sidiqque launched a criminal investigation into Zuckerberg and Facebook co-founders Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes after a \"Draw Muhammad\" contest was hosted on Facebook. The investigation named the anonymous German woman who created the contest. Sidiqque asked the country's police to contact Interpol to have Zuckerberg and the three others arrested for blasphemy. On May 19, 2010, Facebook's website was temporarily blocked in Pakistan until Facebook removed the contest from its website at the end of May. Sidiqque also asked its UN representative to raise the issue with the United Nations General Assembly.\n\nIn June 2010, Paul Ceglia, the owner of a wood pellet fuel company in Allegany County, upstate New York, filed suit against Zuckerberg, claiming 84 percent ownership of Facebook and seeking monetary damages. According to Ceglia, he and Zuckerberg signed a contract on April 28, 2003, that an initial fee of $1,000 entitled Ceglia to 50% of the website's revenue, as well as an additional 1% interest in the business per day after January 1, 2004, until website completion. Zuckerberg was developing other projects at the time, among which was \"Facemash\", the predecessor of Facebook, but did not register the domain name \"thefacebook.com\" until January 1, 2004. Facebook management dismissed the lawsuit as \"completely frivolous\". Facebook spokesman Barry Schnitt told a reporter that Ceglia's counsel had unsuccessfully sought an out-of-court settlement.\n\nOn October 26, 2012, federal authorities arrested Ceglia, charging him with mail and wire fraud and of \"tampering with, destroying and fabricating evidence in a scheme to defraud the Facebook founder of billions of dollars.\" Ceglia is accused of fabricating emails to make it appear that he and Zuckerberg discussed details about an early version of Facebook, although after examining their emails, investigators found there was no mention of Facebook in them. Some law firms withdrew from the case before it was initiated and others after Ceglia's arrest.\n\nOn July 2, 2016, Israeli cabinet minister Gilad Erdan accused Zuckerberg of having some responsibility for deadly attacks by Palestinians against Israelis. According to him, the social network was not doing enough to ban posts to its platform that incite violence against Israelis. \"Some of the victims' blood is on Zuckerberg's hands\", Erdan said.\n\nIn January 2017, Zuckerberg filed eight \"quiet title and partition\" lawsuits against hundreds of native Hawaiians to purchase small tracts of land which they own. This land is contained within the 700 acres of land in the Hawaiian island of Kauai that Zuckerberg had purchased in 2014. When he learned that Hawaiian land ownership law differs from that of the other 49 states, he dropped the lawsuits.\n\nOn April 10 and April 11, 2018, Zuckerberg began testifying before the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation regarding the usage of personal data by Facebook in relation to the Facebook–Cambridge Analytica data breach. He has called the whole affair a breach of trust between Aleksandr Kogan, Cambridge Analytica, and Facebook. Zuckerberg has refused requests to appear to give evidence on the matter to a Parliamentary committee in the United Kingdom.\n\nA movie based on Zuckerberg and the founding years of Facebook, \"The Social Network\" was released on October 1, 2010, starring Jesse Eisenberg as Zuckerberg. After Zuckerberg was told about the film, he responded, \"I just wished that nobody made a movie of me while I was still alive.\" Also, after the film's script was leaked on the Internet and it was apparent that the film would not portray Zuckerberg in a wholly positive light, he stated that he wanted to establish himself as a \"good guy\". The film is based on the book \"The Accidental Billionaires\" by Ben Mezrich, which the book's publicist once described as \"big juicy fun\" rather than \"reportage\". The film's screenwriter Aaron Sorkin told \"New York\" magazine, \"I don't want my fidelity to be the truth; I want it to be storytelling\", adding, \"What is the big deal about accuracy purely for accuracy's sake, and can we not have the true be the enemy of the good?\"\n\nUpon winning the Golden Globe Award for Best Picture on January 16, 2011, producer Scott Rudin thanked Facebook and Zuckerberg \"for his willingness to allow us to use his life and work as a metaphor through which to tell a story about communication and the way we relate to each other.\" Sorkin, who won for Best Screenplay, retracted some of the impressions given in his script:\n\nOn January 29, 2011, Zuckerberg made a surprise guest appearance on \"Saturday Night Live\", which was being hosted by Jesse Eisenberg. They both said it was the first time they ever met. Eisenberg asked Zuckerberg, who had been critical of his portrayal by the film, what he thought of the movie. Zuckerberg replied, \"It was interesting.\" In a subsequent interview about their meeting, Eisenberg explains that he was \"nervous to meet him, because I had spent now, a year and a half thinking about him ...\" He adds, \"Mark has been so gracious about something that's really so uncomfortable ... The fact that he would do \"SNL\" and make fun of the situation is so sweet and so generous. It's the best possible way to handle something that, I think, could otherwise be very uncomfortable.\"\n\nJeff Jarvis, author of the book \"Public Parts\", interviewed Zuckerberg and believes Sorkin made up too much of the story. He states, \"That's what the internet is accused of doing, making stuff up, not caring about the facts.\"\n\nAccording to David Kirkpatrick, former technology editor at \"Fortune\" magazine and author of \"The Facebook Effect: The Inside Story of the Company That Is Connecting the World,\" (2011), \"the film is only \"40% true ... he is not snide and sarcastic in a cruel way, the way Zuckerberg is played in the movie.\" He says that \"a lot of the factual incidents are accurate, but many are distorted and the overall impression is false\", and concludes that primarily \"his motivations were to try and come up with a new way to share information on the Internet\".\n\nAlthough the film portrays Zuckerberg's creation of Facebook in order to elevate his stature after not getting into any of the elite final clubs at Harvard, Zuckerberg said he had no interest in joining the clubs. Kirkpatrick agrees that the impression implied by the film is \"false\". Karel Baloun, a former senior engineer at Facebook, notes that the \"image of Zuckerberg as a socially inept nerd is overstated ... It is fiction ...\" He likewise dismisses the film's assertion that he \"would deliberately betray a friend\".\n\nZuckerberg voiced himself on an episode of \"The Simpsons\" titled \"Loan-a Lisa\", which first aired on October 3, 2010. In the episode, Lisa Simpson and her friend Nelson encounter Zuckerberg at an entrepreneurs' convention. Zuckerberg tells Lisa that she does not need to graduate from college to be wildly successful, referencing Bill Gates and Richard Branson as examples.\n\nOn October 9, 2010, \"Saturday Night Live\" lampooned Zuckerberg and Facebook. Andy Samberg played Zuckerberg. The real Zuckerberg was reported to have been amused: \"I thought this was funny.\"\n\nStephen Colbert awarded a \"Medal of Fear\" to Zuckerberg at the Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear on October 30, 2010, \"because he values his privacy much more than he values yours\".\n\nZuckerberg appears in the climax of the documentary film \"Terms and Conditions May Apply\".\n\nZuckerberg was parodied in the \"South Park\" episode \"Franchise Prequel\".\n\nZuckerberg donated an undisclosed amount to Diaspora, an open-source personal Web server that implements a distributed social networking service. He called it a \"cool idea\".\n\nZuckerberg founded the Start-up: Education foundation. On September 22, 2010, it was reported that Zuckerberg had donated $100 million to Newark Public Schools, the public school system of Newark, New Jersey. Critics noted the timing of the donation as being close to the release of \"The Social Network\", which painted a somewhat negative portrait of Zuckerberg. Zuckerberg responded to the criticism, saying, \"The thing that I was most sensitive about with the movie timing was, I didn't want the press about \"The Social Network\" movie to get conflated with the Newark project. I was thinking about doing this anonymously just so that the two things could be kept separate.\" Newark Mayor Cory Booker stated that he and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie had to convince Zuckerberg's team not to make the donation anonymously. The money was largely wasted, according to journalist Dale Russakoff.\n\nOn December 9, 2010, Zuckerberg, Bill Gates, and investor Warren Buffett signed \"The Giving Pledge\", in which they promised to donate to charity at least half of their wealth over the course of time, and invited others among the wealthy to donate 50 percent or more of their wealth to charity.\n\nIn December 2012, Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan announced that over the course of their lives they would give the majority of their wealth to \"advancing human potential and promoting equality\" in the spirit of The Giving Pledge. On December 1, 2015, they announced they would eventually give 99 percent of their Facebook shares (worth about US$45 billion at the time) to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.\n\nOn December 19, 2013, Zuckerberg announced a donation of 18 million Facebook shares to the Silicon Valley Community Foundation, to be executed by the end of the month—based on Facebook's valuation as of then, the shares totaled $990 million in value. On December 31, 2013, the donation was recognized as the largest charitable gift on public record for 2013. \"The Chronicle of Philanthropy\" placed Zuckerberg and his wife at the top of the magazine's annual list of 50 most generous Americans for 2013, having donated roughly $1 billion to charity.\nIn October 2014, Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan donated US$25 million to combat the Ebola virus disease, specifically the West African Ebola virus epidemic. in 2016, the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative announced that it would give $600 million to Biohub a location in San Francisco's Mission Bay District near the University of California, San Francisco, to allow for easy interaction and collaboration between scientists at UCSF; University of California, Berkeley; and Stanford University.\n\nOn December 1, 2015, Zuckerberg and Chan announced the birth of their first daughter Max, and in an open letter to Max, they pledged to donate 99% of their Facebook shares, then valued at US$45 billion, to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, their new organization that will focus on health and education. The donation will not be given immediately, but over the course of their lives. Instead of forming a charitable corporation to donate the value of the stock to, as Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, Larry Page, Sergey Brin and other tech billionaires have done, Zuckerberg and Chan chose to use the structure of a limited liability company. This has drawn criticism from a number of journalists.\n\nChan and Zuckerberg also signed The Giving Pledge. On August 28, 2017, the couple announced the birth of their second daughter.\n\nIn 2002, Zuckerberg registered to vote in Westchester County, New York, where he grew up, but did not cast a ballot until November 2008. Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters Spokeswoman, Elma Rosas, told Bloomberg that Zuckerberg is listed as \"no preference\" on voter rolls, and he voted in at least two of the past three general elections, in 2008 and 2012.\n\nZuckerberg has never revealed his own political views: some news outlets consider him to be a conservative, while others consider him liberal.\n\nOn February 13, 2013, Zuckerberg hosted his first ever fundraising event for New Jersey Governor Chris Christie. Zuckerberg's particular interest on this occasion was education reform, and Christie's education reform work focused on teachers unions and the expansion of charter schools. Later that year, Zuckerberg hosted a campaign fundraiser for Newark mayor Cory Booker, who was running in the 2013 New Jersey special Senate election. In September 2010, with the support of Governor Chris Christie, Booker obtained a US$100 million pledge from Zuckerberg to Newark Public Schools. In December 2012, Zuckerberg donated 18 million shares to the Silicon Valley Community Foundation, a community organization that includes education in its list of grant-making areas.\nOn April 11, 2013, Zuckerberg led the launch of a 501(c)(4) lobbying group called FWD.us. The founders and contributors to the group were primarily Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and investors, and its president was Joe Green, a close friend of Zuckerberg. The goals of the group include immigration reform, improving the state of education in the United States, and enabling more technological breakthroughs that benefit the public, yet it has also been criticized for financing ads advocating a variety of oil and gas development initiatives, including drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the Keystone XL pipeline. In 2013, numerous liberal and progressive groups, such as The League of Conservation Voters, MoveOn.org, the Sierra Club, Democracy for America, CREDO, Daily Kos, 350.org, and Presente and Progressives United agreed to either pull their Facebook ad buys or not buy Facebook ads for at least two weeks, in protest of Zuckerberg ads funded by FWD.us that were in support of oil drilling and the Keystone XL pipeline, and in opposition to Obamacare among Republican United States senators who back immigration reform.\n\nA media report on June 20, 2013 revealed that Zuckerberg actively engaged with Facebook users on his own profile page after the online publication of a FWD.us video. In response to a claim that the FWD.us organization is \"just about tech wanting to hire more people\", the Internet entrepreneur replied: \"The bigger problem we're trying to address is ensuring the 11 million undocumented folks living in this country now and similar folks in the future are treated fairly.\"\n\nIn June 2013, Zuckerberg joined Facebook employees in a company float as part of the annual San Francisco Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Pride Celebration. The company first participated in the event in 2011, with 70 employees, and this number increased to 700 for the 2013 march. The 2013 pride celebration was especially significant, as it followed a U.S. Supreme Court ruling that deemed the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) unconstitutional.\nWhen questioned about the mid-2013 PRISM scandal at the TechCrunch Disrupt conference in September 2013, Zuckerberg stated that the U.S. government \"blew it.\" He further explained that the government performed poorly in regard to the protection of the freedoms of its citizens, the economy, and companies.\n\nZuckerberg placed a statement on his Facebook wall on December 9, 2015 which said that he wants \"to add my voice in support of Muslims in our community and around the world\" in response to the aftermath of the November 2015 Paris attacks and the 2015 San Bernardino attack. The statement also said that Muslims are \"always welcome\" on Facebook, and that his position was a result of the fact that \"as a Jew, my parents taught me that we must stand up against attacks on all communities.\"\n\nOn February 24, 2016, Zuckerberg sent out a company-wide internal memo to employees formally rebuking employees who had crossed out handwritten \"Black Lives Matter\" phrases on the company walls and had written \"All Lives Matter\" in their place. Facebook allows employees to free-write thoughts and phrases on company walls. The memo was then leaked by several employees. As Zuckerberg had previously condemned this practice at previous company meetings, and other similar requests had been issued by other leaders at Facebook, Zuckerberg wrote in the memo that he would now consider this overwriting practice not only disrespectful, but \"malicious as well.\" According to Zuckerberg's memo, \"\"Black Lives Matter\" doesn't mean other lives don't -- it's simply asking that the black community also achieves the justice they deserve.\" The memo also noted that the act of crossing something out in itself, \"means silencing speech, or that one person's speech is more important than another's.\" Zuckerberg also said in the memo that he would be launching investigations into the incidents. New York's \"Daily News\" interviewed Facebook employees who commented anonymously that, \"Zuckerberg was genuinely angry about the incident and it really encouraged staff that Zuckerberg showed a clear understanding of why the phrase 'Black Lives Matter' must exist, as well as why writing through it is a form of harassment and erasure.\"\n\nIn January 2017, Zuckerberg criticized Donald Trump's executive order to severely limit immigrants and refugees from some countries.\n\nZuckerberg met his future wife, fellow student Priscilla Chan, at a fraternity party during his sophomore year at Harvard. They began dating in 2003.\n\nIn September 2010, Zuckerberg invited Chan, by then a medical student at the University of California, to move into his rented Palo Alto house. Zuckerberg studied Mandarin in preparation for the couple's visit to China in December 2010. On May 19, 2012, Zuckerberg and Chan married in Zuckerberg's backyard in an event that also celebrated her graduation from medical school. On July 31, 2015, Zuckerberg announced that he and Chan were expecting a baby girl. He said he felt confident that the risk of miscarrying was low so far into the pregnancy, after Chan had already suffered three miscarriages. On December 1, Zuckerberg announced the birth of their daughter, Maxima Chan Zuckerberg (\"Max\"). The couple announced on their Chinese New Year video, published on February 6, 2016, that Maxima's official Chinese name is Chen Mingyu (). They welcomed their second daughter, August, in August 2017.\n\nZuckerberg has also been very active in China, and he has been a member of Tsinghua University business school's advisory board since 2014.\n\nZuckerberg was raised Jewish but later identified as an atheist, a position he has since renounced. He has shown an appreciation for Buddhism. With regard to Christianity, both Zuckerberg and his wife told Pope Francis in August 2016 \"how much we admire his message of mercy and tenderness, and how he's found new ways to communicate with people of every faith around the world.\" In December 2016, when asked \"Aren't you an atheist?\" in response to a Christmas Day post on Facebook, Zuckerberg responded, \"No. I was raised Jewish and then I went through a period where I questioned things, but now I believe religion is very important.\" As he closed his commencement address at Harvard University in May 2017, Zuckerberg shared the Jewish prayer \"Mi Shebeirach\", which he stated he says when he faces challenges in life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53844230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53844230", "title": "Massimo Boninsegni", "text": "Massimo Boninsegni\n\nMassimo Boninsegni is an Italian Canadian theoretical condensed matter physicist. Born in Genova (Italy) in 1963, he graduated with a Bachelor's degree in physics at the Universita' degli Studi di Genova in 1986.\n\nHe moved to the United States in 1987, where he received a doctoral degree in physics from Florida State University. His Ph.D. thesis was on numerical studies of a strongly correlated electronic model of high-temperature superconductivity.\nHe took on postdoctoral positions at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and University of Delaware, before becoming in 1997 an assistant professor of physics at San Diego State University. He moved to the University of Alberta in 2002, where he has been a professor of physics since 2005. In 2008 he became a Canadian citizen.\n\nHis research interests are in the areas of superfluidity, superconductivity, Bose-Einstein condensation and Quantum Monte Carlo simulations. His most important contribution is in computational quantum many-body physics, specifically to the development of the continuous-space Worm Algorithm for the simulation of strongly correlated Bose systems at finite temperature. He also contributed to the study of the condensed phase of molecular hydrogen, chiefly the superfluid properties of small clusters, as well as of the supersolid phase of matter. \n\nHe was awarded the status of Fellow of the American Physical Society, after being nominated by the Division of Computational Physics in 2007, for ``\"the development of a novel methodology enabling accurate, large-scale Quantum Monte Carlo simulations of interacting many-body systems, and for its application to the investigation of the supersolid phase of helium and of superfluidity of molecular hydrogen\".’’\n\nMassimo Boninsegni is an atheist and science blogger.\n"}
{"id": "41242712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41242712", "title": "McStay family murder", "text": "McStay family murder\n\nThe McStay family was an American family found murdered in the desert near Victorville, California, on November 13, 2013. The family disappeared from their home in Fallbrook, California, on February 4, 2010. The McStays' disappearance was widely reported on national news stations and on \"America's Most Wanted\", \"Disappeared\", \"Nancy Grace\", and \"Unsolved Mysteries\". On November 7, 2014, police announced they had arrested Charles \"Chase\" Merritt, Joseph McStay's business partner, and intended to charge him with the murders; the trial is scheduled to begin in July 2018.\n\nIn 2010, Joseph McStay (age 40) and his wife Summer (age 43) lived in Fallbrook, California, with their sons Gianni (age 4) and Joseph Jr. (age 3). Joseph owned and operated Earth Inspired Products, a company that built decorative fountains, and Summer was a licensed real estate agent.\n\nOn February 4, 2010, at 7:47 pm, a neighbor's surveillance system captured the bottom 18 inches of a vehicle, thought at the time to be the McStay family's 1996 Isuzu Trooper. In the surveillance recording, the vehicle's occupants could not be seen. At 8:28 pm, a call was placed from Joseph McStay's cell phone to his business associate, Chase Merritt. The call went to voice mail. Merritt later told police that he ignored it because he was watching a movie. Joseph's cellphone pinged a tower in Fallbrook.\n\nOver the next several days, the McStays' family unsuccessfully tried to contact them. On February 13, Joseph's brother, Michael McStay traveled to the McStay residence and on finding an open window in back, climbed in and gained entry to the home. Michael McStay did not find any of the McStay family at home, and their two dogs were in the backyard. On February 15, he phoned the San Diego Sheriff's Department and reported his brother and family missing. Officers arrived to the home and requested a search warrant, executed on February 19, 2010. Although a search of the home found no evidence of struggle or foul play, there were indications of a hasty departure: a carton of raw eggs had been left on the counter and two child-size bowls of popcorn sat on a sofa.\n\nDuring their investigation, the police learned that at 11 pm on February 8, the family's Trooper had been towed from a strip mall parking lot in San Ysidro, San Diego, near the Mexican border. It was believed to have been parked there between 5:30 and 7:00 that evening. The car's location from February 4 to February 8 is unknown.\n\nOn November 11, 2013, a motorcyclist found four sets of human remains buried in two shallow graves in the desert near Victorville, California. Patrick McStay, Joseph's father, was informed of the discovery and phoned missing person advocate Jerrie Dean of Missing Persons of America to tell her what he knew. Jerrie Dean stated in her blog she had just finished producing a radio show for KNSJ when she received the phone call, and that she asked whether she could tell her followers what he had told her. Two days later, two sets of remains were officially identified as those of Joseph and Summer McStay. The deaths were ruled a homicide and San Bernardino County authorities said they believed the family died of blunt force trauma inside their home, but declined to discuss specifics of the deaths or a motive.\n\nDays after the discovery of the bodies, Joseph McStay's father said the San Diego Sheriff's Department investigation was faulty. He filed formal complaints in 2013.\n\nThe circumstances surrounding the family's disappearance and the lack of clues about their whereabouts triggered speculation by amateur sleuths. Radio host Rick Baker published a book, \"No Goodbyes: The Mysterious Disappearance of the McStay Family\". Baker began following the case in 2013, after interviewing Joseph's brother, Michael, on his program. He conducted dozens of interviews on the case (traveling to Belize, Mexico, Haiti and the Dominican Republic), followed leads and reported sightings of the family. In the book he speculated that Summer McStay might have committed the murders. When the bodies were found, he offered a refund to those who purchased his book before November 2013.\n\nAfter their disappearance, it was speculated that the McStays left voluntarily, since investigators found searches on the family's computers for \"What documents do children need for traveling to Mexico?\" and Spanish language lessons. Because their car was found so close to the Mexican border, police reviewed surveillance footage of the pedestrian gate into Mexico. Video recorded the evening of February 8, released on March 5, showed a family of four resembling the McStays crossing the border into Mexico. On February 19, 2010, California police notified Interpol to be on the lookout for the family. In April 2013, the San Diego Sheriff's Department announced that it believed that the McStays traveled to Mexico voluntarily. Unconfirmed sightings of the family were reported in Mexico and elsewhere, perpetuating hopes that they were safe and had left voluntarily. Relatives of the McStays doubted that they would travel to Mexico, saying that Joseph and Summer avoided the country because of the safety threat posed by recent drug wars. Other critics of the theory noted that the McStays had more than $100,000 in bank accounts, with no withdrawal of funds in preparation for a trip, and their accounts were untouched after their disappearance. Summer's sister said Summer's passport was expired. Although it is possible for a U.S. citizen to enter Mexico without a passport, one is required to reenter the United States.\n\nSummer had been known by a number of names. Born \"Virginia Lisa Aranda\", she had also been known as \"Summer Martelli\", \"Summer Aranda-Martelli\", \"Lisa Aranda\", \"Lisa Martelli\" and \"Lisa Aranda-Martelli\". In an early video interview, her mother confirmed that Martelli was the surname of Summer's stepfather, but it was later alleged to have been invented by Summer. In a February 25, 2010 \"Valley News\" article, Sheriff's Lieutenant Dennis Brugos confirmed that Summer McStay had used various names including her stepfather's last name of Martelli, although she was never adopted by him. She took ten years off her age, although there was no confirmation that she used the alternative birthdate on any legal document. Family members insisted that the name change was only a facet of Summer's mental illness.\n\nInvestigators and the public also focused on McStay's business partner, Chase Merritt, who was the last known person to have had contact with Joseph McStay, and was the first to notice his disappearance. According to state records, Merritt had felony convictions for burglary and receiving stolen property. His most recent felony conviction, in 2001, was for the theft of $32,000 worth of welding and drilling equipment from San Gabriel Valley Ornamental Iron Works in Monrovia, California. An acquaintance of Merritt's told a San Diego reporter, \"I think police should look at him and anyone associated with him.\"\n\nIn 2013, Merritt acknowledged he had spent more than an hour with Joseph McStay the day the McStay family went missing. Merritt, who reportedly was the last person McStay called from his cell phone, also said that he had passed a polygraph exam and did not know anything that could help solve the mystery of the family's disappearance. When asked if he thought Merritt was a suspect, Joseph McStay's father Patrick said, \"I have to have faith in Chase because I have to have faith in my son. I believe that he (Joseph McStay) trusted Chase and believed in Chase. Do I think Chase is involved? I don't think so, and I truly hope not.\"\n\nIn January, 2014, Merritt said that he might write a book about the family, alleging that Summer had anger issues and that Joseph had been ill for some time with a mysterious ailment. Joseph McStay's family confirmed that Joseph had an unexplained illness and that Summer was possessive of her husband, but they called Merritt's suggestion that she was responsible for his illness unfounded. Joseph's father Patrick said, \"I truly believe she loved my son.\"\n\nIn 2013, local news reported that the McStay family had called Summer's ex-boyfriend, Vick W. Johansen, a person of interest in the case; the family believes email records demonstrate that Johansen was obsessed with Summer for years after their relationship ended. The McStays noted his criminal history (violent threats, felony vandalism, disturbing the peace, interfering with a business and resisting a peace officer) and a pattern of movement around the time of the disappearance that they considered suspicious. The San Diego Police Department had no comment on Johansen, defending its work in the case.\n\nOn November 5, 2014, detectives from the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department arrested Chase Merritt in connection with the deaths of the McStay family after discovering that his DNA had been recovered from the McStays' car. His arrest was announced on November 7, 2014. Merritt is awaiting trial on four counts of murder, and the district attorney is seeking the death penalty. In July 2015, Merritt's defense attorney filed a request to have the case dismissed because of the wording used by the prosecution when the charges were filed.\n\nAccording to arrest warrant affidavits filed in the case, autopsies concluded that all four victims had been beaten to death with a blunt object, and investigators believe the murder weapon was a 3-pound sledgehammer, which was found in the grave containing the remains of Summer McStay and one of her sons. Investigators testified they believed the victims were tortured before they were killed.\n\nProsecutors allege that Merritt had a gambling problem, and killed the family for financial gain. They said that he wrote checks totalling more than $21,000 on Joseph McStay's business account in the days after they were killed, and then went on a gambling spree at nearby casinos, where he lost thousands of dollars.\n\nTrial has been delayed as Merritt has repeatedly fired his attorney or attempted to represent himself. , he had gone through five attorneys.\n\nIn January 2018, a trial setting conference was scheduled for 23 February. Merritt's attorney filed a motion in San Bernardino Superior Court on April 7, 2018, arguing that Joseph McStay's business and accounting records are hearsay evidence and therefore inadmissible. On May 4, the case was scheduled to go to trial in July 2018.\n"}
{"id": "3234393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3234393", "title": "Meketaten", "text": "Meketaten\n\nMeketaten (\"Behold the Aten\" or \"Protected by Aten\") was the second daughter of six born to the Egyptian Pharaoh Akhenaten and his Great Royal Wife Nefertiti. She was probably born in year 4 of Akhenaten's reign. Although little is known about her, she is frequently depicted with her sisters accompanying her royal parents in the first two thirds of Akhenaten's reign.\n\nMeketaten was the second daughter born to Akhenaten and Nefertiti. She had an older sister named Meritaten and four younger sisters named Ankhesenpaaten, Neferneferuaten Tasherit, Neferneferure and Setepenre. Tutankhaten was a half-brother.\n\nMeketaten’s approximate year of birth is in or before year 4 of Akhenaten. Meketaten is first depicted on the walls of the \"Hut-benben\" temple dedicated to her mother Nefertiti in Thebes. Meketaten appears behind her older sister Meritaten in some of the later inscriptions, thought to date to year 4 or later. Further arguments to suggest Meketaten was born in or before year 4 come from the fact that her figure was added to one of the boundary stela recording events in year 4 and carved in year 5. \n\nMeketaten moved to the new capital city Akhetaten with her family when she was still a small child. She is depicted in several of the tombs of the nobles in Amarna. Meketaten is depicted in the tomb of Ay holding a tray of gifts while wrapping one arm around her mother’s neck. Other monuments mentioning Meketaten include a stela from Heliopolis, a statue base from the Fayoum, and the tombs of Panehesy and Parennefer. Meketaten was depicted with her parents and sisters at the reception of foreign tributes – a ceremony dating to year 12 - that can be seen on several scenes in the private tombs in Amarna of high-ranking officials named Huya and High Priest Meryre II.\n\nMeketaten died in approximately year 14 of Akhenaten. It is very likely that a plague swept across Egypt between Akhenaten's 12th and 15th regnal years, for many members of the royal family cease to be mentioned again; among them Queen Mother Tiye, Queen Nefertiti, Akhenaten's secondary wife Kiya, Meketaten and the two youngest princesses, Neferneferure and Setepenre. Meketaten's death could have resulted either from a plague, or from childbirth. The presence of a royal baby causes many to believe the young princess died in childbirth (in which case the father of the child would most likely be Akhenaten himself), but this cannot be proven. An alternative interpretation suggested by van Dijk is that the child depicted in the scenes is the soul (the ka) of Meketaten.5\n\nThree chambers, denoted as Chambers formula_1 and formula_2 of the Royal Tomb are believed to be used for the burials. Chambers formula_3 and formula_2 depict very similar scenes: Akhenaten and Nefertiti bend over the inert body of a woman, weeping and gripping each other's arms for support. Nearby a nurse stands with a baby in her arms, accompanied by a fan-bearer, which indicates the baby's royal status. \nThe names in the scene in chamber formula_3 have been hacked out. In the chamber formula_2 however the hieroglyphs identify the dead young woman as Meketaten. In the same chamber another scene shows Meketaten standing under a canopy which is usually associated with childbirth but can also interpreted as representing the rebirth of the princess. In front of her, amongst courtiers, stand Akhenaten, Nefertiti and their three remaining daughters, Meritaten, Ankhesenpaaten and Neferneferuaten Tasherit.\n\nIt is possible that chamber formula_3 was the burial place of someone other than Meketaten. There may even have been two burials which may have been those of Neferneferure and Setepenre, but this is not certain. Another theory is that one of the scenes depicts Kiya and that the baby is Tutankhamun. However, Jacobus Van Dijk, in a 2009 book in memory of the late William Murnane has demonstrated that this person was actually a symbolic depiction of the death and rebirth of Meketaten now with the god Aten in the afterlife. John Harris also agrees with Van Dijk's conclusions according to the author. \n\nFragments of Meketaten’s sarcophagus were found in the royal tomb. Inscriptions mention her parents Akhenaten and Nefertiti, her sister Ankhesenpaaten as well as her grandparents Amenhotep III and Queen Tiye.\n"}
{"id": "29107833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29107833", "title": "Millicent Borges Accardi", "text": "Millicent Borges Accardi\n\nMillicent Borges Accardi is a Portuguese-American poet who lives in California. She has received literary fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), Fulbright, CantoMundo, the California Arts Council, Barbara Deming Foundation, and Formby Special Collections at Texas Tech University for research on the writer/activist Key Boyle.\n\nHer full-length poetry collection is \"Only More So\", (Salmon Poetry, Ireland), \"Injuring Eternity\" and Practical Love Poems (forthcoming) are with World Nouveau She also has a chapbook, \"Woman on a Shaky Bridge\", with Finishing Line Press.\n\nHer articles can be found at \"The Writers Chronicle\", Association of Writers & Writing Programs. \"Poets Quarterly\", \"The Portuguese American Journal\", \"Portuguese-American Review\", and \"The Topanga Messenger\". Interview subjects have included Grammy Director Michael Greene; poets W.S. Merwin and Carl Dennis; writers Frank X. Gaspar, Sam Pereira, Jacinto Lucas Pires, Donna Freitas (Sex and the Soul), and Nuno Júdice; Paulette Rapp (daughter of The Bickersons writer), Stephen Rebello (Alfred Hitchcock and the Making of Psycho), playwright Bill Bozzone, CantoMundo, and Portuguese-American scholar Deolinda Adão.\n\nBorges Accardi's work has appeared in over 50 publications, including \"Nimrod\", \"Tampa Review\", \"New Letters\" and \"The Wallace Stevens Journal\", as well as in \"Boomer Girls\" (Iowa Press) and \"Chopin with Cherries\" (Moonrise Press) anthologies.\nArtist residencies include Yaddo, Jentel, Vermont Studio, Fundación Valparaíso in Mojacar, Milkwood in Český Krumlov, CZ and Disquiet in Lisbon, Portugal.\n\nShe received degrees in English and literature from California State University, Long Beach (CSULB), holds a Masters in Professional Writing from the University of Southern California (USC). She was named after the \"Millicent Library\" in Fairhaven, MA.\n\nBorges Accardi also works as a freelance writer (technical writing and instructional design).\n\nIn 2012, Millicent Accardi started the \"Kale Soup for the Soul\" reading series featuring Portuguese-American writers. The first edition was in Chicago at the famous Chicago Cultural Center. Since then, \"Kale Soup for the Soul\" readings have featured over 25 different writers, in regional readings in cities such as San Francisco, Seattle, Iowa City, Providence, Rhode Island, Boston and San José—as part of a new wave of Portuguese-American Literature. In 2013, there were \"Kale Soup for the Soul\" readings at the Mass Poetry Festival in Salem, the Valente Library in Cambridge, and the Portuguese Consulate in Boston. There were also readings at Brown University, UMass Dartmouth, and Rhode Island College as well as workshops with local students from Shea high school in Rhode Island (80 students in attendance). There was a conference in Lisbon which featured a panel about Portuguese-American Literature as well as a round table with many of the writers who have participated in \"Kale Soup for the Soul\".\n\nPoetry collections:\n\nChapbooks:\n\n2015: Fulbright Fellowship for Poetry \n2013: US@PT travel grant from Fundação Luso-Americanato (FLAD)\n2014/2012: Center for Cultural Innovation, Creative Capacity Quick Grant\n2011/2012: CantoMundo Fellowship\n2010: Formby Fellowship, Special Collections Library at Texas Tech University, Lubbock, Texas\n2003: California Arts Council Grant for Poetry\n2002: Barbara Deming Foundation\n1998: Alden B. Dow Fellowship (unable to attend)\n1997-98: National Endowment for the Arts Literature Fellowship for Poetry\n1992: Elizabethe Kempthorne Endowment for Creative Writing at USC\n1991: State of California Pre-Doctoral Grant\n\nMLA\nAmerican Portuguese Studies Association\nPEN/America\nAssociated Writing Programs Associate\nPortuguese-American Women's Association\nCantoMundo\nUSC Alumni Association\nSociety for Technical Communication\n\n"}
{"id": "40568034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40568034", "title": "Neuroenhancement", "text": "Neuroenhancement\n\nNeuroenhancement refers to the targeted enhancement and extension of cognitive and affective abilities based on an understanding of their underlying neurobiology in healthy persons who do not have any mental illness. As such, it can be thought of as an umbrella term that encompasses pharmacological and non-pharmacological methods of improving cognitive, affective, and motor functionality, as well as the overarching ethico-legal discourse that accompanies these aims. Critically, for any agent to qualify as a neuroenhancer, it must reliably engender substantial cognitive, affective, or motor benefits beyond normal functioning in healthy individuals, whilst causing few side effects: at most at the level of commonly used comparable legal substances or activities, such as caffeine, alcohol, and sleep-deprivation.\n\nPharmalogical neuroenhancement agents include the well-validated nootropics, such as racetam, vinpocetine, and phosphatidylserine, as well as other drugs used for treating patients suffering from neurological disorders. Non-pharmacological measures include non-invasive brain stimulation, which has been employed to improve various cognitive and affective functions, and brain-machine interfaces, which hold much potential to extend the repertoire of motor and cognitive actions available to humans.\n\nAlthough consideration of individual neuroenhancement agents is usually triggered by success in clinical and technological fields, they have also been used to attempt to help people with lack of normal cognitive, motor, and affective abilities: for example, social skills and empathy. In this case, neuroenhancement drugs try to increase oxytocin and decrease cortisol levels helping people better their communication and social interaction skills.\n\nModafinil is a wakefulness-promoting drug that decreases fatigue, increases vigilance, reduces daytime sleepiness, and improves mood. Modafinil is currently licensed for treating patients with disorders such as narcolepsy, sleep apnea, and shift work sleep disorder. This drug also seems promising in the treatment of depression and bipolar disorder. Modafinil is currently being used by United States Air Force personnel for missions of great duration in an attempt to decrease fatigue amongst aircrew. It has become more popular amongst the general public. In an online poll conducted by \"Nature\" magazine, 8.8% of 1400 corresponding readers admitted use of modafinil for non-medical reasons. Their reasoning behind its use was for increasing concentration and focus on a specific task or to counteract sleep deficit and jetlag. A comparison between the sales of modafinil to the number of patients revealed a disproportionate ratio, indicating high abuse.\n\nModafinil has been reported to improve executive function in healthy non-sleep-deprived individuals, as well as potentially improving attention and learning and memory. Effects on sleep deprived individuals are even more striking: a single dose resulted in enhanced wakefulness, executive functions, and memory. In the case of sustained sleep deprivation, repeated intake of modafinil helped individuals maintain higher levels of wakefulness than the placebo, but did not help attention and executive function. Since the majority of these trials were conducted on military personnel, further research needs to be conducted on the effects of modafinil on the general population. Modafinil may impair one's self-monitoring ability. A common trend found in research studies indicated that participants rated their performances on cognitive tests higher than it actually was, suggesting \"overconfidence\" effect.\n\nModafinil is becoming increasingly popular among the general population. Apart from a consumer's want to increase his neurological performance, there are financial incentives for manufacturers as well. Modafinil has a market share of more than $700 million a year, indicating a high degree of off-label use. Modafinil is also one of the more easily available neuroenhancement drugs in the market today. Modafinil can be bought\nfrom many websites – mostly from Asian countries – as well as from darknet markets. Modafinil first came into attention when world champion runner Kelli White was tested positive for illegally consuming modafinil in the Athletics World Championship in 2003, resulting in the loss of her two gold medals.\n\nMethylphenidate (MPH) is a stimulant that is used to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). MPH is known to be highly abused by the general population, especially college students. In an online poll conducted by \"Nature\" magazine, 12.4% of 1400 corresponding readers admitted use of MPH for non-medical reasons. Their reasoning behind its use was for increasing concentration, sleep deficit, and jetlag.\n\nA comparison between the sales of MPH to the number of patients revealed a disproportionate ratio, indicating high abuse. MPH is believed to have a positive effect for memory consolidation, but studies have not been able to conclusively verify this claim. Popular opinion that MPH enhances attention could not be verified. Studies of MPH have reported improved problem solving skills. However, when these studies were repeated to replicate the results, the placebo group scored higher, indicating that MPH may even impair performance.\n\nThese inconclusive, and generally negative, results for memory enhancement are insufficient to explain the use of MPH for non-medical reasons. Users may have motives other than genuine neuroenhancement that propels its unprescribed use, such as subjective and recreational effects. The lack of any result, positive or negative, indicated that the 10–20 mg dosage may be too low for the drug. Further studies need to be conducted, looking at different doses of MPH.\n\nMemantine is a NMDA receptor antagonist and is used to treat patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease, but is also used as a neuroenhancement drug. \nStudies conducted on memantine were unable to conclusively verify neuroenhancement capability of the drug. Since most of these studies were single dose tests of memantine, it is possible that these drugs would only show some effect, positive or negative, after continuous intake. Until then, single dose studies of memantine are not enough to reveal the drug's actual potential.\n\nDonepezil is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI) that is used to treat patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. While many AChEIs could be potential neuroenhancement substances, donepezil is the most commonly used AChEIs by the general population due to its widespread use for treating Alzheimer's disease.\n\nMost studies on donepezil are unable to conclusively verify the neuroenhancement capability of the drug. In such studies, it was seen participants that took donepezil scored higher than those that took the placebo. Donepezil helps individuals retain training tasks, verbal memory, and episodic memory. In sleep deprivation studies, while donepezil had no effect on well-rested patients, it had a positive effect on patients with 24 hours of sleep deprivation. Such patients benefited from increased memory performance and attention that would otherwise be deficit in such sleep-deprived conditions. However, this effect was only seen in individuals whose performance declined significantly due to sleep deprivation.\n\nWhile neuroenhancement drugs are a potential method for cognitive performance enhancement, Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) over the motor cortex (MC) is being seen as another potential method. Although it was originally intended to help patients with brain injuries such as stroke, there has been a lot of interest in the last few years on tDCS's capabilities for healthy individuals as well. Recent studies have already shown improved neuroplasticity from tDCS to facilitate motor learning in young humans, and it may be possible to apply this method to the older segment of the workforce as well.\n\nStimulating higher cognitive functions of the brain, such as the language function, with tDCS in one study resulted in improved word retrieval. tDCS works by enhancing the connectivity in a given stimulated network, providing neural efficiency in highly specific brain areas critical for task performance. During this time, fMRI images also showed reduced activity in the semantic retrieval processes, suggesting more efficient processing in task-critical areas of the brain. Reduced activity in circumscribed task-related areas has been attributed to consolidation of motor learning and superior memory performance. New research in tDCS is trying to localize the stimulation to affect the desired subset of highly specific task-relevant neurons.\n\nDeep brain stimulation (DBS) is another form of neuroenhancement. Unlike tDCS, though, DBS involves the implantation of a medical device, and is restricted for use for only a few, severe diseases such as Parkinson's disease and dystonia. In one study, DBS improved movement by 39%, reduced disability by 38%, and improved quality of life by 30% for patients suffering from dystonia over a course of 3 months. The patients had a reduction in dystonia symptoms by 50%. Improvement was noticeable within hours to days after DBS application. The benefits of DBS as of now are far more than those of high-dosage trihexyphenidyl, a powerful drug used in the treatment for dystonia.\n\nNeuroenhancements drugs are well tolerated by healthy humans. These drugs are already in mainstream use to treat patients with different kinds of psychiatric disorders. Since most of the information on neuroenhancements and its capabilities are drawn from research experiments, the best way to determine adverse effects are drop-out rates and subjective rating. The drop-out rates were minimal or non-existent for donepezil, memantine, MPH, and modafinil.\nIn the drug trials, participants reported the following adverse reactions to the consumption of donepezil, memantine, MPH, or modafinil: gastrointestinal complaints (nausea), headache, dizziness, nightmares, anxiety, drowsiness, nervousness, restlessness, sleep disturbances, and insomnia. The side effects normally ceased in the course of treatment.\nWhile there were no reported side effects from DBS, 18% of the patients suffered from device related complications such as infections due to lead dislodgment or breakage.\n\nNeuroenhancement is often seen analogous to the issue of doping in sports. A common concern raised is an unfair advantage of people who consume enhancing drugs over people who don't. Many athletes, however, feel that the only way for them to win against athletes that take performance-enhancing drugs (PED) is for them to take PEDs as well; a similar thought process has developed within the general population in regard to people that consume neuroenhancement drugs. In a research study of 18- to 34-year-olds, 50% of them had little or no objection to the concept of doping. Students, in particular, often feel that cognitive neuroenhancers are acceptable. However, parents and healthcare providers are concerned about the safety and well-being of those that consume neuroenhancement. Generally, the moral acceptability (including fairness perceptions) of such substances for the purpose of neuroenhancement are an important factor in the decision to use or not use such drugs. Studies found that moral objections against such substances strongly decrease the willingness to use them.\n\nNeuro-enhancement drugs play a key role in some recent novels and movies, such as \"Limitless\" (2011), probing and exploring the opportunities and threats of using neuro-enhancers in an imaginative way.\n\nIn a recent article published by Jayne Lucke, the concept of neuroenhancement is compared to sildenafil. The author states that \"recreational users of [sildenafil] had lower confidence in their ability to achieve an erection than non-users, even though they had significantly better erectile function. They become psychologically dependent on these drugs.\" The author believes a similar trend can be seen neuroenhancement users. The author goes on to argue about how expectation, especially in students that are the general force, differs vastly on what is considered normal or good performance. Many argue that the only option for regulation of neuroenhancements is to allow it to everyone, thus minimizing cheating. Banning the drugs, on the other hand, may have detrimental consequences to society. Not only would it create a black market, amplifying issues caused by illicit use, it would also increase the cost to society from enforcing the law. Neuroenhancement drugs need to be assessed further for their merits and adverse effects, making it easier for policy makers to make a call on the regulation of such drugs.\n\nProponents of cognitive enhancement have argued that there are vast potential benefits for the workforce, especially for the older segment. Due to advances in medical technology over the last century, the human life expectancy has increased significantly. Demographics for developed countries indicate rapid growth of the older segment of the workforce. Advancing age generally shows a pattern in the reduction of the ability to acquire new skills, but integration in the industry today requires employees to be able to acquire and retain new skills more than ever before.\n\nThe opinion of the general public on the issue of neuroenhancement is scattered. In general, the younger population under the age of 25 feel that neuroenhancements are acceptable or that the decision lies in the hand of that individual. Healthcare officials and parents feel concerned due to safety factors, lack of complete information on these drugs, and possible irreversible adverse effects. Such concerns have been shown to reduce the willingness to take such drugs.\n\nA recent German study among 6.454 employees found a rather low life-time prevalence of cognitive enhancement drug use (namely 2.96%), while the willingness to take such drugs was found in every tenth respondent (10.45%). Studies have estimated that between 7–9% of the college population in the United States consumes neuroenhancement drugs. Some studies estimate this figure to be as high as 12% or even 20%. A large-scale survey using a random sample of more than 5.000 German university students found a relatively low 30-days prevalence of 1.2%, 2.3% indicated the use of such drugs within the last 6 months, 3.2% within the last 12 months and during 4.6% during their lifetime, respectively. Of those students, who used such substances during the last 6 months, 39.4% reported their use once in this period, 24.2% twice, 12.1% three times and 24.2% more than three times. It has been shown that consumers of neuroenhancement drugs are much more willing to also use them in the future, e.g. due to positive experiences or a tendency towards addiction. Students primarily attribute consumption of these drugs for increased concentration, improved alertness, or to \"get high\". Neuroenhancement drug users rated the positive potential of neuroenhancement drugs higher than non-users, and rated the adverse effects of these drugs lower than non-users, showing more confidence in the result of these drugs. In a survey of 1324 German students, 32% of participants that do not consume neuroenhancement drugs felt they had positive cognitive effects while 12% felt they had a relaxation effect. In contrast, 54% of participants that do consume neuroenhancement drugs felt they had a positive cognitive effect while 25% felt they had a relaxation effect.\n\nThe need to remain \"alert\" and \"focused\" can also been seen in the trend of caffeine consumption. The caffeine consumption for both students and the general population of the US is around 90%. Students who consume neuroenhancements also had a higher frequency of consuming psychoactive lifestyle drugs such as cannabis. This demonstrates a trend of psychological addiction amongst neuroenhancement users.\n\nA study among German university teachers (including professors) found a very low prevalence of neuroenhancement drug use. Only 0.9% of the respondents reported the use of such drugs. However, 10% of the respondents are willing to take such drugs in the future, what might indicate a potential increase of the prevalence. One reason to use such drugs was work-related stress.\n\nPhysicians play an important role in determining the potential abuse of neuroenhancing drugs. While some neuroenhancing drugs do not require a prescription and are easily available, others that require prescription are up to the discretion of the physician. In a survey conducted among Swiss psychiatrists and general practitioners, the majority of surveyed physicians agreed that their criteria to determine whether or not a dysfunction should be considered a disease is if the patient indicates subjective suffering and/or negative consequences for everyday ability to work. The surveyed physicians, however, were in majority agreement that they do not prescribe medication without a clear indication of such a dysfunction.\n\n"}
{"id": "2741900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2741900", "title": "Old Baldy (horse)", "text": "Old Baldy (horse)\n\nOld Baldy (ca. 1852 – December 16, 1882) was the horse ridden by Union Major General George G. Meade at the Battle of Gettysburg and in many other important battles of the American Civil War.\n\nBaldy was born and raised on the western frontier and at the start of the Civil War was owned by Maj. Gen. David Hunter. His name during this period is unknown. It is said that he was wounded anywhere from five to 14 times during the war, starting at the First Battle of Bull Run, where he was struck in the nose by a piece of an artillery shell. Soon after, in September 1861, he was purchased from the government by Meade in Washington, D.C., for $150 and named Baldy because of his white face.\n\nDespite Baldy's unusual, uncomfortable pace, Meade became quite devoted to him and rode him in all of his battles through 1862 and the spring of 1863. The horse was wounded in the right hind leg at the Second Battle of Bull Run, and at Antietam, he was wounded through the neck and left for dead on the field. He survived and was treated. At Gettysburg, on July 2, 1863, Baldy was hit by a bullet that entered his stomach after passing through Meade's right trouser leg. He staggered and refused to move forward, defying all of Meade's directions. Meade commented, \"Baldy is done for this time. This is the first time he has refused to go forward under fire.\" Baldy was sent to the rear for recuperation. In 1864, having returned to duty for the Overland Campaign and the Siege of Petersburg, he was struck in the ribs by a shell at the Weldon Railroad, and Meade decided that Old Baldy should be retired.\n\nBaldy was sent north to Philadelphia and then to the farm of Meade's staff quartermaster, Captain Sam Ringwalt, in Downingtown, Pennsylvania. He was later relocated to the Meadow Bank Farm, owned by a friend of the Meade family, where he remained for several years. He was moderately active in retirement and Meade rode the horse in several memorial parades. His last parade was as the \"riderless horse\" in the funeral procession of his master, in November 1872. Baldy lived another 10 years. He was euthanized on December 16, 1882, at the age of 30, when he became too feeble to stand. On Christmas Day of that year, two Union Army veterans (Albert C. Johnston and H.W.B. Harvey) disinterred Baldy's remains and decapitated him, sending the head to a taxidermist.\n\nBaldy's head was mounted on a plaque in a glass case and displayed in the Grand Army of the Republic Civil War Museum and Library in Philadelphia. In 1979, his head was loaned to the Old Baldy Civil War Round Table, which paid for its restoration and placed it on exhibit in the Meade Room of the Civil War Museum of Philadelphia. The latter museum closed in August 2008, pending a relocation, and most of its artifacts were distributed to other museums, including the Gettysburg Museum and Visitor Center. Attorneys for the two museums reached an agreement under the auspices of the Philadelphia Orphans' Court in December 2009 to return Old Baldy to the GAR museum on Griscom Street. Ceremonies marking the resumption of public display of Old Baldy at the museum were conducted on September 26, 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1635395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1635395", "title": "Optical neural network", "text": "Optical neural network\n\nAn optical neural network is a physical implementation of an artificial neural network with optical components.\n\nSome artificial neural networks that have been implemented as optical neural networks include the Hopfield neural network and the Kohonen self-organizing map with liquid crystals.\n\nBiological neural networks function on an electrochemical basis, while optical neural networks use electromagnetic waves. Optical interfaces to biological neural networks can be created with optogenetics, but is not the same as an optical neural networks. In biological neural networks there exist a lot of different mechanisms for dynamically changing the state of the neurons, these include short-term and long-term synaptic plasticity. Synaptic plasticity is among the electrophysiological phenomena used to control the efficiency of synaptic transmission, long-term for learning and memory, and short-term for short transient changes in synaptic transmission efficiency. Implementing this with optical components is difficult, and ideally requires advanced photonic materials. Properties that might be desirable in photonic materials for optical neural networks include the ability to change their efficiency of transmitting light, based on the intensity of incoming light.\n\nThere is one recent (2007) model of Optical Neural Network: the Programmable Optical Array/Analogic Computer (POAC). It had been implemented in the year 2000 and reported based on modified Joint Fourier Transform Correlator (JTC) and Bacteriorhodopsin (BR) as a holographic optical memory. Full parallelism, large array size and the speed of light are three promises offered by POAC to implement an optical CNN. They had been investigated during the last years with their practical limitations and considerations yielding the design of the first portable POAC version.\n\nThe practical details: hardware (optical setups) and software (optical templates) are published. However, POAC is a general purpose and programmable array computer that has a wide range of applications including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49769402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49769402", "title": "Paper abortion", "text": "Paper abortion\n\nPaper abortion, also known as a financial abortion or a statutory abort, is the proposed ability of the biological father, before the birth of the child, to opt out of any rights, privileges, and responsibilities toward the child, including financial support. By this means, before a child is born, a man would be able to absolve himself of both the privileges and demands of fatherhood.\n\nIn a 1996 article \"Abortion and Fathers' Rights,\" philosopher Steven Hales made an argument that presupposes the following assertions:\n\n\nHales contends that the conjunction of these three principles is prima facie inconsistent and that this inconsistency should be eradicated by firstly acknowledging that men have no absolute duty to provide material support for their children, and secondly by admitting that fathers have the right of refusal.\n\nLaurie Shrage, professor of philosophy and women’s and gender studies, questions whether men should be 'penalized for being sexually active', and she puts the subject in the perspective of feminists who had to fight the same idea with different gender portent, namely that consenting to sexual intercourse is not the same as consenting to parenthood. Furthermore, both men and children are punished, according to professor Shrage; children have to live with an absent father who never 'voluntarily' became a parent.\n\nAt most, according to Brake, men should be responsible for helping with the medical expenses and other costs of a pregnancy for which they are partly responsible.\n\nPaper abortion has met opposition by those who see it as an excuse for men to shirk their responsibilities as a father. Critics say that men should use birth control (either contraception or sterilization) or practice abstinence if they want to avoid the financial and personal responsibilities of fatherhood. Critics also argue that a father's paper abortion is different from a female abortion since a child is born. Thus the best interests of the child should weigh more than equal opportunity to deny parenthood.\n\nThe concept of a paper abortion was first introduced in Denmark in 2000 by the socioeconomicist Henrik Platz. He says that it is necessary from an egalitarian perspective, to ensure that women and men have equal rights under the law. According to a Gallup poll from 2014 and earlier polls, between 40% and 70% of Danes agree with legalizing paper abortion.\n\nSociologist Karen Sjørup, who conducted research on the topic argues that it would give women more freedom by allowing those who want to become mothers without having to share the rights and duties of parenthood with men an additional way to do so. She also suggests that it could decrease the abortion rate because it would prevent men who wished to avoid fatherhood from pressuring women to abort.\n\nAdvocates argue that just as women are able to choose whether to have a child or not, men should also be able to choose whether to assume paternity or not. Allowing men to have the opportunity to renounce the economic, social and legal responsibility for an unborn child during the first three months of pregnancy would give men and women as close to equal opportunities as possible.\n\nIn 2016, a regional branch of the Swedish Liberal Youth Party decided to support paper abortion for men until the 18th week of pregnancy, the time limit on abortions for women. The proposition was supported by some commentators, but not by the LYP's parent party.\n\n"}
{"id": "126392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=126392", "title": "Paul is dead", "text": "Paul is dead\n\n\"Paul is dead\" is an urban legend and conspiracy theory alleging that Paul McCartney, of the English rock band the Beatles, died in November 1966 and was secretly replaced by a look-alike.\n\nIn September 1969, American college students published articles claiming that clues to McCartney's supposed death could be found among the lyrics and artwork of the Beatles' recordings. Clue-hunting proved infectious and, within a few weeks, had become an international phenomenon. Rumours declined after a contemporary interview with McCartney was published in \"Life\" magazine in November 1969.\n\nReferences to the legend are still occasionally made in popular culture. McCartney himself poked fun at it with his 1993 live album, titling it \"Paul Is Live\", with cover art parodying clues allegedly on the cover of the Beatles' album \"Abbey Road\".\n\nIn early 1967, a rumour circulated in London that Paul McCartney had been killed in a traffic accident while driving along the M1 motorway on 7 January.<ref name=\"Yoakum/Gadfly\"></ref> The rumour was acknowledged and rebutted in the February issue of \"The Beatles Book\", a fanzine. According to a lecture titled \"Who Buried Paul?\", presented by Brian Moriarty at the 1999 Game Developers Conference, it is not known whether the rumour of 1969 is related to this earlier episode. In late September 1969, the Beatles released the album \"Abbey Road\" as they were in the process of disbanding. Isolated from his bandmates in his opposition to their choice of business manager, Allen Klein, and distraught at John Lennon's private announcement that he was leaving the group, McCartney retreated to his farm near Campbeltown in Scotland with his wife Linda and their daughters.\n\nOn 17 September 1969, Tim Harper, an editor of the \"Drake Times-Delphic\", the student newspaper of Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa, published an article titled \"Is Beatle Paul McCartney Dead?\" The article addressed a rumour being circulated on campus that cited clues from recent Beatles albums, including a message interpreted as \"Turn me on, dead man\", heard when \"Revolution 9\" (from the White Album) is played backwards. According to music journalist Merrell Noden, this was the first published article on the \"Paul is dead\" theory. Harper later said that it had become the subject of discussion among students at the start of the new academic year, and he added: \"A lot us, because of Vietnam and the so-called Establishment, were ready, willing and able to believe just about any sort of conspiracy.\"\n\nOn 10 October the Beatles' press officer, Derek Taylor, responded to the rumour, saying: \"Recently we've been getting a flood of inquiries asking about reports that Paul is dead. We've been getting questions like that for years, of course, but in the past few weeks we've been getting them at the office and home night and day. I'm even getting telephone calls from disc jockeys and others in the United States.\"\n\nOn 12 October 1969, a caller to Detroit radio station WKNR-FM told disc jockey Russ Gibb about the rumour and its clues. Gibb and other callers then discussed the rumour on air for the next hour, during which Gibb offered further potential clues. Two days later, \"The Michigan Daily\" published a satirical review of \"Abbey Road\" by University of Michigan student Fred LaBour, who had listened to the exchange on Gibb's show, under the headline \"McCartney Dead; New Evidence Brought to Light\". It identified various clues to McCartney's death on Beatles album covers, particularly on the \"Abbey Road\" sleeve. LaBour had invented many of the clues and was astonished when the story was picked up by newspapers across the United States. Noden writes that \"Very soon, every college campus, every radio station, had a resident expert.\" WKNR fuelled the rumour further with its two-hour programme \"The Beatle Plot\", which first aired on 19 October.\n\nThe story was soon taken up by more mainstream radio stations in the New York area, WMCA and WABC, and by Bill Gavin on the US West Coast. In the early hours of 21 October, WABC disc jockey Roby Yonge discussed the rumour on-air for over an hour before being pulled off the air for breaking format. At that time of night, WABC's signal covered a wide listening area and could be heard in 38 US states and, at times, in other countries. Although the Beatles' press office denied the rumour, McCartney's atypical withdrawal from public life contributed to its escalation. Vin Scelsa, a student broadcaster in 1969, later said that the escalation was indicative of the countercultural influence of Bob Dylan, the Beatles and the Rolling Stones, since: \"Every song from them – starting about late 1966 – became a personal message, worthy of endless scrutiny ... they were guidelines on how to live your life.\"\n\nWMCA despatched Alex Bennett to the Beatles' Apple Corps headquarters in London on 23 October, further to his extended coverage of the \"Paul is dead\" theory. There, Ringo Starr told Bennett: \"If people are gonna believe it, they're gonna believe it. I can only say it's not true.\" In another interview at this time, Lennon said that the rumour was \"insane\" but good publicity for \"Abbey Road\".\n\nBefore the end of October 1969, several record releases had exploited the phenomenon of McCartney's alleged demise. These included \"The Ballad of Paul\" by the Mystery Tour, \"Brother Paul\" by Billy Shears and the All Americans, and \"So Long Paul\" by Werbley Finster, a pseudonym for José Feliciano. Another song was Terry Knight's \"Saint Paul\", which had been a minor hit in June that year and was subsequently adopted by radio stations as a tribute to \"the late Paul McCartney\". In Canada, Polydor Records exploited the rumour in their artwork for \"Very Together\", a repackaging of the Beatles' pre-fame recordings with Tony Sheridan, using a cover that showed four candles, one of which had just been snuffed out.\n\nProponents of the theory maintained that, in November 1966, McCartney had an argument with his bandmates during a Beatles recording session and drove off angrily in his car, crashed, and was decapitated. To spare the public from grief, or simply as a joke, the surviving Beatles replaced him with the winner of a McCartney look-alike contest. This scenario was facilitated by the Beatles' recent retirement from live performance and by their choosing to present themselves with a new image for their next album, \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\".\n\nIn LaBour's telling, the stand-in was an \"orphan from Edinburgh named William Campbell\" whom the Beatles then trained to impersonate McCartney.<ref name=\"Noden/MojoSpecial\"></ref> Others contended that the man's name was William Shears Campbell, later abbreviated to Billy Shears, and the replacement was instigated by Britain's MI5 out of concern for the severe distress McCartney's death would cause the Beatles' audience.<ref name=\"Shivani/Dawn\"></ref> In this latter telling, the surviving Beatles were said to be wracked by guilt at their duplicity, and therefore left messages in their music and album artwork to communicate the truth to their fans.\n\nHundreds of supposed clues to McCartney's death have been reported by fans and followers of the legend. These include messages perceived when listening to a song being played backwards and symbolic interpretations of both lyrics and album cover imagery.\nOne frequently cited example is the suggestion that the words \"I buried Paul\" are spoken by Lennon in the final section of the song \"Strawberry Fields Forever\", which the Beatles recorded in November and December 1966. Lennon later said that the words were actually \"Cranberry sauce\".\n\nAnother example is the interpretation of the \"Abbey Road\" album cover as depicting a funeral procession. Lennon, dressed in white, is said to symbolise the heavenly figure; Starr, dressed in black, symbolises the undertaker; George Harrison, in denim, represents the gravedigger; and McCartney, barefoot and out of step with the others, symbolises the corpse. The number plate of the white Volkswagen Beetle in the photo was identified as further \"evidence\", the characters \"28IF\" representing McCartney's age \"if\" he had still been alive. That the left-handed McCartney holds a cigarette in his right hand was also said to support the idea that he was an imposter.\n\nOn 21 October 1969, the Beatles' press office issued statements denying the rumour, deeming it \"a load of old rubbish\" and saying that \"the story has been circulating for about two years – we get letters from all sorts of nuts but Paul is still very much with us\". On 24 October, BBC Radio reporter Chris Drake was granted an interview with McCartney at his farm. McCartney said that the speculation was understandable, given that he normally did \"an interview a week\" to ensure he remained in the news. Part of the interview was first broadcast on Radio 4, on 26 October, and subsequently on WMCA in the US. According to author John Winn, McCartney had conceded to the interview \"in hopes that people hearing his voice would see the light\", but the ploy failed.\n\nMcCartney was secretly filmed by a CBS News crew as he worked on his farm. As in his and Linda's segment in the Beatles' promotional clip for \"Something\", which the couple filmed privately around this time, McCartney was unshaven and unusually scruffy-looking in his appearance. His next visitors were a reporter and photographer from \"Life\" magazine. Irate at the intrusion, he swore at the pair, threw a bucket of water over them and was captured on film attempting to hit the photographer. Fearing that the photos would damage his image, McCartney then approached the pair and agreed to pose for a photo with his family and answer the reporter's questions, in exchange for the roll of film containing the offending pictures. In Winn's description, the family portrait used for \"Life\"s cover shows McCartney no longer \"shabbily attired\", but \"clean-shaven and casually but smartly dressed\".\n\nFollowing the publication of the article and the photo, in the issue dated 7 November, the rumour started to decline. In the interview, McCartney was quoted as saying: \n\nIn November 1969, Capitol Records sales managers reported a significant increase in sales of Beatles catalogue albums, attributed to the rumour. Rocco Catena, Capitol's vice-president of national merchandising, estimated that \"this is going to be the biggest month in history in terms of Beatles sales\". The albums \"Sgt. Pepper\" and \"Magical Mystery Tour\", which had been off the charts since February, both re-entered the \"Billboard\" Top LPs chart, reaching number 101 and number 109, respectively.\n\nA television special dedicated to \"Paul is dead\" was broadcast on WOR in New York on 30 November. Set in a courtroom, it was hosted by the celebrity lawyer F. Lee Bailey, who cross-examined LaBour and other \"witnesses\", including McCartney's friend Peter Asher and Allen Klein, but he left it to the viewer to determine a conclusion. Before the recording, LaBour told Bailey that his article had been intended as a joke, to which Bailey sighed and replied, \"Well, we have an hour of television to do; you're going to have to go along with this.\"\nMcCartney returned to London in December. Bolstered by Linda's support, he began recording his debut solo album at his home in St John's Wood. Titled \"McCartney\", and recorded without his bandmates' knowledge, it was \"one of the best-kept secrets in rock history\" until shortly before its release in April 1970, according to author Nicholas Schaffner, and led to the announcement of the Beatles' break-up. Both Lennon and McCartney subsequently referred to the \"Paul is dead\" legend in their solo careers. In his 1971 song \"How Do You Sleep?\", in which he attacked McCartney's character, Lennon described the theorists as \"freaks\" who \"were right when they said you was dead\". McCartney titled his 1993 live album \"Paul Is Live\" and presented it in a sleeve that parodied the \"Abbey Road\" cover and its clues.\n\nLaBour later became notable as the bassist for the western swing group Riders in the Sky, which he cofounded in 1977. In 2008, he joked that his success as a musician had extended his fifteen minutes of fame for his part in the rumour to \"seventeen minutes\". In 2015, he told \"The Detroit News\" that he is still periodically contacted by conspiracy theorists who have attempted to present him with supposed new developments on the McCartney rumours.\n\nAuthor Peter Doggett writes that, while the theory behind \"Paul is dead\" defied logic, its popularity was understandable in a climate where citizens were faced with conspiracy theories insisting that the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in 1963 was in fact a coup d'état. Schaffner said that, given its origins as an item of gossip and intrigue generated by a select group in the \"Beatles cult\", \"Paul is dead\" serves as \"a genuine folk tale of the mass communications era\". He also described it as \"the most monumental hoax since Orson Welles' \"War of the Worlds\" broadcast persuaded thousands of panicky New Jerseyites that Martian invaders were in the vicinity\".\n\nDuring the 1970s, the phenomenon became a topic of academic study in America in the fields of sociology, psychology and communications. Among sociological studies, Barbara Suczek recognised it as, in Schaffner's description, a contemporary reading of the \"archetypal myth wherein the beautiful youth dies and is resurrected as a god\". Psychologists Ralph Rosnow and Gary Fine attributed its popularity partly to the shared, vicarious experience of searching for clues without consequence for the participants. They also said that for a generation distrustful of the media following the Warren Commission's report, it was able to thrive amid a climate informed by \"The credibility gap of Lyndon Johnson's presidency, the widely circulated rumors after the Martin Luther King, Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy assassinations, as well as attacks on the leading media sources by the yippies and Spiro Agnew\". American social critic Camille Paglia locates the \"Paul is dead\" phenomenon to the Ancient Greek tradition symbolised by Adonis and Antinous, as represented in the cult of rock music's \"pretty, long-haired boys who mesmerize both sexes\", and she adds: \"It's no coincidence that it was Paul McCartney, the 'cutest' and most girlish of the Beatles, who inspired a false rumor that swept the world in 1969 that he was dead.\" \n\n\"Paul is dead\" has continued to inspire analysis into the 21st century, with published studies by \nAndru J. Reeve, Nick Kollerstrom and Brian Moriarty, among others, and exploitative works in the mediums of mockumentary and documentary film. Writing in 2016, Beatles biographer Steve Turner said, \"the theory still has the power to flare back into life.\" Similar rumours concerning other celebrities have been circulated, including the unsubstantiated allegation that Canadian singer Avril Lavigne died in 2003 and was replaced by a person named Melissa Vandella.<ref name=\"Cresci/Guardian\"></ref> In an article on the latter phenomenon, \"The Guardian\" described the 1969 McCartney hoax as \"Possibly the best known example\" of a celebrity being the focus of \"a (completely unverified) cloning conspiracy theory\". In 2009, \"Time\" magazine included \"Paul is dead\" in its feature on ten of \"the world's most enduring conspiracy theories\".\n\nThere have been many references to the legend in popular culture, including the following examples.\n\n"}
{"id": "40209626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40209626", "title": "Prince George of Kakheti (died 1561)", "text": "Prince George of Kakheti (died 1561)\n\nGeorge (, Giorgi; c. 1529 – 6 April 1561) was a Georgian prince (\"batonishvili\") of the royal house of Kakheti, a son of King Levan of Kakheti by his second wife, a daughter of Kamal Kara-Musel, Shamkhal of Tarki. He was killed in 1561 in a battle with the Safavid Iranian army, fighting on the side of his brother-in-law, King Simon I of Kartli.\n\nGeorge was born of Levan of Kakheti's second marriage to a daughter of Kamal Kara-Musel, the shamkhal of Tarku in Dagestan. He was the eldest of the fourteen children born of this union. According to the 18th-century Georgian historian Prince Vakhushti, Georgewas intended by his father as heir to the throne (Levan had disowned his children by his first marriage to Tinatin Gurieli). In 1561, Simon I of Kartli, ruler of a neighboring Georgian polity, offered Levan—his father-in-law—an alliance against the Safavid Iranian hegemony. Levan, anxious to preserve peace at home, was reluctant, but his son George volunteered with the Kakhetian army for Simon's cause. Arriving at Dzegvi to join the Kartlians, George's troops were attacked and annihilated, on the Easter Day on 6 April 1561, by the Safavid army under Shahverdi Sultan, a Qajar beylerbey of Karabakh, at the battle of Tsikhedidi. George himself was killed in action.\n\nPrince George was married to an anonymous daughter of King Luarsab I of Kartli. He had three sons, George, Vakhtang, and Khosro. Not much is known about them. Khosro was married to the certain Mariam.\n"}
{"id": "27088371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27088371", "title": "Rhinoceros of Versailles", "text": "Rhinoceros of Versailles\n\nThe Rhinoceros of Versailles was a living Indian rhinoceros which was kept in the Palace of Versailles menagerie from 1770 until 1793. \n\nThe live rhinoceros was a gift from M. Chevalier, French governor of Chandernagor, to Louis XV. It left Calcutta, West Bengal on 22 December 1769, and arrived six months later in the seaport of Lorient, in Brittany on 11 June 1770. From there it was transported to the royal Ménagerie which had been built in response to increasing interest in zoology and Louis XIV's passion for the exotic, in 1664.\n\nThe rhino was installed in a small pen at the Ménagerie of Versailles. When the rhinoceros died in 1793, having been in captivity in France for more than 20 years, its skeleton and hide were preserved. They are today displayed at the Museum d'Histoire Naturelle in Paris.\n"}
{"id": "5341825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5341825", "title": "Shmuel Dovid Ungar", "text": "Shmuel Dovid Ungar\n\nRabbi Shmuel Dovid Ungar (23 November 1885 – 9 February 1945), also known as Rabbi Samuel David Ungar, was the rabbi of the Slovakian city of Nitra and dean of the last surviving yeshiva in occupied Europe during World War II. He was the father-in-law of Rabbi Chaim Michael Dov Weissmandl, and played a minor role in the Bratislava Working Group's efforts to save Slovak Jews from the Holocaust.\n\nUngar was the only son born to his father, Rabbi Yosef Moshe Ungar (1855–1897), the rabbi of the town of Pöstyén (today: Piešťany). He was a descendant of the Abrabanel. Ungar's father died when he was 11 years old, and he became a frequent guest at the home of Rabbi Kalman Weber, who was appointed Rav of Pöstyén in his father's place.\n\nAfter his bar mitzvah, Shmuel Dovid left home to study at the yeshiva in Prešov headed by his uncle, Rabbi Noach Baruch Fisher. Later, he studied at the yeshiva in Unsdorf led by Rabbi Shmuel Rosenberg. He married his first cousin, Miriam Leah Fisher, daughter of Rabbi Noach Baruch.\n\nAt the age of 21, Ungar became the Rav of Korompa (today: Krompachy), and founded a yeshiva in that town. Five years later, he was asked to become Rav and Rosh Yeshiva of Nagyszombat (today: Trnava), an old and well-established Jewish community, which he served for 15 years. It was during this tenure that he became known as one of the leading rabbis of Europe for his erudition and strict adherence to halakha. It was also during this time that Rabbi Chaim Michael Dov Weissmandl joined his yeshiva and formed a lifelong attachment to him.\n\nIn 1931, Ungar was approached by the town of Nitra, which had recently lost its chief rabbi, Rabbi Avraham Aharon Katz, with a request that he head that community. To sweeten the offer, the community promised to help him expand its yeshiva under his leadership. Weissmandl tried to dissuade Ungar from accepting the offer, arguing that it would be a mistake to leave an established community like Trnava for Nitra, which was only about 200 years old and had 3,000 Jews. Ungar, however, said he would go. \"My heart tells me that the day will come when there will be no yeshiva anywhere in Slovakia but Nitra, and I want to be there when that happens\", he said presciently.\n\nIn Nitra, Ungar built up a yeshiva with nearly 300 students that eventually attracted students from Czechoslovakia, Romania, Austria and Germany. He taught in the classic Hungarian style introduced by the Chasam Sofer, and although he did not set out to produce rabbis, some of his students did go on to become prominent rabbis in their hometowns. He developed a close and loving relationship with each student and kept the connection after they left, conducting an alumni reunion every five years. Weissmandl married his Rav's daughter, Bracha Rachel, in 1937 and became Ungar's right-hand man in all aspects of running the yeshiva.\n\nBesides his position as the chief rabbi of Nitra, Ungar was appointed vice president of the Moetzes Gedolei HaTorah, the supreme religious body of World Agudath Israel, in 1935.\n\nJewish persecution began even before World War II in Slovakia, where the Munich Agreement of 1938 carved Czechoslovakia into separate states. Slovakia became a totalitarian state run by the Catholic priest Jozef Tiso, who allied with Nazi Germany and supported discrimination against his country's Jews. In 1942, deportations from Slovakia to Auschwitz via Lublin began. The first Jews were forced to leave Nitra on the Shabbat after Passover.\n\nUngar could have left Slovakia to save his life, but he refused to desert his community and his yeshiva. Defying a Nazi order to remain at home on that first day of deportations, Ungar walked to the synagogue to spend the third meal of Shabbat with his flock.\n\nAfter 58,000 Jews had been expelled from Slovakia, Weissmandl, in conjunction with the Working Group that he and other activists had established to try to save Slovak Jews, attempted one of the most ambitious rescue schemes of the Holocaust. With a $50,000 bribe to Dieter Wisliceny (Adolf Eichmann's deputy in the Jewish Section of the Reich Security Main Office and adviser on Jewish affairs to the Slovak government), the Working Group managed to halt the deportations until 1944.\n\nWeissmandl also intervened with the Slovak government to allow the Nitra Yeshiva to continue functioning as the only legal yeshiva in the country during the next two years. To assist students who were still being accosted and sent to forced labor camps, the yeshiva constructed hiding places under the bimah and above bookcases in its study hall in the event of Nazi raids. Often the warning came at such short notice that Talmuds would be left lying open on the tables as everyone fled and hid. Despite these disruptions, Ungar continued to teach and give weekly examinations as usual.\n\nIn August 1944, the Nazis crushed a revolt by Slovak partisans who had never supported Slovakia's Nazi regime, and the German army entered and occupied the country. Deportations to Auschwitz resumed in greater intensity than before. The Nitra Yeshiva was liquidated on September 5, 1944. By September 17, every remaining Jew in Nitra had been deported.\n\nUngar and one of his sons, Sholom Moshe, together with Rabbi Meir Eisler, had been vacationing in the forests of the Zobor Mountain near Nitra. When they heard that the yeshiva had been liquidated, they did not return to Nitra. They made their way to Bistritz, which was under partisan control, but when the Germans attacked that city the following month, they fled and spent the winter hiding in mountain caves and subsisting on starvation rations. Ungar kept a diary in which he recorded his travails and prepared his spiritual will.\n\nThroughout that winter of hiding in the forest, Ungar scrupulously observed Jewish law even though he was starving to death. He refused to eat bread or milk obtained from gentiles, or to even eat bread if there was no water for ritual hand-washing. On one occasion he received some grapes, but would not eat them immediately; he insisted on saving them to eat on the Sabbath. While terror and fear were others' constant companions, he was concerned with how to fulfill the mitzvah of hearing the shofar blasts on Rosh Hashanah.\n\nUngar died of starvation on 9 February 1945 (8 Adar 5705 according to the Hebrew calendar). He instructed his son where and how to bury him, said his last confession (\"viduy\"), and died. After the war, his son re-interred him in Piešťany, his birthplace, next to the grave of his father.\n\nTwo of Ungar's sons, Sholom Moshe (1916–2003) and Yaakov Yitzchak, and a daughter, Chaya Nechama, survived the war. (Chaya Nechama later married Rabbi Yekusiel Yehudah Halberstam, the Klausenberger Rebbe, in America in 1947.) Another son, Benzion, the Rav of Piešťany, was taken to a prison camp in Sereď, where he was murdered by Slovak military police. Ungar's rebbetzin, Miriam Leah, was also murdered, together with many other family members. Ungar's son-in-law, Chaim Michael Dov Weissmandl, survived the war.\n\nUngar's Torah writings were saved by a gentile woman who gave them to Ungar's son, Sholom Moshe, after the war. These were published under the title \"Ne'os Desheh\" (\"Lush meadows\", a line from Psalm 23; the second word in Hebrew, דשא, contains his initials, שמואל דוד אונגר).\n\nAfter the war, Rabbi Sholom Moshe Ungar was named Rav of Nitra by the survivors of that city and reopened the Nitra Yeshiva. In 1946 he and his brother-in-law, Rabbi Weissmandl, moved the Nitra Yeshiva to Somerville, New Jersey. In 1948 the yeshiva was moved again to its present site in Mount Kisco, New York.\n\nRabbi Sholom Moshe Ungar's son, Rabbi Shmuel Dovid Ungar (named after his grandfather) is the current Nitra Rav and Rosh Yeshiva. Today the Nitra community has branches in Boro Park, Williamsburg, Monsey and Jerusalem, Israel.\n"}
{"id": "9730310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9730310", "title": "Steve Adams (Western Federation of Miners)", "text": "Steve Adams (Western Federation of Miners)\n\nSteve Adams, sometimes known as Stephen Adams, was a miner and member of the Western Federation of Miners (WFM) in the early 1900s. Adams was named as an accomplice in several murders by Harry Orchard, who said that the murders were done at the orders of the WFM leadership. Adams was tried three times for murder, but was never convicted.\n\nAdans played a role in events surrounding the murder trials of Western Federation of Miners (WFM) leaders Bill Haywood, Charles Moyer, and George Pettibone, all charged with conspiring to murder former Idaho Governor Frank Steunenberg, allegedly in retaliation of the governor's role in the miner uprising in Coeur d'Alene. The investigations were led by famed Pinkerton agent James McParland. As a witness for the state who recanted, Adams is particularly notable for his comments about the methods used by agent McParland to turn defendants against each other.\n\nMcParland had WFM member Harry Orchard in custody, and had obtained an elaborate confession. However, McParland knew that he needed more than the confession of one man to convict Bill Haywood, who was being tried first among the trio of WFM leaders. Steve Adams was \"a thirty-nine-year-old former Kansas City butcher and Cripple Creek miner with heavy, drooping eyelids and a booze-blotched complexion.\" Harry Orchard had described Adams as an accomplice in several crimes. As in the cases of Haywood, Moyer, and Pettibone, McParland relied upon a perjured warrant to cross state lines and grab Adams. The prisoner wasn't charged with any crime, but was held at the penitentiary in Idaho with Orchard. This was not according to McParland's plans:\nIf arrested, Adams was supposed to be kept in a separate cell away from Orchard as McParland explicitly spelled out to the warden. To prime a man for confessing, McParland required solitary confinement, a penetrating silence, the watchful presence of a stony guard, and as few contacts as possible. Adams was to be denied access to an attorney, knowledge of his wife and children, and no information on the charges against him.\nTogether in the cell, Orchard described his own confession to Adams, and urged Adams to also confess. In spite of the missed instruction about isolation, McParland reportedly later obtained such a confession from Adams. \n\nAlthough Steve Adams wasn't allowed to know anything about his wife and children, they weren't far away:\nHis wife, Annie, and their small children had also been locked in the penitentiary shortly after his arrest for \"their own protection,\" McParland had assured him, hinting that something dreadful might befall them.\nAdams' family was brought to the prison \"as a means to 'sweat' him.\"\n\nHowever, Haywood defense attorney Clarence Darrow passed the word that he would defend Adams, and the prisoner immediately recanted. This provoked the prosecution to try Adams in an old murder case for which there was only flimsy evidence. In fact the only significant evidence against Adams was his now-repudiated confession which appeared to have been coerced, as Harry Orchard's confession was coerced. The difference appeared to be that there was clear evidence of Orchard's guilt in the Steunenberg murder, and perhaps in a string of crimes, but little or no evidence linking the others.\n\nAdams had been dining well and provided with fine cigars since signing his confession, as had Harry Orchard. The note announcing that Adams recanted that confession was passed secretly from his jail cell via his wife, Annie, during a visit. The note \"delivered a lightning bolt\" to the prosecution. It declared,\nThis is to certify that the statement that I signed was made up by James McParland, detective, and Harry Orchard, alias Tom Hogan. I signed it because I was threatened by Governor Gooding, saying I would be hanged if I did not corroborate Orchard's story against the officers of the federation union of miners. Stephen Adams. Witness: Annie Adams.\nBecause under Idaho law the testimony of an accomplice must be corroborated by other evidence, the prosecution was counting on Adams' testimony to back up Orchard's confession. Adams' renunciation of his confession greatly weakened the prosecution's case against Haywood, who was found not guilty of the Steunenberg assassination. Pettibone was later also found not guilty in a separate trial. Moyer was released. \n\nHarry Orchard pled guilty of the murder of Frank Steunenberg and sentenced to death, but the sentence was commuted. Orchard would spend the rest of his life in prison.\n\nSome believed that the WFM would retaliate with violence against its enemies in the court cases. This belief was strengthened between the Haywood and Adams trials when ex-sheriff Harvey Brown, who had arrested Adams, was killed by a bomb set to explode when he opened his front gate - very similar to the setup Harry Orchard used to assassinate ex-governor Steunenberg. Another prospective witness in the Adams trial, Archie Phillips, found ten pounds of dynamite behind his house, and fled to Canada to avoid testifying. A number of other prosecution witnesses disappeared or put themselves out of reach of subpoenas.\n\nAdams took the witness stand in his own murder trial and testified, in part,\n\nI was taken to the office of the penitentiary and introduced to detective McParland. He told me about \"Kelly the Bum\" [from McParland's Molly Maguires case] and other men who had turned state's evidence and had been set free. ... McParland told me he wanted to convict [WFM leaders] Moyer, Haywood, Pettibone, St. John, and Simpkins, whom he called 'cut-throats.' If I did not help to convict them, he said, I would be taken back to Colorado and either hanged or mobbed. If I did help, I would only be taken to Colorado as a witness. ... When the confession was made, McParland led me on a step-by-step and showed me all they wanted me to say. ... He wanted the names of the officers of the Federation used as much as possible all through the confession.\nMcParland's own reports to Idaho Governor Gooding confirm Steve Adams' courtroom statements.\n\nAdams described how information from the question and answer session with McParland, with the Pinkerton detective guiding him from \"notes in his pocket,\" had been typed and returned to him in the form of a narrative document which he was required to sign. The narrative was written in a form that was not consistent with Adams' manner of speech. The document ended with, \"I hope that the reign of terror inaugurated by Moyer, Haywood and Pettibone...will cease.\"\n\nAdams also claimed that Orchard had colluded with McParland to rewrite his own confession because \"he could not repeat it the second time anything at all like the first one.\" However, Fremont Wood, the presiding judge in both the Haywood and Pettibone trials, was highly impressed by the way Orchard held up under prolonged and severe cross-examination in each trial, and believed Orchard's testimony to be true. In Wood's experience, no one could have fabricated such a convoluted story, covering many years, in many locations, and including so many different people, and withstand such thorough cross-examination without materially contradicting himself.\n\nIt was L.J. \"Jack\" Simpkins, also known as J. Simmons, who accompanied Harry Orchard to Caldwell, but left before former governor Stuenenberg was assassinated. Simpkins was the WFM executive board member with responsibility for Idaho. The Pinkerton Agency produced a poster offering a two thousand dollar reward for his arrest, but \"some skeptics believed that he was actually a Pinkerton agent provocateur.\" The allegations appear to have been unfounded.\n\nAt one point in the trial of Bill Haywood, McParland thought to frighten Moyer into testifying against Haywood and Pettibone by alleging that Pettibone had urged Orchard and Adams to kill Moyer. The plan was not carried out because McParland came up with an alternative plan. But the alternative scheme failed when Moyer refused to accept the bait.\n\nAdams was not found guilty of the murder. He was tried three times altogether, and both trials in Idaho ended in hung juries. Yet he would still face a trial for his life in Colorado.\n\nIn the Colorado trial of Steve Adams, attorney Orrin N. Hilton challenged the legality of Adams' confession. McParland testified, and so did the Pinkerton stenographer who took down the confession. The stenographer admitted that McParland directed him what to take down, and what to leave out. The stenographer also confirmed that the confession was not written in language attributable to the defendant, and that sometimes \"the substance of the conversation\" was added in at a later time. The judge considered the issue overnight. In court the next day, he cited McParland's own testimony about the threat of hanging, and the promise of reward — freedom in return for a confession — which McParland routinely used in obtaining confessions. The judge ruled that the confession was gained illicitly, and the confession itself was barred. The judge ruled, however, that witnesses could attest to what Steve Adams had admitted in their presence. The information provided by the witnesses was contradictory, incomplete, and in some cases appeared to come from newspaper accounts.\n\nIn fact, Steve Adams had been accused of involvement in two murders in Colorado, one of which never happened. \n\nIn her research for the book \"The Corpse On Boomerang Road, Telluride's War On Labor 1899-1908,\" MaryJoy Martin uncovered an elaborate scheme by mine owners and their supporters to blame the Telluride, Colorado, local of the Western Federation of Miners with a string of murders for which there was no evidence. Newspapers printed articles about how the murders allegedly occurred, and named union officials who had committed the crimes. The mine owners, the local sheriff, and James McParland of the Pinkerton Agency used the accusations of murder to publicize an alleged \"reign of terror\" as a means of destroying the union. One allegedly deceased victim, William J. Barney, was a mine guard who simply had disappeared from his job. In spite of elaborate and detailed chronologies of the murder that were printed in the local newspapers, Barney was still alive. However, this fact wasn't known to the jury sitting in judgment of Steve Adams. \n\nEven so, it wasn't long before the jury decided that testimony by Bulkeley Wells, manager of the Smuggler-Union Mining Company, who had sought the conviction and execution of Western Federation of Miners leaders for years, was not credible. Wells had constructed a scenario under which Steve Adams committed the murder with a shotgun. The jury, mostly area farmers, were intimately familiar with shotguns. The murder scenario, in their judgment, was impossible.\n\nThe jury deliberated for an hour before taking a straw poll. They were unanimous; the defendant was not guilty. After three years in prison, Steve Adams was set free.\n\n"}
{"id": "54245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54245", "title": "Technological singularity", "text": "Technological singularity\n\nThe technological singularity (also, simply, the singularity) is the hypothesis that the invention of artificial superintelligence (ASI) will abruptly trigger runaway technological growth, resulting in unfathomable changes to human civilization.\n\nAccording to this hypothesis, an upgradable intelligent agent (such as a computer running software-based artificial general intelligence) would enter a \"runaway reaction\" of self-improvement cycles, with each new and more intelligent generation appearing more and more rapidly, causing an intelligence explosion and resulting in a powerful superintelligence that would, qualitatively, far surpass all human intelligence.\n\nStanislaw Ulam reports a discussion with John von Neumann \"centered on the accelerating progress of technology and changes in the mode of human life, which gives the appearance of approaching some essential singularity in the history of the race beyond which human affairs, as we know them, could not continue\". Subsequent authors have echoed this viewpoint.\n\nI. J. Good's \"intelligence explosion\" model predicts that a future superintelligence will trigger a singularity.\n\nEmeritus professor of computer science at San Diego State University and science fiction author Vernor Vinge said in his 1993 essay \"The Coming Technological Singularity\" that this would signal the end of the human era, as the new superintelligence would continue to upgrade itself and would advance technologically at an incomprehensible rate.\n\nFour polls, conducted in 2012 and 2013, suggested that the median estimate was a 50% chance that artificial general intelligence (AGI) would be developed by 2040–2050.\n\nIn the 2010s, public figures such as Stephen Hawking and Elon Musk expressed concern that full artificial intelligence could result in human extinction. The consequences of the singularity and its potential benefit or harm to the human race have been hotly debated.\n\nAlthough technological progress has been accelerating, it has been limited by the basic intelligence of the human brain, which has not, according to Paul R. Ehrlich, changed significantly for millennia. However, with the increasing power of computers and other technologies, it might eventually be possible to build a machine that is more intelligent than humans.\n\nIf a superhuman intelligence were to be invented—either through the amplification of human intelligence or through artificial intelligence—it would bring to bear greater problem-solving and inventive skills than current humans are capable of. Such an AI is referred to as Seed AI because if an AI were created with engineering capabilities that matched or surpassed those of its human creators, it would have the potential to autonomously improve its own software and hardware or design an even more capable machine. This more capable machine could then go on to design a machine of yet greater capability. These iterations of recursive self-improvement could accelerate, potentially allowing enormous qualitative change before any upper limits imposed by the laws of physics or theoretical computation set in. It is speculated that over many iterations, such an AI would far surpass human cognitive abilities.\n\nThe intelligence explosion is a possible outcome of humanity building artificial general intelligence (AGI). AGI would be capable of recursive self-improvement leading to rapid emergence of ASI (artificial superintelligence), the limits of which are unknown, at the time of the technological singularity.\n\nI. J. Good speculated in 1965 that artificial general intelligence might bring about an intelligence explosion. He speculated on the effects of superhuman machines, should they ever be invented: \nGood's scenario runs as follows: as computers increase in power, it becomes possible for people to build a machine that is more intelligent than humanity; this superhuman intelligence possesses greater problem-solving and inventive skills than current humans are capable of. This superintelligent machine then designs an even more capable machine, or re-writes its own software to become even more intelligent; this (even more capable) machine then goes on to design a machine of yet greater capability, and so on. These iterations of recursive self-improvement accelerate, allowing enormous qualitative change before any upper limits imposed by the laws of physics or theoretical computation set in.\n\nA superintelligence, hyperintelligence, or superhuman intelligence is a hypothetical agent that possesses intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human minds. \"Superintelligence\" may also refer to the form or degree of intelligence possessed by such an agent. John von Neumann, Vernor Vinge and Ray Kurzweil define the concept in terms of the technological creation of super intelligence. They argue that it is difficult or impossible for present-day humans to predict what human beings' lives would be like in a post-singularity world.\n\nTechnology forecasters and researchers disagree about if or when human intelligence is likely to be surpassed. Some argue that advances in artificial intelligence (AI) will probably result in general reasoning systems that lack human cognitive limitations. Others believe that humans will evolve or directly modify their biology so as to achieve radically greater intelligence. A number of futures studies scenarios combine elements from both of these possibilities, suggesting that humans are likely to interface with computers, or upload their minds to computers, in a way that enables substantial intelligence amplification.\n\nSome writers use \"the singularity\" in a broader way to refer to any radical changes in our society brought about by new technologies such as molecular nanotechnology, although Vinge and other writers specifically state that without superintelligence, such changes would not qualify as a true singularity.\n\nMany prominent technologists and academics dispute the plausibility of a technological singularity, including Paul Allen, Jeff Hawkins, John Holland, Jaron Lanier, and Gordon Moore, whose law is often cited in support of the concept.\n\nMost proposed methods for creating superhuman or transhuman minds fall into one of two categories: intelligence amplification of human brains and artificial intelligence. The means speculated to produce intelligence augmentation are numerous, and include bioengineering, genetic engineering, nootropic drugs, AI assistants, direct brain–computer interfaces and mind uploading. The existence of multiple paths to an intelligence explosion makes a singularity more likely; for a singularity to not occur they would all have to fail.\n\nWhether or not an intelligence explosion occurs depends on three factors. The first, accelerating factor, is the new intelligence enhancements made possible by each previous improvement. Contrariwise, as the intelligences become more advanced, further advances will become more and more complicated, possibly overcoming the advantage of increased intelligence. Each improvement must be able to beget at least one more improvement, on average, for the singularity to continue. Finally the laws of physics will eventually prevent any further improvements.\n\nThere are two logically independent, but mutually reinforcing causes of intelligence improvements: increases in the speed of computation, and improvements to the algorithms used. The former is predicted by Moore’s Law and the forecast improvements in hardware, and is comparatively similar to previous technological advance. On the other hand, most AI researchers believe that software is more important than hardware.\n\nA 2017 email survey of authors with publications at the 2015 NIPS and ICML machine learning conferences asked them about the chance of an intelligence explosion. 12% said it was \"quite likely\", 17% said it was \"likely\", 21% said it was \"about even\", 24% said it was \"unlikely\" and 26% said it was \"quite unlikely\".\n\nBoth for human and artificial intelligence, hardware improvements increase the rate of future hardware improvements. Oversimplified, Moore's Law suggests that if the first doubling of speed took 18 months, the second would take 18 subjective months; or 9 external months, whereafter, four months, two months, and so on towards a speed singularity. An upper limit on speed may eventually be reached, although it is unclear how high this would be.\n, responding to Good, argued that the upper limit is relatively low;\nIt is difficult to directly compare silicon-based hardware with neurons. But notes that computer speech recognition is approaching human capabilities, and that this capability seems to require 0.01% of the volume of the brain. This analogy suggests that modern computer hardware is within a few orders of magnitude of being as powerful as the human brain.\n\nThe exponential growth in computing technology suggested by Moore's law is commonly cited as a reason to expect a singularity in the relatively near future, and a number of authors have proposed generalizations of Moore's law. Computer scientist and futurist Hans Moravec proposed in a 1998 book that the exponential growth curve could be extended back through earlier computing technologies prior to the integrated circuit.\n\nRay Kurzweil postulates a law of accelerating returns in which the speed of technological change (and more generally, all evolutionary processes) increases exponentially, generalizing Moore's law in the same manner as Moravec's proposal, and also including material technology (especially as applied to nanotechnology), medical technology and others. Between 1986 and 2007, machines' application-specific capacity to compute information per capita roughly doubled every 14 months; the per capita capacity of the world's general-purpose computers has doubled every 18 months; the global telecommunication capacity per capita doubled every 34 months; and the world's storage capacity per capita doubled every 40 months.\n\nKurzweil reserves the term \"singularity\" for a rapid increase in artificial intelligence (as opposed to other technologies), writing for example that \"The Singularity will allow us to transcend these limitations of our biological bodies and brains ... There will be no distinction, post-Singularity, between human and machine\". He also defines his predicted date of the singularity (2045) in terms of when he expects computer-based intelligences to significantly exceed the sum total of human brainpower, writing that advances in computing before that date \"will not represent the Singularity\" because they do \"not yet correspond to a profound expansion of our intelligence.\"\n\nSome singularity proponents argue its inevitability through extrapolation of past trends, especially those pertaining to shortening gaps between improvements to technology. In one of the first uses of the term \"singularity\" in the context of technological progress, Stanislaw Ulam tells of a conversation with John von Neumann about accelerating change: \n\nKurzweil claims that technological progress follows a pattern of exponential growth, following what he calls the \"law of accelerating returns\". Whenever technology approaches a barrier, Kurzweil writes, new technologies will surmount it. He predicts paradigm shifts will become increasingly common, leading to \"technological change so rapid and profound it represents a rupture in the fabric of human history\". Kurzweil believes that the singularity will occur by approximately . His predictions differ from Vinge's in that he predicts a gradual ascent to the singularity, rather than Vinge's rapidly self-improving superhuman intelligence.\n\nOft-cited dangers include those commonly associated with molecular nanotechnology and genetic engineering. These threats are major issues for both singularity advocates and critics, and were the subject of Bill Joy's \"Wired\" magazine article \"Why the future doesn't need us\".\n\nSome intelligence technologies, like \"seed AI\", may also have the potential to make themselves more efficient, not just faster, by modifying their source code. These improvements would make further improvements possible, which would make further improvements possible, and so on.\n\nThe mechanism for a recursively self-improving set of algorithms differs from an increase in raw computation speed in two ways. First, it does not require external influence: machines designing faster hardware would still require humans to create the improved hardware, or to program factories appropriately. An AI which was rewriting its own source code, however, could do so while contained in an AI box.\n\nSecond, as with Vernor Vinge’s conception of the singularity, it is much harder to predict the outcome. While speed increases seem to be only a quantitative difference from human intelligence, actual algorithm improvements would be qualitatively different. Eliezer Yudkowsky compares it to the changes that human intelligence brought: humans changed the world thousands of times more rapidly than evolution had done, and in totally different ways. Similarly, the evolution of life had been a massive departure and acceleration from the previous geological rates of change, and improved intelligence could cause change to be as different again.\n\nThere are substantial dangers associated with an intelligence explosion singularity originating from a recursively self-improving set of algorithms. First, the goal structure of the AI may not be invariant under self-improvement, potentially causing the AI to optimise for something other than was intended. Secondly, AIs could compete for the scarce resources mankind uses to survive.\n\nWhile not actively malicious, there is no reason to think that AIs would actively promote human goals unless they could be programmed as such, and if not, might use the resources currently used to support mankind to promote its own goals, causing human extinction.\n\nCarl Shulman and Anders Sandberg suggest that algorithm improvements may be the limiting factor for a singularity because whereas hardware efficiency tends to improve at a steady pace, software innovations are more unpredictable and may be bottlenecked by serial, cumulative research. They suggest that in the case of a software-limited singularity, intelligence explosion would actually become more likely than with a hardware-limited singularity, because in the software-limited case, once human-level AI was developed, it could run serially on very fast hardware, and the abundance of cheap hardware would make AI research less constrained. An abundance of accumulated hardware that can be unleashed once the software figures out how to use it has been called \"computing overhang.\"\n\nSome critics, like philosopher Hubert Dreyfus, assert that computers or machines can't achieve human intelligence, while others, like physicist Stephen Hawking, hold that the definition of intelligence is irrelevant if the net result is the same.\n\nPsychologist Steven Pinker stated in 2008:\nUniversity of California, Berkeley, philosophy professor John Searle writes:\nMartin Ford in \"The Lights in the Tunnel: Automation, Accelerating Technology and the Economy of the Future\" postulates a \"technology paradox\" in that before the singularity could occur most routine jobs in the economy would be automated, since this would require a level of technology inferior to that of the singularity. This would cause massive unemployment and plummeting consumer demand, which in turn would destroy the incentive to invest in the technologies that would be required to bring about the Singularity. Job displacement is increasingly no longer limited to work traditionally considered to be \"routine.\"\n\nTheodore Modis and Jonathan Huebner argue that the rate of technological innovation has not only ceased to rise, but is actually now declining. Evidence for this decline is that the rise in computer clock rates is slowing, even while Moore's prediction of exponentially increasing circuit density continues to hold. This is due to excessive heat build-up from the chip, which cannot be dissipated quickly enough to prevent the chip from melting when operating at higher speeds. Advancements in speed may be possible in the future by virtue of more power-efficient CPU designs and multi-cell processors. While Kurzweil used Modis' resources, and Modis' work was around accelerating change, Modis distanced himself from Kurzweil's thesis of a \"technological singularity\", claiming that it lacks scientific rigor.\n\nOthers propose that other \"singularities\" can be found through analysis of trends in world population, world gross domestic product, and other indices. Andrey Korotayev and others argue that historical hyperbolic growth curves can be attributed to feedback loops that ceased to affect global trends in the 1970s, and thus hyperbolic growth should not be expected in the future.\n\nIn a detailed empirical accounting, \"The Progress of Computing\", William Nordhaus argued that, prior to 1940, computers followed the much slower growth of a traditional industrial economy, thus rejecting extrapolations of Moore's law to 19th-century computers.\n\nIn a 2007 paper, Schmidhuber stated that the frequency of subjectively \"notable events\" appears to be approaching a 21st-century singularity, but cautioned readers to take such plots of subjective events with a grain of salt: perhaps differences in memory of recent and distant events could create an illusion of accelerating change where none exists.\n\nPaul Allen argues the opposite of accelerating returns, the complexity brake; the more progress science makes towards understanding intelligence, the more difficult it becomes to make additional progress. A study of the number of patents shows that human creativity does not show accelerating returns, but in fact, as suggested by Joseph Tainter in his \"The Collapse of Complex Societies\", a law of diminishing returns. The number of patents per thousand peaked in the period from 1850 to 1900, and has been declining since. The growth of complexity eventually becomes self-limiting, and leads to a widespread \"general systems collapse\".\n\nJaron Lanier refutes the idea that the Singularity is inevitable. He states: \"I do not think the technology is creating itself. It's not an autonomous process.\" He goes on to assert: \"The reason to believe in human agency over technological determinism is that you can then have an economy where people earn their own way and invent their own lives. If you structure a society on \"not\" emphasizing individual human agency, it's the same thing operationally as denying people clout, dignity, and self-determination ... to embrace [the idea of the Singularity] would be a celebration of bad data and bad politics.\"\n\nEconomist Robert J. Gordon, in \"The Rise and Fall of American Growth: The U.S. Standard of Living Since the Civil War\" (2016), points out that measured economic growth has slowed around 1970 and slowed even further since the financial crisis of 2008, and argues that the economic data show no trace of a coming Singularity as imagined by mathematician I.J. Good.\n\nIn addition to general criticisms of the singularity concept, several critics have raised issues with Kurzweil's iconic chart. One line of criticism is that a log-log chart of this nature is inherently biased toward a straight-line result. Others identify selection bias in the points that Kurzweil chooses to use. For example, biologist PZ Myers points out that many of the early evolutionary \"events\" were picked arbitrarily. Kurzweil has rebutted this by charting evolutionary events from 15 neutral sources, and showing that they fit a straight line on . \"The Economist\" mocked the concept with a graph extrapolating that the number of blades on a razor, which has increased over the years from one to as many as five, will increase ever-faster to infinity.\n\nDramatic changes in the rate of economic growth have occurred in the past because of some technological advancement. Based on population growth, the economy doubled every 250,000 years from the Paleolithic era until the Neolithic Revolution. The new agricultural economy doubled every 900 years, a remarkable increase. In the current era, beginning with the Industrial Revolution, the world’s economic output doubles every fifteen years, sixty times faster than during the agricultural era. If the rise of superhuman intelligence causes a similar revolution, argues Robin Hanson, one would expect the economy to double at least quarterly and possibly on a weekly basis.\n\nThe term \"technological singularity\" reflects the idea that such change may happen suddenly, and that it is difficult to predict how the resulting new world would operate. It is unclear whether an intelligence explosion of this kind would be beneficial or harmful, or even an existential threat, as the issue has not been dealt with by most artificial general intelligence researchers, although the topic of friendly artificial intelligence is investigated by the Future of Humanity Institute and the Machine Intelligence Research Institute.\n\nWhile the technological singularity is usually seen as a sudden event, some scholars argue the current speed of change already fits this description.\n\nIn addition, some argue that we are already in the midst of a major evolutionary transition that merges technology, biology, and society. Digital technology has infiltrated the fabric of human society to a degree of indisputable and often life-sustaining dependence.\n\nA 2016 article in \"Trends in Ecology & Evolution\" argues that \"humans already embrace fusions of biology and technology. We spend most of our waking time communicating through digitally mediated channels... we trust artificial intelligence with our lives through antilock braking in cars and autopilots in planes... With one in three marriages in America beginning online, digital algorithms are also taking a role in human pair bonding and reproduction\".\n\nThe article further argues that from the perspective of the evolution, several previous Major Transitions in Evolution have transformed life through innovations in information storage and replication (RNA, DNA, multicellularity, and culture and language). In the current stage of life's evolution, the carbon-based biosphere has generated a cognitive system (humans) capable of creating technology that will result in a comparable evolutionary transition.\n\nThe digital information created by humans has reached a similar magnitude to biological information in the biosphere. Since the 1980s, \"the quantity of digital information stored has doubled about every 2.5 years, reaching about 5 zettabytes in 2014 (5x10^21 bytes).\n\nIn biological terms, there are 7.2 billion humans on the planet, each having a genome of 6.2 billion nucleotides. Since one byte can encode four nucleotide pairs, the individual genomes of every human on the planet could be encoded by approximately 1x10^19 bytes. The digital realm stored 500 times more information than this in 2014 (see fgure). The total amount of DNA contained in all of the cells on Earth is estimated to be about 5.3x10^37 base pairs, equivalent to 1.325x10^37 bytes of information.\n\nIf growth in digital storage continues at its current rate of 30–38% compound annual growth per year, it will rival the total information content contained in all of the DNA in all of the cells on Earth in about 110 years. This would represent a doubling of the amount of information stored in the biosphere across a total time period of just 150 years\".\n\nIn February 2009, under the auspices of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), Eric Horvitz chaired a meeting of leading computer scientists, artificial intelligence researchers and roboticists at Asilomar in Pacific Grove, California. The goal was to discuss the potential impact of the hypothetical possibility that robots could become self-sufficient and able to make their own decisions. They discussed the extent to which computers and robots might be able to acquire autonomy, and to what degree they could use such abilities to pose threats or hazards.\n\nSome machines are programmed with various forms of semi-autonomy, including the ability to locate their own power sources and choose targets to attack with weapons. Also, some computer viruses can evade elimination and, according to scientists in attendance, could therefore be said to have reached a \"cockroach\" stage of machine intelligence. The conference attendees noted that self-awareness as depicted in science-fiction is probably unlikely, but that other potential hazards and pitfalls exist.\n\n claims that there is no direct evolutionary motivation for an AI to be friendly to humans. Evolution has no inherent tendency to produce outcomes valued by humans, and there is little reason to expect an arbitrary optimisation process to promote an outcome desired by mankind, rather than inadvertently leading to an AI behaving in a way not intended by its creators (such as Nick Bostrom's whimsical example of an AI which was originally programmed with the goal of manufacturing paper clips, so that when it achieves superintelligence it decides to convert the entire planet into a paper clip manufacturing facility). \n\nAnders Sandberg has also elaborated on this scenario, addressing various common counter-arguments. AI researcher Hugo de Garis suggests that artificial intelligences may simply eliminate the human race for access to scarce resources, and humans would be powerless to stop them. Alternatively, AIs developed under evolutionary pressure to promote their own survival could outcompete humanity.\n\nA significant problem is that unfriendly artificial intelligence is likely to be much easier to create than friendly AI. While both require large advances in recursive optimisation process design, friendly AI also requires the ability to make goal structures invariant under self-improvement (or the AI could transform itself into something unfriendly) and a goal structure that aligns with human values and does not automatically destroy the human race. An unfriendly AI, on the other hand, can optimize for an arbitrary goal structure, which does not need to be invariant under self-modification.\n\nEliezer Yudkowsky proposed that research be undertaken to produce friendly artificial intelligence in order to address the dangers. He noted that the first real AI would have a head start on self-improvement and, if friendly, could prevent unfriendly AIs from developing, as well as providing enormous benefits to mankind.\n\nOne hypothetical approach towards attempting to control an artificial intelligence is an AI box, where the artificial intelligence is kept constrained inside a simulated world and not allowed to affect the external world. However, a sufficiently intelligent AI may simply be able to escape by outsmarting its less intelligent human captors.\n\nStephen Hawking said in 2014 that \"Success in creating AI would be the biggest event in human history. Unfortunately, it might also be the last, unless we learn how to avoid the risks.\" Hawking believes that in the coming decades, AI could offer \"incalculable benefits and risks\" such as \"technology outsmarting financial markets, out-inventing human researchers, out-manipulating human leaders, and developing weapons we cannot even understand.\" Hawking believes more should be done to prepare for the singularity:\n\nIn a hard takeoff scenario, an AGI rapidly self-improves, \"taking control\" of the world (perhaps in a matter of hours), too quickly for significant human-initiated error correction or for a gradual tuning of the AGI's goals. In a soft takeoff scenario, AGI still becomes far more powerful than humanity, but at a human-like pace (perhaps on the order of decades), on a timescale where ongoing human interaction and correction can effectively steer the AGI's development.\n\nRamez Naam argues against a hard takeoff by pointing out that we already see recursive self-improvement by superintelligences, such as corporations. For instance, Intel has \"the collective brainpower of tens of thousands of humans and probably millions of CPU cores to.. design better CPUs!\" However, this has not led to a hard takeoff; rather, it has led to a soft takeoff in the form of Moore's law. Naam further points out that the computational complexity of higher intelligence may be much greater than linear, such that \"creating a mind of intelligence 2 is probably \"more\" than twice as hard as creating a mind of intelligence 1.\"\n\nJ. Storrs Hall believes that \"many of the more commonly seen scenarios for overnight hard takeoff are circular – they seem to assume hyperhuman capabilities at the \"starting point\" of the self-improvement process\" in order for an AI to be able to make the dramatic, domain-general improvements required for takeoff. Hall suggests that rather than recursively self-improving its hardware, software, and infrastructure all on its own, a fledgling AI would be better off specializing in one area where it was most effective and then buying the remaining components on the marketplace, because the quality of products on the marketplace continually improves, and the AI would have a hard time keeping up with the cutting-edge technology used by the rest of the world.\n\nBen Goertzel agrees with Hall's suggestion that a new human-level AI would do well to use its intelligence to accumulate wealth. The AI's talents might inspire companies and governments to disperse its software throughout society. Goertzel is skeptical of a very hard, 5-minute takeoff but thinks a takeoff from human to superhuman level on the order of 5 years is reasonable. He calls this a \"semihard takeoff\".\n\nMax More disagrees, arguing that if there were only a few superfast human-level AIs, they wouldn't radically change the world, because they would still depend on other people to get things done and would still have human cognitive constraints. Even if all superfast AIs worked on intelligence augmentation, it's not clear why they would do better in a discontinuous way than existing human cognitive scientists at producing super-human intelligence, although the rate of progress would increase. More also argues that a superintelligence would not transform the world overnight, because a superintelligence would need to engage with existing, slow human systems to accomplish physical impacts on the world. \"The need for collaboration, for organization, and for putting ideas into physical changes will ensure that all the old rules are not thrown out overnight or even within years.\"\n\nIn his 2005 book, \"The Singularity is Near\", Kurzweil suggests that medical advances would allow people to protect their bodies from the effects of aging, making the life expectancy limitless. Kurzweil argues that the technological advances in medicine would allow us to continuously repair and replace defective components in our bodies, prolonging life to an undetermined age. Kurzweil further buttresses his argument by discussing current bio-engineering advances. Kurzweil suggests somatic gene therapy; after synthetic viruses with specific genetic information, the next step would be to apply this technology to gene therapy, replacing human DNA with synthesized genes.\n\nK. Eric Drexler, one of the founders of nanotechnology, postulated cell repair devices, including ones operating within cells and utilizing as yet hypothetical biological machines, in his 1986 book Engines of Creation.\n\nAccording to Richard Feynman, it was his former graduate student and collaborator Albert Hibbs who originally suggested to him (circa 1959) the idea of a \"medical\" use for Feynman's theoretical micromachines. Hibbs suggested that certain repair machines might one day be reduced in size to the point that it would, in theory, be possible to (as Feynman put it) \"swallow the doctor\". The idea was incorporated into Feynman's 1959 essay \"There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom.\"\n\nBeyond merely extending the operational life of the physical body, Jaron Lanier argues for a form of immortality called \"Digital Ascension\" that involves \"people dying in the flesh and being uploaded into a computer and remaining conscious\".\n\nIn his 1958 obituary for John von Neumann, Ulam recalled a conversation with von Neumann about the \"ever accelerating progress of technology and changes in the mode of human life, which gives the appearance of approaching some essential singularity in the history of the race beyond which human affairs, as we know them, could not continue.\"\n\nIn 1965, Good wrote his essay postulating an \"intelligence explosion\" of recursive self-improvement of a machine intelligence. \n\nIn 1981, Stanisław Lem published his science fiction novel \"Golem XIV\". It describes a military AI computer (Golem XIV) who obtains consciousness and starts to increase his own intelligence, moving towards personal technological singularity. Golem XIV was originally created to aid its builders in fighting wars, but as its intelligence advances to a much higher level than that of humans, it stops being interested in the military requirement because it finds them lacking internal logical consistency.\n\nIn 1983, Vernor Vinge greatly popularized Good's intelligence explosion in a number of writings, first addressing the topic in print in the January 1983 issue of \"Omni\" magazine. In this op-ed piece, Vinge seems to have been the first to use the term \"singularity\" in a way that was specifically tied to the creation of intelligent machines:\nwriting\nIn 1985, in \"The Time Scale of Artificial Intelligence\", artificial intelligence researcher Ray Solomonoff articulated mathematically the related notion of what he called an \"infinity point\": if a research community of human-level self-improving AIs take four years to double their own speed, then two years, then one year and so on, their capabilities increase infinitely in finite time.\n\nVinge's 1993 article \"The Coming Technological Singularity: How to Survive in the Post-Human Era\", spread widely on the internet and helped to popularize the idea. This article contains the statement, \"Within thirty years, we will have the technological means to create superhuman intelligence. Shortly after, the human era will be ended.\" Vinge argues that science-fiction authors cannot write realistic post-singularity characters who surpass the human intellect, as the thoughts of such an intellect would be beyond the ability of humans to express.\n\nIn 2000, Bill Joy, a prominent technologist and a co-founder of Sun Microsystems, voiced concern over the potential dangers of the singularity.\n\nIn 2005, Kurzweil published \"The Singularity is Near\". Kurzweil's publicity campaign included an appearance on \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\".\n\nIn 2007, Eliezer Yudkowsky suggested that many of the varied definitions that have been assigned to \"singularity\" are mutually incompatible rather than mutually supporting. For example, Kurzweil extrapolates current technological trajectories past the arrival of self-improving AI or superhuman intelligence, which Yudkowsky argues represents a tension with both I. J. Good's proposed discontinuous upswing in intelligence and Vinge's thesis on unpredictability.\n\nIn 2009, Kurzweil and X-Prize founder Peter Diamandis announced the establishment of Singularity University, a nonaccredited private institute whose stated mission is \"to educate, inspire and empower leaders to apply exponential technologies to address humanity's grand challenges.\" Funded by Google, Autodesk, ePlanet Ventures, and a group of technology industry leaders, Singularity University is based at NASA's Ames Research Center in Mountain View, California. The not-for-profit organization runs an annual ten-week graduate program during summer that covers ten different technology and allied tracks, and a series of executive programs throughout the year.\n\nIn 2007, the joint Economic Committee of the United States Congress released a report about the future of nanotechnology. It predicts significant technological and political changes in the mid-term future, including possible technological singularity.\n\nFormer President of the United States Barack Obama spoke about singularity in his interview to \"Wired\" in 2016:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55684", "title": "Time-out (parenting)", "text": "Time-out (parenting)\n\nTime-out is a form of behavioral modification that involves temporarily separating a person from an environment where unacceptable behavior has occurred. The goal is to remove that person from an enriched, enjoyable environment, and therefore lead to extinction of the offending behavior. It is an educational and parenting technique recommended by most pediatricians and developmental psychologists as an effective form of discipline. Often a corner (hence the common term \"corner time\") or a similar space where the person is to stand or sit during time-outs is designated. This form of discipline is especially popular in western cultures.\n\nIn the UK, the punishment is often known as the naughty chair or naughty step. This term became popular in the US thanks to two reality TV series, \"Supernanny\" and \"Nanny 911\".\n\nThe concept of time-out was invented, named, and used (see Child Magazine, 2006, \"20 People who Changed Childhood\") by Arthur W. Staats in his extended work with his daughter (and later son), and was part of a long-term program of behavioral analysis beginning in 1958 that treated various aspects of child development. He introduced various elements that later composed foundations for applied behavior analysis and behavior therapy. (The token reward system was another invention by him.) Montrose Wolf, a graduate student assistant of Staats on several studies dealing with reading learning in preschoolers (see, for example, \"The conditioning of textual responses using 'extrinsic' reinforcers\"), used that background when he went to the University of Washington where he began his creative program of research. Wolf began the widespread use of Staats' time-out procedure in extending training methods to an autistic child (see the 1964 published study dealing with the behavioral treatment of a child).\n\nStaats described the discipline of his 2-year-old daughter in 1962: \"I would put her in her crib and indicate that she had to stay there until she stopped crying. If we were in a public place [where her behavior was inappropriate], I would pick her up and go outside.\" .\n\nFor Staats, the timeout period was ended when the child's misbehavior, such as crying inappropriately, ended. He considered removal from a positive emotional environment to one of lesser positivity as a very mild punishment. Various people have added their opinions regarding time-out as the following indicates.\n\nTime out is a type two punishment procedure and is used commonly in schools, colleges, offices, clinics and homes. To implement time out, a caregiver removes the child from a reinforcing activity for a short period of time, usually 5 to 15 minutes, in order to discourage inappropriate behavior and teach the child that engaging in problem behavior will result in decreased access to reinforcing items and events in the child's environment.\n\nTime-outs may be on a chair, step, corner, bedroom, or any other location where there are no distractions and reduced access to fun items, activities and people. This procedure is preferable to other punishments such as reprimanding, yelling at or spanking the child for their misbehavior, which are type one punishments (positive punishment).\n\nResearch has established that 15 minutes is the maximum time that a child should be kept in time out from reinforcers. However, shorter durations may be just as effective for behavior change.\n\nFor this disciplinary technique to be most effective and to produce the desired results, the child should be old enough to sit still and is required to remain there for a fixed period. Also, according to developmental psychologists, parents should evaluate each situation to determine what may be causing the misbehavior, such as a toy, frustration, hunger, or lack of sleep, and then address any underlying needs before a punishment contingency should be used. Any time they are trying to reduce a problem behavior, parents should be sure that they are also teaching and reinforcing the desired replacement behavior. Parents should also clearly explain why the child is being put in time out, and what the child needs to do to return to the reinforcing environment/be let out of time-out (but too much explanation can reinforce the unwanted behavior as a result of \"misplaced adult attention\"). Furthermore, the renown developmental psychologist Kathleen Stassen Berger suggests that time-out should remain brief, proposing a general guideline: the length of time that the child should remain in time-out should correlate with the child's age - each of year of the child's age constitutes one minute in time-out.\n\nTime-out is one behavior control method based on removing positive reinforcement for a brief time. Less elaborate methods from the same class like tactical ignoring, or planned ignoring, also can be effective in cases where parental/caregiver attention is the positive reinforcement for negative behavior. This class of methods are more effective if the child gets a significant amount positive reinforcement (praise, attention) for good behavior. All punishment procedures can evoke other problem behaviors, damage rapport, or evoke escape or avoidant behaviors. For this, and other ethical reasons, behavior analysts exhaust all options for using differential reinforcement and/or extinction procedures to reduce problem behavior, before considering the use of punishment procedures.\n\nSeveral studies show that time-out is an especially effective disciplinary strategy, reducing aggressive and non-compliant behavior, when other positive parenting methods are also used. Time out must be linked with \"time in\" in order to be effective because children need to be able to find reinforcement through positive experiences.\n\nThere are differences between strategies for ending time out. While some proponents of time-outs insist on silence and stillness from the child during the time-out, it is easier to use a \"release-contingency,\" such that the requirement is only that the child is sitting peacefully at the end of the time-out period. Those who use time-out for children to get anger and frustration \"out of their system\" or for children to think about their behavior are using time-out in a way that is different than those basing it on operant behavioral principles (that time-out from positive reinforcement may reduce recurrences of the unwanted target behavior).\n\nIn a study by Donaldson and Vollmer, the efficacy of a fixed duration time-out and a release contingency time-out were compared. In the fixed duration condition, children were sent to time-out for a total of 4 minutes and were released from time-out whether or not they performed problem behavior during the time-out session. In the release contingency condition, children were not released from time-out if they were performing problem behavior during the last 30 seconds of their time-out. The time-out was extended until there were no occurrences of problem behavior for a total of 30 seconds or until the time-out reached the ten-minute mark. Results showed that both time-out procedures were successful in reducing the problem behavior for the subjects. The subjects in the release contingency did not benefit from staying in time-out for an extended period of time either. Moreover, the results show that only 4 minutes is necessary for a successful time-out procedure.\n\nThe effectiveness of time-out also varies with each individual child, dependent on the child's age, temperament and emotional wellness.\n\nCritics of time-out include Thomas Gordon, Gabor Mate, Alfie Kohn and Aletha Solter, who claim that the approach may lead to short-term compliance but has the same disadvantages as other forms of punishment. According to these authors, the use of time-out does not enhance moral behavior or teach children useful conflict-resolution skills and it fails to address the underlying cause of the behavior. Furthermore, they claim that the parent/child bond can be damaged by forced isolation and withdrawal of love in an effort to control a child's behavior and this can lead to feelings of insecurity or anxiety in children, though there is no evidence that this occurs. Another argument is that time-out, like all other methods of coercive control, eventually stops working as children grow older and begin to rebel against their parents’ authoritarian approach to discipline.\n\nIn addition to the potential psychological drawbacks resulting from the use of time-out, there also appears to be a risk to the child's developing brain, according to research in neuroscience by Daniel J. Siegel. “In a brain scan, relational pain (that caused by isolation during punishment) can look the same as physical abuse,” and “Repeated experiences actually change the physical structure of the brain.” However, Dr. Siegel backed away from this statement and claimed that Time Magazine distorted his message. He later clarified, \"The “appropriate” use of time-outs calls for brief, infrequent, previously explained breaks from an interaction used as part of a thought-out parenting strategy that is followed by positive feedback and connection with a parent. This seems not only reasonable, but it is an overall approach supported by the research as helpful for many children.\"\n\nThe Australian Association for Infant Mental Health has published a position statement in which the use of time-out is considered inappropriate, especially for children under three years of age, which matches with most professional advice.\n\nThe use of time-out needs to be carefully considered in families dealing with special challenges. In a review of parenting intervention programs for drug-abusing mothers, researchers found that programs emphasizing behavioral approaches to discipline (such as the use of time-out and rewards) “were not successful in fostering measurable improvement in mother-child interactions or promoting child development.” An attachment-based approach focusing on strengthening the parent/child relationship was found to be more successful than behavioral approaches in changing children's behavior in these families.\n\nOther studies have found that the traditional behavioral approach to discipline (such as the use of time-out and rewards) can be challenging with children in foster care with attachment disorders resulting from early abuse or neglect. Foster parents benefit from training that addresses these children's attachment and emotional issues, as wells as traditional parenting techniques.\n\nTime-out has been misused to the point of becoming abusive in some schools and so proper training for educational professionals is important. There are reported cases of children being locked in closets for extended periods of solitary confinement for behaviors such as crying or failing to finish an assignment. These are not examples of appropriate use of time-out.\n\n"}
{"id": "12896287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12896287", "title": "Vihangamyoga", "text": "Vihangamyoga\n\nVihangam Yoga is an ancient meditation technique practiced by Indian seers and sages. In the current time, it is established by Sadguru Sadafaldeo Ji Maharaj. Vihangam Yoga is also known as \"Brahmavidya\", \"Madhu-vidya\", \"Para Vidhya\" in the Indian ancient most scriptures and Vedas. \"Vihangam\" literally means \"bird\". Just as a bird leaves its base on the earth to fly high in the sky, so does \"Vihangam Yoga\" enable the human Soul (Atma) to cut off its moorings in the Prakriti (phenomenal world) and realize its true and free nature . \nThis knowledge is emerged from Brahma so it is also named as Brahma Vidya and who ever has gained this knowledge by practising it called Brahma Rishi. Through the Vihangam Yoga meditation, one easily raises his soul's energy to open \"Kundalini shakti\" (the hidden Potential in all of us) under the able guidance of a true Sadguru and attains Soul's conscious state, from where it actually starts the prayer to \"Supreme Soul\". This is a situation where the soul is in its own state i.e. it is not attached with Mann (Mind) and Prana – the true form.\n\nVihangam means a bird. As a bird floats in the air overcoming the gravitational force of the earth, so does the consciousness of the Atma float in the limitless space of pure consciousness leaving behind its physical base i.e. body, mind and intellect. To distinguish it from various prevalent physical, mental and spiritual practices, which also go by the name of Yoga, the Vedic Yoga is called Vihangam Yoga or Sahaja Yoga.\n\nIn Vihangam Yoga the mind is lifted to its source, the Akshara Brahma where it is permanently quietened, just like a river losing its identity in the ocean. Once the soul is freed from bondage of the mind, it realises its true nature and stops identifying itself with the human body. In fact, the soul then acts as the master and guides the mind and the body in the way it likes. Having realised the futility of worldly pleasures, derived through the sense organs and their objects, it soars higher in search of the Absolute Bliss (Paramananda). It is then only that the real meditation of Vihangam Yoga starts, terminating in Samādhi, the ultimate aim of Yoga of meeting with the Supreme Soul. In this state the soul has attained liberation while residing in the body itself (Jivanmukti).\n\nThe literal meaning of the word 'Yoga' is union. Vihangam Yoga is defined as the union of Atma with Paramatma. This union is achieved after Atma frees itself from the shackles of the mind and intellect and attains its pure conscious state. The Supreme Soul is a purely conscious entity and is beyond the reach of the mind and intellect. The mind and intellect are inert by themselves and are activated by the consciousness of the soul. An inert object cannot reach a conscious entity, far less unite with or merge in it. Therefore, the physical yogas cannot reach the ideal of Vihangam Yoga.\n\nThis yoga was also taught to Arjuna by the Lord Krishna In the celebrated Hindu Scripture Bhagwad Gita during the Mahabharata period, some five thousand years ago. This has called Brahma Vidya in the Gita and the Upanishads.\n\nThe divine knowledge of Vihangam Yoga disappeared gradually after the Mahabharata period. It was revived by the real mystic saint, Kabir, more than five hundred years ago.\n\nIn recent times it was rediscovered by the great Swami Sadafal Deoji Maharaj of village Pakari of Ballia District of Indian state Uttar Pradesh (U.P.).The entire knowledge that he gained in the state, of Samadhi of Vihangam Yoga has been described fully and systematically by him in his unique spiritual work SWARVEDA, a book of couplets describing all aspects of spiritual practice in simple language. A detailed commentary has been written by his successor and son, Acharya Dharam Chandra Deoji Maharaj, and had been published from Adhyatmic Yantralaya, Garhwar; District Ballia, U.P.\n\nThe Vihangam yogis of today are verifying the experiences described therein just in the same way as was done during the Vedic period.\n\nModern science believes in objects perceived by sense organs with or without the help of various gadgets. Human sense organs are bound by severe limitations. The eyes and ears can see and hear only within a limited spectrum. Scientists discovered, an eagle's eye or a dog's ears can see or hear beyond human capabilities (ref. Eagle eye and Hearing range). This holds good for other sense organs like those of smell, taste or touch. With the help instruments, which are being invented from time to time, man has been able to extend his perception beyond natural human mind and intellect have also made deductions from certain phenomena occurring in the world. This has led to formulation of many hypotheses from time to time. These hypotheses have been changing since the dawn of civilization and will keep on changing till man is able to realize the truth. The modern scientists have observed that the universe is continuously expanding and this expansion is thought to be due to the process of creation of the universe. The scientists say that the universe will ultimately cease to expand and then the gravitational force will play its role to reduce it again to a cosmic egg (The Theory of Big Bang).\n\nThe scientists have put forward the theory of oscillating universe, which states that the cycles of creation and, dissolution will continue endlessly, a well-known Indian concept. What they call 'Cosmic egg' has been termed by the ancient Indian seers as Mool Prakriti, which is said to be composed of three basic substances, viz. Sattwa, Rajas and Tamas. These three substances combine in different proportions during creation giving rise to a variety of physical objects. This is analogous to the scientific knowledge that the atoms, which the physical objects are composed of, consist of three fundamental particles known as electrons, protons and neutrons and atoms of one object differ from those of the other only in the number and combination of these fundamental particles.\n\nAccording to modern science the basic forces are four, viz. gravitational, electromagnetic and the strong nuclear force and weak nuclear force, which influence motion in particles and bodies and determine the interrelation among them. What is the origin of these forces? What is that which causes explosion in the cosmic egg? Is there a ruling power, which regulates the movement of stars and the galaxies in this universe whose vastness could be imagined by the presumption (based on no evidence at all) that there are galaxies so far away that light, traveling at the speed of three hundred thousand kilometers per second, has not yet reached our earth? The scientific method shows the most promise for finding answers to these questions; certainly more so than ancient fantasy-based mysticism.\n\nOur sages of vote have discovered answers to these queries. The technique they employed was basically different from that used by the scientists, and therefore more a development of philosophy than a description of physical reality. Unlike the scientists, they neither attempted to develop equipment to bring the universe within the perceiving powers of their sense organs, nor did they invent super computers powerful enough to aid their mental faculties. On the contrary, the ancient spiritualists, rejecting investigation into how the universe actually works, mastered a technique of withdrawing the flow of consciousness from the senses, mind, and intellect and thus, supposedly, realized \"the pure conscious form of their real selves\". The pure conscious form of an individual is called Atma or the Self, and the state in which it that the Atma(soul) is realized is called Samadhi(deep meditation) . They discovered that Atma when freed from the bondage of body and mind has great potential power much beyond the concept of modern science. The knowledge gained after dissociating the conscious self from the phenomenal world in the state of Samadhi was verified over and over again for a long span of time by a number of great seers, called Rishis. They handed down their observations to their followers, generation after generation. These observations are codified in the four Vedas and they have not been improved upon or falsified by modern scientists. In fact, the more the science progresses, the more does it come nearer to the recordings in the Vedas.\n\nThe Vedic Rishis experienced during their Samadhi, a primordial Being, supremely conscious and superbly blissful. It is called Parama Akshara, Parama Brahma or Paramatma. When the Atma unites itself with the Paramatma, it is able to imbibe the qualities of Paramatma. An iron ball put in the fire of a furnace becomes a glowing red mass of fire itself. Similarly, when the finitely conscious Atma merges with the infinitely conscious Paramatma, it becomes an all-knowing entity and thus acquires the complete knowledge of the entire existence.\n\nThe technique of achieving the union of Atma and Paramatma is called Yoga in the Vedic sense of the term (yoga literally means union). To distinguish it from various prevalent physical, mental and spiritual practices, which also go by the name of Yoga, the Vedic yoga is called Vihangam Yoga or Sahaja Yoga. It was this yoga that Lord Krishna taught to Arjuna In the celebrated work Bhagwad Gita during the Mahabharata period, some five thousand years ago. This has called Brahma Vidya in the Gita and the Upanishads. The divine knowledge of Vihangam Yoga disappeared gradually after the Mahabharata period. The real mystic saint, Kabir, revived it more than five hundred years ago. In recent times the great Swami Sadafal Deoji Maharaj of village Pakari of Ballia District of U.P rediscovered it. The entire knowledge that he gained in the state, of Samadhi of Vihangam Yoga has been described fully and systematically by him in his unique spiritual work SWARVEDA, a book of couplets describing all aspects of spiritual practice in simple language. A detailed commentary has been written by his successor and son, Acharya Dharam Chandra Deoji Maharaj, and had been published from Adhyatmic Yantralaya, Garhwar; District Ballia, U.P. The Vihangam yogis of today are verifying the experiences described therein just in the same way as was done during the Vedic period.\n\n\"REFER SWARVEDA A SPIRITUAL ENCYCLOPEDIA\"\nThe basic eternal existences are six in number. They are, Paramatma or Parama Purusha (the Supreme Being), Akshara Brahma (the Cosmic Executor), Atma (the Soul), Nitya Anadi Sadguru (the Eternal Spiritual Guide), Prakriti (Nature) and Kaal (Time concept). As they are eternal, there was never a time when they did not exist and there will never be a time when they will cease to exist, and thus they have no beginning and no end.\n\nThe first four of the above entities are- conscious or sentient while the last two, viz. Prakriti and Kaal are insentient. The conscious beings are those, which possess the faculties of knowledge, desire and action. Of the two insentient entities, devoid of these faculties, Prakriti is inert and Kaal is neither conscious nor inert.\nThe forms and characteristics of the six eternal entities have been described in detail in the great spiritual work 'SWARVEDA' of Sadguru Sadafal Deo Ji Maharaj. A brief description of each of these entities is presented.\n\nThe supreme – Being (Parama Purusha) is omniscient, omnipotent and the base of\neverything that exists. He is also known as Supreme Soul (Paramatma), Supreme\nBrahma (Para Brahma), and Supreme Word (Sar Shabda) and by various other\nnames. He has been described as Sat-chit-ananda i.e. one who is eternally\nexistent, infinitely conscious and supremely blissful. He is the subtlest of all the\nsubtle and pervades every substance, every soul and the entire universe. He is the\ninternal soul of all the souls. The universe exists in only one-fourth of Him. The\nremaining three-fourths is pure nectarine bliss. He is eternal, unchangeable and\ninexpressible. He has been called the Supreme Word or the Unique Light in the\nVedas. He is the Lord, the Support, the illuminer, the Regulator and the Witness of\neach and every activity in the universe.\n\nThat which creates, sustains and dissolves the universe is Akshara Brahma. All the physical forces as well as mind and Pranas (the life forces) originate from Akshara Brahma. Scientifically speaking, the Akshara Brahma is responsible for 'big bang' in the 'cosmic egg' from which the process of creation starts. The motion in particles is imparted by it. As a matter of fact, all the activities in the world are solely due to it. It is thus the preserver of the world. When the Akshara Brahma withdraws its forces, all the motions cease and the universe collapses to a point, the cosmic egg of modem science. That is what we call dissolution. Like the Supreme Being, it is also eternal unchangeable and pervades the whole universe. It functions under the command of the Supreme Being and is and is confined to one-fourth of Him, where the creation, regulation and dissolution of the universe take place.\n\nThere is only one Supreme Brahma. There is only one Akshara Brahma as well. But the- souls are innumerable. Though bliss is not the intrinsic quality of a Soul, it possesses the other two qualities like those of the Supreme Being, viz. eternal existence and consciousness. However, there are two, basic differences between the two. Firstly, the consciousness of a soul is limited whereas that of the Supreme Soul is unlimited. Secondly, while the Paramatma remains in one and the same form with its consciousness not undergoing any change, the consciousness of a soul attains different levels in the six states it is known to exist.\n\nThe six states in one of which a soul exists are Hansa Deha (super-conscious state), Kaivalya Deha (conscious state), Mahakarana Deha (prime causal state), Karana Deha (causal state), Sukshma Deha (subtle body) and Sthoola Deha (gross body). The Atma is capable of associating itself with Paramatma. In the association of Paramatma the soul's consciousness increases infinitely and at the same time it is a supreme bliss of His. It thus acquires all the qualities of Supreme Being. This is the super conscious state of Atma. In this state there is likelihood that a soul may delude itself to be identical with the Supreme Being. This deluded state of the soul is called its Kaivalya state.\n\nA soul is always a soul it never becomes Brahma. A piece of iron fallen in fire becomes red and starts glowing like it. But soon as it is taken out of fire, it gradually loses its qualities of fire and becomes an iron piece again. Kaivalya state meets with a similar fate. As soon as the ego of I am Brahma crops up in the soul, it no longer cares to remain in the zone of nectarine bliss and tends to move towards the zone of creation. When this tendency becomes firm, the soul is said to be in the prime causal state, and finally when it actually enters the zone of creation, it attains the causal state. When it wishes to enjoy worldly pleasures, it acquires a subtle body, which enters into the mother's womb through male and female union and comes out in the manifested world in a gross body.\n\nThe gross body is equipped with five sense organs (viz. ears, skin, eyes, tongue and nose) to receive sensations of sound, touch, form, taste and odour and five organs of actions (viz. tongue, hands, feet, genital and anus) to perform the functions of speech, grasp, motion, reproduction and excretion. In addition, there are four inner organs, viz. mind, intellect, Chitta and ego. Of these fourteen organs mind is the most important, since it activates and controls all other organs it is the mind through which the consciousness of the soul flows in different organs of the body. The intellect is endowed with discriminating power. The memories of past actions and various desires and tendencies of the soul are impressed on the Chitta. The ego is responsible for the constant feeling of 'I am the doer' in all actions that one performs. To provide energy to the body and its various organs for their proper functioning, five life forces, called Pranas act incessantly in the body. These life forces are Prana (respiration), Vyana (blood circulation), Samana (digestion), Apana (excretion) and Udana. The last one provides the energy for transplanting the subtle body in the mother's womb and also for separating the, subtle body from the gross body at the end of life. The five Pranas as well as the ten outer organs and four inner organs are all present in the subtle body in seed form.\n\nThe gross body passes through the stages of birth, childhood, adolescence, youth, senility and death. 'The death', is the separation of the subtle body from the gross body. In the gross body the soul experiences the different worldly pleasures, which are short lived and invariably followed by misery. It goes through the cycle of love and hate, love for the pleasurable objects and hate for those, which give pain. It indulges itself in various actions to fulfill its desires. Each desire feeds and multiples on other desires. The Atma in the subtle body takes another birth in one of the millions of species depending on the desires and tendencies of the previous lives imprinted on the Chitta. The process is repeated ad infinitum and the soul finds itself shackled in the endless chain of births and deaths. The soul forgets its real nature and identifies itself with its body. When it finds the miseries of its unbearable and craves to find a way out, another, conscious entity, the Eternal Sadguru, begins to guide him on the path of salvation.\n\nThe Eternal Sadguru is the messenger of Paramatma. Brahma Vidya (the Divine Wisdom) emanates from Him and he is the Lord of the spiritual domain. In the beginning of the creation, he is sent by the Supreme Being into the world with the light of spiritual knowledge. His only mission is to awaken the suffering souls of the world from the sleepy state of ignorance by shedding upon them the divine light. He liberates the craving and deserving souls from the bondage of Prakriti and enables them to enjoy the nectarine bliss of the Supreme Being. When the current of the spiritual knowledge of the Eternal Guru flows in the soul of a human being, the status of Rishi or Maharshi is attained. The knowledge of Brahma Vidya or Vihangam Yoga, which is found in the Veda the Upanishads, and other holy books is solely due to him. He has been addressed as Sukrit Deo, Atri, Jyoti, Aj and the Sanatan in the Vedas. He has also been mentioned in the Upanishads as Amanava Purusha (Super human being). The Eternal Sadguru sermonize the spiritual practitioners and the real devotees in his manifested or un-manifested form. He can take a human form when he wills.\n\nWhen humans become too much engrossed in the, allurements of Prakriti and tend to deviate from the true path, of spiritualism, the Eternal Sadguru appears in the world in a human form to salvage the souls. Sometimes he inspires a liberated soul to take a human form and propagate the divine knowledge of Vihangam Yoga. Such a great soul possesses full spiritual knowledge right from his birth and is called a \"Swayam Siddha Sadguru\". Sometimes the Eternal Guru appears before an industrious yogi and guides him to perfection. Such a great yogi is granted the authority to act as a Sadguru. Such a Sadguru is called the \"Abhyasa Sadguru\". There is only one Sadguru at one period of time that carries the authority of the Eternal Sadguru to propagate Brahma Vidya (Vihangam Yoga or Sahaja Yoga). Once a soul has been authorised by the Eternal Sadguru to act as a world preceptor (Jagadguru), he can hand over the science of Brahma Vidya and the authority to propagate it to his progeny or any other deserving disciple. Such a Sadguru is called the \"Parampara Sadguru\". This science of Brahma Vidya can thus be propagated generation after generation, even though the science is one and the way of attainment is also one that has been taught and authorised by the Eternal Sadguru.\n\nThe knowledge of the phenomenal world, the various sciences and arts of the world, are being taught by different teachers who gain their knowledge from books or experiences with the help of different scientific Instruments. The knowledge so acquired is related to the material universe and the senses. Brahma Vidya or Yoga is knowledge beyond the senses and cannot be studied from books or from a Guru who has not been given the authority by the Eternal Sadguru. This stream of knowledge flows from the Eternal Sadguru through the Sadguru only. Nobody can proclaim himself a, Sadguru by dint of his vast erudition or knowledge of scriptures. The scriptures only hint at the path of righteousness, but they cannot lift up a soul to liberation from the bondage of Prakriti. For this a Sadguru is essential. He uses his soul force to elevate the aspiring soul beyond Prakriti. It is then only that the Yoga Practitioner realises his true self (Atma). The Atma only in its true detached form is capable of real worship of the Supreme Soul (Bhajan). By assiduous worship (Bhajan), the Atma gets united to the Paramatma, the ultimate aim of yoga.\n\nSince the worship of the formless Paramatma is not practical, devotion to the Sadguru is the only way to achieve the ultimate goal. The Sadguru has no worldly desires, has nothing to get from the disciple, and hence he comes to the world to fulfill his mission of helping the aspirant to choose the correct path and then guide him through the practice of yoga. The problem, which arises, is that of meeting the Sadguru. For that there must be a burning desire to get liberation from the worldly bondage (vairagya). Those who seek gratification of the senses can never turn in this direction. Once the desire for liberation is kindled, one seeks a Sadguru.\n\nIn one's search one may come across a number of half- baked Gurus who teach some kind of mental relaxation, which does give some mental peace but nothing beyond that. Having attained some tranquility one gets stuck up. The Guru is unable to take the disciple beyond that. Some self-proclaimed Gurus who can show some miracles, which are mostly sleight of hand, impress people and get recognition. There are others who are well versed in scriptures and get a good following by dint of their erudition. The soul force of the Sadguru is utterly lacking in them. They lead the disciples astray resulting ultimately in disappointment. Some cheat posing as Gurus, make a business out of Gurudom. With an increasing number of such Gurus, the aspirant may face some difficulty in finding the Sadguru, but will ultimately find him if he has a burning desire.\n\nThe Sadguru himself looks for deserving and seeking Atmas. There is then a meeting of souls and the Sadguru is glad to lead such souls to their ultimate goal. The aspirant may not recognise the Sadguru but the Sadguru might have instructed him in the science of Brahma Vidya in his previous lives. The Sadguru can easily recognise such souls and gladly guides them to further heights. It is futile to ask the Sadguru for material achievements because that is not a function of the Sadguru. He is there to guide the souls to reach the Supreme Soul, the abode of eternal bliss.\n\nAll the insentient objects in the universe are composed of one basic substance called Nature or Prakriti. Prakriti Maya and Paramanu are synonymous. Prakriti consists of three gunas - Sattwa, Rajas and Tamas, whose characteristics are illumination, activity and inertia or sluggishness respectively. Guna (in the context of Prakriti) means constituent and not attribute as called by some authors. The three gunas or constituents of Prakriti are basic substances, which do not exist independently when there is no creation, nature or Prakriti exists in its seed (or cosmic egg) form, which is called Mool Prakriti. In Mool Prakriti the three gunas remain in balance and do not interact.\n\nThe creation starts with the vibration in the Mool Prakriti. As a result of the vibration, the gunas of Prakriti combine in different proportions to give, rise to a variety of substances. Each guna is present in active or dormant form in all the substances created. The gunas of Prakriti are analogous with the fundamental particles of atom. According to science, all the physical substances are made up of atoms consisting of electrons, protons and neutrons in specific numbers. The properties of the fundamental particles are similar to those of gunas. Furthermore, the creation of universe a result of a 'big bang' in the cosmic egg, and the theory of oscillating universe propounded by modem science, is strikingly similar to the views of great Indian seers.\n\nWhile modern science is ignorant as to the agency responsible for 'big bang' in the cosmic egg, the Indian Rishis say that it is the Akshara Brahma who imparts vibration in Mool Prakriti and thus starts the creation of the universe. In the process of creation, five basic elements are first created. They are Akasha (space), Vayu (air), Agni (fire), Jala (water) and Prithivi (earth). They are listed here in their decreasing order of subtleness and their respective qualities are sound (Shabda), touch (Sparsha), form (Roopa), taste (Rasa) and smell (Gandha). All objects are made of these five subtle elements. Our five senses are created to receive the five different sensations of the five basic elements. All parts of our bodies are manifestations of Prakriti, except mind and Pranas, which originate from Akshara Brahma.\n\nGiven two events, we can always say whether one of them occurred earlier, later or simultaneously. The concept, on which the chronological order of events is based, is called Kaal (Time). Time is an abstract entity and is conceived only through the changes that take, place around us. The Prakriti (Nature) undergoes a continuous transformation or change right from the moment of the creation of the universe till its dissolution. These changes indicate the incessant flow of time. Even during the dissolution when no change, whatever, occurs, time does not cease to exist. Like all other conscious and inert objects, time concept also rests with the Supreme Being who decides the duration of the dissolution based on this concept alone. Time is thus an eternal entity.\n\nAmong the nine kinds of elements mentioned in his Vaisesika System, the great Seer Kanada has postulated time as a substance. Kaal Shukta finds mention in Atharva Veda. It is time under whose fold the galaxies are mobile and the entire universe is cycling. \"Time is neither conscious nor inert\". Still years throughout the world, more as a means to promote the entire zone of creation is ruled by it. The birth and death, inhalation and exhalation and all the experiences of pleasure and pain occur in the domain of time. The soul becomes free from the wheel of time only when it is liberated from the bondage of Prakriti by the technique of Vihangam Yoga under the guidance of a Sadguru.\n\nYoga has been gaining recognition and popularity in recent time under whose fold healthy living rather than spiritual attainment. To this end a number of Indian yogis are engaged in teaching yogic exercises such as Asanas and Pranayama. Some forms of meditations and other practices of very recent origins are also being taught in the name of yoga. Hatha Yoga, Mantra Yoga, Laya Yoga and Raja Yoga are some of the various kinds of yoga, which are popular in India. These are physical or Prakritic yogas. They are practiced at the physical level of body, mind, intellect and Pranas and develop their powers appreciably. The ultimate aim of yoga as propounded in the Vedas and the Upanishads is to unite the individual soul (Atma) with the Supreme Soul (Paramatma). This highest form of yoga is called Vihangam Yoga or Brahma Vidya. The knowledge of Vihangam Yoga had disappeared for the last five hundred years and was revived by Sadguru Swami Sadafal Deoji Maharaj in the first half of last century.\n\nThe literal meaning of the word 'Yoga' is union. Vihangam Yoga is defined as the union of Atma with Paramatma. This union is achieved after Atma frees itself from the shackles of the mind and intellect and attains its pure conscious state. The Supreme Soul is a purely conscious entity and is beyond the reach of the mind and intellect. The mind and intellect are inert by themselves and are activated by the consciousness of the soul. An inert object cannot reach a conscious entity, far less unite with or merge in it. Therefore, the physical yogas cannot reach the ideal of Vihangam Yoga. Vihangam means a bird. As a bird floats in the air overcoming the gravitational force of the earth, so does the consciousness of the Atma float in the limitless space of pure consciousness leaving behind its physical base i.e. body, mind and intellect. The cessation of mental activities has been defined as Yoga Patanjali. This is the definition of Raja Yoga, prominent among the physical yogas. Raja Yoga preludes to Vihangam Yoga. In other words, Vihangam Yoga begins where Raja Yoga ends. Maharshi Patanjali in his Yoga Darshan has described eight limbs of yoga.\nThey are:\n\nIt is a self-imposed code of good conduct in one's relation to other beings in general and to the human society in particular. It includes Ahimsa (not to hurt anybody thoughts, words or deeds), Satya (truthfulness), Asteya (not to usurp anybody's property), Brahmacharya (celibacy in thoughts and deeds) and Aparigraha (not to hoard things beyond one's needs)\n\nIt is concerned with purification of one's body and self. It includes Shoucha (external and internal cleanliness), Santosha (contentment), Tapa (religious austerity), Swadhyaya (study of scriptures) and Ishwar Pranidhana (devotion and surrender to the Almighty).\n\nThese are various yogic postures, which help to keep the body supple\nand strong. They include the different Bandhs and Mudras, which keep the internal\norgans toned up, and help in concentration of mind.\n\nThese are practices involving regulation of breath. These enhance the performance of the respiratory and circulatory systems and help to control the mind.\n\nIt is withdrawal of sense organs from the sense objects.\n\nMann bandhe so dharana (Controlling the mind at a point is called Dharana)\n\nIt means meditation with unbroken attention on the object of concentration.\n\nIt is the complete absorption of one's self in the object of meditation. Here there is complete absence of one's identity, which has merged in its goal. In the highest stage of Raja Yoga or Ashtanga Yoga (eight-limbed yoga) of Patanjali, that is Samadhi, the cessation of all mental activities is achieved. Thus it does not reach the ultimate aim of yoga viz. the union of the individual self with the Supreme Self. This is achieved through Samādhi of Vihangam Yoga only.\n\nIn Vihangam Yoga the mind is lifted to its source, the Akshara Brahma where it is permanently quietened, just like a river losing its identity in the ocean. Once the soul is freed from bondage of the mind, it realises its true nature and stops identifying itself with the human body. In fact, the soul then acts as the master and guides the mind and the body in the way it likes. Having realised the futility of worldly pleasures, derived through the sense organs and their objects, it soars higher in search of the Absolute Bliss (Paramananda). It is then only that the real meditation of Vihangam Yoga starts, terminating in Samadhi, the ultimate aim of Yoga of meeting with the Supreme Soul. In this state the soul has attained liberation while residing in the body itself (Jivanmukti).\n\nAs already stated in the previous chapter, Atma, in the association of Paramatma, assumes all His qualities. In this state if it develops egotism and identifies itself with the Paramatma, it meets with its downfall to the zone of Prakriti, degrading itself successively to the states of Kaivalya, Mahakarana, Karana, Sukshma, and lastly to the gross body. Once the Atma takes on a body it has to perform actions in thoughts, words or deeds. The various actions performed by the soul through mind and other bodily organs, bear fruits and lead to the cycle of births and deaths. The law of Karma (action) is inevitable. Whatever action is done has to bear fruit, if not in this life, in the lives to come.\n\nKarma has been classified as Sanchita (hoarded), Prarabdha (actions motivating the present life) and Kriyamana (actions performed in the present life).\nThe law of karma explains many enigmas of life. Why is a person born with a silver spoon in his mouth while another under tragic circumstances? Why should two persons born of the same parents and reared under identical conditions shape so differently in life? Why should newborn children behave differently? Why should two identical twins possess different natures? It is because the different souls in the different bodies have to reap the fruits of actions performed by them in previous lives. There is no escape from that. There is nothing, which happens by chance. The orderly way in which the vast universe is run cannot simply be a matter of chance or independent happenings. The Supreme Soul is the great co-coordinator and judge who preside over all happenings in this world and beyond.\n\nThe three Gunas of Prakriti-Sattwa, Rajas and Tamas bound the soul to worldly action. The more engrossed it becomes in Prakriti, the less it realises its true nature and its identity separate from the mind and the body. The deluded soul wanders from one birth to another propelled by the three Gunas of Prakriti and the law of Karma. As soon as there is a burning desire in the self to get liberated from worldly bondage and it submits in all humility to the Sadguru, the reverse journey of the soul towards its real abode starts. By the yogic practices under the guidance of a Sadguru, there is a gradual and successive detachment of the soul from Prakriti and it comes back to its own conscious form. It then devotes itself to the Supreme Being and achieves supreme bliss.\n\nIn the first stage of yogic practice, the soul detaches its consciousness from the external world and associates itself with the subtle body. In the next stage the mind, intellect and Pranas are left behind and then there is dissociation from the subtle body also. Subsequently, the soul dissociates itself from all its relationship with the three Gunas of Prakriti and then the causal body is separated from it. In this yogic state, the soul acquires unlimited strength and brilliance. For attainment of peace and bliss, the soul must be free not only from the physical association, but also from the latent impressions of this association.\n\nWhen the worldly impressions from the soul are rooted out and annihilated in the next stage of yoga, there is a separation of Mahakarana state. The yogi can now sit firmly in complete and unbroken Samadhi and obtain bliss of the Supreme Being. In the Samadhi the Soul acquires the qualities of Brahma due to its association with Him just as an iron ball acquires the properties of fire when it is associated with the fire. In this state a feeling of 'I am the Brahma' develops in the soul. This is Kaivalya state of the Soul. This ego in the soul is due to ignorance and is the main cause of its downfall. So this ego must be discarded through the practice of yoga. In the highest state of yoga, a feeling of relationship between the soul and the Supreme Being as that of a master and servant develops. The soul then attains its purest state of Hansa Deha. In the state of Samadhi, the yogi dives in the infinite ocean of supreme bliss while living in the body, which is the ultimate aim of yoga.\n\nVihangam Yoga, also known as Sahaja Yoga or Madhu Vidya, is the ancient, science of conscious entities described in the Vedas, the Upanishads and the Gita. This was the only art or science of yoga known to the Rishis who practiced and taught to their disciples through the ages. By a lapse of time the science was lost and later fragments of this yoga appeared in the form of Raja Yoga, Hatha Yoga, Kundalini Yoga, Karma Yoga, Bhakti Yoga, Gyana Yoga, Laya Yoga and a host of others. When the soul becomes associated with Prakriti, mind and its associated senses, different views and notions appear which have given rise to various yogas and its distortions. Vihangam Yoga is the mother of all these ramifications and can be taught only by the Sadguru who is empowered by the original Sadguru, a conscious force described in the Vedas as 'Messenger', Sukrit, Atri, Amanava Purusha or Munindra. While a host of Gurus have appeared, who are teaching various yogas, claiming benefits for the practitioners, it is only the Sadguru of Vihangam Yoga who claims to take- the liberated soul to the Supreme Soul, the Paramatma.\n\nHatha yoga, by means of the various Asanas, Pranayama, bandhs and mudras aims at awakening of the Kundalini. This is achieved in Vihangam Yoga in no time because the knowledge of the eight Chakras or the Psychic centres in the body and the Kundalini become clear-cut by a short practice of this yoga. The Hatha Yogi may take a lifetime of arduous practice to achieve the same result. Mantra Yoga and Tantra Yoga depend on the repetition of certain code words as Mantra which absorbs the practitioner's mind so deeply that he forgets the world but they are all done at the mental level which is a part of Prakriti and remains with the Prakriti. Vihangam Yoga starts with concentrating the mind but gradually takes the mind up to its source, the Akshara Brahma where it loses its hold on the soul. It is then only that the soul becomes free to leave the bondage of Prakriti and rises up to its master, the Paramatma. By mental acrobatics, arguments and discussions, it is not possible to free the soul from this bondage. It is only by the realisation of the true nature of the freed soul and its master that the ultimate aim of Yoga is fulfilled.\n\nKarma Yoga, Bhakti Yoga and Gyana Yoga are all small fragments of Vihangam Yoga. They automatically come to the Vihangam Yogi in one lot. In fact, by complete knowledge of the reality of Atma, Paramatma and Prakriti and their qualities, whatever the liberated soul does is Karma Yoga and his devotion to Paramatma from the purely conscious level is real Bhakti Yoga. Discussions and arguments about the Superiority of Karma, Bhakti or Gyana Yoga are mere mental exercises, which do not take the aspirant any further. Learned scholars have written many volumes but they have been mental giants only and not developed souls. A soul, which has realised the truth, knows and practices all these three Yogas and has no doubts in his mind about these various Yogas and hence does not indulge in these discussions. He is a Gyana Yogi, a Bhakti Yogi and a Karma Yogi, all in one.\n\nOne of the paths by which the union of the Individual soul with the Supreme Soul can be achieved is Gyana Yoga. Gyana means the realisation of the true nature of the Supreme Soul, the individual soul and the Prakriti. Knowledge as we ordinarily comprehend, comprises ideas assimilated by the human mind by means of the various sense organs, the eyes, the ears, the nose, the palate and the skin. This may be obtained by direct contact with the objects of the world or by being narrated by a reliable person who has first-hand information.\n\nIn modem Science various gadgets are being used to gather information, which are not obtainable directly through the sense organs. With all the aids available at present or which scientists, might invent later, the information we gather is all about the inert materials of the universe. We might succeed in collecting all the knowledge of the inert material world but the conscious elements can never be known by using inert instruments. Only conscious entities can delve into the realms of the conscious. Though the consciousness of the Supreme Soul pervades all matter, inert as well as conscious, it can-only be known by the conscious entities like the individual souls. Thus, a complete knowledge (Gyana) is not possible through the sense organs, the mind or the intellect. They are capable of knowing only the material universe. The conscious elements like the Atma and the Paramatma being subtle are capable of complete knowledge.\n\nThe Atma (individual soul), though it activates, and illuminates the mind and sense organs, has so to say, forgotten its potentiality and lost its subtlety in association with the inert mind, body and intellect. It has the nature of identifying itself with the individual mind and through it to the organs of the body. It takes part in the various actions and has to bear the fruits of the actions. When the mind leads it to pleasurable actions, as a natural sequence, it takes part in the painful part of the effect also. It thus carries this burden of actions from one body to another by the inexorable law of Karma. The Atma thus keeps on identifying itself with the different embodied forms and does not realise its free conscious nature. In this state it does not have the capacity to grasp the true character of the Supreme Soul which remains the unknowable, incomprehensible entity as described by the different scriptures.\n\nWhen the Atma realises its true nature which is free from the mind and body, in an unalloyed conscious form, it is quite capable of comprehending the Supreme Soul which always stays in its pure form unaffected by actions and-mental processes even though pervading everything. In this pure state the Atma gains correct knowledge of the phenomenal world also as an observer. This is the process of Gyana Yoga. The complete knowledge of the phenomenal world by all possible scientific means leaves our knowledge only incomplete. By all these means, the conscious field is not touched at all even though its presence cannot be denied in everyday working of the phenomenal world.\nThe final step in Gyana Yoga is, therefore, to free the Atma from its affection by the mind which is ever turbulent. The different systems of yoga aim at making the mind tranquil. This may be achieved by different methods of concentration but this achievement is only temporary. The mind springs back to activities as soon as concentration ends and tends to run towards the objects of sensual gratification. It is only when the mind is taken to its source of energy, the Akshara (Hiranyagarbha), that it calms down and then only the Atma can free itself from its association with the mind. The Atma in its pure state of consciousness, then, is able to conceive the true nature of the Supreme Atma as well as the phenomenal world and gets true knowledge (Gyana).\n\nGyana Yoga has different meanings in diverse schools of thought. One school starts with the assumption that the Supreme Almighty, Immanent Soul is the only reality and the rest of existence is an illusion, Maya. According to them, the individual souls are non-existent and so is the universe. In that we have to deny whatever we perceive by the senses or intellect as well as our own existence. If we are already the Sat-chit-ananda, there should not be any illusion or suffering which seems to be as real as the palms of our hands. Why should the all-knowing Supreme Self-have any illusion at all? Maya can only occur to a soul who is not omniscient. To ascribe ignorance to the Almighty Supreme Soul is the very denial of His powers. If the individual soul is supposed to be just a chunk of the Supreme Soul, it should possess all the qualities of the Supreme Soul just as a drop of water has the same properties as a river from where it is taken. In fact we find that the human soul suffers pleasure and pain so long it is attached to the body. A chunk of sat-chit-ananda should not suffer any pain by its very nature. In that case any effort to reach the Supreme Soul should be meaningless and all the concentration and meditation becomes superfluous.\n\nAnother school of thought practices denial of everything perceived through the senses and through a process of self-hypnosis tries to establish soul's oneness with the Supreme Soul. It is a purely mental process. The effect of self-hypnosis can but be temporary while yoga aims at permanent liberation of the soul and its attachment to the source of eternal bliss, the Sat-chit-ananda.\n\nOur mind and intellect have to be used only to reach at the probable units of existence of reality. The vast universe of which we do not know even a fraction, the orderly movements occurring in the distant stars and planets for ages, only point to a conscious force which pervades, regulates and encompasses everything. No name will explain it adequately but its processes can be felt within ourselves provided we are aware of it. Otherwise what halts a person from committing a crime for the first time? What prevents a horse from treading on a toad on the road?\n\nThe mind and intellect have limited capacity and have not been able to comprehend the vastness nor the subtlety of the Supreme Soul. Our sages have perceived the Almighty Soul during the stage of Samadhi when they have left the mind and intellect behind.\n\nThe individual souls are entities separate from the, Supreme Soul and have to strive hard to reach the ultimate goal, the Sat-chit-ananda. This, the soul is incapable of knowing through the medium of mind and intellect which are meant to work in the sphere of the phenomenal world only because they are a part of the Prakriti. Gyana Yoga or knowledge of the various conscious souls when it has broken the shackles of the mind and intellect and has become capable of reaching up to the Prakriti. The soul has to realise its true nature first before knowing the Supreme Soul and once it has known the supreme Soul, it knows everything about Prakriti also which is pervaded and enveloped by the Omniscient Supreme Being.\n\nFrom time immemorial man has been worshiping one deity or another. Usually the deity was one, which was supposed to be powerful and capable of doing harm to human beings. Powerful forces of nature such as the sun, the rivers, fire, wind and rain were worshipped at sometime or another by means of different rituals. Sacrifices of animals were common as a means of propitiating these forces. The idea behind these rituals was to keep the deities appeased so that their anger may not cause harm to the human beings. The great thinkers, with their developed faculties of observation and inference from the working of nature, came to visualise an omnipotent force, which was not only regulating the working of nature, but influencing the working of the living beings also. They also indulged in the sacrificial rites and used foodstuffs and animals as offerings. Some thinkers like Mahavira and the Buddha revolted against the animal sacrifices and the dominance of the priests at the time and preached the doctrine of non-violence and correct conduct, eliminating all kinds of sacrifices. In its place they laid stress on humility of character and austerity in one's life. The followers of these saints started to worship their idols with all devotion. Since then worshiping of idols started as a common practice. Human beings started shaping their deities according to their imagination and bestowing all powers on these deities. The real nature of the omnipresent, omnipotent forces behind the working of the universe was beyond common human conception and hence the devotion to various forms of deities continued. Even those devotional practices have one virtue. They mitigate one's egotistic tendency if practiced sincerely and not as a mere rituals. Beyond this virtue little else can be achieved as well as the qualities attributed by such devotion as Bhakti. The idols and their pictures as well as the qualities attributed to them are the projections of the human mind and not representation of reality.\n\nUnless the real nature of the Supreme Soul, the individual soul and the phenomenal world (Prakriti) is known, any devotion (Bhakti) is a delusion. Thus Gyana Yoga by which this knowledge is obtained is a sine qua non for the practice of Bhakti Yoga. On the other hand, Gyana Yoga devoid of Bhakti stops the progress of the individual soul at a certain stage of development. This stage is known as Kaivalya Sharir when the soul has not shed off its egotism and identifies itself with the Supreme Soul proclaiming \"Aham Brahmasmi\" (I am Brahma). The soul is likely to have a fall at this stage again into the folds of Prakriti. The liberated soul (Jivana Mukta) should stay on in close contact with the Supreme Soul to enjoy the eternal bliss (Parama Anand). The individual soul in its innate nature must stay as a faithful servant of its masters the supreme soul. This cannot be achieved without unwavering Bhakti and devotion. Thus Gyana Yoga and Bhakti Yoga go hand in hand. Bhakti Yoga without Gyana Yoga is mere delusion and Gyana without Bhakti is an incomplete Yoga. Bhakti is the commonest form of worship or prayer being practiced in the world. It is usually an idol, a picture or a symbol, which is worshipped in nine ways viz. by hearing of the divine attributes, singing His glories, remembrance of the Almighty, devotion to His feet, His adoration, His praise, thinking Him to be the Master and the devotee in the role of friend and complete surrender of oneself to the worshipped symbol. All this leads to annihilation of the ego of the devotee that way he attains peace of mind.\n\nIn the Gita four kinds of devotees are described. Firstly those who are in distress and seek divine help secondly, those who long for wealth, thirdly those who are seekers of truth and fourthly the man of self-realisation. Of these four, the last, the Gyani has been described as the best. The other three also get what they want by sincere devotion and effort but it is the self-realised soul who gets nearest to the Supreme Soul and that is only possible through the medium of Gyana Yoga. Mere performance of rituals can at best be diversion of the mind from mundane worries for the time being. A real devotee does not forget his own self or the Supreme Self for a single moment and enjoys the ultimate bliss all the time.\n\nKarma, in common language, means action done by the individual soul on account of its contact with Prakriti and its Gunas. The tendency of all Karmas is to bind the soul to Prakriti so that the soul becomes more and more attached to Prakriti. The embodied soul has five coverings or Koshas. The first is Annamaya Kosha made of the gross matter of the body, which is formed, from the food that we eat; the second is these Pranas Kosha which is made of prana inside the body which is less gross than the outer body. Third is the Manomaya or the mental sheath which is subtler than the breath. The fourth is Vigyan Maya Kosha or the intellectual sheath. The last comes the Ananadmaya Kosha or bliss sheath, which is the subtlest form of the body.\n\nThe Karma affects all coverings according to its nature. As the soul is immortal, life is one continuous existence. When the body dies, the subtle body of the soul as its Sanchita Karma or Prarabdha Karma carries on the unfulfilled actions. The next body that the soul takes has to reap the fruits of Prarabdha Karma necessarily. It indulges in further Karmas with the body and mind, the Kriyamana Karmas, the fruits of which also have to be reaped either in that body or in future bodies. There is no action performed in association with the mind and body, which does not bear fruits. In spite of all, efforts made by the human mind to act without desiring the fruits of action, the desires and passions associated with the mind prevent it from unattached actions. The three Gunas of Prakriti force it to get attached to the desire for fruits of actions. It is only when the mind is not the guiding force behind action, that real unattached actions can be performed. Only such actions do not affect the different Koshas or layers covering the Atma and no further Kriyamana Karmas accumulate. The Prarabdha Karma, to fulfill which the soul takes on a particular body, has necessarily to be gone through. There still remains the bundle of Sanchita Karmas, which the soul has to carry. When the soul realises its pure free form by Gyana (knowledge of reality) the Sanchita Karma burnt out and the liberated soul becomes free from all the five Koshas (Layers of material body).\n\nThere is only, one way in which this liberation of the soul can be achieved. This is the way of Sahaja Yoga or Vihangam Yoga or Brahma Vidya. The practitioner of this yoga has to learn the art of service and selfless actions (Vikarma). The mind, at the same time; has to be tamed to become steady and unwavering. This unwavering mind has to be lifted up from the bonds of Prakriti by a Sadguru. Once the mind is lifted up, it merges with its source of energy, the Akshara or Hiranyagarbha. When the mind is lost in its source, the soul (Atma) is freed from the shackles of the mind and becomes free to ascend higher to the Supreme Soul. This is the Jivana Mukta stage of the soul. Now the soul can act using the mind and the body at its command (Akarma). It is only in this stage of development that real unattached actions (Akarma) can be performed. These actions are free from any passion and desire and are performed solely for the good of other souls. The Mukti (freedom) or Nirvana does not occur after the death of the body but in the body itself. This may not be possible in one life but the practitioner of Vihangam Yoga carries the experience through his subtle body to the next life where he starts at the point he left the previous body. The Sadguru is eternal and gives him further guidance. Thus the achievement is never lost.\n\nThe performance of unattached actions (Karma Yoga) is not possible unless the Atma (soul) frees itself from the bondage of Prakriti by Brahma Vidya or Vihangam Yoga and becomes a Jivana Mukta. Then it exercises full control over the mind and the body and is free from all selfish desires or passions. It resorts to only benevolent actions called Karma Yoga. Freed from all shackles, it becomes more powerful than ever and is capable of activities far beyond the capacity of ordinary mortals.\n\nWe read and hear of worldly great men being described as Karma Yogis by their admirers. They are usually workaholics who work for long hours just to earn more money or fame. Their insatiable desires goad them to strenuous work. They are just doing Sakama Karma. There are others who are devoted to social work. They are certainly a boon to society and they are loved and respected by society and it is for that reward that they work hard even neglecting their health and comforts. Much they desire to be selfless, this desire lurks in his type of action bears fruit whether done willingly or forced by circumstances. It is true that nobody can remain without indulging in some action, mental, verbal or Prakritic. Satoguna, Rajoguna and Tamsoguna force man to indulge in activity. In this state of helplessness it is best to choose actions, which have more of Satoguna than Rajoguna and Tamsoguna. By such actions, one moves on the right path of liberation. Such actions are called Vikarma. It is only when the soul stands as an observer and thinks of all actions performed by the influence of Gunas of Prakriti that is not attached to the fruits of actions and can be called Akarma Yogi. This is only possible after self-realisation.\n\nThus we find that three yogas i.e. Gyana Yoga, Bhakti Yoga and Karma Yoga are not really threefold paths to attainment of sat-chit-ananda; unless the reality is known by Gyana Yoga neither Bhakti nor Karma Yoga is possible. The attainment of full knowledge leads automatically to Nishkama Karma (Unattached Actions) and the innate nature of individual soul in relation to the Supreme Soul being of a servant and master, full knowledge is only possible by unwavering devotion (Bhakti Yoga) to Him.\n\nAs we know, the mind and the different organs of the body are themselves inert. The force of consciousness in the soul activates the mind and through it the various organs. In the waking state, this force flows out into the phenomenal worlds and gives us the knowledge of the world. The five sensory organs, the eyes, ears, nose, palate and skin as well as the five organs of action, the hands, the legs, the organs of speech, excretion and generation are all activated by the mind and so are the three internal organs intellect, chitta or memory cell and ego. Once the mind is fixed, its outward flow can be controlled consciously.\n\nAccording to the Rishis or ancient philosopher scientists of India, a perfect knowledge of all existence, inert as well as conscious, can be achieved when one has acquired the divine eye of pure consciousness after its dissociation from all the physical attachments such as, the mind, intellect, the Pranas or life force and the body. Hence the force of consciousness has to be channelised inwards willfully towards its origin. On the inward journey of the consciousness towards its origin in the mind has first to be restrained so that it may not be able to dissipate our force of consciousness.\n\nWhile we are awake the mind is situated before the eyes most of the time. So to control the mind, dissipation of the beams of consciousness oozing out through both the eyes have to be united at a point where they can converge into one ray. The spiritual scientists of the east and west have therefore stressed the prime necessity of this practice. \"\"The light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light\" says -St. Mathew in the Bible (6:2). Swarveda (1/4/30) says, \"Combine first the light of consciousness of the two eyes into a single ray, then thou shall be able to move up and there is no other way.\" The benefits that one gets by this practice are manifold. The mind is calmed and is freed from all types of tensions and anxieties. One gets the vision of the colours of the five basic elements of nature, the earth, water, fire, air and space. The breath becomes slower, thereby increasing longevity. The practitioner becomes a happier man with greater enthusiasm for work.\n\nOnce the mind is controlled with its outward flow through different organs, it is taken to a point in the forehead which is the tri junction of the three channels – the Ingla Nadi (passing through left nostril), the Pingla Nadi (through the right nostril)- and the Sushumna Nadi in the centre. Swami Sadafal Deoji says in his Swarveda (6/2) that \"at this tri junction flows the water of divine knowledge, which purifies the mind of its dotages and bestows glazing serenity to it.\" In the Bible St. John has described this experience in the following words: \"And they shall see his face; and his name shall be in their forehead. And there shall be no night there; and they need no candle, neither light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light.\" (Revelation 22:4 and 5). There are many pleasant experiences at this second level on the journey of consciousness. The mind is pacified and moves deeper inwards. The yogi hears a resounding sound like 'Om' and sees a soothing and pleasing light. He feels peaceful and starts getting a vision of the inner world. His mind is elevated to a much higher level than that of an average human being and becomes capable of achieving many divine powers.\n\nAfter perfection at this level, the consciousness is taken to a point at the top of the head called the Brahma Randra or the Tenth Gate. This is the gate through which the soul enters the human body. St. John in his Revelations has mentioned the experiences of this gate as follows: \"Behold, I stand at the door and knock, if any man bear my voice and open the door, I shall come unto him and will sup with him and be with me\" (Revelation 3:20). In Swarveda (6/2), Swami Sadafal Deo Ji says: \"A deep concentration at the tenth gate has awakened the consciousness from the slumber.\" He further says, \"The Tenth Gate is very secret. It is the gateway to the bliss of Madhumati or Brahma Vidya (the science of knowledge of Brahma). Without the grace of Sadguru, none can cross this gate and get the illumination of the Akshara Brahma.\" By concentration at this level, full control and subjugation of the mind and life force (Pranas) is achieved. The body, Pranas and mind are joined together. As we move on in this direction, we go on dissociating out consciousness from the body, Pranas and mind.\n\nAfter opening the gate, the consciousness is pulled up at a particular distance from the crown of the head by the Master of the science, the Sadguru, where the mind and Pranas dissolve in their origin, the Akshara Brahma. Here the soul's consciousness is separated from its physical chaff. It is the Akshara Brahma, which controls the creation and dissolution of the universe through its all-pervading vibratory sound. The Brahma appears in the beginning of creation and gives motion to the dormant fundamental particles of nature or Prakriti to combine and form different shapes. This \"fourth stage\" on the conscious journey makes soul's consciousness free and it is then bathed in the brilliant light of the Akshara Brahma, which did not manifest because of the Soul's association with the physical appendages. This Akshara Brahma is the creator, the preserver and the annihilator of the universe through its all-pervading vibratory sound. The Bible mentions it as \"These things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of creation of God.\" (Revelation 3: 14). Maharshi Swami Sadafal Deoji describes in Swarveda (1/2/33) thus: \"The vibration is in the Akshara Brahma which causes revolution of the creation. The Akshara appears in the beginning of the creation.\"\n\nIn some schools of yoga, concentration and meditation are practiced on certain sounds, which are produced when consciousness reaches a particular point. The concentrations on the various chakras in the body are associated with the utterances, of different Mantras or code words. Similarly the code word for different sounds produced when the life force (Pranas) reaches various points in the head are repeated by the aspirants and there ends their meditation. These audible sound are Niranjan, Om, Soham, Shakti and Rarankar which are heard when the consciousness reaches the tip of nose, the Trikuti, the Bhanwar Gupha, a spot between the Gupha and the top of the head and lastly he Brahma Randra or the tenth gate respectively. As the practitioner's consciousness reaches the head region, he also hears the Anahat sounds of varying characters, which some schools consider to be the ultimate post of the spiritual journey. In fact these sounds are only heard on the way to the Akshara Brahma and the journey stops short of the tenth gate. A Vihangam Yogi has to go beyond the tenth gate into the zone of Akshara Brahma, which is the fourth stage of the journey. The Bible also mentions about this as follows: \"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God and the word was God.\"\n\nWith the continued practice at this level of Akshara Brahma a practitioner gets the inner divine eye with which he goes to the \"fifth stage\" where he sees the all-pervading consciousness, the Supreme Brahma, God, Allah, Jehovah or Ahuja of different religious cults. The yogi perceives a brilliant yet soothing light and sound, which submerges the soul in bliss indescribable. A perfect knowledge of everything comes to him who has fixed his consciousness at this fifth and the highest level. We all know that all knowledge and power of action belongs to the soul alone and not to its inert associations. Its conscious power is very much reduced when it flows through the physical sheaths. When this conscious flow is totally separated from the inert physical impediments the capacity to know or act becomes infinitely large and this is what is expressed as superhuman powers in varying degrees in yogis at different levels of the play of consciousness. This journey of consciousness from the gross physical level up to the Para Brahma (Supreme Being) has been explicitly mentioned in the Vedas (Atharva Veda 4/3/14) as \"From the earth I ascend to the horizon, from the horizon to the lighted space, from the lighted space through subtle hole to the conscious space (Cbidakash) and from there to the Supreme Light.\" About the experiences, of the highest level St. John says (Revelation 14:2) \"And I heard a voice of a great thunder and I heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps.\" Similarly a mantra from Sama Veda (6/l/5) says \"I am bearing the powerful nectarine sound like that of torrential rainfall on all sides. The light of thunder is moving very fast over my head.\" Maharshi Sadafal Deoji writes in his Swarveda (1/3/14) \"The lotus has bloomed forth; the inner sky is thundering and roaring raining nectar all around. The conscious peacock is dancing in the secret zone of its play.\"\n\nThus we see that like any scientific investigation the results of this science of consciousness have been found to be similar whenever they have been performed correctly, whether in pre-historic ages or modem times. But there is a fundamental difference between the two sciences. In the physical science, the observation is objective whereas in this spiritual science of consciousness or what we call Para Vidya or Vihangam Yoga, it is subjective. In the first case it is external while in the latter it is internal of consciousness can be learnt and practiced. This science of consciousness can be learnt and practiced with the help of a Sadguru as has been done since the Vedic ages. This art has been handed down from the Eternal Sadguru who has been mentioned in the Vedas as Sukrit Deo, Atri, Jyoti, Amanava Purusha, Sant and Doot. Atharva Veda (10/4/8/32) mentions about this Sadguru as \"No one sees that saint who is free from death and decay though he is nearest to everybody and is constantly seeing everyone.\"\" It is this Sadguru who has been mentioned in the Bible as the Holy Ghost. Whenever he appears before a soul and grants him full knowledge and the authority to preach this science of consciousness in the world, then only he preaches it for the redemption of the deserving souls.\n\nThis science is available today for its dissemination into the whole world from Vrittikut Ashram, Village-Pakari, District-Ballia in U.P. (India.). True seekers of knowledge may learn and achieve the ultimate aim of human life.\nMaharishi Sadguru Sadafaldeo Ji Maharaj was born in the year 1888 on the fourth day of the first fortnight of Bhadrapada, of Vikram Samvat 1945. \n\nWhile still a child of two, once he sat aloof on a wooden plank and his father, mother and other elderly members of his house lay prostrate before him, as he was a great saint. People thought that the child was just making fun and they reverently touched his feet. The same boy began going to school to continue his studies. He wanted to learn Sanskrit in order to know the secret of God-realization by going through the ancient scriptures.\n\nAt the early age of eleven Sadafal went to Kashi to learn Sanskrit, but the scholars, who were Brahmins by caste, did not agree to impart him the knowledge of Sanskrit, as he hailed from a Kshatriya family. Being disappointed, boy Sadafal decided to practice Yoga, because he had heard that ancient saints and seers got invaluable and deep knowledge of everything by practicing Yoga. As a result, he sat in meditation practicing 'Unmunimudra' which Lord Krishna has taught in the Gita. Maharishi Sadafaldeo practiced his first lesson of yoga for controlling mind continuously for three years. He sat in meditation in a secluded place in Sidhasana, a yogic posture, for six hours every day.\n\nOne night, while he was meditating, he found that his room was filled up with effulgence. He also heard a sweet and soothing voice from the void. \"This won't lead you to attain the Supreme Lord, as this practice is based on material sense organs.\" Sometimes while in a state of meditation, he felt that someone put one of the fingers on the uppermost point of his head. On opening his eyes, he found none there. He could not make out who had spoken so sweetly and who had touched his head with his finger. Later on when Swamiji began practicing yoga inside his cave at Vritikoot Ashram, Pakari, he met a saint with light effulging from him, in the early hours of morning in a lovely field. This saint initiated him into the conscious technique of Vihangam Yoga and instructed him not to come out of his cave before the public until a period of six months of 'anusthan' was complete. Swamiji later on realized that the saint he had met was not a common one. He was the Eternal True Teacher, Nitya Anadi Sadguru. The Lord is Eternal and the way of realizing him is also eternal. As such the teacher teaching the scientific technique of realizing the Lord is also eternal. He is gifted with the power of materializing his body whenever he wills. He also appears in the physical form in all the four ages viz. Satyug, Tretaa, Dwapar and Kaliyug and teaches the technique of Vihangam Yoga, the only way of God-realization, to deserving aspirants.\n\nA reference to this effect has been made in the Vedas at several places.\n\n\"Twa dootam agney amritam yugey- yugey havyawaaham dadhirey paayum eedayam.\"\n\n\"Devaasah cha martasah cha jaagrivim vibhum vishwapatim namasaa nishedirey.\"\n\n- Rig Veda\n\nO Lord! Your messenger comes to this world with your nectarian message to emancipate the suffering humanity and leads it to Thee. People as well as gods can't know Him. We lay ourselves prostrate to his Holy feet.\n\nHe practiced Vihangam Yoga for seventeen long years, under the guidance of the same Eternal Sadguru, in his self-made cave at Vritikoot Ashram Pakari, Balia, in his cave at Shoonya Shikar Ashram Himalayas, at Jhoonsi Ashram (Prayag) on the bank of Ganges and at several other sacred places. He undertook a number of yoga anusthans (Continuous Practice) lasting continuously for six months. Being pleased with his great sacrifice and perseverance, Nitya Anadi Sadguru endowed him with the authority of True Teacher. In the month of Magh (two months before the Indian Festival- Holi), Eternal Sadguru blessed Maharishi Sadafaldeo Ji with the authority of Sadguru and in the process, transferred the divine Brahma Vidya Knowledge to him. It was that auspicious moment when Sadguru Sadafaldeo Ji was enlightened with the complete Brahma Vidya knowledge. Only a Sadguru has the potential to bless a disciple with the complete knowledge and authorize the disciple as next Sadguru. No one can claim himself or herself as Sadguru just by reading Vedas and other books. A Sadguru is the one who has the practical experience of Brahma Vidya and who can empower a deserved disciple with the same.\n\nSadguru Sadafaldeo Ji Maharaj has said in his unique spiritual work Swarveda\n\n\"Magh Maas shub maas hai, Ardh kumbh paryaag\"\n\n\"Sadguru sadguru pad diye, puran gyaan viraag\"\n\n- Swarveda\n\n\n"}
{"id": "319048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319048", "title": "Vinayak Damodar Savarkar", "text": "Vinayak Damodar Savarkar\n\nVinayak Damodar Savarkar (), (28 May 1883 – 26 February 1966) was an Indian politician, lawyer and writer, known for his activism for Indian independence. Savarkar coined the term \"Hindutva\" (Hinduness) to create a collective \"Hindu\" identity as an essence of Bharat (India). His political philosophy had the elements of utilitarianism, rationalism and positivism, humanism and universalism, and realism. Savarkar was also an atheist who disapproved of orthodox beliefs in all religions.\n\nSavarkar's revolutionary activities began while studying in India and England, where he was associated with the India House and founded student societies including Abhinav Bharat Society and the Free India Society, as well as publications espousing the cause of complete Indian independence by revolutionary means. Savarkar published \"The Indian War of Independence\" about the Indian rebellion of 1857 that was banned by British authorities. He was arrested in 1910 for his connections with the revolutionary group India House. Following a failed attempt to escape while being transported from Marseilles, Savarkar was sentenced to two life terms of imprisonment totaling fifty years and was moved to the Cellular Jail in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, but released in 1921 after several mercy petitions to the Britishers. \n\nWhile in prison, Savarkar wrote the work describing \"Hindutva\", espousing what it means to be a Hindu, and Hindu pride, in which he defined as all the people descended of Hindu culture as being part of Hindutva, including Buddhists, Jains and Sikhs. In 1921, under restrictions after signing a plea for clemency, he was released on the condition that he renounce revolutionary activities. Travelling widely, Savarkar became a forceful orator and writer, advocating Hindu political and social unity. Serving as the president of the Hindu Mahasabha, Savarkar endorsed the idea of India as a \"Hindu Rashtra\" and opposed the \"Quit India\" struggle in 1942, calling it a \"Quit India but keep your army\" movement. He became a fierce critic of the Indian National Congress and its acceptance of India's partition. He was accused of the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi but acquitted by the court. His role in the assassination was later established by Kapur Commission in 1969.\n\nThe airport at Port Blair, Andaman and Nicobar's capital, has been named Veer Savarkar International Airport. The commemorative blue plaque on India House fixed by the Historic Building and Monuments Commission for England reads \"Vinayak Damodar Savarkar 1883-1966 Indian patriot and philosopher lived here\".\n\nVinayak Damodar Savarkar was born in the Marathi Chitpavan Brahmin Hindu family of Damodar and Radhabai Savarkar in the village of Bhagur, near the city of Nashik, Maharashtra. He had three other siblings namely Ganesh, Narayan, and a sister named Maina. He earned the nickname \"Veer\" (Sanskrit:braveheart)when at the age of 12, he led fellow students against a rampaging horde of Muslims that attacked his village. Highly outnumbered, he inspired the boys to fight-on until the last Muslim was driven off. Later, he is known to have stated: \"Do not fear them. The Almighty is your strength, so fight, even when facing an enemy stronger than yourself\"\n\nAfter the death of his parents, the eldest sibling Ganesh, known as Babarao, took responsibility for the family. Babarao played a supportive and influential role in Vinayak's teenage life. During this period, Vinayak organised a youth group called \"Mitra Mela\" (\"Band of Friends\") and encouraged revolutionary and nationalist views of passion using this group. In 1901, Vinayak Savarkar married Yamunabai, daughter of Ramchandra Triambak Chiplunkar, who supported his university education. Subsequently, in 1902, he enrolled in Fergusson College, in Pune . As a young man, he was inspired by the new generation of radical political leaders namely Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Bipin Chandra Pal and Lala Lajpat Rai along with the political struggle against the partition of Bengal and the rising Swadeshi campaign. After completing his degree, nationalist activist Shyamji Krishna Varma helped Vinayak to go to England to study law, on a scholarship. It was during this period that the Garam Dal, literally \"Army of the angry,\" was formed under the leadership of Tilak as a result of a split between the moderate, \"constitutionalist\" wing on the one part, and of Tilak's extremist or radical wing in the Indian National Congress. The members of the Garam Dal did not acknowledge the agenda of the majority moderate Indian National Congress leadership which advocated dialogue with the British rulers and incremental steps towards Independence by gaining the confidence of the British. Tilak was soon imprisoned for his support of revolutionary activities.\n\nAfter joining Gray's Inn law college in London Vinayak took accommodation at India House. Organized by expatriate social and political activist Pandit Shyamji, India House was a thriving centre for student political activities. Savarkar soon founded the Free India Society to help organize fellow Indian students with the goal of fighting for complete independence through a revolution, declaring, \n\nSavarkar envisioned a guerrilla war for independence along the lines of the famous war for Indian independence of 1857. Studying the history of the revolt, from English as well as Indian sources, Savarkar wrote the book, \"The History of the War of Indian Independence\". He analysed the circumstances of 1857 uprising and assailed British rule in India as unjust and oppressive. It was via this book that Savarkar became one of the first writers to allude the uprising as India's \"First War for Independence.\"\n\nThe book was banned throughout the British Empire. Madame Bhikaji Cama, an expatriate Indian revolutionary obtained its publication in the Netherlands, France and Germany. Widely smuggled and circulated, the book attained great popularity and influenced rising young Indians. Savarkar was studying revolutionary methods and he came into contact with a veteran of the Russian Revolution of 1905 who imparted him the knowledge of bomb-making. Savarkar had printed and circulated a manual amongst his friends on bomb-making and other methods of guerrilla warfare.\n\nIn 1909, Madan Lal Dhingra, a keen follower and friend of Savarkar, assassinated Sir William Hutt Curzon Wyllie in a public meeting. Dhingra's action provoked controversy across Britain and India, evoking enthusiastic admiration as well as condemnation. Savarkar published an article in which he all but endorsed the murder and worked to organize support, both political and for Dhingra's legal defence.\n\nAt a meeting of Indians called for a condemnation of Dhingra's deed, Savarkar protested the intention to condemn and was drawn into a hot debate and angry scuffle with other participants. A secretive and restricted trial and a sentence awarding the death penalty to Dhingra provoked an outcry and protest across the Indian student and political community. Strongly protesting the verdict, Savarkar struggled with British authorities in laying claim to Dhingra's remains following his execution. Savarkar hailed Dhingra as a hero and martyr, and began encouraging revolution with greater intensity.\n\nIn India, Ganesh Savarkar had organised an armed revolt against the Morley-Minto reforms of 1909. The British police implicated Savarkar in the investigation for allegedly plotting the crime. Hoping to evade arrest, Savarkar moved to Madame Cama's home in Paris. He was nevertheless arrested by police on 13 March 1910. In the final days of freedom, Savarkar wrote letters to a close friend planning his escape. Knowing that he would most likely be shipped to India, Savarkar asked his friend to keep track of which ship and route he would be taken through. When the ship SS \"Morea\" reached the port of Marseille on 8 July 1910, Savarkar escaped from his cell in the hope that his friend would be there to receive him in a car. But his friend was late in arriving, and the alarm having been raised, Savarkar was re-arrested.\n\nSavarkar's arrest at Marseilles caused the French government to protest to the British, arguing that the British could not recover Savarkar unless they took appropriate legal proceedings for his rendition. The dispute came before the Permanent Court of International Arbitration in 1910, and it gave its decision in 1911. The case excited much controversy as was reported by the \"New York Times\", and it considered it involved an interesting international question of the right of asylum.\n\nThe Court held, firstly, that since there was a pattern of collaboration between the two countries regarding the possibility of Savarkar's escape in Marseilles and there was neither force nor fraud in inducing the French authorities to return Savarkar to them, the British authorities did not have to hand him back to the French in order for the latter to hold rendition proceedings. On the other hand, the tribunal also observed that there had been an \"irregularity\" in Savarkar's arrest and delivery over to the Indian Army Military Police guard.\n\nArriving in Bombay, Savarkar was taken to the Yervada Central Jail in Pune. The trial before the special tribunal was started on 10 September 1910 . One of the charges on Savarkar was he abetted murder. Following a trial, Savarkar, aged 28, was convicted and sentenced to 50-years imprisonment and transported on 4 July 1911 to the infamous Cellular Jail in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. He was not considered by the British government as a political prisoner.\n\nHis fellow captives included many political prisoners, who were forced to perform hard labour for many years. Reunited with his brother Ganesh, the Savarkars nevertheless struggled in the harsh environment: Forced to arise at 5 am, tasks including cutting trees and chopping wood, and working at the oil mill under regimental strictness, with talking amidst prisoners strictly prohibited during mealtime. Prisoners were subject to frequent mistreatment and torture. Contact with the outside world and home was restricted to the writing and mailing of one letter a year. In these years, Savarkar withdrew within himself and performed his routine tasks mechanically. Obtaining permission to start a rudimentary jail library, Savarkar would also teach some fellow convicts to read and write.\n\nSavarkar applied to the Bombay Government for certain concessions in connection with his sentences. However, by Government letter No. 2022, dated 4 April 1911, his Application was rejected and he was informed that the question of remitting the second sentence of transportation for life would be considered in due course on the expiry of the first sentence of transportation for life.\n\nMerely a month after arriving in the Cellular Jail, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Savarkar submitted his first mercy petition on 30 August 1911. This petition was rejected on 3 September 1911 \n\nSavarkar submitted his next mercy petition on November 14, 1913, and presented it personally to the Home Member of the Governor General’s council, Sir Reginald Craddock. In his letter, asking for forgiveness, he described himself as a \"\"prodigal son\" longing to return to the \"parental doors of the government\". He wrote that his release from the jail will recast the faith of many Indians in the British rule. Also he said \"Moreover, my conversion to the constitutional line would bring back all those misled young men in India and abroad who were once looking up to me as their guide. I am ready to serve the government in any capacity they like, for as my conversion is conscientious so I hope my future conduct would be. By keeping me in jail, nothing can be got in comparison to what would be otherwise.\"\" \n\nIn 1917, Savarkar submitted another mercy petition, this time for a general amnesty of all political prisoners. Savarkar was informed on February 1, 1918 that the mercy petition was placed before the British Indian Government.\n\nIn December 1919, there was a Royal proclamation by King Emperor George V. The summary of this proclamation is as follows \n\nIn the view of Royal proclamation, Savarkar submitted his fourth mercy petition to the British Government on 30 March 1920\n\nIn which he stated that \"So far from believing in the militant school of the Bukanin type, I do not contribute even to the peaceful and philosophical anarchism of a Kuropatkin [sic.] or a Tolstoy. And as to my revolutionary tendencies in the past:- it is not only now for the object of sharing the clemency but years before this have I informed of and written to the Government in my petitions (1918, 1914) about my firm intention to abide by the constitution and stand by it as soon as a beginning was made to frame it by Mr. Montagu. Since that the Reforms and then the Proclamation have only confirmed me in my views and recently I have publicly avowed my faith in and readiness to stand by the side of orderly and constitutional development.\"\n\nThis petition was rejected on 12 July 1920 by the British government . After considering the petition, the British government contemplated releasing Ganesh Savarkar but not Vinayak Savarkar. The rationale for doing so was stated as follows \n\nIn 1920, the Indian National Congress and leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi, Vithalbhai Patel and Bal Gangadhar Tilak demanded his unconditional release. Savarkar signed a statement endorsing his trial, verdict and British law, and renouncing violence, a bargain for freedom.\n\nJaywant Joglekar, who authored a book euologising Savarkar as 'Father of Hindu Nationalism', considers Savarkar's appeal for clemency a tactical ploy, like Shivaji's letter to Aurangzeb, during his arrest at Agra etc.\n\nHowever, such claims are disputed by others. The Indian historian Bipan Chandra claimed that post Savarkar's release from jail, he was not an anti-imperialist any longer, and that he accepted the humiliating conditions of his release set forth by the British government, including his non-participation in politics \n\nA portrait of Savarkar was unveiled in the Indian Parliament in 2003.\n\nOn 2 May 1921, the Savarkar brothers were moved to a jail in Ratnagiri, and later to the Yerwada Central Jail. He was finally released on 6 January 1924 under stringent restrictions – he was not to leave Ratnagiri District and was to refrain from political activities for the next five years. As a political internee in Ratnagiri he demanded an amount of Rs 100 per month. The British Government agreed on a stipend of Rs 60 per month in lieu of his compulsory unemployment. However, police restrictions on his activities would not be dropped until provincial autonomy was granted in 1937.\n\nIn the wake of the rising popularity of the Muslim League led by Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Savarkar and his party began gaining attraction in the national political environment. Savarkar moved to Bombay and was elected president of the Hindu Mahasabha in 1937, and would serve until 1943. The Congress swept the polls in 1937 but conflicts between the Congress and Jinnah would exacerbate Hindu-Muslim political divisions. Jinnah derided Congress rule as a \"Hindu Raj\", and hailed 22 December 1939 as a \"Day of Deliverance\" for Muslims when the Congress resigned en masse in protest when the British India Governor-General declared India's inclusion into World War II for the United Kingdom and its allies against Germany and its allies. Savarkar's message of Hindu unity and empowerment gained increasing popularity amidst the worsening communal climate.\n\nSavarkar as president of the Hindu Mahasabha, during the Second World War, advanced the slogan \"Hinduize all Politics and Militarize Hindudom\", he decided to support the British war effort in India seeking military training for the Hindus. When the Congress launched the \"Quit India\" movement in 1942, Savarkar criticised it and asked Hindus to stay active in the war effort and not disobey the government, he urged the Hindus to enlist in the armed forces to learn the \"arts of war\". Hindu Mahasabha activists protested Gandhi's initiative to hold talks with Jinnah in 1944, which Savarkar denounced as \"appeasement.\" He assailed the British proposals for transfer of power, attacking both the Congress and the British for making concessions to Muslim separatists. Soon after Independence, Dr Shyama Prasad Mookerjee resigned as Vice-President of the Hindu Mahasabha dissociating himself from its \"Akhand Hindustan\" plank, which implied undoing partition.\n\nUnder Savarkar, the Hindu Mahasabha openly opposed the call for the Quit India Movement and boycotted it officially. Savarkar even went to the extent of writing a letter titled \"Stick to your Posts\", in which he instructed Hindu Sabhaites who happened to be \"members of municipalities, local bodies, legislatures or those serving in the army...to stick to their posts\" across the country, and not to join the Quit India Movement at any cost.\n\nThe Indian National Congress won a massive victory in the Indian provincial elections, 1937, decimating the Muslim League and the Hindu Mahasabha. However, in 1939, the Congress ministries resigned in protest against Viceroy Lord Linlithgow's action of declaring India to be a belligerent in the Second World War without consulting the Indian people. This led to the Hindu Mahasabha, under Savarkar's presidency, joining hands with the Muslim League and other parties to form governments, in certain provinces. Such coalition governments were formed in Sindh, NWFP, and Bengal.\n\nIn Sindh, Hindu Mahasabha members joined Ghulam Hussain Hidayatullah's Muslim League government. In Savarkar's own words,\"Witness the fact that only recently in Sind, the Sind-Hindu-Sabha on invitation had taken the responsibility of joining hands with the League itself in running coalition government In March 1943, Sindh Government became the first Provincial Assembly of the sub-continent to pass an official resolution in favour of the creation of Pakistan. In spite of the Hindu Mahasabha's avowed public opposition to any political division of India, the Mahasabha Ministers of the Sindh government did not resign, rather they simply \"contented themselves with a protest\"\n\nIn the North West Frontier Province, Hindu Mahasabha members joined hands with Sardar Aurangzeb Khan of the Muslim League to form a government in 1943. The Mahasabha member of the cabinet was Finance Minister Mehar Chand Khanna.\n\nIn Bengal, Hindu Mahasabha joined the Krishak Praja Party led Progressive Coalition ministry of Fazlul Haq in December, 1941. Savarkar appreciated the successful functioning of the coalition government.\n\nHindu Mahasabha under the leadership of Savarkar started a civil resistance movement in March 1939. The objective of the Satyagraha was to secure religious and cultural liberty for the Hindus who at that time constituted 86% of total population of Hyderabad State. Many notable people like Senapati Bapat, V. G. Deshpande, Prabhakar Balwant Dani, Madhavrao Mule, took part in it. The Arya Samaj also sent around 10000 civil resisters. At last, on July 19, 1939, the Nizam government announced some political reforms. In the new dispensation, 50% seats were left for non-Muslims. Although Hindus were the majority in the state and Muslims were in minority, Hindu Mahasabha accepted this proposal. They withdrew the movement despite the fact that these reforms for partial reforms. Indian National Congress did not support this movement and called it 'communal' and 'anti-national'.\n\nSavarkar was an outspoken critic of Mahatma Gandhi. He criticized Gandhi for being a hypocrite as he supported use of violence by the British against Germany during World War II. He also criticized his appeasement of Muslims at the time of Khilafat Movement.\n\nIn articles from the 1920s to the 1940s Savarkar considered Gandhi as a naive leader who \"happens to babble...[about] compassion, forgiveness\", yet \"notwithstanding his sublime and broad heart, the Mahatma has a very narrow and immature head\".\n\nDr Ambedkar's opinion about Savarkar's position is as follows:\n\n\"Strange as it may appear, Mr. Savarkar and Mr. Jinnah, instead of being opposed to each other on the one nation versus two nations issue, are in complete agreement about it. Both agree, not only agree but insist, that there are two nations in India—one the Muslim nation and the other the Hindu nation. They differ only as regards the terms and conditions on which the two nations should live. Mr. Jinnah says India should be cut up into two, Pakistan and Hindustan, the Muslim nation to occupy Pakistan and the Hindu nation to occupy Hindustan. Mr. Savarkar on the other hand insists that, although there are two nations in India, India shall not be divided into two parts, one for Muslims and the other for the Hindus; that the two nations shall dwell in one country and shall live under the mantle of one single constitution; that the constitution shall be such that the Hindu nation will be enabled to occupy a predominant position that is due to it and the Muslim nation made to live in the position of subordinate co-operation with the Hindu nation. In the struggle for political power between, the two nations the rule of the game which Mr. Savarkar prescribes is to be one man one vote, be the man Hindu or Muslim. In his scheme a Muslim is to have no advantage which a Hindu does not have. Minority is to be no justification for privilege and majority is to be no ground for penalty. The State will guarantee the Muslims any defined measure of political power in the form of Muslim religion and Muslim culture. But the State will not guarantee secured seats in the Legislature or in the Administration and, if such guarantee is insisted upon by the Muslims,/16/ such guaranteed quota is not to exceed their proportion to the general population. Thus by confiscating its weightages, Mr. Savarkar would even strip the Muslim nation of all the political privileges it has secured so far.\"\"\nOn 1943 Savarkar himself expressed his strong support for Jinnah's demand for separate nation for Muslims before partition which ended all confusion regarding his view on this matter. On August 15 1943 in Nagpur, he unequivocally said :\n\n\"I have no quarrel with Mr Jinnah's two-nation theory. We, Hindus, are a nation by ourselves and it is a historical fact that Hindus and Muslims are two nations.\"\n\nSavarkar in a statement issued on 19 December 1947, expressed joy at the recognition of the claim of Jewish people to establish an independent Jewish state, and likened the event to the glorious day on which Moses led them out of Egyptian bondage. He considered that justice demanded restoration of entire Palestine to the Jews, their historical holy land and Fatherland. He regretted India's vote at the United Nations against the creation of the Jewish state terming the vote a policy of appeasement of Muslims.\n\nFollowing the assassination of Gandhi on 30 January 1948, police arrested the assassin Nathuram Godse and his alleged accomplices and conspirators. He was a member of the Hindu Mahasabha and of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Godse was the editor of \"Agrani - Hindu Rashtra\", a Marathi daily from Pune which was run by the company \"The Hindu Rashtra Prakashan Ltd\" (The Hindu Nation Publications). This company had contributions from such eminent persons as Gulabchand Hirachand, Bhalji Pendharkar and Jugalkishore Birla. Savarkar had invested 15000 in the company. Savarkar, a former president of the Hindu Mahasabha, was arrested on 5 February 1948, from his house in Shivaji Park, and kept under detention in the Arthur Road Prison, Mumbai. He was charged with murder, conspiracy to murder and abatement to murder. A day before his arrest, Savarkar in a public written statement, as reported in The Times of India\", Mumbai dated 7 February 1948, termed Gandhi's assassination a fratricidal crime, endangering India's existence as a nascent nation. The mass of papers seized from his house had revealed nothing that could remotely be connected with Gandhi's murder . Due to lack of evidence, Savarkar was arrested under the Preventive Detention Act .\n\nGodse claimed full responsibility for planning and carrying out the assassination. However, according to the Approver Badge, on 17 January 1948, Nathuram Godse went to have a last \"darshan\" (audience/interview) with Savarkar in Bombay before the assassination. While Badge and Shankar waited outside, Nathuram and Apte went in. On coming out Apte told Badge that Savarkar blessed them \"\"Yashasvi houn ya\" (\"यशस्वी होऊन या\"\", be successful and return). Apte also said that Savarkar predicted that Gandhi's 100 years were over and there was no doubt that the task would be successfully finished. However Badge's testimony was not accepted as the approver's evidence lacked independent corroboration and hence Savarkar was acquitted.\n\nIn the last week of August 1974, Mr. Manohar Malgonkar saw Digamber Badge several times and in particular, questioned him about the veracity of his testimony against Savarkar . Badge insisted to Mr. Manohar Malgonkar that \" even though he had blurted out the full story of the plot as far as he knew, without much persuasion, he had put up a valiant struggle against being made to testify against Savarkar\". In the end, Badge gave in. He agreed to say on oath that he saw Nathuram Godse and Apte with Savarker and that Savarkar, within Badge's hearing, had blessed their venture...\n\nOn 12 November 1964, at a religious programme organised in Pune to celebrate the release of Gopal Godse, Madanlal Pahwa and Vishnu Karkare from jail after the expiry of their sentences, Dr. G. V. Ketkar, grandson of Bal Gangadhar Tilak, former editor of Kesari and then editor of \"Tarun Bharat\", who presided over the function, gave information of a conspiracy to kill Gandhi, about which he professed knowledge six months before the act. Ketkar was arrested. A public furor ensued both outside and inside the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly and both houses of the Indian parliament. Under pressure of 29 members of parliament and public opinion the then Union home minister Gulzarilal Nanda appointed Gopal Swarup Pathak, M. P. and a senior advocate of the Supreme Court of India as a Commission of Inquiry to re-investigate the conspiracy to murder Gandhi. The central government intended on conducting a thorough inquiry with the help of old records in consultation with the government of Maharashtra. Pathak was given three months to conduct his inquiry, subsequently Jevanlal Kapur a retired judge of the Supreme Court of India was appointed chairman of the Commission.\n\nThe Kapur Commission was provided with evidence not produced in the court; especially the testimony of two of Savarkar's close aides - Appa Ramachandra Kasar, his bodyguard, and Gajanan Vishnu Damle, his secretary. The testimony of Mr. Kasar and Mr. Damle was already recorded by Bombay police on 4th March 1948, but apparently, these testimonies were not presented before the court during the trial. In these testimonies, it is said that Godse and Apte visited Savarkar on or about 23 or 24 January, which was when they returned from Delhi after the bomb incident. Damle deposed that Godse and Apte saw Savarkar in the middle of January and sat with him (Savarkar) in his garden. The C. I. D. Bombay was keeping vigil on Savarkar from 21 to 30 January 1948 . The crime report from C. I. D. does not mention Godse or Apte met Savarkar during this time . Moreover, if testimonies of Mr. Kasar and Mr. Damle were so damning then it is not clear why Bombay Police did not produce them before the court during the trial. This suggest that testimonies might have been obtained under the police pressure. \n\nJustice Kapur concluded: \"All these facts taken together were destructive of any theory other than the conspiracy to murder by Savarkar and his group.\"\n\nThe arrest of V. D. Savarkar was mainly based on approver Digambar Badge's testimony. The commission did not re-interview Digambar Badge. At the time of inquiry of the commission, Badge was alive and working in Bombay.\n\nAfter Gandhi's assassination Savarkar's home in Dadar, Mumbai was stoned by angry mobs. After he was acquitted of the allegations related to Gandhi's assassination and released from jail, Savarkar was arrested by the government, for making \"militant Hindu nationalist speeches\", he was released after agreeing to give up political activities. He continued addressing social and cultural elements of Hindutva. He resumed political activism after the ban on it was lifted, it was however limited until his death in 1966 because of ill health. His followers bestowed upon him honours and financial awards when he was alive. Two thousand RSS workers gave his funeral procession a guard of honour. According to McKean, there was public antipathy between Savarkar and the Congress for most of his political career, yet after independence Congress ministers, Vallabhbhai Patel and C. D. Deshmukh unsuccessfully sought partnership with the Hindu Mahasabha and Savarkar. It was forbidden for Congress party members to participate in public functions honouring Savarkar. Nehru refused to share the stage during the centenary celebrations of the India's First War of Independence held in Delhi. After the independence of India, Jawaharlal Nehru had put forward a proposal to demolish the Cellular Jail in the Andaman and build a hospital in its place. After the death of Nehru, the Congress government, under Prime Minister Shastri, started to pay him a monthly pension.\n\nOn 8 November 1963, Savarkar's wife, Yamuna, died. On 1 February 1966, Savarkar renounced medicines, food and water which he termed as \"atmaarpan\" (fast until death). Before his death he had written an article titled \"Atmahatya Nahi Atmaarpan\" in which he argued that when one's life mission is over and ability to serve the society is left no more, it is better to end the life at will rather than waiting for death. His condition was described to have become as \"extremely serious\" before his death on 26 February 1966 at his residence in Bombay (now Mumbai), and that he faced difficulty in breathing; efforts to revive him failed and was declared dead at 11:10 a.m. (IST) that day. Prior to his death, Savarkar had asked his relatives to perform only his funeral and do away with the rituals of the 10th and 13th day of the Hindu faith. Accordingly, his last rites were performed at an electric crematorium in Mumbai's Sonapur locality by his son Vishwas the following day.\n\nHe was mourned by large crowds that attended his cremation. He left behind a son Vishwas and a daughter Prabha Chiplunkar. His first son, Prabhakar, had died in infancy. His home, possessions and other personal relics have been preserved for public display.There was no official mourning by the then Congress party government of Maharashtra or at the centre\n.The indifference to Savarkar continued long after his death\n\nDuring his incarceration, Savarkar's views began turning increasingly towards Hindu cultural and political nationalism, and the next phase of his life remained dedicated to this cause. In the brief period he spent at the Ratnagiri jail, Savarkar wrote his ideological treatise – \"\". Smuggled out of the prison, it was published by Savarkar's supporters under his alias \"Maharatta.\" In this work, Savarkar promotes a radical new vision of Hindu social and political consciousness. Savarkar began describing a \"Hindu\" as a patriotic inhabitant of Bharatavarsha, venturing beyond a religious identity. While emphasising the need for patriotic and social unity of all Hindu communities, he described Hinduism, Jainism, Sikhism and Buddhism as one and the same. He outlined his vision of a \"Hindu Rashtra\" (\"Hindu Nation\") as \"Akhand Bharat\" (\"United India\"), purportedly stretching across the entire Indian subcontinent. He defined Hindus as being neither Aryan nor Dravidian but as \"People who live as children of a common motherland, adoring a common holyland.\"\n\nScholars, historians and Indian politicians have been divided in their interpretation of Savarkar's ideas. A self-described atheist, Savarkar regards being Hindu as a cultural and political identity. He often stressed social and community unity between Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists and Jains, to the exclusion of Muslims and Christians. Savarkar saw Muslims and Christians as \"misfits\" in the Indian civilization who could not truly be a part of the nation. He argued that the holiest sites of Islam and Christianity are in the Middle East and not India, hence the loyalty of Muslims and Christians to India is divided.\n\nAfter his release from jail on 6 January 1924. Savarkar helped found the Ratnagiri Hindu Sabha, aiming to work for the social and cultural preservation of Hindu heritage and civilisation. Becoming a frequent and forceful orator, Sarvakar agitated for the use of Hindi as a common national language and against caste discrimination and untouchability.\n\nAnother activity he started was to reconvert to Hinduism those who had converted to other faiths. This included the eight members of a Brahmin family named Dhakras who had converted to Christianity. Savarkar re-converted the family at a public function and also bore the marriage expenses of the two daughters in the family.\n\nFocusing his energies on writing, Savarkar authored the \"Hindu Pad-pada-shahi\" – a book documenting the Maratha empire – and \"My Transportation for Life\" – an account of his early revolutionary days, arrest, trial and incarceration. He also wrote and published a collection of poems, plays and novels. He also wrote a book named \"Majhi Janmathep\" (\"My Life-term\") about his experience in Andaman prison.\n\nIn many of Savarkar's speeches and writings, he praises Nazi ideology. Savarkar criticized Nehru for opposing Nazism, arguing \"Surely Hitler knows better than Pandit Nehru does what suits Germany best\". In his 1949 book, \"Hindu Rashtra Darshan\", Savarkar wrote \"Nazism proved undeniably the savior of Germany\". Savarkar often compared Germany's German majority and Jewish minority as analogous to India's Hindu majority and Muslim minority, though Savarkar never mentions the persecution of Jews in Germany. Savarkar never said that he was a proponent of murder and genocide against minorities, and instead desired peaceful assimilation. Savarkar condemned both German Jews and the Indian Muslims for their supposed inability to assimilate. In 1938, he wrote, \"if we Hindus in India grow stronger in time, these Moslem friends of the league type will have to play the part of German Jews.\" He further added that India \"must be a Hindu land, reserved for Hindus\".\n\nSavarkar supported the establishment of the Jewish State of Israel, which was not only in the spirit of his nationalism but also what Savarkar saw in the Jewish state as a barricade against the Muslim Arab world.\n\nRachel McDermott, Leonard A. Gordon, Ainslie Embree, Frances Pritchett and Dennis Dalton state that Savarkar promoted an anti-Muslim form of Hindu nationalism. Scholar Vinayak Chaturvedi states that Savarkar was known for his anti-Muslim writings.\nSavarkar saw Muslims in the Indian police and military to be \"potential traitors\". He advocated that India reduce the number of Muslims in the military, police and public service and ban Muslims from owning or working in munitions factories.\nSavarkar criticized Gandhi for being concerned about Indian Muslims. Chaturvedi notes that there was a \"shift\" in Savakar's views: in his earlier writings he argued for \"Indian independence from British rule\", whereas in later writings he focused on \"Hindu independence from Christians and Muslims\". In his 1907 \"Indian War of Independence\", Savarkar includes Muslims as heroes. This was omitted in his later writings; his 1925 \"Hindu-pad-paatshahi\" included Hindu heroes but not Muslim ones. In his 1963 \"Six Glorious Epochs\", Savarkar says Muslims and Christians wanted to \"destroy\" Hinduism.\nAlthough Savarkar is regarded as a Hindu Nationalist, he professed atheism (\"nirīśvaravāda\"). It should however, be noted that atheism within Hinduism is different from its Western counterpart. Many Hindus do not profess belief in deities or a God, as it is not a single religion, but a collection of many diverse philosophies and faiths. Savarkar still had spirituality, and a mystical view of life, and gave great importance to mythology and symbolism.\n\nSavarkar's literary works in Marathi include \"\"Kamala\", \"Mazi Janmathep\"\" (My Life Sentence), and most famously \"1857 - The First War of Independence\", in which Savarkar popularised the term \"First War of Independence\" for what the British referred to as the \"Sepoy Mutiny\". Another book was \"Kale Pani\" (\"Black Water\" which means \"life sentence\" on the island prison on the Andaman islands), which reflected the treatment of Indian Independence activists by the British. To counter the then British propagated view that India's history was a saga of continuous defeat, he wrote an inspirational historical work, \"Saha Soneri Pane\" (Six Golden Pages), recounting some of the \"Golden periods\" of Indian history. At the same time, religious divisions in India were beginning to be exacerbated. He described what he saw as the atrocities of British and Muslims on Hindu residents in Kerala in the book, \"Mopalyanche Band\" (Muslims' Strike) and also \"Gandhi Gondhal\" (Gandhi's Confusion), a political critique of Gandhi's politics. Savarkar, by now, had become a committed and persuasive critic of the Gandhian vision of India's future.\n\nHe is also the author of the poems \"Sagara pran talmalala\" (\"O Great Sea, My Heart Aches for the Motherland\"), and \"Jayostute\" (written in praise of freedom). When in the Cellular jail, Savarkar was denied pen and paper. He composed and wrote his poems on the prison walls with thorns and pebbles, memorised thousands lines of his poetry for years till other prisoners returning home brought them to mainland India. Savarkar is credited with several neologisms in Marathi and Hindi, including \"Hutatma\" (Martyr), \"Mahapaur\" ( Mayor), \"Digdarshak\" (leader or director, one who points in the right direction), \"Shatkar\" (a score of six runs in cricket), \"Saptahik\" (weekly), \"Sansad\" (\"Parliament\"), \"doordhwani\" (\"telephone\"), \"tanklekhan\" (\"typewriting\") among others.\n\nHe chaired Marathi Sahitya Sammelan in 1938.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "239686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239686", "title": "Wild haggis", "text": "Wild haggis\n\nWild haggis (given the humorous taxonomic designation \"Haggis scoticus\") is a fictional creature of Scottish folklore, said to be native to the Scottish Highlands. It is comically claimed to be the source of haggis, a traditional Scottish dish that is in fact made from the innards of sheep (including heart, lungs, and liver).\n\nAccording to some sources, the wild haggis's left and right legs are of different lengths (cf. Sidehill gouger or Dahu), allowing it to run quickly around the steep mountains and hillsides which make up its natural habitat, but only in one direction. It is further claimed that there are two varieties of haggis, one with longer left legs and the other with longer right legs. The former variety can run clockwise around a mountain (as seen from above) while the latter can run anticlockwise. The two varieties coexist peacefully but are unable to interbreed in the wild because in order for the male of one variety to mate with a female of the other, he must turn to face in the same direction as his intended mate, causing him to lose his balance before he can mount her. As a result of this difficulty, differences in leg length among the haggis population are accentuated.\n\nThe notion of the wild haggis is widely believed, though not always including the idea of mismatched legs. According to an online survey commissioned by haggis manufacturers Hall's of Broxburn, released on 26 November 2003, one-third of U.S. visitors to Scotland believed the wild haggis to be a real creature.\n\n"}
{"id": "38680876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38680876", "title": "William Alfred Wearing", "text": "William Alfred Wearing\n\nJustice William Alfred Wearing QC (12 November 1816 – 24 February 1875) was a prominent jurist in the Colony of South Australia, who lost his life in the wreck of \"S.S. Gothenburg\"\n\nWilliam A. Wearing was born in London, a son of businessman Christopher Hammond Wearing (ca.1785 – 29 February 1860) and his wife Elizabeth Augusta, née Soulsby. He was educated at Trinity College, or St John's College, Cambridge, where he took the degree of B.A. He studied law, and was called to the bar at Lincoln's Inn in 1847. He shortly afterwards left for South Australia, following his parents, who had emigrated in 1839. He immediately began practising and it was not long before he was taken into partnership with the Charles Fenn, one of the largest practices in Adelaide. The partnership was dissolved, and Mr. Wearing was appointed Crown Solicitor, but was able to continue in private practice.\n\nIn the earlier days of the colony he occasionally took part in colonial politics; working for the election of Mr. (later Judge) Gwynne, and also in securing the return of Dr. Wark. In 1866 he served on the secret court of inquiry which forced the resignation of Police Commissioner Peter Warburton. He took an active part in the 1867 sacking of Mr. Justice Benjamin Boothby and was appointed by the Hon. A. Blyth's or Hon. Sir Henry Ayers' Government as the third judge of the Supreme Court of South Australia in his place. Part of his duties involved holding the Palmerston Circuit Court in the Northern Territory, from where he was returning when the \"Gothenburg\" was wrecked. He was not one of the 22 persons who survived.\n\nLionel James Pelham, judge's associate and clerk of arraigns and Joseph James Whitby, who accompanied Judge Wearing to the Northern Territory, in the capacity of acting Crown solicitor, were also lost in the \"Gothenburg\".\n\nWearing's place on the Bench was taken by Justice Randolph Isham Stow Q.C., but he died three years later on 16 September 1878.\n\nOn 4 October 1860 he married Jessie Clark (1842 – 8 January 1906) daughter of W. H. Clark They had three daughters and two sons, who, with their mother, left for London shortly after his death.\n"}
