{"id": "24964268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24964268", "title": "AdvisorShares", "text": "AdvisorShares\n\nAdvisorShares Investments is a US-based investment management firm based in Bethesda, Maryland which offers actively managed exchange-traded funds (ETFs) through the AdvisorShares Trust. The firm launched its first active ETF fund in 2009.\n\nThe firm has been part owned by Fund.com since 2008.\n\nThe firm launched its first active ETF fund in 2009. By 2014 it had 24 active ETFs and $1.83 billion under management. By August 2018 it had 17 ETFs with an average expense ratio of 1.12% and only $817.6 million in assets under management. AdvisorShares is a subsidiary of Fund.com, which has a 60% ownership interest.\n\nAdvisorShares partners with third party financial advisers who already manage clients’ assets to package their investment strategy using exchange-traded funds. As part of promoting its funds it also provides educational support to help financial advisors and investors understand actively managed ETFs and their underlying investment strategies.\n\nIn October 2012 Esposito Securities LLC sued AdvisorShares, claiming that the parties signed a mutual nondisclosure agreement and that subsequently Dan Ahrens, an officer of AdvisorShares, began sharing confidential information with Esposito's clients and told them not to do business with Esposito.\n\nThe Dent Tactical ETF commenced trading on the New York Stock Exchange on September 15, 2009 under the . The first product of AdvisorShares Investments, LLC, DENT was actively managed by HS Dent Investment Management, LLC, an independent economic research and forecasting company and publisher of The Dent Method.\n\nHS Dent Investment Management was managed by financial author, Harry S. Dent Jr. Previously, HS Dent had raised and managed a $2.0 billion mutual fund, AIM Dent Demographic Trends, which was merged into another fund after it lost 80% of its assets. According to Morningstar, Inc., DENT had highest expense ratio among ETFs, 1.5% of assets, as of July 2011. \nDENT closed in August 2012. Its last day of trading was August 8, 2012 and remaining investments were returned to shareholders on August 15, 2012.\n\nThe Mars Hill Global Relative Value ETF commenced trading on the New York Stock Exchange on July 9, 2010 under the NYSE Ticker: GRV and was managed by Mars Hill Partners, LLC. GRV was the industry's first actively managed long/short ETF.\n\nWhile GRV managed to raise $38 million a month after it launched, investors fled until the fund had only $3.2 million left. On December 1, 2011, Accuvest Global Advisors took over management of the fund and changed the name and ticker to AdvisorShares Accuvest Global Long Short ETF (AGLS).\n\nIn May 2012, AdvisorShares launched the AdvisorShares Global Echo ETF on the New York Stock Exchange focused on sustainable investing; the fund also said it would donate a portion of the fund expense fees to Global Echo Foundation, a nonprofit co-founded by Philippe Cousteau, Jr. focused on social issues impacting women and children to environmental conservation, as well as supporting social entrepreneurship. The fund's expense ratio is 1.7%, including 0.4% that is donated to the Global Echo Foundation. One potential concern investors may have about investing in GIVE is that they don't get a tax write-off for the portion of the management fee that is donated to the charitable foundation, whereas an individual donating the proceeds of a profitable investment to an eligible charity would be able to get a substantial tax write-off. In reaction to that, AdvisorShares lowered the management fee on GIVE to 0.80% and capped its net expense ratio at 0.99% in January 2017. GIVE finally closed on May 17, 2017. \n\n"}
{"id": "34810620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34810620", "title": "Alabama Women's Hall of Fame", "text": "Alabama Women's Hall of Fame\n\nThe Alabama Women's Hall of Fame honors the achievements of women associated with the U.S. state of Alabama. Established in 1970, the first women were inducted the following year. The museum is located in Bean Hall on the campus of Judson College in Marion, Alabama. It became a state agency in 1975 by an act of the Alabama Legislature. The organization is governed by an eleven-member board. They are elected to three-year terms with a minimum of one board member from the fields of art, business, community service, education, law, medicine, politics, religion, and science. In addition to the board, the President of Judson College and Governor of Alabama both serve as voting members.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "186458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186458", "title": "Alt.sex.stories", "text": "Alt.sex.stories\n\nalt.sex.stories is a Usenet newsgroup for erotic stories created on May 7, 1992 by Tim Pierce as an alternative to pre-existing alt erotica newsgroups. The group was initially unmoderated, a feature that was not shared by some of the other Usenet or altnet newsgroups. This feature allowed for greater user freedom.\n\nIn early 1997 a moderated version of alt.sex.stories was created due to an increasing number of posts by “various pay services, scam artists, and bots”. This moderated newsgroup (ASSM) has always operated by cross-posting all approved stories to alt.sex.stories, and is not simply a filtered version of the unmoderated group, rather, all stories posted to ASSM were specifically submitted there.\n\nCurrently the day-to-day operations and general direction of ASSM is overseen by the Alt.Sex.Stories Text Repository (ASSTR), which coordinates a group of volunteers to moderate the newsgroup using a web-based voting system. ASSTR also hosts an archive of the newsgroup, and a mirror of the Nifty Erotic Stories Archive (gay). ASSM is one of the few remaining active groups in the alt.sex.* hierarchy.\n\nDue to competition from web-based erotica sites and communities, the volume of stories posted to ASSM (and thus to alt.sex.stories) had dropped considerably by 2006, although the group is still actively moderated.\n\nAlt.sex.stories is notable for assisting in the launch of several notable authors of erotica such as Elf Sternberg and Mary Anne Mohanraj.\n\nBecause of the large volume of stories posted, a set of codes to describe the story content was developed. Writers were encouraged to include these story codes in the title of their stories.\n\n"}
{"id": "51560282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51560282", "title": "Angry Inuk", "text": "Angry Inuk\n\nAngry Inuk is a 2016 Canadian feature-length documentary film written and directed by Alethea Arnaquq-Baril that defends the Inuit seal hunt, as the hunt is a vital means for Inuit peoples to sustain themselves. Subjects in \"Angry Inuk\" include Arnaquq-Baril herself as well as Aaju Peter, an Inuit seal hunt advocate, lawyer and seal fur clothing designer who depends on the sealskins for her livelihood. Partially shot in the filmmaker's home community of Iqaluit, as well as Kimmirut and Pangnirtung, where seal hunting is essential for survival, the film follows Peter and other Inuit to Europe in an effort to have the EU Ban on Seal Products overturned. The film also criticizes NGOs such as Greenpeace and the International Fund for Animal Welfare for ignoring the needs of vulnerable northern communities who depend on hunt for their livelihoods by drawing a false distinction between subsistence-driven Inuit hunters and profit-driven commercial hunters.\n\n\"Angry Inuk\" was co-produced by Arnaquq-Baril and the National Film Board of Canada (NFB) in association with EyeSteelFilm.\n\n\"Angry Inuk\" premiered May 2, 2016 at the Hot Docs Canadian International Documentary Festival, where the film received the Vimeo On Demand Audience Award along with the Canadian Documentary Promotion Award. In October 2016, the film received the Alanis Obomsawin Best Documentary Award at the imagineNATIVE Film + Media Arts Festival in Toronto. The following month, it received both the Women Inmates' Prize and the Magnus Isacsson Award at the Montreal International Documentary Festival. On December 7, 2016, \"Angry Inuk\" was named to the Toronto International Film Festival's annual Canada's Top 10 list, and took home the People's Choice Award at the TIFF Canada's Top Ten Festival.\n\nWhile Arnaquq-Baril has stated that the anti-sealing movement has forced Inuit to turn to the mining and the natural gas industry to support themselves, with dire consequences for the Arctic environment, supporters of the EU ban on seal products have countered that such a ban does not block Inuit from seal hunting to sustain themselves and supply market demand. This however is not possible when bans are in place. Without the commercial hunt, hunters can't afford to hunt to sustain themselves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1658385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1658385", "title": "Berkman Klein Center for Internet &amp; Society", "text": "Berkman Klein Center for Internet &amp; Society\n\nThe Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society is a research center at Harvard University that focuses on the study of cyberspace. Founded at Harvard Law School, the center traditionally focused on internet-related legal issues. On May 15, 2008, the Center was elevated to an interfaculty initiative of Harvard University as a whole. It is named after the Berkman family. On July 5, 2016, the Center added \"Klein\" to its name following a gift of $15 million from Michael R. Klein.\n\nThe center was founded in 1996 as the \"Center on Law and Technology\" by professors Jonathan Zittrain and Charles Nesson. This built on previous work including a 1994 seminar they held on legal issues involving the early Internet. Professor Arthur Miller and students David Marglin and Tom Smuts also worked on that seminar and related discussions. In 1997, the Berkman family underwrote the center, and Lawrence Lessig joined as the first Berkman professor. In 1998, the center changed its name to the \"Berkman Center for Internet & Society at Harvard Law School\". Since then, it has grown from a small project within Harvard Law School to a major interdisciplinary center at Harvard University. The Berkman Klein Center seeks to understand how the development of Internet-related technologies is inspired by the social context in which they are embedded and how the use of those technologies affects society in turn. It seeks to use the lessons drawn from this research to inform the design of Internet-related law and pioneer the development of the Internet itself. The Berkman Klein Center sponsors Internet-related events and conferences, and hosts numerous visiting lecturers and research fellows.\n\nMembers of the center teach, write books, scientific articles, weblogs with RSS 2.0 feeds (for which the Center holds the specification), and podcasts (of which the first series took place at the Berkman Klein Center). Its newsletter, \"The Buzz\", is on the Web and available by e-mail, and it hosts a blog community of Harvard faculty, students, and Berkman Klein Center affiliates.\n\nThe Berkman Klein Center faculty and staff have also conducted major public policy reviews of pressing issues. In 2008, John Palfrey led a review of child safety online called the Internet Safety Technical Task Force. In 2009, Yochai Benkler led a review of United States broadband policy. In 2010, Urs Gasser, along with Palfrey and others, led a review of Internet governance body ICANN, focusing on transparency, accountability, and public participation.\n\nThe Berkman Klein Center's main research topics are Teens and Media, Monitoring, Privacy, Digital art, Internet Governance, Cloud Computing and Internet censorship. The Berkman Klein Center supports events, presentations, and conferences about the Internet and invites scientists to share their ideas.\n\nThe Digital Media Law Project (DMLP) was a project hosted by the Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society at Harvard Law School. It had previously been known as the Citizen Media Law Project. The purposes of the DMLP were: \nIn 2014, Berkman Klein Center announced that it would \"spin off its most effective initiatives and cease operation as a stand-alone project within the Berkman Klein Center.\"\n\nThe Berkman Klein Center operated the now-completed Internet and Democracy Project, which describes itself as an:\nIn 2006, the Center established the non-profit organization StopBadware, aiming to stop viruses, spyware, and other threats to the open Internet, in partnership with the Oxford Internet Institute, Google, Lenovo and Sun Microsystems. In 2010, StopBadware became an independent entity supported by Google, PayPal, and Mozilla.\n\nThe Digital Public Library of America is a project aimed at making a large-scale digital public library accessible to all.\n\nFellows include or have included John Perry Barlow, danah boyd, John Clippinger, Tamar Frankel, Benjamin Mako Hill, Reynol Junco, Rebecca MacKinnon, James F. Moore, Mayo Fuster Morell, Doc Searls, Amber Case, Wendy Seltzer, Peter Suber, Jimmy Wales, David Weinberger, Dave Winer, Yasodara Cordova and Ethan Zuckerman.\n\nFaculty include Yochai Benkler, William \"Terry\" Fisher, Urs Gasser, Lawrence Lessig, Charles Nesson, John Palfrey, and Jonathan Zittrain.\n\nThe center also has active groups of faculty associates, affiliates and alumni who host and participate in their projects each year.\n\n"}
{"id": "1574457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1574457", "title": "BioBlitz", "text": "BioBlitz\n\nA BioBlitz, also written without capitals as bioblitz, is an intense period of biological surveying in an attempt to record all the living species within a designated area. Groups of scientists, naturalists and volunteers conduct an intensive field study over a continuous time period (e.g., usually 24 hours). There is a public component to many BioBlitzes, with the goal of getting the public interested in biodiversity. To encourage more public participation, these BioBlitzes are often held in urban parks or nature reserves close to cities.\n\nA BioBlitz has different opportunities and benefits than a traditional, scientific field study. Some of these potential benefits include:\n\nThe term \"BioBlitz\" was first coined by U.S. National Park Service naturalist Susan Rudy while assisting with the first BioBlitz. The first BioBlitz was held at Kenilworth Aquatic Gardens, Washington D.C. in 1996. Approximately 1000 species were identified at this first event. This first accounting of biodiversity was organized by Sam Droege (USGS) and Dan Roddy (NPS) with the assistance of other government scientists. The public and especially the news media were invited. Since the success of the first bioblitz, many organisations around the world have repeated this concept.\n\nSince then, most BioBlitz contain a public component so that adults, kids, teens and anyone interested can join experts and scientists in the field. Participating in these hands-on field studies is a fun and exciting way for people to learn about biodiversity and better understand how to protect it.\n\nIn 1998, Harvard biologist E.O. Wilson and Massachusetts wildlife expert Peter Alden developed a program to catalog the organisms around Walden Pond. This led to a statewide program known as Biodiversity Days. This concept is very similar to a BioBlitz and occasionally the two terms are used interchangeably.\n\nA variation on the BioBlitz, the Blogger Blitz began in 2007. Rather than gather volunteers and scientists at one location, participant blogs pledged to conduct individual surveys of biodiversity. These results were then compiled and mapped. The purpose of this blitz is not to survey down to species level across all taxonomic groups, but rather to raise awareness about biodiversity and provide a general snapshot of diversity.\n\nFrom 2007 through 2016 National Geographic Society and the US National Park Service partnered to put on a Bioblitz in a different National Park each year culminating in a Bioblitz across the National Park Service in 2016 as part of the National Park Service Centennial Celebration. The iNaturalist platform was used as the recording tool for the 2014, 2015, and 2016 Centennial Bioblitzes in this series. \"The National Park Service and National Geographic hosted the first ever nationwide National Parks BioBlitz with scientists, park managers, and the public serving as citizen scientists making more than 60,000 observations on the mobile app iNaturalist. This endeavor has currently documented nearly 7,000 species, including species that are new to parks’ species lists, and engaged an estimated 80,000 public participants.\" Check out the iNaturalist results.\n\nHighlights of the 2016 nationwide BioBlitz include:\n\n\nActive Bioblitz\nInactive and historic BioBlitz\n\n\nBioBlitz Events in Hungary are organized by the Hungarian Biodiversity Research Society http://www.biodiverzitasnap.hu/ since 2006, starting with the eco-village Gyürüfű and its surroundings in Baranya County. Since then the Society organizes BioBlitz Events (called also Biodiversity Days) every year, sometimes even several events a year, during which 60-80 experts and researchers contribute to a profound momentary inventory of a chosen area in Hungary, and from time to time in cross-border areas in joint-projects with neighbour countries. The Hungarian Biodiversity Research Society invites local inhabitants and the interested public to join their events, and focusses in its outreach to young local and regional pupils and their teachers just like students from Hungary and abroad. The BioBlitz Events are taking place in partnership with the local National Park Directories, Municipalities and Civil Organisations. A rather fresh approach is the involvement of high school students during their obligatory community/voluntary work into research and field work in the topics of biodiversity and nature protection based upon long term co-operation contracts with schools and educational centres. The main goals pursued by the Hungarian Biodiversity Research Society are to promote the correct understanding of biodiversity in its true context, based upon data collection, monitoring, research and expertise, passing on knowledge from generation to generation and outreach to the broader public. It also aims to strengthen national and international networks. The results of the BioBlitz Events are published in print and on-line media and serve mainly as fundamentals for maintenance-instructions for protected areas and for appropriate natural-resource management, but also for educational purposes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBristol Natural History Consortium now host the National BioBlitz Network. (www.bnhc.org.uk)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8373133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8373133", "title": "Bosniaks of Serbia", "text": "Bosniaks of Serbia\n\nBosniaks (Bosnian and Serbian: \"Bošnjaci /\" Бошњаци) are the fourth largest ethnic group in Serbia after Serbs, Hungarians and Roma, numbering 145,278 or 2.02% of the population according to the 2011 census. They are concentrated in south-western Serbia, and their cultural centre is Novi Pazar.\n\nBosniaks, as ethnic minority, are primarily the ones living in south-western Serbia, in the region historically known as Sandžak, which is today divided between the states of Serbia and Montenegro. Colloquially referred to as \"Sandžaklije\" by themselves and others, Bosniaks form the majority in three out of six municipalities in the Serbian part of Sandžak: Novi Pazar (77.1%), Tutin (90%) and Sjenica (73.8%) and comprise an overall majority of 59.6%. The town of Novi Pazar is a cultural center of the Bosniaks in Serbia. Many Bosniaks from the Sandžak area left after the fall of the Ottoman Empire to continental Turkey. Over the years a large number of Bosniaks from the Sandžak region left to other countries, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Turkey, Germany, Sweden, United States, Canada, Australia, etc. A second group is formed by Bosniaks that came from Bosnia and Herzegovina to the largest cities in Serbia during 20th century as economic migrants and inter-Yugoslav migrations.\n\nToday, the majority of Bosniaks are Sunni Muslim and adhere to the Hanafi school of thought, the largest and oldest school of Islamic law in jurisprudence within Sunni Islam. Some in this region are Albanian by ethnicity and live in villages (Boroštica, Doliće, Ugao) located in the Pešter region. They have adopted a Bosniak identity in censuses, due to past sociopolitical discrimination against Albanians in the former Yugoslavia after World War Two.\n\nTwo thirds of Sandžak Bosniaks trace their ancestry to the regions of Montenegro proper, from Malesia, region inhabited by Albanians. which they started departing first in 1687, after Turkey lost Boka Kotorska. The trend continued in Old Montenegro after 1711 with the extermination of alleged converts to Islam (“istraga poturica”). Another contributing factor that spurred migration to Sandžak from the Old Montenegro was the fact that the old Orthodox population of Sandžak moved towards Serbia and Habsburg Monarchy (Vojvodina) in two waves, first after 1687, and then, after 1740, basically leaving Sandžak depopulated. The advance of increasingly stronger ethnic Serbs of Montenegro caused additional resettlements out of Montenegro proper in 1858 and 1878, when, upon Treaty of Berlin, Montenegro was recognized as an independent state. While only 20 Bosniak families remained in Nikšić after 1878, the towns like Kolašin, Spuž, Grahovo, and others, completely lost their Bosniak population.\n\nThe last segment of Sandžak Bosniaks arrived from a couple of other places. Some Bosniaks came from Slavonia after 1687, when Turkey lost all the lands north of Sava in the Austro-Turkish war. Many more came from Herzegovina in the post-1876 period, after the Herzegovina Rebellion staged by the Serbs against Austro-Hungary and their Muslim subjects. Another wave followed immediately thereafter from both Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the Treaty of Berlin placed the Vilayet of Bosnia under the effective control of Austria-Hungary in 1878. The last wave from Bosnia followed in 1908, when Austria-Hungary officially annexed Bosnia, thereby cutting off all direct ties of Bosnian Muslims to the Ottoman Empire, their effective protector.\n\nThe first major political organising of the Sandžak Muslims happened at the Sjenica conference, held in August 1917, during the Austrian-Hungarian occupation of the Sanjak of Novi Pazar. The Muslim representatives at the conference decided to ask the Austrian-Hungarian authorities to separate the Sanjak of Novi Pazar from Serbia and Montenegro and merge it with Bosnia and Herzegovina, or at least to give an autonomy to the region.\n\nAfter the end of the World War I and the creation of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes in 1918, the Sandžak region also become a part of the newly created country. At the Constitutional Assembly election held in 1920, the Sandžak Muslims voted for the People's Radical Party. The main reason for supporting the radicals was a promise made to several influential Muslims that they would be compensated for losing their lands during the agrarian reform.\n\nIn order to protect their interests, the Sandžak Muslims organised themselves jointly with the Albanians in the Džemijet party, that covered the area of the present-day Kosovo, the Republic of Macedonia and Sandžak. The main goal of the Džemijet was the protection of interests of the Slavic Muslims and Albanians. Džemijet was founded in 1919 in Skopje and was led by Nexhip Draga and later by his brother Ferhat Bey Draga. After it was founded in Skopje, branches of the party were soon founded in Kosovo, Sandžak and the rest of Macedonia. District and municipal branches in Sandžak were founded at a meeting of Džemijet held in Novi Pazar in 1922. The meeting was highly attended, and it insisted upon Muslim unity instead of division by various political parties.\n\nCurrently the most important political party is the Party of Democratic Action of Sandžak led by Sulejman Ugljanin, which has parliamentary representation and has participated in coalition governments.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "915915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=915915", "title": "Ciboney", "text": "Ciboney\n\nThe Ciboney, or Siboney, were a Taíno people of Cuba. A Western Taíno group living in central Cuba during the 15th and 16th centuries, they had a dialect and culture distinct from the Classic Taíno in the eastern part of the island, though much of the Ciboney territory was under the control of the eastern chiefs. Confusion in the historical sources led 20th-century scholars to apply the name \"Ciboney\" to the non-Taíno Guanahatabey of western Cuba and various archaic cultures around the Caribbean, but this is deprecated.\n\nAt the time of Spanish colonization, the Ciboney were the most populous group in Cuba. They inhabited the central part of the island, between western Pinar del Río Province and eastern Oriente Province. Bartolomé de las Casas, who lived among the Ciboney in the early 16th century, related that their dialect and culture was similar to that of the Lucayans of the present-day Bahamas. As such, scholars classify the Ciboney as a Western Taíno group, associating them with the peoples of the Bahamas, Jamaica, and westernmost Hispaniola, while distinguishing them from the Classic Taíno of eastern Cuba, most of Hispaniola, and Puerto Rico. In addition to the Classic Taíno in eastern Cuba, the Ciboney shared the island with the Guanahatabey, an archaic people inhabiting western Pinar del Río Province. The Ciboney spoke a dialect of the Taíno language conventionally known as Ciboney Taíno; it was distinct from, but mutually intelligible with, Classic Taíno.\n\nThe Ciboney were the dominant population in Cuba until around 1450. Las Casas states that unlike the highly organized Classic Taíno to the east, the Ciboney had no integrated chiefdoms or wider political structure. In the mid-15th century, Classic Taíno from Hispaniola began migrating into eastern Cuba, overcoming the native Ciboney. These \"Cuban Taíno\" established chiefdoms concentrated in Oriente Province, though they established settlements as far west as Havana Province. However, the Cuban Taíno never established an island-wide political structure as existed in Hispaniola and Puerto Rico. Classic Taíno migration from Hispaniola to Cuba increased after Spanish contact, with many Taíno leaving to escape the Spanish incursion. Notably, Hispaniola Taíno chief Hatuey fled to Cuba with most of his people; he remained there until the Spanish captured and executed him. Following the Spanish conquest of Cuba in 1511 under Diego Velázquez de Cuéllar, the population of all native groups declined precipitously until they had disappeared as distinct groups by the end of the century.\n\nIn the 20th century, misreadings of the historical record led scholars to confuse the Ciboney with both a neighboring group, the Guanahatabey, and with archaic-level populations around the Caribbean. Las Casas referred to both the Ciboney and the Guanahatabey, but he was clear they were different: the Guanahatabey were a primitive society of hunter-gatherers in western Cuba, and they spoke a separate language distinct from Taíno. A confusion of the sources led archaeologists to use the term \"Ciboney\" for the aceramic (lacking pottery) archaeological sites found on various Caribbean islands. As many of these were found in the former Guanahatabey territory, the term became associated with the historical non-Taíno Guanahatabey. Scholars recognized the error in the 1980s and have restored the name \"Ciboney\" to the Western Taíno people of Cuba.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "401753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401753", "title": "Death by sawing", "text": "Death by sawing\n\nThe term \"death by sawing\" indicates the act of sawing a living person in half, either sagittally (usually midsagittally), or transversely. Thus, decapitation by sawing or dismemberment by sawing are tangential sub-themes, though some ambiguous cases might be included. Death by sawing was a method of execution reportedly used in different parts of the world. Some of the reviewed examples are legendary. At least one source states that the method was probably never used.\n\nDifferent methods of death by sawing have been recorded. In cases related to the Roman Emperor Caligula, the sawing is said to be through the middle (transversely). In the cases of Morocco, it is stated that the sawing was lengthwise, both from the groin and upwards and from the skull and downwards (midsagittally).\n\nIn only one case, in the story about Simon the Zealot, the person is explicitly described as being hung upside-down and sawn apart vertically through the middle, starting at the groin, with no mention of fastening or support boards around the person, in the manner depicted in illustrations. In other cases where details about the method beyond the mere sawing act are explicitly supplied, the condemned person was apparently fastened to either one or two boards prior to sawing.\n\nJamshid was a legendary shah of Persia, whose story is told in the \"Shahnameh\" by Ferdowsi. After 300 years of blessed reign, Jamshid forgot the blessings came from God, and began demanding that he be revered as a god himself. The people rebelled, and Zahhak had him sawn asunder.\nParysatis, wife and half-sister of Darius II (r. 423–405 BC) was the real power behind the throne of the Achaemenid Empire; she instigated and became involved in a number of court intrigues, made several enemies, yet had an uncanny knack for dispatching them at an opportune time. At one point, she decided to have the siblings of her daughter-in-law Stateira killed, and only relented from killing Stateira as well due to the desperate pleas of her son, Artaxerxes II. Stateira's sister Roxana was the first of her siblings to be killed, by being sawn in half. When Dareius II died, Parysatis moved quickly, and was able to have the new queen Stateira poisoned; Parysatis still remained a power to be reckoned with for years after.\nHormizd IV (), son of Khosrow I, reigned as the twenty-first King of Persia from AD 579 to 590. As the years went by, he was, due to his \"cruelties\", deeply resented by the nobility. In 590, a palace coup was staged in which his son, Khosrow II, was declared king. Hormuzd IV was forced to watch his wife and one of his sons sawn in two, and the deposed king was then blinded. After a few days, the new king is said to have killed his old, blind father in a fit of rage.\n\nThracians were regarded as warlike, ferocious, and bloodthirsty by Romans and Greeks. One of the most notorious was the king Diegylis, possibly only topped by his son Ziselmius. According to Diodorus Siculus, Ziselmius sawed several persons to death and commanded their families to eat the flesh of their murdered relatives. The Thracians eventually rebelled, captured him and sought to inflict every conceivable torture upon him prior to his death.\n\nPromulgated about 451 BC, the Twelve Tables is the oldest extant law code for the Romans. Aulus Gellius, whose work \"Attic Nights\" is partially preserved, states that death by the saw was mentioned for some offenses in the tables, but that the use of which was so infrequent that no one could remember ever having seen it done. Of the retained laws in the Twelve Tables, the following concerning how creditors should proceed with debtors is found in Table 3, article 6: \"On the third market-day they [the creditors] shall cut pieces. If they shall have cut more or less [than their shares], it shall be with impunity (_s[in]e fraude_).\" The translator notes the ambiguity of the original text, but says that later Roman writers understood this to mean that creditors were allowed to cut their shares from the body of the debtor. If true, that would constitute dismemberment, rather than sawing.\nThis method of execution was uncommon throughout the time of the Roman Empire. However, it was used extensively during the reign of Caligula when the condemned, including members of his own family, were sawn across the torso rather than lengthways down the body. It is said that Caligula would watch such executions while he ate, stating that witnessing the suffering acted as an appetiser.\nThe Kitos War occurred 115–117 AD, and was a rebellion by the Jews within the Roman Empire. Major revolts happened several places, and the main source by Cassius Dio claims that in Cyrene, 220,000 Greeks were massacred by the Jews; in Cyprus, 240,000. Dio adds that many of the victims were sawn asunder, and that the Jews licked up the blood of the slain, and \"twisted the entrails like a girdle about their bodies\"\nIn 365 AD, Procopius declared himself emperor, and moved against Valens. He was defeated in battle, and due to the treachery of his two generals Agilonius and Gomoarius (they had been promised they would be \"shown favour\" by Valens), he was captured. In 366, he was fastened to two trees bent down with force; when the trees were released, Procopius was ripped apart. The \"favour\" Valens showed to Agilonius and Gomoarius was to have them both sawn asunder.\n\nThe prophet Isaiah was, according to some traditional rabbinic texts, sawn apart on orders of King Manasseh of Juda. One tradition states that he was put within a tree, and then sawn apart; another says he was sawn apart by means of a wooden saw.\n\n\nSeveral early Christians are credited with being martyred by means of a saw. The earliest, and most famous, is the obscure apostle of Jesus, Simon the Zealot. He is said to have been martyred in Persia, and that the express mode by which he was executed was to be hanged up by the feet, as in the woodcut illustration.\nLiving in the age of Domitian, Conus went, after his wife's death, with his 7-year-old son into a desert. However, he then had the idea of attacking paganism, and destroyed several idols in Cogni, Asia Minor (Anatolia). Caught, he and his son were tortured by starvation and fire, but they were finally put to the saw, dying while they prayed.\nSymphorosa was, allegedly, a widow with seven sons living in the age of emperor Trajan (98-117). They were commanded to pray at a heathen temple, but refusing, Symphorosa was scourged, and then with a large stone fastened to her, thrown in the river Aniene. The six eldest sons were all killed by stab wounds, but the youngest, Eugenius, was sawn apart. However, she may have been killed ca. 138, near the end of the reign of Hadrian (117–138).\nSupposedly during the reign of Diocletian, a community of monks lived at Mount Sinai. One day, the \"wild barbarians\" (said to be inveterate robbers and even cannibalizing their own sons occasionally) decided to rob the community. But, there was nothing of material wealth there, and in their rage, the Arabs slaughtered them all, several by flaying, others by sawing them with dull saws.\nAccused of practicing witchcraft and of causing sickness to befall the wife of the ardently anti-Christian Persian king Shapur II, she was condemned and executed by being sawed in half in the year 345.\n\nIn the 1630s, there are several reports from the Levant and Egypt that monks were killed. One of them, Brother Conrad d'Elis Barthelemy, a native of Montepulciano is said to have been sawn in two, from the head and downwards.\nWriting in 1843, William Holt Yates speaks of a governor under Muhammad Ali (r.1801–49), Abd-ur-Rahman Bey, who was said to be particularly cruel and avaricious. He was a renegade Copt, and abused his position to gain hold of wealth. He is even credited with having sawed people in two. Yates further supplies the detail: \"This fellow has since been assassinated-report says, with sanction and approval of the Government\"\n\nOne of the most notorious cases of sawing as execution is that of the Alcaide (castellan/governor) Melec under emperor Moulay Ishmael (r. 1672–1727). The fullest description of this execution is found in Dominique Busnot's 1714 work \"Histoire du règne de Mouley Ismael\", although a brief notice of the event can be found in the January 1706 edition of \"Present state of Europe\". In the following, the tale as told by Busnot will be given.\n\nMelec was judged as the chief rebel to be punished in a rebellion instigated by one of the emperor's sons, Mulay Muhammad. In particular, according to Busnot, the empress was incensed that Melec had personally beheaded one of her cousins, Ali Bouchasra. In September/October 1705, Mulay Ismail sent for his chief carpenter and asked if his saws were capable of sawing a man in two. The carpenter answered \"Sure enough\". He was then given the grisly task, and before he left, he asked him whether Melec should be sawn across or along the length. The emperor said the sawing should proceed lengthwise, from the head downwards. He told, however, Boachasra's sons, they should follow the carpenter and decide for themselves how best to take revenge upon the murderer (i.e., Melec) of their father. Taking with him 8 of the public executioner's assistants, the master carpenter went to the prison where Melec was held, two of his brand new saws packed in cloth, in order to keep from Melec information of the intended manner of execution. Melec was now placed on a mule, bound with an iron chain, and led to the public square, where some 4000 of his relatives and members of his tribe were assembled. These made a \"terrifying\" spectacle through screaming, and clawing their faces in a public display of grief. Melec, on the other hand, seemed unperturbed, calmly smoking from his tobacco pipe. When taken down from the mule, Melec's clothes were removed, damning letters \"proving\" his treason was cast in the fire.\n\nThen, he was strapped onto a board, and placed upon a sawbench, his arms and legs fastened. The executioner's team then sought to start by sawing him from the head downwards, but Boucasra's sons intervened, and demanded that one began between Melec's legs instead, because otherwise, he would die too quickly. Under the terrible screams of Melec and his relatives, thus began his execution. Once they had sawed him up to the navel, they pulled out the saw in order to commence from the other side. Melec is said to have been still conscious, asking for some water. His friends, though, thought it best to hasten his demise and shorten his sufferings, and the executioners went on, sawing him from skull to navel so he fell apart. In the process, chunks of flesh were ripped out by the saw's teeth, causing blood to splatter everywhere, thus making the execution quite unbearable to watch.\n\nAround 300 other conspirators were impaled alive, and another report states that in addition to these, some other 20 chief conspirators had their arms and legs sawed off, and left to expire in the marketplace.\n19 July 1721, a noble descended from the Andalusian Moors, Larbe Shott was put to the saw. He had spent considerable time at Gibraltar, and one of the crimes imputed to him was to have spent time in Christian kingdoms without his emperor's leave. Furthermore, he had been found guilty of defiling himself with Christian women, and often drunk alcohol. In short, he was charged as an apostate and unbeliever, in addition to being charged with having invited the \"Spaniards\" to invade Barbary (i.e., treason). They brought him to one of the gates in the city, fastened him between two boards, and sawed him in two, from skull and downwards. After his death, Mulay Ishmael pardoned him, so that his body could be picked up and given a decent burial at least, instead of being eaten by the dogs.\n\nIn 1757, a French officer was executed by his men in a mutiny on Cat Island in current-day Mississippi. Three of the mutineers were eventually captured and brought to New Orleans for trial. After conviction, two of the mutineers died on the French wheel. The last mutineer, a Swiss from the Karrer regiment, was allegedly, nailed into a coffin-shaped wooden box, and it was sawed into with a cross-cut saw. This claim of a Swiss being sawed in two was first made by the French captain and traveller Jean Bernard Bossu in his 1768 \"Nouveaux Voyages aux Indes Occidentales\", translated into English by Johann Reinhold Forster in 1771.\n\nCommenting on Bossu's general reliability in a footnote to his essay \"A Map within an Indian Painting?\", jurist Morris S. Arnold says the following: \"Bossu's books contain a lot of tall tales, so one needs to be cautious about relying on him\". Bossu claims that being \"sawed asunder\" was a traditional Swiss military punishment, and alleges that one Swiss mutineer actually committed suicide to avoid that punishment. Therefore, the one who was allegedly sawed in half had his punishment as governed by Swiss military law, rather than French. An incident from 1741 (in Louisbourg, Canada) shows that at that time, when two Frenchmen and a Swiss were executed, Swiss mercenary troops had been placed under French military law, rather than under Swiss. Furthermore, detailing the recorded executions in the Swiss Canton of Zürich through the 15th-18th century, Gerold Meyer von Knonau records 1445 executions in total, none of them being through death by sawing.\nIn August 1791, a great slave revolt broke out at Saint-Domingue, eventually leading to Haitian independence. In the process, some 4,000 white planters and their family members were massacred. One of the victims was a carpenter by trade, Robert. The rebels decided he \"should die in the way of his occupation\" and accordingly fastened him between two boards and sawed him apart.\n\nIn 1123, Joscelin de Courtenay and Baldwin II were separately ambushed and surprised by a Turkish emir, Balac, and made prisoners at the castle at Quartapiert. Some 50 Armenians, bound by oath to Joscelin as Count of Edessa, decided to free their liege lord as well as Baldwin II. Dressed as monks and pedlars, they gained entry in the town where the two nobles were held captive, and managed, through massacre, to take control of the castle. Joscelin slipped out in order to raise a force, while Baldwin II and his nephew Galeran remained behind to hold the castle. Apprised of the capture of the castle, Balac sent quickly a force to recapture it, and Baldwin II saw no possibility of holding it. Graciously, Balac took Baldwin and his nephew merely prisoners. Not so merciful was he towards the Armenians: Several of them were flayed, others buried up to the neck and used as target practice, the rest were sawn apart.\nThe Assassins, a misnomer for the Nizari, an Ismaili sect, had an independent kingdom in the Levant during the age of the Crusades, and were feared and loathed by Muslims and Christians alike. The Jewish traveller Benjamin of Tudela, travelling the region around 1157 notes that the Assassins were reputed to saw in two the kings of other peoples, if they managed to capture them.\n\nA number of accounts exist where the Ottomans are said to have sawn persons in two, most of them said to occur in Mehmed the Conqueror's reign (1451–81).\nA number of cruel excesses against the populace of Constantinople is said to have happened in the wake of the taking of the city. according to one rendering of the tale:\nAfter the last Despot of Morea, Demetrios Palaiologos in 1460 switched allegiance to the Turks and gave them entry to Mystras, a tale grew up that the actual castellan at the castle of Mystras was ordered sawn in two. This tale was \"well known\" in later centuries, whatever actual veracity.\nIn 1460, the Hungarian general Michael Szilágyi was seized by the Turks, and since he was regarded as a traitor and spy, he was sawed in half at Constantinople.\nIn the following years, inhabitants in Greece under the Venetians fought several battles in the Morea. In 1464, for example, a small city is said to have been subdued, and 500 prisoners sent to Constantinople. There, they were put to the saw, according to one account.\nThe Knights Hospitallers, then stationed at Rhodes, sent several knights to aid in the defence of Mytilene from the Turks. They eventually surrendered, under promise of having their lives spared. Instead, according to some reports, they were sawed asunder. According to Kenneth Meyer Setton, the sultan had actually promised to spare the heads of some 400 knights, and sawed them in half to keep his oath of not harming the heads.\nThe Triarchy of Negroponte, a Crusader state or \"Stato da Màr\" under control of the Republic of Venice, was extinguished by the capture of the city in 1469/1470, and the governor Paolo Erizzo, is said to treacherously to have been ordered sawn in two, after have being promised his life would be spared. The sultan, Mehmed the Conqueror, is said to have cut off the head of Erizzo's daughter by his own hands, because she would not yield to his desires.\nIn 1473, a Sicilian called Anthony, is said to have managed set fire to the sultan's ships at the Sanjak of Gelibolu, Gallipoli. After being captured at Negroponte, he was brought before the sultan who asked him what harm had been done to him that he performed such an evil deed? The young man answered that he simply wanted to harm the enemy of Christianity in some glorious way. The sultan is said to have ordered that Anthony should be sawn in two.\nIn 1480, the Ottomans, led by Gedik Ahmed Pasha, invaded mainland Italy, occupying Otranto. A general massacre, of disputed magnitude, occurred. Archbishop Stefano Pendinelli was, by some reports, ordered to be sawn in half.\nDionysius the Philosopher led an eventually unsuccessful revolt against the Ottomans, seeking to establish a power base at Ioannina. Dionysius was flayed alive, and his skin, stuffed with straw, was sent as a present to the sultan, Ahmed I, at Constantinople. The other principal conspirators were said to be punished in various ways, some were burnt alive, others impaled, and yet others sawn asunder.\nRigas Feraios (1760–98), was an early Greek patriot, whose struggle for independence of Greece preceded with about 30 years the general uprising known as the Greek War of Independence. His actual manner of death has garnered many tales; Encyclopædia Britannica 1911, for example, states that he was shot in the back. Yet others state that he was strangled. Some 19th century stories report that he was sawn in two. Finally, one source asserts he was beheaded.\n\nThe Sikh Bhai Mati Das, a follower of the 9th guru, Guru Tegh Bahadur was in 1675 AD ordered executed by emperor Aurangzeb, along with several other prominent Sikhs, including their Guru, because of their refusal to convert to Islam. Bhai Mati Das was sawed in half, the others in different manners.\n\nSeveral reports state that even in the 1820s, sawing criminals in two was an occasional punishment in Burma for \"certain offenses\". The criminals were fastened between two planks prior to the sawing. However, this might possibly have been conflated by reports of \"disembowelment\", for which eyewitness reports exist.\n\nThe Burmese general Maha Bandula is said to have had one of his high-ranking officers sawn in two, due to some act of disobedience, the person being fastened between two planks for that purpose.\n\nOn occasion, a confusion of reports may exist where, for example, performed post-mortem indignities are misinterpreted as the actual manner of execution:\n\nIn 1839, the governor of Vietnam's Nam Định Province summoned five hundred soldiers to a banquet to pressure them into trampling upon a cross in renunciation of Christianity. Most of the guests complied, but three Catholic soldiers refused. One of the Vietnamese Martyrs, Augustin Huy, is reported by some sources to have been sawed in two. Others report that he was hacked to death, or cut in two. But, a letter from 1839, just three weeks after the execution 12 June, states that he was beheaded.:\n\nThe movement of a saw may cause a body to sway back and forth making the process difficult for the executioners. The Chinese overcame this problem by securing the victim in an upright position between two boards firmly fixed between stakes driven deep into the ground. Two executioners, one at each end of the saw, would saw downwards through the stabilized boards and enclosed victim. Whether sawing as an execution method actually existed, or that cases referred to are garbled accounts of the \"slow slicing\" method of execution will remain an open question.\nThe emperor Zhaozong of Tang (r. 888–904) is said to have commanded one of his prisoners sawn asunder.\nWhen the last emperor of the Ming dynasty committed suicide in 1644, the new emperor had one of the previous regime's strongest supporters, Chen, said to be viceroy of Canton, sawed in two. However, growing in popularity in his martyrdom, the new regime condemned the execution of Chen, declared him to have been a holy man, and erected a pagoda in Canton for his memory.\n\nIn the aftermath of the destruction of the last Islamic kingdom in Spain, Granada in 1492, the Moriscoes, the descendants of Muslims and those who still were, in secret, adherents of Islam, felt increasingly persecuted. In 1568, the Morisco revolt broke out, under leadership of Aben Humeya. The crushing of the revolt was extremely bloody, and at Almería 1569, the historian Luis del Marmol Carvajal states that one Morisco was sawn apart alive.\nIn the Spanish rebellion of 1808 against the occupying French forces, reports exist that some French officers were sawed in two. In one of those reports, it is colonel Rene (or Frene) who met this fate. In another report, Rene was merely thrown into a kettle of boiling water, whereas the officers Caynier and Vaugien were the ones sawed in two.\n\nAfter the Fire of Moscow in September 1812, the French Grande Armée had not exactly endeared itself to the local population. The peasant population is said to have become embittered, fanaticized, and even developed an effective guerrilla. In addition, the \"wild Cossacks\" lurked about, and both groups of Russians could be a deadly enemy to solitary French soldiers. Some of those unfortunates are said to have been sawed apart.\n\nThe Hungarian Revolution of 1848 was a bitter struggle where different ethnicities and people of different religious persuasions committed atrocities against others. A decidedly partisan pamphlet from 1850, \"Ungarns gutes recht\" (\"The well-founded right of Hungary\") from 1850, states that in the struggles around Banat, some 4,000 Serbians, spurred on by the preaching of the Metropolitan of Karlovci, Josif Rajačić, committed heinous deeds against the Hungarians. Women, children and old men were mutilated, roasted over slow fires, some sawn apart.\n\nIn Hindu lore, Yama is the god of death. He determines the punishments to those who were wicked in life. Those guilty of robbing a Brahmin, are to be sawn apart while being in \"Naraka\" (Hell).\nSawing people asunder is one of the punishments said to occur in Buddhist Hell, and the priests knew how to make a visible spectacle of sufferings in the beyond, by commissioning artists to make paintings the populace were meant to see and reflect upon:\n\nIn Italy and Spain, a curious tradition of \"segare la vecchia\" (\"sawing the old woman\") was upheld on Laetare Sunday (Mid-Lent Sunday) in hamlets and towns, well into the 19th century. The custom consisted of the boys running about to find the \"oldest woman in the village\", and then make a wooden effigy in her likeness. Then, the wooden figure was sawn across the middle. The folklorist Jacob Grimm regards this as an odd spring ritual, in which the \"old year\"/winter is symbolically defeated. He also notes that a rather similar custom existed in his day among Southern Slavs.\n\n"}
{"id": "21325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21325", "title": "Demographics of Nepal", "text": "Demographics of Nepal\n\nIn the 2011 census, Nepal's population was approximately 26 million people with a population growth rate of 1.35% and a median age of 21.6 years. In 2016, the female median age was approximately 25 years old and the male median age was approximately 22 years old. Only 4.4% of the population is estimated to be more than 65 years old, comprising 681,252 females and 597,628 males. 61% of the population is between 15 and 64 years old, and 34.6% is younger than 14 years. In 2011, the Birth rate is estimated to be 22.17 births per 1,000 people with an infant mortality rate of 46 deaths per 1,000 live births. Compared to the infant mortality rate in 2006 of 48 deaths per 1000 live births, the 2011 IMR is a slight decrease within that 5-year period. Infant mortality rate in Nepal is higher in rural regions at 44 deaths per 1000 live births, whereas in urban regions the IMR is lower at 40 deaths per 1000 live births. This difference is due to a lack of delivery assistance services in rural communities compared to their urban counterparts who have better access to hospitals and neonatal clinics. Life expectancy at birth is estimated to be 67.44 years for females and 64.94 years for males. The mortality rate is estimated to be 681 deaths per 100,000 people. Net migration rate is estimated to be 61 migrants per 100,000 people. According to the 2011 census, 65.9% of the total population is literate.\n\nThe population of Nepal has been steadily rising recent decades. In the June 2001 census, there was a population of about 23 million in Nepal. The population increased by 5 million from the last census (1991); the growth rate is 2.3%. The current population is roughly 30 million which contributes to an increase of about 3 million people every 5 years.\n\nSixty caste and linguistic subgroups have formed throughout time with the waves of migration from Tibet and India. There was a moderate amount of immigration early in Nepal's history, then the population essentially remained the same without any significant fluctuations for over one hundred years. Natural disasters and the following government resettlement programs in the 1950s led to a spike in internal migration from the hills to the Terai region. In the 1980s the Western Chitwan Valley became a major transportation hub for all of Nepal. Along with this major change came a dramatic increase in government services, business expansion, and growing employment, especially in the agricultural industry. The valley's population grew rapidly through both in-migration and natural increase.\n\nSource:\n\nBirths and deaths \n\nStructure of the population (22.06.2011) (Census) :\n\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n\nTotal Fertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and Crude Birth Rate (CBR):\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the 2011 Nepal Demographic and Health Survey (NDHS).\n\nMedian birth intervals (Median number of months since preceding birth)\n\nMedian age at first birth\n\nFertility rate - past trend and present\n\nIdeal family size - Mean ideal number of children\n\nIdeal family size by gender and age group\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\nNationality\n\nReligions\nLiteracy\n\nPopulation\n\nAge structure\n\nMedian age\n\nPopulation growth rate\n\nBirth rate\n\nDeath rate\n\nNet migration rate\n\nTotal fertility rate\n\nUrbanization\n\nSex ratio\n\nNepal's diverse linguistic heritage evolved from three major language groups: Indo-Aryan, Tibeto-Burman languages, and various indigenous language isolates. According to the 2001 national census, 92 different living languages are spoken in Nepal (a 93rd category was \"unspecified\"). Based upon the 2011 census, the major languages spoken in Nepal (percentage spoken out of the mother tongue language) includes\n\nNepali (derived from Khas bhasa) is considered to be a member of Indo-European language and is written in Devanagari script. Nepali was the language of the house of Gorkhas in the late 18th century and became the official, national language that serves as the \"lingua franca\" among Nepalese of different ethnolinguistic groups. Maithili language—along with regional dialects Awadhi and Bhojpuri—are mother tongue Nepalese languages and spoken in the southern Terai Region. Many Nepali in government and business uses English as an official language. English is the language of technical, medical, and scientific community as well as the elite bankers, traders, and entrepreneurs. There has been a surge in the number and percentage of people who understand English. Majority of the urban and a significant number of the rural schools are English-medium schools. Higher education in technical, medical, scientific and engineering fields are entirely in English. Nepal Bhasa, the mother-tongue of the Newars, is widely used and spoken in and around Kathmandu Valley and in major Newar trade towns across Nepal.\n\nOther languages, particularly in the Inner Terai hill and mountain regions, are remnants of the country's pre-unification history of dozens of political entities isolated by mountains and gorges. These languages typically are limited to an area spanning about one day's walk. Beyond that distance, dialects and languages lose mutual intelligibility. Since Nepal's unification, various indigenous languages have come under threat of extinction as the government of Nepal has marginalized their use through strict policies designed to promote Nepali as the official language. Indigenous languages which have gone extinct or are critically threatened include Byangsi, Chonkha, and Longaba. Since democracy was restored in 1990, however, the government has worked to improve the marginalization of these languages. Tribhuvan University began surveying and recording threatened languages in 2010 and the government intends to use this information to include more languages on the next Nepalese census.\n\nAs of the 2011 census, 81.3% of the Nepalese population was Hindu, 9.0% Buddhist, 4.4% Muslim, 3.0% Kirant/Yumaist, 1.42% Christian, and 0.9% followed other or no religion.\n\nNepal defines itself as a Hindu nation based in the caste system of traditional Hindu ideology. It is common for many Hindus in the country to also worship Buddhist deities simultaneously with Hindu traditions. The notion of religion in Nepal is more fluid than other countries, particularly Western countries. The Nepali people build their social networks through their religious celebrations, which are a central part to the whole of communities within the country.\n\nThere is a general ideal held by the Nepalese people that there is an omnipotent, transcendental \"moral order\" that is sacred to Hinduism. This ideal exists along with the constant presence of chaos and disorder in the material world. In the Northwestern region of the country, this all-encompassing state of disorder in the world is synonymous with human affliction, for which the religious Shamans can alleviate. Shamans create a world of mythic time and space to restore order and balance to the world to cure the suffers.\n\nKathmandu Valley is home to the Newars, a major ethnic group in Nepal. The city Bhaktapur is located inside of Kathmandu Valley. Bhaktapur was once an independent Hindu Kingdom. Individual homes typically have at least one shrine devoted to personal deities, with an altar displaying flowers, fruit, and oil among other offerings to the Gods. The perimeter of Kathmandu Valley is lined with shrines devoted to Hindu goddesses, whose purpose is to protect the city from chaotic events.In fact, at least one shrine can be found on the vast majority of streets in Kathmandu. The people of Nepal do not feel the need to segregate or compete based upon religion, so Hindu and Buddhist shrines are often coexisting in the same areas. The areas outside of the city are perceived to always possess some form of wild or disordered nature, so the Nepalese people inside of the city lines regularly worship the Hindu gods through public ceremonies.\n\nThe Hindu god Vishnu symbolizes moral order in the Newar society. The natural human shortcomings in maintaining the godly moral order is represented by the Hindu god Shiva. Shiva is destructive and acts in greed, and he threatens the moral order. In ancient myths, Vishnu must step in to contain Shiva and restore the order. In recent times, there has been a rise in political violence, specifically Maoist violence. This increased violence, along with the widespread poverty creates times of hardship for the people of Nepal. During their struggles they find stability and peace in religion.\n\nNepal's constitution continues long-standing legal provisions prohibiting discrimination against other religions (but also proselytization). The king was defied as the earthly manifestation of the Hindu god Vishnu. On May 19, 2006, the government faced a constitutional crisis, the House of Representatives which had been just reformed, having been previously dissolved, declared Nepal a \"secular state\".\n\nHowever, the 2001 census identified 80.6% of the population as Hindu and 10.7% as Buddhist (although many people labeled Hindu or Buddhist often practice a syncretic blend of Hinduism, Buddhism, or animist traditions), 4.2% of the population was Muslim, 3.6% of the population followed the indigenous Kirat Mundhum religion and Christianity was practiced by 0.45% of the population.\n\nBuddhist and Hindu shrines and festivals are respected and celebrated by most Nepalese. Certain animist practices of old indigenous religions survive.\n\nThe Kirati people of eastern Nepal, Limbus together with Rais form one of the largest single ethnic groups in Nepal. Pahari Hill Hindus of the Khas (Bahun and Chhetri castes) and the Newar ethnicity dominated the civil service, the judiciary and upper ranks of the army throughout the Shah regime (1768–2008). Nepali was the national language and Sanskrit became a required school subject. Children who spoke Nepali natively and who were exposed to Sanskrit had much better chances of passing the national examinations at the end of high school, which meant they had better employment prospects and could continue into higher education. Children who natively spoke local languages of the Madhesh and Hills, or Tibetan dialects prevailing in the high mountains were at a considerable disadvantage. This history of exclusion coupled with poor prospects for improvement created grievances that encouraged many in ethnic communities such as Madhesi and Tharu in the Tharuhat and Madhesh and Kham Magar in the mid-western hills to support the Unified Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) and various other armed Maoist opposition groups such as the JTMM during and after the Nepalese Civil War. The negotiated end to this war forced King Gyanendra to abdicate in 2008. Issues of ethnic and regional equity have tended to dominate the agenda of the new republican government and continue to be divisive. Today, even after the end of a 10-year-old Maoist conflict, the upper caste dominates every field in Nepal. Specifically, Brahmin and Chhetri (Indo-Aryan) have advantage everywhere. Although Newars are low in numbers, their urban living habitat gives them a competitive advantage. Thus, Newars are the toppers in Human Development Index. From a gender perspective, Newari women are the most literate and lead in every sector. Brahmins and Chhetris' women have experienced less social and economic mobility compared to Newari women. Specifically, Brahmin women experience less equality due to their predominately rural living conditions which deprives them of access to certain educational and healthcare advantages.\n\nIn the 2001 census, approximately 6,000 Nepalese were living in the UK. According to latest figure from Office for National Statistics estimates that 51,000 Nepal-born people are currently resident in the UK. There has been increasing interest in the opportunities offered in the UK by the Nepalese, especially education. Between the years of 2001 to 2006, there were 7,500 applications for student visas.\n\nThe Nepali people residing in Hong Kong are primarily made up of children of ex-Gurkhas; born in Hong Kong during their parents' service with the British Army's Brigade of Gurkhas, which was based in Hong Kong from the 1970s until the handover. Large groups of Nepali people can be found in Shek Kong and Yuen Long District off of the main bases of the British army. Many ex-Gurkhas remained in Hong Kong after the end of their service under the sponsorship of their Hong Kong-born children, who held right of abode.\n\nNepalese of middle age or older generations in Hong Kong are predominantly found in security, while those of younger generations are predominantly found in the business industry.\n\nMostly the people from Kirati ethnic groups such as Rai and Limbu are the ones residing in Hong Kong and other neighbouring nations such as Singapore and Japan\n\nNepalese migrants abroad have suffered tremendous hardships, including some 7,500 deaths in the Middle East and Malaysia alone since the year 2000, some 3,500 in Saudi Arabia.\n\nAccording to the 2001 census, there were 116,571 foreign born citizens in Nepal; 90% of them were of Indian origin followed by Bhutan, Pakistan and China. This number does not include the refugees from Bhutan and Tibet.\n\n"}
{"id": "14449632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14449632", "title": "Dental public health", "text": "Dental public health\n\nDental Public Health (DPH) is a non-clinical specialty of dentistry that deals with the prevention of oral disease and promotion of oral health. Dental public health is involved in the assessment of key dental health needs and coming up with effective solutions to improve the dental health of populations rather than individuals.\n\nPrevention is becoming increasingly important. Dental related diseases are largely preventable and there is a growing burden on health care systems for cure. Dental public health looks beyond the role of a dental practitioner in treating dental disease, and seeks to reduce demand on health care systems by redirection of resources to priority areas. Countries around the world all face similar issues in relation to dental disease. Implementation of policies and principles vary due to available of resources. Similar to public health, an understanding of the many factors that influence health will assist the implementation of effective strategies.\n\nPublic health dentistry, is practiced generally through government sponsored programs, which are for the most part directed toward public-school children in the belief that their education in oral hygiene is the best way to reach the general public. The pattern for such programs in the past was a dental practitioners annual visit to a school to lecture and to demonstrate proper tooth-brushing techniques. The 1970s saw the emergence of a more elaborate program that included a week of one-hour sessions of instruction, demonstration, and questions and answers, conducted by a dentist and a dental assistant and aided by a teacher who had previously been given several hours of instruction. Use was also made of televised dental health education programs, which parents were encouraged to observe.\n\nThere seems to be a lot more that can be done to help individuals prevent tooth decay and gum disease based on what is already known.\n\nEven with fluoridation and oral hygiene, tooth decay is still the most common diet–related disease affecting many people. Tooth decay has the economic impact of heart disease, obesity and diabetes.\n\nDental decay is however easily prevented by reducing acid demineralisation caused by the remaining dental plaque left on teeth after brushing. Risk factors for tooth decay include physical, biological, environmental, behavioural, and lifestyle-related factors such as high numbers of cariogenic bacteria, inadequate salivary flow, insufficient fluoride exposure, poor oral hygiene, inappropriate methods of feeding infants, and poverty.' Neutralising acids after eating and at least twice a day brushing with fluoridated toothpaste will assist prevention.\n\nCavities can develop on any surface of a tooth, but are most common inside the pits and fissures in grooves on chewing surfaces. This is where the toothbrush bristles and fluoride toothpaste cannot reach effectively.\n\nGum diseases gingivitis and periodontitis are caused by certain types of bacteria that accumulate in remaining dental plaque. The extent of gum disease depends a lot on host susceptibility.\n\nDaily brushing must include brushing of both the teeth and gums. Effective brushing itself, will prevent progression of both dental decay and gum diseases. Neutralising acids after eating and at least twice a day brushing with fluoridated toothpaste will assist preventing dental decay. Stimulating saliva flow assists in the remineralisation process of teeth, this can be done by chewing sugar free gum. Using an interdental device once daily will assist prevention of gum diseases.\n\nFissure sealants applied over the chewing surfaces of teeth, block plaque from being trapped inside pits and fissures. The sealants make brushing more effective and prevent acid demineralisation and tooth decay. A diet low in fermentable carbohydrates will reduce the buildup of plaque on teeth.\n\nThe American Board of Dental Public Health (ABDPH) have devised a list of competencies for dental public health specialists to follow. Dental public health specialists are a select group of certified dentists. The 10 competencies allow for growth and learning of individuals and set expectations for the future. An advantage of the design is that they are implementable on a global level. The list is updated periodically.\n\nMajor areas of dental public health activity include:\n\nNational Oral Health Surveillance system (NOHSS) is designed to monitor the effects of oral disease on the population, as well as monitor how the oral care is delivered. Additionally the status of water fluoridation on both a state and a national level is continually supervised \n\nDental health is concerned with promoting health of an entire population and focuses on an action at a community level, rather than at an individual clinical approach. Dental public health is a broad subject that seeks to expand the range of factors that influences peoples oral health and the most effective means of preventing and treating these oral health problems.\n\nTo allow a health problem to be properly managed, it is important that there is a set of rules or criteria to follow which determines what is defined as a public health problem and what is the best way to manage health problems in communities. The following are questions should be considered when addressing public health problems:\n\nOnce these questions have been answered, the way a public health problem is acted upon to protect a population can be determined.\n\nWater fluoridation is the implementation of artificial fluoride in public water supplies with the intentions to halt the progression of dental diseases. Fluoride has the ability to interfere with the demineralisation and remineralisation process that occurs on the tooth surface and improves the mineral intake when the pH level may reduce below the neutral pH level.\n\nThis achievement was implemented through the public health development in the 19th, 20th century and led into the 21st century. Research into the effects of fluoride on teeth began due to the concern about the presence of dental fluorosis.\n\nMany clinical case trials occurred in the beginning of the 20th century. However, the very first clinical trial to have occurred dates back to the 19th century when Denninger conducted a trial prescribing children and pregnant women with calcium fluoride. From this trial it was recognised fluoride’s significance on tooth tissue and from this point, many clinical trials were conducted \nFollowing these studies, the recognition of the positive outcome on dental tissues became clear and projects in water fluoridation became of significant importance.\n\nThe development of artificial water fluoridation began in 1945 in the Grand rapid Michigan followed by Newburgh, New York and Evanston, Illinois. In 1955 three towns Watford, Kilmarnock and Anglesey trialled the water fluoridation implementation scheme. In 1960 the Republic of Ireland implemented all public water supplies with artificial fluoridated water and four years later extending this into the main cities of Dublin and Cork.\n\nCurrently, 40 countries have fluoridated water schemes implemented. Fluoride is still yet to be completely implemented across the full population however, progress is slowly improving and access is becoming more common.\n\nPrevention methods such as oral health promotion began with the education of clinicians and the population in the health promotion strategies. Since the mid 19th century oral health practice has revolved more around prevention and education rather than treatment of disease. This education can be focused towards dental practitioners and to the wider population who may interested.\n\nThere has been a change in focus in the education of developing clinicians all over the world. The first dental school was developed in 1828 and was followed by an ever-growing field of practice. The dental practice began with its main focus on the treatment of oral disease and branched into a wide scope of practice with many dental occupations involved.\n\nThe most common form of dental clinicians are either general dentists, oral health therapists, dental therapists and dental hygienist. When desired, some of these clinicians may seek further experience in projects that may assist the dental public system in bringing further awareness to prevention of dental diseases.\n\nOral health prevention is the current form of practice of many clinicians. As education in oral care to the population is now believed to be the superior solution rather than the treatment of disease. Dental university education now develops clinicians to focus on the education of patients, education of the community and a wider population using different approaches.\n\nOral Health Promotion outlines the strategies for improving and educating the general public about how they can better take improve and maintain their current oral health. Oral health promotion is part of both government and private incentives to create a healthier and better educated generation of individuals.\n\nThese are the nine key principles involved for oral health promotion: \n\nThere are three important way in achieving oral health promotion, which is done by addressing the determinants of oral health, community participation, and implementing a strategy approach that involves a range of complementary actions.\n\nDeterminants of oral health\n\nOral health promotion focuses on individual behaviour, the Socioeconomic status and environmental factors. Underlying determinants that can also impact oral health, including non-milk extrinsic sugars consumption, alcohol consumption and smoking behaviour.\n\nThe ability to remove dental plaque, exposure to fluoride and access to quality dental care can affect the ways the aforementioned underlying factors are and can be modified to the needs of the individual to obtain optimum oral health. Ways in which oral health promotion can minimise the effects of these determinants;\n\nIt is also important to note that these factors are also influenced by socio-political considerations that are outside the control of most individuals.\n\nCommunity participation is a key factor in oral health promotion. Inter-sectoral collaboration is where relevant agencies and sectors are involved in partnership to identify key oral health issues and to implement new methods to improve oral health.\n\nThe World Health Organization has agreed on a health promotion approach as the foundation for oral health improvement strategies and policies for the population. Oral health promotion is based on the principles of the framework, Ottawa Charter. There are five areas of action outlined to achieve oral health promotion; building Health public policy, creating supportive environment, strengthening community action, developing personal skills, re-orienting healthcare services.\n\nA study investigating the efficacy of staff workers' oral care education on improving the oral health of care home residents found that despite the education and training of care workers, certain ongoing barriers prevented them from conducting the necessary daily oral hygiene care for the residents. The most frequently listed obstacles to care included the residents' bad breath, inadequate time to perform oral care and uncooperative residents who do not perceive the need for oral care.\n\n\nTo find out if a child is eligible, families can contact the Department of Human Services \n\n\nFor information and eligibility criteria on each state or territory’s public dental services, visit your State Health Department website\n\n\nIn 1985 three dentists with the sponsorship of Colonel Joy Wheeler Dow, Jr., implemented an Oral Health Program in the Autonomous Region of Madeira with the aid of five assistants.\n\nThe four-year program reached 15,000 children around the main island and Porto Santo and it included Oral Hygiene Instruction classes, informative literature including films, fortnightly fluoride mouth-rinse and daily fluoride tables with the collaboration of the school teachers.\n\nDuring this period a study was undertaken using the World Health Organization (WHO) Combined Oral Health Assessment (CPTIN) plan resulting in the final report where it was found that there had been a decrease of 44% in the need for fillings, 40% decrease in the need for extractions, whilst the caries free children population grew from the initial 1% to 5%.\n\nNational Health Service (NHS) is the name of the public health services of England, Scotland and Wales and is directly funded from taxation. The dentistry services are available to all, regardless of wealth. In order to find a NHS dentist search NHS Dentist Near You Some clinics may not have the capacity to take on new patients so waiting lists may occur.\n\nAll treatment deemed necessary to maintain optimal oral health will be provided by the dentist, however not all treatments will be funded by the Dentistry NHS and will incur private fees.\n\nDentistry performed under the Dentistry NHS will involve fees, however are heavily subsidized by the government, below is some information which explains how the fee’s system works, only one charge is required per treatment course of care, regardless of the amount of appointments needed \n\nNepalese population is at a greater disadvantage than westernized societies in terms of oral health. The benefit of implementing health insurance is to assist a large number of people with similar risks by sharing funding. In Nepal, implementing health insurance is difficult due to limited supply of finances. To assist families with accessing health care “elimination of direct payments is necessary but is not sufficient alone; costs of transportation and loss of income can have more impact than direct payment of services” must be considered.\n\n\nFor more information, you can access the Around Good People fact sheet\n\nThe earliest known person identified as a dental practitioner dates back to 2600BC, an Egyptian scribe states that he was ‘the greatest of those who deal with teeth ad of physicians’\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9290393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9290393", "title": "Direcția Generală Anticorupție", "text": "Direcția Generală Anticorupție\n\nDirecţia Generală Anticorupţie (Anti-Corruption General Directorate, DGA) is an agency subordinated to the Romanian Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reform, tasked with preventing and investigating the corruption offenses, the criminal acts and misconduct among the personnel of the Ministry.\n\nThe Anti-Corruption General Directorate was established by the Law 161/2005 as the specialized structure for preventing of and fighting against corruption within the Ministry of Administration and Interior (MoAI).\n\nThe creation of the Anti-Corruption General Directorate was supported by the European Union, with the assistance of experts from Spain and the United Kingdom.\n\nDGA's mission is focused on preventing of and fighting against corruption offenses conducted by the Ministry of Administration and Interior personnel. Moreover, the Anti-Corruption General Directorate cooperates with public and private organizations with responsibilities in preventing and fighting corruption.\n\nDuring investigations, the DGA staff are legally required to observe the principles of objectivity, confidentiality and impartiality, as well as the human rights and civic freedoms.\n\nAnother objective of the Anti-Corruption General Directorate is anticipating and identifying risk factors and system vulnerabilities in regard to corruption-related offenses.\n\nThe Anti-corruption General Directorate has the duty to: \n\n"}
{"id": "4135395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4135395", "title": "Elaine Parent", "text": "Elaine Parent\n\nElaine Antoinette Parent (August 4, 1942 – April 6, 2002) was an American criminal known as \"the world's most wanted woman\" in the late nineties and early 2000s.\n\nShe was wanted for the murder of her potential roommate, Beverly McGowan, a 34-year-old bank clerk. McGowan had placed an ad in the paper looking for a roommate. A woman named \"Alice\" answered the ad. The woman was actually Parent. Soon after, McGowan disappeared; on July 19, 1990, her remains were found in a rural canal in St. Lucie County, Florida. She had been mutilated by removing a tattoo on her stomach, her head and hands to hinder the identification of her corpse but a small tattoo was enough to identify her.\n\nThe origin of Parent's nickname, the \"Chameleon Killer,\" was a photograph of an oil painting of herself she sent to police with the message \"Best wishes: your Chameleon\" typed on the back. The nickname was apt as she stole the identities of her victims and was found to have used McGowan's credit cards after she killed her. She also scoured graveyards for names and dates of birth and stole the information of other potential roommates by telling them she was a numerologist, soliciting their social security numbers, driver's licences and even birth certificates.\n\nWhen Florida police caught up with her in Panama City, Florida, on April 6, 2002, she committed suicide by shooting herself in the heart as they stood outside her bedroom door waiting for her to get dressed.\n\nThere have been concerns that in her time on the run she is likely to have committed other crimes.\nBeverly McGowan's murder and the search for Elaine Parent were profiled on \"Unsolved Mysteries\" and \"America's Most Wanted\". In 2014, it was featured on the Investigation Discovery program \"Swamp Murders.\"\n"}
{"id": "168188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168188", "title": "Frank Schmalleger", "text": "Frank Schmalleger\n\nFrank Schmalleger (born August 28, 1947) is the director of the Justice Research Association. In 1974, he received a Ph.D. in sociology (with a special emphasis in criminology) from Ohio State University. He is a professor emeritus at the University of North Carolina at Pembroke. He has also been affiliated with Webster University and was part of the online faculty of Connected Education.\n\nSchmalleger is a member of the Advisory Board of APB News Online. and is founder and co-director of the Criminal Justice Distance Learning Consortium. He is also the founding editor of \"The Justice Professional\", and serves as editor for \"Criminal Justice in the Twenty-first Century\", as well as Imprint Advisor for the \"Criminal Justice Reference Series\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4455683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4455683", "title": "George Remus", "text": "George Remus\n\nGeorge Remus (November 14, 1874 – January 20, 1952) was an American lawyer and bootlegger during the Prohibition era. Remus was known to have referred to himself in the third person after his rise to power during the early days of Prohibition, which he reportedly continued to do until his death. It has been claimed that he was the inspiration for the title character Jay Gatsby in \"The Great Gatsby\" by F. Scott Fitzgerald.\n\nRemus was born in Berlin, Germany in 1874 to Frank and Maria Remus. Remus' family moved to Chicago by the time he was 5. At age 14, George supported the family by working at his uncle's pharmacy because Remus' father was unable to work. Remus became a certified pharmacist at 19 years old after graduating from the Chicago College of Pharmacy and bought the pharmacy at age 21.\n\nWithin five years, Remus expanded, buying another drugstore. Remus soon tired of the pharmacy business and by 24, he had become a lawyer.\n\nRemus attended the Illinois College of Law (later merged with DePaul University College of Law) and was admitted to the Illinois Bar in 1904. Remus specialized in criminal defense, especially murder, and became rather famous. By 1920, Remus was earning $50,000 a year (approximately $ today), a vast sum at the time.\n\nAlcohol Prohibition began on January 17, 1920 with ratification of the 18th Amendment, and within a few months Remus saw that his criminal clients were becoming very wealthy very quickly. He decided to become a criminal himself, using his knowledge of the law to escape punishment.\n\nRemus memorized the Volstead Act and found loopholes whereby he could buy distilleries and pharmacies to sell \"bonded\" liquor to himself under government licenses for medicinal purposes. Remus's employees would then hijack his own liquor so that he could sell it illegally. Remus moved to Cincinnati, in the region of the country where 80 percent of America's bonded whiskey was located, and bought up most of the whiskey manufacturers. In less than three years Remus made $40 million with the help of his trusted number two man George Conners. Remus owned many of America's most famous distilleries, including the Fleischmann Distillery, which Remus bought for $197,000, a price which included 3,100 gallons of whiskey. \n\nIn addition to serving the Cincinnati community, many other small towns, such as Newport, Kentucky, began serving as drinking towns where gamblers opened small casinos to entertain their drunken patrons.\n\nOne of Remus' fortified distilleries was the Death Valley Farm, which he purchased from George Gehrum. The outside world thought it was only accessible by dirt road. The actual distillery was located at 2656 Queen City Ave. The alcohol was distilled in the attic of the home then dumb-waitered below. The basement was where a trap door was located and a tunnel approximately fifty to 100 feet long and six feet under the earth. The bootleggers would push the products along the tunnel out to a waiting car, usually making it safely away. It is believed to be one of the only locations never busted in the Cincinnati area. In 1920, a raid by hijackers took place, but Remus' armed guards, led by John Gehrum, fired heavy volleys at the hijackers and, after a short fight, the wounded attackers left.\n\nIn addition to becoming the \"King of the Bootleggers\", Remus was known as a gracious host. He held many parties, including a 1923 birthday party for his wife Imogene in which she appeared in a daring bathing suit along with other aquatic dancers, serenaded by a fifteen-piece orchestra. Children in the area also saw Remus as a fatherly figure. Jack Doll recalls an episode in which Remus playfully tossed a boy into his Olympic-sized swimming pool and then gave him $10 to buy a new suit. Doll states that a full boy's suit could be purchased for one dollar in 1920.\n\nRemus and his wife held a New Year's Eve party at their new mansion, nicknamed the Marble Palace, in 1922. The guests included one hundred couples from the most prestigious families in the area. As parting gifts, Remus presented all the men with diamond stickpins, and gave each guest's wife a brand new car. Remus held a similar party in June 1923, during his problems with the government, when he gave each female guest (of the fifty present) a brand new Pontiac.\n\nOn July 20, 1899, Remus married Lillian Klauff. Their daughter, born in 1900, was Romola Remus, who became a child actress in silent films, playing cinema's first Dorothy Gale in the 1910 version of \"The Wizard of Oz\" when she was eight years old. The marriage ended in divorce in 1920 after Remus began an affair with his legal secretary, Augusta Imogene Holmes (née Brown). Holmes was a young divorcée with a young daughter, Ruth. Remus and Holmes were married in Newport, Kentucky in June 1920.\n\nIn 1925, Remus' plan to use his legal knowledge to evade the law went awry. He was indicted for thousands of violations of the Volstead Act, convicted by a jury that made its decision in under two hours, and given a two-year federal prison sentence. He spent two years in Atlanta Federal Penitentiary for bootlegging. While he was in prison, Remus befriended another inmate and eventually confided in him that his wife,\nImogene Holmes, had control over his money. The inmate was an undercover prohibition agent Franklin Dodge, who was there to gather information of that sort. Instead of reporting the information, Dodge resigned his job and began an affair with Remus' wife. Dodge and Holmes liquidated Remus' assets and hid as much of the money as possible, in addition to attempting to deport Remus, and even hiring a hit man to murder Remus for $15,000. In addition, Remus's Fleischmann Distillery was sold by Holmes. Remus' wife gave her imprisoned husband only $100 of the multimillion-dollar empire he created.\n\nIn late 1927, Imogene Holmes filed for divorce from Remus. On the way to court, on October 6, 1927, for the finalization of the divorce, Remus had his driver chase the cab carrying Holmes and her daughter through Eden Park in Cincinnati, finally forcing it off the road. Remus jumped out and fatally shot Imogene in the abdomen in front of the Spring House Gazebo to the horror of park onlookers.\n\nThe prosecutor in the case was 30-year-old Charles Phelps Taft II, son of Chief Justice of the United States and former President William Howard Taft and brother of the future Senator Robert A. Taft. Although he had lost his last big case against another bootlegger, Taft was seen as a man with a bright political future. The trial made national headlines for a month, as Remus defended himself on the murder charge. Remus pleaded temporary insanity, and the jury deliberated only nineteen minutes before acquitting him. The State of Ohio then tried to commit Remus to an insane asylum since the jury found him insane, but prosecutors were thwarted by their previous claim (backed up by the prosecution's three well-known psychiatrists) that he could be tried for murder because he was not insane.\n\nGeorge Remus later moved to Covington, Kentucky (across the Ohio River from Cincinnati) where he lived out the next twenty years of his life modestly without incident. He married for a third and final time to his long time secretary Blanche Watson. Remus ran a small contracting firm, Washington Contracting, until he suffered a stroke in August 1950. \nFor the next two years, he lived in boarding house in Covington under the care of a nurse. Remus died on January 20, 1952 at the age of 77. He is buried beside his third wife at Riverside Cemetery in Falmouth, Kentucky.\n\nRemus is the subject of Craig Holden’s, \"The Jazz Bird A Novel\", Simon & Schuster, June 2008 \n\nRemus was featured in the 2011 Ken Burns documentary, \"Prohibition\"; texts written by Remus were read by Paul Giamatti. Remus has also been portrayed by Glenn Fleshler as a supporting character on HBO's Prohibition-era series \"Boardwalk Empire\" beginning in its second season. In this series, he is portrayed as having the quirk of referring to himself in the third person.\n\nIn 2014, Queen City Whiskey started producing small batch bourbon and rye whiskeys named after George Remus. The whiskey was distilled locally and was introduced in liquor stores and select bars throughout the Cincinnati region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42039658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42039658", "title": "Grup d'Elx", "text": "Grup d'Elx\n\nGrup d'Elx, is one of the post-World War II artistic movement in Valencia, was founded in Elche in October 1967 by poet Vicente Aguilera Cerní. The avant-garde group had connections to the Surrealist and Social realism movements and stressed the importance of both the human being and its social entourage.\n\nThe Grup d' Elx artists began their training in an precarious artistic scenario. Its activity was a task that built a bridge between modernity and vertebrate and radical vanguard, which for them was inseparable from a social transition out of the Francoist dictatorship. In this sense, as the members of El Paso or Dau al set, the artists of the Grup d' Elx conducted an art in which there are several components that are part of a common denominator: primacy of intense expressiveness, intentional reduction of color to a minimum and, finally, the belief in an artistic poetics of engagement centered on human beings and their social situation. In fact, one of its most representative members, Joan Castejón, was imprisoned for four years.\n\nThe group was inspired by the activity of other postwar artistic groups such as Dau al Set and Grup Parpalló. Members of Grup d'Elx included Joan Castejón, Albert Agulló, Antoni Coll y Sixto Marco.\n\nThe group dissolved in 1973.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30906194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30906194", "title": "Hector the Cat", "text": "Hector the Cat\n\nHector the Cat (also known as Hector Cat, Hector the Road Safety Cat or simply Hector) is a fictional cat and mascot created to aid the teaching of road safety to children in Australia. Educational material relating to the character was developed by the Australian Department of Transport in association with state and territory road authorities. \"Hector's road safety song\" became well known in Australia when it was shown as a public service announcement on television. The blue and yellow striped cat first appeared on a school calendar in 1971 with a storyline that he had lost eight of his nine lives due to \"ignorance of road safety practices\". This was followed by a short instructional film. In subsequent years other characters were introduced in calendars, instructional films, and comic books including Millie, his girlfriend (1973), Uncle Tom (1974), Hector and Millie's three kittens (1975) and his space friend Ding Dong (1982).\n\nA study in 1978 found that, although children enjoyed the characters and stories, the material had a number of inadequacies. It stressed that road safety research findings and child development theory would need to be considered for any future development.\n\nThe character is currently used by the Northern Territory Department of Transport to promote road awareness to children. The song \"Stop, Look, Listen, Think\" is featured in his Road Safety Show.\n\n"}
{"id": "16003986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16003986", "title": "Hope in Heaven", "text": "Hope in Heaven\n\nHope in Heaven is a documentary that examines the Philippines sex trade and the young women and children it trafficks.\nIt was part of a five-year development project funded by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) in cooperation with Mount Saint Vincent University (MSVU) and Saint Mary’s University, of Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.\n\n\"Hope in Heaven\", by filmmaker Meredith Ralston, examines the Philippines brutal sex trade and the young women and children it enslaves.\nSeen through the eyes of two idealistic female students and a male university professor, the film captures two years of Mila’s life and the people who befriend her, the poverty and squalor she lives of Angeles City she lives in.\nThe documentary depicts the social hygiene clinic in Angeles where hundreds of young women and children line up daily for health checks in primitive conditions.\nInterviews with prostitutes, mama-sans, community workers, academics and clients expose the complexity of prostitution in two very different cultures.\nThe documentary also shows live footage of seventeen children (some as young as ten years old) are rescued from a local brothel in Angeles and caught disturbingly on film.\n\n\"Hope in Heaven\" was part of a five-year development project funded by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) in cooperation with Mount Saint Vincent University (MSVU) and Saint Mary’s University, of Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.\n\nAll profits from the documentary were donated to the Women Helping Women Center in Angeles, Philippines, and to Mila, who suffers from tuberculosis.\n\n\nThe documentary was written, directed and produced by Meredith Ralston.\nRalston is a professor in the women's studies and political studies Departments at Mount Saint Vincent University and president of Ralston Productions Ltd. in Halifax where she lives.\nShe is a graduate of the UCLA School of Theater, Film and Television.\nRalston is a Fredericton High School graduate who studied political science at the University of New Brunswick before earning her degree at the University of Toronto.\n\nRalston published her book dealing with this as \"Reluctant Bedfellows\"\n\nin 2008.\n\nNarrated by Kiefer Sutherland.\n\n\"Hope In Heaven (Selling Sex in Heaven)\" won Best Documentary at the Big Bear Lake International Film Festival in California.\nIt was also featured at the Atlantic Film Festival in September 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21876167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21876167", "title": "Hungarians in Romania", "text": "Hungarians in Romania\n\nThe Hungarian minority of Romania (Hungarian: \"Magyarok Romániában\", Romanian: \"Maghiarii din România\") is the largest ethnic minority in Romania, consisting of 1,227,623 people and making up 6.1% of the total population, according to the 2011 census.\n\nMost ethnic Hungarians of Romania live in areas that were, before the 1920 Treaty of Trianon, parts of Hungary. Encompassed in a region known as Transylvania, the most prominent of these areas is known generally as Székely Land (Ținutul Secuiesc, Szekelyföld), where Hungarians comprise the majority of the population, comprising Harghita and Covasna counties and parts of Mureș county. Transylvania also includes the historic regions of Banat, Crișana and Maramureș. There are forty-one counties of Romania; Hungarians form a large majority of the population in the counties of Harghita (85.21%) and Covasna (73.74%), and a large percentage in Mureș (38.09%), Satu Mare (34.65%), Bihor (25.27%), Sălaj (23.35%) and Cluj (15.93%) counties.\n\nThe Hungarian tribes originated in the vicinity of the Ural Mountains, arrived in the territory formed by present-day Romania during the 9th century from Etelköz or \"Atelkuzu\" (roughly the space occupied by the present day Southern Ukraine, the Republic of Moldova and the Romanian province of Moldavia). Due to various circumstances (see Honfoglalás), the Magyar tribes crossed the Carpathians around 895 AD and occupied the Carpathian Basin (including present-day Transylvania) without significant resistance from the local populace. The precise date of the conquest of Transylvania is not known; the earliest Magyar artifacts found in the region are dated to the first half of the 10th century. While the Kingdom of Hungary emerged around 1000 AD the conquest of Transylvania was not completed until the late 12th century according to a historical theory.\n\nIn 1526, at the Battle of Mohács, the forces of the Ottoman Empire annihilated the Hungarian army and in 1571 Transylvania became an autonomous state, under the Ottoman suzerainty. The Principality of Transylvania was governed by its princes and its parliament (Diet). The Transylvanian Diet consisted of three Estates (Unio Trium Nationum): the Hungarian nobility (largely ethnic Hungarian nobility and clergy); the leaders of Transylvanian Saxons—German burghers; and the free Székely Hungarians.\n\nWith the defeat of the Ottomans at the Battle of Vienna in 1683, the Habsburg Empire gradually began to impose their rule on the formerly autonomous Transylvania. From 1711 onward, after the conclusion of Rákóczi's War for Independence, Habsburg control over Transylvania was consolidated, and the princes of Transylvania were replaced with Habsburg imperial governors. In 1765 the \"Grand Principality of Transylvania\" was proclaimed, consolidating the special separate status of Transylvania within the Habsburg Empire, established by the \"Diploma Leopoldinum\" in 1691. The Hungarian historiography sees this as a mere formality. Within the Habsburg Empire, Transylvania was administratively part of Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nAfter quashing the 1848 revolution, the Habsburg Empire imposed a repressive regime on Hungary and ruled Transylvania directly through a military governor. Habsburgs abolished the Unio Trium Nationum and granted citizenship to ethnic Romanians. However, in the compromise (Ausgleich) of 1867, which established the Austro-Hungarian Empire, the special status of Transylvania ended and it became a province under the control of the Kingdom of Hungary. Hungarian becomes the official language and a policy of Magyarization was applied to the various ethnic groups in Transylvania.\n\nFollowing defeat in World War I, Austria-Hungary disintegrated. The ethnic Romanian majority in Transylvania elected representatives, who then proclaimed Union with Romania on 1 December 1918.\n\nWith the conclusion of World War I, the Treaty of Versailles, formally signed in June 1919, recognized the sovereignty of Kingdom of Romania over Transylvania as a historic fact. The Treaties of St. Germain (1919) and Trianon (signed on June 1920) further elaborated the status of Transylvania and defined the new border between the states of Hungary and Romania. As a result, the more than 1.5 million Hungarian minority of Transylvania found itself becoming a minority group within Romania.\n\nIn August 1940, during the Second World War, the northern half of Transylvania was annexed to Hungary by the second Second Vienna Award. Historian Keith Hitchins summarizes the situation created by the award: \"Some 1,150,000 to 1,300,000 Romanians, or 48 per cent to over 50 per cent of the population of the ceded territory, depending upon whose statistics are used, remained north of the new frontier, while about 500,000 Hungarians (other Hungarian estimates go as high as 800,000, Romanian as low as 363,000) continued to reside in the south.\"\nThe Treaty of Paris (1947) after the end of the Second World War overturned the Vienna Award, and the territory of northern Transylvania was returned to Romania. The post-World War II borders with Hungary agreed on at the Treaty of Paris were identical with those set out in 1920.\n\nAfter the war, in 1952, a Magyar Autonomous Region was created in Romania by the communist authorities. The region was dissolved in 1968, when a new administrative organization of the country (still in effect today) replaced regions with counties. The communist authorities, and especially after Nicolae Ceaușescu's regime came to power, restarted the policy of Romanianization.\nToday, \"Transylvania proper\" (bright yellow on the accompanying map) is included within the Romanian counties (\"județe\") of Alba, Bistrița-Năsăud, Brașov, Cluj, Covasna, Harghita, Hunedoara, Mureș, Sălaj (partially) and Sibiu. In addition to \"Transylvania proper\", modern Transylvania includes Crișana and part of the Banat; these regions (dark yellow on the map) are in the counties of Arad, Bihor, Caraș-Severin, Maramureș, Sălaj (partially), Satu Mare, and Timiș.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Romanian Revolution of 1989, ethnic-based political parties were constituted by both the Hungarians, who founded the Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania, and by the Romanian Transylvanians, who founded the Romanian National Unity Party. Ethnic conflicts, however, never occurred on a significant scale, even though some violent clashes, such as the Târgu Mureș events of March 1990, did take place shortly after the fall of Ceaușescu regime.\n\nIn 1995, a basic treaty on the relations between Hungary and Romania was signed. In the treaty, Hungary renounced all territorial claims to Transylvania, and Romania reiterated its respect for the rights of its minorities. Relations between the two countries improved as Romania and Hungary became EU members in the 2000s.\n\nThe Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania (UDMR) is the major representative of Hungarians in Romania, and is a member of the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization. The aim of the UDMR is to achieve local government, cultural and territorial autonomy and the right to self-determination for Hungarians. UDMR is a member of the European Democrat Union (EDU) and the European People's Party (EPP). Since 1996, the UDMR has been a member or supporter of every governmental coalition.\n\nPolitical agreements have brought the gradual implementation of Hungarian language in everyday life: Public administration Law 215/2002 stipulates \"the use of national minority languages in public administration in settlements where minorities exceed 20% of the population\"; minority ethnics will receive a copy of the documents in Romanian language and a translation in their language; however, official documents are preserved by the local administration in Romanian only; local administration will provide inscriptions for the names of localities and public institutions under their authority, and display public interest announcements in the native language of the citizens of the respective ethnic minority under the same 20% rule.\n\nEven though Romania co-signed the European laws for protecting minorities' rights, the implementation has not proved satisfactory to all members of Hungarian community. There is a movement by Hungarians both for an increase in autonomy and distinct cultural development. Initiatives proposed by various Hungarian political organizations include the creation of an \"autonomous region\" in the counties that form the \"Szekler region\" (\"Székelyföld\"), roughly corresponding to the territory of the former Hungarian Autonomous Province as well as the historical Szekler land that had been abolished by the Hungarian government in the second half of the 19th century, and the re-establishment of an independent state-funded Hungarian-language university.\n\nHowever, the situation of the Hungarian minority in Romania has been seen as a model of cultural and ethnic diversity in the Balkan area: In an address to the American people, President Clinton asked in the midst of the air war in Kosovo: \"Who is going to define the future of this part the world... Slobodan Milošević, with his propaganda machine and paramilitary forces which compel people to give up their country, identity, and property, or a state like Romania which has built a democracy respecting the rights of ethnic minorities?\"\n\nSeveral ethnic Hungarians have won Olympic medals for Romania.\n\n\n\n\nThe Székely people are Hungarians who mainly live in an area known as Székely Land (\"Ținutul Secuiesc\" in Romanian), and who maintain a different set of traditions and different identity from that of other Hungarians in Romania. Based on the latest Romanian statistics (2011 Romanian census, 532 people declared themself \"Székelys\" rather than \"Hungarians.\". The three counties of the unofficial Székely Land - Harghita, Covasna, and Mureș - have a combined ethnic Hungarian population of 609,033.\n\nThe Csangos (, ) are people of Roman Catholic faith, some speaking a Hungarian dialect and some Romanian. They live mainly in the Bacău County, Moldavia region. The Csango settled there between the 13th and 15th centuries and today, they are the only Hungarian-speaking ethnic group living to the east of the Carpathians.\n\nThe ethnic background of Csango is nevertheless disputed, since, due to its active connections to the neighboring Polish kingdom and to the Papal States, the Roman Catholic faith persisted in Moldavia throughout medieval times, long after Vlachs living in other Romanian provinces, closer to the Bulgarian Empire, had been completely converted to Eastern-Rite Christianity. Some Csango claim having Hungarian ancestry while others claim Romanian ancestry. The Hungarian-speaking Csangos have been subject to some violations of basic minority rights: Hungarian-language schools have been closed down over time, their political rights have been suppressed and they have even been subject to slow, forced nationalisation by various Romanian governments over the years, because the Romanian official institutions deem Csangos as a mere Romanian population that was Magyarized in certain periods of time.\n\nThe number of Hungarian social and cultural organizations in Romania has greatly increased after the fall of communism, with more than 300 being documented a few years ago. There are also several puppet theatres. Professional Hungarian dancing in Romania is represented by the Maros Folk Ensemble (formerly State Szekler Ensemble) in Târgu-Mureș, the Hargita Ensemble, and the Pipacsok Dance Ensemble. Other amateur popular theaters are also very important in preserving the cultural traditions.\n\nWhile in the past the import of books was hindered, now there are many bookstores selling books written in Hungarian. Two public TV stations, TVR1 and TVR2, broadcast several Hungarian programs with good audiences also from Romanians. This relative scarcity is partially compensated by private Hungarian-language television and radio stations, like DUNA-TV which is targeted for the Hungarian minorities outside Hungary, particularly Transylvania. A new TV station entitled \"Transylvania\" is scheduled to start soon, the project is funded mostly by Hungary but also by Romania and EU and other private associations. There are currently around 60 Hungarian-language press publications receiving state support from the Romanian Government. While their numbers dropped as a consequence of economic liberalisation and competition, there are many others private funded by different Hungarian organizations. The Székely Region has many touristic facilities that attract Hungarian and other foreign tourists.\n\nAccording to Romania's minority rights law, Hungarians have the right to education in their native language, including as a medium of instruction. In localities where they make up more than 20% of the population they have the right to use their native language with local authorities.\n\nAccording to the official data of the 1992 Romanian census, 98% of the total ethnic Hungarian population over the age of 12 has had some schooling (primary, secondary or tertiary), ranking them fourth among ethnic groups in Romania and higher than the national average of 95.3%. On the other hand, the ratio of Hungarians graduating from higher education is lower than the national average. The reasons are diverse, including a lack of enough native-language lecturers, particularly in areas without a significant proportion of Hungarians.\n\nAt Babeș-Bolyai University Cluj-Napoca, the largest state-funded tertiary education institution in Romania, more than 30% of courses are held in the Hungarian language. There is currently a proposal by local Hungarians, supported by the Democratic Alliance of Hungarians in Romania (RMDSZ), to separate the Hungarian-language department from the institution, and form a new, Hungarian-only Bolyai University. The former Bolyai University was disbanded in 1959 by Romanian Communist authorities and united with the Romanian Babeș University to form the multilingual Babeș-Bolyai University that continues to exist today.\n\nMany Hungarians living in Transylvania were disconcerted when the referendum held in Hungary in 2004 on the issue of giving dual-citizenship to ethnic Hungarians living abroad failed to receive enough electoral attendance and the vote was uncertain. Some of them complain that when they are in Hungary, they are perceived as half-Romanians, and are considered as having differences in language and behaviour. However, a large proportion of Transylvanian Hungarians currently work or study in Hungary, usually on a temporary basis. After 1996, Hungarian-Romanian economic relations boomed, and Hungary is an important investor in Transylvania, with many cross-border firms employing both Romanians and Hungarians.\n\nA proposal supported by the RMDSZ to grant Hungarian citizenship to Hungarians living in Romania but without meeting Hungarian-law residency requirements was narrowly defeated at a 2004 referendum in Hungary (the referendum failed only because there were not enough votes to make it valid). After the failed vote, the leaders of the Hungarian ethnic parties in the neighboring countries formed the HTMSZF organization in January 2005, as an instrument lobbying for preferential treatment in the granting of Hungarian citizenship.\n\nIn 2010 some amendments were passed in Hungarian law facilitating an accelerated naturalization process for ethnic Hungarians living abroad; among other changes, the residency-in-Hungary requirement was waived. According to a RMDSZ poll conducted that year, over 85 percent of Romania's ethnic Hungarians were eager to apply for Hungarian citizenship. Romania's President Traian Băsescu declared in October 2010 that \"We have no objections to the adoption by the Hungarian government and parliament of a law making it easier to grant Hungarian citizenship to ethnic Hungarians living abroad.\"\n\nBetween 2011 and 2012, 200,000 applicants took advantage of the new, accelerated naturalization process; there were another 100,000 applications pending in the summer of 2012. As of February 2013, the Hungarian government has granted citizenship to almost 400,000 Hungarians ‘beyond the borders’. In April 2013, the Hungarian government announced that 280,000 of these were Romanian citizens.\n\nIn 2002, 46.5% of Romania's Hungarians were Reformed, 41% Roman Catholic, 4.5% Unitarian and 2% Romanian Orthodox. A further 4.7% belonged to various other Christian denominations.\n\n2011 census\nThe remaining 4,973 ethnic Hungarians live in the other counties of Romania, where they make up less than 0.1% of the total population.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2838569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2838569", "title": "Hype cycle", "text": "Hype cycle\n\nThe hype cycle is a branded graphical presentation developed and used by the American research, advisory and information technology firm Gartner, for representing the maturity, adoption and social application of specific technologies. The hype cycle provides a graphical and conceptual presentation of the maturity of emerging technologies through five phases.\n\nAn example of a hype cycle is found in \"Amara's law\" coined by Roy Amara, which states that We tend to overestimate the effect of a technology in the short run and underestimate the effect in the long run.\n\nEach hype cycle drills down into the five key phases of a technology's life cycle.\nThe term \"hype cycle\" and each of the associated phases are now used more broadly in the marketing of new technologies.\n\nHype (in the more general media sense of the term \"hype\") plays a large part in the adoption of new media forms by society. Terry Flew states that hype (generally the enthusiastic and strong feeling around new forms of media and technology in which people expect everything will be modified for the better) surrounding new media technologies and their popularization, along with the development of the Internet, is a common characteristic. But following shortly after the period of 'inflated expectations', as per the diagram above, the new media technologies quickly fall into a period of disenchantment, which is the end of the primary, and strongest, phase of hype.\n\nMany analyses of the Internet in the 1990s featured large amounts of hype, which created \"debunking\" responses. However, such hype and the negative and positive responses toward it have given way to research that looks empirically at new media and its impact.\n\nA longer-term historical perspective on such cycles can be found in the research of the economist Carlota Perez. D R Laurence in clinical pharmacology described a similar process in drug development in the seventies.\n\nThere have been numerous criticisms of the hype cycle, prominent among which are that it is not a cycle, that the outcome does not depend on the nature of the technology itself, that it is not scientific in nature, and that it does not reflect changes over time in the speed at which technology develops. Another is that it is limited in its application, as it prioritizes economic considerations in decision-making processes. It seems to assume that a business' performance is tied to the hype cycle, whereas this may actually have more to do with the way a company devises its branding strategy. A related criticism is that the \"cycle\" has no real benefits to the development or marketing of new technologies and merely comments on pre-existing trends. Specific disadvantages when compared to, for example, technology readiness level are:\nAn analysis of Gartner Hype Cycles since 2000 shows that few technologies actually travel through an identifiable hype cycle, and that in practice most of the important technologies adopted since 2000 were not identified early in their adoption cycles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3485734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3485734", "title": "Inspirational fiction", "text": "Inspirational fiction\n\nInspirational fiction is a sub-category within \"inspirational literature,\" or \"inspirational writing,\" defined in various ways in the United States and other nations. More and more bookstores (including online booksellers) and libraries consider inspirational fiction to be a separate genre, classifying and shelving books accordingly.\n\nOrganizations like \"LYRASIS\", the nation’s largest regional membership organization serving libraries and information professionals, have begun holding classes for library workers to \"explore the explosion in recent years in popularity of Inspirational Fiction and how it has blended in with all other genres to become appealing to more than its original target audience.\n\nLibraries are increasingly recognizing and using the categories of inspirational writing and inspirational fiction. In the larger category of \"inspirational writing,\" there are some books that easily and obviously fit, such as the \"Chicken Soup for the Soul\" series, clearly written for the purpose of providing anecdotes that provide inspiration to the readers. Inspiration fiction is fiction that focuses\non religious values;it provides readers with content that is non offensive and lacks explicit storylines. Finding a good definition for the subgenre of inspirational fiction is a little more difficult. However, while acknowledging that it is not a \"rigorous category,\" many libraries do identify and list some works in such a category, using some working definitions to explain their choices.\n\nFor example, one library list of \"inspirational fiction\" books begins with the statement:\n\nAny good book can be an inspiration, but many of these books highlight people overcoming adversity or reaching new levels of understanding. Whether they pull themselves up by their own bootstraps or have help from a higher power, these books will uplift and entertain you.\nWhile it is true that many novels involve a positive change in the lives of some characters, this library definition might help limit the books that fit into this category to those whose main purpose, if not their entire purpose, seem to be using the example of the change in the life of a major character to inspire readers to think that such changes are possible in their lives, as well. Also, the fact that this definition includes those who learn on their own and those who have help from a \"higher power\" allows the category to embrace both religious and non-religious works of fiction.Inspirational fiction specifically appeals to readers of all ages and backgrounds,specially \nthose interested inreligious works.\n\nWhile, as the above definition shows, \"inspirational fiction\" is a category and genre larger than religious writing, in the United States and Canada it is often used only to refer to \"religious fiction,\" \"faith-based fiction,\" or more narrowly (and perhaps most often), \"Christian fiction\". Some inspirational fiction is written to appeal to a general Christian audience, but more often in the United States \"inspirational fiction\" (and especially \"inspirational romance\") that can be classified as Christian is written for the Evangelical Protestant market. Although American literature has always been infused with religion, the popularity of Christian romance dates to the 1940s, as leaders of the Evangelical movement attempted to bring their faith into the mainstream both religiously and culturally. Some works of inspirational fiction have also been written to appeal to Roman Catholic or Orthodox Christian readers.\n\nOne definition of \"Christian fiction\" is literature that\n\n\"...celebrates God's presence in our life. It can be narrow and didactic or broad and literal. Character's relationship to God is the primary focus. Another definition is that these stories are about \"the journey of the soul.\" Readers seek \"wholesome, yet compelling\" reading. There is considerable interest in characters \"who are like the reader\" in some important way. Although the label \"Christian fiction\" is used..to reflect the fact that God plays a significant role in the plot and the outcome. Christian novels focus on ordinary people who are challenged to live their lives in accordance with Christian principles.\"\n\nJanette Oke's writings are an example of inspirational fiction that would often also fit into the Christian fiction genre, and she has often been referred to as one of the earliest and most prolific of writers in this category. Her books often focus on individuals, very often pioneers in the early West, who must draw upon a sense and awareness of faith to overcome adversity. Although most often identified with Christian writing, her books reach both religious and non-religious readers.\n\nMany books written by non-religious writers in other genres (including literary fiction, children's fiction, young adult fiction, and even science fiction) have begun to be classified as inspirational fiction. In fact,\"The Readers Advisory Guide to Genre Fiction\", published by the American Library Association, lists \"inspirational\" as a subgenre in every type of fiction it discusses, from westerns to thrillers, to romances. Inspirational Fiction could be broken down into these subgenres as well: Inspirational Romance Fiction, Inspirational Western Fiction, etc.\n\nSome American authors, like Mitch Albom, have built strong reputations on books like \"The Five People You Meet in Heaven\" and \"For One More Day\", which are marketed as inspirational fiction; and others, like \"Tuesdays With Morrie\" and \"Have a Little Faith\", which are marketed more in the category of inspirational non-fiction, or the larger category of inspirational literature, or inspirational writing.\n\nBecause it is often difficult to determine which books fit into the category of inspirational fiction according to a strict set of rules, libraries often include explanations (and sometimes, even disclaimers), such as the following:\n\nPlease note: The books listed here cover a wide variety of genres and types, from traditional inspirational fiction authors such as June Masters Bacher and Janette Oke, to thrillers such as those written by Paul Meier and fantasy and science fiction titles by J.R.R. Tolkien and C.S. Lewis. In addition, many titles address issues of faith from unconventional viewpoints. Some readers may question the suitability of titles that do not fit their personal view of what constitutes inspirational fiction; we simply ask that you keep in mind that individual readers' tastes vary. If you have questions about particular titles, please let us know.\n\nOne library distinguishes between inspirational fiction and the smaller category of religious fiction by noting that \"inspirational fiction is more broad based. Instead of dwelling on the religious aspects of faith, they emphasize morals, values and life lessons.\"\n\nIn the UK, \"inspirational fiction\" (or, more commonly, \"inspirational lit\" or \"inspi-lit\") is sometimes used as another term for \"misery lit, a term \"that describes a genre of biographical literature mostly concerned with the protagonist's triumph over personal trauma or abuse, often during childhood.\" While this genre is growing in popularity, it is also controversial. Some authors have said they write in order to come to terms with their traumatic memories, and to help readers do the same. Supporters of the genre also claim the genre's popularity indicates a growing cultural willingness to directly confront topics—specifically child sexual abuse—that once would have been ignored or swept under the rug. However, critics locate the genre's popular appeal in its combination of moral outrage and titillation.\n\nSome writers, including psychotherapist and author, Michael Gurrian, are promoting the term, \"visionary fiction,\" for some inspirational fiction. Gurian, who has written non-fiction works of psychology and parenting in addition to science-fiction, includes his own book, \"The Miracle: A Visionary Novel,\" in this genre. Possibly a subgenre of \"inspirational fiction,\" he adds to the definition of growth and the overcoming of obstacles the fact that this genre is \"fiction in which the expansion of the human mind drives the plot.\"\n\nSome well-known books, like \"Golf in the Kingdom\", by Michael Murphy, \"defied categorization\" when it was first published in 1971, described as \"an altogether unique confluence of fiction, philosophy, myth, mysticism, enchantment, and golf instruction.\" It is possible that this novel could now be included in the subgenre, \"visionary fiction,\" and the larger genre, \"inspirational fiction.\" \n\nAnother category that is sometimes associated with \"inspirational fiction\" is \"gentle fiction.\" Although by no means can all inspirational fiction titles be considered in this category, the majority of \"Christian inspirational fiction\" or \"faith-based inspirational fiction\" might at one time have fit. However, as one library instructor puts it, \"In the last two decades the genre has expanded beyond the gentle read to follow the reading interests of the general public,\" to include titles that might be called \"edgy inspirational fiction.\"\n\nThis genre is often used to identify works categorized by a lack of profanity and portrayal of explicit sex. However, like other genres linked to \"inspirational fiction,\" precise definitions of this category vary as well. One used bookstore list begins with the explanation:\nBy this category, we mean those lovely little books that tells stories of characters wrestling with life's ordinary problems, rather than global ones. Our customers like them because they don't aim to shock you, just to lull you into a good, thoughtful read.\n\nSometimes books in this category are referred to as \"gentle reads,\" and again definitions vary, but often are close to this public library description:\nWith charm and humor, these novels explore the everyday joys, frustrations, and sorrows of lives quietly led. They typically revolve around the activities of a small community of people, such as a small town, a church, or a gathering of friends. The realities of sex, violence, and other passions are downplayed and are never presented in a graphic manner. Although the genre was once largely dominated by British authors, American authors in the vein of Jan Karon are now extremely popular.\n\nIt may be easier to classify a book as inspirational fiction based on the goal of the writer (and, of course, the plot of the book), rather than the effect on the reader, since personal choice, taste, and even personal beliefs are factors that affect the way a book can \"inspire\" a reader.\n\nAt least one study has revealed that gender may also be a factor in a reader's reaction to inspirational literature. In a 2006 study of inspirational literature that men considered to have affected their lives (following a similar study regarding women), Professor Lisa Jardine found that \"a substantial number of men were immediately able to identify their most inspirational novel. Women, in general found it more difficult with many ultimately choosing a shortlist rather than one single book.\" \"The men we interviewed had a tendency towards identifying themselves with angst-ridden books showing intellectual struggle, violence, personal vulnerability, catastrophe and the struggle to rise above circumstance.\" The books most frequently cited by men in this study included \"The Outsider\" by Albert Camus, \"The Lord of The Rings\" by J.R.R. Tolkien, \"The Catcher in the Rye\" by J.D. Salinger, and—the only book written by a female that made the list of \"top twenty\" inspirational books for men -- \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" by Harper Lee. \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" was also only one of four books to be included in the top twenty list for both men and women.\n\nSome object to the category of inspirational fiction, based on the idea that a book that is \"inspirational\" to one reader may not be inspirational to another, and therefore the category is too subjective to be used in an appropriate way. On the other side of the question, it is argued that the category is useful even if it is not completely objective, and there are some authors whose works are written for the specific purposes that would be included in such a categorization.\n\n"}
{"id": "1126613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1126613", "title": "Jadun", "text": "Jadun\n\nThe Jadoon, also called Jadun or Gadun (Pashto: جاډون‎, Urdu: جدون‎, Hebrew: ג'אדון), are a Pashtun tribe. Jadoon's originated in the mountainous regions of Spin Ghar, in the Nangahar Province of Afghanistan. \n\nThe Jadoons are also mentioned by Lawrence Ziring, professor of Political Science at West Michigan University, as being one of the tribal units divided in the mountain ranges of Hazara and Swabi, alongside the Yusufzais of Malakand Agency, the Afridis of the Khyber Agency and Kohat Pass, the Orakzais of Tirah, the Wazirs of North & Southern Waziristan, the Shiranis of D.I.Khan and the Shinwaris of the Khyber.\n\nJadoons are divided into two major sub tribes; Salar and Mansoor.\n"}
{"id": "55206916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55206916", "title": "Joseph R. Kozenczak", "text": "Joseph R. Kozenczak\n\nJoseph R. Kozenczak was the former Chief of Police of Des Plaines, Illinois where he worked for 27 years. He is recognized for his role of Chief Investigator of the John Wayne Gacy Serial Murder Investigation in 1978. In June 1981, Kozenczak joined the FBI Academy. He would regularly participate in lectures; often delivered to students of criminology. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "50910263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50910263", "title": "La Corporación", "text": "La Corporación\n\nLa Corporación (\"The Corporation\"), also known as the \"Santa Ana Cartel\", was a Bolivian drug cartel and criminal organization, headed in the 1970s and 1980s by notorious drug lord Roberto Suárez Goméz, known as the \"King of Cocaine\".\n\n\"La Corporación\" was founded in the 1970s by several drug traffickers and transnational criminals. After the 1980 coup d'état, \"La Corporación\" received political protection from the Bolivian military dictatorship, effectively making Bolivia a narco-state, and became one of the largest cocaine producers in the world. They were allied with several Mexican and Colombian drug cartels and had a notable presence in Santa Cruz de la Sierra.\n\nIn the 1970s, Suárez created \"La Corporación\" and began hiring various Bolivian coca producers, becoming one of the largest cocaine producers in the country. Because of the relationship with Suárez and Pablo Escobar, \"La Corporación\" became a major supplier to the Medellín Cartel. Drugs were smuggled from the cocaine labs in the Bolivian Amazon to Colombia, selling at $9,000 per kilo.\n\nOn July 17, 1980, a coup d'état overthrew President Lidia Gueiler Tejada, replaced by her cousin Luis García Meza Tejada. The event became known as the \"Cocaine Coup\" because it was reportedly backed by criminals and drug traffickers, including Suárez and other members of \"La Corporación\". Shortly after the coup, drug traffickers received political protection and cocaine production dramatically increased in Bolivia. According to members of the Reagan administration, the cartel was making an annual income of more than $400 million and was backed by several right-wing death squads. Ex-DEA agent Michael Levine once accused the CIA of facilitating multiple Latin American drug cartels, most notably \"La Corporación\".\n\nAfter Suárez's arrest in 1988, \"La Corporación\" was headed by his nephew Jorge Roca Suarez, who continued to smuggle drugs into the United States and began a major drug-trafficking operation in Southern California until his arrest in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "24885892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24885892", "title": "Lawangan language", "text": "Lawangan language\n\nLawangan is an Austronesian language of the East Barito group. It is spoken by about 100,000 Lawangan people (one of the Dayak peoples) living in the central Kalimantan, Indonesia. Lawangan has a high degree of dialectal diversity.\n"}
{"id": "14062487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14062487", "title": "Mal people", "text": "Mal people\n\nThe Mal are an ethnic group native to Laos and Thailand. They are one of two sub-groups of the Lua people (the other one being the Phai).\n\nThe Mal are also commonly referred to as Madl, Khatin, T'in, Htin, Thin, and Tin.\n\nThe Mal speak a language also called Mal, which is a Khmuic language. The Khmuic languages are Austroasiatic. There is some debate as to whether the Khmuic languages are of the Mon–Khmer branch, but the majority opinion is that they are not.\n\n\nThe Mal largely practice traditional folk religion involving ancestor worship.\n\nMal Indian People\n\n"}
{"id": "36467438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36467438", "title": "Mir Gwahram Khan Lashari", "text": "Mir Gwahram Khan Lashari\n\nMir Gwahram Khan Lashari also (Mir Govahram Khan Lashari, Mir Gwaharam Khan Lashari or Mir Gohram Khan Lashari) was a Baloch chieftain in the 15th century. He was considered as a hero of the Lashari Baloch's, he also played a prominent part in Baloch history.\n\nMir Gwahram and Mir Chakar Rind, head of the Rind Baloch tribe, went to war that resulted in thousands dead, including Mir Chakar's brother. The war and the gallantry of the two tribal leaders continues to be a part of the Baloch peoples' history.\n\nUnder their pressure, the Lasharis and the Rinds disengaged themselves, the Lasharis going to Thatta and thence to Gujarat and Mir Chakar Rind taking his people to the Multan region.\n"}
{"id": "42766276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42766276", "title": "Mister Saturday Night", "text": "Mister Saturday Night\n\nMister Saturday Night is a recurring party based in Brooklyn, NY. It is organized and DJed by Eamon Harkin and Justin Carter. The duo run an associated daytime, Sunday afternoon party called Mister Sunday. They have been referred to as \"one of the city’s most accomplished DJ duos\" by The Guardian. The party started in Santos Party House, a traditional Manhattan club, in early 2009, but left the club in May of that year and began hosting its events in non-traditional venues such as 12-turn-13.\nMister Saturday Night offers an alternative nightlife experience that is \"just as interested in constructing an engaging journey as they are in dropping good tunes.\" The party gives back to the community, announcing an initiative to donate ten percent of its annual net profits in 2014 to the Robin Hood Foundation, a poverty-fighting organization in New York.\n\nMister Saturday Night Records is the independent record label associated with Mister Saturday Night. It was founded by Justin Carter and Eamon Harkin in 2012. The label started as a home for the artists that were regulars at the party, but it has featured artists from outside of New York as well. The first eleven releases were hand-stamped, vinyl-only EPs, and it is releasing a full-length album on featuring all the artists from the label on June 23. Mister Saturday Night Records was voted Label to watch in 2014 by FACT Magazine.\n\n\nEamon was born in Northern Ireland and moved to New York in 2004. He then created ‘Calling All Kids’, a party which played homage to New York legend Arthur Russell and the history of downtown New York. He hosted a residency at FUN, at the now-gone Brooklyn club, Studio B. There he led the bookings and production and brought a variety of talent to the venue. He now produces Mister Saturday Night and Mister Sunday and DJs with his partner Justin Carter. \nAs a producer, Eamon has released edits, remixes and original productions, on his own and with former partner Steve Raney (as Harkin and Raney).\n\nJustin moved from North Carolina to New York in 1999. In 2004 he started DJing and producing secret parties at Asterisk, a pioneering DIY venue in Bushwick that led the way for many other living-spaces-turned-party-places and carved a new path for underground parties in Brooklyn. That year he also became a member of the Nublu family, where he launched the club’s record label and performed and DJed regularly. Justin has sung in the chorus of avant-garde composer Butch Morris and co-written and is currently working on an album of solo material.\n\n"}
{"id": "2157327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2157327", "title": "Motu people", "text": "Motu people\n\nThe Motu are native inhabitants of Papua New Guinea, living along the southern coastal area of the country. Their indigenous language is also known as Motu, and like several other languages of the region is an Austronesian language. They and the Koitabu people are the original inhabitants and owners of the land on which Port Moresby — the national capital city — stands. The largest Motu village is Hanuabada, northwest of Port Moresby.\n\nFriedrich Ratzel in \"The History of Mankind\" reported in 1896 on tattooing in Melanesia. Among the relatively light-skinned Motu he found tattooing in patterns similar to those of Micronesia. He also reported, among the old women, blackening the body with a kind of earth which gives a lustre like black lead. This was said to be a sign of mourning.\n\nCharles Gabriel Seligman came into contact with the Motu, in 1904. He noted that, unlike many of their neighbors in the region, the Motu did not practice exogamy. Every year, they practiced the \"hiri\", when community members made trading voyages through the Gulf of Papua. Women made pottery for sale through the \"hiri\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17935726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17935726", "title": "Nakukymppi", "text": "Nakukymppi\n\nNakukymppi is a nude sport event in Finland, held in the municipality of Padasjoki one week before Midsummer every year.\n\nThe idea is to run or walk 10 kilometres naked. Participants wear only shoes, socks and headwear. Women wear a top if their breasts are shaking too much. It has been held annually since 2003. It usually draws about 100 to 150 participants, of which one-tenth to one-fifth are women. Even though the event isn't organised by naturists and not only for naturists, half of the participants are naturists.\n\nThe event is organized by Mr. Aarne Heino together with local village community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13337084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13337084", "title": "Nanomesh", "text": "Nanomesh\n\nThe nanomesh is a new inorganic nanostructured two-dimensional material, similar to graphene. It was discovered in 2003 at the University of Zurich, Switzerland\n\nIt consists of a single layer of boron (B) and nitrogen (N) atoms, which forms by self-assembly into a highly regular mesh after high-temperature exposure of a clean rhodium or ruthenium surface to borazine under ultra-high vacuum.\n\nThe nanomesh looks like an assembly of hexagonal pores (see right image) at the nanometer (nm) scale. The distance between two pore centers is only 3.2 nm, whereas each pore has a diameter of about 2 nm and is 0.05 nm deep. The lowest regions bind strongly to the underlying metal, while the wires (highest regions) are only bound to the surface through strong cohesive forces within the layer itself.\n\nThe boron nitride nanomesh is not only stable under vacuum, air and some liquids, but also up to temperatures of 796C (1070 K). In addition it shows the extraordinary ability to trap molecules and metallic clusters, which have similar sizes to the nanomesh pores, forming a well-ordered array. These characteristics promise interesting applications of the nanomesh in areas like nanocatalysis, surface functionalisation, spintronics, quantum computing and data storage media like hard drives.\n\nh-BN nanomesh is a single sheet of hexagonal boron nitride, which forms on substrates like rhodium Rh(111) or ruthenium Ru(0001) crystals by a self-assembly process.\n\nThe unit cell of the h-BN nanomesh consists of 13x13 BN or 12x12 Rh atoms with a lattice constant of 3.2 nm. In a cross-section it means that 13 boron or nitrogen atoms are sitting on 12 rhodium atoms. This implies a modification of the relative positions of each BN towards the substrate atoms within a unit cell, where some bonds are more attractive or repulsive than other (site selective bonding), what induces the corrugation of the nanomesh (see right image with pores and wires).\nThe nanomesh corrugation amplitude of 0.05 nm causes a strong effect on the electronic structure, where two distinct BN regions are observed. They are easily recognized in the lower right image, which is a scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) measurement, as well as in the lower left image representing a theoretical calculation of the same area. A strongly bounded region assigned to the pores is visible in blue in the left image below (center of bright rings in the right image) and a weakly bound region assigned to the wires appears yellow-red in the left image below (area in-between rings in the right image). \nSee for more details.\n\nThe nanomesh is stable under a wide range of environments like air, water and electrolytes among others. It is also temperature resistant since it does not decompose in temperatures up to 1275K under a vacuum. In addition to these exceptional stabilities, the nanomesh shows the extraordinary ability to act as a scaffold for metallic nanoclusters and to trap molecules forming a well-ordered array.\n\nIn the case of gold (Au), its evaporation on the nanomesh leads to formation of well-defined round Au nanoparticles, which are centered at the nanomesh pores.\n\nThe STM figure on the right shows Naphthalocyanine (Nc) molecules, which were vapor-deposited onto the nanomesh. These planar molecules have a diameter of about 2 nm, whose size is comparable to that of the nanomesh pores (see upper inset). It is spectacularly visible how the molecules form a well-ordered array with the periodicity of the nanomesh (3.22 nm). The lower inset shows a region of this substrate with higher resolution, where individual molecules are trapped inside the pores. In addition, the molecules seem to keep their native conformation, what means that their functionality is kept, which is nowadays a challenge in nanoscience.\n\nSuch systems with wide spacing between individual molecules/clusters and negligible intermolecular interactions might be interesting for applications such as molecular electronics and memory elements, in photochemistry or in optical devices.\n\nSee for more detailed information.\n\nWell-ordered nanomeshes are grown by thermal decomposition of borazine (HBNH), a colorless substance that is liquid at room temperature. The nanomesh results after exposing the atomically clean Rh(111) or Ru(0001) surface to borazine by chemical vapor deposition (CVD).\n\nThe substrate is kept at a temperature of 796 °C (1070 K) when borazine is introduced in the vacuum chamber at a dose of about 40 L (1 Langmuir = 10 torr sec). A typical borazine vapor pressure inside the ultrahigh vacuum chamber during the exposure is 3x10 mbar.\n\nAfter cooling down to room temperature, the regular mesh structure is observed using different experimental techniques. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) gives a direct look on the local real space structure of the nanomesh, while low energy electron diffraction (LEED) gives information about the surface structures ordered over the whole sample. Ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) gives information about the electronic states in the outermost atomic layers of a sample, i.e. electronic information of the top substrate layers and the nanomesh.\nCVD of borazine on other substrates has not led so far to the formation of a corrugated nanomesh. A flat BN layer is observed on nickel and palladium, whereas stripped structures appear on molybdenum instead.\n\nhttp://www.nanomesh.ch\n\nhttp://www.nanomesh.org\n"}
{"id": "33213720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33213720", "title": "Nateni language", "text": "Nateni language\n\nNateni (Natemba) is a language of the Gurma people spoken in Benin. It is named after its principal dialect; the others are Tayari (Tayaba), Kunteni (Kuntemba), Okoni (Okoma).\n"}
{"id": "53322465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53322465", "title": "Nemesio Oseguera Cervantes", "text": "Nemesio Oseguera Cervantes\n\nNemesio Oseguera Cervantes (; born 17 July 1966), commonly referred to by his alias El Mencho (), is a Mexican suspected drug lord and leader of the Jalisco New Generation Cartel (CJNG), a criminal group based in Jalisco. He is the most-wanted criminal in Mexico and one of the most-wanted in the U.S. Both governments are offering up to MXN$30 million and US$10 million, respectively, for information that leads to his arrest. He is wanted for drug trafficking, organized crime involvement, and illegal possession of firearms. El Mencho is reportedly responsible for coordinating drug trafficking operations in the Americas, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Oceania. Under his command, the CJNG became one of Mexico's leading criminal organizations.\n\nBorn into poverty in Mexico, El Mencho grew avocados and dropped out of primary school before immigrating illegally to the U.S. in the 1980s. After being arrested several times, he was deported to Mexico in the early 1990s and worked for the Milenio Cartel. He eventually climbed to the top of the criminal organization and founded the CJNG after several of his bosses were arrested or killed. His notoriety was also a result of his aggressive leadership and sensationalist acts of violence against both rival criminal groups and Mexican security forces alike. These attacks brought him increased government attention and an extensive manhunt. Security forces suspect he is hiding in the rural terrains of Jalisco, Michoacán, Nayarit, and/or Colima, and is guarded by mercenaries with former military training.\n\nNemesio Oseguera Cervantes was born on 17 July 1966 in the rural community of Naranjo de Chila in Aguililla, Michoacán, Mexico. His first name is cited as \"Rubén\" and/or \"Nemesio\". He has alternative aliases like \"Nemecio\", \"Rubén Acerguera Cervantes\", \"Lorenzo Mendoza\", and \"Nemesio Oseguera Ramos\". Some sources state that his birth-given name was Rubén but that he changed it to Nemesio in memory of his godfather. However, he is widely known by his alias \"El Mencho\", a nickname that derives from the phonetic derivation of Nemesio.\n\nEl Mencho grew up in a poor family that cultivated avocados. He had five brothers: Juan, Miguel, Antonio, Marín, and Abraham. He dropped out of primary school in 5th grade to work in the fields. At the age of 14, however, he started guarding marijuana plantations. A few years later, he decided he wanted a better life for himself and immigrated illegally to the U.S. state of California in the 1980s. To conceal his identity in the U.S., he used a different names and combinations, like \"Rubén Ávila\", \"José López Prieto\", \"Miguel Valadez\", \"Carlos Hernández Mendoza\", \"Roberto Salgado\", among others. \n\nIn 1986, he lived in the San Francisco Bay Area. He was arrested by the San Francisco Police at the age of 19 for stolen property and carrying a loaded gun. Two months after his arrest, his first child was born. According to border entry records, El Mencho crossed the U.S.-Mexico border several times during the late 1980s under other aliases. The DEA and Mexican investigators believe that it was during this time that he became involved in meth production and trade in California's Central Valley alongside his brother-in-law Abigael González Valencia (alias \"El Cuini\").\n\nIn 1989, El Mencho was arrested again in San Francisco for selling narcotics. He was deported to Mexico several months later, but re-entered the U.S. and resettled in San Francisco. In September 1992, he was arrested again, this time on federal drug charges in Sacramento, California. According to court records, El Mencho and his brother Abraham were at a San Francisco bar known as Imperial to carry out a heroin deal: five ounces for US$9,500. Abraham was in charge of the transaction, while El Mencho acted as a lookout. El Mencho was 26-years-old at that time and much younger than Abraham, but he was savvy enough to recognize that the transaction was a set-up by the police. He told his brother that the men who they gave the heroin to handed them perfectly stashed dollar bills instead of giving them loose ones. Through a wiretap conversation, the police overheard El Mencho warning his brother to never do business with them again since they were undercover cops.\n\nThree weeks after the incident, however, both of them were arrested by the police. Once in court, El Mencho insisted that he was innocent. He said he was not involved in the heroin deal and that the undercover agents were lying about him handling the drugs. The prosecution insisted that both siblings were working together. El Mencho was left with few options; if he pleaded not guilty, his brother Abraham—who already had felony drug sentences in his record—would probably face life in prison. His defense understood that if he decided on a jury trial, they would likely win the case. However, he decided to plea guilty and protect his brother from life imprisonment. He was sentenced to 5 years and imprisoned at the Big Spring Correctional Center in Texas, which houses a large population of illegal immigrants.\n\nAfter three years, he was released from prison on parole and deported to Mexico at the age of 30. Once in Mexico, he joined the local police forces of Cabo Corrientes and Tomatlán in the state of Jalisco. Within some time, however, he left the police and joined organized crime as a full-time member of the Milenio Cartel. To strengthen his relationship with the Milenio Cartel, El Mencho married one of the clan leader's sisters, Rosalinda González Valencia. It was in this criminal group where El Mencho would become a leading figure in organized crime.\n\nIn the Milenio Cartel, El Mencho started as a member of the assassin squad that protected the drug lord Armando Valencia Cornelio (alias \"El Maradona\"). On 12 August 2003, his boss was arrested by Mexican authorities. Around the same time, a rival criminal group known as Los Zetas, with the backing of the Gulf Cartel, carried out an armed offensive against the Milenio Cartel in Michoacán. The attack forced the Valencia family to exile in Jalisco; El Mencho relocated in the state capital, Guadalajara, with his father-in-law José Luis González Valencia (alias \"El Quini\") and Román Caballero Valencia. In Jalisco, El Mencho and the Milenio Cartel formed an alliance with the Sinaloa Cartel subgroup headed by Ignacio \"Nacho\" Coronel, a high-ranking drug lord and ally of Joaquín \"El Chapo\" Guzmán. Under Coronel, El Mencho and his group managed the Sinaloa Cartel's drug operations, finances, and murder activities in the states of Colima and Jalisco.\n\nOn 28 October 2009, however, the Milenio Cartel's top leader Óscar Orlando Nava Valencia (alias \"El Lobo\") was arrested. The following year on 6 May 2010, his brother Juan Carlos (alias \"El Tigre\") was arrested too. Two months later, Coronel was killed in a shootout with the Mexican Army. Following their downfalls, the Milenio Cartel began to rupture and El Mencho tried to take over its leadership structure. One sect within the Milenio Cartel wanted to appoint Elpidio Mojarro Ramírez (alias \"El Pilo\"), who worked closely with Óscar Orlando and Juan Carlos before their arrest, as the leader of the group. Érick Valencia Salazar, one of the clan members, however, wanted El Mencho to take command. El Mencho then asked the other Milenio bloc to hand over Gerardo Mendoza (alias \"Tecato\" and/or \"Cochi\") for killing a group of men that reported to him in Tecomán, Colima. The other division refused El Mencho' request, prompting an internal war.\n\nThe Milenio Cartel's divisions split into two. One side was known as La Resistencia; the other was Los Torcidos, headed by El Mencho. La Resistencia accused Los Torcidos of turning in Óscar Orlando to the authorities. A war ensued, and the two groups fought for the drug smuggling turfs in Jalisco. To legitimize its presence, El Mencho' group launched a propaganda campaign against its enemies, denouncing extortions done by rival gangs against civilians, businessmen, and government authorities. Los Torcidos eventually won the war and consolidated their influence in western Mexico. The group then changed its name to the Jalisco New Generation Cartel (Spanish: Cártel de Jalisco Nueva Generación, or CJNG).\n\nAs leader of the CJNG, El Mencho solidified his position and grew his organization through territorial expansion and by corrupting government officials. The CJNG went from being a small, offshoot criminal gang to one of the leading criminal groups in Mexico. Throughout the process, El Mencho established himself as one of Mexico's most-wanted criminals. His rise to fame is due to a number of factors, including the aggressive and sensationalist displays of public violence by the CJNG. The direct attacks of the CJNG against Mexico's security forces earned El Mencho a reputation among authorities as \"principal enemy\" of the state and as a dangerous criminal. In addition, the fall of Mexico's former top crime bosses cleared the way for El Mencho to gain visibility and status.\n\nHe consolidated his operations in Jalisco and its adjacent states by fighting off incursions from criminal groups like Los Zetas and the Knights Templar Cartel. According to government sources, he is responsible for overseeing the CJNG's entire drug trafficking operations in the states of Jalisco, Colima, and Guanajuato, where he created a bastion for methamphetamine production and trade. Their operational capacity in Mexico is concentrated in 8 states: Jalisco, Colima, Guanajuato, Nayarit, and Veracruz, where it holds a firm grip of drug trafficking operations, and Morelos, Guerrero and Michoacán, where it fights competing rival drug groups. Between 2014 and 2016, the only region in the country where the CJNG lost its territorial presence was in Mexico City. Internationally, the CJNG reportedly has ties with criminal groups in the U.S., Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Africa. On an international scale, the CJNG is mainly focused on trafficking cocaine and methamphetamine.\n\nEl Mencho was able to make the CJNG one of Mexico's most profitable criminal gangs. The government estimates that El Mencho's group has about US$50 billion in total assets. This success was shared with Abigael González Valencia, his brother-in-law, who headed a drug trafficking group known as Los Cuinis, allied to the CJNG. Abigael was arrested by the Mexican Navy on 28 February 2015. Part of El Mencho' success in the drug trade had to do with his ability to strategize market and consumer changes. Initially, the CJNG produced methamphetamine, but then he moved to heroin production when the consumer demand changed.\n\nOn 25 August 2012, a unit of the Mexican Federal Police based in Tonaya, Jalisco, responded to an anonymous tip stating that there was an organized crime cell present in a rural community close by. When the security forces got to the area, a shootout broke out between the two parties. 6 CJNG gunmen were killed in the firefight. Initial reports stated that El Mencho was captured in the operation, but the Mexican government later confirmed that he was not in custody. In a series of highly coordinated tactics to prevent El Mencho' arrest, the CJNG blocked several highways and roads across the Guadalajara Metropolitan Area by setting at least 37 vehicles on fire. The purpose of the burning vehicles was to place them as blockades to impede the security forces from traveling across Jalisco's capital and giving El Mencho' ample time to escape. The blockades were placed in strategic routes to prevent police reinforcements to come in or leave Guadalajara. After the attacks were over, the government confirmed that El Mencho was in the area and had evaded capture.\n\nOn 19 March 2015, in Ocotlán, Jalisco, CJNG gunmen ambushed a Federal Police convoy. The total death toll was 11; five police officers, three civilians, and three CJNG gunmen. The attack was a response by the CJNG to protect El Mencho, who was reportedly in the area for a meeting. On 23 March, Heriberto Acevedo Cárdenas (alias \"El Gringo\" and \"El Güero\"), one of El Mencho' close associates, was killed in a shootout with the Federal Police in Zacoalco de Torres, Jalisco. Three other CJNG suspects were killed. According to government sources, Acevedo Cárdenas directed CJNG cells in Zacoalco, Tlajomulco, Cocula, Tapalpa and Atemajac de Brizuela, Jalisco. In response to his death, El Mencho commanded the CJNG to carry out attacks against the Mexican Federal Police. On 30 March, CJNG gunmen in Zapopan, Jalisco, ambushed a convoy where Alejandro Solorio Aréchiga, Jalisco's security commissioner, was travelling in. No one was killed in the fire exchange. On 6 April, CJNG gunmen blocked a road in San Sebastián del Oeste, Jalisco, with a burning vehicle and opened fire at a convoy of the Federal Police, killing 15 policemen and wounding 5 more. The incident was the deadliest single-attack on the Mexico's police force since 2010. That same day, Miguel Ángel Caicedo Vargas, the police chief of Zacoalco de Torres, was killed by CJNG hitmen.\n\nA month later on 1 May 2015, the Mexican government launched Operation Jalisco, a military-led campaign that intended to combat organized crime groups in Jalisco and capture their respective leaders. The announcement came after a series of violent attacks from the CJNG in previous weeks. The day the operation was inaugurated, however, intelligence reports stated that El Mencho was in Tonaya, which prompted an offensive to apprehend him. As the security forces moved to the area where El Mencho was allegedly hiding, a gunfight broke out between law enforcement officials and gunmen of the CJNG. In the small town of Villa Purificación, Jalisco, El Mencho' men shot down a Mexican Army helicopter with a rocket-propelled grenade (RPG) launcher, killing 9 soldiers. The battle extended throughout several municipalities in Jalisco; El Mencho' men blockaded several roads across the Guadalajara area to slow down the mobilization of law enforcement and facilitate their leader's escape. The CJNG set 39 buses, 11 banks, and 16 gas stations on fire. The attack spread through 20 different towns and in three neighboring states.\n\nAccording to the Mexican government, El Mencho may be hiding in the state of Jalisco, the CJNG's stronghold. However, they believe he does not stay in one place for too long, and travels across several municipalities in Jalisco and into the states of Michoacán, Colima, and Nayarit. He usually travels across the mountains and rural terrains in these areas since it provides multiple escape routes in the event that security forces attempt to encircle him. Authorities suspect El Mencho's inner circle is made up of mercenaries with former military training. His second security circle is much larger in size and serves as a rearguard to notify El Mencho's inner circle of suspicious activity and ambush potential parties that attempt to get close to him.\n\nSince the 2000s, the DEA office in Los Angeles, California, tracked El Mencho' activities and detected that the CJNG had expanded its drug trafficking operations internationally. In 2000, the U.S. government discovered that El Mencho was involved in a cocaine and methamphetamine operation internationally. Five years later, they discovered he had used firearms to facilitate his operations. In 2007, the DEA discovered that El Mencho was involved in a cocaine operation that went through Colombia, Guatemala, Mexico, and ended in the U.S. They also uncovered a second cocaine shipment from Colombia, Mexico, to the U.S. In 2009, DEA detected that El Mencho was involved in another cocaine shipment originating from Ecuador. Two more shipments were then detected in 2013 from Mexico then the U.S. In 2014, however, the DEA noticed a radical shift in the CJNG's modus operandi; El Mencho' was discovered to have coordinated a methamphetamine shipment that went from Mexico to Australia then to the U.S by leveraging China-based gangs.\n\nOn 27 September 2011, Mexico's Office of the General Prosecutor (PGR) issued an arrest warrant for El Mencho and offered MXN$2 million for anyone who can help provide information that leads to his arrest. He was accused of organized crime involvement and illegal possession of firearms. In March 2014, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, based on the previous investigations by the DEA, indicted El Mencho for several charges, including drug trafficking and for being leaders of a \"Continuing Criminal Enterprise\". El Mencho and Abigael were accused of coordinating shipments of cocaine and methamphetamine from South America via Mexico to the U.S. They also stated that the CJNG and Los Cuinis coordinated the collection and delivery of the drug proceeds from the U.S. to Mexico. In addition, the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas is looking to convict El Mencho for drug trafficking offenses.\n\nOn 18 December 2017, seventeen year-old YouTuber star Juan Luis Lagunas Rosales, known as \"El Pirata de Culiacán\" (English: The Pirate from Culiacán), was gunned down in a bar in Jalisco by a group of four men armed with rifles, shortly after Lagunas Rosales published videotaped insults towards El Mencho. Police are investigating if El Mencho gave the order to execute him, but no charges have been filed.\n\nOn 15 August 2018, the PGR announced they were offering up to MXN$30 million to anyone who provides information that leads to El Mencho's capture. This announcement was made public when the DEA and Mexican authorities prepared to reveal a new cooperation plan against organized crime, which included a stronger focus against their financial structure and the creation of a law enforcement group responsible for investigating international cases. The bounty derives from a new arrest warrant issued against him for his alleged participation in masterminding the kidnapping and murder of two agents of the Criminal Investigation Agency (AIC), a branch of the PGR, in February 2018.\n\nOn 16 October 2018, the United States Department of State, Justice, and Treasury announced a joint law enforcement measure against the CJNG, and increased El Mencho's bounty to US$10 million from US$5 million. This increase was one of the largest ones approved in the history of the Narcotics Rewards Program.\n\nOn 8 April 2015, the United States Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) sanctioned El Mencho under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (\"Kingpin Act\") for his involvement in international drug smuggling operations. The sanction was joint investigation conducted by the Treasury and the DEA office in Los Angeles as part of a larger effort with their Mexican counterparts to sanction drug trafficking groups in Mexico. The sanction extended to the CJNG, his brother-in-law Abigael González Valencia, and Los Cuinis. As part of the sanction, all the U.S.-based assets and/or assets in control of U.S. individuals on behalf of El Mencho, González Valencia, the CJNG, and Los Cuinis, were frozen in the U.S. In addition, the act prohibited U.S. citizens from engaging in business activities with them.\n\nOn 17 September 2015, the OFAC sanctioned five businesses in Jalisco for financially supporting the CJNG and El Mencho' operations. This sanction was a result of another investigation done by the Treasury and the DEA office in Los Angeles. All the U.S.-based assets of these businesses were frozen, and U.S. citizens were prohibited from doing business with them. The businesses were a sushi restaurant in Puerto Vallarta and Guadalajara, a tequila company in Guadalajara, a rental cabin business in Tapalpa, and an advertising firm and agricultural company, both in Guadalajara. According to the report, the diversity of these businesses showed that the CJNG was successful at penetrating the economy.\n\nOn 27 October 2016, the OFAC sanctioned nine more individuals for providing material and financial assistance to El Mencho and González Valencia and their respective groups, the CJNG and Los Cuinis. This sanction was also result of another investigation done by the Treasury and the DEA office in Los Angeles. This sanction was an attempt by the U.S. government to disrupt the inner circle of complicit family members within the CJNG and Los Cuinis and affect their finances in Mexico's domestic economy. The individuals sanctioned were El Mencho' brother Antonio; his son-in-law Julio Alberto Castillo Rodríguez; five of González Valencia's siblings: Arnulfo, Édgar Edén, Elvis, Marisa Ivette, and Noemí; businessman Fabián Felipe Vera López; and attorney María Teresa Quintana Navarro. All their U.S.-based assets were frozen, and U.S. citizens were prohibited from doing business with them.\n\nEl Mencho has five brothers: Juan, Miguel, Antonio, Marín and Abraham. In the 1990s, Abraham in California was given a 10-year sentence. In 2013, Mexican authorities accused him of murder in Michoacán. The charges were later dropped and the case was closed. Marín was accused in a California court, but the charges are not available to the public. Antonio lived in the U.S. and was released from a Mississippi prison in 2001 after completing his sentence for property damage charges. He was arrested in Jalisco on 4 December 2015, by the Mexican Army and Navy for working as one of El Mencho' top financial operators. According to the Mexican government, Juan and Miguel are involved with the CJNG. Juan was charged in Michoacán for burglary, but the case was later dismissed.\n\nRosalinda González Valencia is the wife of El Mencho. They have three children: Jessica Johana, Laisha, and Rubén Oseguera González (alias \"El Menchito). Jessica Johana is married to Julio Alberto Castillo Rodríguez (alias \"El Ojo de Vidrio\"), first arrested on 1 May 2015. He was released on 1 July for lack of evidence, but was re-arrested again on 6 April 2016, for his involvement in the CJNG. El Mencho's son Rubén was regarded by the Mexican government as the second-in-command in the CJNG prior to his arrest in 2014. He was released from prison on several occasions for lack of evidence, but was re-arrested each time by the police for additional charges.\n\nIn addition, Mexican authorities suspected in 2016 that Omar Eleazar Oseguera Cervantes was part of the CJNG leadership structure. Though he has identical last names as El Mencho, he was listed as his son-in-law and not as one of his brothers. He reportedly works as one of his top security chiefs.\n\n\nFootnotes\nReferences\n\n"}
{"id": "33550822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33550822", "title": "Nyaneka language", "text": "Nyaneka language\n\nNyaneka is a Bantu language of Angola. The Ngambwe \"dialect\" is now considered a distinct language.\n"}
{"id": "16855350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16855350", "title": "PBOC Motorsports Club", "text": "PBOC Motorsports Club\n\nPBOC Motorsports Club is a membership organization dedicated to racing and drivers education. PBOC Races are open to Porsche, BMW, Mercedes, Audi, Ferrari's, Legends & others. PBOC also offers high performance drivers' schools, charity race events, club races, & other events.\n\nPBOC was founded in 2004 as a venue for amateur road racing and high-performance driver's education. The emphasis is on safe driving and fun events. The club holds 10 events a year in the southeast including Sebring International Raceway, Homestead-Miami Speedway, Daytona International Speedway, Barber Motorsports Park, and Road Atlanta.\n\nEach event is typically a 2 or 3 day weekend, which includes:\n\nThere is normally a 90-minute enduro with a mandatory 5 minute pit stop, with Sunday featuring 2 30 minute sprint races. No one “owns” the corner at PBOC and contact is strongly discouraged. The rules do allow for racing incidents.\n\nAnyone can bring their street car (except SUV’s, pick up trucks, and certain convertibles) and drive it on the track. The school includes 2 hours on autocross exercises, classroom instruction, and time on the track with an instructor in the passenger seat. In the school groups, there is passing on the straights with a point by from the car being passed. In the Solo/Instructor run group, there is passing anywhere on the track with a point by. There is also a Super Solo group where passing is allowed anywhere with or without a point by.\n\nWhere track layout allows, each weekend includes an autocross. Novices spend 2 hours on the autocross learning over steer, under steer and threshold braking.\n\nAt the annual 5 day Winterfest event at Sebring International Raceway, a 1/8 mile drag race is run on Saturday night. Cars, tow vehicles, 4 wheelers, and just about anything else is allowed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1211492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1211492", "title": "Rai stones", "text": "Rai stones\n\nThe Micronesian island of Yap is known for its stone money, known as Rai, or Fei: large doughnut-shaped, carved disks of (usually) calcite, up to 4 m (12 ft) in diameter (most are much smaller). The smallest can be as little as in diameter.\nRai, or stone money (), are more than 6,000 large, circular stone disks carved out of limestone formed from aragonite and calcite crystals. Rai stones were quarried on several of the Micronesian islands, mainly Palau, but briefly on Guam as well, and transported to Yap for use as money. They have been used in trade by the Yapese as a form of currency.\n\nThe monetary system of Yap relies on an oral history of ownership. Because these stones are too large to move, buying an item with one simply involves agreeing that the ownership has changed. As long as the transaction is recorded in the oral history, it will now be owned by the person to whom it is passed and no physical movement of the stone is required.\n\nRai stones are circular disks with a hole in the middle. The stones vary widely in size. The largest are in diameter and thick and weigh . The largest rai stone is located on Rumung island, near Riy village. Smaller rai stones might have a diameter of from .\n\nThe extrinsic (perceived) value of a specific stone is based on not only its size and craftsmanship, but also its history. If many people—or no one at all—died when the specific stone was transported, or a famous sailor brought it in, the value of the rai stone increases by reason of its anecdotal heft.\n\nRai stones were, and still are, used in rare important social transactions, such as marriage, inheritance, political deals, sign of an alliance, ransom of the battle dead, or, rarely, in exchange for food. Many of them are placed in front of meetinghouses or along pathways. The physical location of the stone is often not significant. Although the ownership of a particular stone might change, the stone itself is rarely moved due to its weight and risk of damage. The names of previous owners are passed down to the new one. In one instance, a large rai being transported by canoe and outrigger was accidentally dropped and sank to the sea floor. Although it was never seen again, everyone agreed that the rai must still be there, so it continued to be transacted as genuine currency. What is important is that ownership of the rai is clear to everyone, not that the rai is physically transferred or even physically accessible to either party in the transfer.\n\nYapese quarried the limestone rocks from the islands of Palau and took them to Yap with canoes and rafts. There is evidence that some limestone has been mined in Palau by Yapese as early as 500 AD, but more widespread mining started in the time period of 1000–1400 AD. Local legend holds that the Yapese discovered the rock of Palau about 500–600 years ago when an expedition led by a man called Anagumang landed on Palau. Limestone was nonexistent in Yap and therefore very valuable to the Yapese. First Anagumang ordered his men to cut stone into the shape of fish but eventually a circular shape was chosen, probably because it was easier to transport. A pole was put through the hole in the center of the stone so that laborers could carry the stone. The largest of the disks probably needed hundreds of men to transport. Residents of Palau in turn required Yapese to pay in beads, coconut meat and copra or in the form of services for the privilege of quarrying.\n\nIt is unknown how long money stones have been used in Yap. Flat rocks have been found there that are up to 2000 years old, but the oldest do not resemble today's rai stones, and it is not known if they were used as money. It is nevertheless clear that the size of the stones grew sharply after European techniques and traders came to Yap. The stones may have evolved from smaller carved beads.\n\nIn 1871, the Irish-American David Dean O'Keefe was shipwrecked near Yap and was helped by the natives. Later, he assisted the Yapese in acquiring rai and in return received copra and trepang, which were valuable exports in the Far East. O'Keefe provided the Yapese with iron tools. As a result, a form of inflation set in and rai stones acquired with his help were less valuable than more ancient ones. The book \"His Majesty O'Keefe\" is the story of his life on Yap. A film of the same name starring Burt Lancaster was made in 1954.\n\nThe trade for rai stones eventually stopped at the beginning of the 20th century due to trade disputes between Spanish and German interests in the area. Quarries were abandoned. When Imperial Japanese forces took over Yap during World War II, they used some of the stones for construction or as anchors.\n\nEconomist Milton Friedman has compared the monetary role of the stone money to the reserves of gold held in Fort Knox for foreign governments.\n\nAlthough modern currency has replaced the stones as everyday currency, the rai stones are still exchanged in traditional ways between the Yapese. They are a national symbol and are depicted on local license plates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48434785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48434785", "title": "Sajid Afridi", "text": "Sajid Afridi\n\nSajid Afridi (born 8 April 1969) is a Pakistani former first-class cricketer. He is now an umpire and has stood in matches in the 2015–16 Quaid-e-Azam Trophy.\n"}
{"id": "37944166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37944166", "title": "Sathio", "text": "Sathio\n\nSathio (, ) is a Sindhi tribe mainly in district Tando Muhammad Khan, Sindh. There are some families in Karachi, Hyderabad, Thatta as well as in India and the UK.They are most handsome and intelligent and peace loving persons.Where From they came is not properly known but Tribal elders believe that they are the descendants of Indo-Scythians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "487090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=487090", "title": "Scientific racism", "text": "Scientific racism\n\nScientific racism (sometimes referred to as race biology, racial biology, or race realism) is the pseudoscientific belief that empirical evidence exists to support or justify racism (racial discrimination), racial inferiority, or racial superiority. Historically, scientific racist ideas received credence in the scientific community but are no longer considered scientific.\n\nScientific racism employs anthropology (notably physical anthropology), anthropometry, craniometry, and other disciplines or pseudo-disciplines, in proposing anthropological typologies supporting the classification of human populations into physically discrete human races, that might be asserted to be superior or inferior. Scientific racism was common during the period from 1600s to the end of World War I. Since the second half of the 20th century, scientific racism has been criticized as obsolete and discredited, yet historically has persistently been used to support or validate racist world-views, based upon belief in the existence and significance of racial categories and a hierarchy of superior and inferior races.\n\nAfter the end of World War II, scientific racism in theory and action was formally denounced, especially in UNESCO's early antiracist statement \"The Race Question\" (1950): \"The biological fact of race and the myth of 'race' should be distinguished. For all practical social purposes 'race' is not so much a biological phenomenon as a social myth. The myth of 'race' has created an enormous amount of human and social damage. In recent years, it has taken a heavy toll in human lives, and caused untold suffering\". Such \"biological fact\" is no longer considered to exist as developments in human evolutionary genetics showed that human genetic differences are nearly totally gradual.\n\nThe term \"scientific racism\" is generally used pejoratively as applied to more modern theories, as in \"The Bell Curve\" (1994). Critics argue that such works postulate racist conclusions unsupported by available evidence such as a connection between race and intelligence. Publications such as the \"Mankind Quarterly\", founded explicitly as a \"race-conscious\" journal, are generally regarded as platforms of scientific racism for publishing articles on fringe interpretations of human evolution, intelligence, ethnography, language, mythology, archaeology, and race subjects.\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment (an era from the 1650s to the 1780s), concepts of monogenism and polygenism became popular, though they would only be systematized epistemologically during the 19th century. Monogenism contends that all races have a single origin, while polygenism is the idea that each race has a separate origin. Until the 18th century, the words \"race\" and \"species\" were interchangeable.\n\nAn early scientist who studied race was Robert Boyle (1627–1691), an Anglo-Irish natural philosopher, chemist, physicist, and inventor. Boyle believed in what today is called 'monogenism', that is, that all races, no matter how diverse, came from the same source, Adam and Eve. He studied reported stories of parents' giving birth to different coloured albinos, so he concluded that Adam and Eve were originally white and that whites could give birth to different coloured races. Theories of Robert Hooke and Isaac Newton about color and light via optical dispersion in physics were also extended by Robert Boyle into discourses of polygenesis, speculating that maybe these differences were due to \"seminal impressions\". However, Boyle's writings mention that at his time, for \"European Eyes\", beauty was not measured so much in colour, but in \"stature, comely symmetry of the parts of the body, and good features in the face\". Various members of the scientific community rejected his views and described them as \"disturbing\" or \"amusing\".\n\nOn the other hand, historian Henri de Boulainvilliers (1658–1722) divided the French as two races: (i) the aristocratic \"French race\" descended from the invader Germanic Franks, and (ii) the indigenous Gallo-Roman race (the political Third Estate populace). The Frankish aristocracy dominated the Gauls by innate right of conquest.\n\nIn his time, Henri de Boulainvilliers, a believer in the \"right of conquest\", did not understand \"race\" as biologically immutable, but as a contemporary (racist) cultural construct. His racialist account of French history was not entirely mythical: despite \"supporting\" hagiographies and epic poetry, such as \"The Song of Roland\" (\"La Chanson de Roland\", c. 12th century), he sought scientific legitimation by basing his racialist distinction on the historical existence of genetically and linguistically distinguished Germanic and Latin-speaking peoples in France. His theoretic racialism was distinct from the biologic facts manipulated in 19th-century scientific racism. (cf. Cultural relativism)\n\nThe Scottish lawyer Henry Home, Lord Kames (1696–1782) was a polygenist: he believed God had created different races on Earth in separate regions. In his 1734 book \"Sketches on the History of Man\", Home claimed that the environment, climate, or state of society could not account for racial differences, so the races must have come from distinct, separate stocks.\n\nCarl Linnaeus (1707–1778), the Swedish physician, botanist, and zoologist, modified the established taxonomic bases of binomial nomenclature for fauna and flora, and was a pioneer researcher in biologically defining \"human race\". In \"Systema Naturae\" (1767), he labeled five \"varieties\" of human species.\nEach one was described as possessing the following physiognomic characteristics \"varying by culture and place\":\n\nThere are disagreements about what was the basis for Linnaeus' human taxa. On the one hand, the harshest critics say that the classification not only was ethnocentric but seemed to be based upon skin-color. On the other hand, Quintyn (2010) points out that some authors believe the classification was based upon geographical distribution, being cartographically based, and not hierarchical. Paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould (1994) argues that the taxa was \"not in the ranked order favored by most Europeans in the racist tradition\", and that Linnaeus' division was influenced by the medical theory of humors which said that a person's temperament may be related to biological fluids. In the opinion of Kenneth A.R. Kennedy (1976), Linneus certainly considered his own culture better, but his motives for classification of human varieties were not race-centered. The Linnean Society of London has stated that in Linnaeus' view, \"\"Europeans' superiority resides in \"culture\"\", and that the decisive factor in Linnaeus' taxa was \"culture\", \"not\" race. Thus, regarding this topic, they consider Linnaeus view as merely \"eurocentric\", arguing that Linnaeus never called for racist action, and did not use the word \"race\", which was only introduced later \"by his French opponent Buffon\". Scholar Stanley A. Rice agrees that Linnaeus' classification was not meant to \"imply a hierarchy of humanness or superiority\"; although modern critics see that his classification was obviously stereotyped, and erroneous for having included anthropological, non-biological features such as customs or traditions.\n\nJohn Hunter (1728–1793), a Scottish surgeon, said that originally the Negroid race was white at birth. He thought that over time because of the sun, the people turned dark skinned, or \"black\". Hunter also said that blisters and burns would likely turn white on a Negro, which he believed was evidence that their ancestors were originally white.\n\nCharles White (1728–1813), an English physician and surgeon, believed that races occupied different stations in the \"Great Chain of Being\", and he tried to scientifically prove that human races have distinct origins from each other. He believed that whites and Negroes were two different species. White was a believer in polygeny, the idea that different races had been created separately. His \"Account of the Regular Gradation in Man\" (1799) provided an empirical basis for this idea. White defended the theory of polygeny by rebutting French naturalist Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon's interfertility argument, which said that only the same species can interbreed. White pointed to species hybrids such as foxes, wolves, and jackals, which were separate groups that were still able to interbreed. For White, each race was a separate species, divinely created for its own geographical region.\n\nThe French naturalist Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon (1707–1788) and the German anatomist Johann Blumenbach (1752–1840) were believers in monogenism, the concept that all races have a single origin. They also believed in the \"degeneration theory\" of racial origins. They both said that Adam and Eve were Caucasian and that other races came about by degeneration from environmental factors, such as the sun and poor dieting. They believed that the degeneration could be reversed if proper environmental control was taken, and that all contemporary forms of man could revert to the original Caucasian race.\n\nThey thought Negroid pigmentation arose because of the heat of the tropical sun. They suggested cold wind caused the tawny colour of the Eskimos. They thought the Chinese relatively fair skinned compared to the other Asian stocks because they kept mostly in towns and were protected from environmental factors. Buffon said that food and the mode of living could make races degenerate and differentiate them from the original Caucasian race. According to Blumenbach, there are five races, all belonging to a single species: Caucasian, Mongolian, Ethiopian, American, and Malay. Blumenbach said:\n\n\"I have allotted the first place to the Caucasian for the reasons given below which make me esteem it the primeval one.\"\n\nBuffon believed humanity was only 6000 years old (the time since Adam). Many scientific racialists pointed out at the time that it would have been difficult for races to change so markedly in genotype and phenotype in such a short period of time. Believing in monogenism, Buffon thought that skin colour could change in a single lifetime, depending on the conditions of climate and diet.\n\nBenjamin Rush (1745–1813), a Founding Father of the United States and a physician, proposed that being black was a hereditary skin disease, which he called \"negroidism\", and that it could be cured. Rush believed non-whites were really white underneath but they were stricken with a non-contagious form of leprosy which darkened their skin color. Rush drew the conclusion that \"whites should not tyrannize over [blacks], for their disease should entitle them to a double portion of humanity. However, by the same token, whites should not intermarry with them, for this would tend to infect posterity with the 'disorder'... attempts must be made to cure the disease\".\n\nChristoph Meiners (1747–1810) was a German polygenist and believed that each race had a separate origin. Meiner studied the physical, mental and moral characteristics of each race, and built a race hierarchy based on his findings. Meiners split mankind into two divisions, which he labelled the \"beautiful white race\" and the \"ugly black race\". In Meiners's book \"The Outline of History of Mankind\", he said that a main characteristic of race is either beauty or ugliness. He thought only the white race to be beautiful. He considered ugly races to be inferior, immoral and animal-like. He said that the dark, ugly peoples were distinct from the white, beautiful peoples by their \"sad\" lack of virtue and their \"terrible vices\". According to Meiners,\n\nThe more intelligent and noble people are by nature, the more adaptable, sensitive, delicate, and soft is their body; on the other hand, the less they possess the capacity and disposition towards virtue, the more they lack adaptability; and not only that, but the less sensitive are their bodies, the more can they tolerate extreme pain or the rapid alteration of heat and cold; when they are exposed to illnesses, the more rapid their recovery from wounds that would be fatal for more sensitive peoples, and the more they can partake of the worst and most indigestible foods ... without noticeable ill effects.\n\nMeiners said the Negro felt less pain than any other race and lacked in emotions. Meiners wrote that the Negro had thick nerves and thus was not sensitive like the other races. He went as far as to say that the Negro has \"no human, barely any animal, feeling\". He described a story where a Negro was condemned to death by being burned alive. Halfway through the burning, the Negro asked to smoke a pipe and smoked it like nothing was happening while he continued to be burned alive. Meiners studied the anatomy of the Negro and came to the conclusion that Negroes have bigger teeth and jaws than any other race, as Negroes are all carnivores. Meiners claimed the skull of the Negro was larger but the brain of the Negro was smaller than any other race. Meiners claimed the Negro was the most unhealthy race on Earth because of its poor diet, mode of living and lack of morals.\n\nMeiners also claimed the \"Americans\" were an inferior stock of people. He said they could not adapt to different climates, types of food, or modes of life, and that when exposed to such new conditions, they lapse into a \"deadly melancholy\".\nMeiners studied the diet of the Americans and said they fed off any kind of \"foul offal\". He thought they consumed very much alcohol. He believed their skulls were so thick that the blades of Spanish swords shattered on them. Meiners also claimed the skin of an American is thicker than that of an ox.\n\nMeiners wrote that the noblest race was the Celts. They were able to conquer various parts of the world, they were more sensitive to heat and cold, and their delicacy is shown by the way they are selective about what they eat. Meiners claimed that Slavs are an inferior race, \"less sensitive and content with eating rough food\". He described stories of Slavs allegedly eating poisonous fungi without coming to any harm. He claimed that their medical techniques were also backward: he used as an example their heating sick people in ovens, then making them roll in the snow.\n\nIn Meiners's large work entitled \"Researches on the Variations in Human Nature\" (1815), he studied also the sexology of each race. He claimed that the African Negroids have unduly strong and perverted sex drives, whilst only the white Europeans have it just right.\n\nThomas Jefferson (1743–1826) was an American politician, scientist, and slave owner. His contributions to scientific racism have been noted by many historians, scientists and scholars. According to an article published in the McGill Journal of Medicine: \"One of the most influential pre-Darwinian racial theorists, Jefferson’s call for science to determine the obvious “inferiority” of African Americans is an extremely important stage in the evolution of scientific racism.\" The historian Paul Finkelman described Jefferson in The New York Times as follows: \"A scientist, Jefferson nevertheless speculated that blackness might come “from the color of the blood” and concluded that blacks were “inferior to the whites in the endowments of body and mind.”\" In his \"Notes on the State of Virginia\" Jefferson described black people as follows:\n\nThey seem to require less sleep. A black, after hard labor through the day, will be induced by the slightest amusements to sit up till midnight, or later, though knowing he must be out with the first dawn of the morning. They are at least as brave, and more adventuresome. But this may perhaps proceed from a want of forethought, which prevents their seeing a danger till it be present. When present, they do not go through it with more coolness or steadiness than the whites. They are more ardent after their female: but love seems with them to be more an eager desire, than a tender delicate mixture of sentiment and sensation. Their griefs are transient. Those numberless afflictions, which render it doubtful whether heaven has given life to us in mercy or in wrath, are less felt, and sooner forgotten with them. In general, their existence appears to participate more of sensation than reflection... Comparing them by their faculties of memory, reason, and imagination, it appears to me, that in memory they are equal to the whites; in reason much inferior, as I think one [black] could scarcely be found capable of tracing and comprehending the investigations of Euclid; and that in imagination they are dull, tasteless, and anomalous... I advance it therefore as a suspicion only, that the blacks, whether originally a distinct race, or made distinct by time and circumstances, are inferior to the whites in the endowments both of body and mind.\n\nHowever, by 1791, Jefferson had to reassess his earlier suspicions of whether blacks were capable of intelligence when he was presented with a letter and almanac from Benjamin Banneker, an educated black mathematician. Delighted to have discovered scientific proof for the existence of black intelligence, Jefferson wrote to Banneker:\n\nNo body wishes more than I do to see such proofs as you exhibit, that nature has given to our black brethren, talents equal to those of the other colors of men, & that the appearance of a want of them is owing merely to the degraded condition of their existence both in Africa & America. I can add with truth that no body wishes more ardently to see a good system commenced for raising the condition both of their body & mind to what it ought to be, as fast as the imbecility of their present existence, and other circumstance which cannot be neglected, will admit. \n\nSamuel Stanhope Smith (1751–1819) was an American Presbyterian Minister and author of \"Essay on the Causes of Variety of Complexion and Figure in the Human Species\" in 1787. Smith claimed that Negro pigmentation was nothing more than a huge freckle that covered the whole body as a result of an oversupply of bile, which was caused by tropical climates.\n\nRacial studies by Georges Cuvier (1769–1832), the French naturalist and zoologist, influenced scientific polygenism and scientific racism. Cuvier believed there were three distinct races: the Caucasian (white), Mongolian (yellow) and the Ethiopian (black). He rated each for the beauty or ugliness of the skull and quality of their civilizations. Cuvier wrote about Caucasians: \"The white race, with oval face, straight hair and nose, to which the civilised people of Europe belong and which appear to us the most beautiful of all, is also superior to others by its genius, courage and activity\".\n\nRegarding Negroes, Cuvier wrote:\n\nThe Negro race ... is marked by black complexion, crisped or woolly hair, compressed cranium and a flat nose. The projection of the lower parts of the face, and the thick lips, evidently approximate it to the monkey tribe: the hordes of which it consists have always remained in the most complete state of barbarism.\n\nHe thought Adam and Eve were Caucasian and hence the original race of mankind. The other two races arose by survivors' escaping in different directions after a major catastrophe hit the earth 5,000 years ago. He theorized that the survivors lived in complete isolation from each other and developed separately.\n\nOne of Cuvier's pupils, Friedrich Tiedemann, was one of the first to make a scientific contestation of racism. He argued based on craniometric and brain measurements taken by him from Europeans and black people from different parts of the world that the then-common European belief that Negroes have smaller brains, and are thus intellectually inferior, is scientifically unfounded and based merely on the prejudice of travellers and explorers.\n\nThe German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer (1788–1860) attributed civilizational primacy to the white races, who gained sensitivity and intelligence via the refinement caused by living in the rigorous Northern climate:\n\nFranz Ignaz Pruner (1808–1882) was a medical doctor who studied the racial structure of Negroes in Egypt. In a book which he wrote in 1846 he claimed that Negro blood had a negative influence on the Egyptian moral character. He published a monograph on Negroes in 1861. He claimed that the main feature of the Negro's skeleton is prognathism, which he claimed was the Negro's relation to the ape. He also claimed that Negroes had very similar brains to apes and that Negroes have a shortened big toe, which is a characteristic connecting Negroes closely to apes.\n\nThe scientific classification established by Carl Linnaeus is requisite to any human racial classification scheme. In the 19th century, unilineal evolution (a.k.a. classical social evolution) was a conflation of competing sociologic and anthropologic theories proposing that Western European culture was the acme of human socio-cultural evolution. The proposal that social status is unilineal—from primitive to civilized, from agricultural to industrial—became popular among philosophers, including Friedrich Hegel, Immanuel Kant, and Auguste Comte. The Christian Bible was interpreted to sanction slavery and from the 1820s to the 1850s was often used in the antebellum Southern United States, by writers such as the Rev. Richard Furman and Thomas R. Cobb, to enforce the idea that Negroes had been created inferior, and thus suited to slavery.\n\nCharles Darwin's influential 1859 book \"On the Origin of Species\" did not discuss human origins. The extended wording on the title page, which adds \"by Means of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life\", uses the general term \"races\" as an alternative for \"varieties\" and does not carry the modern connotation of human races. The first use in the book refers to \"the several races, for instance, of the cabbage\" and proceeds to a discussion of \"the hereditary varieties or races of our domestic animals and plants\". In \"The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex\" (1871), Darwin examined the question of \"Arguments in favour of, and opposed to, ranking the so-called races of man as distinct species\" and reported no racial distinctions that would indicate that human races are discrete species:\n\nRichard Weikart, in his book \"From Darwin to Hitler: Evolutionary Ethics, Eugenics and Racism in Germany\" (2004), claims:\n\nDarwin clearly believed that the struggle for existence among humans would result in racial extermination. In \"Descent of Man\" he asserted, \"At some future period, not very distant as measured by centuries, the civilised races of man will almost certainly exterminate and replace throughout the world the savage races\".\n\nAccording to talk.origins, this is a common creationist quote mine. They argue that when Darwin referred to \"race\" he meant \"varieties\", not human races, as per the cabbage example cited above. Apart from the plain meaning of the words, they assert \"there is nothing in Darwin's words to support (and much in his life to contradict) any claim that Darwin wanted the 'lower' or 'savage races' to be exterminated. He was merely noting what appeared to him to be factual, based in no small part on the evidence of a European binge of imperialism and colonial conquest during his lifetime\". The quoted passage, in full context, reads:\n\nIn the Chapter \"On the Development of the Intellectual and Moral Faculties during Primeval and Civilised Times\" Darwin claimed that \"the western nations of Europe, who now so immeasurably surpass their former savage progenitors, and stand at the summit of civilisation, owe little or none of their superiority to direct inheritance from the old Greeks\".\n\nWhile proposing a sole human species, Darwin contrasted the \"civilized races\" with the \"savage races\". Like most of his contemporaries, except the naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace, he did not distinguish \"biological race\" from \"cultural race\". Moreover, he noted that savage races risked extinction more from white European colonialism, than from evolutionary inadequacy.\n\nOn the question of differences between races, Darwin wrote:\n\nThe French aristocrat and writer Arthur de Gobineau (1816–1882), is best known for his book \"An Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races\" (1853–55) which proposed three human races (black, white and yellow) were natural barriers and claimed that race mixing would lead to the collapse of culture and civilization. He claimed that \"The white race originally possessed the monopoly of beauty, intelligence and strength\" and that any positive accomplishments or thinking of blacks and Asians were due to an admixture with whites. His works were praised by many white supremacist American pro-slavery thinkers such as Josiah C. Nott and Henry Hotze.\n\nGobineau believed that the different races originated in different areas, the white race had originated somewhere in Siberia, the Asians in the Americas and the blacks in Africa. He believed that the white race was superior, writing:\nGobineau later used the term \"Aryans\" to describe the Germanic peoples (\"la race germanique\").\n\nGobineau's works were also influential to the Nazi Party, which published his works in German. They played a key role in the master race theory of Nazism.\n\nAnother polygenist evolutionist was Karl Vogt (1817–1895) who believed that the Negro race was related to the ape. He wrote the white race was a separate species to Negroes. In Chapter VII of his \"lectures of man\" (1864) he compared the Negro to the white race whom he described as \"two extreme human types\". The difference between them, he claimed are greater than those between two species of ape; and this proves that Negroes are a separate species from the whites.\n\nAs an exponent of race science, Colonial administrator Herbert Hope Risley (1851–1911) used the ratio of the width of a nose to its height to divide Indian people into Aryan and Dravidian races, as well as seven castes.\n\nLike most of Darwin's supporters, Ernst Haeckel (1834–1919) put forward a doctrine of evolutionary polygenism based on the ideas of the linguist and polygenist August Schleicher, in which several different language groups had arisen separately from speechless prehuman \"Urmenschen\" (German for \"original humans\"), which themselves had evolved from simian ancestors. These separate languages had completed the transition from animals to man, and, under the influence of each main branch of languages, humans had evolved as separate species, which could be subdivided into races. Haeckel divided human beings into ten races, of which the Caucasian was the highest and the primitives were doomed to extinction. Haeckel was also an advocate of the out of Asia theory by writing that the origin of humanity was to be found in Asia; he believed that Hindustan (South Asia) was the actual location where the first humans had evolved. Haeckel argued that humans were closely related to the primates of Southeast Asia and rejected Darwin's hypothesis of Africa.\n\nHaeckel also wrote that Negroes have stronger and more freely movable toes than any other race which is evidence that Negroes are related to apes because when apes stop climbing in trees they hold on to the trees with their toes, Haeckel compared Negroes to \"four-handed\" apes. Haeckel also believed Negroes were savages and that whites were the most civilised.\n\nAt the 19th century's end, scientific racism conflated Græco–Roman eugenicism with Francis Galton's concept of voluntary eugenics to produce a form of coercive, anti-immigrant government programs influenced by other socio-political discourses and events. Such institutional racism was effected via Phrenology, telling character from physiognomy; craniometric skull and skeleton studies; thus skulls and skeletons of black people and other colored \"volk\", were displayed between apes and white men.\n\nIn 1906, Ota Benga, a Pygmy, was displayed as the \"Missing Link\", in the Bronx Zoo, New York City, alongside apes and animals. The most influential theorists included the anthropologist Georges Vacher de Lapouge (1854–1936) who proposed \"anthroposociology\"; and Johann Gottfried Herder (1744–1803), who applied \"race\" to nationalist theory, thereby developing the first conception of ethnic nationalism. In 1882, Ernest Renan contradicted Herder with a nationalism based upon the \"will to live together\", not founded upon ethnic or racial prerequisites. Scientific racist discourse posited the historical existence of \"national races\" such as the \"Deutsche Volk\" in Germany, and the \"French race\" being a branch of the basal \"Aryan race\" extant for millennia, to advocate for geopolitical borders parallel to the racial ones.\n\nThe Dutch scholar Pieter Camper (1722–89), an early craniometric theoretician, used \"craniometry\" (interior skull-volume measurement) to scientifically justify racial differences. In 1770, he conceived of the facial angle to measure intelligence among species of men. The facial angle was formed by drawing two lines: a horizontal line from nostril to ear; and a vertical line from the upper-jawbone prominence to the forehead prominence. Camper's craniometry reported that antique statues (the Græco–Roman ideal) had a 90-degree facial angle, whites an 80-degree angle, blacks a 70-degree angle, and the orangutan a 58-degree facial angle—thus he established a racist biological hierarchy for mankind, per the Decadent conception of history. Such scientific racist researches were continued by the naturalist Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire (1772–1844) and the anthropologist Paul Broca (1824–1880).\n\nIn the 19th century, an early American physical anthropologist, physician and polygenist Samuel George Morton (1799–1851), collected human skulls from worldwide, and attempted a logical classification scheme. Influenced by contemporary racialist theory, Dr Morton said he could judge racial intellectual capacity by measuring the interior cranial capacity, hence a large skull denoted a large brain, thus high intellectual capacity. Conversely, a small skull denoted a small brain, thus low intellectual capacity; superior and inferior established. After inspecting three mummies from ancient Egyptian catacombs, Morton concluded that Caucasians and Negroes were already distinct three thousand years ago. Since the bible indicated that Noah's Ark had washed up on Mount Ararat only a thousand years earlier, Morton claimed that Noah's sons could not possibly account for every race on earth. According to Morton's theory of polygenesis, races have been separate since the start.\n\nIn Morton's \"Crania Americana\", his claims were based on Craniometry data, that the Caucasians had the biggest brains, averaging 87 cubic inches, Native Americans were in the middle with an average of 82 cubic inches and Negroes had the smallest brains with an average of 78 cubic inches.\n\nIn \"The Mismeasure of Man\" (1981), the historian of science Stephen Jay Gould argued that Samuel Morton had falsified the craniometric data, perhaps inadvertently over-packing some skulls, to so produce results that would legitimize the racist presumptions he was attempting to prove. A subsequent study by the anthropologist John Michael found Morton's original data to be more accurate than Gould describes, concluding that \"[c]ontrary to Gould's interpretation... Morton's research was conducted with integrity\". Jason Lewis and colleagues reached similar conclusions as Michael in their reanalysis of Morton's skull collection; however, they depart from Morton's racist conclusions by adding that \"studies have demonstrated that modern human variation is generally continuous, rather than discrete or \"racial,\" and that most variation in modern humans is within, rather than between, populations\".\n\nIn 1873, Paul Broca, founder of the Anthropological Society of Paris (1859), found the same pattern of measures—that \"Crania Americana\" reported—by weighing specimen brains at autopsy. Other historical studies, proposing a black race–white race, intelligence–brain size difference, include those by Bean (1906), Mall (1909), Pearl (1934), and Vint (1934).\n\nAfter the War of the Pacific (1879–83) there was a rise of racial and national superiority ideas among the Chilean ruling class. In his 1918 book physician Nicolás Palacios argued for the existence of Chilean race and its superiority when compared to neighboring peoples. He thought Chileans were a mix of two martial races: the indigenous Mapuches and the Visigoths of Spain, who descended ultimately from Götaland in Sweden. Palacios argued on medical grounds against immigration to Chile from southern Europe claiming that Mestizos who are of south European stock lack \"cerebral control\" and are a social burden.\n\nSamuel Morton's followers, especially Dr Josiah C. Nott (1804–1873) and George Gliddon (1809–1857), extended Dr Morton's ideas in \"Types of Mankind\" (1854), claiming that Morton's findings supported the notion of polygenism—mankind has discrete genetic ancestries; the races are evolutionarily unrelated, and is predecessor of the modern human multiregional origin hypothesis. Moreover, Morton himself had been reluctant to espouse polygenism, because it theologically challenged the Christian creation myth espoused in the Bible.\n\nLater, in \"The Descent of Man\" (1871), Charles Darwin proposed the single-origin hypothesis, i.e., monogenism—mankind has a common genetic ancestry, the races are related, opposing everything that the polygenism of Nott and Gliddon proposed.\n\nOne of the first typologies used to classify various human races was invented by Georges Vacher de Lapouge (1854–1936), a theoretician of eugenics, who published in 1899 \"L'Aryen et son rôle social\" (1899 – \"The Aryan and his social role\"). In this book, he classified humanity into various, hierarchized races, spanning from the \"Aryan white race, dolichocephalic\", to the \"brachycephalic\", \"mediocre and inert\" race, best represented by Southern European, Catholic peasants\". Between these, Vacher de Lapouge identified the \"\"Homo europaeus\" (Teutonic, Protestant, etc.), the \"Homo alpinus\" (Auvergnat, Turkish, etc.), and finally the \"Homo mediterraneus\"\" (Neapolitan, Andalus, etc.) Jews were brachycephalic like the Aryans, according to Lapouge; but exactly for this reason he considered them to be dangerous; they were the only group, he thought, threatening to displace the Aryan aristocracy. Vacher de Lapouge became one of the leading inspirators of Nazi antisemitism and Nazi racist ideology.\n\nVacher de Lapouge's classification was mirrored in William Z. Ripley in \"The Races of Europe\" (1899), a book which had a large influence on American white supremacism. Ripley even made a map of Europe according to the alleged cephalic index of its inhabitants. He was an important influence of the American eugenist Madison Grant.\n\nFurthermore, according to John Efron of Indiana University, the late 19th century also witnessed \"the scientizing of anti-Jewish prejudice\", stigmatizing Jews with male menstruation, pathological hysteria, and nymphomania. At the same time, several Jews, such as Joseph Jacobs or Samuel Weissenberg, also endorsed the same pseudoscientific theories, convinced that the Jews formed a distinct race. Chaim Zhitlovsky also attempted to define \"Yiddishkayt\" (Ashkenazi Jewishness) by turning to contemporary racial theory.\n\nJoseph Deniker (1852–1918) was one of William Z. Ripley's principal opponents; whereas Ripley maintained, as did Vacher de Lapouge, that the European populace comprised three races, Joseph Deniker proposed that the European populace comprised ten races (six primary and four sub-races). Furthermore, he proposed that the concept of \"race\" was ambiguous, and in its stead proposed the compound word \"ethnic group\", which later prominently featured in the works of Julian Huxley and Alfred C. Haddon. Moreover, Ripley argued that Deniker's \"race\" idea should be denoted a \"type\", because it was less biologically rigid than most racial classifications.\n\nJoseph Deniker's contribution to racist theory was \"La Race nordique\" (the Nordic race), a generic, racial-stock descriptor, which the American eugenicist Madison Grant (1865–1937) presented as the white racial engine of world civilization. Having adopted Ripley's three-race European populace model, but disliking the \"Teuton\" race name, he transliterated \"la race nordique\" into \"The Nordic race\", the acme of the concocted racial hierarchy, based upon his racial classification theory, popular in the 1910s and 1920s.\n\nStatens institut för rasbiologi and its director Herman Lundborg in Sweden were active in racist research. Furthermore, much of early research on Ural-Altaic languages was coloured by attempts at justifying the view that European peoples east of Sweden were Asian and thus of inferior race, justifying colonialism, eugenics and racial hygiene.\n\nIn the United States, scientific racism justified Black African slavery to assuage moral opposition to the Atlantic slave trade. Alexander Thomas and Samuell Sillen described black men as uniquely fitted for bondage, because of their \"primitive psychological organization\". In 1851, in antebellum Louisiana, the physician Samuel A. Cartwright (1793–1863) wrote of slave escape attempts as \"drapetomania\", a treatable mental illness, that \"with proper medical advice, strictly followed, this troublesome practice that many Negroes have of running away can be almost entirely prevented\". The term \"drapetomania\" (mania of the runaway slave) derives from the Greek δραπέτης (\"drapetes\", \"a runaway [slave]\") and μανία (\"mania\", \"madness, frenzy\") Cartwright also described \"dysaesthesia aethiopica\", called \"rascality\" by overseers. The 1840 United States Census claimed that Northern, free blacks suffered mental illness at higher rates than did their Southern, enslaved counterparts. Though the census was later found to have been severely flawed by the American Statistical Association, to John Quincy Adams and others it became a political weapon against abolitionists. Southern slavers concluded that escaping Negroes were suffering from \"mental disorders\".\n\nAt the time of the American Civil War (1861–65), the matter of miscegenation prompted studies of ostensible physiological differences between Caucasians and Negroes. Early anthropologists, such as Josiah Clark Nott, George Robins Gliddon, Robert Knox, and Samuel George Morton, aimed to scientifically prove that Negroes were a human species different from the white people species; that the rulers of Ancient Egypt were not African; and that mixed-race offspring (the product of miscegenation) tended to physical weakness and infertility. After the Civil War, Southern (Confederacy) physicians wrote textbooks of scientific racism based upon studies claiming that black freemen (ex-slaves) were becoming extinct, because they were inadequate to the demands of being a free man—implying that black people benefited from enslavement.\n\nIn \"Medical Apartheid\", Harriet A. Washington noted the prevalence of two different views on blacks in the 19th century: the belief that they were inferior and \"riddled with imperfections from head to toe\", and the idea that they didn't know true pain and suffering because of their primitive nervous systems (and that slavery was therefore justifiable). Washington noted the failure of scientists to accept the inconsistency between these two viewpoints, writing that \"in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, scientific racism was simply science, and it was promulgated by the very best minds at the most prestigious institutions of the nation. Other, more logical medical theories stressed the equality of Africans and laid poor black health at the feet of their abusers, but these never enjoyed the appeal of the medical philosophy that justified slavery and, along with it, our nation's profitable way of life.\"\n\nEven after the end of the Civil War, some scientists continued to justify the institution of slavery by citing the effect of topography and climate on racial development. Nathaniel Shaler, a prominent geologist at Harvard University from 1869-1906, published the book \"Man and the Earth\" in 1905 describing the physical geography of different continents and linking these geologic settings to the intelligence and strength of human races that inhabited these spaces. Shaler argued that North American climate and geology was ideally suited for the institution of slavery.\n\nScientific racism played a role in establishing apartheid in South Africa. In South Africa, white scientists, like Dudly Kidd, who published \"The essential Kafir\" in 1904, sought to \"understand the African mind\". They believed that the cultural differences between whites and blacks in South Africa might be caused by physiological differences in the brain. Rather than suggesting that Africans were \"overgrown children\", as early white explorers had, Kidd believed that Africans were \"misgrown with a vengeance\". He described Africans as at once \"hopelessly deficient\", yet \"very shrewd\".\n\nThe Carnegie Commission on the Poor White Problem in South Africa played a key role in establishing apartheid in South Africa. According to one memorandum sent to Frederick Keppel, then president of the Carnegie Corporation, there was \"little doubt that if the natives were given full economic opportunity, the more competent among them would soon outstrip the less competent whites\". Keppel's support for the project of creating the report was motivated by his concern with the maintenance of existing racial boundaries. The preoccupation of the Carnegie Corporation with the so-called poor white problem in South Africa was at least in part the outcome of similar misgivings about the state of poor whites in the southern United States.\n\nThe report was five volumes in length. Around the start of the 20th century, white Americans, and whites elsewhere in the world, felt uneasy because poverty and economic depression seemed to strike people regardless of race.\n\nThough the ground work for apartheid began earlier, the report provided support for this central idea of black inferiority. This was used to justify racial segregation and discrimination in the following decades. The report expressed fear about the loss of white racial pride, and in particular pointed to the danger that the poor white would not be able to resist the process of \"Africanisation\".\n\nAlthough scientific racism played a role in justifying and supporting institutional racism in South Africa, it was not as important in South Africa as it has been in Europe and the United States. This was due in part to the \"poor white problem\", which raised serious questions for supremacists about white racial superiority. Since poor whites were found to be in the same situation as natives in the African environment, the idea that intrinsic white superiority could overcome any environment did not seem to hold. As such, scientific justifications for racism were not as useful in South Africa.\n\nStephen Jay Gould described Madison Grant's \"The Passing of the Great Race\" (1916) as \"the most influential tract of American scientific racism.\" In the 1920s–30s, the German racial hygiene movement embraced Grant's Nordic theory. Alfred Ploetz (1860–1940) coined the term \"Rassenhygiene\" in \"Racial Hygiene Basics\" (1895), and founded the German Society for Racial Hygiene in 1905. The movement advocated selective breeding, compulsory sterilization, and a close alignment of public health with eugenics.\n\nRacial hygiene was historically tied to traditional notions of public health, but with emphasis on heredity—what philosopher and historian Michel Foucault has called state racism. In 1869, Francis Galton (1822–1911) proposed the first social measures meant to preserve or enhance biological characteristics, and later coined the term \"eugenics\". Galton, a statistician, introduced correlation and regression analysis and discovered regression toward the mean. He was also the first to study human differences and inheritance of intelligence with statistical methods. He introduced the use of questionnaires and surveys to collect data on population sets, which he needed for genealogical and biographical works and for anthropometric studies. Galton also founded psychometrics, the science of measuring mental faculties, and differential psychology, a branch of psychology concerned with psychological differences between people rather than common traits.\n\nLike scientific racism, eugenics grew popular in the early 20th century, and both ideas influenced Nazi racial policies and Nazi eugenics. In 1901, Galton, Karl Pearson (1857–1936) and Walter F.R. Weldon (1860–1906) founded the \"Biometrika\" scientific journal, which promoted biometrics and statistical analysis of heredity. Charles Davenport (1866–1944) was briefly involved in the review. In \"Race Crossing in Jamaica\" (1929), he made statistical arguments that biological and cultural degradation followed white and black interbreeding. Davenport was connected to Nazi Germany before and during World War II. In 1939 he wrote a contribution to the \"festschrift\" for Otto Reche (1879–1966), who became an important figure within the plan to remove populations considered \"inferior\" from eastern Germany.\n\nScientific racism continued through the early 20th century, and soon intelligence testing became a new source for racial comparisons. Before World War II (1939–45), scientific racism remained common to anthropology, and was used as justification for eugenics programs, compulsory sterilization, anti-miscegenation laws, and immigration restrictions in Europe and the United States. The war crimes and crimes against humanity of Nazi Germany (1933–45) discredited scientific racism in academia, but racist legislation based upon it remained in some countries until the late 1960s.\n\nBefore the 1920s, social scientists agreed that whites were superior to blacks, but they needed a way to prove this in order to back social policy in favor of whites. They felt the best way to gauge this was through testing intelligence. By interpreting the tests to show favor to whites these test makers’ research results portrayed all minority groups very negatively.\nIn 1908, Henry Goddard translated the Binet intelligence test from French and in 1912 began to apply the test to incoming immigrants on Ellis Island. Some claim that in a study of immigrants Goddard reached the conclusion that 87% of Russians, 83% of Jews, 80% of Hungarians, and 79% of Italians were feeble-minded and had a mental age less than 12. Some have also claimed that this information was taken as \"evidence\" by lawmakers and thus it affected social policy for years. Bernard Davis has pointed out that, in the first sentence of his paper, Goddard wrote that the subjects of the study were not typical members of their groups but were selected because of their suspected sub-normal intelligence. Davis has further noted that Goddard argued that the low IQs of the test subjects were more likely due to environmental rather than genetic factors, and that Goddard concluded that \"we may be confident that their children will be of average intelligence and if rightly brought up will be good citizens\". In 1996 the American Psychological Association's Board of Scientific Affairs stated that IQ tests were not discriminatory towards any ethnic/racial groups.\n\nIn his book \"The Mismeasure of Man\", Stephen Jay Gould argued that intelligence testing results played a major role in the passage of the Immigration Act of 1924 that restricted immigration to the United States. However, Mark Snyderman and Richard J. Herrnstein, after studying the Congressional Record and committee hearings related to the Immigration Act, concluded \"the [intelligence] testing community did not generally view its findings as favoring restrictive immigration policies like those in the 1924 Act, and Congress took virtually no notice of intelligence testing\".\n\nJuan N. Franco contested the findings of Snyderman and Herrnstein. Franco stated that even though Snyderman and Herrnstein reported that the data collected from the results of the intelligence tests were in no way used to pass The Immigration Act of 1924, the IQ test results were still taken into consideration by legislators. As suggestive evidence, Franco pointed to the following fact: Following the passage of the immigration act, information from the 1890 census was used to set quotas based on percentages of immigrants coming from different countries. Based on these data, the legislature restricted the entrance of immigrants from southern and eastern Europe into the United States and allowed more immigrants from northern and Western Europe into the country. The use of the 1900, 1910 or 1920 census data sets would have resulted in larger numbers of immigrants from southern and eastern Europe being allowed into the U.S. However, Franco pointed out that using the 1890 census data allowed congress to exclude southern and eastern Europeans (who performed worse on IQ tests of the time than did western and northern Europeans) from the U.S. Franco argued that the work Snyderman and Herrnstein conducted on this matter neither proved or disproved that intelligence testing influenced immigration laws.\n\nFollowing the creation of the first society for the promotion of racial hygiene, the German Society for Racial Hygiene in 1905—a Swedish society was founded in 1909 as \"Svenska sällskapet för rashygien\" as third in the world. By lobbying Swedish parliamentarians and medical institutes the society managed to pass a decree creating a government run institute in the form of the Swedish State institute of racial biology in 1921. By 1922 the institute was built and opened in Uppsala. It was the first such government-funded institute in the world performing research into \"racial biology\" and remains highly controversial to this day. The goal was to cure criminality, alcoholism and psychiatric problems through research in eugenics and racial hygiene. As a result of the institutes work a law permitting compulsory sterilization of certain groups was enacted in Sweden in 1934. The second president of the institute Gunnar Dahlberg was highly critical of the validity of the science performed at the institute and reshaped the institute toward a focus on genetics. In 1958 it closed down and all remaining research was moved to the Department of medical genetics at Uppsala University.\n\nThe Nazi Party and its sympathizers published many books on scientific racism, seizing on the eugenicist and antisemitic ideas with which they were widely associated, although these ideas had been in circulation since the 19th century. Books such as \"Rassenkunde des deutschen Volkes\" (\"Ethnology of the German People\") by Hans F. K. Günther and \"Rasse und Seele\" (\"Race and Soul\") by attempted to scientifically identify differences between the German, Nordic, or Aryan people and other, supposedly inferior, groups. German schools used these books as texts during the Nazi era.\nIn the early 1930s, the Nazis used racialized scientific rhetoric based on social Darwinism to push its restrictive and discriminatory social policies.\n\nDuring World War II, Nazi racialist beliefs became anathema in the United States, and Boasians such as Ruth Benedict consolidated their institutional power. After the war, discovery of the Holocaust and Nazi abuses of scientific research (such as Josef Mengele's ethical violations and other war crimes revealed at the Nuremberg Trials) led most of the scientific community to repudiate scientific support for racism.\n\nPropaganda for the Nazi eugenics program began with propaganda for eugenic sterilization. Articles in \"Neues Volk\" described the appearance of the mentally ill and the importance of preventing such births. Photographs of mentally incapacitated children were juxtaposed with those of healthy children. The film \"Das Erbe\" showed conflict in nature in order to legitimate the Law for the Prevention of Hereditarily Diseased Offspring by sterilization.\n\nAlthough the child was \"the most important treasure of the people\", this did not apply to all children, even German ones, only to those with no hereditary weaknesses. Nazi Germany's racially based social policies placed the improvement of the Aryan race through eugenics at the center of Nazis ideology. Those humans were targeted who were identified as \"life unworthy of life\" (), including but not limited to Jewish people, criminals, degenerate, dissident, feeble-minded, homosexual, idle, insane, and the weak, for elimination from the chain of heredity. Despite their still being regarded as \"Aryan\", Nazi ideology deemed Slavs (i.e., Poles, Russians, Ukrainians, etc.) to be inferior to the Germanic master race, suitable for expulsion, enslavement, or even extermination.\n\nAdolf Hitler banned intelligence quotient (IQ) testing for being \"Jewish\" as did Joseph Stalin for being \"bourgeois\".\n\nIn the 20th century, concepts of scientific racism, which sought to prove the physical and mental inadequacy of groups deemed \"inferior\", was relied upon to justify involuntary sterilization programs. Such programs, promoted by eugenicists such as Harry H. Laughlin, were upheld as constitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Buck v. Bell\" (1927). In all, between 60,000 and 90,000 Americans were subjected to involuntary sterilization.\n\nScientific racism was also used as a justification for the Emergency Quota Act of 1921 and the Immigration Act of 1924 (Johnson–Reed Act), which imposed racial quotas limiting Italian American immigration to the United States and immigration other southern European and eastern European nations. Proponents of these quotas, who sought to block \"undesirable\" immigrants, justifying restrictions by invoking scientific racism.\n\nLothrop Stoddard published many racialist books on what he saw as the peril of immigration, his most famous being \"The Rising Tide of Color Against White World-Supremacy\" in 1920. In this book he presented a view of the world situation pertaining to race focusing concern on the coming population explosion among the \"colored\" peoples of the world and the way in which \"white world-supremacy\" was being lessened in the wake of World War I and the collapse of colonialism.\n\nStoddard's analysis divided world politics and situations into \"white\", \"yellow\", \"black\", \"Amerindian\", and \"brown\" peoples and their interactions. Stoddard argued race and heredity were the guiding factors of history and civilization, and that the elimination or absorption of the \"white\" race by \"colored\" races would result in the destruction of Western civilization. Like Madison Grant, Stoddard divided the white race into three main divisions: Nordic, Alpine, and Mediterranean. He considered all three to be of good stock, and far above the quality of the colored races, but argued that the Nordic was the greatest of the three and needed to be preserved by way of eugenics. Unlike Grant, Stoddard was less concerned with which varieties of European people were superior to others (Nordic theory), but was more concerned with what he called \"bi-racialism\", seeing the world as being composed of simply \"colored\" and \"white\" races. In the years after the Great Migration and World War I, Grant's racial theory would fall out of favor in the U.S. in favor of a model closer to Stoddard's.\n\nAn influential publication was \"The Races of Europe\" (1939) by Carleton S. Coon, president of the American Association of Physical Anthropologists from 1930 to 1961. Coon was a proponent of Multiregional origin of modern humans. He divided \"Homo sapiens\" into five main races:\nCoon's school of thought was the object of increasing opposition in mainstream anthropology after World War II. Ashley Montagu was particularly vocal in denouncing Coon, especially in his \"Man's Most Dangerous Myth: The Fallacy of Race\". By the 1960s, Coon's approach had been rendered obsolete in mainstream anthropology, but his system continued to appear in publications by his student John Lawrence Angel as late as in the 1970s.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" (1896) United States Supreme Court decision—which upheld the constitutional legality of racial segregation under the doctrine of \"separate but equal\"—was intellectually rooted in the racism of the era, as was the popular support for the decision. Later, in the mid 20th century, the Supreme Court's \"Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka\" (1954) decision rejected racialist arguments about the \"need\" for racial segregation—especially in public schools.\n\nBy 1954, 58 years after the \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" upholding of racial segregation in the United States, American popular and scholarly opinions of scientific racism and its sociologic practice had evolved. In 1960 the journal \"Mankind Quarterly\" started, which some have described as a venue for scientific racism. It has been criticized for a claimed ideological bias, and for lacking a legitimate scholarly purpose. The journal was founded in 1960, partly in response to the Supreme Court decision \"Brown v. Board of Education\" which desegregated the American public school system.\n\nIn April 1966, Alex Haley interviewed American Nazi Party founder George Lincoln Rockwell for \"Playboy\". Rockwell justified his belief that blacks were inferior to whites by citing a long 1916 study by G.O. Ferguson which claimed to show that the intellectual performance of black students was correlated with their percentage of white ancestry, stating \"pure negroes, negroes three-fourths pure, mulattoes and quadroons have, roughly, 60, 70, 80 and 90 percent, respectively, of white intellectual efficiency\". Playboy later published the interview with an editorial note claiming the study was a \"discredited ... pseudoscientific rationale for racism\".\nInternational bodies such as UNESCO attempted to draft resolutions that would summarize the state of scientific knowledge about race and issued calls for the resolution of racial conflicts. In its 1950 \"The Race Question\", UNESCO did not reject the idea of a biological basis to racial categories, but instead defined a race as: \"A race, from the biological standpoint, may therefore be defined as one of the group of populations constituting the species Homo sapiens\", which were broadly defined as the Caucasian, Mongoloid, Negroid races but stated that \"It is now generally recognized that intelligence tests do not in themselves enable us to differentiate safely between what is due to innate capacity and what is the result of environmental influences, training and education.\"\n\nToday, the term \"scientific racism\" is used to refer to research seeming to scientifically justify racist ideology. The accusation of scientific racism often is cast upon researchers claiming the existence of races and or of quantifiable differences in intelligence among these races, especially if said differences are partly genetic in origin. Contemporary researchers and authors include the late Arthur Jensen (\"\"); the late J. Philippe Rushton, president of the Pioneer Fund (\"Race, Evolution, and Behavior\"); the late Chris Brand (\"\"); Richard Lynn (\"IQ and the Wealth of Nations\"); Charles Murray and the late Richard Herrnstein (\"The Bell Curve\"); and Nicholas Wade (\"A Troublesome Inheritance\"), among others. These authors themselves, while seeing their work as scientific, may dispute the term \"racism\" and may prefer terms such as \"race realism\" or \"racialism\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "503581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=503581", "title": "Sex ratio", "text": "Sex ratio\n\nThe sex ratio is the ratio of males to females in a population. In most sexually reproducing species, the ratio tends to be 1:1. This tendency is explained by Fisher's principle. For various reasons, however, many species deviate from anything like an even sex ratio, either periodically or permanently. Examples include parthenogenic species, periodically mating organisms such as aphids, some eusocial wasps such as \"Polistes fuscatus\" and \"Polistes exclamans\", bees, ants, and termites.\n\nThe human sex ratio is of particular interest to anthropologists and demographers. In human societies, however, sex ratios at birth may be considerably skewed by factors such as the age of mother at birth, and by sex-selective abortion and infanticide. Exposure to pesticides and other environmental contaminants may be a significant contributing factor as well. As of 2014, the global sex ratio at birth is estimated at 107 boys to 100 girls (1000 boys per 934 girls).\n\nIn most species, the sex ratio varies according to the age profile of the population.\n\nIt is generally divided into four subdivisions:\n\n\nMeasuring these requires sophisticated mathematics since they lack clear boundaries.\n\nThe theory of sex ratio is a field of study concerned with the accurate prediction of sex ratios in all sexual species, based on a consideration of their natural history. The field continues to be heavily influenced by Eric Charnov’s 1982 book, \"Sex Allocation\". He defines five major questions, both for his book and the field in general (slightly abbreviated here):\n\nBiological research mostly concerns itself with sex \"allocation\" rather than sex ratio, sex allocation denoting the allocation of energy to either sex. Common research themes are the effects of local mate and resource competition (often abbreviated LMC and LRC, respectively).\n\nFisher’s principle explains why for most species, the sex ratio is approximately 1:1. Bill Hamilton expounded Fisher’s argument in his 1967 paper on “Extraordinary sex ratios” as follows, given the assumption of equal parental expenditure on offspring of both sexes.\n\nIn modern language, the 1:1 ratio is the evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS). This ratio has been observed in many species, including the bee Macrotera portalis. A study performed by Danforth observed no significant difference in the number of males and females from the 1:1 sex ratio.\n\nSpending equal amounts of resources to produce offspring of either sex is an evolutionarily stable strategy: if the general population deviates from this equilibrium by favoring one sex, one can obtain higher reproductive success with less effort by producing more of the other. For species where the cost of successfully raising one offspring is roughly the same regardless of its sex, this translates to an approximately equal sex ratio.\n\nBacteria of the genus \"Wolbachia\" cause skewed sex ratios in some arthropod species as they kill males. Sex-ratio of adult populations of pelagic copepods is usually skewed towards dominance of females. However, there are differences in adult sex ratios between families: in families in which females require multiple matings to keep producing eggs, sex ratios are less biased (close to 1); in families in which females can produce eggs continuously after only one mating, sex ratios are strongly skewed towards females.\n\nSeveral species of reptiles have temperature-dependent sex determination, where incubation temperature of eggs determines the sex of the individual. In the American alligator, for example, females are hatched from eggs incubated between , whereas males are hatched from eggs . In this method, however, all eggs in a clutch (20–50) will be of the same sex. In fact, the natural sex ratio of this species is five females to one male.\n\nIn birds, mothers can influence the sex of their chicks. In peafowl, maternal body condition can influence the proportion of daughters in the range from 25% to 87%.\n\nIn several different groups of fish, such as wrasses, parrotfish and clownfish, dichogamy — or sequential hermaphoditism — is normal. This can cause a discrepancy in the sex ratios as well. In the bluestreak cleaner wrasse, there is only one male for every group of 6-8 females. If the male fish dies, the strongest female changes its sex to become the male for the group. All of these wrasse are born female, and only become male in this situation. Other species, like clownfish, do this in reverse, where all start out as non-reproductive males, and the largest male becomes a female, with the second-largest male maturing to become reproductive.\n\nTraditionally, farmers have discovered that the most economically efficient community of animals will have a large number of females and a very small number of males. A herd of cows with a few bulls or a flock of hens with one rooster are the most economical sex ratios for domesticated livestock.\n\nIt was found that the amount of fertilizing pollen can influence secondary sex ratio in dioecious plants. Increase in pollen amount leads to decrease in number of male plants in the progeny. This relationship was confirmed on four plant species from three families – \"Rumex acetosa\" (\"Polygonaceae\"), \"Melandrium album\" (\"Cariophyllaceae\"), \"Cannabis sativa\" and \"Humulus japonicus\" (\"Cannabinaceae\").\n\nIn charadriiform birds, recent research has shown clearly that polyandry and sex-role reversal (where males care and females compete for mates) as found in phalaropes, jacanas, painted snipe and a few plover species is clearly related to a strongly male-biased adult sex ratio. Those species with male care and polyandry invariably have adult sex ratios with a large surplus of males, which in some cases can reach as high as six males per female.\n\nMale-biased adult sex ratios have also been shown to correlate with cooperative breeding in mammals such as alpine marmots and wild canids. This correlation may also apply to cooperatively breeding birds, though the evidence is less clear. It is known, however, that both male-biased adult sex ratios and cooperative breeding tend to evolve where caring for offspring is extremely difficult due to low secondary productivity, as in Australia and Southern Africa. It is also known that in cooperative breeders where both sexes are philopatric like the varied sittella, adult sex ratios are equally or more male-biased than in those cooperative species, such as fairy-wrens, treecreepers and the noisy miner where females always disperse.\n\n\nHumans:\nInstitutions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3062837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3062837", "title": "Sexual ethics", "text": "Sexual ethics\n\nSexual ethics or sex ethics (also called sexual morality) is the study of human sexuality and the expression of human sexual behavior. Sexual ethics seeks to understand and evaluate the moral conduct of interpersonal relationships and sexual activities from social, cultural, and philosophical perspectives. Historically, the prevailing notions of what was deemed as sexually ethical has been tied to religious values. Sexual ethics involve issues, such as gender identification, sexual orientation, consent, sexual relations, and procreation.\n\nThe terms \"ethics\" and \"morality\" are often used interchangeably, but sometimes \"ethics\" is reserved for interpersonal interactions and \"morality\" is used to cover both interpersonal and inherent questions.\n\nHowever, not all approaches to applied ethics agree that there \"is\" an inherent morality:\n\nIn philosophic terminology, hedonism is the idea that the only intrinsic good is pleasure, making selfish pleasures their primary goal. This may be combined with nihilism in a selfish morality, or with utilitarianism to seek maximization of happiness for everyone. Some religions derive a normative sexual ethics from their texts or teachings, and these range from nihilistic utilitarianism to more complex, fixed systems for determining right and wrong.\n\nMany practical questions arise regarding human sexuality, such as whether sexual norms should be enforced by law, given social approval, or changed. Answers to these questions can be considered on a scale from social liberalism to social conservatism. Considerable controversy continues over which system of ethics or morality best promotes human happiness, and which, if any, is inherently right.\n\nFlirting can be an expression of sexuality and a common form of social interaction whereby one person obliquely indicates a romantic and/or sexual interest towards another. However, flirting undertaken for amusement, with no intention of developing any further relationship, poses ethical dilemmas and sometimes faces disapproval from others, either because it can be misinterpreted as more serious, or it may be viewed as \"cheating\" if the person flirting is already in a romantic relationship with someone else; or if the person to whom flirting is directed is in an exclusive or a serious relationship. Flirting between individuals happens for a variety of reasons including the desire to interact sexually. Similarly, when an individual chooses not to engage in flirtation with another, it may reflect the lack of sexual desire or may reflect a lack of desire to flirt for other reasons.\n\nFrom a human rights and international law perspective, consent is a key issue in sexual ethics. Nevertheless, historically, this has not necessarily been the case. Throughout history, a whole range of consensual sexual acts, such as adultery, fornication, interracial or interfaith sex, 'sodomy' (see sodomy laws) have been prohibited; while at the same time various forced sexual encounters such as rape of a slave, prostitute, war enemy, and most notably of a spouse, were not illegal. The criminalization of marital rape is very recent, having occurred during the past few decades, and the act is still legal in many places around the world. Outside the West, in many countries consent is still not central. For instance, adultery and homosexual acts remain illegal in many countries; and in five countries and in parts of two others, homosexual acts carry the death penalty.\n\nAlmost all modern systems of ethics insist that sexual activity is morally permissible only if all participants consent. Sexual ethics also considers whether a person is capable of giving consent and the sort of acts they can consent to. In western countries, the legal concept of \"informed consent\" often sets the public standards on this issue. Children, the mentally handicapped, the mentally ill, animals, prisoners, and people under the influence of drugs like alcohol might be considered in certain situations as lacking an ability to give an informed consent. In the United States, \"Maouloud Baby v. State\" is a state court case ruling that a person can withdraw sexual consent and that continuing sexual activity in the absence of consent may constitute rape. Also, if infected with a sexually transmitted disease, it is important that one notifies the partner before sexual contact.\n\nSexual acts which are illegal, and often considered unethical, because of the absence of consent include rape and molestation. Enthusiastic consent, as expressed in the slogan \"Yes means yes,\" is typically the focus of liberal sexual ethics, rather than marriage. Under that view passivity, not saying \"No,\" is not consent. An individual can give consent for one act of sexual activity, however, it does not condone preceding into other acts of sexual activity without reestablishing consent.\n\nAge of consent is also a key issue in sexual ethics. It is a controversial question of whether or not minors should be allowed to have sex for recreation or engage in sexual activities such as sexting. The debate includes whether or not minors can meaningfully consent to have sex with each other, and whether they can meaningfully consent to have sex with adults. In many places in the world, people are not legally allowed to have sex until they reach a set age. The age of consent averages around the age of 16. It is often debated whether or not people under the age of consent are capable of having consensual sexual relationships.\n\nFeminists aim to redefine feminine sexuality in this world. The primary concern of feminists is that a woman should have the right to control her own sexuality. The woman's freedom of choice, regarding her sexuality, takes precedence over family, community, state, and church. Based on historical and cultural context, feminist views on sexuality has widely varied. Sexual representation in the media, the sex industry, and issues concerning consent to sex under conditions of male dominance are controversial topics among feminists. The debate resulting from the divergence of feminist attitudes culminated in the late 1970s and the 1980s. Parts of the feminist movement were deeply divided by these debates, which came to be known as the feminist sex wars. The feminist sex wars pitted anti-pornography feminism against sex-positive feminism.\n\nIn all cultures, consensual sexual intercourse is acceptable within marriage. In some cultures sexual intercourse outside marriage is controversial, if not totally unacceptable, or even illegal. In some countries, such as Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Kuwait, Maldives, Morocco, Oman, Mauritania, United Arab Emirates, Sudan, Yemen, any form of sexual activity outside marriage is illegal.\n\nAs the philosopher Michel Foucault has noted, such societies often create spaces or heterotopias outside themselves where sex outside marriage can be practiced. According to his theory, this was the reason for the often unusual sexual ethics displayed by persons living in brothels, asylums, onboard ships, or in prisons. Sexual expression was freed of social controls in such places whereas, within society, sexuality has been controlled through the institution of marriage which socially sanctions the sex act. Many different types of marriage exist, but in most cultures that practice marriage, extramarital sex without the approval of the partner is often considered to be unethical. There are a number of complex issues that fall under the category of marriage.\n\nWhen one member of a marital union has sexual intercourse with another person without the consent of their spouse, it may be considered to be infidelity. In some cultures, this act may be considered ethical if the spouse consents, or acceptable as long as the partner is not married while other cultures might view any sexual intercourse outside marriage as unethical, with or without consent.\n\nFurthermore, the institution of marriage brings up the issue of premarital sex wherein people who may choose to at some point in their lives marry, engage in sexual activity with partners who they may or may not marry. Various cultures have different attitudes about the ethics of such behavior, some condemning it while others view it to be normal and acceptable.\n\nPremarital sex is sexual activity between two people who are not married to each other. Usually, both parties are unmarried. This might be objected to on religious or moral grounds, while individual views within a given society can vary greatly.\nIn recent decades, premarital sex has increasingly become a socially and morally acceptable practice among Western cultures.\n\nExtramarital sex is sex occurring outside marriage, usually referring to when a married person engages in sexual activity with someone other than their marriage partner. Commonly there are moral as well as religious objections to sexual relationships by a married person outside the marriage, and such activity is often referred to in law or religion as adultery. Others call it infidelity or \"cheating\".\n\nIn contrast, there are some cultures, groups or individual relationships in which extramarital sex is an accepted norm. In today's western cultures some people practice \"polyamory\", otherwise known as responsible non-monogamy, or \"open marriage\". The ethical practice of this necessitates honest dialogue and consent of all those involved.\n\nMost societies disapprove of a person in a position of power to engage in sexual activity with a subordinate. This is often considered unethical simply as a breach of trust. When the person takes advantage of a position of power in the workplace, this may constitute sexual harassment, because subordinates may be unable to give proper consent to a sexual advance because of a fear of repercussions.\n\nChild-parent incest is also seen as an abuse of a position of trust and power, in addition to the inability of a child to give consent. Incest between adults may not involve this lack of consent, and is, therefore, less clear-cut for most observers. Many professional organizations have rules forbidding sexual relations between members and their clients. Examples in many countries include psychiatrists, psychologists, therapists, doctors, and lawyers. In addition, laws exist against this kind of abuse of power by priests, preachers, teachers, religious counselors, and coaches.\n\nVarious sexual acts are traded for money or other goods across the world. Ethical positions on sex work may depend on the type of sex act traded and the conditions in which it is traded, there are for example additional ethical concerns over the abrogation of autonomy in the situation of trafficked sex workers.\n\nSex work has been a particularity divisive issue within feminism. Some feminists may regard sex work as an example of societal oppression of the sex workers by the patriarchy. The ethical argument underlying this position is that despite the apparent consent of the sex worker, the choice to engage in sex work is often not an autonomous choice, because of economic, familial or societal pressures. Sex work may also be seen as an objectification of women. An opposing view held by other feminists such as Wendy McElroy is that sex work is a means of empowering women, the argument here being that in sex work women are able to extract psychological and financial power over men which is a justified correction of the power unbalance inherent in a patriarchal society. Some feminists regard to sex work as simply a form of labor which is neither morally good or bad, but subject to the same difficulties of other labor forms.\n\nIf sex work is accepted as unethical, there is then the dispute over which parties of the contract are responsible for the ethical or legal breach. Traditionally, in many societies, the legal and ethical burden of guilt has been placed largely on the sex worker rather than consumers. In recent decades, some countries such as Sweden, Norway and Iceland have rewritten their laws to outlaw the buying of sexual services but not its sale (although they still retain laws and use enforcement tactics which sex workers say are deleterious to their safety, such as pressuring to have sex workers evicted from their residences).\n\nThere are three different approaches to gender identity and sexuality. These three different approaches are the \"person-centered\", \"rights-based\", and \"deconstructive\" which draws on ideas from \"Queer Theory.\" \"Queer Theory\" is a book that discusses different sexuality categories of 'woman', 'man', 'lesbian', and 'heterosexual' based on the opinions of Judith Butler, Steven Epstein, Steven Seidman, and Michael Warner. The debate between sexuality being predetermined and developed throughout a person's life is further talked about. Despite the opinions of these commenters, we can talk about the two different opinions about sexuality. One opinion is that sexuality is something someone is born with and will not be changed. Someone may choose to suppress their sexuality or behave differently from it due to their family or society. The other opinion is that sexuality is developed based on someone's environment and sexual relationships. See also queer theory.\n\nIn ancient Athens, sexual attraction between men was the norm. In the Levant, however, persons who committed homosexual acts were stoned to death at the same period in history that young Alcibiades attempted to seduce Socrates to glean wisdom from him. As presented by Plato in his Symposium, Socrates did not \"daily\" with young Alcibiades, and instead treated him as his father or brother would when they spent the night sharing a blanket. And in Xenophon's Symposium Socrates strongly speaks against men kissing each other, saying that doing so will make them slavish, i.e., risk something that seems akin to an addiction to homosexual acts.\n\nAlthough there has been a lot of debate regarding homosexuality, there is evidence that supports the notion that individuals are born with their sexual orientation. There was a study in 1991 that showed the hypothalamus of a gay man differed with that of a straight man. Also there is however a debate that environmental aspects impact the sexuality of individuals.\n\nMost modern secular ethicists since the heyday of Utilitarianism, e.g. T.M. Scanlon and Bernard Williams, have constructed systems of ethics whereby homosexuality is a matter of individual choice and where ethical questions have been answered by an appeal to non-interference in activities involving consenting adults. However, Scanlon's system, notably, goes in a slightly different direction from this and requires that no person who meets certain criteria could rationally reject a principle that either sanctions or condemns a certain act. Under Scanlon's system, it is difficult to see how one would construct a principle condemning homosexuality outright, although certain acts, such as homosexual rape, would still be fairly straightforward cases of unethical behavior.\n\nMany cultures consider ethics to be intertwined with religious faith. Along with all those activities listed above, some acts that might be considered ethical or unethical from a religious standpoint:\n\nIn countries where public health is considered a public concern, there is also the issue of how sex impacts the health of individuals. In such circumstances, where there are health impacts resulting from certain sexual activities, there is the question of whether individuals have an ethical responsibility to the public at large for their behavior. Such concerns might involve the regular periodic testing for sexually transmitted diseases, disclosure of infection with sexually transmitted diseases, responsibility for taking safer sex precautions, ethics of sex without using contraception, leading to an increased level of unplanned pregnancies and unwanted children, and just what amount of personal care an individual needs to take in order to meet his or her requisite contribution to the general health of a nation's citizens.\n\nLegal and social dress codes are often related to sexuality. In the United States, there are many rules against nudity. An individual cannot be naked even on their own property if the public can see them. These laws are often considered a violation to the constitution regarding freedom of expression. It is said that common sense needs to be used when deciding whether or not nudity is appropriate. However, in Hawaii, Texas, New York, Maine, and Ohio allow all women to go topless at all locations that let men be shirtless. In California it is not illegal to hike in the nude, however it is frowned upon. Also in state parks it is legal to sunbathe in the nude unless a private citizen complains then you are to be removed from the premise by force if the individual doesn't comply. Breastfeeding in public is considered wrong and mothers are encouraged to either cover themselves in a blanket or go to the restroom to breastfeed their newborn. There are no actual laws that prohibit the action of breastfeeding in public except two places in Illinois and Missouri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47471180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47471180", "title": "Slavery in ancient Greece", "text": "Slavery in ancient Greece\n\nSlavery was a common practice in ancient Greece, as in other societies of the time. Some Ancient Greek writers (including, most notably, Aristotle) considered slavery natural and even necessary. This paradigm was notably questioned in Socratic dialogues; the Stoics produced the first recorded condemnation of slavery.\n\nMost activities were open to slaves except politics, which was reserved for citizens. The principal use of slaves was in agriculture, but hundreds of slaves were also used in stone quarries or mines, and perhaps two per household were domestic servants. It is certain that Athens had the largest slave population, with as many as 80,000 in the 6th and 5th centuries BC, with average of three or four slaves per household, except in poor families.\n\nModern historiographical practice distinguishes between chattel slavery (personal possession, where the slave was regarded as a piece of property as opposed to a mobile member of society) versus land-bonded groups such as the penestae of Thessaly or the Spartan helots, who were more like medieval serfs (an enhancement to real estate). The chattel helot is an individual deprived of liberty and forced to submit to an owner, who may buy, sell, or lease them like any other chattel.\n\nThe academic study of slavery in ancient Greece is beset by significant methodological problems. Documentation is disjointed and very fragmented, focusing primarily on the city-state of Athens. No treatises are specifically devoted to the subject, and jurisprudence was interested in slavery only as much as it provided a source of revenue. Greek comedies and tragedies represented stereotypes, while iconography made no substantial differentiation between slaves and craftsmen.\n\nThe ancient Greeks had several words to indicate slaves, which leads to textual ambiguity when they are studied out of their proper context. In Homer, Hesiod and Theognis of Megara, the slave was called (\"dmōs\"). The term has a general meaning but refers particularly to war prisoners taken as booty (in other words, property). During the classical period, the Greeks frequently used (\"andrapodon\"), (literally, \"one with the feet of a man\") as opposed to (\"tetrapodon\"), \"quadruped\" or livestock. The most common word for slaves is (\"doulos\"), used in opposition to \"free man\" (, \"eleútheros\"); an earlier form of the former appears in Mycenaean inscriptions as \"do-e-ro\", \"male slave\" (or \"servant\", \"bondman\"; Linear B: ), or \"do-e-ra\", \"female slave\" (or \"maid-servant\", \"bondwoman\"). The verb (which survives in Modern Greek, meaning \"work\") can be used metaphorically for other forms of dominion, as of one city over another or parents over their children. Finally, the term (\"oiketēs\") was used, as meaning \"one who lives in house\", referring to household servants.\nOther terms used to indicate slaves were less precise and required context: \n\nSlaves were present through the Mycenaean civilization, as documented in numerous tablets unearthed in Pylos 140. Two legal categories can be distinguished: \"slaves (εοιο)\" and \"slaves of the god (θεοιο)\", the god in this case probably being Poseidon. Slaves of the god are always mentioned by name and own their own land; their legal status is close to that of freemen. The nature and origin of their bond to the divinity is unclear. The names of common slaves show that some of them came from Kythera, Chios, Lemnos or Halicarnassus and were probably enslaved as a result of piracy. The tablets indicate that unions between slaves and freemen were common and that slaves could work and own land. It appears that the major division in Mycenaean civilization was not between a free individual and a slave but rather if the individual was in the palace or not.\nThere is no continuity between the Mycenaean era and the time of Homer, where social structures reflected those of the Greek dark ages. The terminology differs: the slave is no longer \"do-e-ro\" (doulos) but \"dmōs\". In the Iliad, slaves are mainly women taken as booty of war, while men were either ransomed or killed on the battlefield. In the \"Odyssey\", the slaves also seem to be mostly women. These slaves were servants and sometimes concubines. There were some male slaves, especially in the \"Odyssey\", a prime example being the swineherd Eumaeus. The slave was distinctive in being a member of the core part of the \"oikos\" (\"family unit\", \"household\"): Laertes eats and drinks with his servants; in the winter, he sleeps in their company. The term \"dmōs\" is not considered pejorative, and Eumaeus, the \"divine\" swineherd, bears the same Homeric epithet as the Greek heroes. Slavery remained, however, a disgrace. Eumaeus himself declares, \"Zeus, of the far-borne voice, takes away the half of a man's virtue, when the day of slavery comes upon him\".\nIt is difficult to determine when slave trading began in the archaic period. In \"Works and Days\" (8th century BC), Hesiod owns numerous \"dmōes\" although their status is unclear. The presence of \"douloi\" is confirmed by lyric poets such as Archilochus or Theognis of Megara. According to epigraphic evidence, the homicide law of Draco (c. 620 BC) mentioned slaves. According to Plutarch, Solon (c. 594-593 BC) forbade slaves from practising gymnastics and pederasty. By the end of the period, references become more common. Slavery becomes prevalent at the very moment when Solon establishes the basis for Athenian democracy. Classical scholar Moses Finley likewise remarks that Chios, which, according to Theopompus, was the first city to organize a slave trade, also enjoyed an early democratic process (in the 6th century BC). He concludes that \"one aspect of Greek history, in short, is the advance hand in hand, of freedom \"and\" slavery.\"\n\nAll activities were open to slaves with the exception of politics. For the Greeks, politics was the only occupation worthy of a citizen, the rest being relegated wherever possible to non-citizens. It was status that was of importance, not occupation.\nThe principal use of slavery was in agriculture, the foundation of the Greek economy. Some small landowners might own one slave, or even two. An abundant literature of manuals for landowners (such as the \"Economy\" of Xenophon or that of Pseudo-Aristotle) confirms the presence of dozens of slaves on the larger estates; they could be common labourers or foremen. The extent to which slaves were used as a labour force in farming is disputed. It is certain that rural slavery was very common in Athens, and that ancient Greece did not know of the immense slave populations found on the Roman \"latifundia\".\n\nSlave labour was prevalent in mines and quarries, which had large slave populations, often leased out by rich private citizens. The strategos Nicias leased a thousand slaves to the silver mines of Laurium in Attica; Hipponicos, 600; and Philomidès, 300. Xenophon indicates that they received one obolus per slave per day, amounting to 60 drachmas per year. This was one of the most prized investments for Athenians. The number of slaves working in the Laurium mines or in the mills processing ore has been estimated at 30,000. Xenophon suggested that the city buy a large number of slaves, up to three state slaves per citizen, so that their leasing would assure the upkeep of all the citizens.\nSlaves were also used as craftsmen and tradespersons. As in agriculture, they were used for labour that was beyond the capability of the family. The slave population was greatest in workshops: the shield factory of Lysias employed 120 slaves, and the father of Demosthenes owned 32 cutlers and 20 bedmakers.\n\nSlaves were also employed in the home. The domestic's main role was to stand in for his master at his trade and to accompany him on trips. In time of war he was batman to the hoplite. The female slave carried out domestic tasks, in particular bread baking and textile making. Only the poorest citizens did not possess a domestic slave.\n\nIt is difficult to estimate the number of slaves in ancient Greece, given the lack of a precise census and variations in definitions during that era. It is certain that Athens had the largest slave population, with as many as 80,000 in the 6th and 5th centuries BC, on average three or four slaves per household. In the 5th century BC, Thucydides remarked on the desertion of 20,890 slaves during the war of Decelea, mostly tradesmen. The lowest estimate, of 20,000 slaves, during the time of Demosthenes, corresponds to one slave per family. Between 317 BC and 307 BC, the tyrant Demetrius Phalereus ordered a general census of Attica, which arrived at the following figures: 21,000 citizens, 10,000 metics and 400,000 slaves. The orator Hypereides, in his \"Against Areistogiton\", recalls that the effort to enlist 15,000 male slaves of military age led to the defeat of the Southern Greeks at the Battle of Chaeronea (338 BC), which corresponds to the figures of Ctesicles.\n\nAccording to the literature, it appears that the majority of free Athenians owned at least one slave. Aristophanes, in \"Plutus\", portrays poor peasants who have several slaves; Aristotle defines a house as containing freemen and slaves. Conversely, not owning even one slave was a clear sign of poverty. In the celebrated discourse of Lysias \"For the Invalid\", a cripple pleading for a pension explains \"my income is very small and now I'm required to do these things myself and do not even have the means to purchase a slave who can do these things for me.\" However, the huge slave populations of the Romans were unknown in ancient Greece. When Athenaeus cites the case of Mnason, friend of Aristotle and owner of a thousand slaves, this appears to be exceptional. Plato, owner of five slaves at the time of his death, describes the very rich as owning 50 slaves.\nThucydides estimates that the isle of Chios had proportionally the largest number of slaves.\n\nThere were four primary sources of slaves: war, in which the defeated would become slaves to the victorious unless a more objective outcome was reached; piracy (at sea); banditry (on land); and international trade.\n\nBy the rules of war of the period, the victor possessed absolute rights over the vanquished, whether they were soldiers or not. Enslavement, while not systematic, was common practice. Thucydides recalls that 7,000 inhabitants of Hyccara in Sicily were taken prisoner by Nicias and sold for 120 talents in the neighbouring village of Catania. Likewise in 348 BC the population of Olynthus was reduced to slavery, as was that of Thebes in 335 BC by Alexander the Great and that of Mantineia by the Achaean League.\n\nThe existence of Greek slaves was a constant source of discomfort for free Greeks. The enslavement of cities was also a controversial practice. Some generals refused, such as the Spartans Agesilaus II and Callicratidas. Some cities passed accords to forbid the practice: in the middle of the 3rd century BC, Miletus agreed not to reduce any free Knossian to slavery, and vice versa. Conversely, the emancipation by ransom of a city that had been entirely reduced to slavery carried great prestige: Cassander, in 316 BC, restored Thebes. Before him, Philip II of Macedon enslaved and then emancipated Stageira.\n\nPiracy and banditry provided a significant and consistent supply of slaves, though the significance of this source varied according to era and region. Pirates and brigands would demand ransom whenever the status of their catch warranted it. Whenever ransom was not paid or not warranted, captives would be sold to a trafficker. In certain areas, piracy was practically a national specialty, described by Thucydides as \"the old-fashioned\" way of life. Such was the case in Acarnania, Crete, and Aetolia. Outside of Greece, this was also the case with Illyrians, Phoenicians, and Etruscans. During the Hellenistic period, Cilicians and the mountain peoples from the coasts of Anatolia could also be added to the list. Strabo explains the popularity of the practice among the Cilicians by its profitability; Delos, not far away, allowed for \"moving myriad slaves daily\". The growing influence of the Roman Republic, a large consumer of slaves, led to development of the market and an aggravation of piracy. In the 1st century BC, however, the Romans largely eradicated piracy to protect the Mediterranean trade routes.\n\nThere was slave trade between kingdoms and states of the wider region. The fragmentary list of slaves confiscated from the property of the mutilators of the \"Hermai\" mentions 32 slaves whose origins have been ascertained: 13 came from Thrace, 7 from Caria, and the others came from Cappadocia, Scythia, Phrygia, Lydia, Syria, Ilyria, Macedon and Peloponnese. Local professionals sold their own people to Greek slave merchants. The principal centres of the slave trade appear to have been Ephesus, Byzantium, and even faraway Tanais at the mouth of the Don. Some \"barbarian\" slaves were victims of war or localised piracy, but others were sold by their parents. There is a lack of direct evidence of slave traffic, but corroborating evidence exists. Firstly, certain nationalities are consistently and significantly represented in the slave population, such as the corps of Scythian archers employed by Athens as a police force—originally 300, but eventually nearly a thousand. Secondly, the names given to slaves in the comedies often had a geographical link; thus \"Thratta\", used by Aristophanes in \"The Wasps\", \"The Acharnians\", and \"Peace\", simply signified \"Thracian woman\". Finally, the nationality of a slave was a significant criterion for major purchasers; the ancient advice was not to concentrate too many slaves of the same origin in the same place, in order to limit the risk of revolt. It is also probable that, as with the Romans, certain nationalities were considered more productive as slaves than others.\nThe price of slaves varied in accordance with their ability. Xenophon valued a Laurion miner at 180 drachmas; while a workman at major works was paid one drachma per day. Demosthenes' father's cutlers were valued at 500 to 600 drachmas each. Price was also a function of the quantity of slaves available; in the 4th century BC they were abundant and it was thus a buyer's market. A tax on sale revenues was levied by the market cities. For instance, a large helot market was organized during the festivities at the temple of Apollo at Actium. The Acarnanian League, which was in charge of the logistics, received half of the tax proceeds, the other half going to the city of Anactorion, of which Actium was a part. Buyers enjoyed a guarantee against latent defects; the transaction could be invalidated if the bought slave turned out to be crippled and the buyer had not been warned about it.\n\nCuriously, it appears that the Greeks did not \"breed\" their slaves, at least during the Classical Era, though the proportion of houseborn slaves appears to have been rather large in Ptolemaic Egypt and in manumission inscriptions at Delphi. Sometimes the cause of this was natural; mines, for instance, were exclusively a male domain. On the other hand, there were many female domestic slaves. The example of African slaves in the American South on the other hand demonstrates that slave populations can multiply.\n\nXenophon advised that male and female slaves should be lodged separately, that \"…nor children born and bred by our domestics without our knowledge and consent—no unimportant matter, since, if the act of rearing children tends to make good servants still more loyally disposed, cohabiting but sharpens ingenuity for mischief in the bad.\" The explanation is perhaps economic; even a skilled slave was cheap, so it may have been cheaper to purchase a slave than to raise one. Additionally, childbirth placed the slave-mother's life at risk, and the baby was not guaranteed to survive to adulthood.\nHouseborn slaves (\"oikogeneis\") often constituted a privileged class. They were, for example, entrusted to take the children to school; they were \"pedagogues\" in the first sense of the term. Some of them were the offspring of the master of the house, but in most cities, notably Athens, a child inherited the status of its mother.\n\nThe Greeks had many degrees of enslavement. There was a multitude of categories, ranging from free citizen to chattel slave, and including Penestae or helots, disenfranchised citizens, freedmen, bastards, and metics. The common ground was the deprivation of civic rights.\nMoses Finley proposed a set of criteria for different degrees of enslavement:\n\nAthenian slaves were the property of their master (or of the state), who could dispose of them as he saw fit. He could give, sell, rent, or bequeath them. A slave could have a spouse and child, but the slave family was not recognized by the state, and the master could scatter the family members at any time. Slaves had fewer judicial rights than citizens and were represented by their master in all judicial proceedings. A misdemeanour that would result in a fine for the free man would result in a flogging for the slave; the ratio seems to have been one lash for one drachma. With several minor exceptions, the testimony of a slave was not admissible except under torture. Slaves were tortured in trials because they often remained loyal to their master. A famous example of a trusty slave was Themistocles's Persian slave Sicinnus (the counterpart of Ephialtes of Trachis), who, despite his Persian origin, betrayed Xerxes and helped Athenians in the Battle of Salamis. Despite torture in trials, the Athenian slave was protected in an indirect way: if he was mistreated, the master could initiate litigation for damages and interest ( / \"dikē blabēs\"). Conversely, a master who excessively mistreated a slave could be prosecuted by any citizen ( / \"graphē hybreōs\"); this was not enacted for the sake of the slave, but to avoid violent excess ( / \"hubris\").\n\nIsocrates claimed that \"not even the most worthless slave can be put to death without trial\"; the master's power over his slave was not absolute. Draco's law apparently punished with death the murder of a slave; the underlying principle was: \"was the crime such that, if it became more widespread, it would do serious harm to society?\" The suit that could be brought against a slave's killer was not a suit for damages, as would be the case for the killing of cattle, but a (\"dikē phonikē\"), demanding punishment for the religious pollution brought by the shedding of blood. In the 4th century BC, the suspect was judged by the Palladion, a court which had jurisdiction over unintentional homicide; the imposed penalty seems to have been more than a fine but less than death—maybe exile, as was the case in the murder of a Metic.\nHowever, slaves did belong to their master's household. A newly-bought slave was welcomed with nuts and fruits, just like a newly-wed wife. Slaves took part in most of the civic and family cults; they were expressly invited to join the banquet of the \"Choes\", second day of the Anthesteria, and were allowed initiation into the Eleusinian Mysteries. A slave could claim asylum in a temple or at an altar, just like a free man. The slaves shared the gods of their masters and could keep their own religious customs if any.\n\nSlaves could not own property, but their masters often let them save up to purchase their freedom, and records survive of slaves operating businesses by themselves, making only a fixed tax-payment to their masters. Athens also had a law forbidding the striking of slaves: if a person struck what appeared to be a slave in Athens, that person might find himself hitting a fellow-citizen, because many citizens dressed no better. It astonished other Greeks that Athenians tolerated back-chat from slaves. Athenian slaves fought together with Athenian freemen at the battle of Marathon, and the monuments memorialize them. It was formally decreed before the battle of Salamis that the citizens should \"save themselves, their women, children, and slaves\".\n\nSlaves had special sexual restrictions and obligations. For example, a slave could not engage free boys in pederastic relationships (\"\"A slave shall not be the lover of a free boy nor follow after him, or else he shall receive fifty blows of the public lash.\"), and they were forbidden from the palaestrae (\"A slave shall not take exercise or anoint himself in the wrestling-schools.\"\"). Both laws are attributed to Solon. Fathers wanting to protect their sons from unwanted advances provided them with a slave guard, called a \"paidagogos\", to escort the boy in his travels.\n\nThe sons of vanquished foes would be enslaved and often forced to work in male brothels, as in the case of Phaedo of Elis, who at the request of Socrates was bought and freed from such an enterprise by the philosopher's rich friends. On the other hand, it is attested in sources that the rape of slaves was prosecuted, at least occasionally.\n\nIn Gortyn, in Crete, according to a code engraved in stone dating to the 6th century BC, slaves (\"doulos\" or \"oikeus\") found themselves in a state of great dependence. Their children belonged to the master. The master was responsible for all their offences, and, inversely, he received amends for crimes committed against his slaves by others. In the Gortyn code, where all punishment was monetary, fines were doubled for slaves committing a misdemeanour or felony. Conversely, an offence committed against a slave was much less expensive than an offence committed against a free person. As an example, the rape of a free woman by a slave was punishable by a fine of 200 staters (400 drachms), while the rape of a non-virgin slave by another slave brought a fine of only one obolus (a sixth of a drachm).\n\nSlaves did have the right to possess a house and livestock, which could be transmitted to descendants, as could clothing and household furnishings. Their family was recognized by law: they could marry, divorce, write a testament and inherit just like free men.\n\nPrior to its interdiction by Solon, Athenians practiced debt enslavement: a citizen incapable of paying his debts became \"enslaved\" to the creditor. The exact nature of this dependency is a much controversial issue among modern historians: was it truly slavery or another form of bondage? However, this issue primarily concerned those peasants known as \"hektēmoroi\" working leased land belonging to rich landowners and unable to pay their rents. In theory, those so enslaved would be liberated when their original debts were repaid. The system was developed with variants throughout the Near East and is cited in the Bible.\nSolon put an end to it with the / \"seisachtheia\", liberation of debts, which prevented all claim to the person by the debtor and forbade the sale of free Athenians, including by themselves. Aristotle in his \"Constitution of the Athenians\" quotes one of Solon's poems: \nAnd many a man whom fraud or law had sold<br>\nFar from his god-built land, an outcast slave,<br>\nI brought again to Athens; yea, and some,<br>\nExiles from home through debt’s oppressive load,<br>\nSpeaking no more the dear Athenian tongue,<br>\nBut wandering far and wide, I brought again;<br>\nAnd those that here in vilest slavery (\"douleia\")<br>\nCrouched ‘neath a master’s (\"despōtes\") frown, I set them free. \nThough much of Solon's vocabulary is that of \"traditional\" slavery, servitude for debt was at least different in that the enslaved Athenian remained an Athenian, dependent on another Athenian, in his place of birth. It is this aspect which explains the great wave of discontent with slavery of the 6th century BC, which was not intended to free all slaves but only those enslaved by debt. The reforms of Solon left two exceptions: the guardian of an unmarried woman who had lost her virginity had the right to sell her as a slave, and a citizen could \"expose\" (abandon) unwanted newborn children.\n\nThe practice of manumission is confirmed to have existed in Chios from the 6th century BC. It probably dates back to an earlier period, as it was an oral procedure. Informal emancipations are also confirmed in the classical period. It was sufficient to have witnesses, who would escort the citizen to a public emancipation of his slave, either at the theatre or before a public tribunal. This practice was outlawed in Athens in the middle of the 6th century BC to avoid public disorder.\n\nThe practice became more common in the 4th century BC and gave rise to inscriptions in stone which have been recovered from shrines such as Delphi and Dodona. They primarily date to the 2nd and 1st centuries BC, and the 1st century AD. Collective manumission was possible; an example is known from the 2nd century BC in the island of Thasos. It probably took place during a period of war as a reward for the slaves' loyalty, but in most cases the documentation deals with a voluntary act on the part of the master (predominantly male, but in the Hellenistic period also female).\n\nThe slave was often required to pay for himself an amount at least equivalent to his street value. To this end they could use their savings or take a so-called \"friendly\" loan ( / \"eranos\") from their master, a friend or a client like the hetaera Neaira did.\n\nEmancipation was often of a religious nature, where the slave was considered to be \"sold\" to a deity, often Delphian Apollo, or was consecrated after his emancipation. The temple would receive a portion of the monetary transaction and would guarantee the contract. The manumission could also be entirely civil, in which case the magistrate played the role of the deity.\n\nThe slave's freedom could be either total or partial, at the master's whim. In the former, the emancipated slave was legally protected against all attempts at re-enslavement—for instance, on the part of the former master's inheritors. In the latter case, the emancipated slave could be liable to a number of obligations to the former master. The most restrictive contract was the \"paramone\", a type of enslavement of limited duration during which time the master retained practically absolute rights.\n\nIn regard to the city, the emancipated slave was far from equal to a citizen by birth. He was liable to all types of obligations, as one can see from the proposals of Plato in \"The Laws\": presentation three times monthly at the home of the former master, forbidden to become richer than him, etc. In fact, the status of emancipated slaves was similar to that of metics, the residing foreigners, who were free but did not enjoy a citizen's rights.\n\nSpartan citizens used helots, a dependent group collectively owned by the state. It is uncertain whether they had chattel slaves as well. There are mentions of people manumitted by Spartans, which was supposedly forbidden for helots, or sold outside of Lakonia: the poet Alcman; a Philoxenos from Cytherea, reputedly enslaved with all his fellow citizens when his city was conquered, later sold to an Athenian; a Spartan cook bought by Dionysius the Elder or by a king of Pontus, both versions being mentioned by Plutarch; and the famous Spartan nurses, much appreciated by Athenian parents.\n\nSome texts mention both slaves and helots, which seems to indicate that they were not the same thing. Plato in \"Alcibiades I\" cites \"the ownership of slaves, and notably helots\" among the Spartan riches, and Plutarch writes about \"slaves and helots\". Finally, according to Thucydides, the agreement that ended the 464 BC revolt of helots stated that any Messenian rebel who might hereafter be found within the Peloponnese was \"to be the slave of his captor\", which means that the ownership of chattel slaves was not illegal at that time.\n\nMost historians thus concur that chattel slaves were indeed used in the Greek city-state of Sparta, at least after the Lacedemonian victory of 404 BC against Athens, but not in great numbers and only among the upper classes. As was in the other Greek cities, chattel slaves could be purchased at the market or taken in war.\n\nIt is difficult to appreciate the condition of Greek slaves. According to Aristotle, the daily routine of slaves could be summed up in three words: \"work, discipline, and feeding\". Xenophon's advice is to treat slaves as domestic animals, that is to say punish disobedience and reward good behaviour. For his part, Aristotle prefers to see slaves treated as children and to use not only orders but also recommendations, as the slave is capable of understanding reasons when they are explained.\n\nGreek literature abounds with scenes of slaves being flogged; it was a means of forcing them to work, as were control of rations, clothing, and rest. This violence could be meted out by the master or the supervisor, who was possibly also a slave. Thus, at the beginning of Aristophanes' \"The Knights\" (4–5), two slaves complain of being \"bruised and thrashed without respite\" by their new supervisor. However, Aristophanes himself cites what is a typical old saw in ancient Greek comedy:\n\n\"He also dismissed those slaves who kept on running off, or deceiving someone, or getting whipped. They were always led out crying, so one of their fellow slaves could mock the bruises and ask then: 'Oh you poor miserable fellow, what's happened to your skin? Surely a huge army of lashes from a whip has fallen down on you and laid waste your back?'\"\nThe condition of slaves varied very much according to their status; the mine slaves of Laureion and the \"pornai\" (brothel prostitutes) lived a particularly brutal existence, while public slaves, craftsmen, tradesmen and bankers enjoyed relative independence. In return for a fee ( / \"apophora\") paid to their master, they could live and work alone. They could thus earn some money on the side, sometimes enough to purchase their freedom. Potential emancipation was indeed a powerful motivator, though the real scale of this is difficult to estimate.\n\nAncient writers considered that Attic slaves enjoyed a \"peculiarly happy lot\": Pseudo-Xenophon deplores the liberties taken by Athenian slaves: \"as for the slaves and Metics of Athens, they take the greatest licence; you cannot just strike them, and they do not step aside to give you free passage\". This alleged good treatment did not prevent 20,000 Athenian slaves from running away at the end of the Peloponnesian War at the incitement of the Spartan garrison at Attica in Decelea. These were principally skilled artisans (\"kheirotekhnai\"), probably among the better-treated slaves. The title of a 4th-century comedy by Antiphanes, \"The Runaway-catcher\" (), suggests that slave flight was not uncommon.\n\nConversely, there are no records of a large-scale Greek slave revolt comparable to that of Spartacus in Rome. It can probably be explained by the relative dispersion of Greek slaves, which would have prevented any large-scale planning. Slave revolts were rare, even in Rome. Individual acts of rebellion of slaves against their master, though scarce, are not unheard of; a judicial speech mentions the attempted murder of his master by a boy slave, not 12 years old.\n\nVery few authors of antiquity call slavery into question. To Homer and the pre-classical authors, slavery was an inevitable consequence of war. Heraclitus states that \"War is the father of all, the king of all ... he turns some into slaves and sets others free\". Aristotle also felt this way, stating \"the law by which whatever is taken in war is supposed to belong to the victors.\" He does also state that it might have a few issues though,”For what if the cause of war be unjust?” If the war was because of an unfair or incorrect reason, should the victors of that war be allowed to take the losers as slaves?\n\nDuring the classical period the main justification for slavery was economic. From a philosophical point of view, the idea of \"natural\" slavery emerged at the same time; thus, as Aeschylus states in \"The Persians\", the Greeks \"[o]f no man are they called the slaves or vassals\", while the Persians, as Euripides states in \"Helen\", \"are all slaves, except one\"—the Great King. Hippocrates theorizes about this latent idea at the end of the 5th century BC. According to him, the temperate climate of Anatolia produced a placid and submissive people. This explanation is reprised by Plato, then Aristotle in \"Politics\", where he develops the concept of \"natural slavery\": \"for he that can foresee with his mind is naturally ruler and naturally master, and he that can do these things with his body is subject and naturally a slave.\" As opposed to an animal, a slave can comprehend reason but \"…has not got the deliberative part at all.\"\n\nAlcidamas, at the same time as Aristotle, took the opposite view, saying: \"\"nature\" has made \"nobody\" a slave\".\n\nIn parallel, the concept that all men, whether Greek or barbarian, belonged to the same race was being developed by the Sophists and thus that certain men were slaves although they had the soul of a freeman and vice versa. Aristotle himself recognized this possibility and argued that slavery could not be imposed unless the master was better than the slave, in keeping with his theory of \"natural\" slavery. The Sophists concluded that true servitude was not a matter of status but a matter of spirit; thus, as Menander stated, \"be free in the mind, although you are slave: and thus you will no longer be a slave\". This idea, repeated by the Stoics and the Epicurians, was not so much an opposition to slavery as a trivialization of it.\nThe Greeks could not comprehend an absence of slaves. Slaves exist even in the \"Cloudcuckooland\" of Aristophanes' \"The Birds\" as well as in the ideal cities of Plato's \"Laws\" or \"Republic\". The utopian cities of Phaleas of Chalcedon and Hippodamus of Miletus are based on the equal distribution of property, but public slaves are used respectively as craftsmen and land workers. The \"reversed cities\" placed women in power or even saw the end of private property, as in \"Lysistrata\" or \"Assemblywomen\", but could not picture slaves in charge of masters. The only societies without slaves were those of the Golden Age, where all needs were met without anyone having to work. In this type of society, as explained by Plato, one reaped generously without sowing. In Telekleides' \"Amphictyons\" barley loaves fight with wheat loaves for the honor of being eaten by men. Moreover, objects move themselves—dough kneads itself, and the jug pours itself. Similarly, Aristotle said that slaves would not be necessary \"if every instrument could accomplish its own work... the shuttle would weave and the plectrum touch the lyre without a hand to guide them\", like the legendary constructs of Daedalus and Hephaestus. Society without slaves is thus relegated to a different time and space. In a \"normal\" society, one needs slaves. Aristotle argues that slaves are a necessity though, saying \"Property is part of the household, ... For no man can live well or indeed live at all, unless he be provided with necessaries.\" He also argues that slaves are the most important part of the property as they \"take precedence of all the instruments.\" This would suggest that at least some slaves would be treated well for the same reason one would take great care of their most important tools. By viewing slaves as tools of a household, it creates another reason for acceptance of slavery. Aristotle says \"indeed the use of slaves and of tame animals is not very different,\" showing as well that at least in part, some slaves were thought of no higher than the common tamed animals in use at the time. Antiphon viewed slaves as a bit more than common animals or tools. On the topic of a man killing his own slave, he says that the man should \"purify himself and withhold himself from those places prescribed by law, in the hope that by doing so he will best avoid disaster.\" This suggests that there still is some sense of inappropriateness in killing a slave, even one owned by the killer.\n\nPunishment of slaves would have been swift and harsh. Demosthenes viewed punishment for slaves as acceptable in the form of physical harm or injuries for all that they may have done wrong, stating \"the body of a slave is made responsible for all his misdeeds, whereas corporal punishment is the last penalty to inflict on a free man.\" This was spoken about in legal proceedings, suggesting that it would have been a widely accepted way of treating slaves.\n\nSlavery in Greek antiquity has long been an object of apologetic discourse among Christians, who are typically awarded the merit of its collapse. From the 16th century the discourse became moralizing in nature. The existence of colonial slavery had significant impact on the debate, with some authors lending it civilizing merits and others denouncing its misdeeds. Thus Henri-Alexandre Wallon in 1847 published a \"History of Slavery in Antiquity\" among his works for the abolition of slavery in the French colonies.\n\nIn the 19th century, a politico-economic discourse emerged. It concerned itself with distinguishing the phases in the organisation of human societies and correctly identifying the place of Greek slavery. The influence of Marx is decisive; for him the ancient society was characterized by development of private ownership and the dominant (and not secondary as in other pre-capitalist societies) character of slavery as a mode of production. The Positivists represented by the historian Eduard Meyer (\"Slavery in Antiquity\", 1898) were soon to oppose the Marxist theory. According to him slavery was the foundation of Greek democracy. It was thus a legal and social phenomenon, and not economic.\n\nCurrent historiography developed in the 20th century; led by authors such as Joseph Vogt, it saw in slavery the conditions for the development of elites. Conversely, the theory also demonstrates an opportunity for slaves to join the elite. Finally, Vogt estimates that modern society, founded on humanist values, has surpassed this level of development.\nIn 2011, Greek slavery remains the subject of historiographical debate, on two questions in particular: can it be said that ancient Greece was a \"slave society\", and did Greek slaves comprise a social class?\n\n</div>\n\nGeneral studies\n\nSpecific studies\n\n"}
{"id": "24963483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24963483", "title": "Sofia Kovalevskaya Award", "text": "Sofia Kovalevskaya Award\n\nThe Alexander von Humboldt Foundation of Germany bestows the Sofia Kovalevskaya Award every two years. Sofia Kovalevskaya (1850–1891) was the first major Russian female mathematician, who made important contributions to mathematical analysis, differential equations and mechanics, and the first woman appointed to a full professorship in Northern Europe. This prestigious award named in her honor is given to promising young academics to pursue their line of research in the sciences or arts and humanities. The foundation encourages applications from all areas of the academy so long as the investigator received a Ph.D. in the last six years and may be categorized as \"top flight\" by their publications and experience as commensurate with age.\n\nThere have been 59 awards since the inception of the Sofia Kovalevskaya Award in 2002. Individual awards may total up to 1.6 million Euro each. Funds are awarded to build and lead a team of researchers for a five-year period within a German host institution. The award is arguably one of the most prestigious and innovative awards in the world and is designed to foster long-term connections between Germany and world class young talent.\n"}
{"id": "39671663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39671663", "title": "Soviet Census (1959)", "text": "Soviet Census (1959)\n\nThe Soviet Census conducted in January 1959 was the first post-World War II census held in the Soviet Union. \n\nFor a decade after World War II, there were no new population statistics released by the Soviet Union, and a proposal for a new Soviet census for 1949 was rejected by Soviet leader Joseph Stalin. During this time, most Western experts estimated that the population of the Soviet Union was between 215 and 220 million people, but in June 1956 (after Stalin's death), the Soviet government announced that the country's population at that point was only 200,200,000.\n\nThe new census announced the Soviet Union's population to be 208,826,650, an increase of almost forty million from the results of the last (disputed) census from 1939. A majority of this population increase was due to the Soviet territorial expansion of the 1939-1945 time period, rather than due to natural population growth. The deficit of men to women in the total Soviet population massively increased between 1939 and 1959, perhaps at least in part due to World War II. The Soviet Union acquired some additional territories (after its 1939 census) in 1939–1945 in what is now Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, the Baltic states, Karelia, Tuva, and Kaliningrad Oblast. The Soviet Union was just 33% urban in 1939, but urbanized rapidly to become almost half (48%) urban in 1959. \n\nThe 1959 Soviet Union census reported populations in 126 nationality (ethnic group) categories, in comparison to only 97 categories in the 1939 census. Ethnic Russians still made up a majority of the Soviet population in 1959, but their percentage was smaller than in 1939 (again, partly due to the acquisition of mainly non-Russian territories in 1939–1945). Despite the acquisition of additional territories between these censuses, the Soviet Jewish population in 1959 (almost 2.3 million) was only about 75% of what it was in 1939, at least in large part due to the Holocaust. The populations of the Baltic Soviet Socialist Republics (which were heavily affected by World War II) did not change much between 1939 and 1959, with Lithuania actually experiencing a population decline during this time period. During the same time, the population of the Russian SFSR (which was heavily affected by World War II) increased by less than ten percent. The population increase in Ukraine and Belarus between 1939 and 1959 was completely or almost completely due to the Soviet territorial expansions of 1939-1940. Without these territorial expansions, Ukraine's population would have only barely increased and Belarus's population would have actually decreased between 1939 and 1959. The Central Asian and Caucasian Soviet Socialist Republics experienced large population increases between 1939 and 1959 despite the fact that they did not acquire any new territories during this time period.\n"}
{"id": "26407768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26407768", "title": "Swami Jnanananda", "text": "Swami Jnanananda\n\nSwami Jnanananda born as Bhupathiraju Lakshminarasimha Raju (December 5, 1896 - September 21, 1969) was an Indian Yogi and Nuclear Physicist.\n\nHe was born in a village in West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh on 5 December 1896. After primary schooling, he joined in the Taylor High School, Narsapuram. His father, Rama Raju, was interested in Vedic and scholarly pursuits. His large collection of books and scriptures gave his son an opportunity to study them at an early age. Swami Jnanananda was married by his father in 1916 but, inspired by the life of Gouthama Buddha, he renounced worldly pleasures and went to Lumbini, in Nepal. He has traveled many pilgrim centres in India for about 10 years.\n\nHe spent around 10 years in the Himalayas and practised Yoga and studied Vedic Literature. He went to Germany with an interest in Physics. He studied Mathematics and Physics at Dresden. He took up research in High Tension and X-Ray Physics at Charles University, Prague. He was christened as Swami Jnanananda by his guru, Swami Purnananda. He went to Germany in 1927 to deliver religious discourses and to get his religious works printed. His lectures attracted the attention of Prof. Dember at the Dresden University.\n\nThe Einstein's theory of relativity caught the attention of the swamiji. He requested Prof. Dember and successfully completed the undergraduate course in two years in 1929. He gave over 150 lectures on different subjects in yoga. His major work, `Purna Sutras', delivered in Germany were printed during this period.\n\nHe went to Czechoslovakia to work at the Charles University with Prof. Dolshek for about three years. His research at the university led to the development of precise methods in X-Ray spectroscopy for which he was awarded a D.Sc. in 1936.\n\nHe has shifted to England and joined University of Liverpool under Sir James Chadwick during the World War II. He has worked in Nuclear Physics, Spectroscopy of Beta Radiations and received his Ph.D. He continued his research on Beta Ray spectroscopy in the United States with a number of radioactive isotopes at the Michigan University. He completed his book on \"High Vacuum\".\n\nHe returned to India in 1947 and joined as senior scientific officer at the National Physics Laboratory in Delhi. He met with an accident at Bhimavaram in 1954 was admitted to the King George Hospital in Visakhapatnam. On the request of Vice-Chancellor of Andhra University, he joined the Physics Department for developing nuclear physics facilities in 1954. Nuclear Physics as a separate Department was started on July 1, 1956. He was promoted as Professor and Head of the Department. He continued in that position till 1965. The University authorities named the laboratory as \"Swami Jnanananda Laboratories of Nuclear Research\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5058177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5058177", "title": "Taranchi", "text": "Taranchi\n\nTaranchi is a term denoting the Muslim sedentary population living in oases around the Tarim Basin in today's Xinjiang, whose native language is Turkic Karluk, and whose ancestral heritages include Iranian and Tocharian populations of Tarim and the later Turkic peoples such as the Uyghurs, Karluks, Yaghmas, Chigils, Basmyls and lastly, the Mongolic tribes of the Chagatai Khanate.\n\nThe same name – which simply means 'a farmer' in Chagatai – can be extended to agrarian populations of the Ferghana Valley and oases of the entire Central Asian Turkestan. Although the Tarim Basin (with such oases as Kashgar, Kumul, Khotan and Turpan) is the agrarian Taranchis' traditional homeland, they have during the Qing period on China, migrated to regions that are now Urumqi and Ili. Many Taranchis were encouraged to settle in the Ili valley alongside sedentary Xibe garrisons and the nomadic Kyrgyz by the Qing military governors after the conquest of the Dzungars by the Chinese. In the multiethnic Muslim culture of Xinjiang, the term Taranchi is considered contradistinctive to Sart, which denotes towns dwelling traders and craftsmen. It of course excluded the ruling classes of the oases Muslim states, often called Moghol/Mughal or Dolan because of the Doglat Mongol origin of the Chagatay-Timurid dynasties. However, from a modern perspective, Taranchi, Sart and Moghol Dolans cannot be considered three distinctive ethnic groups, but rather three different classes or castes in the same cultural-linguistic zone that was Chagatay-Timurid.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the geopolitical Great Game between Russia and Great Britain resulted in the division of Central Asia among modern nation-states. All oases farmers native to Xinjiang became part of Uyghur nationality by 1934. While most Sarts of oases or Ili Valley towns became part of the Uyghur nationality, those with particularly strong ties to regions west of Xinjiang became Uzbeks. Sometimes such divisions are very arbitrary, because Kashgaris can be as distinctive from Turpanliks as they are from Andijanliks.\n\nThe Turkic Muslim sedentary people of the Tarim Basin were originally ruled by the Chagatai Khanate while the nomadic Buddhist Oirat Mongol in Dzungaria ruled over the Dzungar Khanate. The Naqshbandi Sufi Khojas, descendants of the Prophet Muhammad, had replaced the Chagatayid Khans as the ruling authority of the Tarim Basin in the early 17th century. There was a struggle between two factions of Khojas, the Afaqi (White Mountain) faction and the Ishaqi (Black Mountain) faction. The Ishaqi defeated the Afaqi, which resulted in the Afaq Khoja inviting the 5th Dalai Lama, the leader of the Tibetan Buddhists, to intervene on his behalf in 1677. The 5th Dalai Lama then called upon his Dzungar Buddhist followers in the Zunghar Khanate to act on this invitation. The Dzungar Khanate then conquered the Tarim Basin in 1680, setting up the Afaqi Khoja as their puppet ruler.\n\nKhoja Afaq asked the 5th Dalai Lama when he fled to Lhasa to help his Afaqi faction take control of the Tarim Basin (Kashgaria). The Dzungar leader Galdan was then asked by the Dalai Lama to restore Khoja Afaq as ruler of Kashgararia. Khoja Afaq collaborated with Galdan's Dzungars when the Dzungars conquered the Tarim Basin from 1678-1680 and set up the Afaqi Khojas as puppet client rulers. The Dalai Lama blessed Galdan's conquest of the Tarim Basin and Turfan Basin.\n\n67,000 patman (each patman is 4 piculs and 5 pecks) of grain 48,000 silver ounces were forced to be paid yearly by Kashgar to the Dzungars and cash was also paid by the rest of the cities to the Dzungars. Trade, milling, and distilling taxes, corvée labor,saffron, cotton, and grain were also extracted by the Dzungars from the Tarim Basin. Every harvest season, women and food had to be provided to Dzungars when they came to extract the taxes from them.\n\nWhen the Dzungars levied the traditional nomadic Alban poll tax upon the Muslims of Altishahr, the Muslims viewed it as the payment of jizyah (a tax traditionally taken from non-Muslims by Muslim conquerors).\n\nThe Turkic Muslims of the Turfan and Kumul Oases then submitted to the Qing dynasty of China, and asked China to free them from the Dzungars. The Qing accepted the rulers of Turfan and Kumul as Qing vassals. The Qing dynasty waged war against the Dzungars for decades until finally defeating them and then Qing Manchu Bannermen carried out the Zunghar genocide, nearly wiping them from existence and depopulating Dzungaria. The Qing then freed the Afaqi Khoja leader Burhan-ud-din and his brother Khoja Jihan from their imprisonment by the Dzungars, and appointed them to rule as Qing vassals over the Tarim Basin. The Khoja brothers decided to renege on this deal and declare themselves as independent leaders of the Tarim Basin. The Qing and the Turfan leader Emin Khoja crushed their revolt and China then took full control of both Dzungaria and the Tarim Basin by 1759.\n\nThe Qing dynasty conquered the Zunghar Khanate in 1759 and thereafter perpetrated wholesale massacres and the Zunghar Genocide on the native Dzungar Oirat Mongol population. The dynasty consolidated their authority by settling Han Chinese, Hui, and Taranchi (Uyghur) emigrants in the Dzungar (Zunghar) lands of Dzungaria, together with a Manchu Qing garrison of Bannermen. The Han, Hui, and Taranchi (Uyghurs) worked as farmers on state farms in the region to supply the Manchu garrison with food. The Qing put the whole region under the rule of a General of Ili , headquartered at the fort of Huiyuan (the so-called \"Manchu Kuldja\", or Yili), west of Ghulja (Yining). The Qing Qianlong Emperor conquered the Jungharian (Dzungarian) plateau and the Tarim Basin, bringing the two separate regions, respectively north and south of the Tian Shan mountains, under his rule as Xinjiang. The south was inhabited by Turkic Muslims (Uyghurs) and the north by Junghar Mongols (Dzungars). The Dzungars were also called \"Eleuths\" or \"Kalmyks\".\n\nXinjiang at this time did not exist as one unit. It consisted of the two separate political entities of Dzungaria and the Tarim Basin (Eastern Turkestan). There was the Zhunbu (Dzungar region) and Huibu (Muslim region). Dzungaria or Ili was called Zhunbu 準部 (Dzungar region) Tianshan Beilu 天山北路 (Northern March), \"Xinjiang\" 新疆 (New Frontier), Dzongarie, Djoongaria, Soungaria, or \"Kalmykia\" (La Kalmouquie in French). It was formerly the area of the Zunghar Khanate 準噶爾汗國, the land of the Dzungar Oirat Mongols. The Tarim Basin was known as \"Tianshan Nanlu 天山南路 (southern March), Huibu 回部 (Muslim region), Huijiang 回疆 (Muslim frontier), Chinese Turkestan, Kashgaria, Little Bukharia, East Turkestan\", and the traditional Uyghur name for it was Altishahr (). It was formerly the area of the Eastern Chagatai Khanate 東察合台汗國, land of the Uyghur people before being conquered by the Dzungars. The Chinese Repository said that \"Neither the natives nor the Chinese appear to have any general name to designate the Mohammedan colonies. They are called Kashgar, Bokhára, Chinese Turkestan, &c., by foreigners, none of which seem to be very appropriate. They have also been called Jagatai, after a son of Genghis khan, to whom this country fell as his portion after his father’s death, and be included all the eight Mohammedan cities, with some of the surrounding countries, in one kingdom. It is said to have remained in this family, with some interruptions, until conquered by the Eleuths of Soungaria in 1683.\"\n\nBetween Jiayu Guan's west and Urumchi's East, an area of Xiniiang was also designated the Tian Shan Eastern Circuit (). The three routes that made up Xinjiang were - Tarim Basin (southern route), Dzungaria (northern route), and the Turfan Basin (eastern route with Turfan, Hami, and Urumqi).\n\nThe Dzungar (or Zunghar), Oirat Mongols who lived in an area that stretched from the west end of the Great Wall of China to present-day eastern Kazakhstan and from present-day northern Kyrgyzstan to southern Siberia (most of which is located in present-day Xinjiang), were the last nomadic empire to threaten China, which they did from the early 17th century through the middle of the 18th century. After a series of inconclusive military conflicts that started in the 1680s, the Dzungars were subjugated by the Manchu-led Qing dynasty (1644–1911) in the late 1750s.\nClarke argued that the Qing campaign in 1757–58 \"amounted to the complete destruction of not only the Zunghar state but of the Zunghars as a people.\" After the Qianlong Emperor led Qing forces to victory over the Zunghar Oirat (Western) Mongols in 1755, he originally was going to split the Zunghar Empire into four tribes headed by four Khans, the Khoit tribe was to have the Zunghar leader Amursana as its Khan. Amursana rejected the Qing arrangement and rebelled since he wanted to be leader of a united Zunghar nation. Qianlong then issued his orders for the genocide and eradication of the entire Zunghar nation and name, Qing Manchu Bannermen and Khalkha (Eastern) Mongols enslaved Zunghar women and children while slaying the other Zunghars.\n\nThe Qianlong Emperor issued direct orders for his commanders to \"massacre\" the Zunghars and \"show no mercy\", rewards were given to those who carried out the extermination and orders were given for young men to be slaughtered while women were taken as spoils. The Qing extirpated Zunghar identity from the remaining enslaved Zunghar women and children. Orders were given to \"completely exterminate the Zunghar tribes, and this successful genocide by the Qing left Zungharia mostly unpopulated and vacant. Qianlong ordered his men to- \"Show no mercy at all to these rebels. Only the old and weak should be saved. Our previous campaigns were too lenient.\" The Qianlong Emperor did not see any conflict between performing genocide on the Zunghars while upholding the peaceful principles of Confucianism, supporting his position by portraying the Zunghars as barbarian and subhuman. Qianlong proclaimed that \"To sweep away barbarians is the way to bring stability to the interior.\", that the Zunghars \"turned their back on civilization.\", and that \"Heaven supported the emperor.\" in the destruction of the Zunghars. According to the \"Encyclopedia of genocide and crimes against humanity, Volume 3\", per the United Nations Genocide Convention Article II, Qianlong's actions against the Zunghars constitute genocide, as he massacred the vast majority of the Zunghar population and enslaved or banished the remainder, and had \"Zunghar culture\" extirpated and destroyed. Qianlong's campaign constituted the \"eighteenth-century genocide par excellence.\"\n\nThe Qianlong Emperor moved the remaining Zunghar people to China and ordered the generals to kill all the men in Barkol or Suzhou, and divided their wives and children to Qing soldiers. In an account of the war, Qing scholar Wei Yuan, wrote that about 40% of the Zunghar households were killed by smallpox, 20% fled to Russia or the Kazakh Khanate, and 30% were killed by the army, leaving no yurts in an area of several thousands of li except those of the surrendered. Clarke wrote 80%, or between 480,000 and 600,000 people, were killed between 1755 and 1758 in what \"amounted to the complete destruction of not only the Zunghar state but of the Zunghars as a people.\" 80% of the Zunghars died in the genocide. The Zunghar genocide was completed by a combination of a smallpox epidemic and the direct slaughter of Zunghars by Qing forces made out of Manchu Bannermen and (Khalkha) Mongols.\n\nIt was not until generations later that Dzungaria rebounded from the destruction and near liquidation of the Zunghars after the mass slayings of nearly a million Zunghars. Historian Peter Perdue has shown that the decimation of the Dzungars was the result of an explicit policy of extermination launched by Qianlong, Perdue attributed the decimation of the Dzungars to a \"deliberate use of massacre\" and has described it as an \"ethnic genocide\". Although this \"deliberate use of massacre\" has been largely ignored by modern scholars, Dr. Mark Levene, a historian whose recent research interests focus on genocide, has stated that the extermination of the Dzungars was \"arguably the eighteenth century genocide par excellence.\" The Dzungar (Zunghar) genocide has been compared to the Qing extermination of the Jinchuan Tibetan people in 1776.\n\nAnti-Zunghar Uyghur rebels from the Turfan and Hami oases had submitted to Qing rule as vassals and requested Qing help for overthrowing Zunghar rule. Uyghur leaders like Emin Khoja were granted titles within the Qing nobility, and these Uyghurs helped supply the Qing military forces during the anti-Zunghar campaign. The Qing employed Khoja Emin in its campaign against the Zunghars and used him as an intermediary with Muslims from the Tarim Basin to inform them that the Qing were only aiming to kill Oirats (Zunghars) and that they would leave the Muslims alone, and also to convince them to kill the Oirats (Zunghars) themselves and side with the Qing since the Qing noted the Muslims' resentment of their former experience under Zunghar rule at the hands of Tsewang Araptan.\n\nThe Qing identified their state as \"China\" (Zhongguo), and referred to it as \"Dulimbai Gurun\" in Manchu. The Qing equated the lands of the Qing state (including present day Manchuria, Dzungaria in Xinjiang, Mongolia, and other areas as \"China\") in both the Chinese and Manchu languages, defining China as a multi ethnic state. The Qianlong Emperor explicitly commemorated the Qing conquest of the Zunghars as having added new territory in Xinjiang to \"China\", defining China as a multi ethnic state, rejecting the idea that China only meant Han areas in \"China proper\", meaning that according to the Qing, both Han and non-Han peoples were part of \"China\", which included Xinjiang which the Qing conquered from the Zunghars. After the Qing were done conquering Dzungaria in 1759, they proclaimed that the new land which formerly belonged to the Zunghars, was now absorbed into \"China\" (Dulimbai Gurun) in a Manchu language memorial. The Qing expounded on their ideology that they were bringing together the \"outer\" non-Han Chinese like the Inner Mongols, Eastern Mongols, Oirat Mongols, and Tibetans together with the \"inner\" Han Chinese, into \"one family\" united in the Qing state, showing that the diverse subjects of the Qing were all part of one family, the Qing used the phrase \"Zhong Wai Yi Jia\" 中外一家 or \"Nei Wai Yi Jia\" 內外一家 (\"interior and exterior as one family\"), to convey this idea of \"unification\" of the different peoples. Xinjiang people were not allowed to be called foreigners (yi) under the Qing.\n\nThe Qianlong Emperor rejected earlier ideas that only Han could be subjects of China and only Han land could be considered as part of China, instead he redefined China as multiethnic, saying in 1755 that \"There exists a view of China (zhongxia), according to which non-Han people cannot become China's subjects and their land cannot be integrated into the territory of China. This does not represent our dynasty's understanding of China, but is instead that of the earlier Han, Tang, Song, and Ming dynasties.\" The Manchu Qianlong Emperor rejected the views of Han officials who said Xinjiang was not part of China and that he should not conquer it, putting forth the view that China was multiethnic and did not just refer to Han. Han migration to Xinjiang was permitted by the Manchu Qianlong Emperor, who also gave Chinese names to cities to replace their Mongol names, instituting civil service exams in the area, and implementing the county and prefecture Chinese style administrative system, and promoting Han migration to Xinjiang to solidify Qing control was supported by numerous Manchu officials under Qianlong. A proposal was written in \"The Imperial Gazetteer of the Western Regions\" (Xiyu tuzhi) to use state-funded schools to promote Confucianism among Muslims in Xinjiang by Fuheng and his team of Manchu officials and the Qianlong Emperor. Confucian names were given to towns and cities in Xinjiang by the Qianlong Emperor, like \"Dihua\" for Urumqi in 1760 and Changji, Fengqing, Fukang, Huifu, and Suilai for other cities in Xinjiang, Qianlong also implemented Chinese style prefectures, departments, and counties in a portion of the region.\n\nThe Qing Qianlong Emperor compared his achievements with that of the Han and Tang ventures into Central Asia. Qianlong's conquest of Xinjiang was driven by his mindfulness of the examples set by the Han and Tang Qing scholars who wrote the official Imperial Qing gazetteer for Xinjiang made frequent references to the Han and Tang era names of the region. The Qing conqueror of Xinjiang, Zhao Hui, is ranked for his achievements with the Tang dynasty General Gao Xianzhi and the Han dynasty Generals Ban Chao and Li Guangli. Both aspects of the Han and Tang models for ruling Xinjiang were adopted by the Qing and the Qing system also superficially resembled that of nomadic powers like the Qara Khitay, but in reality the Qing system was different from that of the nomads, both in terms of territory conquered geographically and their centralized administrative system, resembling a western stye (European and Russian) system of rule. The Qing portrayed their conquest of Xinjiang in officials works as a continuation and restoration of the Han and Tang accomplishments in the region, mentioning the previous achievements of those dynasties. The Qing justified their conquest by claiming that the Han and Tang era borders were being restored, and identifying the Han and Tang's grandeur and authority with the Qing. Many Manchu and Mongol Qing writers who wrote about Xinjiang did so in the Chinese language, from a culturally Chinese point of view. Han and Tang era stories about Xinjiang were recounted and ancient Chinese places names were reused and circulated. Han and Tang era records and accounts of Xinjiang were the only writings on the region available to Qing era Chinese in the 18th century and needed to be replaced with updated accounts by the literati.\n\nThe Qing \"final solution\" of genocide to solve the problem of the Dzungar people, made the Qing sponsored settlement of millions of Han Chinese, Hui, Turkestani Oasis people (Taranchi Uyghurs) and Manchu Bannermen in Dzungaria possible, since the land was now devoid of Dzungars. The Dzungarian basin, which used to be inhabited by (Zunghar) Mongols, is currently inhabited by Kazakhs. In northern Xinjiang, the Qing brought in Han, Hui, Uyghur, Xibe, and Kazakh colonists after they exterminated the Zunghar Oirat Mongols in the region, with one third of Xinjiang's total population consisting of Hui and Han in the northern are, while around two thirds were Uyghurs in southern Xinjiang's Tarim Basin. In Dzungaria, the Qing established new cities like Urumqi and Yining. The Qing were the ones who unified Xinjiang and changed its demographic situation.\n\nThe depopulation of northern Xinjiang after the Buddhist Öölöd Mongols (Dzungars) were slaughtered, led to the Qing settling Manchu, Sibo (Xibe), Daurs, Solons, Han Chinese, Hui Muslims, and Turkic Muslim Taranchis in the north, with Han Chinese and Hui migrants making up the greatest number of settlers. Since it was the crushing of the Buddhist Öölöd (Dzungars) by the Qing which led to promotion of Islam and the empowerment of the Muslim Begs in southern Xinjiang, and migration of Muslim Taranchis to northern Xinjiang, it was proposed by Henry Schwarz that \"the Qing victory was, in a certain sense, a victory for Islam\". Xinjiang as a unified, defined geographic identity was created and developed by the Qing. It was the Qing who led to Turkic Muslim power in the region increasing since the Mongol power was crushed by the Qing while Turkic Muslim culture and identity was tolerated or even promoted by the Qing.\n\nThe Qing gave the name Xinjiang to Dzungaria after conquering it and wiping out the Dzungars, reshaping it from a steppe grassland into farmland cultivated by Han Chinese farmers, 1 million mu (17,000 acres) were turned from grassland to farmland from 1760-1820 by the new colonies.\n\nAfter Qing dynasty defeated the Dzungar Oirat Mongols and exterminated them from their native land of Dzungaria in the genocide, the Qing settled Han, Hui, Manchus, Xibe, and Taranchis (Uyghurs) from the Tarim Basin, into Dzungaria. Han Chinese criminals and political exiles were exiled to Dzhungaria, such as Lin Zexu. Chinese Hui Muslims and Salar Muslims belonging to banned Sufi orders like the Jahriyya were also exiled to Dzhungaria as well. In the aftermath of the crushing of the 1781 Jahriyya rebellion, Jahriyya adherents were exiled.\n\nThe Qing enacted different policies for different areas of Xinjiang. Han and Hui migrants were urged by the Qing government to settled in Dzungaria in northern Xinjiang, while they were not allowed in southern Xinjiang's Tarim Basin oases with the exception of Han and Hui merchants. In areas where more Han Chinese settled like in Dzungaria, the Qing used a Chinese style administrative system.\n\nThe Manchu Qing ordered the settlement of thousands of Han Chinese peasants in Xinijiang after 1760, the peasants originally came from Gansu and were given animals, seeds, and tools as they were being settled in the area, for the purpose of making China's rule in the region permanent and a fait accompli.\n\nTaranchi was the name for Turki (Uyghur) agriculturalists who were resettled in Dzhungaria from the Tarim Basin oases (\"East Turkestani cities\") by the Qing dynasty, along with Manchus, Xibo (Xibe), Solons, Han and other ethnic groups in the aftermath of the destruction of the Dzhunghars. Kulja (Ghulja) was a key area subjected to the Qing settlement of these different ethnic groups into military colonies. The Manchu garrisons were supplied and supported with grain cultivated by the Han soldiers and East Turkestani (Uyghurs) who were resettled in agricultural colonies in Zungharia. The Manchu Qing policy of settling Chinese colonists and Taranchis from the Tarim Basin on the former Kalmucks (Dzungar) land was described as having the land \"swarmed\" with the settlers. The amount of Uyghurs moved by the Qing from Altä-shähär (Tarim Basin) to depopulated Zunghar land in Ili numbered around 10,000 families. The amount of Uyghurs moved by the Qing into Jungharia (Dzungaria) at this time has been described as \"large\". The Qing settled in Dzungaria even more Turki-Taranchi (Uyghurs) numbering around 12,000 families originating from Kashgar in the aftermath of the Jahangir Khoja invasion in the 1820s. Standard Uyghur is based on the Taranchi dialect, which was chosen by the Chinese government for this role. Salar migrants from Amdo (Qinghai) came to settle the region as religious exiles, migrants, and as soldiers enlisted in the Chinese army to fight in Ili, often following the Hui.\n\nAfter a revolt by the Xibe in Qiqihar in 1764, the Qianlong Emperor ordered an 800-man military escort to transfer 18,000 Xibe to the Ili valley of Dzungaria in Xinjiang. In Ili, the Xinjiang Xibe built Buddhist monasteries and cultivated vegetables, tobacco, and poppies. One punishment for Bannermen for their misdeeds involved them being exiled to Xinjiang.\n\nIn 1765, 300,000 ch'ing of land in Xinjiang were turned into military colonies, as Chinese settlement expanded to keep up with China's population growth.\n\nThe Qing resorted to incentives like issuing a subsidy which was paid to Han who were willing to migrate to northwest to Xinjiang, in a 1776 edict. There were very little Uyghurs in Urumqi during the Qing dynasty, Urumqi was mostly Han and Hui, and Han and Hui settlers were concentrated in Northern Xinjiang (Beilu aka Dzungaria). Around 155,000 Han and Hui lived in Xinjiang, mostly in Dzungaria around 1803, and around 320,000 Uyghurs, living mostly in Southern Xinjiang (the Tarim Basin), as Han and Hui were allowed to settle in Dzungaria but forbidden to settle in the Tarim, while the small amount of Uyghurs living in Dzungaria and Urumqi was insignificant. Hans were around one third of Xinjiang's population at 1800, during the time of the Qing Dynasty. Spirits (alcohol) were introduced during the settlement of northern Xinjiang by Han Chinese flooding into the area. The Qing made a special case in allowing northern Xinjiang to be settled by Han, since they usually did not allow frontier regions to be settled by Han migrants. This policy led to 200,000 Han and Hui settlers in northern Xinjiang when the 18th century came to a close, in addition to military colonies settled by Han called Bingtun.\n\nProfessor of Chinese and Central Asian History at Georgetown University, James A. Millward wrote that foreigners often mistakenly think that Urumqi was originally a Uyghur city and that the Chinese destroyed its Uyghur character and culture, however, Urumqi was founded as a Chinese city by Han and Hui (Tungans), and it is the Uyghurs who are new to the city.\n\nWhile a few people try to give a misportrayal of the historical Qing situation in light of the contemporary situation in Xinjiang with Han migration, and claim that the Qing settlements and state farms were an anti-Uyghur plot to replace them in their land, Professor James A. Millward pointed out that the Qing agricultural colonies in reality had nothing to do with Uyghur and their land, since the Qing banned settlement of Han in the Uyghur Tarim Basin and in fact directed the Han settlers instead to settle in the non-Uyghur Dzungaria and the new city of Urumqi, so that the state farms which were settled with 155,000 Han Chinese from 1760-1830 were all in Dzungaria and Urumqi, where there was only an insignificant amount of Uyghurs, instead of the Tarim Basin oases.\n\nHan and Hui merchants were initially only allowed to trade in the Tarim Basin, while Han and Hui settlement in the Tarim Basin was banned, until the Muhammad Yusuf Khoja invasion, in 1830 when the Qing rewarded the merchants for fighting off Khoja by allowing them to settle down. Robert Michell noted that as of 1870, there were many Chinese of all occupations living in Dzungaria and they were well settled in the area, while in Turkestan (Tarim Basin) there were only a few Chinese merchants and soldiers in several garrisons among the Muslim population.\n\nThe Oirat Mongol Kalmyk Khanate was founded in the 17th century with Tibetan Buddhism as its main religion, following the earlier migration of the Oirats from Zungharia through Central Asia to the steppe around the mouth of the Volga River. During the course of the 18th century, they were absorbed by the Russian Empire, which was then expanding to the south and east. The Russian Orthodox church pressured many Kalmyks to adopt Orthodoxy. In the winter of 1770–1771, about 300,000 Kalmyks set out to return to China. Their goal was to retake control of Zungharia from the Qing dynasty of China. Along the way many were attacked and killed by Kazakhs and Kyrgyz, their historical enemies based on intertribal competition for land, and many more died of starvation and disease. After several grueling months of travel, only one-third of the original group reached Zungharia and had no choice but to surrender to the Qing upon arrival. These Kalmyks became known as Oirat Torghut Mongols. After being settled in Qing territory, the Torghuts were coerced by the Qing into giving up their nomadic lifestyle and to take up sedentary agriculture instead as part of a deliberate policy by the Qing to enfeeble them. They proved to be incompetent farmers and they became destitute, selling their children into slavery, engaging in prostitution, and stealing, according to the Manchu Qi-yi-shi. Child slaves were in demand on the Central Asian slave market, and Torghut children were sold into this slave trade.\n\nThe Taranchi revolted against the Qing dynasty during the Dungan revolt. At first, they cooperated with the Dungans, but turned on them, massacring the Dungans at Kuldja and driving the rest through Talk pass to the Ili valley.\n\nIn 1884or, according to some sources, 1882the Qing dynasty established Xinjiang (\"new frontier\") as a province, formally applying to it the political systems of the rest of China and dropping the old names of Zhunbu 準部 (Dzungar region) and Huijiang, \"Muslimland.\"\n\nThe two separate regions, Dzungaria, known as Zhunbu 準部 (Dzungar region) or Tianshan Beilu 天山北路 (Northern March), and the Tarim Basin, which had been known as Altishahr, Huibu (Muslim region), Huijiang (Muslim-land) or \"Tianshan Nanlu 天山南路 (southern March), were combined into a single province called Xinjiang by in 1884. Before this, there was never one administrative unit in which North Xinjiang (Zhunbu) and Southern Xinjiang (Huibu) were integrated together.\n\nA lot of the Han Chinese and Chinese Hui Muslim population who had previously settled northern Xinjiang (Dzungaria) after the Qing genocide of the Dzungars, had died in the Dungan revolt (1862–77). As a result, new Uyghur colonists from Southern Xinjiang (the Tarim Basin) proceeded to settle in the newly empty lands and spread across all of Xinjiang.\n\nAfter Xinjiang was converted into a province by the Qing, the provincialisation and reconstruction programs initiated by the Qing resulted in the Chinese government helping Uyghurs migrate from southern Xinjiang to other areas of the province, like the area between Qitai and the capital, which was formerly nearly completely inhabited by Han Chinese, and other areas like Urumqi, Tacheng (Tabarghatai), Yili, Jinghe, Kur Kara Usu, Ruoqiang, Lop Nor, and the Tarim River's lower reaches. It was during Qing times that Uyghurs were settled throughout all of Xinjiang, from their original home cities in the western Tarim Basin. The Qing policies after they created Xinjiang by uniting Zungharia and Altishahr (Tarim Basin) led Uyghurs to believe that the all of Xinjiang province was their homeland, since the annihilation of the Zunghars (Dzungars) by the Qing, populating the Ili valley with Uyghurs from the Tarim Basin, creating one political unit with a single name (Xinjiang) out of the previously separate Zungharia and the Tarim Basin, the war from 1864-1878 which led to the killing of much of the original Han Chinese and Chinese Hui Muslims in Xinjiang, led to areas in Xinjiang with previously had insignificant amounts of Uyghurs, like the southeast, east, and north, to then become settled by Uyghurs who spread through all of Xinjiang from their original home in the southwest area. There was a major and fast growth of the Uyghur population, while the original population of Han Chinese and Hui Muslims from before the war of 155,000 dropped, to the much lower population of 33,114 Tungans (Hui) and 66,000 Han.\n\nA regionalist style nationalism was fostered by the Han Chinese officials who came to rule Xinjiang after its conversion into a province by the Qing, it was from this ideology that the later East Turkestani nationalists appropriated their sense of nationalism centered on Xinjiang as a clearly defined geographic territory.\n\nMongols have at times advocated for the historical Oirat Dzungar Mongol area of Dzungaria in northern Xinjiang, to be annexed to the Mongolian state in the name of Pan-Mongolism.\n\nLegends grew among the remaining Oirats that Amursana had not died after he fled to Russia, but was alive and would return to his people to liberate them from Manchu Qing rule and restore the Oirat nation. Prophecies had been circulating about the return of Amursana and the revival of the Oirats in the Altai region. The Oirat Kalmyk Ja Lama claimed to be a grandson of Amursana and then claimed to be a reincarnation of Amursana himself, preaching anti-Manchu propaganda in western Mongolia in the 1890s and calling for the overthrow of the Qing dynasty. Ja Lama was arrested and deported several times. However, he returned to the Oirat Torghuts in Altay (in Dzungaria) in 1910 and in 1912 he helped the Outer Mongolians mount an attack on the last Qing garrison at Kovd, where the Manchu Amban was refusing to leave and fighting the newly declared independent Mongolian state. The Manchu Qing force was defeated and slaughtered by the Mongols after Khovd fell.\n\nJa Lama told the Oirat remnants in Xinjiang: \"I am a mendicant monk from the Russian Tsar's kingdom, but I am born of the great Mongols. My herds are on the Volga river, my water source is the Irtysh. There are many hero warriors with me. I have many riches. Now I have come to meet with you beggars, you remnants of the Oirats, in the time when the war for power begins. Will you support the enemy? My homeland is Altai, Irtysh, Khobuk-sari, Emil, Bortala, Ili, and Alatai. This is the Oirat mother country. By descent, I am the great-grandson of Amursana, the reincarnation of Mahakala, owning the horse Maralbashi. I am he whom they call the hero Dambijantsan. I came to move my pastures back to my own land, to collect my subject households and bondservants, to give favour, and to move freely.\"\n\nJa Lama built an Oirat fiefdom centered on Kovd, he and fellow Oirats from Altai wanted to emulate the original Oirat empire and build another grand united Oirat nation from the nomads of western China and Mongolia, but was arrested by Russian Cossacks and deported in 1914 on the request of the Monglian government after the local Mongols complained of his excesses, and out of fear that he would create an Oirat separatist state and divide them from the Khalkha Mongols. Ja Lama returned in 1918 to Mongolia and resumed his activities and supported himself by extorting passing caravans, but was assassinated in 1922 on the orders of the new Communist Mongolian authorities under Damdin Sükhbaatar.\n\nThe part Buryat Momgol Transbaikalian Cossack Ataman Grigory Semyonov declared a \"Great Mongol State\" in 1918 and had designs to unify the Oirat Mongol lands, portions of Xinjiang, Transbaikal, Inner Mongolia, Outer Mongolia, Tannu Uriankhai, Khovd, Hu-lun-pei-erh and Tibet into one Mongolian state.\n\nThe Buryat Mongol Agvan Dorzhiev tried advocating for Oirat Mongol areas like Tarbagatai, Ili, and Altai to get added to the Outer Mongolian state. Out of concern that China would be provoked, this proposed addition of the Oirat Dzungaria to the new Outer Mongolian state was rejected by the Soviets.\n\nMany of the Turkic peoples of the Ili region of Xinjiang had close cultural, political, and economic ties with Russia and then the Soviet Union. Many of them were educated in the Soviet Union and a community of Russian settlers lived in the region. As a result, many of the Turkic rebels fled to the Soviet Union and obtained Soviet assistance in creating the Sinkiang Turkic People's Liberation Committee (STPNLC) in 1943 to revolt against Kuomintang rule during the Ili Rebellion. The pro-Soviet Uyghur who later became leader of the revolt and the Second East Turkestan Republic, Ehmetjan Qasim, was Soviet educated and described as \"Stalin's man\" and as a \"communist-minded progressive\".\n"}
{"id": "12537195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12537195", "title": "Ukrainians in Armenia", "text": "Ukrainians in Armenia\n\nThe Ukrainians in Armenia are people of full or partial ethnic Ukrainian origin who reside in Armenia.\n\nThe first Ukrainians in Armenia came in the mid 19th century after the migration to Transcaucasia by “the Cossacks from Minor Russia” to seal the Empire’s Southern borders. The main activity of the migrants was agriculture and livestock.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46454499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46454499", "title": "Yarahmadzai tribe", "text": "Yarahmadzai tribe\n\nThe Yarahmadzai (Shahnavazi) is a Baloch tribe from the Iranian Balochistan, the main population of the tribe is settled in an area called Sarhad in the city of Khash. The population of the Yarahmadzais are about 30,000 and they are divided into three big factions (Sohrabzai, Hossenzai and Rahmetzai).\n\nThe origin of the tribe is from the hills of Sibi (located in East Balochistan) the same place where Mir Chakar Khan Rind (The great Baloch king) comes from they migrated to the Sarhad plateau somewhere during the beginning of the 18th century and since then they have expanded, increased and becoming one of the most prominent and powerful tribes of Sarhad. Before the arrival of the Yarahmadzais the area (Taftan/khash) was organized and controlled by the Kurds. The Kurds were originally sent to the Sarhad of Baluchistan by Shah Abbas the great as a part of his policy of weakening dangerous baloch tribes by removing them from their local territories. As the Yarahmadzai tribe established themselves in Sarhad the tribe grew larger, and become more powerful and more ambitious they were a big threat to the hokomats (representatives of the rulers) established in Iranian/Baluchistan as well in south (Bampur) as north (Taftan/Khash). The Yarahmadzai unlike the other tribes (particularly in southern Baluchistan) never recognized the hakoms (governed as agents of the crown they received support and encouragement from the crown) of the hokomats as leaders to whom they would serve. Instead they established their own political leader, the Sardar who was a representative for the tribe, several disputes occurred between the Yarahmadzais and the Kurds which resulted in one time that the Kurds where driven out from Sarhad and they lost the control of the area to the Yarahmadzais.\n\nAccording to Percy Molesworth Sykes the Yarahmadzai became the most influential tribe under the notorious Sardar Jiand Khan of Sarhad where 50 families controlled over 1,000 families; next in importance were the Rekis who aggregate over 600 families. The major economic profit of the tribe was from predatory raiding of livestock, goods and slaves outside Sarhad, mostly from Kerman and Jiroft area.\n\nDuring World War I, the Yarahmadzais disturbed the lines of communication of the British frontier and raided their goods, this gave some concerns to the British forces and the fact that the Germans have through Turkish agents supplied the Sarhadi tribes with weapon and promised them that the Germans have converted to Islam in order to let the Sarhadi tribes show allegiance with them. The British knew that the Sarhad route was very important for their purpose and to keep the control over India. The mission to prevent the tribes from raiding fell on General Reginald Dyer. The three major tribes who performed raids and disturbed the British line were the Yarahmadzais, Gamshadzais and Ismaelzais even known as Damanis.\n\nAccording to Reginald Dyer he went to Sarhad with a small troop and he managed to keep the sarhadi tribes in line with account of campaign of arms and bluffs. Dyer used a lot of spies to obtain information about the movements of the Yarahmadzai tribe and their plans, one of the spies who Dyer was very proud over was Ido Khan Reki(Rigi) who contributed very well. \nJuma Khan the tribal chief of the Ismaelzais decided to surrender when he heard about the plans of Dyer, while Sardar Jiand Khan and Halil Khan (Chief of the Gamshadzai) decided to resist against the British forces. Several battles occurred between Dyer and the Damanis (Yarahmadzai, Gamshadzai) Jiand lost his son and Gamshadzais chief (Khalil Khan) got killed during one of the battles.\n\nIn a documentary that was made about baloch tribes and sardars, the late tribal leader Sardar Khan Mohammad recounts from what he has been told about what happened during one of the last battles his tribe had against the British.\n\nHe tells about when Jiand khan and his son got arrested and they (British garrison) were on their march to Quetta to bring them (the hostage) into captivity when they suddenly got ambushed by the Yarahmadzais and Gamshadzais in an area called Nalak (a narrow passage nearby Khash). They managed to free them and in the battle two of the yarahmadzais lost their life’s while the losses for Dyer was devastating. Dyer himself was not present in the battle but after what happened he never showed up in sarhad. He never mentioned the battle of Nalak in his book instead he wrote about how they have succeeded and weakened the sarhadi tribes and that an agreement was reached with the Yarahmadzais and Gamshadzai after that the two tribes sent letters to Dyer to allow them returning to their home.\n\nThe story about what happened during Dyers campaign lacks credibility in Sarhad, that was one of the reasons that Abdol Hossein Yadegari an baloch intellectual (he died in an accident 2006) decided to make a research about what really happened in Dyers Campaign.\nAbdol Hossein Yadegari translated Dyers book with additional comments based on his research, his work was published posthumously in Persian.\n\nNot much record exist what Sarhad was after Dyer but from what was heard and been told among the tribesmen the raiding continued, or like Coleridge Kennard describes it \"Just as we are preparing for the night a jambaz rider arrives from the desert to announce that a balochi raiding army, a very powerful one a thousand men ride in it is close to his heels, marching from Khwash under Shasavar Khan (Yarahmadzai)\"\n\nIn 1921 Reza Khan who was a member of the Cossack Brigade performed a coup by taking the control over Teheran and establishing his own government with dissolution of the previous. This occurred during a time were Persia became a battlefield between Soviet and Britain, Britain used Persia to perform attacks on Russia to being able to reverse the Revolution (Russian Revolution). With the help of Britain Reza Khan managed to establish his power and one of his first tasks were to secure the borders by starting the pacification of Persia.\nAfter a series of campaign against Azeris, Qashqais, Turkmens and the Lurs the last region remained to be pacified and brought under control of central government was Baluchistan.\n\nThe pacification of western Baluchistan started (1928) in the south were the army of Reza Khan's successfully defeated Dost Mohammad Khan’s of Bampur, but the real battle was left for Reza Khan army to defeat the Damanis. The battle with Damanis proved to be more difficult than expected, Dyer's campaign had strengthen the tribes of Damanis in warfare they were well prepared for the army of Reza Khan. The Ismaelzais led by Juma Khan resisted from Shuro( West of Zahedan ) while the Yarahmadzai led by Jiand Khan (by then aged ninety years old) resisted from Khwash area. As reported by Nigel Colett Jiand khan was leading the resistance until he got arrested and was replaced by his nephew (Shaswar Khan) who became the head of the tribe and continued to lead the resistance. The war lasted for 6 years from 1928-1934. Philip Carl Salzman summarizes the pacification of western Baluchistan \"Reza Shah then turned his attention to the most remote region claimed to be part of Iran, Baluchistan. An army was sent in 1928 and succeeded, with the help of artillery and primitive bombing from early aircraft, in pacifying all of Baluchistan, except for the Sarhad. Led by the Yarahmadzai, who had earlier fought the British, the sarhadi tribes resisted successfully, until finally settling and accepting the suzerainty of the Persian crown in 1935\". The Yarahmadzais were defeated but not forcibly settled. As result of the pacification the Yarahmadzai lost their tribal name and becoming the Shah Navazi(Shah strokers) while Ismaeilzais becoming Shah Baksh(Shahs Pardon).\n\n"}
{"id": "58614894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58614894", "title": "Yuri Ivanov (serial killer)", "text": "Yuri Ivanov (serial killer)\n\nYuri Anufrievich Ivanov (born 1956 in Ust-Kamenogorsk, Kazakh SSR - about 1989), known as the \"Ust-Kamenogorsk Maniac\", was a Soviet rapist and serial killer. In the span fo 13 years (with a break), he raped and killed 16 girls and women. He committed his crimes in Ust-Kamenogorsk, in the area of the \"Combine of silk fabrics\" factory.\n\nIvanov worked as driver. He was married, and his own daughter was married as well. Once he returned home from work a day earlier and found out his wife with a lover. After this, he developed a hatred for certain women, vowing to kill those who cheated on their husbands. During the investigation, Ivanov said that he talked long with a lot of women, learning about their opinions towards men: if the woman spoke ill of her husband or men as a whole, he killed her. He would rape and subsequently choke his victims. After the murder, as a rule, he would take some of deceased's personal belongings.\n\nHe was eventually sentenced to 3 years imprisonment for attempted rape. In the colony Ivanov also worked as a driver, and with the opportunity to travel beyond the colony, he committed several crimes while still serving time.\n\nFrom 1977 to 1987, Ivanov did not kill, as his personal life was again adjusted. But after he broke up with his partner in 1986, he returned to his criminal way of life. In 1987, he killed a 16-year-old girl. At the crime scene, an aluminum button and a hair sample were found that did not belong to the victim. An ambush was set up at the murder scene, and on the next day, when the maniac came back, he was arrested. Under the pressure of evidence (two of his cohabitants, to whom he had given items from the victims, gave the police a purse with his fingerprint, and his jacket lacked an aluminum button). Ivanov confessed to the murder of 16 women and girls with rape, and 14 rapes without murders. Ivanov perfectly remembered all the events of many years with the slightest detail, showing all the crime scenes almost without error. He said that he remembered the faces of his victims, and to prove this, the investigators devised a unique experiment - \"identification of the contrary\": they showed him photos of different women, so he would determine which of them he had raped or killed. Ivanov pointed at his victims without any mistake. For the murder of one of these women, committed in 1974, the victim's husband was convicted. By that time he had served most of the term - 7 out of 12 years. The verdict against him was later abolished, and the murder correctly imputed to Ivanov.\n\nIvanov himself asked for the death penalty, and in 1989, he was sentenced to death. Before the execution he asked to arrange a meeting with his daughter, but she flatly refused to come to her father. Soon after, Ivanov was executed by firing squad.\n\n\n"}
