{"id": "100637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100637", "title": "Ad-Darazi", "text": "Ad-Darazi\n\nMuhammad bin Ismail Nashtakin ad-Darazi () was an 11th-century Ismaili preacher and early leader of the Druze faith who was labeled a heretic in 1016 and subsequently executed in 1018 by the Fatimid Caliph Al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah.\n\nLittle information is known about the early life of Ad-Darazi. According to most sources, he was born in Bukhara. He is believed to have been of Persian origins and his title \"ad-Darazi\" is Persian - meaning 'the tailor'. He arrived in Cairo in 1015, or 1017, after which he joined the newly emerged Druze movement.\n\nHe was the leader of an army that was sent from Cairo to put down the up-rising of the Unity movement that started in the mountains of Lebanon to unite Christian and Muslim Sunni and Shiah under one God. Ad-Darazi's army was around 200,000 men while the Unity movement that started in the Choufe Mountains of Lebanon and the Houran Mountains of Syria had less than 10,000 men. The two sides met in battle north of Jerusalem. Ad-Darazi army was destroyed and he was captured. As a result of the victory, the Unity movement was called at that time the movement that destroyed the army of the Darazi.\n\nAfter the battle, Ad-Darazi was converted to be one of the early preachers of the Unity faith (which became known as the Druze faith). At that time, the movement enlisted a large number of adherents. However, he was later considered a renegade and is usually described by the Druze as following the traits of satan, in particular, arrogance.\n\nThis view is based on the observation that as the number of his followers grew, he became obsessed with his leadership and gave himself the title “The Sword of the Faith”. In the \"Epistles of Wisdom\", Hamza ibn-'Ali ibn-Ahmad warns Ad-Darazi, saying, \"“Faith does not need a sword to aid it.”\" However, Ad-Darazi ignored Hamza's warnings and continued to challenge the Imam. This attitude led to disputes between Ad-Darazi and Hamza ibn-'Ali ibn-Ahmad, who disliked his behaviour. Ad-Darazi argued that he should be the leader of the Da’wa rather than Hamza ibn Ali and gave himself the title “Lord of the Guides”, because Caliph al-Hakim referred to Hamza as “Guide of the Consented”.\n\nBy 1018, ad-Darazi had gathered around him partisans - \"Darazites\" - who believed that universal reason became incarnated in Adam at the beginning of the world, was then passed from him to the prophets, then into Ali and hence into his descendants, the Fatimid Caliphs. Ad-Darazi wrote a book laying out this doctrine. He read from his book in the principal mosque in Cairo, which caused riots and protests against his claims and many of his followers were killed. Hamza ibn Ali refuted his ideology calling him \"the insolent one and Satan\". The controversy created by ad-Darazi led Caliph al-Hakim to suspend the Druze da'wa in 1018 AD.\n\nIn an attempt to gain the support of al-Hakim, ad-Darazi started preaching that al-Hakim and his ancestors were the incarnation of God.\n\nIt is believed that ad-Darazi allowed wine, forbidden marriages and taught metempsychosis although it has argued that his actions might have been exaggerated by contemporary and later historians and polemicists.\n\nAn inherently modest man, al-Hakim did not believe that he was God, and felt ad-Darazi was trying to depict himself as a new prophet. Al-Hakim preferred Hamza ibn 'Ali ibn Ahmad over him and Ad-Darazi was executed in 1018, leaving Hamza the sole leader of the new faith.\n\nEven though the Druze do not consider ad-Darazi the founder of their faith (rather, they refer to him as their \"first heretic\"), rival Muslim groups purposely attached the name of the controversial preacher to the new sect and it has stuck with them ever since. Druze refer to themselves as “unitarians” (\"al-Muwahhidūn)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "48181157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48181157", "title": "Adam Conover", "text": "Adam Conover\n\nAdam Conover (born March 2, 1982) is an American comedian, writer, and television host. He is the creator and host of the half-hour truTV show \"Adam Ruins Everything\", which is based on the CollegeHumor series of the same name.\n\nAdam Conover was born in Smithtown, New York, and grew up in Wading River. His parents are David O. Conover, a marine biologist, and Margaret Conover (née Howard), a botanist. He also has a younger sister, Emily, who holds a PhD in particle physics and is a science reporter, which has led him to describe himself as \"the only member of the family without a Ph.D.\" In 2000, he graduated from Shoreham-Wading River High School, where he first became interested in the performing arts. He then attended Bard College, where, in 2002, he became an active member of the sketch comedy group Olde English. In 2004, he earned a Bachelor's degree in philosophy from Bard College.\n\nIn 2012, Conover began working as a sketch comedy writer for the comedy website CollegeHumor and on CollegeHumor's YouTube channel, where he eventually created the web series that would go on to become \"Adam Ruins Everything\" on TruTV. His show aims to reveal untold and hidden facts about everyday goods and services, and to dispel common misconceptions. The first episode of the truTV version premiered on September 29, 2015. Conover has said his character in the show is a comedic interpretation of the person he worries he once was and/or is. As he told the \"New York Observer\", \"It’s the reaction I’ve gotten my whole life: that I learn something and try to tell people in conversation, but when I tell them, they are annoyed.\" In March 2016, he gave a talk at a marketing conference arguing, among other things, that millennials don't really exist. He currently works in Los Angeles.\n\nHe also voice acts several characters in the animated \"BoJack Horseman\" Netflix-series, including A Ryan Seacrest-Type and Bradley Hitler-Smith.\n\nAs of 2015, Conover was in a relationship with the Ignatz Award-winning comic artist and \"BoJack Horseman\" production designer Lisa Hanawalt. He is a teetotaler, having quit drinking in early 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "6507235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6507235", "title": "Alvin Eli Amason", "text": "Alvin Eli Amason\n\nAlvin Eli Amason (born 1948) is a Sugpiaq Alaskan painter and sculptor. He was born in Kodiak and is of Alutiiq ancestry. He received his Master of Fine Arts from Arizona State University and taught at Navajo Community College. He is now retired from the University of Alaska Fairbanks and was the head of the Alaska Native Art studies program there. He is a member of the Alaska Native Arts Foundation Board of Directors.\n\nAmason was raised by his grandfather, a bear guide. He considered other careers, including engineering, before becoming an artist and sculptor. In 1973, he received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Central Washington University and received a Master of Fine Arts degree from Arizona State University in 1976.\n\nAfter graduation, he painted and taught art in the American Southwest. He was the chair of Navajo Community College's Art Department from 1976 to 1978. In 1978, he took a position as a lecturer at University of Great Falls in Montana. He was appointed by the governor to the Alaska State Council on the Arts in 1981. He received a position at the University of Alaska in 1984, and the Visual Arts Center of Alaska in 1989. In 1992 he took a position as director of the Native Art Center of the University of Alaska in Fairbanks, Alaska. Amason has created paintings for Anchorage International Airport and the U.S. Federal Courthouse Building in Anchorage, as well as public schools in Alaska.\n\nAmason's work has been in invitational shows in Alaska, Arizona, Michigan, Montana, Oklahoma, and Washington, DC, and his works are in the Nordjyllands Kunstmuseum in Denmark, the University of Alaska Museum of the North, the Alaska State Museum, the Smithsonian American Art Museum, and the Heard Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "56420468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56420468", "title": "Amar Maini", "text": "Amar Maini\n\nSir Amar Nath Maini (31 July 1911 – 1999) was a Kenyan lawyer who became a prominent politician in British Uganda, and the first Mayor of Kampala.\n\nHe was born in Nairobi, East Africa Protectorate in 1911 to Punjabi parents who had migrated to East Africa from Ludhiana. He was educated at the Government Indian School and London School of Economics. He thereafter studied law and was called to the Bar at Middle Temple. He returned to Kenya, and practiced as a barrister in Nairobi for a number of years. He served as a Member of Nairobi's Municipal Council between 1933 and 1939. In 1942, he moved to Kampala, Uganda where he soon became active in Ugandan politics and served as a member of the Kampala Township Authority and chairman of the Kampala Municipal Council. He was a member of Uganda's Legislative Council for seventeen years between 1944 and 1961. During this time he served as the Minister of Corporations and Regional Communications between 1955–58, and Minister of Commerce and Industry between 1958-61. Regarded as one of the ablest men in Uganda at the time, the appointment of an Asian minister was met with considerable African opposition. In 1950 he became the first Mayor of Kampala, and remained in the post until 1955. He was awarded a knighthood in the Queen's 1957 New Year Honours for public service in Uganda. In 1961 he became the first East African born Speaker of East African Central Legislative Assembly. On retirement in 1969 he migrated to the United Kingdom and passed away in London in August 1999 at the age of 88. He was the father of Sir Ravinder Maini.\n"}
{"id": "20677738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20677738", "title": "Andrew Jolivette", "text": "Andrew Jolivette\n\nAndrew Jolivétte, professor and former department chair of American Indian Studies at San Francisco State University (2001-2019) is an accomplished, internationally recognized American researcher, educator, author, poet, speaker, socio-cultural critic, and an aspiring chef. He will begin a new position at the University of California, San Diego in the Department of Ethnic Studies as senior specialist and professor in Native American and Indigenous Studies in July, 2019. \n\nJolivette currently serves as the Executive Director of the American Indian Community Cultural Center for the Arts in San Francisco, California. He is the author or editor of eight books in print or forthcoming: Cultural Representation in Native America (Rowman and Littlefield, 2006); Louisiana Creoles: Cultural Recovery and Mixed-Race Native American Identity (Rowman and Littlefield, 2007); Obama and the Biracial Factor: The Battle for a New American Majority (University of Chicago Press, 2012); Research Justice: Methodologies for Social Change (University of Chicago Press, 2015); Indian Blood: HIV and Colonial Trauma in San Francisco’s Two-Spirit Community (Indigenous Confluences Series, University of Washington Press, 2016); American Indian and Indigenous Education: A Survey Text for the 21st Century (Cognella 2019); Louisiana Creole Peoplehood: Tracing Post-Contact Afro-Indigeneity and Community (University of Washington Press, In-Review for Spring 2020 publication *Co-Editor); and Queer Indigenous Citizenship: Against Settler Violence and Anti-Blackness (University of Washington Press, Indigenous Confluences Series, In-Preparation for Review Spring 2019 for Fall 2020 publication) and many journal articles, chapters, reviews and community studies including, A Report on the Health and Wellness of Multiracial Youth in the San Francisco Bay Area (2008) and guest editor of the American Indian Culture and Research Journal’s “Indigenous Locations Post-Katrina: Beyond Invisibility and Disaster” (2008).\n\nJolivette’s book, Indian Blood: HIV and Colonial Trauma in San Francisco’s Two-Spirit Community was a finalist for best book in the LGBTQ Studies category for a Lambda Literary Award in June 2017. The Lammys are the world’s most prestigious LGBTQ Book Award Ceremony. Professor Jolivette is the Series Editor of Critical Indigenous and American Indian Studies at Peter Lang Publishing in New York and he was the Indigenous Peoples’ Representative at the United Nations Forum on HIV and the Law in 2011 during his two-year fellowship as an IHART (Indigenous HIV/AIDS Research Training Program) Fellow at the Indigenous Wellness Research Institute at the University of Washington in Seattle where he currently serves as scientific mentor to new fellows. He is a Ford Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow (2004-2005) and former Diversity Fellowship Panel Reviewer for Ford. He has also served as a peer review expert for SAMSHA and the Canadian Institutes of Health Research. Jolivette is an editorial board member for the Journal of Critical Mixed Race Studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara. He is a founding editor of the Journal of Louisiana Creole Studies. \n\nActive in both scholarship and community organizing he has served as the board president for the Institute for Democratic Education and Culture (Speak Out), iPride for Multiracial Youth and Families, and the GLBT Historical Society and Museum. He is the founder of the group Black Men’s Space and a former board member of DataCenter for Research Justice (Vice-President), the African American Art and Culture Complex, the Center for Restorative Solutions, and SF Black Community Matters. Jolivette currently serves on the board of the Black Community Collective. He has been a member of the National Association for Ethnic Studies (NAES) serving twice as conference co-chair, the Pacific Sociological Association, the American Sociological Association, the Critical Mixed Race Studies Association, and the Native American and Indigenous Studies Association among other academic associations. \n\nBorn and raised in San Francisco in 1975 to Annetta Donna Foster Jolivette and Kenneth Louis Jolivette, he is a noted Louisiana Creole educator of Opelousa, Choctaw, Atakapa-Ishak, French, African, Irish, Italian, and Spanish descent. Professor Jolivette is the former tribal historian for the Atakapa-Ishak Nation located between southwest Louisiana and southeast Texas. As an internationally recognized speaker he has spoken to thousands of college students, educators, researchers, student personnel officers (NASPA, APCA, and AACRAO), government employees and private and non-profit sector organizations over the past decade across the United States, Canada, the Netherlands and Australia. \n\nJolivette received his Ph.D in Sociology from the University of California, Santa Cruz (and is listed as a notable alumni) with specializations in the sociology of race and ethnicity, the sociology of education, the sociology of Latin America, and in the sociology of family. He also holds an MA in Sociology from the University of California, Santa Cruz, an MA in Ethnic Studies with a concentration in American Indian Studies from San Francisco State University, and BA in Sociology with a minor in English Literature and a Certificate in Ethnic Studies from the University of San Francisco.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48704333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48704333", "title": "Antoine Chbeir", "text": "Antoine Chbeir\n\nAntoine Chbeir (born 12 January 1961 in Ghosta, Mount Lebanon Governorate, Lebanon) is the current bishop of the Maronite Catholic Eparchy of Latakia.\n\nAntoine Chbeir received on 13 June 1988 the sacrament of ordination. The decision of the 14th Synod of Bishops of the Maronite Church on 10 March 2015 convenes to elected him Bishop of Latakia. Pope Francis approved his election as Bishop of Latakia on 14 March 2015.\n\nOn 18 April 2015 Chbeir was ordained bishop by the hands of Maronite Patriarch of Antioch, Béchara Boutros Raï, OMM. His co-consecrators were Antoine Nabil Andari, Titular bishop of Tarsus of Maronites and Joseph Soueif, bishop of Cyprus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42621951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42621951", "title": "Arthur Francis Basset Hull", "text": "Arthur Francis Basset Hull\n\nArthur Francis Basset Hull (1862–1945) was an Australian philatelist who signed the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1921.\n\n"}
{"id": "6061925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6061925", "title": "Carlos Quintanilla", "text": "Carlos Quintanilla\n\nGeneral Carlos Quintanilla Quiroga (Cochabamba, Bolivia, January 22, 1888 – June 8, 1964) served as the de facto President of Bolivia from August 1939 until April 1940. Quintanilla saw action during the Chaco War of 1932–1935, and managed to ascend the echelon of the Bolivian armed forces until he became Commander of the Army during the administration of Germán Busch. When President Busch committed suicide on August 23, 1939, the Bolivian military entrusted Quintanilla with the role of assuming power and calling elections.\n\nIt is certain that Quintanilla, like many of his fellow officers, was weary of the reckless reformist wave unleashed by the \"Military Socialist\" Toro and Busch regimes of 1936–1939, and wanted a return to the pre-war oligarchic status quo, complete with its faults and relative stability (not to mention rewards for those who collaborated with the economic powers that be).\n\nIf the military was weary, the politicians from the traditional (oligarchic) parties were downright scared, having witnessed the mobilization of the masses behind \"extremist\" programs that boded ill for the continuity of their liberal, laissez-fair agenda. The 1930s had been extremely turbulent politically, with the formation of many new parties of Socialist, Communist, anarchist, and reformist persuasion, all calling for the end of the established order. It was time to unite all the old parties (which now realized how much they had in common and how minor their differences were) behind a single candidate, to present a monolithic front to the gathering forces of reform and revolution. Eventually, they all settled on General Enrique Peñaranda, the controversial commander of the Bolivian forces during the second half of the Chaco War. How the \"Genuine Republican\" faction of former President Salamanca (who had died in 1935) could reconcile itself with supporting the very man who had overthrown the Commander-in-Chief in the middle of a war seems incomprehensible, but this is a testament to the fear of losing power that now guided all the actions of the old-style parties.\n\nTo ensure Peñaranda's victory, the Quintanilla government exiled a number of prominent opposition leaders, real and potential, including the popular Bernardino Bilbao.\n\nPeñaranda won the elections and in 1940 General Quintanilla left the Palacio Quemado bound for Rome, where he served as the Bolivian ambassador to the Holy See. Quintanilla died in his native Cochabamba on June 8, 1964, at the age of 76.\n\n"}
{"id": "14409615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14409615", "title": "Doug Cameron (politician)", "text": "Doug Cameron (politician)\n\nDouglas Niven Cameron (born 27 January 1951) is a Scottish-born Australian politician and trade unionist. He has been a Labor member of the Australian Senate since July 2008, representing the state of New South Wales.\n\nCameron was born in Bellshill, Scotland, just outside of Glasgow. His mother's parents were born in Lithuania. He left school at 15 to take up an apprenticeship as a fitter at a local chain-making factory. Shortly after completing his apprenticeship the factory closed, and Cameron emigrated to Australia in 1973, at the age of 22. He initially worked at the Garden Island Dockyard in Sydney, before moving to the Liddell Power Station in Muswellbrook in 1975, where he worked as a maintenance fitter. After seven years working at the power station Cameron was elected as the Hunter Valley/New England regional organiser for the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union (AMWSU). In 1986 he became the Assistant State Secretary of the union (by then known as the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union) in NSW, and later the Assistant National Secretary. Cameron served as National Secretary of the Australian Manufacturing Workers Union from 1996 to 2008. \n\nHe was first elected to the Senate at the 2007 federal election. He won Labor preselection by mounting a successful challenge to then incumbent Senator George Campbell.\n\nDuring the period of leadership tensions between Julia Gillard and Kevin Rudd, Cameron was a vocal Rudd supporter. In the Second Rudd Ministry, which held office from June to September 2013, he served as Parliamentary Secretary for Housing and Homelessness.\n\nHe currently serves as the Shadow Minister for Housing and Homelessness and Shadow Minister for Skills and Apprenticeships since 23 July 2016 under the leadership of Bill Shorten. Before that he was Shadow Minister for Human Services from 18 October 2013 to 23 July 2016 also under Shorten. \n\nCameron announced on 24 July 2016 that he would retire at the end of his current term, and not contest the 2019 election.\n\n"}
{"id": "14101540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14101540", "title": "Edward Crofton, 2nd Baron Crofton", "text": "Edward Crofton, 2nd Baron Crofton\n\nEdward Crofton, 2nd Baron Crofton (1 August 1806 – 17 December 1869), known as Sir Edward Crofton, 4th Baronet, from 1816 to 1817, was an Anglo-Irish Conservative politician.\n\nCrofton was the son of the Hon. Sir Edward Crofton, 3rd Baronet, son of Sir Edward Crofton, 2nd Baronet, and his wife Anne Crofton, 1st Baroness Crofton. His mother was Lady Charlotte, daughter of John Stewart, 7th Earl of Galloway. He succeeded his father in the baronetcy in 1816 and the following year he inherited the barony of Crofton on the death of his grandmother. Crofton was elected an Irish Representative Peer in 1840, and served in the Conservative administrations of the Earl of Derby and Benjamin Disraeli as a Lord-in-waiting (government whip in the House of Lords) in 1852, from 1858 to 1859 and from 1866 to 1868.\n\nLord Crofton married Lady Georgina, daughter of Henry Paget, 1st Marquess of Anglesey, in 1833. He died in December 1869, aged 63, and was succeeded in his titles by his eldest son Edward. Lady Crofton died in 1875.\n\n"}
{"id": "54347291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54347291", "title": "Expulsion of Jews from Spain", "text": "Expulsion of Jews from Spain\n\nThe expulsion of the Jews from Spain was ordered in 1492 by the Catholic Monarchs ruling Castile and Aragon through the Edict of Granada with the purpose, according to the decree, of preventing them from influencing \"New Christians\", Jews and their descendants who had under duress converted to Christianity. The decision to expel the Jews—or to prohibit the practice of Judaism—followed the establishment of the Spanish Inquisition in the Crowns of Castile and Aragon to weed out the conversos who continued practising their old faith. Historian Julio Valdeón wrote, \"undoubtedly the expulsion of the Jews from the Iberian site is one of the most controversial issues of all that have happened throughout the history of Spain\". French hispanist Joseph Pérez highlighted the similarities that exist between this expulsion and the persecution of the Jews in Hispania visigoda almost a thousand years earlier.\n\nIn 2015 the Spanish Parliament passed a law recognizing as Spanish those presumed to be descendants of the Jews expelled in 1492, thereby annulling the consequences of that expulsion.\n\nUntil the fourteenth century the Jews who lived under the Muslim caliphates of Al-Andalus were tolerated.\n\nOn January 2, 1492, the Catholic Monarchs conquered the Nasrid Kingdom of Granada. The last Muslim king, Boabdil, withdrew to the Alpujarras after almost 800 years of Muslim rule were ended by the Reconquista.\n\nA letter sent by the Catholic Monarchs to the Council of Bilbao in 1490 stated that under canon law and according to the laws of the kingdoms, the Jews are tolerated and allowed to live in the kingdoms as subjects and vassals. Joseph Pérez said \"one must discard the commonly accepted idea of a Spain where members of the three religions of the Book—Christians, Muslims and Jews—would have lived together peacefully during the first two centuries of Al-Andalus, and later in the Christian Reconquest of Spain in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries. Tolerance implies not discriminating against minorities and respecting their difference, and between the eighth and fifteenth centuries we find nothing on the peninsula like tolerance.\" He states that communities of Christians, Jews and Muslims had never lived In the Christian kingdoms. According to Henry Kamen, Jews and Muslims were treated \"with contempt\". And the Jews were treated with disdain. Three communities \"lived separate stocks.\"\n\nIn the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, Christian anti-Judaism in the medieval West was intensified, which is reflected in the harsh anti-Jewish measures agreed in the Lateran Council celebrated in 1215 at the behest of the Pope Innocent III. The peninsular Christian kingdoms were by no means foreign to the growth of increasingly belligerent anti-Judaism—in the Castilian code of Siete Partidas it was said that the Jews lived among Christians \"so that their presence would remind that they descended from those who crucified Our Lord Jesus Christ\"—but the kings continued to \"protect\" the Jews for the important role they played in their kingdoms.\n\nIn the fourteenth century the period of \"tolerance\" towards the Jews was over, passing into a phase of increasing conflicts. According to Joseph Perez, \"the changing times are not the mentalities, the circumstances. The good times of Spain of the three religions had coincided with a phase of territorial, demographic and economic expansion, Jews and Christians did not compete in the labor market: both one and the other contributed to the general prosperity and shared their benefits. The militant of the Church and the friars hardly found an echo. Of the fourteenth century, the wars and natural catastrophes that precede and follow the Black Plague create a new situation. ... [People] believe themselves to be the victim of a curse, punished for sins they would have committed. It invites the faithful to repent, to change their behavior and to return to God. This is when the presence of the \"deicidal people\" among Christians is considered scandalous.\n\nThe first wave of violence against the Jews in the Iberian Peninsula occurred in the Kingdom of Navarre as a consequence of the arrival in 1321 of the crusade of the shepherds from the other side of the Pyrenees. The Jewry of Pamplona and Estella are massacred. Two decades later the impact of the Black Death of 1348 provokes assaults on the juderías of several places, especially those of Barcelona and other places in the Principality of Catalonia. In the Crown of Castile anti-Jewish violence is closely related to the Civil War of the reign of Pedro I in which the side that supported Enrique de Trastámara used anti-Judaism as a propaganda weapon, and the pretender accused his stepbrother, King Peter, of favoring the Jews. Thus the first slaughter of Jews, in Toledo in 1355, was carried out by the supporters of Enrique de Trastámara when they entered the city. The same happened eleven years later when they occupied Briviesca. In Burgos, Jews who could not pay the large tribute imposed on them in 1366 were reduced to slavery and sold. In Valladolid the Jewry was assaulted in 1367 to the shout of \"Long live King Henry!\". There were no deaths, but the synagogues were burned down.\nBut the great catastrophe for the Jews of the Iberian Peninsula took place in 1391 when massacres took place in the juderías of the Crowns of Castile and of Aragon. The assaults, the fires, the looting and the massacres begin in June in Seville, where Ferrand Martinez, archdeacon of Écija, taking advantage of the power vacuum created by the death of the archbishop of Seville, hardened his preaching against the Jews that had begun in 1378, and ordered the overthrow of the synagogues and requisitioning of prayer books. In January of 1391, a first attempt of assault on the Jewish quarter was avoided by the municipal authorities, but in June hundreds of Jews were murdered, their houses ransacked, and the synagogues converted into churches. Some Jews managed to escape; others, terrified, asked to be baptized.\n\nFrom Seville anti-Jewish violence extended throughout Andalusia, and then extended to Castile. In August it reached the Crown of Aragon. Murders, looting and fires took place everywhere. Many of the Jews who survived fled, many to the kingdoms of Navarre and of Portugal, France, and North Africa. Others accepted baptism to avoid death. The number of victims is difficult to know. About 400 Jews were murdered in Barcelona; in Valencia 250; In Lérida 68 ... \n\nAfter the massacres of 1391, anti-Jewish measures were intensified: in 1411 Castile ordered that Jews wear a red badge sewn to their clothing. In the Crown of Aragon the possession of the Talmud was declared unlawful, and the number of synagogues per aljama is limited to one. In addition, the mendicant orders, with the support of the monarchs, intensified their campaign of proselytism, in which Valencian Vincent Ferrer played a prominent part, to convert Jews to Christianity. It was also decreed that Jews were obliged to attend three sermons every year. As a result of the massacres of 1391 and the measures that followed, by 1415 more than half of the Jews of Castile and Aragon had renounced the Mosaic law and had been baptized, including many rabbis and important members of the community.\n\nAfter the massacres of 1391 and the preaching that followed them, by 1415 scarcely a hundred thousand Jews continued to practice their religion in the crowns of Castile and Aragon. Joseph Perez said, \"Spanish Judaism will never recover from this catastrophe.\" The Jewish community \"came out of the crisis not only physically diminished but morally and intellectually shattered\".\n\nIn the Crown of Aragon, Judaism in important places such as Barcelona, Valencia and Palma virtually disappeared—in 1424 the Barcelona Jewry was abolished because it was considered unnecessary— and only the Zaragoza one remained. In Castile aljamas once flourishing such as those of Seville, Toledo or Burgos lost much of their members; in 1492, the year of the expulsion, in the Crown of Aragon only a quarter of the former number of Jews remained. The famous Jewish community of Gerona, for example, was left with only 24 families. In the Crown of Castile not 80,000 were left. In Seville before the revolts of 1391 there were about 500 Jewish families. According to Joseph Perez, at the time of the expulsion there were fewer than 150,000 Jews, distributed in 35 aljamas of the Crown of Aragon and 216 in the Crown of Castile. In both Crowns it was observed that the Jews had left the great cities and lived in the small and the rural areas, less exposed \"to the excesses of the Christians.\"\nAfter the critical period of 1391-1415, the pressure on Jews recovering their synagogues and books confiscated decreased, and they became able to avoid certain obligations such as carrying the red ribbon or attending friars' sermons. They could also reconstruct the internal organization of the aljamas and their religious activities, thanks to the agreements reached by the procurators of the aljamas gathered in Valladolid in 1432 and sanctioned by the king, which means that \"the Crown of Castile accepts again officially that a minority of its subjects has another religion than the Christian one and recognizes the right of this minority to exist legally, with a legal status.\" \"In this way the Jewish community is rebuilt with the approval of the crown.\" Abraham Beneviste, who presided over the meeting of Valladolid, was appointed court rabbi with authority over all the Jews of the kingdom, and at the same time as delegate of the king over them.\n\nDuring the reign of the Catholic Monarchs, in the last quarter of the 15th century, many Jews lived in rural villages and engaged in agricultural activities. Crafts and trade were not monopolized—international trade had passed into the hands of converts. While Jews continued to trade as money-lenders, the number of Christian lenders had increased a lot. Jews also continued to collect royal, ecclesiastical and seigniorial rents, but their importance had also diminished—in Castile they were only in charge of a quarter of the revenues. However, in the court of Castile—but not Aragon—Jews held important administrative and financial positions. Abraham Senior was from 1488 treasurer-major of the Holy Brotherhood, a key organism in the financing of the war of Grenada, and also chief rabbi of Castile. Yucé Abravanel was \"A greater collector of the service and mountaineering of the herds, one of the more healthy income and greater yield of the Crown of Castile.\" However, according to Joseph Perez, the role of the Jews in the court must not be exaggerated. \"The truth was that the state could do without the Jews, both in the bureaucratic apparatus and in the management of the estate.\"\nWe must therefore reject the claim that the Hebrew community at the end of the fifteenth century was immensely rich and influential. \"In fact, the Spanish Jews at the time of their expulsion did not form a homogeneous social group. There were among them classes as in Christian society, a small minority of very rich and well-placed men, together with a mass of small people: Farmers, artisans, shopkeepers.\" What united them was that they practiced the same faith, different from the one recognized, which made them a separate community within the monarchy and which was \"property\" of the crown which thereby protected them. In a letter dated 7 July, 1477, addressed to the authorities of Trujillo, where incidents had occurred against the Jews, Queen Isabella I of Castile, after putting the aljama under her protection and prohibiting all type of oppression or humiliation against its members, states:\n\nThus, the Jews \"formed not a State in the State, but rather a micro-society next to the majority Christian society, with an authority [the rabbi greater] that the crown delegated to him over its members.\" The aljamas were organized internally with a wide margin of autonomy. They designated by lottery the council of elders that governed the life of the community; collecting their own taxes for the maintenance of worship, synagogues, and rabbinical teaching; lived under the norms of Jewish law, and had their own courts that understood all cases in civil matters - from the Cortes de Madrigal of 1476 criminal cases had passed to the royal courts. But Jews did not enjoy the fullness of civil rights: they had a specific tax system far more burdensome than that of Christians and were excluded from positions that could confer authority on Christians.\n\nThe situation in which the Jews lived, according to Joseph Perez, posed two problems: \"as subjects and vassals of the king, the Jews had no guarantee for the future - the monarch could at any time close the autonomy of the aljamas or require new Most important taxes-\"; and, above all, \"in these late years of the Middle Ages, when a state of modern character is being developed, there could be no question of a problem of immense importance: was the existence of separate and autonomous communities compatible with the demands of A modern state? This was the real question.\"\n\nIn the fifteenth century, the main problem stopped being the Jews to become the conversos, whose number according to Joseph Perez would probably be close to two hundred thousand people. Christian convert was applied to the Jews who had been baptized and their descendants. As many of them had done it by force they were always looked upon with distrust by those who will call themselves Old Christians.\nIn the fifteenth century the positions abandoned by the Jews were mostly occupied by the converts, who concentrated there where the Jewish communities had flourished before 1391. They dealt with the activities formerly performed by the Jews - trade, the handicraft - and now with the added advantage that as Christians they can access trades and professions that were previously forbidden to the Jews. Some even enter the clergy becoming canon so prior is and even bishops.\n\nThe social rise of the converts was viewed with suspicion by the \"old\" Christians, a resentment that was accentuated by the conscience on the part of those who had a differentiated identity, proud of being Christians and having Jewish ancestry, which was the lineage of Christ. Thus popular revolts broke out against the converts between 1449 and 1474, when in Castile lived a period of economic difficulties and political crisis (especially during the civil war of the reign of Henry IV). The first and most important of these revolts was the one that took place in 1449 in Toledo, during which a \"Judgment-Statute\" was approved that prohibited the access to the municipal positions of \"no confesso of the lineage of the Jews\" - an antecedent of the following blood-cleaning statutes of the following century. The origin of the revolts was economic in Andalusia especially there was a situation of hunger, aggravated by an epidemic of plague - and in principle \"not directed especially against the converts.\" It is the parties and the demagogues that take advantage of the exasperation of the people and direct it against the converts.\"\nIn order to justify the attacks on the converts, it is affirmed that they are false Christians and that they are still practicing the Jewish religion in secret. According to Joseph Perez, it is a proven fact that, among those who converted to escape the blind furor of the masses in 1391, or by the pressure of the proselytizing campaigns of the early fifteenth century, some clandestinely returned to their old faith when It seemed that the danger had passed, of which it is said that \"Judaízan.\" The accusation of Crypto-Judaism becomes more plausible when some cases of prominent converts who continued to observe the Jewish rites after their conversion. But Joseph Judaizers, according to Joseph Perez, were a minority, although relatively important. The same affirms Henry Kamen when he says that \"it can be affirmed that in the end of the 1470’s there was no Judaizing movement highlighted or proven among the converts.\" He also points out that when a convert was accused of judaizing, in many cases the \"proofs\" that were brought were in fact cultural elements of his Jewish ancestry - such as the Sabbath, not Sunday, as the day of rest - or the lack of knowledge of the new faith - such as not knowing the creed or eating meat in Lent - \n\nThis is how the \"convergent problem\" is born. The baptized can not renounce their faith according to the canonical doctrine of the Church by which Crypto-Judaism is assimilated to heresy, and as such must be punished. This is how they begin to claim various voices including those of some converts who do not want to question the sincerity of their baptism because of those \"false\" Christians who are beginning to be called Marrano. And it also extends the idea that the presence of the Jews among the Christians is what invites the converts to continue practicing the Law of Moses.\n\nWhen in 1474 she acceded to the throne, married to the heir of the Crown of Aragon, the future Ferdinand II of Aragon, crypto-Judaism was not punished, \"not, of course, by tolerance Or indifference, but because they lacked appropriate legal instruments to characterize this type of crime. \"Thus, when they decide to confront the \"converso problem\", especially after the prior of the Dominicans of Seville, Fray Alonso de Ojeda, in 1475 sent them an alarming report on the number of converts who in that city judaízan, even in an open way, are addressed to Pope Sixtus IV to authorize them to appoint inquisitors in their kingdoms, which the pontiff grants them by the Bull \"Exigit sincerae devotionis\" of November 1, 1478. \"With the creation of the tribunal of the Inquisition, the authorities will have the instrument and the means of in \"According to Joseph Perez, Ferdinand and Isabella\" were convinced that the Inquisition would compel the converts to integrate definitively: the day when all new Christians renounced Judaism nothing would distinguish them from the other members of the social body.\"\n\nFrom the beginning of his reign, Isabel and Ferdinand were concerned to protect the Jews - since they were \"property\" of the crown. For example, on September 6, 1477, in a letter addressed to the Jewish community of Seville, Queen Elizabeth I gave assurances about her safety:\nBut the Catholic Monarchs could not do away with all the vexations and discrimination suffered by the Jews, encouraged on many occasions by the preaching of the friars of the mendicant orders. They then made the decision to segregate the Jews to end the conflict. Already in the Cortes of Madrigal of 1476 the kings had protested by the breach of the provisions in the Order of 1412 on the Jews - prohibition to wear luxury dresses; Obligation to wear a red slice on the right shoulder; prohibition to hold positions with authority over Christians, to have Christian servants, to lend money at usurious interest, etc. - but in the Cortes de Toledo of 1480 they decided to go much further to fulfill these norms: to force the Jews to live In separate quarters, from where they could not leave except during the day to carry out their professional occupations. Until then the Jewish quarters-where the Jews used to live and where they had their synagogues, butchers, etc.-had not formed a separate world in the cities and there were also Christians living in them and Jews living outside them. From 1480 onwards, the Jewish quarters were converted into ghettos surrounded by walls and the Jews were confined in them to avoid confusion and damage of our holy faith. A process for which a term of two years was established, but which lasted for more than ten years, and which was not exempt from problems and abuses by Christians.\nThe text approved by the Cortes, which also included the Mudejar, read as follows:\nThe decision of the kings approved by the Courts of Toledo, had antecedents since the Jews already had been confined in some Castilian localities like Cáceres or Soria. In this last locality had been realized with the approval of the kings \"to avoid dapnos [sic] that because of bevir and to dwell and to be the Jews among the christianos they followed\". Fray Hernando de Talavera, confessor of the queen and who had opposed the use of force to solve the \"convergent problem\", also justified the segregation \"by avoiding many sins, which are followed of the mixture and a great deal of familiarity [between Christians and Jews] and of not keeping everything close to their conversation with Christians by holy canons and civil laws is ordered and commanded.\"\n\nAccording to Joseph Perez, with the decision to detain Jews in ghettos, it was not only a question of separating them from Christians and of protecting them, but also of imposing a series of obstacles on them in the development of their activities, so that they would not have more remedy \"than to give up their status as Jews if they want to lead a normal existence. Their conversion is not demanded - not yet - nor is their autonomous statute touched, but they proceed with them in such a way that they end up convincing themselves that the only solution is conversion.\"\n\nThe first inquisitors appointed by the kings arrived in Seville in November 1480, \"immediately sowing terror\". In the first years and only for this city they dictate 700 death sentences and more than five thousand \"reconciliations\" - that is, prison sentences, exile or simple penances - that are accompanied by the confiscation of their property and the disqualification For public office and ecclesiastical benefits.\n\nIn their inquiries the inquisitors discovered that for a long time many converts had met with their Jewish relatives to celebrate Jewish holidays and even attend synagogues. This convinces them that they will not be able to put an end to crypto-Judaism if converts continue to maintain contact with the Jews, for example: what they ask the kings to be expelled from Andalusia. These approve and in 1483 give a period of six months for the Jews of the dioceses of Seville, Cordoba and Cadiz to go to Extremadura. There are doubts as to whether the order was strictly enforced since at the time of the final expulsion in 1492 some chroniclers speak of the fact that eight thousand families of Andalusia embarked in Cadiz and others in Cartagena and in the ports of the Crown of Aragon. On the other hand, the expulsion of the Jews of Saragossa and Teruel was also proposed, but in the end it was not carried out.\n\nAccording to Julio Valdeón, the decision to expel the Jews from Andalusia also obeyed \"the desire to move them away from the border between the crown of Castile and the Nasrid Kingdom of Granada, scenario, during the eighties of the fifteenth century And the first years of the 1990s, of the war that ended with the disappearance of the last stronghold of peninsular Islam.\n\nOn March 31, 1492, shortly after the end of the Granada war, the Catholic Kings signed the decree of expulsion of the Jews in Granada, which was sent to all the cities, towns and lordships of their kingdoms with orders strict to not read it or make it public until May 1. It is possible that some prominent Jews tried to nullify or soften it but did not have any success. Among these Jews stands out Isaac Abravanel who offered King Ferdinand a considerable sum of money. According to a well-known legend when the Inquisitor General Tomas de Torquemada found out, he presented himself before the king and threw a crucifix at his feet, saying: \"Judas sold our Lord for thirty pieces of silver; His Majesty is about to sell it again for thirty thousand.\" According to the Israeli historian Benzion Netanyahu, quoted by Julio Valdeón, when Abravanel met with the Queen Isabella, she said to him: \"'Do you think this comes from me? The Lord has put that thought into the heart of the King?\"\n\nA few months before a car of faith held in Avila in which three converts and two Jews condemned by the Inquisition were burnt alive for an alleged crime of ritual crime against a Christian child (who will be known as the [Child of the Guard] contributed to create the propitious environment for the expulsion.\n\nThe Catholic Kings had precisely entrusted to the [inquisitor general] Tomás de Torquemada and its collaborators the writing of the decree fixing to them, according to the historian Luis Suarez, three previous conditions Which would be reflected in the document: to justify the expulsion by charging Jews with two sufficiently serious offenses - usury and \"heretical practice\"; That there should be sufficient time for Jews to choose between baptism or exile; And that those who remained faithful to the Mosaic law could dispose of their movable and immovable property, although with the provisos established by the laws-they could not draw either gold, silver, or horses. Torquemada presented the draft decree to the kings on March 20, 1492, and the monarchs signed and published it in Granada on March 31. According to Joseph Perez, that the kings commissioned the drafting of the decree to Torquemada \"demonstrates the leading role of [the Inquisition] in that matter.\"\n\nOf the decree promulgated in Granada on March 31, which was based on the draft decree of Torquemada - drawn up \"with the will and consent of their altezas\" and which is dated in Santa Fe On March 20 - there are two versions. One signed by the two kings and valid for the Crown of Castile and another signed only by King Ferdinand and valid for the Crown of Aragon. Between the draft decree of Torquemada and the two final versions and between these, they exist, according to Joseph Perez, \"significant variants.\" In contrast to the Torquemada project and the Castilian decree, in the version addressed to the Crown of Aragon the protagonism of the Inquisition is recognized - \" Persuading us the venerable father prior of Santa Cruz [Torquemada], inquisitor general of the heretical staidness usury is mentioned as one of the two crimes of which the Jews are accused: \"We find the Jewish sayings, by means of great and unbearable usages, to devour and absorb the properties and substances of Christians\"; We reaffirm the official position that only the Crown can decide the fate of the Jews since they are the possession of the kings - \"they are ours,\" it is said; And contains more insulting expressions against the Jews: they are accused of making fun of the laws of Christians and of considering them idolaters; Mention is made of the abominable circumstances and of Jewish perfidy. The Judaism of \"leprosy\" is qualified; It is recalled that the Jews \"by their own fault are subject to perpetual servitude, to be slaves and captives.\"\n\nRegarding the essentials the two versions have the same structure and expose the same ideas. The first part describes the reasons why the kings - or the king in the case of the \"Aragonese\" version - decide to expel the Jews and in the second part it is detailed how the expulsion is going to take place.\n\nThe second part of the decree detailed the conditions for expulsion:\n\nAlthough the edict did not refer to a possible conversion, this alternative was implicit. As the historian Luis Suárez pointed out, the Jews had \"four months to take the most terrible decision of their lives: to abandon their faith to be integrated in it [in the kingdom, in the political and civil community], or leave the territory in order to preserve it.\"\n\nThe drama that lived the Jews is collected by a contemporary source:\n\nThe most outstanding Jews, with few exceptions among which the one of Isaac Abravanel stands out, decided to convert to the Christianity. The most relevant case was that of Abraham Senior, the chief rabbi of Castile and one of the closest collaborators of the kings. He and all his relatives were baptized on June 15, 1492 in the Guadalupe monastery, being his godfathers the kings Isabel and Fernando. It took the name of Fernán Núñez Coronel and its son-in-law Mayr Melamed of Fernán Pérez Coronel - the same name of pile that the one of the king. In this case, like that of Abraham de Córdoba, he was given much publicity to serve as an example for the rest of his community. In fact during the four-month tacit term that was given for the conversion many Jews were baptized, especially the rich and the most educated, and among them the vast majority of the rabbis.\n\nA chronicler of the time relates the intense propaganda campaign that unfolded:\nThe Jews who decided not to become \"had to prepare themselves for the march in tremendous conditions\". They had to sell their goods because they had very little time and had to accept the sometimes ridiculous amounts they offered them in the form of goods that could be carried away because the gold and silver output of the kingdom was prohibited - the possibility of taking bills of exchange were not much help because the bankers, Italians for the most part, demanded them enormous interests. A chronicler of the time attests this:\n\nThey also had serious difficulties in recovering the money lent to Christians because either the repayment term was after August 10, deadline for their departure, or many of the debtors denounced \"usury fraud\", knowing that the Jews, they would not have time for the courts to prove them right. In a letter to the kings, the Ampudia Jews complained that \"The mayors of the said village made them and have closed many unreason and grievances says that they do not consent to them, nor do they want them to pay and pay their personal property and that they have no less, but they want to make and pay the debts owed to them and that which they deem urge them to do and then pay them even if the deadlines are not reached.\"\n\nIn addition they had to take care of all the expenses of the trip - transport, maintenance, freight of the ships, tolls, etc. -. This was organized by Isaac Abravanel, who contracted the ships, having to pay very high prices and whose owners in some cases did not fulfill the contract or killed the travelers to steal what little they had. Avranel counted on the collaboration of the real official convert Luis de Santángel and of the banker genovés, Francisco Pinelo.\n\nThe kings had to give orders to be protected during the trip, because during the same suffered vexations and abuse. This is how Andrés Bernaldez, pastor of Los Palacios, the time when the Jews had to \"abandon their land of their births\":\n\nAt the beginning of the decree It is said that:\nIt is well known that in our domains there are some bad Christians who have Judaized and have committed apostasy against the holy Catholic faith, being the cause most by the relations between Jews and Christians.\nThe following are the measures taken hitherto by kings to end the communication between the Jewish community and the converts, a fundamental cause according to the kings and the Inquisition, that the new Christians, first of all the agreement of the Cortes de Toledo of 1480 by which the Jews were forced to live in neighborhoods separated from the Christians, in order to prevent the Jews from \"subverting and subtracting the Christian faithful from our holy Catholic faith.\" Secondly, the decision to expel the Jews from Andalusia, \"believing that this would suffice for those of the other cities and towns and places of our kingdoms and lordships to cease to do and commit the aforesaid.\" But this measure failed\" \"because every day it is found and it seems that the said Jews grow in continuing their bad and damaged purpose where they live and talk.'\"\n\nFinally, the reason for deciding to expel the entire Jewish community, and not just those of its members who allegedly wanted to \"pervert\" the Christians, is explained:\n\nAs highlighted Julio Valdeón, \"undoubtedly the expulsion of the Jews from the Iberian site is one of the most controversial issues of all that have happened throughout the history of Spain.\" It is not surprising, therefore, that historians have debated whether, in addition to the motives laid out by the Catholic Monarchs in the decree, there were others. Nowadays, some of those who argued at the time, such as the expulsion of the Jews to stay with their wealth, seem to have been discarded, since the majority of the Jews who left were the most modest, while the richest converted and they stayed, and on the other hand, the crown did not benefit at all from the operation - rather it was damaged because it stopped receiving the taxes paid by the Jews. Nor does the argument seem to hold that the expulsion was an episode of classes - the nobility wanted to get rid of an incipient bourgeoisie that represented the Jews and that supposedly threatened their interests - because many Jews were defended by some of the most important nobiliary families of Castile, and because he was also among the ranks of the \"bourgeoisie\" of \"old Christians\" where anti-Judaism grew the most.\n\nThe personal motives of the kings also seem to be ruled out, because everything indicates that they did not feel any repugnance towards Jews and converts. Among the trusted men of the kings were several who belonged to this group, such as the confessor of the queen fray Hernando de Talavera, the steward Andrés Cabrera, the treasurer of the Santa Hermandad Abraham Senior, or as Mayr Melamed or Isaac Abarbanel, without counting the Jewish doctors that attended them.\nCurrent historians prefer to place expulsion in the European context and stand out, such as Luis Suárez Fernández or Julio Valdeón, that the Catholic Kings were in fact the last of the sovereigns of the great western European states to decree The expulsion-the Kingdom of England did it in 1290, the Kingdom of France in 1394; in 1421 the Jews are expelled from Vienna; in 1424 of Linz and of Colonia; in 1439 of Augsburg; in 1442 of Bavaria; in 1485 of Perugia; in 1486 of Vicenza; in 1488 of Parma; in 1489 of Milan and Luca; in 1493 of Sicily; in 1494 of Florence; in 1498 of Provenza...-. The aim of all of them was to achieve unity of faith in their states, a principle that will be defined in the sixteenth century with the formula \"cuius regio, eius religio\", that the subjects should profess the same religion as their prince.\n\nAs Joseph Perez pointed out, the expulsion \"puts an end to an original situation in Christian Europe: that of a nation that consents to the presence of different religious communities\" with which it \"becomes a nation like the rest in Christendom European\". \"The University of Paris congratulated Spain for having carried out an act of good government, an opinion shared by the best spirits of the time (Machiavelli, Guicciardini, Pico della Mirandola)... [...] it was the so-called medieval coexistence that missed Christian Europe.\n\nJulio Valdeón affirms that the decision of the Catholic Monarchs, who \"showed themselves, in their first years of rule, clearly protective of the Hebrews,\" was due to \"pressure from the rest of Christianity\" and to \"the constant pressure of Church, who often preached against those he called \"deicides\", as well as the \"tremendous animosity that existed in the Christian people against the Jewish community.\" In this sense he quotes the thesis of the Israeli historian Benzion Netanyahu that the expulsion was the consequence of the climate of racism that was lived in the Christian society of the time. A thesis the latter - that the kings decided the expulsion to ingratiate themselves with the masses in which the anti-Jewish sentiments predominated - that Joseph Perez considers without foundation. \"Why should kings have to worry about what the masses felt about Jews and converts when they did not serve the more concrete interests of those masses?\" Of the three surviving versions of the expulsion edict, only the third term \"usury\", which was signed only by Don Fernando, refers to the subject of usury, in very harsh terms, and in the other two versions we do not read a single mention or even the slightest mention of this matter. Accusations that had been repeated for centuries against the Jews: people deicide, desecration of hosts, ritual crimes ... do not appear in any of the three versions.\"\n\nFor Joseph Perez, the decision of the Catholic Monarchs, as evidenced by the content of the Granada Edict, is directly related to the \"converso problem\". The first step was the creation of the Inquisition, the second the expulsion of the Jews to eliminate those who allegedly incited the converts to Judaize. \"What concerned them [the kings] was the total and definitive assimilation of the converts, for which the previous measures failed; they resort to a drastic solution: the expulsion of the Jews to start evil.\" \"The idea of expelling the Jews is part of the Inquisition, of which there is no doubt ... The Inquisition found the expulsion of the Jews the best way to put an end to the Judaizing converts: removed the Catholic Monarchs take the idea to their own account, but this does not mean that the pressure of the inquisitors is low. Heresy is not to their liking, they want to \"clean\" their kingdom, as the queen wrote, but these concerns are also political: they hope that the elimination of Judaism will facilitate the definitive assimilation and integration of converts into Spanish society\".\n\nOn the other hand, Joseph Perez, following Luis Suárez, places the expulsion within the context of the construction of the \"modern state,\" which requires greater social cohesion based on unity of faith to impose its authority on all groups and individuals of the kingdom. Unlike the medieval period in this type of state, it does not fit the groups that are governed by particular norms, as was the case of the Jewish community. It is therefore not a coincidence, Pérez warns, that only three months after having eliminated the last Muslim stronghold of the peninsula with the conquest of the Nazari kingdom of Granada, they decree the expulsion of the Jews. \"What was intended then was to completely assimilate Judaizers and Jews so that there would be no more than Christians. Kings must have thought that the prospect of expulsion would encourage Jews to become massively and that a gradual assimilation would do away with the remnants of Judaism\". The vast majority chose to leave, with all that entailed of tears, sacrifices and vexations, and to remain faithful to their faith. \"They totally refused to assimilate as an alternative.\" However, \"assimilation\" is in this quotation a euphemism: what was offered to the Sephardic was in fact the conversion to a faith that was not his own, hence his Emigration in mass (towards the different directions indicated in the attached map).\n\nAs Joseph Perez pointed out, \"In 1492 the story of Spanish Judaism ends, which will only lead to an underground existence, always threatened by the Spanish Inquisition and the suspicion of a public opinion that saw In Jews, Judaizers and even sincere converts to natural enemies of Catholicism and Spanish idiosyncrasy, as understood and imposed by some ecclesiastical and intellectual leaders, in an attitude that bordered on racism.\"\n\nThe number of expelled Jews remains controversial. The figures ranged from 45,000 to 350,000, although the most recent investigations, according to Joseph Perez, place it at around 50,000, taking into account the thousands of Jews who left after returning because of the mistreatment they suffered in some places in Fez, Marruecos. Julio Valdeón, citing also the latest investigations, places the figure between 70,000 and 100,000, of which between 50,000 and 80,000 would come from the Crown of Castile, although in these numbers the returnees are not counted.\n\nThe situation of those who returned was regularized with an order of November 10, 1492, in which it was established that civil and ecclesiastical authorities had to be witnesses to baptism, and in the event that they had been baptized before returning, evidence and testimonials that confirm it. They were also able to recover all their goods for the same price at which they had sold them. Returns are documented at least until 1499. On the other hand, a provision of the Royal Council of October 24, 1493, determined harsh sanctions for those who reviled these new Christians - calling them \"transgressors,\" for example.\n\nAs for the economic impact of the expulsion, it seems to be ruled out that it was a hard setback and stopped the birth of capitalism, which would be one of the causes of the decline of Spain. As Joseph Perez has pointed out, \"in view of the published literature on taxation and economic activities, there is no doubt that the Jews were no longer a source of relevant wealth, neither as bankers nor as renters nor as merchants who developed the expulsion of the Jews produced problems at the local level but not a national catastrophe. It is clearly unreasonable to attribute to that event the decadence of Spain and its supposed inability to adapt to the transformations of the modern world. What we now know shows that sixteenth-century Spain was not precisely an economically backward nation. [...] In strictly demographic and economic terms, and apart from human aspects, the expulsion did not imply for Spain any substantial deterioration, but only a temporary crisis Quickly overtaken.\"\n\nA copy of the Amsterdam Gazette published in the Netherlands on September 12, 1672. The Hebrews of Amsterdam printed a newspaper showing the interest of the Jewish community in what was happening at that time in Madrid and , It also read the news in Spanish - after 180 years of being expelled from its ancestral soil (1492).\nDocument preserved and exhibited in Beth Hatefutsoth, Nahum Goldmann Museum and House of the Diasporas, University of Tel Aviv, State of Israel.\n\nMost of the expelled Jews settled in North Africa, sometimes via Portugal, or in nearby states, such as the Kingdom of Portugal, the Kingdom of Navarre, or in the Italian states. As of the first two kingdoms also they were expelled to them in 1497 and in 1498 respectively, they had to emigrate again. Those of Navarre settled in Bayona for the most part. And those of Portugal ended up in northern Europe (England or Flanders).\n\nIn North Africa, those who went to the Fez kingdom suffered all kinds of ill-treatment and were plundered, even by the Jews who had lived there for a long time. Those who fought the best were those who settled in the territories of the Ottoman Empire, both in North Africa and in the Middle East, as in the Balkans and the Republic of Ragusa, after having passed by Italy. The sultan gave orders to be welcomed and his successor Soliman the Magnificent exclaimed on one occasion referring to King Ferdinand: \"You call him king who impoverishes his states to enrich the mine?\" This same sultan commented to the ambassador sent by Carlos V who marveled that \"they had cast the Jews of Castile, because it was to throw the wealth.\"\n\nAs some Jews identified Spain and the Iberian Peninsula with Biblical Sepharad, the Jews expelled by the Catholic Monarchs took or received the name of Sephardi. These, in addition to their religion, They also kept many of their ancestral customs, and in particular they have preserved the use of the Spanish language, a language which, of course, is not exactly what was spoken in fifteenth-century Spain: like any living language, it evolved and suffered the passage of time, notable alterations, although the structures and essential characteristics remained those of the Castilian late medieval. [...] The Sephardi never forgot the land of their parents, sheltering for her mixed feelings: on the one hand, the resentment for the tragic ones events of 1492, on the other hand, walking the time, the nostalgia of the lost homeland ...\".\n\nAbout judeoespañol as a socio-cultural and identity phenomenon, Garcia-Pelayo and Gross wrote in the twentieth century:\n\n"}
{"id": "730299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730299", "title": "Faustin Twagiramungu", "text": "Faustin Twagiramungu\n\nFaustin Twagiramungu (born 14 August 1945) is a Rwandan politician. He was Prime Minister from 1994 until his resignation in 1995, the first head of government appointed after the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) captured Kigali. He then exiled himself to Belgium.\n\nTwagiramungu was born on 14 August 1945 in Cyangugu prefecture. Although Hutu in origin, Twagiramungu rejects the ethnic label, preferring to see himself as a Rwandan. Twagiramungu speaks Kinyarwanda, French, Swahili and English.\n\nTwagiramungu studied and worked in Quebec, Canada, from 1968 to 1976, during which time he experienced Quebec separatism and met with René Lévesque. After returning to Rwanda, he ran a transportation company called Magasins Généraux du Rwanda (MAGERWA).\n\nTwagiramungu rose to political prominence after the democratic opening in Rwanda in 1991, as the chairman of a new political party, the Republican Democratic Movement (). MDR joined the multiparty government set up in April 1992, and a MDR politician, Dismas Nsengiyaremye, became the Prime Minister. However, in July 1993, MDR was split between two factions headed by Nsengiyaremye and Twagiramungu, who both wanted to be the Prime Minister in the anticipated Broad-Based Transitional Government (BBTG), a post which was to be decided prior to the signing of the Arusha Accords. Twagiramungu's faction was weak, but he succeeded thanks to support from the other political parties. The Arusha Accords were signed on 4 August 1993, and Twagiramungu was chosen to be the Prime Minister. The BBTG was never installed.\n\nIn July 1994, Twagiramungu finally became Prime Minister in the Arusha-inspired \"Government of National Unity\" set up by the RPF after taking power in wake of the Rwandan genocide. His appointment was tinged with symbolism for many Rwandans, as he was the son-in-law of Grégoire Kayibanda. After taking office, Twagiramungu was faced with the vexing problem of human rights abuses by the RPF. Like interior minister Seth Sendashonga, he believed there had to be a certain amount of tolerance, but was worried when there seemed to be no end in sight. According to the historian Gérard Prunier who has discussed the issue with Twagiramungu at length, \"The Hutu ministers were so conscious of the potential catastrophe their eventual resignations could cause that they swallowed it all in the name of national unity. Until the Kibeho slaughter pushed them over the brink.\" The tension within the administration came to a head when Twagiramungu called for an \"extraordinary council of ministers on security matters\" which met on 23 August 1995 and ended two days later when Paul Kagame—the \"de facto\" leader of Rwanda and the RPF—made a sardonic comment and left the room. On 28 August, Twagiramungu decided to resign, and four other ministers were fired the next day, including Sendashonga. Twagiramungu was put under house arrest, but managed to leave the country by the end of the year.\n\nIn Brussels in March 1996, Twagiramungu and Sendashonga set up an exiled opposition party called the Democratic Forces for Resistance (). FRD was officially launched in April 1997. On 16 May 1998, Sendashonga, who had survived an earlier attempt on his life, was assassinated in Nairobi. Twagiramungu denounced the murder and accused the Rwandan government of culpability. In 2001, a Kenyan court found that the murder was political and blamed the Rwandan government.\n\nIn 1998, FRD invited four other exiled movements (RDR, , and UNAR) to form the Union of Rwandan Democratic Forces (), which wanted to press for a new power-sharing agreement along the lines of the Arusha Accords, and Twagiramungu was slated to be its president from 1998 to 2002. RNLM and UNAR were both old monarchist parties, seen to represent Tutsi interests, but they soon abandoned the alliance. As president of UFDR, Twagiramungu reportedly worked as if he was alone, creating \"a party within a party\", and was distanced even from the majority of his own party, the FRD. He was also unpopular with the old guard of the RDR \"because of his leading role in the Rwandan opposition to Juvénal Habyarimana's government and his position in the moderate section of the MDR.\" Twagiramungu resigned from the presidency in December 2001 and \"essentially detached himself from the opposition movements\".\n\nOn 10 December 2002, Twagiramungu announced that he would be a candidate in the Rwandan presidential election of 2003. Running on a platform of full employment, regional security, and progressive taxation, he accused the government of attempting to silence his views. He was forced to stand as an independent as his political party, the MDR, was banned. In the final count, he placed second (out of three) with 3.62 percent of the vote. He did not accept the result, claiming that Paul Kagame was leading the country towards a one-party system. The elections were widely condemned as fraudulent by outside observers. Twagiramungu left Rwanda immediately after the election, fearing arrest.\n\nIn 2010, Twagiramungu founded a \"new political trend\" called the Rwandan Dream Initiative (RDI). In early 2014, RDI teamed up with three other parties (PS-Imberakuri, and FDLR) to form the Coalition of Political Parties for Change (CPC). The inclusion of FDLR was a point of controversy. The coalition was reportedly falling apart before the end of the year.\n\nOn 4 April 2014, only two days after Kagame had visited Brussels, Twagiramungu was informed by Belgian police and state security that his life was in danger, and his house was provided with police protection for four days. The Globe and Mail reported that \"there is mounting evidence that Mr. Kagame's agents are involved in organized efforts to kill exiled dissidents\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22439395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22439395", "title": "Flea (musician)", "text": "Flea (musician)\n\nMichael Peter Balzary (born October 16, 1962), known professionally as Flea, is an Australian-American musician, singer and actor. He is best known as the bassist and founding member of the rock band Red Hot Chili Peppers.\n\nFlea briefly appeared as the bassist for such bands as What Is This?, Fear, and Jane's Addiction. He has performed with rock supergroups Atoms for Peace, Antemasque, Pigface, and Rocket Juice & the Moon, and collaborated with Mars Volta, Johnny Cash, Tom Waits, Alanis Morissette, and Young MC. Flea also performed live with Nirvana in 1993 playing the trumpet.\n\nFlea incorporates elements of funk (including slap bass), psychedelic, punk, and hard rock. In 2009, \"Rolling Stone\" readers ranked Flea the second best bassist of all time, behind only John Entwistle. In 2012, he and the other members of Red Hot Chili Peppers were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.\n\nSince 1984, Flea has acted in over 20 films and television series such as \"Suburbia\", \"Back to the Future Part II\" and \"Part III\", \"My Own Private Idaho\", \"The Chase\", \"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas\", \"Dudes\", \"Son in Law\", \"The Big Lebowski\", \"Low Down\", \"Baby Driver\" and \"Boy Erased\", in addition to voicing the character Donnie Thornberry in \"The Wild Thornberrys\" animated television series and films. \n\nFlea is also the co-founder of Silverlake Conservatory of Music, a non-profit music education organization founded in 2001 for underprivileged children. In 2019 Flea will release his book \"\" which will detail his life prior to the formation of Red Hot Chili Peppers.\n\nMichael Peter Balzary was born on October 16, 1962 in the Melbourne suburb of Burwood], Victoria. He is of Hungarian and Irish descent. His father, Mick Balzary, an avid fisherman, often took him fishing. When Flea was four, his family moved to Rye, New York for his father's career. In 1971, his parents divorced and his father returned to Australia. Flea and his siblings stayed with their mother Patricia, who soon remarried a jazz musician. Decades later, Flea would receive American citizenship. He was first called \"Flea\" as a child for his seeming inability to sit still, and the nickname stuck ever since.\n\nFlea's stepfather, Walter Abdul Urban (1941–2011), frequently invited musicians to his house, where jam sessions would often take place. The family moved again to Los Angeles, California, where Flea became fascinated with the trumpet. He had no interest in rock music at the time; he idolized jazz musicians like Miles Davis, Louis Armstrong and Dizzy Gillespie. His stepfather was an \"aggressive alcoholic\", who eventually became involved in shoot-outs with police. \"I was raised in a very violent, alcoholic household\", Flea later said, \"I grew up being terrified of my parents, particularly my father figures. It caused [me] a lot of trouble later in life.\" To cope, Flea began smoking cannabis at 13, and became a daily user.\n\nFlea, who was then nicknamed Mike B. the Flea, attended Fairfax High School, and was somewhat of an outcast due to his taste in music. However, he soon met Anthony Kiedis, and after a brief confrontation, the two became best friends. Kiedis recalled: \"We were drawn to each other by the forces of mischief and love and we became virtually inseparable. We were both social outcasts. We found each other and it turned out to be the longest-lasting friendship of my life.\" Flea was turned on to rock music by Hillel Slovak, and particularly punk rock by Anthony Kiedis. Originally a jazz trumpet player, Flea learned to play bass from Slovak, who shortly after asked him to be a bassist in his band, Anthym. Flea soon developed his own style and joined the group, but quit several months later in order to play for the punk rock outfit Fear. He then rejoined Slovak to form an intended one-off band: Tony Flow and the Miraculously Majestic Masters of Mayhem along with Kiedis and Jack Irons, all of them at the time inspired by the free funk band Defunkt and the hip hop act Grandmaster Flash and The Furious Five.\n\nThe band's concert repertoire grew to nine songs as a result of months of playing at local nightclubs and bars. The Red Hot Chili Peppers entered Bijou Studios to record a demo tape produced by the then-drummer of Fear and subsequently secured a record deal with EMI. Irons and Slovak, however, decided to leave the Red Hot Chili Peppers in order to pursue a \"more serious\" future with rock band What Is This? Flea ultimately respected the decision, but felt the band would be lost without them. He and Kiedis hired drummer Cliff Martinez and guitarist Jack Sherman to fill Irons's and Slovak's places, respectively. Andy Gill, formerly of Gang of Four, agreed to produce their first album. Gill and Sherman clashed with Flea and Kiedis; they continuously argued over music style, sound, and the album's production. Flea himself felt that the album was stiff and \"a big mistake\", but also admitted \"we [he and Kiedis] were just disrespectful and obnoxious\". The band's eponymous debut album, \"The Red Hot Chili Peppers\", was released on 10 August 1984 to largely poor critical and commercial review. After a relatively unfruitful tour, Sherman was fired in early 1985. Slovak, who had been contemplating a return to the Chili Peppers, rejoined the group after being encouraged by Flea.\n\nFunk musician George Clinton was hired to produce the band's second album, \"Freaky Styley\" (1985). The strong chemistry between Clinton and the Chili Peppers was felt instantly. Flea later referred to Clinton as \"the warmest, kindest man in the world\". \"Freaky Styley\" was released in August 1985. It received only a bit more attention than \"The Red Hot Chili Peppers\" with roughly 75,000 copies sold by year's end. Flea was somewhat indifferent to the poor album sales as he had recently proposed to girlfriend Loesha Zeviar, who was pregnant with their child. The band hired Michael Beinhorn, their last resort among potential producers, to work on their next album. What Is This? had finally disbanded, and drummer Irons returned to the Chili Peppers in mid-1986 after Martinez was fired. Flea, Slovak and Kiedis especially were involved in heavy drug use and their relationships became strained. Flea recalled that \"it began to seem ugly to me and not fun; our communication was not healthy\". Kiedis became dependent on heroin, leaving Flea and Slovak to work on much of the album's material by themselves.\n\nKiedis was briefly kicked out of the band, and given a month to rehabilitate. Kiedis completed the rehab and rejoined the Red Hot Chili Peppers in Los Angeles to record their third album \"The Uplift Mofo Party Plan\" (1987). Flea has referred to the album as \"the 'rockingest' record\" the band has ever made. \"The Uplift Mofo Party Plan\" proved to be far more successful, commercially and critically, than the Chili Peppers' preceding albums, registering at number 148 on the \"Billboard\" 200. Following the \"Uplift\" tour, Slovak's drug use dramatically increased. Flea's relationship with Slovak faded, and Slovak became isolated and depressed. On 28 June 1988, Slovak was found dead of a heroin overdose. Flea reflected: \"I didn't really know how to deal with that sadness, and I don't think [Kiedis] knew how to deal with it either.\" Irons, who was taking Slovak's death particularly hard, left the group.\n\nFlea and Kiedis took some time to collect themselves, but kept the band together. Guitarist DeWayne \"Blackbyrd\" McKnight and drummer D.H. Peligro were added, and the band entered the studio to record a new album. McKnight soon began to create tension within the group, as his style did not mesh with the rest of the band. Peligro, the former drummer of the punk rock band Dead Kennedys, was a friend of John Frusciante, an eighteen-year-old guitarist and avid Red Hot Chili Peppers fan. Peligro introduced Frusciante to Flea, and the three jammed together on several occasions. Flea was impressed with Frusciante's skill, and astonished by his knowledge of the Chili Peppers' repertoire. Flea realized that Frusciante could provide the spark McKnight was lacking. McKnight was fired, and Frusciante accepted an invitation to join the band. Peligro was fired shortly thereafter; the Chili Peppers brought in drummer Chad Smith as his replacement.\n\nFlea and his wife Loesha started to grow apart, and he began trying to recreate the memories of his adolescence by smoking marijuana on a daily basis. The Chili Peppers entered the studio, and completed recording of their fourth album, \"Mother's Milk\", in early 1989. Upon release, the album was met with mixed reactions from critics, but received far more commercial attention, peaking at number fifty-two on the \"Billboard\" 200. After this, Flea made appearances playing the trumpet on Jane's Addiction's 1988 album \"Nothing's Shocking\", and bass on the critically acclaimed 1989 Young MC album \"Stone Cold Rhymin'\". He would also appear in the video for \"Bust a Move\", the hit single from the same album.\nThe ensuing \"Mother's Milk Tour\" put even further strain on Flea's marriage. In order to make money, he needed to tour, and therefore spent time away from his family. Furthermore, he and Smith were arrested on charges of battery and sexual harassment after a performance on MTV's coverage of spring break; charges were eventually dropped. The band was, however, attracting over three thousand people per show; \"Mother's Milk\" had been certified as a gold record in early 1990. By the time Red Hot Chili Peppers returned to Los Angeles, Flea and Loesha agreed to a separation. He tried to put the separation out of his mind by smoking marijuana and having sex with random groupies, when the band was on tour for \"Mother's Milk\".\n\nWhen the successful Mother's Milk tour was over, the Red Hot Chili Peppers severed ties with EMI and signed with Warner Bros. Records. Rick Rubin, who had rejected an opportunity to produce \"The Uplift Mofo Party Plan\", agreed to produce their next album. Flea had largely used the principal slap bass technique on the band's preceding four albums, and decided to downplay this style in favor of more conventional, melodic bass lines. To record the album, Rubin suggested they use a mansion that once belonged to magician Harry Houdini. Flea felt it was \"a creatively fertile situation\", and decided to bring his daughter Clara with him. He and the rest of the band, excluding Smith, remained inside the house for the entire recording process. When not writing or recording the album, Flea spent a large portion of his time with Frusciante smoking large quantities of marijuana. The emotions Flea felt during the album's recording were like nothing he had ever experienced:\nWhen \"Blood Sugar Sex Magik\" was released on 24 September 1991, it received an overwhelmingly positive critical response. The album peaked at number three on the \"Billboard\" Hot 200, and went on to sell over seven million copies in the U.S. alone. The album's ensuing tour was critically acclaimed – the Chili Peppers commonly performed shows with over twenty thousand in attendance. Seattle-based grunge band Nirvana also toured with them during the West Coast leg of their United States tour. The massive attention the Chili Peppers started receiving, however, caused Frusciante to feel extremely uncomfortable, and he abruptly quit the band during the Japanese leg of the album's tour.\n\nFollowing the tour in 1993, Flea was diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome and was ordered to rest for a year. Flea and Kiedis felt it best to fire Marshall due to lack of chemistry and briefly replaced him with Jesse Tobias although his tenure was very short and he was quickly replaced by Jane's Addiction guitarist Dave Navarro, who was once recruited in 1992 to replace Frusciante. The band was ready now to record their next album although Kiedis was in the middle of a heroin relapse, which forced Flea to assume the role of lyricist, something he had not yet done. He wrote most of the song \"Transcending\", and the intro to \"Deep Kick\". Flea also wrote the lyrics to an entire song; \"Pea\", in which he both played bass and sang. These three songs appeared on the Chili Peppers' sixth record \"One Hot Minute\", which was released on 12 September 1995. The album received mixed reviews and was significantly less commercially successful than \"Blood Sugar Sex Magik\". The \"One Hot Minute Tour\" was ultimately cut short due to various injuries Kiedis and Smith received, and the Red Hot Chili Peppers decided to go on hiatus. Flea was so miserable that at one point during the tour he discussed quitting the band. Flea began to practice Transcendental Meditation and yoga, and slowly decreased his marijuana consumption. Due to the Chili Peppers' inactivity, Flea joined Navarro in a Jane's Addiction reunion tour in 1997, filling in for ex-Jane's Addiction bassist Eric Avery. Rumors spread, that the band was breaking up until Navarro stated otherwise: \"I want to clarify that the Chili Peppers are not breaking up ... Flea and I are more than happy to do both projects, time permitting.\"\n\nFlea also had plans to record a solo album. He asked Chili Peppers manager Lindy Goetz to help him promote the record and his future solo career. Flea eventually abandoned the idea in favor of offering his bass services to other artists. He performed on over forty records from 1995 to 1998, ranging from Alanis Morissette's \"Jagged Little Pill\" to former Minutemen bassist Mike Watt's debut solo album \"Ball-Hog or Tugboat?\". He also worked with Tori Amos and Michael Stipe on a track for the soundtrack to the 1995 Johnny Depp film \"Don Juan DeMarco\". Navarro was fired from the Chili Peppers in 1998, and Flea questioned whether or not the Red Hot Chili Peppers would stay together: \"... the only way I could imagine carrying on is if we got John [Frusciante] back in the band.\" Frusciante had completed drug rehabilitation in 1997 after a severe addiction to heroin and crack cocaine left him on the brink of death. Flea visited Frusciante in early 1998, inviting him back to the Chili Peppers; an emotional Frusciante readily accepted.\n\nThe band, with Frusciante back on guitar, began writing new songs during the summer of 1998 in Flea's garage. He and Kiedis were less confident in writing the album after the disappointing results of \"One Hot Minute\". Flea had also recently broken up with his girlfriend of two years, Marissa Pouw, causing him to enter a state of depression which was only lifted when his daughter, Clara, comforted him after several weeks of crying.\n\nFlea was heavily influenced by electronica during the writing and recording of \"Californication\" (1999) and he attempted to emulate this when writing bass lines for the album. \"Californication\" took less than two weeks to record; by contrast, \"One Hot Minute\" took over a year. When \"Californication\" was released on 8 June 1999 it received overwhelmingly positive critical reviews and sold fifteen million copies worldwide – more than \"Blood Sugar Sex Magik\". The Chili Peppers played Woodstock 1999, with Flea playing completely naked – something he would do again at the Reading and Leeds Festivals the same year as well as several other \"Californication\" tour concerts.\n\nRed Hot Chili Peppers spent most of 2001 writing their eighth studio album, \"By the Way\" (2002). The entire band began listening to more melodic, textured music, that would reflect heavily on the album. Frusciante became the driving force behind \"By the Way\", causing initial strife between him and Flea. If he introduced a funk rhythm into his bass lines Frusciante would consequently disapprove to the point where Flea almost quit the band because he felt his role was no longer important. \"By the Way\" was released on 9 July 2002 to positive critical reviews. \"By the Way\" would go on to sell over nine million copies worldwide. The ensuing tour was extremely profitable; the Chili Peppers performed three concerts in London's Hyde Park to over 250,000 attendees and a total gross accumulation of US$17.1 million. It became the highest-grossing concert at a single venue in history.\n\nAfter another two-year world tour, the Chili Peppers wrote their ninth studio album \"Stadium Arcadium\" (2006). Unlike \"By the Way\", both Flea and Frusciante were more musically conjoined, when writing the record. They found inspiration in Jimi Hendrix, Jimmy Page, and Eddie Van Halen among others. The double album was ultimately released on 9 May 2006, to generally positive reviews, selling over seven million copies in less than two years. In November 2007, Flea's $4.8 million Corral Canyon home in Malibu was burnt down by a wildfire. The location was not, however, his primary residence and at the time of its destruction was being rented to musician and producer Butch Walker.\n\nAfter the Chili Peppers announced a long hiatus due to exhaustion, Flea enrolled in music classes at the University of Southern California. Beginning in the fall of 2008, he studied music theory, composition and jazz trumpet. Flea attributed his interest in attending such courses to a newfound desire to widen his appreciation and understanding of music: \"it's so much fun to learn this stuff because I never knew anything. I played trumpet in the school bands. I learned things I liked to play on my trumpet but I didn't learn why this note goes with this note and why it produces that sound. Or how to create tension in the composition [...] Knowing the structure is really fun.\" Flea also revealed plans to release a mainly instrumental solo record, recorded in his home; guest musicians include Patti Smith and a choir from the Silverlake Conservatory.\n\nIn 2009, Flea joined Atoms for Peace, a supergroup formed by Radiohead singer Thom Yorke to perform songs from his debut solo album, \"The Eraser\" (2006). The band toured the United States in 2010. After the tour, Atoms for Peace spent three days jamming and recording original material in Los Angeles. This became the band's debut album, \"Amok\"\",\" released on 25 February 2013, through XL Recordings. The album was followed that year by a tour of Europe, the US, and Japan.\n\nThe Chili Peppers ended their hiatus in October 2009 without Frusciante, who quit the band in order to pursue other musical interests. He was replaced by Josh Klinghoffer. The band began rehearsing and writing for their tenth studio album.\n\nIn April 2011, Flea finished second in an online poll conducted by Contact Music to name the best bass guitarist in rock music. Flea lost to the late John Entwistle of the Who. Rounding out the top five were Paul McCartney (the Beatles), Geddy Lee (Rush) and Les Claypool (Primus).\n\nIn June 2011, Flea announced that he was giving away a personally customized bass guitar covered with graffiti and a one-on-one bass lesson as a prize in an eBay auction. The auction will benefit \"Style Wars\", a 1983 documentary on early hip hop. The auction will raise money for restoring the film's negatives. Brad Pitt, James Franco, and Spike Jonze also took part in the auction, which ended on 11 June 2011.\n\nIn a 23 June 2011 interview, Flea discussed the band's return and how he almost quit the Chili Peppers during their hiatus. Flea said, that he just felt like he wanted to take two years away just to really look and see if the band was \"something we should still be doing\". \"Things had gotten dysfunctional and not fun, even though I thought we were making great records, doing great shows and were a really powerful, mighty thing as a band. I was proud of what we did.\" \"For me, the biggest thing during the time off, and what really made me want to continue doing the band, specifically after decided he didn't want to continue in the band anymore, [was] I just realized, Anthony, man, he's my brother, I love him so much, and we started this band when we were kids. I wanted to keep that going, I never want to let that go. Playing with him is something, even though I can do other things that are exciting and beautiful and I always will do those things and I'll always want to grow and do music outside of the band, the thing that we have is special to us and something that is blood.\"\n\nThe Red Hot Chili Peppers released their tenth studio album, \"I'm with You\" on 29 August 2011.\n\nFlea played bass on 2 songs on Tom Waits's 2011 album \"Bad as Me\", released on 21 October.\n\nOn 27 October 2011, it was announced that Flea's side-project with Damon Albarn and afrobeat legend, Tony Allen would be called Rocket Juice & the Moon. According to Albarn, on where the band's name came from, someone in Lagos did the sleeve design and that's the name he gave it, which he said he is fine with, because trying to find a name for another band is always tricky. The band made their live debut on 29 October 2011, in London and their debut album was released in 2012.\n\nOn 7 December 2011, the Red Hot Chili Peppers were announced as 2012 inductees into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Flea commented on the induction by saying, \"It's always been easy for me to pooh-pooh these awards – the [Rock] Hall of Fame too. But I inducted Metallica a couple of years ago, and it was really a beautiful thing to see as all these people were being inducted. It made me love it. I love halls of fame anyway – the Basketball Hall of Fame, the Baseball Hall of Fame. So I feel grateful for the recognition of what we have done and for the hope and potential of what we'll continue to do.\"\n\nThe debut album by Rocketjuice and the Moon was released on 12 March 2012.\nOn 19 July 2012, Flea released a solo EP, \"Helen Burns\", composed mainly of instrumental tracks, except the title track (which Patti Smith sang on) and \"Lovelovelove\", which features the Silverlake Conservatory of Music's kids and adults choir. It is Flea's first solo release, who has only released solo songs previously on soundtracks and other projects. Flea said of the EP \"I am putting it out to raise money for the Silverlake Conservatory of Music, a community based non-profit music school that I am an integral part of.\" The download of the EP is available at \"a name your own price\" on the Silverlake Conservatory website and will be made available through all major digital outlets 9 August 2012.\n\nOn 16 October 2012, his 50th birthday, Flea gave an interview with CNN discussing the Chili Peppers and was asked if he plans to continue with them. Flea responded by saying \"I love the Chili Peppers, and I would love to. If there's anything I know, it's every time you start making plans, you don't know what's going to come up next. Anything can happen. So I love being in the Chili Peppers and it's my home, and I've been doing it for more than half my life. Of course, during the course of doing it, there's been all kinds of ups and downs, and moments of extreme (positivity), floating on clouds of greatness, and times of just groveling, and misery, and uncertainty, and anger, and love and all those things. Like being in a family. I really can't predict. But I love being in it for now, and right now, about as far as I'm thinking is getting through this tour that we're doing, performing at the highest level possible, then hunkering down and writing another record.\"\n\nIt was announced on 1 April 2014 that Flea was in the process of writing his own personal memoir which will be released through Grand Central Publishing. No release date has been set or a title for the book which according to the press release will detail Flea's younger years as a rebellious teenager on the streets of L.A. where he befriends fellow high school classmate, Anthony Kiedis, Hillel Slovak and Jack Irons and forms the Red Hot Chili Peppers. The book will detail his long and sometimes complex friendship and collaboration with Kiedis, his drug usage and the tumultuous creative journey of the band.\n\nOn 9 April 2014, it was revealed that Flea was working on a new musical project titled Antemasque, with former Mars Volta members Cedric Bixler-Zavala, Omar Rodríguez-López, and Dave Elitch. Two songs were released in early April though Flea has confirmed that he is not a member of the band and just recorded a few songs with them. Antemasque released their self-titled debut album on 15 July 2014.\n\nFlea made his return to acting and co-starred in the 2014 film, \"Low Down\", which is based on the life of jazz pianist, Joe Albany. Flea along with Anthony Kiedis executive produced the film which stars John Hawkes, Elle Fanning, Glenn Close, and Peter Dinklage. The film had a successful debut at the Sundance Film Festival in January 2014 and opened in limited release in October 2014. It was released in March 2015 on DVD.\n\nIn February 2015, Flea posted photos to his Instagram page showing that he had broken his arm during a skiing trip. His injury delayed the recording of the Chili Peppers eleventh studio album for six months with production expected to resume in mid-August according to Flea, who said on 3 August, he was now healed enough to play bass again and continue recording.\n\nOn 13 April 2016, Flea performed a bass rendition of \"The Star-Spangled Banner\" before a game at the Staples Center in Los Angeles between the Los Angeles Lakers and Utah Jazz; this was NBA superstar Kobe Bryant's final game.\n\nThe Chili Peppers released their eleventh studio album, \"The Getaway,\" on June 17, 2016. The band embarked on a 151 date world-tour which concluded in October 2017.\n\nIn 2017 Flea appeared in the critically acclaimed movie \"Baby Driver\" which was named one of the top 10 films of the year by the National Board of Review\n\nOn February 16, 2018, Flea took part in the 2018 NBA All-Star Celebrity Game on a team led by Justin Bieber.\n\nFrom 1988 to 1990, Flea was married to Loesha Zeviar (Loesha's name still remains tattooed on Flea's chest). Together they had one daughter, Clara Balzary, who was born in 1988. Clara has been featured in many Chili Peppers books and documentaries including the band's \"Funky Monks\" documentary. She also has appeared at many shows and as a child even provided artwork for the band's T-shirts and promotional material. She has also documented the band's \"I'm With You\" tour through photographs and videos. As an adult, Clara was most recently in the short-lived band the Tints and is also an aspiring artist and photographer, taking the promotional photographs for the new Red Hot Chili Peppers record.\n\nFlea married for the second time in 2005 to model Frankie Rayder who was once named GQ Magazine's sexiest woman in the world. They had their first child together, Sunny Bebop Balzary, who was born on October 26, 2005. The song \"Hard to Concentrate\" on the Chili Peppers' 2006 album, \"Stadium Arcadium\" was written by Kiedis as a wedding proposal to Flea and Rayder.\n\nFlea was close friends with actor River Phoenix and was with him on 31 October 1993, the night he died of a drug overdose, even riding in the ambulance to the hospital with him. The song \"Transcending\" on \"One Hot Minute\" was a tribute to Phoenix written by Flea.\n\nIn the 2011 documentary \"The Other F Word\", Flea discussed the joys of being a father by saying \"It's funny how you always hear people saying that classic parent attitude of, 'I brought you into this world, I gave you life!' You know, it's just, I think, completely the opposite. My kids gave me life. They gave me a reason.\"\n\nFlea is a fan of the Los Angeles Dodgers and Los Angeles Lakers. He can often be spotted sitting courtside at Lakers games with some of his bandmates and has even performed the National Anthem prior to Lakers games. He is also known to be a fan of English football team Sheffield United.\n\nIn February 2018, Flea released a passionate and revealing op-ed through Time magazine about the current Opioid crisis as well as his own personal history of drug addiction which for most of his career he had been very private about. Flea hoped that by exposing his past issues with substance abuse that his stories could possibly help others battling their own addictions and raise more awareness on the need for those in the medical community and the government to help those in need. \"I’ve been around substance abuse since the day I was born. All the adults in my life regularly numbed themselves to ease their troubles, and alcohol or drugs were everywhere, always. I started smoking weed when I was eleven, and then proceeded to snort, shoot, pop, smoke, drop and dragon chase my way through my teens and twenties,\" Flea said. Flea finally kicked his addictions in 1993; however, he revealed that in 2014 when he broke his arm in a snowboard accident he nearly had setbacks due to Oxycontin that his doctor prescribed for him \"My doctor put me back together perfectly, and thanks to him I can still play bass with all my heart. But he also gave me two-month supply of Oxycontin. The bottle said to take four each day. I was high as hell when I took those things. It not only quelled my physical pain, but all my emotions as well. I only took one a day, but I was not present for my kids, my creative spirit went into decline and I became depressed. I stopped taking them after a month, but I could have easily gotten another refill. Addiction is a cruel disease, and the medical community, together with the government, should offer help to all of those who need it.\"\n\nFlea and the Chili Peppers appeared in 1990 PSA ads for Rock the Vote, a non-profit organization created to encourage 18- to 24-year-olds in the United States to vote in the upcoming presidential election.\n\nThe Chili Peppers were invited by the Beastie Boys and the Milarepa Fund to perform at the Tibetan Freedom Concert in June 1996 in San Francisco. They also performed at the June 1998 Washington DC concert as well. The concerts, which were held worldwide, were to support the cause of Tibetan independence.\n\nIn 2001, he founded the Silverlake Conservatory of Music, a school dedicated to help youth progress in music, because of this. \"I just wanted to fill the void that public education has cut from their curriculum. They've dropped the ball by cutting out music programs\", Flea laments, \"I grew up in LA public schools and was in the music department. It was really an important thing for my life, it gave me something to hold onto, and it was an important access for me. Without music I would've gotten into a lot of trouble and there are a lot of kids like me out there. I just wanted to try to provide something like what I got.\" Flea felt the public school system was seriously lacking in exposing children to music by drastically reducing, and sometimes eliminating, art-related programs.\n\nIn September 2005, the Chili Peppers performed \"Under the Bridge\" at the benefit which was held to raise money for victims of Hurricane Katrina. $30 million was raised during the live event which was broadcast across the world on various television networks and online.\n\nIn October 2008, Flea (along with his daughter Sunny Bebop) appeared in a Vote for Change ad voicing his support for Barack Obama for president of the United States in the upcoming election.\n\nOn 20 March 2011, Flea ran the LA Marathon to raise money for the Silverlake Conservatory of Music through Crowdrise. Flea was also featured in \"Runner's World\" magazine discussing his preparation for the race.\n\nThe Chili Peppers performed a free concert in downtown Cleveland, Ohio on 15 April 2012, in support of President Barack Obama's re-election campaign.\n\nOn 11 May 2013, the Chili Peppers performed a special concert in Portland, Oregon for the Dalai Lama as part of the Dalai Lama Environmental Summit. According to the press release, \"The musical element of this event is intended to be a display of joyful celebration and an inspiration to future generations to care for our planet. The Red Hot Chili Peppers have been great supporters of the Tibetan cause, of His Holiness the Dalai Lama, and of the need to work to protect and preserve our environment.\"\n\nOn 19 August 2014, Flea posted a video to his Twitter page where he accepted the Ice Bucket Challenge. Chad Smith did the honors of pouring a trash can of ice water onto Flea.\n\nIn May 2015, Flea reached out to fans to help donate to the Special Olympics. Two lucky fans will be selected to be flown out to meet Flea for private bass lessons. Other prizes such an exclusive T-shirts, personalized video from Flea, tickets to a Red Hot Chili Peppers concert and various autographed items by Flea are available.\n\nFlea took to his Facebook page in anger speaking out about 19 May Santa Barbara oil spill that pumped 100,000 gallons of crude oil into the Pacific Ocean. Flea was at the beach with his young daughter when she stepped in a tar ball. Flea wrote \"Dear plains all American pipeline, my daughter just dared step on the beach for a few minutes where we live about 75 miles from the Santa Barbara oil spill you caused. She got your oil shit product all over her feet.\" Flea stated he can no longer surf there or take his daughter to the beach further saying \"Some kid in the hood who made a mistake selling drugs will go to jail and have his life ruined but you, you evil lying scumbags will get away with a paltry fine that means nothing to you. You could have had a shut off valve but you saved cash there too. You are the worst kind of human beings, I am infuriated you disgust me.\"\n\nFlea has been very outspoken towards guns and gun violence, sometimes speaking about it during Chili Peppers shows. He often expresses his anger on his Twitter page. In 2013, he said \"why anyone would ever want to own an automatic weapon I will never ever understand. it's a pathetic useless concept for sick people. Automatic, semi automatic, I don't care. I'm against em... Melt em all down turn em into sculptures there is no need for them on earth. In many countries, the cops have no guns and they do perfectly fine. No civilians should be allowed to have guns. none. and I don't think the cops should have guns either. change the constitution\". Following the racially motivated Charleston church shooting in June 2015, Flea again voiced his anger towards gun violence saying \"You are kidding me. This is too much. Humans are an over rated species. Sick. God help us.\" and \"The USA land where any sick madman can easily get a gun. disgusting, deplorable, unbelievable.\"\n\nIn August 2015, Flea added an apiary in his backyard which includes three beehives with approximately 60,000 bees each and over 200,000 bees total in his backyard in efforts to restore the honeybee population. Flea commented on his new obsession with beekeeping by saying \"Deep to the hive super organism. I love my bees. Flea’s bees.\"\n\nFlea took part in the \"Pathways to Paris\" concert in December 2015. The all-star event aimed to raise awareness about the urgency of climate action and coincides with the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris.\n\nOn 18 September 2015, Flea and his Chili Peppers bandmates were among over 120 entertainers and celebrities to announce that they would be voting for Bernie Sanders in the 2016 election for President of the United States.\n\nThe Chili Peppers performed at a fundraiser on behalf the non-profit San Diego Foundation on 27 September 2015. All money was donated to ARTS — A Reason To Survive, Heartbeat Music Academy, San Diego Young Artists Music Academy, and the Silverlake Conservatory of Music\n\nFlea along with bandmate Anthony Kiedis hosted an annual benefit for the Silverlake Conservatory of Music on 17 October 2015. The event, which cost $2,500 and was limited to 300 tickets also included dinner and a silent auction. The Chili Peppers performed a rare acoustic set and John Legend headlined the event.\n\nIn February 2016, the Chili Peppers performed at a \"Feel the Bern\" fundraiser in support of presidential candidate Bernie Sanders. Flea said, \"Bernie Sanders is the only remotely reasonable candidate for President of the United States.\" \n\nIn August 2016, Flea paid a visit to see Koko the gorilla and to also raise awareness for \"The Gorilla Foundation\". The foundation said of Flea's visit \"One of Koko's favorite musicians, Flea from the Red Hot Chili Peppers came to visit. Koko was thrilled by the mellow sounds and a jamming session followed with Koko strumming on Flea's bass!\"\n\nIn April 2014, Flea started writing his own book, his memoirs. The book will chronicle Flea's unconventional childhood (including his move from a \"normal\" life in the New York suburbs to a \"bohemian\" lifestyle in Los Angeles with his jazz-playing stepfather), his adventures in the L.A. streets, his \"sometimes complex friendship and collaboration\" with Chili Peppers co-founder Anthony Kiedis and the overall \"tumultuous creative journey\" of the band, which formed in 1983.\n\nIn February 2018, it was announced that Flea's long-awaited book, \"\", would be released on September 25, 2018 however a few months later the release date was pushed back to November 27, 2018. On September 27, 2018, Flea announced on Twitter that his book has been postponed until 2019 saying \"Dear everybody, Due to some scheduling conflicts, the release of my memoir has been delayed until next year. Will have a date as soon as possible. Sorry about any inconveniences.sincerely, flea.\n\nFlea also confirmed that unlike previously mentioned four years earlier, the book would not detail his years with the Red Hot Chili Peppers and focus on his life before the band. “It’s my great hope that it could be a book that could live beyond being a celebrity book or a rock star book and just stand on its own as a piece of literature,” Flea says of Acid for the Children, which he describes not as a memoir, but as an origin story: “It ends where The Red Hot Chili Peppers begins.”\n\nFlea has employed a wide variety of basses over his career with some varying exclusivity, such as Music Man, Modulus, his own brand Fleabass, and Fender Jazz and Precisions.\n\nCurrently, his main stage bass is a Custom Shop Fender Jazz Bass, modified with a Modulus Lane Poor pickup.\n\nAccording to the Flea Bass Rig video he used the following over the years in order of appearance.\n\nFlea toured the Californication record with his signature Modulus Flea basses (Later renamed Modulus Funk Unlimited after the endorsement). He was seen with several designs over this time.\n\nIn 2009, Flea founded The FleaBass company with the goal to create quality budget basses for beginners. Whilst Flea did not perform with his own FleaBass production model he did however use a custom model created by UK artist Damien Hirst.\"Damien actually made me a bass, a butterfly bass, it’s a beautiful thing. \"It’s not just a piece of art to hang on a wall. The whole new album I play on it. This bass is kind of heavy for live — I don’t play Fenders that much live — but it’s beautiful\".The custom FleaBass was built with Lane Poor active pickups, Graphite neck and 18 volt Aguliar OBP-1 preamp.\n\nSeen in the music videos for \"The Getaway\" album.\n\n50 of these basses were made and put on auction for Fleas' school of music, The Silverlake Conservatory of Music with a typical auction price £50,000.\n\nFrom \"The Getaway\" world tour beginning June 2016. Flea was back on the road with three Custom Shop Fender Jazz basses. \nThese basses have a Jazz style body, Lane Poor Legacy pickup, 18 volt Aguliar OBP-1 preamp and a graphite reinforced neck created by Fenders Jason Smith. The Silver Jazz is Fleas' current #1 main tour bass, replacing his Modulus basses in the process.\n\n\nSome of the songs mentioned to have been recorded with different basses were determined by ear, by experienced and knowledgeable bassists, as there was no official information.\n\nAccording to an article in uberproaudio.com, Flea uses these effects units for his trademark sound:\n\n\nFlea endorses bass amplifiers made by Gallien-Krueger.\n\nFlea has displayed a wide variety of techniques throughout the years, ranging from his initial use of slapping and popping to the more traditional methods he has employed since \"Blood Sugar Sex Magik\". Greg Prato of Allmusic wrote that \"by combining funk-style bass with psychedelic, punk, and hard rock, Flea created an original playing style that has been copied numerous times\". Flea stated in an interview, that he was influenced greatly by Louis Armstrong. Flea has been considered one of the greatest bassists of all time, with Greg Tate of \"Rolling Stone\" saying \"if there were a Most Valuable Bass Player award given out in rock, Flea could have laid claim to that bitch ten years running\". Smashing Pumpkins front man Billy Corgan recalls, that when he first saw the Chili Peppers in 1984, \"Flea was playing so aggressively that he had worn a hole in his thumb and he was literally screaming in pain in-between songs because it hurt so bad. Someone kept coming out and pouring crazy glue into the hole.\" Flea's sound is also determined by what type of instrument he plays. Before \"Californication\", he did not believe the actual bass held much significance: \"what mattered was how you hit them [basses] and your emotional intent, and I still think that's the bottom line.\" Flea owns a 1961 Fender Jazz Bass, treasuring it for its \"old wood sound\".\n\nRegarded as one of the best rock bass players of all time, in 2009, \"Rolling Stone\"s readers ranked Flea the second-best bassist of all-time in their top ten poll, ranked behind only John Entwistle and ahead of Paul McCartney. In a 2010 poll, conducted on the BBC Two series \"I'm in a Rock 'n' Roll Band!\", Flea was named the bassist in the ultimate fantasy band alongside Freddie Mercury on vocals, Jimi Hendrix on guitar and John Bonham on drums.\n\nFlea's bass playing has changed considerably throughout the years. When he joined Fear, his technique centered largely on punk rock bass lines; however, he was to change this style when the Red Hot Chili Peppers formed. He began to incorporate a \"slap\" bass style that drew influence largely from Bootsy Collins. However, this technique caused Flea to receive attention from the music world and was often copied, and he, therefore, felt it necessary to almost completely remove slap-bass styles from his repertoire following \"Mother's Milk\" (1989). Consequently, \"Blood Sugar Sex Magik\" (1991) saw a notable shift in style as it featured less of his signature technique and more styles that focused on traditional and melodic roots. His intellectual beliefs on how to play the instrument were also altered: \"I was trying to play simply on \"Blood Sugar Sex Magik\" because I had been playing too much prior to that, so I thought, 'I've really got to chill out and play half as many notes'. When you play less, it's more exciting—there's more room for everything. If I do play something busy, it stands out, instead of the bass being a constant onslaught of notes. Space is good.\"\n\nDuring the writing and recording of \"One Hot Minute\" (1995), Flea integrated some use of slap-bass progressions, but continued to center his technique around the philosophy of \"less is more\" rather than complexity: \"I can't even think of anything I played that was complex [on the record]; even the slapping stuff is simple. It's original-sounding, and I'm proud of that – but what I played was more a matter of aesthetic choice.\" This led Flea to alter the way he wrote music by playing alone, instead of the jam sessions that would dictate how the band conceived songs: \"[\"One Hot Minute\"] is the least jam-oriented record we've made. I mean, we definitely jammed on the ideas, but there's only one groove on the whole album that came from a jam, 'Deep Kick'. The rest of it came from my sitting down with a guitar or bass.\"\n\nFlea became interested in electronica during the \"Californication\" (1999) era and he attempted to emulate the same atmosphere given off by synthesizers into his bass playing: \"I feel the most exciting music happening is electronica, without a doubt.\" He ultimately decided against this, acknowledging that, aside from Frusciante, the band was not moving in the same direction.\n\nIn \"By the Way\" (2002), many of the bass-lines were entirely stripped of funk. Flea felt the chords Frusciante had written were not supportive of his typical technique; furthermore, he does not feel the musical direction of the record was specifically melodic, but instead \"... a result of each one of us being who we are. The way we [the band] compose music is a very communal thing.\"\n\nFlea's stepfather was in a bebop band that frequently jammed in his presence, so he soon became fascinated with the trumpet. Flea credits his continued interest in music to jazz performers like Jaco Pastorius, Miles Davis, Duke Ellington, Charlie Parker, Louis Armstrong, John Coltrane, and Dizzy Gillespie. After Kiedis introduced him to punk and rock, Flea became infatuated with artists such as Black Flag, David Bowie, and Defunkt. Flea's early influences before \"Blood Sugar Sex Magik\" were mainly funk artists. They would become a notable aspect of the Red Hot Chili Peppers' sound up to \"Mother's Milk\". Originally, Flea was given the impression by punk bands, that one should play as hard and fast as they possibly could, but ultimately rejected this philosophy during \"Blood Sugar Sex Magik\": \"I was so into being raw [...] it was all bullshit.\" On \"Californication\" and \"By the Way\", Flea drew influence from electronica, gothic rock bands like the Cure, Joy Division and Siouxsie and the Banshees and new wave music rather than funk. Flea has also spoken highly of Neil Young; he wrote an article for Rolling Stone praising Young for the consistent authenticity in his artistry, among other things\n\nFlea has pursued a minor acting career since the mid-1980s. His first role was as young punk Razzle in the Penelope Spheeris film \"Suburbia\" (1984). Shortly thereafter he starred alongside the Chili Peppers, who played themselves, in the skate drama \"Thrashin'\" (1986). He played the ill-fated punker Milo in another Penelope Spheeris film, \"Dudes\" (1987). He also made an appearance in the Bruce Weber documentary film about the life and career of jazz trumpeter Chet Baker entitled \"Let's Get Lost\" (1988). He portrayed the character Douglas J Needles in \"Back to the Future Part II\" (1989) and \"Back to the Future Part III\" (1990), though in an interview he referred to \"Part II\" as \"a multi-million dollar piece of trash\", saying that he was happy neither with the film nor his performance in it.\n\nFlea played a minor role in the 1991 independent film \"My Own Private Idaho\" as the character Budd. He played a number of minor roles in films throughout the 1990s, including \"Son in Law\" (1993) as a tattoo artist, \"The Chase\" (1994) as a monster truck driver alongside Kiedis, \"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas\" (1998) as a \"Hippie\", in \"The Big Lebowski\" (1998) as a German nihilist, and the 1998 remake of \"Psycho\". He has also lent his voice to the animated series \"The Wild Thornberrys\" as the character Donnie.\n\nIn 1991, the Red Hot Chili Peppers released a black and white film documenting the recording of \"Blood Sugar Sex Magik\" titled \"Funky Monks\". They have released two video concerts, \"Off the Map\" in 2001 and \"Live at Slane Castle\" in 2003—the latter of which had over eighty thousand attendees.\n\nFlea has also appeared in television broadcasts with Red Hot Chili Peppers on several occasions. Several months before Frusciante's departure in 1992, the band performed two songs on \"Saturday Night Live\" – Kiedis felt the show was an embarrassment due to the guitarist; he believed, that Frusciante purposely played the song out of tune and incorrectly. Later that year, the band appeared in the popular animated comedy \"The Simpsons\" on the episode \"Krusty Gets Kancelled\". At Woodstock 1994, Kiedis proposed the band perform the first few songs in metallic suits with giant light bulbs placed on their heads. Flea was initially reluctant but eventually agreed: \"... when we got to play, the energy of the whole thing took over.\"\n\nIn 2011, Flea appeared in the documentary, Bob and the Monster. The film details the life of musician and drug counselor Bob Forrest.\n\nFlea appeared in the documentary \"The Other F Word\", which aired on Showtime and was released through Oscilloscope Laboratories (a company founded by Adam Yauch). The documentary, which was directed by Andrea Blaugrund Nevins, focused on a generation of punk rockers, how they have handled fatherhood, and how they went from public rebel to domestic authority figure. Mark Hoppus, Jim Lindberg, Art Alexakis, and Mark Mothersbaugh were also featured.\n\nThe 2014 film \"Low Down\", also starring Lena Headey, Peter Dinklage, Elle Fanning, and Glenn Close, marked Flea's first acting role in 14 years. The film was directed by Jeff Preiss, who previously worked with Flea on the 1988 documentary \"Let's Get Lost\". In 2015, he provided the voice of the \"mind cop\" Jake in the Pixar film \"Inside Out\".\n\nIn 2015, Flea appeared as himself in the Amazon Prime series, \"Highston\".. It was announced in 2017 that Amazon Prime had cancelled plans for a full series of the show. \n\nIn 2017, Flea played Eddie No-Nose in the critically acclaimed award nominated film, \"Baby Driver\". That same year he had a cameo appearance during the fifteenth season of the FOX animated television series \"Family Guy\" in an episode titled \"Peter's Def Jam\". In a scene where Stewie Griffin said to his dog Brian Griffin that thanks to him, there's a recurring flea problem in Stewie's room, Flea enters and drops a bass line on his guitar. He asks Brian if he wants to hang out, but Stewie kicks Flea out of the room.\n\nFlea co-stars with Lucas Hedges, Nicole Kidman and Russell Crowe in the 2018 film \"Boy Erased\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2070943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2070943", "title": "George de Benneville", "text": "George de Benneville\n\nGeorge de Benneville (London, 25 July 1703 – Pennsylvania, 19 March 1793) was a physician and Christian Universalist preacher.\n\nHe was born in London in 1703 to aristocratic Huguenot French parents in the court of Queen Anne. While serving as a sailor during his adolescent years, de Benneville traveled around the world and began to question his religion and compare it to other world religions. He shed his Huguenot religion, developed his own ideas about Christianity, and became a preacher while still in his teens.\n\nDe Benneville had a mystical experience and later a near death experience which he described in \"The Life and Trance of Dr. George De Benneville\". These experiences convinced him that Hell is for purification, not punishment, and that, ultimately, all will be united with God. He believed that God is absolutely good and in his love would never condemn any human to eternal damnation. He also preached that each human being has a dualistic nature; the outer, flesh-and-blood person is subject to the evils of the world and may choose to do good or to do wrong, while the inner, spiritlike person is crafted by God and is perfect, immaculate, and holy, and cannot be damned. Therefore, all human beings experience salvation. \n\nReligious authorities in several nations were disturbed by evangelists such as de Benneville, and he was sentenced to death more than once. He preached and practiced medicine in France and Germany. After completing medical training in Europe, de Benneville immigrated to the American colonies during the mid-eighteenth century with others seeking religious tolerance. He settled in Pennsylvania and worked as a physician and apothecary in Oley, Berks County, using free time to continue his Universalist preaching.\n\nde Benneville socialized and traded herbal preparations with Native American groups in the area. His beliefs stressed that all people everywhere are loved by God, and cultures, races, and sexes have no bearing on the worth of a human being. His beliefs stated clearly that the physical body is merely one part of a person.\n\nGeorge de Benneville died at home in Pennsylvania in 1793.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1310673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1310673", "title": "Gun moll", "text": "Gun moll\n\nA gun moll (aka gangster moll) is the female companion of a male professional criminal. In some contexts, \"gun moll\" more specifically suggests that the woman handles a firearm.\n\nWhen the term came into usage in the first decade of the 20th century, \"gun\" was not derived from the English word \"gun\", but from the Yiddish word meaning \"thief\", variously transliterated into English as ganef, gonif, or goniff, itself derived from Hebrew \"Ganav\" (גנב). However, this distinction gradually disappeared, especially when such women became associated with gangsters noted for their frequent use of guns.\n\n\"Moll\" derives from \"Molly\", used as a euphemism for \"whore\" or \"prostitute\" and attested at least since 17th century England. It is also worth noting that \"molly\" is a term for a female cat, though it is much more rarely used than \"tom\" is for males.\n\nIn the U.S., the term has mostly been applied to a woman associating with an American gangster of the 1920s and 1930s, and in most cases remarkable only because of his notoriety. Extended use of the term without awareness of the Yiddish root, however, has invited interpretations of \"gun\" as suggesting more than simply criminal associations. Bonnie Parker and Blanche Barrow were gun molls in this stronger sense, and especially notable examples in general, because of their accompanying the rest of the Barrow Gang to the planned locations of violent crimes, and, in Parker's case, apparently directly assisting at least to the extent of loading guns in the midst of shootouts.\n\nProminent, true-life gun molls (and the men they were associated with) include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51744644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51744644", "title": "Günther Johannes Paetsch", "text": "Günther Johannes Paetsch\n\nGünther Johannes Paetsch (September 24, 1929 – April 30, 1997), a native of Germany, was a cellist and co-founder of the Paetsch Family Chamber Music Ensemble in Colorado Springs, Colorado, United States. He is the husband of violinist Priscilla Paetsch and the father of their seven children.\n\nGünther Johannes Paetsch was born on September 24, 1929 in Stuttgart, Germany, the son of Heinrich Karl Willy Paetsch; (1892–1970) and Helene Marie (née Matt; 1889–1942) in the Württembergische Landeshebammenschule (a clinic in Baden-Württemberg where midwives are trained). Shortly afterwards he went home and then into the children's hospital (the Kinderklinik was near Senefelderstraße), when he got diphtheria. He, like all native Swabians, grew up speaking Schwäbisch, as the (Swabian German) dialect was spoken in much of the southwestern German state of Baden-Württemberg. He was often heard saying things like \"Guts Nächtle\", which would be the equivalent of Gute Nacht in High German (or \"good night\" in English). Günther was one of the first sons to be born to a couple in The Christian Community church in Stuttgart that was inspired by Rudolf Steiner. Although not professional musicians, both his parents were musicians. His mother played the piano and his father played the cello. He had an older sister, Irmgard Elisabeth Paetsch (1925–1998), a pianist who taught in Stuttgart.\n\nPaetsch was very young during World War II in Stuttgart, and everything in his parents' home and its surroundings were destroyed by the aerial bombing. Stuttgart, like many cities in Germany, was left nearly flattened after the war, having been air raided at least 53 times during the nights, which destroyed 68% of the city. \n\nOn November 22, 1942, Paetsch's mother, Helena Maria, died while she was in the hospital as southern Stuttgart was attacked by 191 aircraft during a bombing raid in the early morning hours. The next night, there was a big bombing raid with search lights all over the sky looking for the airplanes, and ground forces firing back. Paetsch was 13 years old at the time. His maternal grandfather, Friedrich Matt, died on December 19, 1940 when their home was bombed during World War II. His aunt Mina Hedwig (Paetsch) Böttger also died in a bomb attack on September 13, 1944 in Stuttgart. \n\nPaetsch started studying the cello in 1942, during World War II, with a teacher who came wearing his uniform, but eventually the teacher was transferred.\n\nPaetsch then studied the cello with the German principal cellist Wilhelm Hadelich from 1946/7 until 1950. Because almost everything was destroyed, he taught Paetsch while sitting on potato crates in the ruins of the war, and as Hadelich's children (Sigismund and Valeska) were then babies, they were surrounded by the smells of diapers. Everything was done by heart, as there was no printed music to be found at this time of utter poverty and deprivation. Hadelich was as much a genius on the piano as on the cello.\n\nPaetsch later took lessons with the Spanish cellist Gaspar Cassadó in Tübingen, Germany, who only taught two students privately during in 1956-58. He didn't ask for money for the lessons, but would teach and then go to the café for coffee.\n\nPaetsch was educated with \"Abitur\" or \"Reifezeugnis\" (\"certificate of maturity\"), the prerequisite for matriculation at a German university in the subjects of science, mathematics and languages from the First Waldorf School in Stuttgart, Germany. He finished this degree in July 1950. Later in July 1954, Günther received his Diplom (M. A. \"Diploma Kaufmann\"), a business degree in accounting, business administration and finances from the University of Munich in Germany. In July 1958 Günther Johannes Paetsch received his M. A. in Law and First Bar Examination (Erste Juristishe Staatsprüfung), at the University of Tübingen.\n\nHe obtained working experience from 1953 until 1956, with some interruptions to earn a master's degree at the Robert Bosch GmbH in Stuttgart (which had around 28000 employees), as a mathematician in the Department of Corporation insurance. Later he became manager in the Department of Personnel, where he organised, staffed and directed a department of 480 employees. He was responsible for all administrative, planning and cost functions of technical and professional employees.\n\nEventually he became manager of the department of materials control where he was responsible for purchases of electrical parts, material and special metal alloys, long range planning, and contract negotiations. The monthly purchase volume was circa $1 million. He supervised 35 employees. From September 1958 to October 1959 Paetsch was an assistant district Judge in the Department of Justice of the State Baden-Württemberg, Stuttgart, and then in the district court in Bad Cannstatt, Germany.\n\nDuring this time Paetsch was also solo cellist in various orchestras in München, Stuttgart, and Tübingen. In Tübingen he worked with the conductor in the orchestra and gained a deep knowledge of the works of Johann Sebastian Bach. During this time he was also a first-rate photographer and an avid mountain-climber.\n\nIn Tübingen on February 21, 1957, Paetsch (then 28) met the young 26-year-old American violinist Priscilla McClure Johnson, who was on a world tour at the time, and they fell in love. Paetsch came to the United States in 1959 not only to see where and how Priscilla grew up (she also trained Polish-bred registered Arabian horses), but also to marry her. They married on May 24, 1959 in Colorado Springs, followed by a two-month long honeymoon on the top of the continental divide in the Colorado Rocky Mountains, on horseback. It was on this pack trip with three horses that he learned to ride a horse. He also grew a long full beard and looked like a real cowboy, and there are stories that say he looked like a wild Mexican (because he spoke a language other than English). \n\nHis first job in the US was as a horse riding instructor and soccer teacher at the Lowell Whitman School in Steamboat Springs in 1959 after his honeymoon.\n\nFrom November 1959 until September 1960 he worked as a \"law-editor\" at Shepard's Citations in Colorado Springs. He pursued private studies from 1960 to 1961 in comparative law and business administration at the University of Colorado in Boulder.\n\nGünther Paetsch was principal cellist in the Colorado Springs Symphony Orchestra through three conductors: Walter Eisenburg, Harold Farberman and Charles Ansbacher. He was also principal cellist of the Chamber Soloists of Colorado Springs, the Baroque Players, the Colorado Springs Opera, the Colorado College Orchestra, and the Orchestra in Grace Church. \n\nHe was a founding member and cellist of the string trio called the Sebastian Players, which included Jim Boratgis on the viola and Priscilla Paetsch on the violin. Paetsch was appointed \"visiting professor of cello\" at the Colorado College during 1970-71 and 1978-79. He taught as Instructor in the Strings from 1972-73. He also taught cello privately at his home, \"Cosmic Heights,\" in Colorado Springs.\n\nHe played as soloist in the premiere performance of the Chamber Soloists of Colorado Springs conducted by Charles Ansbacher, playing the Boccherini Cello Concerto in B flat Major on 30 October 1970 in the Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center.\n\nIn 1969 Paetsch invented defibrillators and temperature control devices for truck refrigeration. He also sold mutual funds and water conditioners. As president and general manager of the firm American Instrumentation Corporation he developed and produced scientific test instruments that were to be used in supersensitive temperature and humidity control devices. These included gun detection devices and new concepts for burglar alarm and fire alarm systems. In cooperation with the Federal grassland studies, he developed a plant growth chamber for photosynthesis measurements, together with an automatic solid state multi-channel gas separator to study gas emissions from plants under natural, yet precisely controlled conditions. Among other biological and physiological instruments ready for production was the first solid state laboratory stimulator to study nerve potentials and intercellular potentials of cardiac cells for physiological research, pacemakers for heart stimulators, cardiac defibrillators and micro electrode pullers for making both glass micro-electrodes with points from 1 to 3 microns and micro-glass tips for embryo-logical research.\n\nPaetsch had seven children in eleven years (1960-1971). His first child, Phebe Verena Paetsch, was born in 1960 in Denver, Colorado. Michaela Modjeska Paetsch was born in 1961 in Colorado Springs, as were Brigitte McClure Paetsch in 1963, Johann Sebastian Paetsch in 1964, Christian Friedeman Paetsch in 1966, Engelbert Raphael Paetsch in 1968, and Siegmund Amedeus Paetsch in 1971. \n\nNot only were Gunther and Priscilla professional musicians, but their seven children (three girls and four boys) all learned to play string instruments as well. They eventually formed their own nine-piece group called the Paetsch Family Chamber Music Ensemble. With this group, he and Priscilla taught, rehearsed, and performed with their children most of the chamber music from duos to nonets in and throughout the Colorado area. \n\nFive of the siblings are now professional musicians. Michaela, the second oldest, broke new ground by joining the Colorado Springs Symphony Orchestra at age 13, making her the youngest member ever. At one time, there were five Paetsch family members playing alongside each other in the orchestra. Michaela and her mother Priscilla shared a music stand. Johann, the fourth oldest and oldest son, joined the Colorado Springs Symphony when he was 13, as its youngest cellist ever. Brigitte, the third child, also joined soon after to play in the violin section.\n\nThe Paetsch Family Chamber Music Ensemble has performed classical music for thousands of Coloradans throughout the state, and especially for the residents of Colorado Springs, including thousands of school children since they were big enough to hold an instrument. The ensemble gave concerts for fund-raising projects and to the community in the Penrose Public Library, in the Fine Arts Centre, for the Ute Symphony Guild, on television, for numerous churches and civic organizations, and for the City of Colorado Springs in its celebration of Heritage Day at the old courthouse. They also gave the first live presentation of classical music in the history of Colorado Springs on KKFM Radio.\n\nThe Paetsch family performed to enthusiastic audiences at the University of Colorado in Boulder, at the Colorado Women's College in Denver, at the Fine Arts Center in Pueblo, with the Jefferson Symphony in Golden, and at Adams State College in Alamosa, where they received standing ovations. In Canon City they gave performances in the new community center, and in Steamboat Springs they gave the opening classical concert in the new performing arts theater. The \"Rocky Mountain News\" wrote that \"one had to be amazed, that everything was performed so well. The audience responded with a standing ovation before intermission. The group had won the hearts of the audience.\" The \"Pueblo Chieftain wrote\": \"The Paetsch Family is truly gifted in terms of discipline, talent and the desire to give of themselves. It is amazing to see members of a family who have learned to play together with total accuracy and sensitivity.\" In recognition of their services to the community the family was nominated for the American Musical Family Award given by the American Music Conference.\n\nAt one time, the name \"Paetsch\" was the biggest name in classical music in Colorado Springs... and the most numerous. Gunther and Priscilla Paetsch played cello and violin, respectively, for the Colorado Springs Symphony Orchestra. They, at home, for and with their seven children, formed a string ensemble that took classical music all over the city. They played concerts three times a day for weeks for schools, for nursing homes, for retirement villages, and for hospitals, playing over 300 concerts some years. The children's teachers were not so happy about them missing so much school.\n\nGünther and Priscilla built their house on the west side of Colorado Springs (in upper Skyway) in 1967 and called it \"Cosmic Heights\". They lived there with their five children at that time. It was, and is, a beautiful house with an unforgettable view overlooking the city. \n\nThey also raised and trained purebred registered Arabian horses of Polish bloodlines for pleasure. Most of these Arabians were born at their house, and at one time the Paetsches had as many as 11 horses. They also raised purebred German Shepherd dogs (a litter each year).\n\nGunther was also an excellent photographer. He did all the development and enlarging of negatives and prints in his own darkroom in the basement of Cosmic Heights, and his photos were often published in various magazines and newspapers. He was ahead of the times, and as many people were schooled in a very formal environment where it was only proper to call the elders by their last names, he wanted to be called Gunther.\n\nIn 1994 he retired playing the cello in the Colorado Springs Symphony Orchestra, now known as the Colorado Springs Philharmonic Orchestra, for health reasons (he acquired pneumonia and severe chronic fibrosis of the lungs). He died at the age of 67 on 30 April 1997 in Colorado Springs.\n\nPriscilla Paetsch recently retired from the Colorado Springs Philharmonic. \n"}
{"id": "25665767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25665767", "title": "Harald Haas (Pirate Party)", "text": "Harald Haas (Pirate Party)\n\nHarald \"Harry\" Haas (born 19 May 1990) from Vienna is an Austrian software developer, politician, and was leader of the Pirate Party of Austria from December 2007 till February 2011.\n\nHaas visited the Höhere Technische Lehranstalt for information technology and networking, based at the Ungargasse school center in Vienna. He is also a member of the \"eSport Verband Österreich\" (esvö), an Austrian eSports organization.\n"}
{"id": "59034155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59034155", "title": "Henri Laupmaa", "text": "Henri Laupmaa\n\nHenri Laupmaa (born 14 March 1975) is Estonian IT enerpreneur and board member of Estonian Fund for Nature.\n\nHe has studied international management in Concordia International University Estonia and Concordia University Wisconsin (BA, 1997) and graphics design in Estonian Art Academy.\n\nHenri Laupmaa founded Let's Do It World a movement to clean up the world's environment of illegal trash and has taken part of TEDx Tallinn conference organizing from its start in 2009. Member of the Estonian President's Though Council from 2012 to 2016.\n\nFounded the first creative crowdfunding platform in Estonia called Hooandja in 2012.\n\nFounded the equity crowdfunding platform Fundwise in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "18832011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18832011", "title": "Henri M. Robicheau", "text": "Henri M. Robicheau\n\nHenri M. Robicheau (September 12, 1838 – May 4, 1923) was a farmer and political figure in Nova Scotia, Canada. He represented Digby County in the Nova Scotia House of Assembly from 1874 to 1890 as a Liberal member.\n\nHe was born in Meteghan, Nova Scotia, the son of Bonaventure Robicheau, of Acadian origin, and Celeste Leblanc, and was educated in Clare. \n\nHe was involved in the lumber business. He served as a captain in the militia. In 1891, he was named to the province's Legislative Council. \n\nRobicheau died in Maxwellton in Digby County, Nova Scotia.\n\nIn 1866, he married Madeline Leblanc in 1866. Robicheau married Chantal Robicheau in 1875 several months after the death of his first wife. \n\n"}
{"id": "52295340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52295340", "title": "James Dale Ritchie", "text": "James Dale Ritchie\n\nJames Dale Ritchie (November 4, 1976 – November 12, 2016) was an American serial killer. Throughout 2016, he murdered upwards of five individuals in and around Anchorage, Alaska, most of whom were in parks or along bike paths. Ritchie was killed during a shootout with officers of the Anchorage Police Department in downtown Anchorage on November 12, 2016. Following his death, a Colt Python handgun on his person connected him to the string of murders he committed throughout the year.\n\nJames Dale Ritchie was born on November 4, 1976. He grew up in the Wonder Park neighborhood of Anchorage. He attended East Anchorage High School, where – standing at – he was noted as being a standout athlete, having played on the 1994 state championship football and basketball teams alongside future professional athletes Trajan Langdon and Mao Tosi. Ritchie was a close friend of Quincy and Bobby Thompson, whose family hosted him often throughout his teenage years.\n\nRitchie scored 1200 on his SAT, was recruited by the West Virginia University football team and left for college in 1994, one day following the death of Quincy. He subsequently fell out of contact with the Thompson family.\n\nAfter a semester at West Virginia University, Ritchie dropped out and returned to Alaska, and became involved in the drug trade and dog fighting in 1995. By 1998, Ritchie was an active drug dealer and had adopted the street name \"Tiny\". Over the following seven years, Ritchie was arrested a number of times, predominantly for drug-related offenses. He was arrested for the last time in Alaska in 2005, when he was apprehended while committing home invasion, with plastic handcuffs and two handguns in his possession. After serving two years in custody, he resided in Alaska, during which time he acquired a Colt Python handgun. In 2013, he lent his handgun over to an acquaintance and moved to Broadway, Virginia, where his parents had been living at the time. Save for a pair of moving violations, Ritchie had no court appearances and was observed by the police as being a law-abiding citizen.\n\nFollowing a breakup with his girlfriend, Ritchie returned to Alaska in March 2016. He reacquired the Colt Python from his acquaintance and moved to Airport Heights, where he stayed before moving to Penland Parkway trailer park in Anchorage. Ritchie sought mental health treatment, though the Anchorage Police Department could not ascertain if he had received a diagnosis.\n\nRitchie committed his first two confirmed murders during the early morning hours of July 3, 2016, when he shot 21-year-old Brianna Foisy and 41-year-old Jason Netter Sr. The two bodies were discovered together along a bike path near Ship Creek by a bicyclist at 7:45 a.m. Netter was noted for having extensive run-ins with the law, often regarding his drug-related activity, as well as child support issues with his two daughters, one of whom changed her name. Foisy was homeless and had fallen into substance abuse as well, denying intervention offered by her adoptive mother, Marcella Foisy. The nature of Foisy and Netter's relationship – if any – was not determined or disclosed.\n\nOn July 5, the deaths of Foisy and Netter were ruled a double homicide by the Anchorage Police Department (APD). After reviewing hours of surveillance footage, the APD released images of two unidentified men who were persons of interest for the investigation.\n\nThe third recorded murder committed by Ritchie took place 26 days later, on July 29. Shortly after 3 a.m., Ritchie shot 21-year-old Treyveonkindell Thompson, the son of his childhood friend Bobby Thompson, multiple times while he was riding his bicycle home from work, between Duben Avenue and Bolin Street in East Anchorage. Three girls who had spotted Ritchie lingering in the woods near Bolin Street through their window just prior heard the sound of gunfire and witnessed him grabbing Thompson's bicycle. Ritchie rode the bicycle away from the scene and brought it to his home, where it was spotted but not identified as being involved in a crime by witnesses. The police arrived at Bolin Street, where they found Thompson, who was pronounced dead at the scene shortly after. Under Sergeant Slawomir Markiewicz's direction, witnesses were interviewed and enough testimonials were given that a composite sketch of the suspect – who would later be positively identified as Ritchie – was created. Shortly after Thompson's murder, the Alaska State Crime Lab confirmed that the same murder weapon responsible for Foisy and Netter's murders was also responsible for Thompson's murder.\n\nDuring the early hours of August 28, Ritchie shot dead 34-year-old Kevin Turner and 25-year-old Bryant De Husson in Valley of the Moon Park. An unidentified female passerby who was walking through the park discovered De Husson's body along the trail at 1:42 a.m. Shortly after arriving, police discovered Turner's bullet-riddled body under the pavilion in the park. Turner, suffering from schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, was homeless at the time, as he had not fared well at assisted living facilities recently. De Husson, a notable environmental activist in Anchorage, was thought by his father, Gordon De Husson, to be doing a late-night bicycle ride on his new Schwinn to meet a friend, when he came upon the fatal encounter between Ritchie and Turner. There was no relation between De Husson and Turner. In the police report, the APD noted that very little evidence was left at the scene of the crime. However, the Alaska State Crime Lab confirmed that the weapon used to kill Turner and De Husson had also been used in the Foisy, Netter, and Thompson homicides.\n\nRecognizing a \"modus operandi\" displayed by the string of murders, the APD released an advisory notice for citizens to avoid isolated trails after dark. Following the murders of Turner and De Husson, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) was brought on to assist with the investigation. On September 6, Anchorage Mayor Ethan Berkowitz hosted a press conference that asserted that gang violence was largely responsible for the record-breaking number of murders in the city, though he refused to acknowledge the evidence lending credibility to the serial killer theory. The FBI offered a $10,000 reward leading to the apprehension of the suspect responsible for Thompson's murder, while refusing to comment on any connection to the other murders, due to the concern that acknowledging that a weapon tying all the crimes together would run the risk of prompting the killer to dispose of it. The joint APD and FBI task force subsequently received upwards of 175 tips over the following two months – at least one of which pertained to Ritchie.\n\nFollowing Thompson's murder, his mother, Mandy Premo, had conducted an independent investigation to discover her son's killer. After searching homeless camps and low-income neighborhoods, Premo claimed to have located an armed Ritchie near the Alaska Regional Hospital in October 2016. Premo claimed to have contacted the APD lieutenant and reported that she had found her son's killer. She claimed to have contemplated over the phone confronting Ritchie directly, which the lieutenant advised against, as he was armed and her infant child was in the car.\n\nRitchie was killed near the corner of 5th Avenue and Cordova Street in Anchorage during a gunfight with Officer Arn Salao and Sergeant Marc Patzke of the APD on November 12, 2016. Officer Salao, while responding to an unrelated report of unpaid taxi cab fares, spotted Ritchie walking down the street at 4:30 a.m. Salao pulled up alongside Ritchie and asked if he had spotted the crime. Ritchie continued walking prompting Salao to repeat the question over his megaphone. Without warning, Ritchie drew his Colt Python and opened fire on Salao, hitting him at least four times, which resulted in damage to his bones, intestines and liver. Salao exited his patrol car and returned fire while also engaging Ritchie in a physical confrontation. Simultaneously, Sergeant Patzke of the K9 Unit spotted the confrontation and fired upon Ritchie, who was killed by a number of gunshot wounds. Salao was taken to an area hospital, where he was moved out of the intensive care unit after seven hours of surgery.\n\nFollowing Ritchie's death, the Colt Python on his person was sent to the Alaska Crime Lab, where it was confirmed to have been the murder weapon responsible for the deaths of Brianna Foisy, Jason Netter Sr., Treyveonkindell Thompson, Kevin Turner and Bryant De Husson. The investigative task force had not considered Ritchie a suspect, due to his lack of run-ins with the law over the decade prior.\n\nAfter seventy-eight hours of investigation and contacting the victims' families, APD Chief Chris Tolley hosted a press conference in which he announced the connection between the homicides and the attempt on Officer Salao's life. Additionally, Lieutenant John McKinnon confirmed that the investigation had revealed a connection between the murders, but the task force withheld it from the public out of concern that Ritchie would have disposed of the Colt Python had he realized it was being sought. The weapon, which had been purchased in 1971, was not registered to Ritchie; the original owner was questioned by the APD, with the intent of discovering how it found its way into Ritchie's possession. Ritchie was immediately identified as being the assailant responsible for Thompson's murder, due to the witnesses and the identification of his photo identification matching the composite sketch. While the APD continued to collect evidence implicating Ritchie's involvement in the other homicides tied to the Colt Python, the FBI looked to trace Ritchie's activities in Virginia and Nevada prior to returning to Alaska in 2016.\n\nOn April 26, 2017, APD spokesperson Renee Oistad announced that sufficient probable cause was determined to confirm that Ritchie was solely responsible for the five murders and, therefore, a confirmed serial killer. Investigators had traced the Colt Python handgun's whereabouts back to confirm that it had found its way into Ritchie's possession prior to the murders of Foisy and Netter in July 2016. With Oistad's announcement, the cases were closed. A month later, on May 23, the Anchorage Police Department released dashcam footage recorded just prior to Ritchie and Salao's confrontation, as well as details pertaining to Ritchie's personal history.\n\nThrough ballistics, Ritchie's Colt Python was connected with four crime scenes that include two double homicides, one homicide and the attempted murder of a police officer. The victims include:\n\n"}
{"id": "53952760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53952760", "title": "Jean-Chrisostôme Imbert", "text": "Jean-Chrisostôme Imbert\n\nJean-Chrysostome Imbert (1779–1855) was a Haitian politician, chief financial officer, in charge of executive power as interim president.\n\nJean-Chrisostôme Imbert was Chief Financial Officer. Under the political regime of Alexander Pétion, he was entrusted with the executive power in the southern part of the island of Haiti during the partition of the country between the North, in the hands of Henri Christophe, and the South under the presidency of Petion.\n\nHe was on three occasions interim president of Haiti and Minister of Finance under the united Republic of Haiti.\n\nJean-Chrisostôme Imbert was Minister of Finance at several times:\n\n\nJean-Chrisostôme Imbert assumed the office of the executive power as interim president:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "965700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=965700", "title": "Jill Gascoine", "text": "Jill Gascoine\n\nJill Gascoine (born 11 April 1937) is a British actress and novelist. She is best known for her role as Detective Inspector Maggie Forbes in the 1980s television series \"The Gentle Touch\" and its spin-off series \"C.A.T.S. Eyes\". In the 1990s, she also became a novelist and has published three books.\n\nGascoine began her acting career in theatre in the 1960s and had regular roles at the Dundee Repertory Theatre. She was also an actress in the Downfield Musical Society in Dundee. Her early work also included collaborations with future film and television director Ken Loach.\n\nFrom 1970 onwards, Gascoine began appearing on television in series such as \"Z-Cars\", \"General Hospital\", \"Rooms\", \"Dixon of Dock Green\", \"\" and \"Within These Walls\". She had a part in the British sex-comedy \"Confessions of a Pop Performer\" (1975) and then had a recurring role playing Letty Gaunt in the BBC period drama \"The Onedin Line\" (1976–79).\n\nShe became better known in 1980 when she took the lead role in the ITV drama series \"The Gentle Touch\", playing Detective Inspector Maggie Forbes. This was the first British television drama that centred on a female police officer, coming several months before the BBC's similarly themed \"Juliet Bravo\". \"The Gentle Touch\" was a huge ratings hit in the UK and ran for five series until 1984, though Gascoine continued to play Maggie Forbes in the more action-oriented spin-off series \"C.A.T.S. Eyes\" from 1985-87. Following this, she then appeared as Judy Schwartz in the final series of the sitcom \"Home to Roost\" (1989–90) opposite John Thaw, and continued to make guest appearances on British television. She also appeared in the film \"King of the Wind\" (1990) opposite Richard Harris and Glenda Jackson.\n\nAfter a high-profile career that had spanned over twenty years on British television, Gascoine and her second husband, actor Alfred Molina, moved to Los Angeles in the 1990s. Since moving there, Gascoine has made appearances on US television in series such as \"Northern Exposure\" and \"Touched by an Angel\", as well as performing extensively in theatre. Though she still lives in Los Angeles, she returned to the UK in 2008 to perform at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in the play \"Sister Cities\" at the Gilded Balloon Theatre.\n\nIn October 2009, it was announced that Gascoine was joining the BBC One soap opera \"EastEnders\". She was to play the role of Glenda Mitchell, former wife of Archie Mitchell and mother of Ronnie and Roxy, from early 2010. However, during her first day on set, she withdrew from her filming commitments, as she felt that she \"lacked the right experience to film such a big continuing drama\". The part was re-cast with Glynis Barber.\n\nIn the 1990s, Gascoine began a career as a novelist. Her first novel was \"Addicted\" (1994), about a successful television actress in her fifties who embarks on a destructive affair with a younger, half-English/half-Spanish actor in his thirties (Gascoine's real-life husband Alfred Molina is an English actor of Italian/Spanish descent and is 16 years her junior). This was followed by her second novel, \"Lilian\" (1995), about a woman who begins a love affair when she goes on holiday to California with her best friend.\n\nHer third novel was \"Just Like A Woman\" (1997), which details the story of Daisy, a middle-aged woman who is being pressured by her family to have an abortion after she falls pregnant in her fifties.\n\nGascoine has been married twice. Her first husband was Dundee hotelier Bill Keith, with whom she had two sons. However, the marriage ended in the 1960s. Gascoine was then left to bring up her two sons alone and has not seen Keith since they divorced.\n\nIn 1982, she met actor Alfred Molina when they were both working in the same theatre production. They later married in Tower Hamlets, London, in 1986. \n\nGascoine has suffered from clinical depression for most of her life, which she believes stems from her unhappy time in a boarding school as a child.\n\nIn 1997, Gascoine was diagnosed with kidney cancer, though the disease was detected early and she made a full recovery. \n\nIn June 2013, Gascoine publicly revealed that she has Alzheimer's disease, at a Beverly Hills gala which was set up to raise money to fight the disease. In November 2016 her husband Alfred Molina reported that she was \"in a very advanced stage of Alzheimer's\", and had been in a specialist care home for over two years.\n"}
{"id": "49478804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49478804", "title": "Kassim Nakibinge", "text": "Kassim Nakibinge\n\nKassim Nakibinge is a businessman and bank executive in Uganda. He is the managing director and chief executive officer of Cairo International Bank, a commercial bank in the country.\n\nHe was born in the Central Region of Uganda circa 1966. His father is Badru Kakungulu (died 1991), a paternal uncle to Muwenda Mutebi II, the reigning Buganda monarch (since 1993).\n\nHe studied at Kabojja Preparatory School and Savio Junior School for his primary education. He attended St. Mary's College Kisubi for his O-Level studies, and Kibuli Secondary School for his A-Level education. He was admitted at the United States International University in San Diego, California to study business administration, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts in business administration. He pursued postgraduate education at the University of Wales in Cardiff, graduating with a Master of Business Administration degree, majoring in finance. In 2014, the University of Lahore in Pakistan bestowed upon him an honorary Doctor of Philosophy degree in recognition of his contribution to the promotion of the education of Muslims in Uganda.\n\nIn 1989, he the joined Bank of Uganda as a banking officer, working there until he retired in 2005 as a senior principal banking officer. He then joined Tropical Bank as an acting managing director and he later served as an executive managing director, resigning from that institution in 2013. In February 2016, he was appointed managing director at Cairo International Bank.\n\nHe serves as the \"titular head\" of the Moselems in Uganda. Nakibinge is a married father.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10194693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10194693", "title": "Labor spying in the United States", "text": "Labor spying in the United States\n\nLabor spying in the United States has involved people recruited or employed for the purpose of gathering intelligence, committing sabotage, sowing dissent, or engaging in other similar activities, in the context of an employer/labor organization relationship. Spying by companies on union activities has been illegal in the United States since the National Labor Relations Act of 1935. According to the AMA, nearly 80% of major US companies actively spy on their employees.\n\nStatistics suggest that, historically, trade unions have been frequent targets of labor spying. Labor spying is most typically used by companies or their agents, and such activity often complements union busting. In at least one case, an employer hired labor spies to spy not only upon strikers, but also upon strikebreakers that he had hired.\n\nSidney Howard observed in 1921 that the labor spy, \"often unknown to the very employer who retains him through his agency, is in a position of immense strength. There is no power to hold him to truth-telling.\" Because the labor spy operates in secret, \"all [co-workers] are suspected, and intense bitterness is aroused against employers, the innocent and the guilty alike.\"\n\nHistorically, one of the most incriminating indictments of the labor spy business may have been the testimony of Albert Balanow (some sources list the name as Ballin or Blanow) during an investigation of the detective agencies' roles during the Red Scare. Albert Balanow had worked with both the Burns Detective Agency and the Thiel Detective Agency. Balanow testified that the Red Scare was all about shaking down businessmen for protection money. \"If there is no conspiracy, you've got to make a conspiracy in order to hold your job.\"\n\nThe sudden exposure of labor spies has driven workers \"to violence and unreason\", including at least one shooting war.\n\nLabor spies are usually agents employed by corporations, or hired through the services of union busting agencies, for the purpose of monitoring, disempowering, subverting, or destroying labor unions, or undermining actions taken by those unions.\n\n[The labor spy] capitalizes the employer's ignorance and prejudice and enters the [workplace] specifically to identify the leaders of the Labor organization, to propagandize against them and blacklist them and to disrupt and corrupt their union. He is under cover, disguised as a worker, hired to betray the workers' cause.\n\nLabor spies may be referred to as spies, operatives, agents, agents provocateurs, saboteurs, infiltrators, informants, spotters, plants, special police, or detectives. However, Dr. Richard C. Cabot, Professor of Social Ethics at Harvard, observed that labor spies are different from our normal view of detectives. While detectives investigate people suspected of crimes, the labor spy shadows and spies upon people who are not suspected of having committed any crime, nor are they suspected of planning any crime. During the mid-to-late-19th century, a period during which there was intense distaste for the detective profession, the Pinkerton and Thiel detective agencies referred to their field agents as \"operatives\" or \"testers\". The Pinkerton logo inspired the expression \"private eye\".\n\nOperatives employed for labor spying may be professional, recruited from the public, or recruited from members of a particular workforce for a specific operation such as strike breaking. They may be directly employed by the company, or they may report to the company through an agency.\n\nSome agencies that provide such operatives to corporations offer full protective and union busting services, such as security guards, training, providing weaponry (including, historically, machine guns), intelligence gathering, research, and strike-breaker recruitment services. Other agencies are more specialized.\n\nBoth the spy agencies and the companies that employ labor spies prefer to keep their activities secret. Some labor leaders have likewise sought to downplay the extent of industrial spying. This, in spite of the fact that \"industrial spies have played both sides against each other, and have been at the bottom of a great deal of the violence and corruption of industrial conflict.\"\n\nThe companies seek to avoid embarrassment and bad public relations. The spy agencies also concern themselves with \"possible danger attendant upon discovery, and second, because the operative is thereafter a marked man ... his usefulness to the Agency is ended.\" Therefore, actual labor spy reports, and even records of their existence, are a rare commodity.\n\nCorporations are not subject to freedom of information requirements or sunshine laws, and therefore corporate practices such as spying are rarely subject to public scrutiny. However, historic examples of labor spying that have come to light provide a fairly substantive overview.\n\nA letter from the Burns Detective Agency declared to the employer, \"[w]ithin the heart of your business is where we operate, down in the dark corners, in out-of-the-way places that cannot be seen from your office ...\"\n\nLabor spies may employ techniques of surreptitious monitoring, \"missionary\" work (see below), sabotage, provoking chaos or violence, frameups, intimidation, or insinuating themselves into positions of authority from which they may alter the basic goals of an organization. A National Labor Relations Board chairman testified about the results of these techniques:\n\nThe mystery and deadly certainty with which this scheme [labor spying] operated was so baffling to the men that they each suspected the others, were afraid to meet or to talk and the union was completely broken.\nA labor spy observed,\n\nThose labor unions were so hot, crying about spies, that everything was at fever pitch and they look at each other with blood in their eyes.\n\nAs one example of the impact of spying, a union local at the Underwood Elliot Fisher Company plant was so damaged by undercover operatives that membership dropped from more than twenty-five hundred, to fewer than seventy-five.\n\nIn 1906, officers of the Corporations Auxiliary Company announced that they had labor spies at the annual convention of the American Federation of Labor. For fifteen dollars, prospective clients could have a \"full and complete report of the entire proceedings.\" By 1919, spying on workers had become so common that steel company executives had accumulated six hundred spy reports. Some of them were accurate transcriptions of the secret meetings of union locals.\n\nIn order to elicit business, some agencies would send secret operatives into a prospective client's factory without permission. A report would be prepared and submitted to the startled manager, revealing conspiracies of sabotage and union activities.\n\nWorkers who were bribed to provide information to operatives often believed that the destination was an insurance agency, or interested stockholders. They never imagined that their reports on co-workers were destined for the corporation. Such workers were said to be \"hooked,\" and in spy agency parlance those who reeled them in were called \"hookers.\"\n\nMissionary work means deploying undercover operatives to create dissent on the picket lines and in union halls, for example, by utilizing whispering campaigns or unfounded rumors. Missionaries frequently directed their whispering campaigns toward strikers' families and communities. For example, female operatives would visit the wives of strikers in their homes, incorporating their cover story into their spiel. They would tell the wife sad stories about how their own spouse lost a job years ago because of a strike, and hasn't found work since, and \"that's why I must sell these products door to door.\"\n\nAnother target was merchants who catered to strikers, who could be turned against the union by asserted claims of financial risks.\n\nMissionary campaigns have been known to destroy not only strikes, but unions themselves.\n\nUndercover management agents have acted to create provocations within labor ranks. Examples include:\n\n... historians Philip Taft and Philip Ross have pointed out that \"IWW activity was virtually free of violence ... It is of some interest to note that a speaker who advocated violence at a meeting at the IWW hall in Everett [Washington, where the Everett massacre occurred] was later exposed as a private detective.\n\nAnd in the aftermath of the Colorado Labor Wars,\n\nWilliam B. Easterly, president of WFM District Union No. 1 [in the Cripple Creek District], testified that the only person who discussed violence at Altman WFM meetings during the strike turned out to be a detective.\nProvocations also took the form of fomenting racial strife. The Sherman Service Company, Inc., of Chicago sent instructions to an operative to \"stir up as much bad feeling as you possibly can between the Serbians and the Italians ... The Italians are going back to work. Call up every question you can in reference to racial hatred between these two nationalities.\"\n\nIn 1919-1920, a religious commission investigating labor spies was itself the target of labor spying. A labor spy followed the investigators, and sent a report to United States Steel Corporation alleging that the investigators were \"members of the I.W.W. and Reds.\" One document similarly characterized them as \"Pink Tea Socialists and Parlor Reds.\" One spy report included a cover letter from Ralph M. Easley of the National Civic Federation to the offices of United States Steel Corporation requesting that a list of clergymen \"be kicked out of their positions\" because of the investigation. The actual commission responded that none of the clergymen on the list were in any way connected with the investigation.\n\nIn the 1930s nearly one-third of the twelve-hundred labor spies working for the Pinkerton Agency held high-level positions in the targeted unions, including one national vice-presidency, fourteen local presidencies, eight local vice-presidencies, and numerous secretary positions. Sam Brady, a veteran Pinkerton operative, held a high enough position in the International Association of Machinists that he was able to damage the union by precipitating a premature strike. Pinkerton operatives drove out all but five officers in a United Auto Workers local in Lansing, Michigan. The remaining five were Pinkertons.\n\nAs early as 1855, the Pinkerton National Detective Agency provided \"spotters\" to expose dishonest and lazy railroad conductors. However, the program unraveled when, after a train accident in November 1872, papers found on the body of a Pinkerton operative revealed that the agency had been using deceitful practices.\n\nIn 1869, garment workers formed the Noble Order of the Knights of Labor as a secret labor organization, largely in response to spying by an employer. The resulting blacklist had been used to destroy their union.\n\nAt an 1888 convention of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers that was held in Richmond, Virginia, delegates organized a special committee to search out hiding places that might be used by labor spies. They discovered a newspaper reporter, and determined to hold meetings behind closed doors. Note-taking was forbidden. Their concerns were justified, but the effort failed; two Pinkerton operatives had infiltrated the convention as delegates from Reading, Pennsylvania. They composed elaborate reports on all the issues and discussions and recorded all the minutes of the meetings at the convention.\n\nBeginning in the latter decades of the 19th century, agencies that supplied security and intelligence services to business clients were essentially private police forces, and were accountable only to their clients. The private police agencies declined with the development of professional public police departments, but they continued to be employed by mine owners in \"frontier environments\" well into the 20th century.\n\nBy the dawn of the muckraking era, employers increasingly turned to espionage services. E. H. Murphy once told a midwestern industrialist,\n\nWe have the reputation of being several jumps ahead of the old way of settling capital and labor difficulties ... Our service aims to keep our clients informed through the medium of intelligence reports.\n\n\"In December [of 1920] ten important officials of the Labor unions of Akron, Ohio, were exposed as confessed and convicted spies of the Corporations Auxiliary Company, a concern whose business is the administration of industrial espionage.\"\n\nBy the 1930s, industrial espionage had become not just an accepted part of labor relations, it was the most important form of labor discipline services that was provided by the anti-union agencies. More than two hundred agencies offered undercover operatives to their clients.\n\nDuring the 1930s, thirty-two mining companies, twenty-eight automotive firms, and a similar number of food companies relied upon labor spies. A member of the National Labor Relations Board estimated that American industrialists spent eighty million dollars spying on their workers. General Motors alone spent nearly a million dollars for undercover operatives fighting the CIO during a two-year period. In addition to the Pinkertons, General Motors hired thirteen other spy agencies to monitor workers in its factories, and then used the Pinkertons to spy on operatives from these other agencies.\n\nBetween 1933 and 1935, the Pinkerton Agency employed twelve hundred undercover operatives and operated out of twenty-seven offices. The agency assigned agents to three hundred companies during the 1930s. In 1936 Robert Pinkerton announced a change of focus for the Pinkerton Agency. The days of strike-breaking agencies marshalling large numbers of strike-breakers to defeat strikes were over. The Pinkerton Agency was determined to \"place emphasis on its undercover work which, being secret, created less antagonism.\"\n\nThe National Labor Relations Act of 1935 outlawed spying on and intimidating union activists, provoking violence, and company unions. However, spying on workers and harassing them continued, according to testimony before congress in 1957. Other abuses by labor consulting firms included manipulating union elections through bribery and coercion; threatening to revoke workers' benefits if they organized; installing union officers sympathetic to management; and, offering rewards to employees who worked against unions.\n\nIn 1944, historian J. Bernard Hogg, surveying the history of labor spying, observed that Pinkerton agents were secured \"by advertising, by visiting United States recruiting offices for rejectees, and by frequenting waterfronts where men were to be found going to sea as a last resort of employment,\" and that \"[to] labor they were a 'gang of toughs and ragtails and desperate men, mostly recruited by Pinkerton and his officers from the worst elements of the community.'\"\n\nAt the prompting of Congressman Thomas E. Watson, the U.S. House of Representatives investigated detective agencies after the Homestead Strike. The Senate also investigated, and both houses issued reports in 1893. In addition to the Pinkertons, the Thiel Detective Agency, the U.S. Detective Agency, Mooney and Boland's Detective Agency, and the Illinois Detective Agency were involved in the hearings.\n\nThe Commission on Industrial Relations took testimony about espionage agencies in 1915, as did a privately funded investigation of the steel strike of 1919.\n\nIn 1936, a U.S. Senate Resolution called for an investigation of violations of the right to free speech and assembly and of interference with the right of labor to organize and bargain collectively. At the time, thirty percent of Pinkerton's business resulted from its industrial services. Between 1936 and 1941, the La Follette Civil Liberties Committee of the U.S. Congress held hearings and published reports on the phenomenon of labor spying, and other aspects of industrial relations. The committee established that in some cases, a company was able to lock out its workers three days prior to a strike, based upon information that Pinkerton services provided. An example report from an informant was introduced into evidence, demonstrating that such reports singled out individual workers. The Senate, with the House of Representatives concurring, passed a resolution that,\n\n... the so-called industrial spy system breeds fear, suspicion and animosity, tends to cause strikes and industrial warfare and is contrary to sound public policy.\n\nThe La Follette Committee investigated the five largest detective agencies: the Pinkerton National Detective Agency, William J. Burns International Detective Agency, the National Corporation Service, the Railway Audit and Inspection Company, and the Corporations Auxiliary Company. Most of the agencies subpoenaed, including the Pinkerton Agency, attempted to destroy their records before receiving the subpoenas, but enough evidence remained to \"piece together a picture of intrigue\". It was revealed that Pinkerton had operatives \"in practically every union in the country\". Of 1,228 operatives, there were five in the United Mine Workers, nine in the United Rubber Workers, seventeen in the United Textile Workers, and fifty-five in the United Auto Workers that had organized General Motors.\n\nThe rationale for spying on unions was detection of Communists.\n\nUpon examination, however, superintendent Joseph Littlejohn admitted never finding any Communists. Labor spying, as it turned out, was merely an excuse to wreck unions.\n\nThe La Follette Committee concluded that labor spying (espionage) was,\n\n... the most efficient method known to management to prevent unions from forming, to weaken them if they secure a foothold, and to wreck them when they try their strength.\nIn 1957 the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in Labor and Management (McClellan Committee) investigated unions for corruption. They also investigated corporations and union-busting agencies. One labor relations consultant called Labor Relations Associates was found to have committed violations of the National Labor Relations Act of 1935, including spying on workers.\n\nOne of the best known undercover agents was James McParland who, under the alias of James McKenna, infiltrated a secret society of Pennsylvania coalminers called the Molly Maguires. Debate continues over the extent of guilt on the part of the Mollies, and over the question of whether they were in some sense a labor organization, or merely a ring of assassins lashing out over unjust working conditions, inadequate pay, and the pressures of persecution against their Irish-Catholic status. In any event, McParland's testimony resulted in nineteen of the Molly Maguires going to the gallows.\n\nIn 1892, Pinkerton Agent Charles A. Siringo, working out of the Denver Pinkerton office, played a significant role in ending the Coeur d'Alene strike. Siringo had been hired by the Mine Owners' Protective Association (MOA) to work at the Gem mine in Gem, Idaho. Siringo used the alias C. Leon Allison to join the local miners' union, ingratiating himself by buying drinks and loaning money to his fellow miners. He was elected to the post of secretary, providing access to all of the union's books and records.\n\nSiringo promptly began to report all union business to his employers, allowing the mine owners to outmaneuver the miners on a number of occasions. Strikers planned to intercept a train of incoming strike breakers, so the mine owners dropped off the replacement workers in an unexpected location. The local union president, Oliver Hughes, ordered Siringo to remove a page from the union record book that recorded a conversation about possibly flooding the mines, the agent mailed that page to the Mine Owners' Association. Siringo also \"told his employer's clients what they wanted to hear,\" referring to union officials such as George Pettibone as \"dangerous anarchists.\"\n\nThe mine owners had locked out the strikers, and were hiring strike breakers. Meanwhile, Siringo was suspected as a spy when the MOA's newspaper, the \"Coeur d'Alene Barbarian\", began publishing union secrets. Although the union had advised the miners against violence, their anger at discovering the infiltration prompted them to blow up the Frisco mine in Gem, capturing the Gem mine, plus 150 non-union miners and company guards. Concurrent with the explosion, hundreds of miners converged on Siringo's boarding house. But Siringo had sawed a hole in the floor, and made his escape after crawling for half a block under a wooden boardwalk. He fled to the hills above Coeur d'Alene.\n\nThe miners union issued a statement deploring \"the unfortunate affair at Gem and Frisco.\" But the governor sent in six companies of the Idaho National Guard to \"suppress insurrection and violence.\" After the Guard secured the area, Siringo came out of the mountains to finger union leaders, and those who had participated in the attacks on the Gem and Frisco mines. He wrote that for days he was busy \"putting unruly cattle in the bull pen.\" Siringo then returned to Denver, and the following year the miners formed the Western Federation of Miners because of the disastrous events in Coeur d'Alene in 1892. The WFM immediately called for outlawing the hiring of labor spies, but their demand was ignored.\n\nDuring his career with Pinkerton, Charles Siringo discovered that clients were being cheated, supervisors were stealing agency funds, and operatives were inflating normal conversations with targeted radicals into conspiracies. When Siringo retired from the Pinkerton Agency, he was so disenchanted with his experiences that he wrote a book entitled \"Two Evil Isms\". On the cover of the book, Uncle Sam was pictured in the grip of a boa constrictor with the names \"Pinkertonism\" and \"Anarchism\" on its sides. Frank Morn, author of \"The Eye That Never Sleeps, A History of the Pinkerton National Detective Agency\", observed the following about Siringo's attempt at a tell-all book:\n\nTwo extremes were being joined: unbridled violence by radicals was matched by unbridled violence by business interests ... Such attacks were more damaging because they came from a man who had been [a Pinkerton] operative for over two decades.\n\nBut the Pinkerton Agency suppressed Siringo's book, and only a few copies survive.\n\nCharlie Siringo was not the only agent to have infiltrated the Coeur d'Alene miners' unions. In his book \"Big Trouble\", author J. Anthony Lukas mentions that Thiel Operative 53 had also infiltrated, and had been the union secretary at Wardner, Idaho. in 1906 this agent \"worked inside the miners union at Goldfield, Nevada. He was trusted by many union members in mining camps throughout the Northwest.\"\n\nAgents sometimes situate themselves into key positions from which to wreak damage on the targeted union:\n\nOne of the most efficient activities of the spy in the union during a strike is to wreck the strike relief benefit fund, upon which, of course, the success of the strike so largely depends. If the spy cannot himself have access to the fund, his next policy is to spread discontent and cause the strikers to demand higher benefits than the union is able to pay. He will frequently create the impression that the fund is dishonestly handled by the union officials.\nOne Pinkerton spy was assigned to sabotage the union's relief program during a 1903–04 strike which wreaked so significant an impact on the future of organized labor that it came to be called the Colorado Labor Wars.\n\nBill Haywood, Secretary Treasurer of the Western Federation of Miners, wrote in his autobiography:\n\nI had been having some difficulty with the relief committee of the Denver smelter men. At first we had been giving out relief at such a rate that I had to tell the chairman that he was providing the smelter men with more than they had had while at work. Then he cut down the rations until the wives of the smelter men began to complain that they were not getting enough to eat. Years later, when his letters were published in \"The Pinkerton Labor Spy\", I discovered that the chairman of the relief committe (sic) was a Pinkerton detective, who was carrying out the instructions of the agency ...\nThe individual responsible for revealing this sabotage was Morris Friedman, the former stenographer of Pinkerton agent James McParland, who had moved to Denver and managed the regional Pinkerton office. Friedman found the practices of the detective agency in general, and of McParland in particular, revolting. His views are captured in a passage from his 1907 book \"The Pinkerton Labor Spy\",\n\nIn his exposé of the Pinkerton Agency, Friedman provides background on the sabotage efforts of A. W. Gratias, known to Pinkerton supervisors as \"No. 42.\"\n\nNo. 42 was invited to join the union, and a short time after was an influential member ... Mr. McParland himself drew up the instructions for No. 42. To begin with, the operative was instructed to create trouble between the leaders of the union. This he accomplished, and soon the union was divided into a number of hostile camps ... The operative was next instructed to agitate the question of strike benefits among the men, so that they would demand financial aid from the Western Federation of Miners, and he was also told to intrigue against some of the leaders, so that the union would expel them. The chiefs being out of the way, Mr. McParland hoped that the rank and file would call the strike off.\n\nThe operative became so popular with the men for demanding relief that he was appointed chairman of the Relief Committee. McParland instructed him to provide relief in such large amounts that it would drain the treasury of the Federation.\n\nHe not only supplied the men with necessities, but even with luxuries and cash to spend. The operative's extreme liberality endeared him to the men, who rewarded him by electing him president of the union. We now see the unique spectacle of a Pinkerton spy, under the direct orders of Manager McParland, as president of a Western Federation of Miners' local union, and directing a bitter strike against the smelter trust. On his elevation to the presidency the operative did not relinquish his position on the relief committee, nor would the men have permitted him to do so, as they were perfectly satisfied with the way the operative squandered the money of the Federation ...\n\nNo. 42 then became a delegate and reported to the Pinkerton Agency everything that happened at the annual WFM convention. The operative also reported that WFM Secretary-Treasurer Haywood objected to the enormous weekly relief bills. McParland instructed the operative to \"cut the relief down to an extent that would almost starve the strikers, and while doing this, to throw the blame on Secretary Haywood.\" The operative, now holding the key positions of delegate to the convention, head of the relief committee, and president of the local, responded that he would cut the relief \"as much as possible, so as to cause dissatisfaction, and get the men against the union ...\"\n\nDuring the Western Federation of Miners' strike in 1903, there were several examples of labor spy activities. There is the special case of Harry Orchard. While this WFM member confessed to numerous of the crimes committed during the Colorado Labor Wars, and to additional crimes, including assassinating an ex-governor. He also admitted to being a Pinkerton agent, and to being in the pay of the Mine Owners' Association.\n\nHarry Orchard was convicted of murder in the assassination of Frank Steunenberg, an ex-governor of Idaho. But first, at McParland's prompting, Orchard tried (and failed) to take three leaders of the WFM with him.\n\nTestimony and allegiances in the 1907 assassination conspiracy cases against Harry Orchard's alleged WFM taskmasters remain very difficult to sort out. For example, another Pinkerton agent in the Cripple Creek district, \"No. 28\", reported that the defense was offering him money to testify. His written account, telling the Pinkerton Agency essentially what they wanted to hear—presumably as a condition of receiving money from that source—describes how he proceeded to tell the WFM defense team what \"they\" wanted to hear; specifically, that he would attest to \"the biggest collection of lies from beginning to end I ever saw on paper.\" However, Pinkerton Agent \"No. 28\" (whoever he may have been) was not called to testify for the defense. Whether his mission might have been to betray the WFM defense team on the witness stand, subtly or dramatically, can only be guessed. The prosecution did not call him either, so we have only his reports to the Agency to go by.\n\nMcParland's Pinkerton Agency beat out the Thiel Detective Agency for the assignment to investigate Steunenberg's assassination. McParland believed that the Theil Agency must have been hired by the defense for, \"Repeatedly in late 1906 and early 1907, he complained that Thiel Detectives were watching his every move ...\"\n\nThe Amalgamated Association of Street Car Employees (AASCE) sought a contract with Boston's public transit system in 1912. Company negotiator Cyrus S. Ching asked for a pledge by both sides to discontinue the use of labor spies. The union protested, claiming they had made no such use of spies. Ching summoned one of his assistants, a young man whom Ching had observed peering into records and communications that had nothing to do with his job. Ching said that he had intentionally provided misinformation to the assistant. Ching then announced that he would not fire the employee, and also that the transit company had used both spies and provocateurs against the union, but that the company would cease that practice. Encouraged by such openness, the union promptly reached an agreement with the company.\n\nAfter the Battle of Matewan, testimony in the case revealed that C. E. Lively had infiltrated the union for the company. Lively later testified before the United States Senate that he had been a Baldwin-Felts detective since 1912 or 1913. During that time he had worked undercover, with his duties taking him to Missouri, Illinois, Oklahoma, Kansas, and Colorado. During the Ludlow strike in Colorado, Lively became vice-president of the United Mine Workers' local at La Veta. He returned to Mingo County, West Virginia in early 1920. He worked undercover at Howard Collieries, a company that had a tipple destroyed by fire. The investigation was kept secret even from the coal company, and Lively was fired when he was suspected of complicity.\n\nLively then traveled to Matewan, and participated in UMWA efforts to organize the War Eagle, Glen Alum, and Mohawk mines of Stone Mountain Coal Company. He reported all activities to the detective agency, and even brought his family to Matewan as part of his cover. He rented the lower floor of the UMWA union hall for a restaurant. Lively befriended members and officers of the union, and reported on their activities via mail sent on the train.\n\nAfter the Battle of Matewan, Sid Hatfield and Ed Chambers were summoned from the union stronghold at Matewan to answer minor strike-related sabotage charges in McDowell County. They walked up the courthouse steps, accompanied by their wives. They were shot dead by Baldwin-Felts agents C. E. Lively, Bill Salter, and Buster Pence on August 1, 1921. According to Mrs. Chambers, Lively placed a gun behind Ed Chambers' ear and fired the last shot even though she was pleading with him not to shoot again. Neither of the two men had been armed, but one of the women reported that upon returning to the steps after having been led off by the guards, she discovered that both men had pistols in their hands. Pence was heard to remark, \"kill 'em with one gun, and hand 'em another one.\" Although scores of people witnessed the attack, due to its brazenness they were afraid to testify. The three agents were acquitted on grounds of self-defense. The murder of Sid Hatfield and Ed Chambers led to a general uprising of West Virginia coal miners.\n\nWhen Colorado Fuel and Iron (CF&I) went bankrupt in 1990. An immense quantity of archives from the corporation were released. Among the archives were reports of spies who were hired during a coal strike led by the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW), also known as the \"Wobblies\". The spies were assigned \"to glean intelligence on the Wobblies' strategies and tactics, to sow disinformation, to disrupt meetings and pickets, and to expose weaknesses in the IWW organization, finances, and leadership.\"\n\nHistorian J. Bernard Hogg, who wrote \"Public Reaction to Pinkertonism and the Labor Question,\" once observed:\n\nMuch of the hard feeling toward the Pinkertons was engendered by the fact that not infrequently detectives worked their way into high positions in the union and then revealed the intentions of the organization to the employer.\n\nAgents in the 1927 Columbine strike (we don't know if they were Pinkertons, or from a different agency) were able to approach and freely converse with top level strike leaders. Kristen Svanum was the \"head of the IWW\" in Colorado. An agent identified only as \"XX\" informed his employer,\n\nSvanum stated that he had put in over $600.00 of his private funds to finance the IWW here in Colorado, stating that he was supplied with this money from a higher power; that he was working for a peaceful revolution of conditions in the U.S?A. [sic] I tried to cause him to say what this power was but could not do so.\nSometimes the efforts of agents failed. When a strike vote was pending, labor spy \"XX\" reported,\n\nSmith and myself circulated through the crowd trying to get them to postpone the strike but without any success and when the vote was called it was unanimous for the strike, even the Northern Colorado delegates voting for it.\n\nAgents sought to influence the portrayal of the strikers in the media, hoping thereby to control subsequent events. Since 1900, the Colorado National Guard had a history of crushing strikes. CF&I agents knew that the threat of violence might bring the guard into the field, thus hindering the strike at taxpayer expense. Agent \"XX\" described himself as a strike leader when interviewed by the media, apparently seeking to bolster the credibility of his ominous message:\n\nThe \"A-P\" and \"Denver Post\" reporters think I am a dyed-in-the-wool wobbly and have tried to interview me. In speaking about the alleged carload of arms and ammunition I did not deny this \"hokum\" but intimitated [sic] that if there was any violence it was against the principles of Svanum and myself and the more select class of \"wobblies\" but that there was an awfully rough element of \"reds\" coming into the field and that we might not be able to hold them in hand. Do not know if they are gullible enough to absorb this kind of stuff but can tell better when this afternoon[']s papers come out. If they play up strong that there is likely to be violence it might hasten action on part of state authorities.\nA different view of the \"alleged carload of arms and ammunition\" is offered by historian Joanna Sampson:\n\nIt was curious that an organization like the IWW with its revolutionary philosophy and its reputation for violence conducted a major strike with so little violence. Miners afterward testified that members of the automobile caravans were searched by their own leaders to be sure they did not have liquor or firearms with them. In all the arrests of strikers for picketing, there is no case where a striker was accused of carrying firearms.\n\nIn fact the undercover agent got his wish for state intervention:\n\nOn November 21 [of 1927], state policemen killed six pickets and injured dozens more ... Despite the fact that the violence was the fault of the state police, Governor Adams used the so-called Columbine Massacre as an excuse to call out the National Guard to restore order throughout the state. With soldiers on guard at mine gates, mass picketing ceased and more and more miners returned to their jobs. The strike continued, but it lost considerable momentum.\n\nHogg explains that agents advocating, provoking, or using violence is a common scenario:\n\nA detective will join the ranks of the strikers and at once become an ardent champion of their cause. He is next found committing an aggravated assault\nupon some man or woman who has remained at work, thereby bringing down upon the heads of the officers and members of the assembly or union directly interested, the condemnation of all honest people, and aiding very materially to demoralize the organization and break their ranks. He is always on hand in the strikers'\nmeeting to introduce some extremely radical measure to burn the mill or wreck a train, and when the meeting has adjourned he is ever ready to furnish the Associated Press with a full account of the proposed action, and the country is told that a \"prominent and highly respected member\" of the strikers' organization\nhas just revealed a most daring plot to destroy life and property, but dare not become known in connection with the exposure for fear of his life!\n\nEven ardent union organizers may yield to the temptation to spy on other unions during strikes, based perhaps upon misplaced sectarian loyalties or ideological differences. Mike Livoda of the United Mine Workers (UMWA) was one of the celebrated organizers from the Ludlow strike of 1913-14. Livoda was so revered by the mineworkers that he is the only individual buried at the Ludlow Monument. When Professor Eric Margolis was researching the 1927 Wobbly strike, he encountered evidence that Mike Livoda \"actually hired out to spy on the Wobblies and provided the Governor of Colorado with advice on strike breaking tactics.\"\n\nThe Union Pacific Coal Company in Wyoming hired the services of Thomas J. Williams, Pinkerton Operative \"No. 15.\"\n\nWhenever UMWA President Mitchell sent an organizer to Wyoming, Operative Williams introduced himself as \"an old, good-standing member of the United Mine Workers,\" and offered to help the new fellow with his tasks. Operative Williams gladly arranged all the secret meetings with Wyoming miners. After approximately fifty secret meetings in a row were broken up by mine superintendents or foremen attending unannounced, causing prospective union members to scatter, the UMWA acknowledged defeat in Wyoming.\n\nIn 1903-04, the Pinkerton Agency had J. Frank Strong, operative \"No. 28\" in Fremont County, and Robert M. Smith, operative \"No. 38\" in Las Animas County. The two agents performed the same work — both had infiltrated the top ranks of the UMWA—yet they did not know each other. Because of this compartmentalization, the reports of these two operatives occasionally cite intelligence on each other.\n\nThe coal miners were unhappy about low wages paid in scrip. These were company-issued coupons redeemable only at the company store, where prices were exorbitant. The miners also wanted the eight-hour day, and the right to join a union. The UMWA declared a strike, and nearly all the coal miners in Colorado's Southern Field walked out.\n\nThe strike seemed destined to succeed. However, whenever the union sent an organizer to talk to miners, operative Strong would send that information to his Pinkerton handler. By chance, it seemed that groups of thugs would always obtain the same message. Morris Friedman, the former stenographer of the Pinkerton Agency in Colorado, reported:\n\nAs a result of Operative Smith's \"clever and intelligent\" work, a number of union organizers received severe beatings at the hands of unknown masked men, presumably in the employ of the company.\n\nFriedman offers examples of these incidents:\n\nAbout February 13, 1904, William Farley, of Alabama, a member of the [UMWA] National Executive Board ... and the personal representative of [UMWA] President Mitchell ... addressed coal miners' meetings ... [on their return trip] eight masked men held them up with revolvers, dragged them from their wagon, threw them to the ground, beat them, kicked them, and almost knocked them into insensibility.\n\nAnd,\n\nOn Saturday, April 30, 1904, W.M. Wardjon, a national organizer of the United Mine Workers, while on board a train en route to Pueblo, was assaulted by three men at Sargents, about thirty miles west of Salida. Mr. Wardjon was beaten into unconsciousness.\n\nUnder repeated attack, the 1903–04 UMWA strike effort failed, with both leadership and membership despondent over the turn of events.\n\nHowever, UMWA President Mitchell was determined to reverse the failure. He decided that one special position, that of \"national organizer\", should be created to oversee all organizing efforts for the union. After considering a range of candidates, Mitchell selected for this vital position, \"Pinkerton Operative \"No. 38,\" Robert M. Smith\".\n\nIn 1912, the United Mine Workers had discovered the extent to which CF&I relied upon spies, and union officials had learned their lesson well. The organization ended its efforts to form local unions. All membership cards were issued in secret, as members not of a local, but of the international union. Members did not know who had joined, and who had not. The company spy system was finally frustrated. Unaware that organizing was continuing, the two main coal operators in the Colorado Southern Coal Field, CF&I and the Victor-American Fuel company, believed they had won. Abusive practices which had been softened during the open organizing drives were revived. Revolt was in the air. Then the United Mine Workers announced a new organizing drive in letters sent to the newspapers. But this organizing drive would be different:\n\nTwenty-one pairs of organizers were put through a special course in the Denver [UMWA] office and then sent into the Southern Field. Their operation was simple, but effective. One member of each team was known as the active organizer; the other was the passive organizer. The so-called active organizer moved into the open and was known to everyone ... as an organizer. His passive team-mate posed as a miner looking for work. He cussed the unions and their leadership, and obtained a job in the heavily guarded mines. He made friends with officers of the company and, where possible, hired out as a coal company spotter ... Once the passive organizer was installed in the mine, his active team mate sought new members in that mine. If a miner joined, the active organizer kept the man's membership secret and sent his card directly to the Denver office ... If a working miner refused to join, his name was sent to the passive organizer who immediately reported to the company that John Cotino had joined the union. The result was always the same. The company sent John Cotino packing ... In this manner a constant stream of anti-union and non-union men, the confirmed strike breakers and scabs, were kept streaming [out]. The companies unwittingly sent the faithful out, while the active organizer sent carefully coached men of union affiliation to apply for the jobs that had to be filled.\n\nIn one month, this system caused the coal operators to fire more than 3,000 non-union men. Their places were taken by 3,000 union men. In September 1913 a strike was called, and twelve thousand miners laid down their tools. Only with significant brutality would this new strike be defeated.\n\nDuring the first week of February 2011, the Internet hacker cooperative Anonymous released e-mails which appear to show that the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, through their law firm, Hunton & Williams, contracted with three technology firms, including HBGary, Palantir Technologies, and Berico Technologies, to spy on and discredit unions and political opponents. Palantir received startup funds from the CIA in 2005. Release of the emails appears to have caused the parties to abort the attacks.\n\nIn the book \"The Case Against Wal-Mart\", author Al Norman cites many of the usual criticisms of the big box retail chain. He has written,\n\nWal-Mart is so terrified of union organizing, the company allegedly monitors some of its stores' phone calls and emails. Jon Lehman, a former Wal-Mart store manager, told Bloomberg news in February 2004 that Wal-Mart has a 60×60-foot room in Bentonville in which two dozen people with headsets conduct surveillance on calls and emails from stores, to see whether anyone is talking about union organizing.\n\nWal-Mart has responded that they monitor stores only if there is a risk of a bomb threat. But Norman believes,\n\n... there is no more explosive issue at Wal-Mart than the feared depth-charge of union sympathizers among its own workforce.\n\nWal-Mart's surveillance department has generated significant media attention. In a story headlined, \"Wal-Mart gets gag order against ex-security worker,\" the Associated Press reported on April 10, 2007 that Wal-Mart succeeded in obtaining a gag order to prevent Bruce Gabbard, a former \"security operative\" for the company, from discussing the company with reporters. The article notes that there has been:\n\n... a string of revelations about the retailer's large surveillance operations and its business plans ... The suit and restraining order were filed two days after Wal-Mart apologized to activist shareholders for Gabbard's revelation that they were considered potential threats and ahead of a story in Monday's editions of the \"Wall Street Journal\" on Gabbard's claim that Wal-Mart had a super-secret \"Project Red\" aimed at bolstering its stagnant share price.\nGabbard has alleged that \"Wal-Mart had widespread surveillance operations against targets including shareholders, critics, suppliers, the board of directors and employees,\" and that \"most of his spying activities were sanctioned by superiors.\" It has also been alleged that the corporation assigned a \"long-haired employee\" wearing a microphone to infiltrate a group that is critical of Wal-Mart. Wal-Mart used a surveillance van to monitor the organization from \"the perimeter.\" Wal-Mart has characterized its security operations as normal.\n\nLabor spy agencies included the Baldwin–Felts Detective Agency, Pinkerton National Detective Agency, William J. Burns International Detective Agency, Corporations Auxiliary Company, Sherman Service Company, Mooney and Boland, Thiel Detective Service Company, Berghoff and Waddell, and numerous others. Each of the named companies had branch offices in scores of American cities, frequently under disguised names.\n\nOne might question why labor spy agencies exist. A labor spy boss from Cleveland, who asserted c. 1920 that \"I own every union in this town\" (which is to say that he had control of the union executives), explains simply that many labor spies are ex-criminal detectives, and \"[t]here's more money in industry than ever there was in crime.\"\n\nThese are agencies which have been known to supply operatives to corporations for the purpose of establishing or maintaining control over unionization efforts, beyond simply providing security services — former agencies, current agencies, and agencies that appear to have quit the business of union-busting:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40052413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40052413", "title": "List of Belizean people", "text": "List of Belizean people\n\nThis is a list of notable and well-known Belizean people, ordered alphabetically.\n\n"}
{"id": "38652783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38652783", "title": "List of Big Brother Canada houseguests (season 1)", "text": "List of Big Brother Canada houseguests (season 1)\n\nThe first Canadian edition of \"Big Brother\" featured a total of fifteen HouseGuests competing to win the $100,000 grand prize.\n\nAnuj \"AJ\" Burman (born 1980) is a 32-year-old Director of Business Development from Scarborough, Ontario. He described himself as being positive, active, and funny. While in the house, AJ had a close friendship with Andrew. He became known in the house for speaking in the third person, much to the annoyance of his fellow HouseGuests. He was used as a pawn multiple times in the house, leading to AJ and his fellow HouseGuests to refer to him as a \"pawn star.\" He was nominated a total of three times in the house, ultimately becoming the seventh HouseGuest to be evicted from the house on Day 36. AJ became the first member of the Jury of Seven, coming in ninth place. On Day 57, it was revealed that AJ had come in third place in the vote for a juror to return to the house. During the finale, AJ voted for Gary to win the series.\n\nAlec Beall (born 1985) is a 27-year-old Social Psychological Research from Vancouver, British Columbia. He describes himself as being complicated, balanced, and confident. He is a fan of \"Big Brother 2\" HouseGuest Will Kirby in the US, and cites his gameplay as Alec's inspiration for studying psychology. Alec formed a secret alliance with Peter on the first day of the game which they nicknamed \"The Sheyld\" and the pair then became part of the \"Quattro\" alliance with Emmett and Tom. In addition, Alec developed a romantic relationship with Topaz though they ended up falling out midway through the season. Alec won the Power of Veto in Week 4 and the Head of Household competition in Week 5, successfully targeting and evicting Suzette. Alec was evicted on Day 50, when Head of Household Jillian went back on her promise to keep Alec safe. Alec served as the second member of the jury and in the season finale voted for Gary to win.\n\nAndrew Monaghan (born 1974) is a 38-year-old Insurance Sales Trainer from Corner Brook, Newfoundland. He describes himself as being funny, outgoing, and honest. He used to live in Germany, and was a fan of the series in that country as well. He claims he does not like people who claim to be smart, yet actually aren't. Andrew became the Head of Household during the Week 4 Fast-Forward eviction and successfully got his target Liza evicted. He was the original target of Head of Household Topaz during the instant eviction, but survived over his best friend AJ and then became Head of Household again, successfully targeting and evicting Gary. Andrew was part of the \"East Coast Alliance\" with Emmett, Jillian and Talla and made it to the final five, before his alliance turned on him, resulting in his eviction on Day 64. Andrew served as the fifth member of the jury and in the season finale voted for Jillian to win.\n\nAneal Ramkissoon (born 1991) is a 21-year-old Trinidadian Canadian Student from Richmond Hill, Ontario. He describes himself as being outgoing, stubborn, and fun. He hopes to use his experience on the show to develop his undergraduate thesis, and plans on playing a more strategic game. Aneal was known as a troublemaker during his stay in the house and made several attempts to create paranoia amongst the other houseguests. He was nominated and targeted by Head of Household Jillian in Week 2, but managed to save himself at the expense of Danielle. Aneal's reprieve proved to be brief however, when he was nominated the following week by Tom, when Canada voted to take Suzette off the block. Aneal was then evicted by a vote of 8–2 over AJ on Day 22.\n\nDanielle Alexander (born 1992) is a 20-year-old Aspiring Actress from Calgary, Alberta. She describes herself as being fun, opinionated, and outgoing. She states that she grew up getting \"everything [she] wanted,\" but that she would hide this from her fellow HouseGuests. Danielle formed close friendships with Gary, Suzette and Talla, but was vocal in her dislike of Jillian. In Week 2, Danielle attempted to build up trust between herself and the other houseguests by volunteering to be a pawn up against Aneal, but the move backfired when the house switched their target and on Day 15, she became the second to be voted out in a vote of 8–3.\n\nEmmett Blois (born 1988) is a 26-year-old Dairy farmer from Gore, Nova Scotia. He describes himself as being outgoing, social, and an adventure seeker. He states that his brother is the main reason he applied for the series, and he was excited to inform him he had made it in. Emmett was nominated on the first night by Head of Household Suzette, but eventually survived the eviction over Kat in a vote of 11–1. Emmett joined the \"Quattro\" alliance along with Tom, Alec and Peter, but the three turned on Tom early on, and later Emmett turned on Alec and Peter. Emmett was briefly named Head of Household in Week 4, but video evidence proved that along with three other houseguests, he had cheated in the competition and his title was stripped from him. Emmett formed a romantic relationship with Jillian and the pair became part of the dominant \"East Coast Alliance\" along with Andrew and Talla. Emmett won the most competitions of anyone during the season, with three Power of Veto wins and two Head of Household wins (in Weeks 7 and 9). In the final four, Emmett won the final Power of Veto, gaining sole power to choose which nominee to evict. He chose to evict Talla over Gary, but the move came back to haunt him on finale night when Gary became the final Head of Household, and he voted to evict Emmett and take Jillian to the final two. Emmett became the final member of the jury and voted for his partner Jillian to win on finale night. After \"Big Brother Canada\", Emmett, along with Jillian, appeared on CTV reality series \"The Amazing Race Canada 4\".\n\nGary Levy (born 23 May 1991) is a 21-year-old African-Canadian, from Toronto, Ontario. He is a fashion assistant. He describes himself as being funky, outgoing, and fabulous. He states that he intends to be a social player in the game as a way to obtain information from his fellow HouseGuests. Early in the game, Gary was viewed as a threat, resulting in him being nominated by Jillian in Week 2, but he won the veto and saved himself. He was again nominated in Week 3 by Tom, but Tom used the veto on Gary in a bid to get his real target Suzette evicted. Gary became the Head of Household in Week 4 and successfully got his enemy Tom evicted. Gary formed close relationships in the house with Jillian, Emmett, Danielle, Suzette, Topaz, Alec, Peter, and Andrew. Gary got into a very heated argument with fellow houseguest Talla over her not helping clean the dishes in the kitchen, he also did not get along with Tom, Liza, or Aneal. Talla and Gary however have since made up. Gary was nominated alongside his best friend Topaz in Week 6, and despite initially believing her to be the target, he was evicted on Day 43 by a vote of 5–0. Two weeks later, Gary was announced as the winner of a nationwide vote to send one member of the jury back into the house and he returned to the house on Day 57. In week 8, Gary was nominated by Emmett, but won the Power of Veto, guaranteeing the break-up of the \"East Coast alliance\". Gary was nominated again in Week 9 alongside Talla, but was spared by Emmett who had the sole vote to evict that week. Gary made it to finale night and became the final Head of Household, voting to evict Emmett and to take Jillian to the final two. In the finale, Gary gained votes from AJ, Alec and Peter, but lost the game due to Topaz accidentally voting for Jillian, meaning that Gary ended the season as the runner-up. Gary was one of the most popular houseguests during the season, building a large fanbase outside of the house.\n\nJillian MacLaughlin (born 1985) is a 27-year-old teacher from New Glasgow, Nova Scotia and the first winner of Big Brother Canada. She describes herself as being hyper, easygoing, and driven. She states that she wanted to be a part of the series to \"shake up her life\" after a recent breakup. Jillian formed a romantic relationship with Emmett early in the game, and the pair became a dominant force in the house as part of the \"East Coast Alliance\" along with Andrew and Talla. Jillian won the most Head of Household competitions during the season, winning in Week 2, Week 7, Week 8 and Week 10. On Day 43, Jillian made a controversial deal with Topaz to keep both Topaz and Alec safe, before going back on the deal and putting both on the block. Jillian made it to the final three without ever being nominated, but lost the final Head of Household competition to Gary. Gary opted to take Jillian to the final two, evicting Emmett instead. Jillian was friends with Emmett, Gary, Aneal, Tom, and Talla while in the house. Danielle and Jillian however never got along being that Danielle was jealous of Jillian's relationship with Emmett. In the final vote of the season, Jillian gained votes from Emmett, Talla, Andrew and Topaz, becoming the winner of Big Brother Canada. Her victory was the source of controversy, as Topaz had not intended to vote for her to win, accidentally voting for her instead of Gary. After \"Big Brother Canada\", Jillian, along with Emmett, appeared on CTV reality series \"The Amazing Race Canada 4\".\n\nKat Yee (born 1985) is a 27-year-old Asian Canadian, Bartender from Toronto, Ontario. She describes herself as being nutty, silly, and honest. She states that her \"gut\" told her to join the series, and that she plans on laying low early on in the game. In Week 1, Kat attempted to form an all-female alliance, but the plan failed and she was nominated as a replacement nominee by Suzette for attempting to play too aggressively. Kat became the first houseguest to be evicted from the series on Day 8, with only Liza voting to keep her over Emmett in an 11–1 vote.\n\nLiza Stinton (born 1983) is a 29-year-old tanning salon owner from Toronto, Ontario. She describes herself as being fabulous, confident, and sexy. She feels that she is almost \"perfect,\" and cannot stand when people use grammatical errors. Despite initially claiming to dislike him, Liza formed a romantic relationship with Tom and also developed a secret alliance with Peter. In Week 4, Liza was nominated alongside Tom but was spared in an 8–1 vote. Moments afterwards the houseguests discovered that it was a double eviction night, and Liza was again nominated by new Head of Household Andrew, this time against Suzette. Liza was then evicted when she failed to win the power of veto, sent home in the seasons first unanimous vote on Day 29.\n\nPeter Brown (born 1986) is a 26-year-old Web Content Curator from Millville, New Brunswick. He describes himself as being mean, funny, and intelligent. Privately, he admits to being a misanthrope, but he intended to conceal that fact to the other HouseGuests. Peter runs a successful YouTube channel under the name of \"Parker Jakobowhitz\". Peter made an instant friend in Alec, and the pair formed an alliance on Day 1 which they nicknamed \"The Sheyld\". The pair were a part of the \"Quattro\" alliance alongside Emmett and Tom, and Peter also had a secret alliance with Liza, though he was forced to abandon her when the other houseguests turned on her. Peter was nominated for the first time in Week 7 by Jillian, but saved himself with the Power of Veto resulting in the eviction of his friend Alec. Peter was evicted on Day 57 when he was unable to win the Power of Veto. Peter became the fourth member of the jury and on finale night, voted for Gary to win Big Brother\n\nSuzette Amaya (born 1976) is a 36-year-old Native Canadian Motivational Speaker from Vancouver, British Columbia. She describes herself as being outgoing, thoughtful, and funny. She states that she will be a floater throughout the game, and will simply ride coattails. She has three children, making her the only parent this season. Suzette became the first Head of Household on Day 1 when she answered the red telephone in the house. She became something of an outsider early in the game, forming close friendships with Gary, Danielle, Alec, and Topaz but making powerful enemies in Tom and Emmett when she nominated them on the first night, though her Head of Household week ultimately ended with the eviction of Kat. Suzette also got into a very heated argument with Aneal after Danielle's eviction. In Week 3, Suzette was nominated by Head of Household Tom and looked set to be evicted, but was spared when Canada voted for her to receive a special Power of Veto. Suzette was again nominated in Week 4 as a pawn against Liza, but was then evicted on Day 36 when she was nominated alongside AJ by Head of Household Alec.\n\nTalla Rejaei (born 1987) is a 26-year-old Iranian Support from Edmonton, Alberta. She describes herself as being boisterous, genuine, and hilarious. She states that her mother helped with her audition video, and plans on laying low while in the house. Talla flew under the radar early in the game but unexpectedly found herself as a key player in Week 6 when alliances began to shift and her vote became desired, and she opted to join the \"East Coast Alliance\" alongside Emmett, Jillian and Andrew. Talla won no competitions during her time in the house and after escaping nomination for seven weeks, was put on the block four consecutive times before her eviction. Talla made it to the final four but was evicted on Day 67 over Gary by Emmett, who held the sole eviction vote for the week. Talla became the sixth member of the jury and on finale night, voted for Jillian to win Big Brother.\n\nThomas Plant (born 4 January 1988) is a 25-year-old Firefighter from Edmonton, Alberta. He describes himself as being adaptable, competitive, and charming. He states that he will not reveal that he is a firefighter, as he fears it will make him be seen as a physical threat. On the first night in the house, Suzette nominated Tom and Emmett for eviction based on her first impressions. Despite this, Tom went on to win the first Power of Veto of the season and took himself off the block. Emmett survived the eviction ceremony too and the pair became close, joining the \"Quattro\" alliance with Alec and Peter and in addition, Tom formed a romantic relationship with Liza. Tom was friends with Emmett, Jillian, Danielle, Talla, and Peter. Tom did not get along with Aneal, Gary, Suzette, and Topaz. Tom became the third Head of Household and nominated Gary and Suzette, though later used the veto on Gary in a bid to guarantee Suzette's eviction. The following week, Gary became Head of Household and Tom was nominated alongside Liza, and though his alliance initially planned on keeping him, they eventually decided to turn on Tom due to his emotional gameplay and refusal to listen to their warnings about the effect Liza was having on his game. Tom was then evicted on Day 29 by a vote of 8–1, with Liza being evicted minutes later.\n\nEmerald \"Topaz\" Brady (born 1985) is a 27-year-old Guyanese Canadian, Dental Hygienist from Scarborough, Ontario. She describes herself as being fun, crazy, wild, smart, and interesting. She states she has been a fan of the series since the first US season, and cannot stand messy people. Early in the game, Topaz formed a romantic relationship with Alec and in addition made close friends in Talla and in particular Gary, with the pair forming an alliance which they nicknamed \"Secret Wedding\". Topaz became the Head of Household in Week 6, but her week was cut short with news of the instant eviction and she nominated AJ and Andrew, with Andrew her target. Unbeknown to Topaz her conversation with Arisa was broadcast to the rest of the house and AJ was evicted. The move weakened Topaz's position in the house and she was nominated three times in a row, surviving over her allies Gary and Alec, but then being evicted on a double eviction night against Talla, when Peter chose not to use the Power of Veto on her. Topaz was evicted on Day 50, and became the fourth member of the jury. On finale night, Topaz attracted controversy when she accidentally cast a vote for Jillian to win the game, despite vocally endorsing Gary throughout the broadcast. Topaz then repeatedly asked if she could change her vote to no avail, resulting in Jillian winning in a 4–3 vote.\n"}
{"id": "1984553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1984553", "title": "List of German Texans", "text": "List of German Texans\n\nGerman Texans have historically played a role in history of the U.S. state of Texas.\n\nTexans of German birth or descent have, since the mid-19th century, made up one of the largest ethnic groups in the state. By 1850, they numbered five percent of the total population—a conservative count. The 1990 census listed more than 17 percent of the population, nearly three million individuals, claiming German heritage.\n\n"}
{"id": "44227948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44227948", "title": "List of The Apprentice candidates (UK series 10)", "text": "List of The Apprentice candidates (UK series 10)\n\nAge: 37; Occupation: Marketing Officer & Fashion Retailer. Even though Ahmed won as project manager in week two, she was fired the following week. Lord Sugar fired her because he felt it was a big jump up from running a small business to a big one and he also felt that she hadn't shown much to him in the past three weeks.\n\nAge: 22; Occupation: Technology Entrepreneur. Akhtar lost 5 tasks, won 5 tasks and was brought into the boardroom in week two because the project manager felt that he hid away in the task. He strongly disagreed and stated that if a task to do with online technology came along that he would become project manager. He came in 5th place in the competition, and was fired because he failed to include crucial figures in his business plan.\n\nAge: 34; Occupation: Lawyer. Alviar-Baquero was project manager in the first task but failed, however he remained in the process. Alviar-Baquero is the first Colombian on the show, and a joint-second lawyer to take part in any season of the show, after Karen Bremner from Series 2. Also, he is the first candidate who was a losing project manager on the first task, and went further than the winning project manager in the competition.\n\nAge: 26; Operations Manager. Bird was on the winning team in the first four weeks and came up with the girl's new team name: Tenacity. She called herself 'the girl that always nearly wins'. However this was proven right when she was fired in Week 5\n\nAge: 23; Business Management Graduate. Bitton has also been on the winning team all three times and she says in her audition that she doesn't believe in game plans. In week four she was appointed as the project manager but lost and was the third person that week to be fired, as it was felt she didn't know what hard work was.\n\nAge: 30; Owner- Swimming Academy. Booth had been criticised for being too quiet and not giving any contributions to the tasks. In week three she was in the losing team and only managed to sell one item. In the boardroom almost the entire team put her under pressure until she admitted to Lord Sugar that she was out of her depth- he quickly fired her.\n\nAge: 28; Fitness Entrepreneur. Bulmer-Cooke took on the role of project manager in week three and led her team to victory by fourteen pounds. She was fired in week 10 for her bizarre idea to put saffron in a trifle, despite wanting to open a healthy-eating restaurant.\n\nAge: 35; Company Director. Cartwright was the leader of the boys' sub-team and made a fundamental error in his team-leading to their failure. He was fired in week one for his bad decisions.\n\nAge: 32; Former PA & Hypnotherapist. Dales was the project manager of the girls' team in week one and won, however she was reported as being a terrible team leader. In week three Lord Sugar warned Dales that if her team lost she would be fired- luckily for her, her team won. She was one of three people to be fired in Week 4.\n\nAge: 25; Marketing Mangager. Goodwin was in the boardroom in week one but let off. However, in week two he was strongly suggested that he should take on the role of project manager; but he declined. This led him to be fired before the final boardroom.\n\nAge: 26; Multiple Business Owner. Hill compares himself as a younger version of Lord Sugar. In week three he was brought back into the boardroom for messing up the sales strategy but was let off. However he was told to watch his mouth in the boardroom. He was fired in week 8.\n\nIn August 2015, Hill was a housemate on the sixteenth series of \"Celebrity Big Brother\". On 24 September, he reached the final on Day 29 and was voted as the winner of the series.\n\nAge: 35; Accountant. Hogan was the project manager in week three and lost. However she remained in the process. Hogan was the second Irish person in this series. She was fired in the interview week for criticism of the research she did into her Konjac based ready-meals idea.\n\nAge: 27; Director- Pub Quiz Company. Lassman was brought into the boardroom four times during the process, but survived all of them. He placed third in the programme.\n\nAge: 24; Clinical Development Strategist. McCulloch became the project manager in week two but was fired by Lord Sugar for his bad managerial skills.\n\nAge: 25; Owner- Personal Branding Company. Miller was the joint-most successful candidate, winning seven out of the ten tasks. Miller made it to final and had plans for tights which matched women's skin tones, but lost to Mark Wright. Miller has announced that she will still continue with the tights brand.\n\nAge: 29; Solicitor. Riley was in the winning team four times. She was fired in week 7 due to lack of contribution.\n\nAge: 27; Senior Manager- Banking. Sood-Smith was fired in week 10 for having a bad track record.\n\nAge: 24; Assistant Brand Manager. Uddin is the second person from Ireland. She was fired in week 6 due to bad leadership.\n\nAge: 29; Social worker. In week one Ugoalah was blamed by the project manager for the failure of the task- yet he was not brought into the boardroom and wasn't fired. Ugoalah is the only person in this series from Canada. He was one of three people to be fired in week 4.\n\n\"Main article:\" \"Mark Wright\"Age: 24; Sales Manager- Digital Marketing. Wright was the only Australian in this series. He won the final on 21 December 2014 beating Bianca Miller. Despite winning the 2014 series, he only won three times and even lost as project manager in Week 7.\n"}
{"id": "406569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=406569", "title": "List of philatelists", "text": "List of philatelists\n\nThis is a list of philatelists, persons notable for their contributions to philately.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53015944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53015944", "title": "Maria Rivarola", "text": "Maria Rivarola\n\nMaria del Carmen Rodriguez de Rivarola, better known by her artistic name Maria Rivarola (born in Buenos Aires, ca. 1957) is an outstanding professional dancer, social dancer, and choreographer of the Argentine Tango. She is known for performing a specific style of Argentine Tango known as Milonguero Tango. She is also known worldwide for being a cast member of the show \"Tango Argentino\", released in 1983, which resulted in her nomination, along with the rest of the dancers, for the Tony Award in 1986 for Best Choreography. Since her youth, Carlos Rivarola has been her dance partner. Together, they present themselves artistically as Maria and Carlos Rivarola. Maria was one of the founders of the Association of Teachers, Dancers, and Choreographers of the Argentine Tango (ATDCAT) in 2001.\n\nMaria del Carmen Rodriguez was born in Buenos Aires around the year 1957. She has studied dance since her youth. During her teenage years, she took part in dances that were shown on television and in the theater, dancing mostly the flamenco.\n\nAfter acting in many different Latin American countries, Maria returned to Argentina in the middle of the decade in 1970. It was then she came to know Carlos Rivarola, with whom she would be a dance and life partner, adapting from that point on the artistic name Maria Rivarola. Together, in 1975, they took part in a show, organized by Nelida and Nelson, which toured Peru, Colombia and Venezuela. In addition, they acted as one of the regular partners for the television program \"La Botica del Tango\" directed by Eduardo Bergara Leumann.\n\nIn 1983, they joined a cast that premiered in the hit show \"Tango Argentino\", a theatrical dance production in which half of the thirty-five songs were choreographed, produced by Claudio Segovia and Hector Orezzoli, in Paris. The show, with its large movement quality, influenced a worldwide rebirth of the Tango, which allowed them to tour the world for a decade. Maria and Carlos were then nominated, along with the other dancers, for the Tony Award in 1986 for Best Choreography.\n\nStarting in 1984, the couple began to travel to Japan every year, as they established a special artist connection there. In 1996, Carlos and Maria directed a show that they prepared for Japan entitled \"Los Grandes del Tango Argentino\". The show included the participation of Juan Carlos Copes, Maria Nieves, Nelida and Nelson, Mayoral and Elsa Maria, Carlos and Ines Borquez and the Color Tango Orchestra. Maria and Carlos also founded and maintained many tango clubs and academies in Japan located in Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya and Osaka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15361302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15361302", "title": "Mark White (musician)", "text": "Mark White (musician)\n\nMark Andrew White (born 1 April 1961) is an English singer, songwriter, composer, musician and record producer. \n\nBorn in Sheffield, England, White first entered the music industry in the late 1970s as lead singer and keyboardist of the electronic band Vice Versa. After releasing one album with the band in 1980, Vice Versa member Martin Fry emerged as lead singer and the band opted to transform into a new band called ABC. White resigned himself to composing ABC's music while also playing guitar and keyboards before retiring from music after the release of their sixth studio album, \"Abracadabra\", in 1991. As ABC's keyboardist he used a variety of instruments, including the E-mu Emulator, the Yamaha DX7 and the Fairlight CMI.\n\nIn 2014 he came out of retirement to reform Vice Versa with Stephen Singleton.\n\nMark Andrew White was born on 1 April 1961 in Sheffield, England.\n\nIn the late 1970s, White was a member of ABC's predecessor band, the three-piece electronic band Vice Versa. Other members of the trio were David Sydenham and future ABC saxophonist Stephen Singleton. After being interviewed by future ABC lead singer Martin Fry for his fanzine, \"Modern Drugs\", the band members invited Fry to join the band as a keyboardist, and Vice Versa later evolved into ABC. \n\nWith Fry in place as lead singer and songwriter, Vice Versa changed its name to ABC and changed its sound to a contemporary pop style that at that time led them to be categorised with bands like Duran Duran, Spandau Ballet and the Human League. Between 1982 and 1991, ABC recorded six studio albums (\"The Lexicon of Love\", \"Beauty Stab\", \"How to Be a ... Zillionaire!\", \"Alphabet City\", \"Up\" and \"Abracadabra\") and released a greatest hits compilation album, \"Absolutely\". Together with Fry, White co-wrote and produced a couple of songs on Paul Rutherford's 1989 solo album \"Oh World\", including the single \"Get Real\". During this time, the band went through numerous personnel changes, with White and Fry being its only permanent members.\n\nABC disbanded in 1992, with White retiring from music to pursue an interest in Reiki therapy. ABC reformed in 1997 without White, and Fry continued to tour under the band's name despite being its only official member. White declined to participate in VH1's \"Bands Reunited\" in 2004, when attempts were made to reform ABC for a one-off performance.\n\nIn 2014, White, together with Singleton, compiled the Vice Versa box set, \"Electrogenesis 1978–1980\" which was released on VOD Records. This led to White coming out of retirement to reform the band. In December 2015 the duo released a Christmas single called \"Little Drum Machine Boy\", which was available to download for free on SoundCloud. They are currently writing and recording new material.\n\n"}
{"id": "18500708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18500708", "title": "Martin Roesch", "text": "Martin Roesch\n\nMartin Roesch founded Sourcefire in 2001 and served as its Chief Technology Officer until the company was acquired by Cisco Systems on October 7, 2013. Roesch now serves as vice president and chief architect of Cisco’s Security Business Group. A respected authority on intrusion prevention and detection technology and forensics, he is responsible for the technical direction and product development efforts. Martin, has industry experience in network security and embedded systems engineering, is also the author and lead developer of the Snort Intrusion Prevention and Detection System that forms the foundation for the Sourcefire 3D System.\n\nMartin has developed various network security tools and technologies, including intrusion prevention and detection systems, honeypots, network scanners, and policy enforcement systems for organizations such as GTE Internetworking, Stanford Telecommunications, Inc., and the United States Department of Defense. Martin has been interviewed as an industry expert in multiple technology publications, as well as print and online news services such as MSNBC, Wall Street Journal, CNET, ZDNet, and Scientific American. He has also been interviewed for several books, such as Network Intrusion Detection: An Analysts Handbook, Intrusion Signatures and Analysis, Maximum Security, Hacking Exposed, and others.\n\nIn 2006, Martin was named as one of InformationWeek's 18 \"Innovators and Influencers\" and one of the Tech Council of Maryland's \"Most Influential CTOs in Maryland.\" Martin has also been the recipient of the 2004 InfoWorld IT Heroes Innovator Award as well as winning the 2004 \"40 Under 40\" award from the Baltimore Business Journal.\n\nMartin holds a B.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Clarkson University. He is also the author of Daemonlogger.\n"}
{"id": "20345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20345", "title": "Martin of Tours", "text": "Martin of Tours\n\nSaint Martin of Tours (; 316 or 336 – 8 November 397) was the third bishop of Tours. He has become one of the most familiar and recognizable Christian saints in Western tradition.\n\nA native of Pannonia, he converted to Christianity at a young age. He served in the Roman cavalry in Gaul, but left military service at some point prior to 361, when he embraced Trinitarianism and became a disciple of Hilary of Poitiers, establishing the monastery at Ligugé. He was consecrated as Bishop of Caesarodunum (Tours) in 371. As bishop, he was active in the suppression of the remnants of Gallo-Roman religion, but he opposed the violent persecution of the Priscillianist sect of ascetics.\n\nHis life was recorded by a contemporary hagiographer, Sulpicius Severus. \nSome of the accounts of his travels may have been interpolated into his \"vita\" to validate early sites of his cult. He is best known for the account of his using his military sword to cut his cloak in two, to give half to a beggar clad only in rags in the depth of winter. \n\nHis shrine in Tours became a famous stopping-point for pilgrims on the road to Santiago de Compostela in Spain. \nHis cult was revived in French nationalism during the Franco-Prussian War of 1870/1, and as a consequence he was seen as a patron saint of France during the French Third Republic.\n\nMartin was born in AD 316 or 336 in Savaria in the Diocese of Pannonia (now Szombathely, Hungary). His father was a senior officer (tribune) in the Imperial Horse Guard, a unit of the Roman army, later stationed at Ticinum (now Pavia), in northern Italy, where Martin grew up.\n\nAt the age of ten he attended the Christian church against the wishes of his parents, and became a catechumen. Christianity had been made a legal religion (in 313) in the Roman Empire. It had many more adherents in the Eastern Empire, whence it had sprung, and was concentrated in cities, brought along the trade routes by converted Jews and Greeks (the term 'pagan' literally means 'country-dweller'). Christianity was far from accepted amongst the higher echelons of society; among members of the army the worship of Mithras would have been stronger. Although the conversion of the Emperor Constantine and the subsequent programme of church-building gave a greater impetus to the spread of the religion, it was still a minority faith.\n\nAs the son of a veteran officer, Martin at fifteen was required to join a cavalry \"ala.\" At the age of 18 around 334 or 354, he was stationed at \"Ambianensium civitas\" or Samarobriva in Gaul (now Amiens, France). It is likely that he joined the \"Equites catafractarii Ambianenses\", a heavy cavalry unit listed in the \"Notitia Dignitatum\". As the unit was stationed at Milan and is also recorded at Trier, it is likely to have been part of the elite cavalry bodyguard of the Emperor, which accompanied him on his travels around the Empire. \nAccording to his biographer, Sulpicius Severus, he served in the military for only another two years, though it has been argued that these two years, \"are in fact not nearly enough to bring the account to the time when he would leave, that is, during his encounter with Caesar Julian (the one who has gone down in history as Julian the Apostate) Martin would have been 45 years old when Julian acceded to the throne, and at the usual end of a military contract.\nJacques Fontaine thinks that the biographer was somewhat embarrassed about referring to [Martin's] long stint in the army, [because of the perennially tenuous relation between the Christian conscience and war].\" \nSuch scholars as would present Martin Conscripted as the prototype of conscientious objectors\nhold that Martin would have remained in the army for the entirety of his prescribed twenty-five year term, and that, in their opinion, such service need not have obliged him to violate his Christian conscience by shedding blood on the battlefield.\n\nRegardless of whether or not he remained in the army, Sulpicius Severus reports that just before a battle in the Gallic provinces at Borbetomagus (now Worms, Germany), Martin determined that his switch of allegiance to a new commanding officer (away from antichristian Julian and unto Christ), along with reticence to receive Julian's pay just as Martin was retiring, prohibited his taking the money and continuing to submit to the authority of the former now, telling him, \"I am the soldier of Christ: it is not lawful for me to fight.\" He was charged with cowardice and jailed, but in response to the charge, he volunteered to go unarmed to the front of the troops. His superiors planned to take him up on the offer, but before they could, the invaders sued for peace, the battle never occurred, and Martin was released from military service.\n\nMartin declared his vocation, and made his way to the city of Caesarodunum (now Tours), where he became a disciple of Hilary of Poitiers, a chief proponent of Trinitarian Christianity. He opposed the Arianism of the Imperial Court. When Hilary was forced into exile from Pictavium (now Poitiers), Martin returned to Italy. According to Sulpicius Severus, he converted an Alpine brigand on the way, and confronted the Devil himself. Having heard in a dream a summons to revisit his home, Martin crossed the Alps, and from Milan went over to Pannonia. There he converted his mother and some other persons; his father he could not win. While in Illyricum he took sides against the Arians with so much zeal that he was publicly scourged and forced to leave. Returning from Illyria, he was confronted by the Arian archbishop of Milan Auxentius, who expelled him from the city. According to the early sources, Martin decided to seek shelter on the island then called Gallinaria, now Isola d'Albenga, in the Ligurian Sea, where he lived the solitary life of a hermit.\n\nWith the return of Hilary to his see in 361, Martin joined him and established a hermitage nearby, which soon attracted converts and followers. The crypt under the parish church (not the current Abbey Chapel) reveals traces of a Roman villa, probably part of the bath complex, which had been abandoned before Martin established himself there. This site was developed into the Benedictine Ligugé Abbey, the oldest monastery known in Europe. It became a centre for the evangelisation of the country districts. He travelled and preached through western Gaul: \"The memory of these apostolic journeyings survives to our day in the numerous local legends of which Martin is the hero and which indicate roughly the routes that he followed.\"\n\nIn AD 371 Martin was acclaimed bishop of Tours, where he impressed the city with his demeanour. He had been drawn to Tours by a ruse — he was urged to come to minister to someone sick — and was brought to the church, where he reluctantly allowed himself to be consecrated bishop. According to one version, he was so unwilling to be made bishop that he hid in a barn full of geese, but their cackling at his intrusion gave him away to the crowd; that may account for complaints by a few that his appearance was too disheveled to be commensurate with a bishopric, but the critics were hugely outnumbered.\n\nAs bishop, Martin set to enthusiastically ordering the destruction of pagan temples, altars and sculptures:\n\"[W]hen in a certain village he had demolished a very ancient temple, and had set about cutting down a pine-tree, which stood close to the temple, the chief priest of that place, and a crowd of other heathens began to oppose him; and these people, though, under the influence of the Lord, they had been quiet while the temple was being overthrown, could not patiently allow the tree to be cut down\". \n\nSulpicius affirms that Martin withdrew from the city to live in Marmoutier (\"Majus Monasterium\"), the monastery he founded, which faces Tours from the opposite shore of the Loire. Recent excavations under the abbey church have revealed the traces of a Roman posting station, beside the main Roman road along the north bank of the Loire, which seems to have been the original dwelling for the community; the 'caves' on the site are post-Roman and are probably the result of quarrying the coteau for the Romanesque abbey buildings.\n\"Here Martin and some of the monks who followed him built cells of wood; others lived in caves dug out of the rock\" (Sulpicius Severus).\nMartin introduced a rudimentary parish system. Once a year the bishop visited each of his parishes, traveling on foot, or by donkey or boat. He continued to set up monastic communities, and extended the bounds of his episcopate from Touraine to such distant points as Chartres, Paris, Autun, and Vienne.\n\nIn one instance, the pagans agreed to fell their sacred fir tree, if Martin would stand directly in its path. He did so, and it miraculously missed him. Sulpicius, a classically educated aristocrat, related this anecdote with dramatic details, as a set piece. Sulpicius could not have failed to know the incident the Roman poet Horace recalls in several \"Odes\", of his narrow escape from a falling tree.\n\nMartin was so dedicated to the freeing of prisoners that when authorities, even emperors, heard he was coming, they refused to see him because they knew he would request mercy for someone and they would be unable to refuse.\n\nThe churches of other parts of Gaul and in Spain were being disturbed by the Priscillianists, an ascetic sect, named after its leader, Priscillian. The First Council of Saragossa had forbidden several of Priscillian's practices (albeit without mentioning Priscillian by name), but Priscillian was elected bishop of Avila shortly thereafter. Ithacius of Ossonoba appealed to the emperor Gratian, who issued a rescript against Priscillian and his followers. After failing to obtain the support of Ambrose of Milan and Pope Damasus I, Priscillian appealed to Magnus Maximus, who had usurped the throne from Gratian.\n\nAlthough Greatly opposed to the Priscillianists, Martin traveled to the Imperial court of Trier to remove them from the secular jurisdiction of the emperor. With Ambrose, Martin rejected Bishop Ithacius’s principle of putting heretics to death—as well as the intrusion of the emperor into such matters. He prevailed upon the emperor to spare the life of the heretic Priscillian. At first, Maximus acceded to his entreaty, but, when Martin had departed, yielded to Ithacius and ordered Priscillian and his followers to be beheaded (385). Martin then pleaded for a cessation of the persecution of Priscillian’s followers in Spain. Deeply grieved, Martin refused to communicate with Ithacius, until pressured by the Emperor.\n\nMartin died in Candes-Saint-Martin, Gaul (central France) in 397.\n\nThe Abbey of Marmoutier was a monastery just outside today's city of Tours in Indre-et-Loire, France established by Martin around 372. The saint founded the monastery to escape attention and live life as a monastic. The Abbey at Tours was one of the most prominent and influential establishments in medieval France. Charlemagne awarded the position of Abbot to his friend and adviser Alcuin. \nAt this time the Abbot could travel between Tours and the court at Trier in Germany and always stay overnight at one of his own properties. It was at Tours that Alcuin's scriptorium (a room in monasteries devoted to the copying of manuscripts by monastic scribes) developed Caroline minuscule, the clear round hand which made manuscripts far more legible.\n\nIn later times the abbey was destroyed by fire on several occasions and ransacked by Norman Vikings in 853 and in 903. It burned again in 994, and was rebuilt by Hervé de Buzançais, treasurer of Saint Martin, an effort that took 20 years to complete. Expanded to accommodate the crowds of pilgrims and to attract them, the shrine of St. Martin of Tours became a major stopping-point on pilgrimages. In 1453 the remains of Saint Martin were transferred to a magnificent new reliquary donated by Charles VII of France and Agnes Sorel.\n\nDuring the French Wars of Religion, the basilica was sacked by the Protestant Huguenots in 1562. It was disestablished during the French Revolution. It was deconsecrated, used as a stable, then utterly demolished. Its dressed stones were sold in 1802 after two streets were built across the site, to ensure the abbey would not be reconstructed.\n\nWhile Martin was a soldier in the Roman army and stationed in Gaul (modern-day France), he experienced a vision, which became the most-repeated story about his life. One day as he was approaching the gates of the city of Amiens, he met a scantily clad beggar. He impulsively cut his military cloak in half to share with the man. That night, Martin dreamed of Jesus wearing the half-cloak he had given away. He heard Jesus say to the angels: \"Martin, who is still but a catechumen, clothed me with this robe.\" (Sulpicius, ch 2). In another version, when Martin woke, he found his cloak restored to wholeness. The dream confirmed Martin in his piety, and he was baptised at the age of 18.\n\nThe part kept by himself became the famous relic preserved in the oratory of the Merovingian kings of the Franks at the Marmoutier Abbey near Tours. During the Middle Ages, the supposed relic of St. Martin’s miraculous cloak, (\"cappa Sancti Martini\") was carried by the king even into battle, and used as a holy relic upon which oaths were sworn. The cloak is first attested in the royal treasury in 679, when it was conserved at the \"palatium\" of Luzarches, a royal villa that was later ceded to the monks of Saint-Denis by Charlemagne, in 798/99.\n\nThe priest who cared for the cloak in its reliquary was called a \"cappellanu\", and ultimately all priests who served the military were called \"cappellani\". The French translation is \"chapelains\", from which the English word \"chaplain\" is derived.\n\nA similar linguistic development took place for the term referring to the small temporary churches built for the relic. People called them a \"capella\", the word for a little cloak. Eventually, such small churches lost their association with the cloak, and all small churches began to be referred to as \"chapels\".\n\nThe early life of Saint Martin was written by Sulpicius Severus, who knew him personally. It expresses the intimate closeness the 4th-century Christian felt with the Devil in all his disguises, and has many accounts of miracles. Some follow familiar conventions— casting out devils, raising the paralytic and the dead. Others are more unusual: turning back the flames from a house while Martin was burning down the Roman temple it adjoined; deflecting the path of a felled sacred pine; the healing power of a letter written from Martin.\n\nThe veneration of Martin was widely popular in the Middle Ages, above all in the region between the Loire and the Marne, where Le Roy Ladurie and Zysberg noted the densest accretion of hagiotoponyms commemorating Martin. Venantius Fortunatus had earlier declared, \"Wherever Christ is known, Martin is honored.\"\n\nWhen Bishop Perpetuus took office at Tours in 461, the little chapel over Martin's grave, built in the previous century by Martin's immediate successor, Bricius, was no longer sufficient for the crowd of pilgrims it was already drawing. Perpetuus built a larger basilica, 38 m long and 18 m wide, with 120 columns. Martin's body was taken from the simple chapel at his hermitage at Candes-St-Martin to Tours and his sarcophagus was reburied behind the high altar of the new basilica. A large block of marble above the tomb, the gift of bishop Euphronius of Autun (472-475), rendered it visible to the faithful gathered behind the high altar. Werner Jacobsen suggests it may also have been visible to pilgrims encamped in the atrium of the basilica. Contrary to the usual arrangement, the atrium was situated behind' the church, close to the tomb in the apse, which may have been visible through a \"fenestrella\" in the apse wall.\n\nSt. Martin's popularity can be partially attributed to his adoption by successive royal houses of France. Clovis, King of the Salian Franks, one of many warring tribes in sixth-century France, promised his Christian wife Clotilda that he would be baptised if he was victorious over the Alemanni. He credited the intervention of St Martin with his success, and with several following triumphs, including the defeat of Alaric II. The popular devotion to St Martin continued to be closely identified with the Merovingian monarchy: in the early seventh century Dagobert I commissioned the goldsmith Saint Eligius to make a work in gold and gems for the tomb-shrine. The bishop Gregory of Tours wrote and distributed an influential \"Life\" filled with miraculous events of St. Martin's career. Martin's \"cultus\" survived the passage of power to their successors, the Carolingian dynasty.\nIn 1860 excavations by Leo Dupont (1797–1876) established the dimensions of the former abbey and recovered some fragments of architecture. The tomb of St. Martin was rediscovered on December 14, 1860, which aided in the nineteenth-century revival of the popular devotion to St. Martin.\n\nAfter the radical Paris Commune of 1871, there was a resurgence of conservative Catholic piety, and the church decided to build a basilica to St. Martin. They selected Victor Laloux as architect. He eschewed Gothic for a mix of Romanesque and Byzantine, sometimes defined as neo-Byzantine. The new Basilique Saint-Martin was erected on a portion of its former site, which was purchased from the owners. Started in 1886, the church was consecrated 4 July 1925.\n\nMartin's renewed popularity in France was related to his promotion as a military saint during the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-1871. \nDuring the military and political crisis of the Franco-Prussian war, Napoleon III's Second Empire collapsed. After the surrender of Napoleon to the Prussians after the Battle of Sedan in September 1870, a provisional government of national defense was established, and France's Third Republic was proclaimed. Paris was evacuated due to the advancing enemy and for a brief time, Tours (September–December 1870) became the effective capital of France.\n\nSt Martin was promoted by the clerical right as the protector of the nation against the German threat. Conservatives associated the dramatic collapse of Napoleon III’s regime as a sign of divine retribution on the irreligious emperor. Priests interpreted it as punishment for a nation led astray due to years of anti-clericalism. They preached repentance and a return to religion for political stability. The ruined towers of the old royal basilica of St. Martin at Tours came to symbolize the decline of traditional Catholic France.\n\nWith the government's relocation to Tours during the Franco-Prussian War, 1870, numerous pilgrims were attracted to St. Martin’s tomb. It was covered by a temporary chapel built by Monsignor Guibert (archbishop of Tours, 1857-1871). The popular devotion to St. Martin was also associated with the nationalistic devotion to the Sacred Heart. The flag of Sacre-Coeur, borne by Ultramontane Catholic Pontifical Zouaves who fought at Patay, had been placed overnight in St. Martin’s tomb before being taken into battle on October 9, 1870. The banner read \"Heart of Jesus Save France\" and on the reverse side Carmelite nuns of Tours embroidered \"Saint Martin Protect France\".As the French army was victorious in Patay, many among the faithful took the victory to be the result of divine favor. Popular hymns of the 1870s developed the theme of national protection under the cover of Martin's cloak, the \"first flag of France\".\n\nDuring the nineteenth-century Frenchmen, influenced by secularism, agnosticism, and anti-clericalism, deserted the church in great numbers. As Martin was a man's saint, the devotion to him was an exception to this trend. For men serving in the military, Martin of Tours was presented by the Catholic Right as the masculine model of principled behavior. He was a brave fighter, knew his obligation to the poor, shared his goods, performed his required military service, followed legitimate orders, and respected secular authority.\n\nDuring the 1870s, the procession to St. Martin's tomb at Tours became a display of ecclesiastical and military cooperation. Army officers in full uniform acted as military escorts, symbolically protecting the clergy and clearing the path for them. Anti-clerics viewed the staging of public religious processions as a violation of civic space. In 1878, M. Rivière, the provisional mayor of Tours, with anticlerical support banned the November procession in honor of St. Martin. President Patrice de Mac-Mahon was succeeded by the Republican Jules Grévy, who created a new national anticlerical offensive. Bishop Louis-Édouard-François-Desiré Pie of Poitiers united conservatives and devised a massive demonstration for the November 1879 procession. Pie's ultimate hope was that St Martin would stop the “chariot” of modern society, and lead to the creation of a France where the religious and secular sectors merged.\n\nThe struggle between the two men was reflective of that between conservatives and anti-clerics over the church’s power in the army. From 1874, military chaplains were allowed in the army in times of peace, but anti-clerics viewed the chaplains as sinister monarchists and counter-revolutionaries. Conservatives responded by creating the short-lived Legion de Saint Maurice in 1878 and the society, Notre Dame de Soldats, to provide unpaid voluntary chaplains with financial support. The legislature passed the anticlerical Duvaux Bill of 1880, which reduced the number of chaplains in the French army. Anticlerical legislators wanted commanders, not chaplains, to provide troops with moral support and to supervise their formation in the established faith of \"patriotic Republicanism.\"\n\nSt. Martin has long been associated with France’s royal heritage. Monsignor René François Renou (Archbishop of Tours, 1896–1913) worked to associate St. Martin as a specifically \"republican\" patron. Renou had served as a chaplain to the 88 Régiment des mobils d'Indre-et-Loire during the Franco-Prussian war and was known as the \"army bishop.\" Renou was a strong supporter of St. Martin and believed that the national destiny of France and all its victories were attributed to him. He linked the military to the cloak of St. Martin, which was the “first flag of France” to the French tricolor, “the symbol of the union of the old and new.” This flag symbolism connected the devotion to St. Martin with the Third Republic. But, the tensions of the Dreyfus Affair renewed anti-clericalism in France and drove a wedge between the Church and the Republic. By 1905, the influence of Rene Waldeck-Rousseau and Emile Combes, combined with deteriorating relations with the Vatican, led to the separation of church and state.\n\nSt. Martin’s popularity was renewed during the First World War. Anticlericalism declined, and priests served in the French forces as chaplains. More than 5,000 of them died in the war. In 1916, Assumptionists organized a national pilgrimage to Tours that attracted people from all of France. The devotion to St. Martin was amplified in the dioceses of France, where special prayers were offered to the patron saint. When the armistice was signed on Saint Martin’s Day, 11 November 1918, the French people saw it was a sign of his intercession in the affairs of France.\n\nHe is the patron saint of beggars (because of his sharing his cloak), wool-weavers and tailors (also because of his cloak), he is also the patron saint of the US Army Quartermaster Corps even though he detested violence (also because of sharing his cloak), geese (some say because they gave his hiding place away when he tried to avoid being chosen as bishop, others because their migration coincides with his feast), vintners and innkeepers (because his feast falls just after the late grape harvest), and France.\n\nBeyond his patronage of the French Third Republic, Saint Martin more recently has also been described in terms of \"a spiritual bridge across Europe\" due to his \"international\" background, being a native of Pannonia who spent his adult life in Gaul.\n\nMartin is most generally portrayed on horseback dividing his cloak with the beggar. His emblem in English art is often that of a goose, whose annual migration is about late Autumn.\n\nThe Museum Catharijneconvent in Utrecht has a relic in its collection which is called \"the hammer of St. Martin of Tours\" (Latin: \"maleus beati Martini\"). It was made in the 13th or 14th century from a late Bronze Age stone axe from ca. 1,000 - 700 BC, though the dating is uncertain. The grip contains a Latin text saying \"Ydola vanurunt Martini cesa securi nemo deos credat qui sic fuerant ruicuri\" (\"the pagan statues fall down, hit by St. Martin's axe. Let nobody believe that those are gods, who so easily fall down\"). Legend says that the axe belonged to St. Martin, and was used to hit the devil and to destroy the heathen temples and statues.\n\nBy the early 9th century, respect for Saint Martin was well-established in Ireland. His monastery at Marmoûtiers became the training ground for many Celtic missions and missionaries. Some believe that St. Patrick was his nephew and that Patrick was one of many Celtic notables who lived for a time at Marmoûtiers. St. Ninian definitely studied at Marmoûtiers and was profoundly influenced by Martin, carrying a deep love and respect for his teacher and his methods back to Scotland. Ninian was in the process of building a church when news reached him of Martin's death. Ninian dedicated that church to Martin.\nThe Book of Armagh contains three distinct groups of material: (1) a complete text of the New Testament, (2) a dossier of materials on Saint Patrick, and (3) almost the complete body of writings on Saint Martin by Sulpicius Severus.\n\nIn Jonas of Bobbio's \"Vita Columbani\", Jonas relates that Saint Columbanus, while travelling, requested to be allowed to pray at the tomb of St Martin. The Irish palimpsest sacramentary from the mid-7th century contains the text of a mass for St Martin. In the \"Life of Columba\", Adamnan mentions in passing that St Martin was commemorated during Mass at Iona.\n\nIn his \"Ireland and Her Neighbours in the Seventh Century\", Michael Richter attributes this to the mission of Palladius seen within the wider context of the mission of Germanus of Auxerre to Britain around 429. Thus, this could be the context in which the Life of St Martin was brought from Gaul to Ireland at an early date, and could explain how Columbanus was familiar with it before he ever left Ireland.\n\nFounded by Martin of Tours in 360, Ligugé Abbey is one of the earliest monastic foundations in France. The reputation of the founder attracted a large number of disciples to the new monastery; the disciples initially living in locaciacum or small huts, this name later evolved to Ligugé. Its reputation was soon eclipsed by Martin's later foundation at Marmoutier. As of 2013, the Benedictine community at Ligugé numbered twenty-five.\n\nFrom the late 4th century to the late Middle Ages, much of Western Europe, including Great Britain, engaged in a period of fasting beginning on the day after St. Martin's Day, November 11. This fast period lasted 40 days, and was, therefore, called \"Quadragesima Sancti Martini\", which means in Latin \"the forty days of St. Martin.\" At St. Martin's eve and on the feast day, people ate and drank very heartily for a last time before they started to fast. This fasting time was later called \"Advent\" by the Church and was considered a time for spiritual preparation for Christmas.\n\nOn St. Martin's Day, children in Flanders, the southern and north-western parts of the Netherlands, and the Catholic areas of Germany and Austria still participate in paper lantern processions. Often, a man dressed as St. Martin rides on a horse in front of the procession. The children sing songs about St. Martin and about their lanterns. The food traditionally eaten on the day is goose, a rich bird. According to legend, Martin was reluctant to become bishop, which is why he hid in a stable filled with geese. The noise made by the geese betrayed his location to the people who were looking for him.\nIn the east part of the Belgian province of East-Flanders (Aalst) and the west part of West Flanders (Ypres), traditionally children receive presents from St. Martin on November 11, instead of from Saint Nicholas on December 6 or Santa Claus on December 25. They also have lantern processions, for which children make lanterns out of beets. In recent years, the lantern processions have become widespread as a popular ritual, even in Protestant areas of Germany and the Netherlands. Most Protestant churches no longer officially recognize Saints.\n\nIn Portugal, where the saint's day is celebrated across the country, it is common for families and friends to gather around the fire in reunions called \"magustos,\" where they typically eat roasted chestnuts and drink wine, \"jeropiga\" (drink made of grape must and firewater) and \"aguapé\" (a sort of weak and watered-down wine). According to the most widespread variation of the cloak story, Saint Martin cut off half of his cloak in order to offer it to a beggar and along the way, he gave the remaining part to a second beggar. As he faced a long ride in a freezing weather, the dark clouds cleared away and the sun shone so intensely that the frost melted away. Such weather was rare for early November, so was credited to God's intervention. The phenomenon of a sunny break to the chilly weather on Saint Martin's Day (11 November) is called \"Verão de São Martinho\" (Saint Martin's Summer, \"veranillo de san Martín\" in Spanish) in honor of the cloak legend.\n\nMany churches are named after Saint Martin of Tours. St Martin-in-the-fields, at Trafalgar Square in the centre of London, has a history appropriately associated with Martin's renunciation of war; Dick Sheppard, founder of the Peace Pledge Union, was Vicar 1914-26, and there is a memorial chapel for him, with a plaque for Vera Brittain, also a noted Anglican pacifist; the steps of the church are often used for peace vigils. Saint Martin's Cathedral, in Ypres, Belgium, is dedicated to him. St. Martin is the patron saint of Szombathely, Hungary, with a church dedicated to him, and also the patron saint of Buenos Aires. In the Netherlands, he is the patron of the cathedral and city of Utrecht. He is the patron of the city of Groningen; its Martini tower and Martinikerk (Groningen) (Martin's Church) were named for him.\nHe is also the patron of the church and town of Bocaue.\n\nSt. Martin's Church in Kaiserslautern, Germany is a major city landmark. It is located in the heart of the city's downtown in St. Martin's Square, and is surrounded by a number of restaurants and shops. The church was originally built as a Franciscan monastery in the 14th century and has a number of unique architectural features.\n\nSt. Martin is the patron saint of the Polish towns of Bydgoszcz and Opatów. His day is celebrated with a procession and festivities in the city of Poznań, where the main street (\"Święty Marcin\") is named for him, after a 13th-century church in his honor. A special type of crescent cake \"(rogal świętomarciński)\" is baked for the occasion. As November 11 is also Polish Independence Day, it is a public holiday.\n\nIn Latin America, St. Martin has a strong popular following and is frequently referred to as San Martín Caballero, in reference to his common depiction on horseback. Mexican folklore believes him to be a particularly helpful saint toward business owners.\nSan Martín de Loba is the name of a municipality in the Bolívar Department of Colombia. Saint Martin, as San Martín de Loba, is the patron saint of Vasquez, a small village in Colombia.\n\nIn Finland, the town and municipality Marttila (\"S:t Mårtens\" in swedish) is named after St. Martin and depicts him on their coat of arms.\n\nThough no mention of St. Martin's connection with viticulture is made by Gregory of Tours or other early hagiographers, he is now credited with a prominent role in spreading wine-making throughout the Touraine region and the planting of many vines. The Greek myth that Aristaeus first discovered the concept of pruning the vines, after watching a goat eat some of the foliage, has been adopted for Martin. He is also credited with introducing the Chenin blanc grape varietal, from which most of the white wine of western Touraine and Anjou is made.\n\nMartin Luther was named after St. Martin, as he was baptised on November 11 (St. Martin's Day), 1483. Many older Lutheran congregations are named after St. Martin, which is unusual (for Lutherans) because he is a saint who does not appear in the Bible. (Lutherans regularly name congregations after the evangelists and other saints who appear in the Bible but are hesitant to name congregations after post-Biblical saints.)\n\nMartin of Tours is the patron saint of the U.S. Army Quartermaster Corps, which has a medal in his name. The Church Lads' and Church Girls' Brigade, a 5-7 age group, was renamed 'Martins' in his honour in 1998.\nMany schools have St Martin as their Patron, one being St. Martin's School (Rosettenville) in Johannesburg.\n\nThe Dutch film \"Flesh and Blood\" (1985) prominently features a statue of Saint Martin. A mercenary in Renaissance Italy, named Martin, finds a statue of Saint Martin cutting his cloak and takes it as a sign to desert and rogue around under the saint's protection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3459182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3459182", "title": "Mary John Sr.", "text": "Mary John Sr.\n\nMary John Sr. CM (June 15, 1913 – September 30, 2004) was a leader of the Carrier people of the central interior of British Columbia in Canada. She was known as \"Mary John Sr.\" to distinguish her from her daughter-in-law, also named Mary John. She became well known both for her political and social activism and as a role model, a person of enormous integrity, strength, and gentleness.\n\nJohn was born at Lheidli (near Prince George, British Columbia) to Anzel Quaw. She grew up in Saik'uz (Stoney Creek) village, raised by her mother and her stepfather Johnny Paul. She was a member of the Tachek clan, whose crests are cariboo and ruffed grouse. She survived the flu epidemic of 1918, during which, only five years old, she had to care for her sick mother. At the age of eight she was sent to the residential school in Fort St James where she learned English. The next year she moved to the newly established Lejac Residential School, which she attended until she was fourteen years old. At the age of sixteen she married Lazare John, with whom she had twelve children.\n\nIn 1942 she helped to found the local chapter of the British Columbia Homemakers' Association,\nof which she was the first President. She later served as district president. Although the\nHomemakers' Association was intended by the Department of Indian Affairs to teach homemaking skills to native women, she and other women turned it into a vehicle for political action. In the 1950s, with the help of her friend Bridget Moran, she founded the Welfare Committee, which worked to\nplace aboriginal children in aboriginal foster homes in or near their own community.\n\nIn 1980 along with her daughter Helen, and elders Celina John and Veronica George, she established the Stoney Creek Elders' Society. The Elders' Society built the Potlatch House and the associated campground as economic development initiatives. Still more important, the Elders' Society provided the impetus for social change and political action.\n\nIn the 1980s, she began her liaison work with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. She invited the staff to her fishing camp for a barbecue every summer. She eventually served on the Aboriginal Advisory Committee to the Commanding Officer of RCMP \"E\" Division, a province-wide body, of which she was a founding member.\n\nMary John was greatly concerned with the preservation of her culture and language, of which she was a fluent speaker. In the 1970s she taught Carrier language and culture at St. Joseph's School, the Catholic school in Vanderhoof, British Columbia, as well as several conversational Carrier courses for adults.\nShe was one of the founders of the Yinka Dene Language Institute of which she became\nthe Permanent Honorary Chair. She was one of the principal contributors to the \"Saik'uz Children's Dictionary\" and other teaching materials. From 1992 until her death she worked tirelessly with linguist Bill Poser to document her dying language.\n\nIn her later years Mary John received many honors. In 1978 she was honored as Vanderhoof Citizen of the Year, the first time that a native person had received this award. In 1995 she received an honorary degree from the University of Northern British Columbia. In 1997 she was made a Member of the Order of Canada with the following citation:\nA well-loved and respected elder of the Carrier Nation of the Stoney Creek Reserve in British Columbia, she has dedicated her life to helping others. She is the strong force and influence behind the success of many positive initiatives and was one of the originators of the Friendship House, a community centre for Native and non-Native people. She survived many hardships to emerge as a respected elder, counsellor, midwife, educator and conciliator between the Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal communities. Now in her eighties, she is still promoting the Carrier culture to the younger generation.\nIn 2002 she received the Queen's Jubilee Medal.\n\nIn January, 2008 the Vanderhoof Public Library opened the \"Mary John Collection\", a collection of 800 books on First Nations topics created in her honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165113", "title": "Neil Diamond", "text": "Neil Diamond\n\nNeil Leslie Diamond (born January 24, 1941) is an American singer-songwriter, musician and actor. With 38 songs in the Top 10 on the \"Billboard\" Adult Contemporary charts, Diamond has sold more than 100 million records worldwide, making him one of the best-selling musicians of all time. On the Hot 100 and Adult Contemporary charts, he has had ten No. 1 singles: \"Cracklin' Rosie\", \"Song Sung Blue\", \"Longfellow Serenade\", \"I've Been This Way Before\", \"If You Know What I Mean\", \"Desiree\", \"You Don't Bring Me Flowers\", \"America\", \"Yesterday's Songs\", and \"Heartlight\".\n\nDiamond was inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1984 and into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2011. Additionally, he received the Sammy Cahn Lifetime Achievement Award in 2000 and in 2011 was an honoree at the Kennedy Center. In 2018, Diamond received the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award.\n\nDiamond was born in Brooklyn, New York, to a Jewish family descended from Russian and Polish immigrants. His parents were Rose (née Rapoport) and Akeeba \"Kieve\" Diamond, a dry-goods merchant. He grew up in several homes in Brooklyn, having also spent four years in Cheyenne, Wyoming, where his father was stationed in the army. In Brooklyn he attended Erasmus Hall High School and was a member of the Freshman Chorus and Choral Club, along with classmate Barbra Streisand; Diamond recalled they were not close friends at the time: \"We were two poor kids in Brooklyn. We hung out in the front of Erasmus High and smoked cigarettes.\" After his family moved, he then attended Abraham Lincoln High School, and was a member of the fencing team. Also on the team was his best friend, future Olympic fencer Herb Cohen.\n\nFor his 16th birthday, he received his first guitar. When he was 16 and still in high school, Diamond spent a number of weeks at Surprise Lake Camp, a camp for Jewish children in upstate New York, when folk singer Pete Seeger performed a small concert. Seeing the widely recognized singer perform, and watching other children singing songs for Seeger that they wrote themselves, had an immediate effect on Diamond, who then became aware of the possibility of writing his own songs. \"And the next thing, I got a guitar when we got back to Brooklyn, started to take lessons and almost immediately began to write songs,\" he said. He added that his attraction to songwriting was the \"first real interest\" he had growing up, besides helping him release his youthful \"frustrations\".\n\nDiamond also used his newly developing skill to write poetry. By writing poems for girls he was attracted to in school, he soon learned it often won their hearts. His male classmates took note and began asking him to write poems for them which they would sing and use with equal success. He spent the summer following his graduation as a waiter in the Catskills resort area. There he first met Jaye Posner, who would years later become his wife.\n\nDiamond next attended New York University as a pre-med major on a fencing scholarship, again on the fencing team with Herb Cohen. He was a member of the 1960 NCAA men's championship fencing team. Often bored in class, he found writing song lyrics more to his liking. He began cutting classes and taking the train up to Tin Pan Alley, where he tried to get some of his songs heard by local music publishers. In his senior year, when he was just 10 units short of graduation, Sunbeam Music Publishing offered him a 16-week job writing songs for $50 a week (equivalent to about US$ per week, in dollars), and he dropped out of college to accept it.\n\nAfter his 16 weeks at Sunbeam Music were up, he was not rehired, and began writing and singing his own songs for demo purposes. \"I never really chose songwriting,\" he says. \"It just absorbed me and became more and more important in my life.\"\n\nDiamond's first recording contract was billed as \"Neil and Jack\", an Everly Brothers-type duo comprising Diamond and high school friend Jack Packer. They recorded two unsuccessful singles: \"You Are My Love at Last\" b/w \"What Will I Do\" and \"I'm Afraid\" b/w \"Till You've Tried Love\", both released in 1962. \"Cashbox\" and \"Billboard\" magazines gave all four sides excellent reviews. Later in 1962, Diamond signed with Columbia Records as a solo performer. In July 1963 Columbia released the single \"At Night\" b/w \"Clown Town\", which \"Billboard\" gave an excellent review to Clown Town and \"Cashbox\" gave both sides excellent reviews, but it still failed to chart. Columbia dropped him from their label and he went back to writing songs in and out of publishing houses for the next seven years.\n\nHe wrote wherever he could, including on buses, and used an upright piano above the Birdland Club in New York City. One of the causes of this early nomadic life as a songwriter was his songs' wordiness: \"I'd spent a lot of time on lyrics, and they were looking for hooks, and I didn't really understand the nature of that,\" he says.\n\nDuring those years, he was able to sell only about one song a week, barely enough to survive on. He found himself earning enough to spend only 35 cents a day on food (US$ in dollars). But the privacy he had above the Birdland Club allowed him to focus on writing without distractions; as he explained, \"Something new began to happen. I wasn't under the gun, and suddenly interesting songs began to happen, songs that had things none of the others did.\" Among them were \"Cherry, Cherry\" and \"Solitary Man\". \"Solitary Man\" was the first record Diamond recorded under his own name that made the charts. It remains one of his personal all-time favorites, as it was about his early years as a songwriter, even though he failed to realize it at the time:\nDiamond spent his early career as a songwriter in the Brill Building. His first success as a songwriter came in November 1965, with \"Sunday and Me\", a Top 20 hit for Jay and the Americans. Greater success followed with \"I'm a Believer\", \"A Little Bit Me, a Little Bit You\", \"Look Out (Here Comes Tomorrow)\", and \"Love to Love\", all performed by the Monkees. Diamond wrote and recorded the songs for himself, but the cover versions were released before his own. The unintended, but happy, consequence was that Diamond began to gain fame not only as a singer and performer, but also as a songwriter. \"I'm a Believer\" became a gold record within two days of its release, and stayed at the top of the charts for seven weeks, making it the Popular Music Song of the Year in 1966.\n\n\"And the Grass Won't Pay No Mind\" brought covers from Elvis Presley (who also interpreted \"Sweet Caroline\") and Mark Lindsay, former lead singer for Paul Revere & the Raiders. Other notable artists who recorded his early songs were the English hard-rock band Deep Purple, Lulu, and Cliff Richard.\n\nIn 1966, Diamond signed a deal with Bert Berns's Bang Records, then a subsidiary of Atlantic. His first release on that label, \"Solitary Man\", became his first true hit as a solo artist. Diamond later followed with \"Cherry, Cherry\" and \"Kentucky Woman\".\n\nHis early concerts saw him as a \"special guest\" of, or opening for, everyone from Herman's Hermits to, on one occasion, the Who. As a guest performer with The Who, he was shocked to see Pete Townshend swinging his guitar like a club and then throwing it against walls and off the stage until the instrument's neck broke. It was the first time he had seen a band smashing their instruments and amplifiers to pieces.\n\nDiamond began to feel restricted by Bang Records, because he wanted to record more ambitious, introspective music, like his autobiographical \"Brooklyn Roads\" from 1968. Berns wanted to release \"Kentucky Woman\" as a single, but Diamond was no longer satisfied writing simple pop songs, so he proposed \"Shilo\", which was not about the Civil War but rather an imaginary childhood friend. Bang believed that the song wasn't commercial enough, so it was relegated to being an LP track on \"Just for You\". In addition to being dissatisfied with his royalties, Diamond tried to sign with another record label after discovering a loophole in his contract that did not bind him exclusively to either WEB IV or Tallyrand, but the result was a series of lawsuits that coincided with a slump in his record sales and professional success. A magistrate refused WEB IV's request for a temporary injunction to prevent Diamond from joining another record company while his contract dispute continued in court, but the lawsuits persisted until February 18, 1977, when he triumphed in court and purchased the rights to his Bang-era master tapes.\n\nOn March 18, 1968, Diamond signed a deal with Uni Records; the label was named after Universal Pictures, whose owner, MCA Inc., later consolidated its labels into MCA Records (now called Universal Records). His debut album for Uni was \"Velvet Gloves and Spit\", produced by Tom Catalano, which did not chart, and he recorded the follow-up \"Brother Love's Traveling Salvation Show\" at American Sound Studios in Memphis with Tommy Cogbill and Chips Moman producing.\n\nIn late 1969, he moved to Los Angeles. After \"Brother Love's Travelling Salvation Show\" in February 1969, his sound mellowed, with such songs as \"Sweet Caroline\" (1969), \"Holly Holy\" (1969), \"Cracklin' Rosie\" (1970) and \"Song Sung Blue\" (1972), the last two reaching No. 1 on the Hot 100. \"Sweet Caroline\" was Diamond's first major hit after his slump. In 2007 Diamond said he had written \"Sweet Caroline\" for Caroline Kennedy after seeing her on the cover of \"Life\" in an equestrian riding outfit, but in 2014, he said in an interview on the Today Show that it was written for his then wife, Marcia. He could not find a good rhyme with the name \"Marcia\", and so used the name Caroline. It took him just one hour, in a Memphis hotel, to write and compose it. The 1971 release \"I Am...I Said\" was a Top 5 hit in both the US and UK and was his most intensely personal effort to date, taking over four months to complete.\n\nIn 1971, Diamond played 7 sold-out concerts at the Greek Theater in Los Angeles. The outdoor theater, which was noted for showcasing the best of current entertainers, added a stereo sound system for the first time. Diamond was also backed by a 35-piece string orchestra and six backing singers. After the first night, one leading newspaper called it \"the finest concert in Greek Theater history.\"\n\nIn August 1972, he played again at the Greek, this time doing 10 shows. When the show was first announced, tickets at the 5000-seat theater sold out rapidly. He added a quadrophonic sound system for his performance, to create full surround-sound. Diamond recalled: \"Hot August Night\" captures a very special show for me. We went all out to really knock 'em dead in L.A.\"\n\nThe performance of August 24, 1972, was recorded and released as the live double album \"Hot August Night\". \"Hot August Night\" demonstrates Diamond's skills as a performer and showman, as he reinvigorated his back catalogue of hits with new energy. Many consider it his best work; critic Stephen Thomas Erlewine called \"Hot August Night\" \"the ultimate Neil Diamond record... [which] shows Diamond the icon in full glory.\" The album became a classic, and was remastered in 2000 with additional selections. In Australia, which at the time had the most Neil Diamond fans per capita of any country, the album ranked No. 1 for 29 weeks and stayed in their top 20 bestsellers for two years.\n\nIn the fall of 1972, Diamond performed for 20 consecutive nights at the Winter Garden Theater in New York City. The last time that theater had staged a one-man show had been when Al Jolson had performed there in the 1920s and the 1930s. The approximately 1,600-seat Broadway venue provided an intimate concert setting not common at the time, with every performance reportedly sold out. It also made Diamond the first rock-era star to headline on Broadway. The review in the \"New York Times\" stated:\nAfter the Winter Garden shows, Diamond announced that he needed a break, and he engaged in no more live performances till 1976. He used those four years to work on the score for Hall Bartlett's film version of Richard Bach's \"Jonathan Livingston Seagull\" and to record two albums, \"Serenade\" and \"Beautiful Noise\". He said years later, \"I knew I'd come back, but I wasn't sure when. I spent one year on each of those albums...I'd been on the road six years. I had a son 2½ and I felt he needed me more than the audience did. So for four years I devoted myself to my son Jesse.\" He also said he needed to get back to having a private life, one where he could be anonymous.\n\nIn 1973, Diamond switched labels again, returning to Columbia Records for a million-dollar-advance-per-album contract (US$ in dollars). His first project, released as a solo album, was the soundtrack to \"Jonathan Livingston Seagull\". The film received hostile reviews and did poorly at the box office, and the album grossed more than the film did. Richard D. Bach, author of the best-selling source story, disowned the film, and he and Diamond sued Bartlett, though for differing reasons; in Bach's case, it was because he felt the film omitted too much from the original novella, whereas in Diamond's case, it was because he felt the film had butchered his score. \"After 'Jonathan,'\" Diamond declared, \"I vowed never to get involved in a movie again unless I had complete control.\" Bartlett angrily responded to Diamond's lawsuit by criticizing his music as having become \"too slick...and it's not as much from his heart as it used to be.\" Bartlett also added, \"Neil is extraordinarily talented. Often his arrogance is just a cover for the lonely and insecure person underneath.\"\n\nDespite the controversy surrounding the film, the soundtrack was a success, peaking at No. 2 on the Billboard albums chart. Diamond also won a Golden Globe Award for Best Original Score and a Grammy Award for Best Score Soundtrack Album for a Motion Picture. Thereafter, Diamond often included a \"Jonathan Livingston Seagull\" suite in his live performances, as he did in his 1976 \"Love at the Greek\" concert and for his show in Las Vegas that same year.\n\nDiamond returned to live shows in 1976 with an Australian tour, \"The 'Thank You Australia' Concert\", which was broadcast to 36 television outlets nationwide. He also again appeared at the Greek Theater in a 1976 concert, \"Love at the Greek\". An album and accompanying video/DVD of the show includes a version of \"Song Sung Blue\" with duets with Helen Reddy and Henry Winkler, a.k.a. Arthur \"The Fonz\" Fonzarelli of \"Happy Days\".\n\nHe began wearing colorful beaded shirts in concert, originally so that everyone in the audience could see him without binoculars. Bill Whitten designed and made the shirts for Diamond from the 1970s till approximately 2007.\n\nIn 1974, Diamond released the album \"Serenade\", from which \"Longfellow Serenade\" and \"I've Been This Way Before\" were issued as singles. The latter had been intended for the \"Jonathan Livingston Seagull\" score, but Diamond had completed it too late for inclusion. That same year he appeared on a TV special for Shirley Bassey and sang a duet with her.\n\nIn 1976, he released \"Beautiful Noise\", produced by Robbie Robertson of The Band. On Thanksgiving 1976, Diamond made an appearance at The Band's farewell concert, \"The Last Waltz\", performing \"Dry Your Eyes\", which he wrote jointly with Robertson, and which had appeared on \"Beautiful Noise\". He also joined the rest of the performers onstage at the end in a rendition of Bob Dylan's \"I Shall Be Released\".\n\nDiamond was paid $650,000 (US$ in dollars) from the Aladdin Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada, to open its new $10 million Theater For the Performing Arts on July 2, 1976. The show played through July 5 and drew sold-out crowds at the 7,500-seat theater. A \"who's who\" of Hollywood attended opening night, ranging from Elizabeth Taylor to Chevy Chase, and Diamond walked out on stage to a standing ovation. He opened the show with a story about an ex-girlfriend who dumped him before he became successful. His lead-in line to the first song of the evening was, \"You may have dumped me a bit too soon, baby, because look who's standing here tonight.\"\n\nHe performed at Woburn Abbey on July 2, 1977, to an audience of 55,000 British fans. The concert and interviews were taped by film director William Friedkin, who used six cameras to capture the performance.\n\nIn 1977, Diamond released \"I'm Glad You're Here With Me Tonight\", including \"You Don't Bring Me Flowers\", for which he composed the music and on the writing of whose lyrics he collaborated with Alan Bergman and Marilyn Bergman. Barbra Streisand covered the song on her album \"Songbird\", and later, a Diamond-Streisand duet was recorded, spurred by the success of radio mash-ups. That version hit No. 1 in 1978, his third song to top the Hot 100. They appeared unannounced at the 1980 Grammy awards ceremony, where they performed the song to a surprised and rapturous audience.\n\nHis last 1970s album was \"September Morn\", which included a new version of \"I'm a Believer\". It and \"Red Red Wine\" are his best-known original songs made more famous by other artists. In February 1979, the uptempo \"Forever in Blue Jeans\", co-written and jointly composed with his guitarist, Richard Bennett, was released as a single from \"You Don't Bring Me Flowers\", Diamond's album from the previous year.\n\nIn 1979, Diamond collapsed on stage in San Francisco and was taken to the hospital, where he endured a 12-hour operation to remove what turned out to be a tumor on his spine.<ref name=\"juke/ref\">\"Juke Magazine\", June 9, 1983.</ref> He said he had been losing feeling in his right leg \"for a number of years but ignored it.\" When he collapsed, he had no strength in either leg. He underwent a long rehabilitation process just before starting principal photography on his film \"The Jazz Singer\" (1980). He was so convinced he was going to die that he wrote farewell letters to his friends.\n\nA planned film version of \"You Don't Bring Me Flowers\" to star Diamond and Streisand fell through when Diamond instead starred in a 1980 remake of the Al Jolson classic \"The Jazz Singer\" alongside Laurence Olivier and Lucie Arnaz. Though the movie received poor reviews, the soundtrack spawned three Top 10 singles, \"Love on the Rocks\", \"Hello Again\", and \"America\", the last of which had emotional significance for Diamond. \"'America' was the story of my grandparents,\" he told an interviewer. \"It's my gift to them, and it's very real for me ... In a way, it speaks to the immigrant in all of us.\" The song was performed in full by Diamond during the film's finale. An abbreviated version played over the film's opening titles.\n\nThe song was also the one he was most proud of, partly because of when it was later used: national news shows played it when the hostages were shown returning home after the Iran hostage crisis ended; it was played on the air during the 100th anniversary of the Statue of Liberty; and at the tribute to Martin Luther King and the Vietnam Vets Welcome Home concert, he was asked to perform it live. At the time, a national poll found the song to be the number-one most recognized song about America, more than \"God Bless America\". It also became the anthem of his world tour two weeks after the attacks on America on September 11, 2001, when he changed the lyric at the end from; \"They're coming to America\", to \"Stand up for America!\" Earlier that year he performed it after a request from former heavyweight champion Muhammad Ali.\n\nThe film's failure was due in part to Diamond never having acted professionally before. \"I didn't think I could handle it,\" he said later, seeing himself as \"a fish out of water.\" For his performance, Diamond became the first-ever winner of a Worst Actor Razzie Award, even though he was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for the same role. Critic David Wild noted that the film showed that Diamond was open about his religion: \"Who else but this Jewish Elvis could go multi-platinum with an album that featured a version of 'the Kol Nidre?'\" Diamond later told the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"For me, this was the ultimate bar mitzvah.\"\n\nAnother Top 10 selection, \"Heartlight\", was inspired by the blockbuster 1982 movie \"E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial\". Though the film's title character is never mentioned in the lyrics, Universal Pictures, which had released \"E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial\" and was the parent company of the Uni Records label, by then called MCA Records, for which Diamond had recorded for years, briefly threatened legal action against both Diamond and Columbia Records.\n\nDiamond's record sales slumped somewhat in the 1980s and 1990s, his last single to make the Billboard's Pop Singles chart coming in 1986, but his concert tours continued to be big draws. \"Billboard\" magazine ranked Diamond as the most profitable solo performer of 1986. He released his 17th studio album in 1986, \"Headed for the Future\", which reached number 20 on the \"Billboard 200\". Three weeks later he starred in \"Hello Again\", his first television special in nine years, performing comedy sketches and a duo medley with Carol Burnett.\n\nIn January 1987, Diamond sang the national anthem at the Super Bowl. His \"America\" became the theme song for the Michael Dukakis 1988 presidential campaign. That same year, UB40's reggae interpretation of Diamond's ballad \"Red Red Wine\" topped the Billboard Pop Singles chart and, like the Monkees' version of \"I'm a Believer\", became better known than Diamond's original version.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Diamond produced six studio albums. He covered many classic songs from the movies and from famous Brill Building-era songwriters. He also released two Christmas albums, the first of which peaked at No. 8 on Billboard's Album chart. Diamond also recorded two albums of mostly new material during this period. In 1992, he performed for President George H.W. Bush's final \"Christmas in Washington\" NBC special. In 1993, Diamond opened the Mark of the Quad Cities (now the iWireless Center) with two shows on May 27 and 28 to a crowd of 27,000-plus.\n\nThe 1990s saw a resurgence in Diamond's popularity. \"Sweet Caroline\" became a popular sing-along at sporting events. It was used at Boston College football and basketball games. College sporting events in other states also played it, and it was even played at sports events in other countries, such as a Hong Kong Sevens rugby tournament or a soccer match in Northern Ireland. It became the theme song of Red Sox Nation, the fans of the Boston Red Sox. The song also came to be played during the 8th inning of every New York Mets home game.\n\nThe New York Rangers also adapted it as their own, and played it whenever they were winning at the end of the 3rd period of their games. The Pitt Panthers football team also played it after the third quarter of all home games, with the crowd cheering, \"Let's go Pitt\". The Carolina Panthers played it at the end of every home game they won. The Davidson College pep band likewise played it at every Davidson Wildcats men's basketball home game, in the second half.\n\nA more severely stripped-down-to-basics album, \"12 Songs\", produced by Rick Rubin, was released on November 8, 2005, in two editions: a standard 12-song release, and a special edition with two bonus tracks, including one featuring backing vocals by Brian Wilson. The album debuted at No. 4 on the Billboard chart, and received generally positive reviews; Earliwine describes the album as \"inarguably Neil Diamond's best set of songs in a long, long time.\" \"12 Songs\" also became noteworthy as one of the last albums to be pressed and released by Sony BMG with the Extended Copy Protection software embedded in the disc. (See the 2005 Sony BMG CD copy protection scandal.)\n\nIn 2007, Diamond was inducted into the Long Island Music Hall of Fame.\n\nOn March 19, 2008, it was announced on the television show \"American Idol\" that Diamond would be a guest mentor to the remaining \"Idol\" contestants, who would sing Diamond songs for the broadcasts of April 29 and 30, 2008. On the April 30 broadcast, Diamond premiered a new song, \"Pretty Amazing Grace\", from his then recently released album \"Home Before Dark\". On May 2, 2008, Sirius Satellite Radio started Neil Diamond Radio. On April 8, 2008, Diamond made a surprise announcement in a big-screen broadcast at Fenway Park that he would be appearing there \"live in concert\" on August 23, 2008, as part of his world tour. The announcement, which marked the first official confirmation of any 2008 concert dates in the US, came during the traditional eighth-inning singalong of \"Sweet Caroline\", which had by that time become an anthem for Boston fans.\n\nOn April 28, 2008, Diamond appeared on the roof of the Jimmy Kimmel building to sing \"Sweet Caroline\" after Kimmel was jokingly arrested for singing the song dressed as a Diamond impersonator.\n\"Home Before Dark\" was released May 6, 2008, and topped the album charts in New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States.\n\nOn June 29, 2008, Diamond played to an estimated 108,000 fans at the Glastonbury Festival in Somerset, England on the Concert of a Lifetime Tour; technical problems marred the concert.\nIn August, Diamond allowed cameras to record his entire four-night run at New York's Madison Square Garden; he released the resulting DVD in the U.S. in 2009, one year to the day of the first concert. \"\" debuted at No. 2 on the charts. On the same day the DVD was released, CBS aired an edited version, which won the ratings hour with 13 million viewers. The next day, the sales of the DVD surged, prompting Sony to order more copies to meet the high demand.\n\nOn August 25, 2008, Diamond performed at Ohio State University while suffering from laryngitis. The result disappointed him as well as his fans, and on August 26, he offered refunds to anyone who applied by September 5.\n\nDiamond was honored as the MusiCares Person of the Year on February 6, 2009, two nights before the 51st Annual Grammy Awards.\n\nLong loved in Boston, Diamond was invited to sing at the July 4, 2009 Independence Day celebration.\n\nOn October 13, 2009, he released \"A Cherry Cherry Christmas\", his third album of holiday music.\n\nOn November 2, 2010, Diamond released the album \"Dreams\", a collection of 14 interpretations of his favorite songs by artists from the rock era. The album also included a new slow-tempo arrangement of his \"I'm a Believer\". In December, he performed a track from the album, \"Ain't No Sunshine\", on NBC's \"The Sing-Off\" with Committed and Street Corner Symphony, two a cappella groups featured on the show. \"The Very Best of Neil Diamond\", a compilation CD of Diamond's 23 studio recordings from the Bang, UNI/MCA, & Columbia catalogs, was released on December 6, 2011, on the Sony Legacy label.\n\nThe years 2011 and 2012 were marked by several milestones in Diamond's career. On March 14, 2011, he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame at a ceremony at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City. In December, he received a lifetime achievement award from the Kennedy Center at the 2011 Kennedy Center Honors. On August 10, 2012, Diamond received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. In November 2012, he topped the bill at the centenary edition of the Royal Variety Performance in the UK, which was transmitted on December 3. He also appeared in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade.\n\nOn April 20, 2013, Diamond made an unannounced appearance at Fenway Park to sing \"Sweet Caroline\" during the 8th inning. It was the first game at Fenway since the bombings at the Boston Marathon. On July 2, he released the single \"Freedom Song (They'll Never Take Us Down)\", with 100% of the purchase price benefiting One Fund Boston and the Wounded Warrior Project. \nSporting a beard, Diamond performed live on the west lawn of the U.S. Capitol as part of \"A Capitol Fourth\", which was broadcast nationally by PBS on July 4, 2013.\n\nIn January 2014, it was confirmed that Diamond had signed with the Capitol Music Group unit of Universal Music Group, which also owned Diamond's Uni/MCA catalog. UMG also took over Diamond's Columbia and Bang catalogues, which meant that all of his recorded output would be consolidated for the first time.\n\nOn July 8, 2014, Capitol Records announced, via a flyer included with Diamond's latest greatest hits compilations, \"All-Time Greatest Hits\", which charted at 15 in the \"Billboard\" 200, that his next album, \"Melody Road\", which was to be produced by Don Was and Jacknife Lee, would be released on September 30, 2014. In August, the release date was moved to October 21.\n\nIn September 2014, Diamond performed a surprise concert at his alma mater, Erasmus High School in Brooklyn. The show was announced via Twitter that afternoon. On the same day, he announced a 2015 \"Melody Road\" World Tour. The North American leg of the World Tour 2015 launched with a concert in Allentown, PA at the PPL Center on February 27 and ended at the Pepsi Center in Denver, Colorado on May 31, 2015. Diamond used new media platforms and social media extensively throughout the tour, streaming several shows live on Periscope and showing tweets from fans who used the hashtag #tweetcaroline on two large screens. \"The San Diego Union-Tribune\" wrote: \"This, my friends, wasn’t your grandfather's Neil Diamond concert. It was a multimedia extravaganza. Twitter. Periscope...It was a social media blitzkrieg that, by all accounts, proved to be an innovative way to widen his fan base.\"\n\nIn October 2016, Diamond released \"Acoustic Christmas,\" a folk-inspired Christmas album of original songs as well as acoustic versions of holiday classics. Produced by Was and Lee, who had produced \"Melody Road\", the idea for the album began to take shape as the \"Melody Road\" sessions ended. To \"channel the intimate atmosphere of '60s folk, Diamond recorded \"Acoustic Christmas\" with a handful of musicians, sitting around a circle of microphones, wires and, of course, Christmas lights.\"\n\nIn March 2017, the career-spanning anthology \"Neil Diamond 50 - 50th Anniversary Collection\" was released. He began the 50 Year Anniversary World Tour in Fresno, California, in April.\n\nIn January 2018, Diamond announced that he would immediately retire from touring due to having been diagnosed with Parkinson's disease. Tour dates on the final leg of Diamond's \"50 Year Anniversary World Tour\" in Australia and New Zealand were cancelled. An announcement on his official website said he was not retiring from music and that the cancellation of the live performances would allow him to \"continue his writing, recording and development of new projects.\"\n\nOn July 28, 2018, Diamond and his wife Katie McNeil made a surprise visit to the Incident Command post in Basalt, Colorado – near where Diamond lives – to thank the firefighters and families with a solo acoustic guitar concert for efforts in containing the Lake Christine Fire, which began on July 3 and had scorched of land.\n\nIn the 2001 comedy film \"Saving Silverman\", the main characters play in a Diamond cover band, and Diamond made an extended cameo appearance as himself. Diamond even wrote and composed a new song, \"I Believe in Happy Endings\", for the film. During this period, comedian/actor Will Ferrell did a recurring Diamond impersonation on \"Saturday Night Live\", with Diamond himself appearing alongside Ferrell on Ferrell's final show in May 2002.\n\nIn 2008, Diamond gave filmmaker Greg Kohs permission to use his songs in a documentary. Kohs, a director from Philadelphia, had met a popular Milwaukee, Wisconsin, duo, Lightning & Thunder, composed of Mike Sardina, who did a Diamond impersonation, and his wife Claire. Kohs followed them for eight years and produced the film \"Song Sung Blue\", but he needed permission to use Diamond's songs. The movie was sent to the singer in January 2008 at the recommendation of Eddie Vedder, a supporter of the film and of the duo. Though Sardina had died in 2006, Diamond invited his widow and her family to be his front-row guests at his show in Milwaukee, where he told them he was moved by the film. In the CBS show, The Big Bang Theory, main characters Howard Wolowitz and Amy Farrah-Folwer are fans of Diamond's work.\n\nDiamond has been married three times. In 1963, he married his high-school sweetheart, schoolteacher Jaye Posner. They had two daughters, Marjorie and Elyn. They separated in 1967 and divorced in 1969.\n\nOn 5 December 1969, Diamond married production assistant Marcia Murphey. They had two sons, Jesse and Micah. The marriage lasted 25 years, ending in 1994 or 1995 (sources differ).\n\nIn 1996, Diamond began a lengthy, live-in relationship with Australian Rae Farley after the two met in Brisbane, Australia. The songs on \"Home Before Dark\" were written and composed during her struggle with chronic back pain. On September 7, 2011, in a message on Twitter, the 70-year-old Diamond announced his engagement to the 41-year-old Katie McNeil. Diamond said that his 2014 album \"Melody Road\" was fueled by their relationship, explaining: \"There's no better inspiration or motivation for work than being in love. It's what you dream of as a creative person. I was able to complete this album – start it, write it and complete it – under the spell of love, and I think it shows somehow.\"<ref name=\"BB/Melody Road\"></ref> The couple married in front of family and close friends in Los Angeles in 2012. In addition to serving as Diamond's manager, McNeil produced the documentary \"Neil Diamond: Hot August Nights NYC\".\n\n"}
{"id": "17588562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17588562", "title": "Nie Yuanzi", "text": "Nie Yuanzi\n\nNie Yuanzi (; born 5 April 1921) is a Chinese academic who taught philosophy at Peking University. She is primarily known for writing a big-character poster criticising the university for being controlled by the bourgeoisie, which has been credited with launching the Cultural Revolution.\n\nNie joined the Communist Party of China in 1938 as a middle school student.\n\nNie's big-character poster was put up on 25 May 1966. In it, she criticised Song Shuo, deputy director of the Beijing Municipal University Bureau, Lu Ping, the President of Peking University and head of its Communist Party committee, and Peng Peiyun, an official in the Beijing Municipal University Bureau. Although Nie's main criticism was the control of Peking University by the bourgeoisie, the aim of the campaign was to legitimise the purge of the Beijing municipal party chief Peng Zhen, by exposing his crime of supporting a bourgeoise reactionary education line. This was pushed by members of the radical clique surround Mao Zedong, including Kang Sheng and Cao Yi'ou. This inspired students at other universities to write posters, most of which expressed support for the \"revolutionary action\" of Nie Yuanzi.\n\nWhen she published the poster, Nie was one of Peking University's top 30 officials on the Party committee. She was married to an official in the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and, along with her husband, Nie often socialised with ministerial-level officials.\n\nNie initially supported the persecution of other academics, but later disagreed on the course the Cultural Revolution was taking and tried to quit her position in the Red Guards. She controlled revolutionary activities at Peking University, along with her colleagues, protected by her status as a celebrated rebel.\n\nNie was made an alternate member of the 9th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China. In December 1969, she was sent to labour at a farm owned by Peking University in Liyuzhou (), Jiangxi. She returned to Beijing in 1970 to recuperate from illness.\n\nIn 1971, Nie was subjected to examination and her movements were restricted. In 1973, she was sent to work in the Xinhua Printing House, where she lived, ate and slept in the factory. She moved to a factory that made apparatuses for Peking University in 1975. On 19 April 1978, Nie was sent to Yanqing Prison.\n\nNie is critical of the post-Mao Chinese regime and has expressed a desire for greater freedom of opinion.\n\nIn 2005, Nie's memoirs were published.\n\nIn Ji Xianlin's memoir Cowshed: Memories of the Chinese Cultural Revolution, Xianlin speaks of her capriciousness, cruelty and remarkable arrogance.\n\n"}
{"id": "49977465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49977465", "title": "Piet Hein Hoebens", "text": "Piet Hein Hoebens\n\nPiet Hein Hoebens (29 September 1948, Utrecht - 22 October 1984) was a Dutch journalist, parapsychologist and skeptic. \n\nHoebens is most well known for debunking the claims of psychic detectives. He worked as a Dutch journalist and investigated claims of paranormal phenomena. He was a staff member for the newspaper \"De Telegraaf\" for 13 years and a member of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry. \n\nHe was an associate of Marcello Truzzi and contributed to the \"Zetetic Scholar\" regarding the claims of psychics such as Peter Hurkos and Gerard Croiset which he found to be bogus.\n\nHoebens took his own life in October 1984.\n\n"}
{"id": "791668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=791668", "title": "Rene Gagnon", "text": "Rene Gagnon\n\nRené Arthur Gagnon (March 7, 1925 – October 12, 1979) was a United States Marine Corps corporal who participated in the Battle of Iwo Jima during World War II. He is best known for being one of the six flag-raisers who helped raise the second U.S. flag atop Mount Suribachi on February 23, 1945 as shown in the iconic photograph \"Raising the Flag on Iwo Jima\".\n\nThe Marine Corps War Memorial located in Arlington, Virginia, which was modeled after the flag-raising photograph, depicts bronze statues of each of the six Marine flag-raisers.\n\nGagnon was born March 7, 1925 in Manchester, New Hampshire, the only child of French Canadian immigrants from Disraeli, Quebec, Henri Gagnon and Irène Marcotte. He grew up without a father. His parents separated when he was an infant, though they never divorced. When he was old enough, he worked alongside his mother at a local shoe factory. He also worked as a bicycle messenger boy for the local Western Union.\n\nGagnon was drafted in 1943, and elected to join the United States Marine Corps Reserve on May 6. He was sent to the Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island, South Carolina. On July 16, he was promoted to private first class. He was transferred to the Marine Guard Company at Charleston Navy Yard in South Carolina and remained there for eight months. He then joined the Military Police Company of the 5th Marine Division at Camp Pendleton, California. On April 8, 1944, he was transferred to the 2nd Battalion, 28th Marine Regiment, 5th Marine Division. In September, the 5th division left Camp Pendleton for further training at Camp Tarawa, Hawaii, for the assault on Iwo Jima by three Marine divisions of the V Amphibious Corps (code named \"Operation Detachment\").\n\nOn February 19, 1945, Gagnon landed on the southeast side of Iwo Jima with E Company, 2nd Battalion, 28th Marines on \"Green Beach 1\", which was the closest landing beach to Mount Suribachi on the southern end of the island. On February 23, Gagnon, a battalion runner (messenger) for Easy Company, participated in what was most likely the most celebrated American flag raising in U.S. history.\n\nOn the morning of February 23, a 40-man combat patrol (mostly from Third Platoon, Easy Company) was sent to climb up Mount Suribach and siege and occupy the crest. First Lieutenant Harold Schrier, E Company's executive officer, who volunteered to lead the patrol, was to raise an American flag on top to signal that the mountaintop was captured. Once Schrier and his men were on top they attached the flag to a Japanese iron water pipe. Then Lt. Schrier, Platoon Sgt. Ernest Thomas, and Sgt. Henry Hansen raised the flag, planting the flagstaff into the ground. Seeing the raising of the national colors immediately caused loud cheers from the Marines, sailors, and Coast Guardsmen on the south end beaches of Iwo Jima and from the men on the ships near the beach.\nSome two hours after the first flag was raised on Mount Suribachi, the Marines decided that a larger flag should be flown on Mount Suribachi in order for the American flag to be seen more easily from the ships, beaches, and land off and around the north side of Mount Suribachi where most of the Japanese soldiers were located and heavy fighting would occur in the days ahead. Sgt. Michael Strank a squad leader of Second Platoon, E Company, was ordered to take three Marines from his squad up Mount Suribachi to raise the replacement flag. He selected Cpl. Harlon Block, Pfc. Ira Hayes, and Pfc. Franklin Sousley. Gagnon, a Second Battalion, 28th Marines runner (messenger) for E Company, was ordered to take the replacement flag up the mountain and return with the first flag that was flying on top.\n\nOnce Gagnon and the four Marines were on top, a Japanese pipe was found by Hayes and Sousley and taken near the first flag position, After the replacement flag was attached to it, Lt. Schrier ordered the replacement flag to be raised and the first flag lowered at the same time. Sgt. Strank, Cpl. Block, Pfc. Hayes, Pfc. Sousley, Pfc. Gagnon, and Pfc. Harold Schultz raised the replacement flag (Navy corpsman John Bradley was incorrectly identified as a flag-raisers until June 23, 2016). In order to keep the flagstaff in a vertical position, rocks were added around the base and a rope was tied to it and staked down in three spots. Associated Press combat photographer Joe Rosenthal took a black and white photograph of this flag raising which became world-famous. The flag raising was also filmed in color by Sgt. Bill Genaust who was killed in action a few days later.\nOn March 14, 1945, a third American flag was officially raised by two Marines at Kitano Point at the northern end of the island. The flag that Gagnon helped raise in the two unofficial flag-raisings on February 23, was lowered and taken to Marine headquarters. On March 27, Gagnon and the 2nd Battalion, 28th Marines left Iwo Jima and both flags that were flown on Mount Suribachi were taken to Marine Headquarters in Washington, D.C. after the 2nd Battalion, 28th Marines returned to Hawaii.\n\nIn 1991, former Marine Lt. George Greeley Wells, who was the 2nd battalion, 28th Marines, adjutant in charge of carrying the American flag(s) for the battalion, stated in \"The New York Times\" that he was ordered by the battalion commander on February 23, 1945 to get a large replacement flag for the top of Mount Suribachi, and that he (Wells) ordered Gagnon, his E Company runner, to get a flag from a ship on shore — possibly the . Wells stated that this flag was the one taken up Mount Suribachi by Gagnon to be given to Lt. Schrier of Company E, with a message for Schrier to raise this flag and return the other smaller flag raised earlier on Mount Suribachi back to Gagnon. Wells also stated, that he had handed the first flag to Schrier that Schrier took up Mount Suribachi, and when this flag was returned to him by Gagnon, he secured the flag until it was delivered to Marine Headquarters after the 2nd battalion returned to Hawaii from Iwo Jima.\n\nOn March 27, 1945, when Gagnon and the 28th Marines left Iwo Jima for Hawaii, Gagnon was aboard the transport , On March 30, President Franklin Roosevelt ordered the six flag raisers in Rosenthal's flag raising photo to be sent to Washington, D.C.. Gagnon was the first to be identified, and as one of the three surviving flag raisers in the photo on April 7, followed by PhM2c. Bradley and Pfc. Hayes (Sgt. Strank, Cpl. Block, and Pfc. Franklin Soulsey were killed in action; Block was mistaken to be Sgt. Henry Hansen until a Marine investigation in 1946 revealed in 1947 it was Block). Once in Washington, D.C., the three were assigned to temporary duty with the Finance Division, United States Department of the Treasury, for appearances and participation in connection with the Seventh War Loan drive (bond selling tour) from May 11 through July 4 (Hayes left the bond tour on May 25 for E Company in Hawaii). The tour was kicked off with a flag raising at the Nation's capitol on May 9 and went through 33 U.S cities raising billions of desperately needed dollars to help boost morale and win the war. The three flag-raisers had the flag they had raised on Mount Suribachi with them during the bond tour.\n\nIn July 1945, Gagnon was ordered to San Diego for further transfer overseas. He married Pauline Georgette Harnois, of Hooksett, New Hampshire, in Baltimore, Maryland, on July 7, 1945.\nBy September, he was on his way overseas again, this time with the 80th Replacement Draft. On November 7, 1945, he arrived at Tsingtao, China, where he joined E Company, 2nd Battalion, 29th Marines, 6th Marine Division. He later served with the 3rd Battalion, 29th Marines. In March 1946, he had been on duty with the U.S. occupation forces in China for about five months before he boarded a ship at Tsingtao at the end of the month for San Diego. Gagnon arrived in San Diego on April 20, 1946. He was promoted to Corporal and was honorably discharged at Camp Pendleton, California, on April 27, 1946.\n\nThe Marine Corps War Memorial (also known as the Iwo Jima Memorial) in Arlington, Virginia which was inspired by Rosenthal's photograph of the second flag-raising on Mount Suribachi was dedicated on November 10, 1954. Gagnon is depicted as the second bronze statue from the bottom of the flagstaff with the 32 foot (9.8 M) bronze statues of the other five flag-raisers on the monument (as of June 23, 2016, Franklin Sousley and Harold Schultz are depicted as the third and fifth bronze statues from the bottom of the flagstaff).\n\nPresident Dwight D. Eisenhower sat upfront with Vice President Richard Nixon, Deputy Secretary of Defense Robert Anderson, and General Lemuel C. Shepherd, the 20th Commandant of the Marine Corps, during the dedication ceremony. Two of the three surviving flag-raisers depicted on the monument, Ira Hayes and Gagnon, were seated together with John Bradley (he was incorrectly identified as a surviving flag-raiser) in the front rows of seats along with relatives of those who were killed in action on the island. Speeches were given by Richard Nixon, Robert Anderson who dedicated the memorial, and General Shepherd who presented the memorial to the American people. Inscribed on the memorial are the following words:\n\nOn February 19, 1965, while working as an airline sales representative for Delta Air Lines, Gagnon visited Mount Suribachi after visiting Tokyo with his wife and son.\n\nRené Gagnon, Jr. commented in 2014 that his father René Gagnon, Sr. opened a travel agency and did accounting work and was not a bitter alcoholic, and in his last job, he had worked as head of maintenance at an apartment complex in Manchester where he suffered a heart attack in the boiler room. According to the book \"Flags of Our Fathers\" (2000), in his latter years Gagnon only participated in events that were at his wife's urging, events praising the U.S. flag raising on Iwo Jima. She enjoyed the limelight, whereas he, by that time, no longer did. \nGagnon appeared in two films about the battle of Iwo Jima: \"To the Shores of Iwo Jima\" (a government documentary which simply showed the color footage of the U.S. flag raising) and \"Sands of Iwo Jima\" (1949). He was also part of a Rose Bowl half-time show.\n\nGagnon died on October 12, 1979, at age 54, in Manchester, New Hampshire. He resided in nearby Hooksett, and was survived by wife Pauline Gagnon and son René Gagnon, Jr. at Mount Calvary Cemetery in Manchester. At the request of his widow, a government waiver was granted on April 16, 1981, and his remains were re-interred in Section 51, Grave 543 of Arlington National Cemetery on July 7. Inscribed on the back of his Arlington headstone are the words:\n\nGagnon's military awards include:\n\n\nThe Marine Corps Good Conduct Medal required 4 years service during World War II.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51876488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51876488", "title": "Rico Harris", "text": "Rico Harris\n\nRico Omarr Harris (born May 19, 1977; disappeared October 10, 2014) is an American former professional basketball player. A high school standout in his native Southern California, he later led Los Angeles City College (LACC) to its first state junior college title in 1997. After his college career, he played for some International Basketball League teams, and later with the Harlem Globetrotters.\n\nThe oldest of four children born to a former Idaho State star and his young wife, he had given up basketball before returning to it for his last two years at Temple City High School. He soon became a star player himself as well as a top college prospect, likened by those who saw him play to Lamar Odom. He had the opportunity to play for several NCAA Division I basketball programs, but never did due to a combination of academic and personal difficulties. He then chose to attend Cal-State Northridge despite interest from much higher-profile colleges and the NBA, a decision for which he was sharply criticized since it was seen as limiting his chances of reaching the NBA.\n\nHarris ended his season at Northridge after being suspended twice for violations of team rules. He eventually made his way to the Globetrotters, but injuries from a 2000 assault forced him to quit after one month. After leaving basketball, the alcoholism that had begun to manifest itself during his college career intensified, and Harris became addicted to illegal drugs as well. He was arrested many times before he was able to recover from his addictions in 2007.\n\nBy October 2014, Harris had relocated to Seattle with a longtime girlfriend and had applied for a job there. He never arrived there from a trip from his mother's home in Alhambra to complete the move; he was last heard from when he left a message for his girlfriend. The call was traced to the Sacramento area, and his abandoned car was found in a Yolo County park several days later. There were some possible sightings up to a week afterwards, but none have been confirmed beyond a cell phone video the night of his disappearance, and extensive searches since have failed to find any trace of him in the area. His disappearance has been featured on an episode of the Investigation Discovery series \"Disappeared\".\n\nHarris was the first son born to Henry Harris, a former star forward for Idaho State who, after his college years in the mid-1970s, was playing in a semiprofessional league in Los Angeles when he met Margaret Fernandez, then 17. She gave birth to Rico, the first of the couple's four children, in 1977. Afterwards they moved to Oregon, where Henry had been offered a job.\n\nHenry Harris was for most of the time a loving husband, but occasionally he would turn violent and abusive. They moved back to the Los Angeles area shortly afterwards, and had three more children. Henry would often verbally and physically abuse his children, especially Rico. Despite that, Rico deeply craved his father's affection and approval into his adulthood.\n\nMargaret eventually left her husband, taking the children with her as she moved to Alhambra, the suburb where she had grown up. Rico often held the family together while Margaret worked full-time. Although she later said she felt her oldest son was \"born to play basketball\", by the age of 15 he had given it up despite his size, and was considering becoming an actor. To that end, he and a friend attended Hollywood High School, a long trip from their homes.\n\nAfter a year, Rico changed his mind about basketball and returned to the court. Despite the minimal contact he had had with his father since his parents' divorce, he used his father's Temple City address to enroll in high school there for his junior year.\n\nFor most of his teens and 20s, Harris was praised for his NBA-level potential. The pinnacle of his playing career, however, would be the 1996–97 season, when he was the MVP of the state community college tournament and led his team to the state championship. He only played one season for a Division I team, however, and despite considerable interest from NBA teams never came close to signing with them.\n\nRico, then and , was an immediate sensation on the basketball court. His presence on the team transformed the previously undistinguished Temple City program into a contender, and drew college scouts. \"Other teams would double- and triple-team him,\" recalled one of his coaches. \"But you could just watch him for a couple plays and you could see the player he could be.\" Harris had been a fan of the 1980s Los Angeles Lakers teams, and in particular emulated Magic Johnson's style of play.\n\nOff the court, Rico was initially shy and a poor student. However, after meeting a girlfriend whose academically inclined family helped him with his studying, he improved both socially and academically, achieving a 3.0 grade point average. On the court at that time, he became an even more dominant player, averaging 28 points and 15 rebounds a game during his senior season. The Long Beach \"Press-Telegram\" recognized him as one of the best high school players in the Western United States during the 1994–95 season, along with Chauncey Billups, Paul Pierce and Jason Terry, all of whom went on to long careers in the NBA.\n\nJim Harrick, who had just left the head-coaching position at UCLA to take over the University of Rhode Island program, had his eye on Harris, who he had recruited at his former position. He believed Rico could be part of a powerful team at Rhode Island, with Zach Marbury and Lamar Odom, who he was expecting to sign for the next season. However, Harris's newfound academic success did not extend to the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT), where he did not do well. UCLA had to withdraw its scholarship offer as a result.\n\nHarris went to Arizona State under Proposition 48, which limited him to taking classes during his freshman year in order to regain his eligibility. Without his family and friends close by, he struggled academically and socially, as he originally had at Temple City. In March 1996 he was arrested on a charge of unlawful imprisonment along with two teammates after two women said the players had forced them to perform sex acts against their will. The charges were dropped after investigators uncovered inconsistencies in the women's stories, but the university asked Harris to sit out another year nonetheless.\n\nInstead, Harris returned to California and enrolled in Los Angeles City College (LACC), a two-year junior college, in the hope of improving his grades and playing for Harrick at Rhode Island. On the court, Cubs' coach Mike Miller let Harris play the game his way—shooting three-pointers, leading the fast break with no-look passes and faking out other big men under the basket as it suited him. \"He could do it all,\" a teammate recalled in 2014. \"He was Lamar Odom before Lamar Odom.\"\n\nHarris was the team's biggest star, frequently regarded as the best player on the court from either team in every game he played. He averaged 16.5 points and 14 rebounds a game. NBA scouts began attending games, hoping that Harris might consider foregoing his college career entirely once he was old enough to do so.\n\nLACC posted a 30–6 record that season. It culminated in the school's first-ever California Community College Athletic Association state title, secured with an upset win over San Jose City College. Harris was named the championship tournament's most valuable player.\n\nA few weeks after that triumph, early in 1996, Harris signed his letter of intent to attend Rhode Island and play for Harrick there. However, he stopped attending a psychology class he needed to pass midway through the semester, and failed it as a result, leaving him still ineligible under National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) rules to transfer to a four-year college and play there. At the time there was speculation that he had deliberately failed the class to avoid having to relocate to the East Coast, far away from his hometown.\n\nThat speculation notwithstanding, Harris made his first-ever trip east of Chicago later that year to visit UConn, where an assistant coach who had seen him play likened him to Donyell Marshall, a former Huskies' star who had left school early for an NBA career. He told the \"Hartford Courant\" that he had learned from his Arizona State experience. \"This time around, I know exactly what I want,\" he said. In addition to a Division I program, he was still considering declaring for the NBA draft or playing in a professional league overseas. \"I'm in no rush.\"\n\nHarris ultimately returned to LACC for his second season, which he would later say was a mistake. He became less focused, partying heavily with his brother in the apartment they shared near campus, and drinking beer during the day to take the edge off his hangovers. It did not affect his game, however. A teammate recalls Harris showing up for a game once wearing heavy sunglasses to mask the effects of the alcohol. \"He probably didn't get no sleep and [was] up all night—then dropped like 35 [points] that game\".\n\nThe team did not repeat as state champions, and Harris was later described as \"a disruptive influence\" during that season. Miller at one point suspended him for six games; Harris in turn faulted him for not controlling the team adequately. As the only returning player on that team, he explained, many of his teammates would not give him the ball. \"I have no excuses,\" he told the \"Los Angeles Times\". \"I was playing against my own teammates and coaching staff.\"\n\nHarris's drinking increased as the season wore on, leading to social isolation and costing him his relationship with the girlfriend who he had benefited from in high school. Recruiters from other four-year college programs continued to call and write, but Harris did not respond, believing many of them to be interested in him only for his athletic ability and not his personal development. Instead he declared himself for the 1998 NBA draft.\n\nNBA scouts still saw lots of potential in Harris, and invited him to a pre-draft camp in Chicago for the most highly regarded prospects. But as he had the year before, he would not take the opportunity. Shortly before the camp, he not only decided he would not attend but withdrew from the draft, believing that he was not ready for the challenge on a personal level.\n\nThe opportunity to play for Harrick at Rhode Island was still available to Harris, and many friends and observers believed he would take it. In September 1998, he called Bobby Braswell, then the head coach at Cal State Northridge, whom Harris had come to know three years earlier when Braswell had recruited him while an assistant at Oregon. Braswell later recalled that he thought Harris was calling for guidance.\n\nBraswell congratulated Harris on signing with Harrick at Rhode Island. \"That's not happening\", Harris told him. He did not want to move that far away, and believed LACC coach Miller was trying to get him to go there strictly out of his friendship with Harrick and not out of any consideration for Harris's best interests. Instead, he asked if he could he play for Braswell, whom he trusted, at Northridge, closer to his family, where he could transfer his credits from Arizona State and LACC to become eligible immediately.\n\nSince another local high school player that Northridge had offered a scholarship to had lost it after purposely failing a class, there was space for Harris at the small state school, which had not posted a winning record the seven seasons it had been in Division I. Braswell immediately told Harris the opening was his. Harris believed Braswell's reputation for strict discipline was what he needed most to develop as a person and a player.\n\nWith a player of Harris's level, talent rarely seen at a smaller school like Northridge, Braswell hoped he could realize his goals of a winning season, a Big Sky Conference title and a berth in the NCAA tournament. But while there was plenty of potential for Braswell in the relationship, observers saw less for Harris. Miller told him he was severely compromising his chances of signing with an NBA team by playing for such a small school in a less competitive conference, and others who knew him wondered if instead of leading the Matadors to new heights as he had in his first season at LACC, he would instead pose a threat to team unity again.\n\nBraswell was optimistic. \"Rico wants to make the best of this opportunity,\" he said to the \"Times\". But early in the season it seemed as if the doubters had been correct. Harris had attempted to reconcile with his father in the offseason but had been rebuffed. He continued drinking heavily and could no longer fully contain his underlying emotional difficulties; early in the season Braswell suspended him briefly after he argued with other teammates and coaches. A hip pointer also sidelined him for five games.\n\nHe still performed well, averaging 10 points a game and leading the team in rebounds, but the NBA scouts who had been following his career could see that his performance was off from his previous heights, and took him off their lists of prospects. Near the end of the season Braswell suspended Harris again; the player did not attend a meeting with his coach in Braswell's office to mark his reinstatement. Harris would never play college basketball again, and left Northridge shortly after the season's end.\n\nHarris could not play for any other college as his eligibility had expired. He still had not given up on possibly making the NBA, and like his father before him took up semi-professional basketball. He played for short periods of time with the International Basketball League's San Diego Stingrays and St. Louis Storm. Rapper Master P, a former NBA player who had played briefly with the former team, put together a traveling team for which Harris played a few games. During this time, he drank less and worked on his jump shot, hoping the NBA had not completely lost interest in him.\n\nIn spring 2000, Harris opted instead to join the Harlem Globetrotters. His skills were ideal for the Globetrotters' shows, and he seemed to have found his niche. However, a month after he joined the team he was out driving with a girlfriend in South Los Angeles when he got into a dispute with some people there. After he left the car to confront them, someone hit him on the back of the head with a baseball bat.\n\nHarris was able to leave the scene and drove off. But soon he started having intense headaches and had trouble keeping his balance. These aftereffects of the head injury persisted, and he had to leave the Globetrotters. At the age of 24, his basketball career was over.\n\nHarris returned to his mother's house in Alhambra. He had no job prospects, and no plans for what he might do besides play basketball. Soon he returned to drinking. His mother continued to take care of him as well as his younger siblings, all of whom were likewise battling substance abuse to some degree. She hoped Rico would, in her words \"snap out of it\", but his addiction instead broadened to include heroin, methamphetamine and crack.\n\n\"He would sniff Ajax just to feel the burn\", a friend, David Lara, recalled. Throughout the 2000s Harris remained unable to overcome his addictions. He was arrested over a hundred times, most commonly for public intoxication. After a few days in jail, he often resumed drinking. To support his habits he would sometimes beg in the street. \"It was despair, bro. It was down there. It was the darkest of the dark,\" says Lara of the sight.\n\nEfforts to persuade Harris to end his self-destructive path failed. Only in 2007, shortly after he turned 30, did he finally start to change. After an overdose of prescription medicine he had tried, Harris entered a rehabilitation facility operated by the Salvation Army in downtown Los Angeles.\n\nThe program took a long time for Harris to complete, but when he did he seemed to have recovered. He moved in with Wilfredo Mayorga, another graduate of the program, and got a job working security detail in nearby Bell. At a party he met Jennifer Song, a visitor from Seattle who worked as an insurance broker. The two soon became romantically involved, and starting in 2012 they began spending long weekends in the other's city.\n\nBy September 2014 they had begun to talk about getting married, even going so far as to discuss possible names for children. Harris and Mayorga clashed over the relationship; their friendship ended when Harris abruptly moved out of the apartment and left Mayorga with all the unpaid bills. Shortly afterwards, Harris moved in with Song in Seattle, intending to relocate there permanently.\n\nConverting their long-distance relationship to a live-in one caused some friction between Song and Harris as the two began merging their lives. Harris nevertheless continued with his plans to move on with his life in a new city. He exchanged his California driver's license for a Washington-issued one. He was able to arrange a job interview for a position as a property appraiser, a job that would have meant much to him as it would have been the first time he held a skilled position unrelated to his athletic ability.\n\nBefore that, however, he decided he needed to return to Alhambra and visit his mother and brother one more time. Song believes his intent was to talk with them and reach some closure for the difficult events of his childhood. \"I think he realized some things and he wanted to talk to [his mother],\" she later told a reporter. \"He wanted her to trust him and trust us and believe in our relationship.\"\n\nLara spoke with him by phone during his drive to Southern California. He says Rico was upbeat, hoping to marry Song and start a family with her. \"He seemed to have his head together,\" he recalls.\n\nHowever, his visit with his family, on October 9, was brief. He took one of his brothers out to eat and gave him a new cell phone as a gift, then returned to his mother's home to speak with her alone privately. Fernandez does not believe her son got what he was hoping for out of the conversation. Shortly after midnight, he decided to return, taking with him a few more personal belongings. His job interview was scheduled for the next day in Seattle.\n\nLeaving Alhambra, he drove north on Interstate 5. Records show that he stopped in Lodi, south of Sacramento, to get gas. At 10:45 a.m. on October 10, he called Song from north of Sacramento and left a message saying that he was going \"up into the mountains to rest\", since he had not slept much since leaving Seattle. At 11:15 he turned the phone off. No one has heard from Harris or positively identified him since then.\n\nSong called Fernandez when Harris failed to return to Seattle when expected. Recalling that he had once disappeared for a few hours to San Diego, they decided to wait and see if he would return on his own. By October 14, several days after he had missed the job interview, they realized he was not going to do so, or that something had gone wrong, and reported him missing to the Alhambra police.\n\nThat afternoon, a Yolo County deputy sheriff patrolling along a stretch of California State Route 16 along Cache Creek north of Rumsey saw a black Nissan Maxima sedan in a county park's lot for the second straight day. He looked inside and saw CDs, credit cards, and various papers scattered around. The car had not been reported stolen, so his superiors contacted the Alhambra police when they found out who it was registered to, and officers there informed Fernandez that it had been found, but not her son.\n\nA search of the surrounding terrain of Cache Creek Canyon began shortly afterward. Search and rescue teams began looking over the lightly forested terrain surrounding the stream. They were assisted by teams on all-terrain vehicles and helicopters. An airplane with a thermographic camera flew over the area, and search dogs were brought in as well. The area within a five-mile () radius of the parking lot was covered, as well as the of Route 16 through the canyon.\n\nBut after three days, the searchers had found nothing. Many were incredulous. Rico at that time had reached his full adult height of , and weighed , reflecting the less active years since the end of his basketball career. They could not imagine how such a large person could have disappeared so completely.\n\nWhen Harris's description was circulated in the area, a few sightings subsequent to October 10 were reported. One passerby along Route 16 reported seeing a man who fit his description walking along the road at 5:30 on October 11, while another motorist believed he had seen him sitting on a guardrail overlooking the creek near the parking lot.\n\nHarris's car was towed away and searched. It was out of gas and the battery was nearly dead. Investigators found Harris's wallet and all of his credit cards save one, a Discover Card on which no charges have been made since Harris vanished. He had also taken his phone and driver's license. Detectives also found two plastic bottles, one mostly full of some type of hard liquor and the other empty but smelling strongly of the same beverage.\n\nOn October 18, eight days after Harris's last voicemail message, another sighting was reported. A man who had driven past the parking lot where the Nissan had been told police he saw a large man wearing light-colored pants, similar to those Harris had been wearing when he left his mother's house, early that morning. The next day, a trail of fresh foot impressions, left by size 18 sneakers consistent with those Harris wore, were found leading from the parking lot to the creek near where the Nissan had been parked.\n\nInvestigators were also able to find Harris's backpack, left by the side of the road about from the guardrail he was reported to have been sitting on the morning after his last phone call. In it they found his phone and charger and some other items not considered relevant to Harris's whereabouts. The phone contained pictures of the creek and some selfies, including one in which Harris was standing in front of a sign welcoming drivers to Yolo County striking a playful pose. There were also some videos, apparently taken unintentionally, showing Harris singing along to music playing in his car and casually flinging CDs around the passenger compartment. They were timestamped the night of October 10, demonstrating that Harris had been alive and in his car at that time.\n\nOn October 22, the sheriff's office announced it was scaling back the search. Divers were called in to search the nearby sections of the creek in mid-November, but found nothing. The investigation is continuing. In 2016 the Investigation Discovery channel series \"Disappeared\" devoted a segment to the case.\n\nDean Nyland, the detective working the case for the sheriff's office, has ruled out the possibility of foul play in Harris's disappearance. The photos and video on Harris's phone suggest he came to Yolo County voluntarily and alone; no evidence of any kind of struggle was found in or near the car. His backpack and phone also do not show any signs that they were taken forcibly; Nyland believes Harris may have left them where they were found himself, either accidentally or purposely, to avoid being tracked via the phone.\n\nNyland believes Harris may have made a wrong turn after getting gas and followed the road up into the hills of Yolo County. Seeing the parking lot, he may have decided to take a nap before driving further. When Harris woke up later that day, Nyland believes, the unresolved issues from his past came into play and he may have decided not to continue to Seattle just yet. \"To him, this must have seemed like heaven\", he said, showing a reporter the spot on the guardrail overlooking the creek where one driver reported seeing Harris the next morning. In the accidental videos on the phone, he adds, Harris seemed like \"a free man\".\n\nAfter wandering the area for a few days, including those in which he had been sought, he returned to his car and found it gone, Nyland believes. At that point he either walked away into the woods or towards another town. \"We have no sightings, so he probably got a ride\", the detective says.\n\n"}
{"id": "12812946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12812946", "title": "Sir Ralph Gore, 4th Baronet", "text": "Sir Ralph Gore, 4th Baronet\n\nSir Ralph Gore, 4th Baronet (c. 1675 – 23 February 1733) was a Speaker of the Irish House of Commons. He is now chiefly remembered for building Belle Isle Castle.\n\nThe Gore Baronetcy, of Magherabegg in the County of Donegal, was created in the Baronetage of Ireland on 2 February 1622 for Paul Gore (shown also as 1st baronet of Manor Gore, the Anglicized version). Ralph was the eldest son of Sir William Gore, 3rd Baronet and his wife Hannah Hamilton, daughter and co-heiress of James Hamilton of Manorhamilton and niece of Gustavus Hamilton, 1st Viscount Boyne. Ralph inherited the estate of Manorhamilton from his mother.\n\nHe was appointed High Sheriff of Leitrim for 1710.\n\nThe fourth Baronet served as Chancellor of the Irish Exchequer and as Speaker of the Irish House of Commons. He represented Donegal Borough in the Irish House of Commons from 1703 until 1713 and then Donegal County from 1713 until 1727. Subsequently, he sat for Clogher until his death in 1733.\n\nHe married firstly Elizabeth Colville, daughter of Sir Robert Colville of Newtown, County Leitrim, and secondly, Elizabeth Ashe, daughter of St George Ashe, Bishop of Clogher and his wife (and distant cousin) Jane St George, daughter of Sir George St George of Dunmore, County Galway and Elizabeth Hannay. By his first wife he had two daughters. By his second wife he had seven children, including St George Gore-St George, who succeeded to the baronetcy, but died young without issue, and Ralph Gore, 1st Earl of Ross.\n\nHis grandfather had acquired Belle Island in Lough Erne: it was Ralph who built the castle, which was extended and improved by his son, the younger Ralph.\n\nThe present holder of the baronetcy lives in Australia.\n"}
{"id": "58721012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58721012", "title": "Sue Knight", "text": "Sue Knight\n\nSue Knight is an Australian philosopher, educator and academic whose research focuses on teaching reasoning skills and embedding philosophy within school curricula. She is the author of the Primary Ethics curriculum, which has been offered as an alternative to Scripture in New South Wales public schools for students from Kindergarten to Year 6 since 2010.\n\nKnight was awarded a PhD in Philosophy in 1978 from the University of Adelaide with a thesis examining \"the problem of universals, a fundamental problem within Metaphysics\".\n\nIn 1981 she earned a Bachelor of Education from the same university. After becoming interested in the work of Matthew Lipman, Knight undertook an advanced training workshop at the Institute for the Advancement of Philosophy for Children (IAPC) founded by Dr Lipman at Montclair State University, New Jersey, USA. The Philosophy for Children program aims to engage students of all ages (from kindergarten to the senior secondary) in philosophical inquiry.\n\nKnight's career has focused on development of justificatory reasoning skills and embedding philosophy within school curricula across the year levels.\n\nHer career focus has led to her involvement in writing South Australia's Senior Secondary Philosophy curriculum and she served as inaugural Chair of the Senior Secondary Assessment Board of South Australia's Philosophy Subject Advisory Committee.\n\nKnight established and held the inaugural Chair of the South Australian Philosophy in Education Association, which is involved in primary and middle school education.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2009 Knight held the joint editorship of \"Critical and Creative Thinking: The Australasian Journal of Philosophy in Education\" with Carol Collins.\n\nOther contributions Knight has made to the field of philosophy for children include:\n\n\nIn 2010 Knight was chief evaluator of the NSW Ethics Course Trial and published her final report in September 2010. In December 2010 New South Wales Parliament amended the \"New South Wales Education Act\" to give students who do not attend Special Religious Education (Scripture) classes in NSW public schools the legal right to attend philosophical ethics classes as an option to supervised \"private study\".\n\nKnight resigned from the University of South Australia to become lead curriculum author for Primary Ethics Limited, an independent not-for-profit organisation, chosen to create the Ethics program to be delivered as the alternative to Special Religious Education (Scripture) in NSW Public schools. Both the trial and the introduction of ethics classes was not without controversy with objections and support coming from various church, secular, school and parent groups and interest from other states.\n\n"}
{"id": "392554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=392554", "title": "Terry Nichols", "text": "Terry Nichols\n\nTerry Lynn Nichols (born April 1, 1955) is an American domestic terrorist who was convicted of being an accomplice in the Oklahoma City bombing. Prior to his incarceration, he held a variety of short-term jobs, working as a farmer, grain elevator manager, real estate salesman and ranch hand. He met his future co-conspirator, Timothy McVeigh, during a brief stint in the U.S. Army, which ended in 1989 when he requested a hardship discharge after less than one year of service. In 1994 and 1995, he conspired with McVeigh in the planning and preparation of the Oklahoma City bombing – the truck bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, on April 19, 1995. The bombing claimed the lives of 168 people.\n\nAfter a federal trial in 1997, Nichols was convicted of conspiracy to use a weapon of mass destruction and eight counts of involuntary manslaughter for killing federal law enforcement personnel. He was sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole after the jury deadlocked on the death penalty. He was also tried in Oklahoma on state charges of murder in connection with the bombing. He was convicted in 2004 of 161 counts of first degree murder, including one count of fetal homicide; first-degree arson; and conspiracy. As in the federal trial, the state jury deadlocked on imposing the death penalty. He was sentenced to 161 consecutive life terms without the possibility of parole, setting a Guinness World Record, and is incarcerated at ADX Florence, a super maximum security prison near Florence, Colorado. He shares a cell block that is commonly referred to as \"Bombers Row\" with Ramzi Yousef, Eric Rudolph, and Ted Kaczynski.\n\nNichols was born in Lapeer, Michigan. He was raised on a farm, the third of four children of Joyce and Robert Nichols. Growing up, he helped his parents on the farm, learning to operate and maintain the equipment. According to the \"Denver Post\", he also cared for injured birds and animals.\n\nNichols attended Lapeer High School where he took elective classes in crafts and business law. Throughout school, friends characterized him as shy. While in high school he played junior varsity football, wrestled, and was a member of the ski club. His brother James has stated that Terry was good at artwork and book smart. He graduated from high school in 1973 with a 3.6 grade point average, with ambitions of becoming a physician.\n\nHe enrolled at Central Michigan University, but had difficulty adjusting to college life, and dropped out after one term. In 1974, after his brother Leslie was badly burned in a fuel tank explosion on the farm, he offered to give him skin for grafts. He tried farming with his brother James for a while, but they did not get along; he felt his brother was too bossy. Later he moved to Colorado and obtained a license to sell real estate in 1976. Soon after he closed on his first big sale, his mother told him she needed his help on the farm, so he returned to Michigan.\n\nIn 1980, Nichols met real estate agent Lana Walsh, a twice-divorced mother of two who was five years his senior. They married and had a son, Joshua, in 1982. During the marriage, Nichols engaged in a succession of part-time and short-term jobs: carpentry work, managing a grain elevator, and selling life insurance and real estate. According to Lana, she was the one with a career; Nichols was a house husband, who spent most of his time at home with the children cooking and gardening.\n\nNichols had never liked farm life, and in 1988, at the age of 33, he tried to escape it by enlisting in the U.S. Army. He was sent to Fort Benning next to Columbus, Georgia for basic training. As the oldest man in his platoon, he had difficulty with the physical aspect of the training, and was sometimes called \"grandpa\" by the other men. However, he was soon made the platoon guide because of his age. Timothy McVeigh was in his platoon, and they quickly became close friends. They had a common background: Both men grew up in white rural areas and disliked working with blacks. Both had tried college for a while and had parents who were divorced. They shared political views and interests in gun collecting and the survivalist movement. The two were later stationed together at Fort Riley in Junction City, Kansas, where they met and became friends with their future accomplice, Michael Fortier.\n\nNichols's wife filed for divorce soon after he joined the Army. Due to a conflict over childcare, he requested and was given a hardship discharge in May 1989 to return home to take care of his son, who was seven years old at the time. As he departed, he told a fellow soldier that he would be starting his own military organization soon, and would have an unlimited supply of weapons.\n\nIn 1990, Nichols married a 17-year-old girl, Marife Torres, from the Philippines whom he met through a mail-order bride agency. When she arrived in Michigan several months later, she was pregnant with another man's child. The child died at age two when he suffocated in a plastic bag while Nichols was babysitting him. Marife suspected foul play, but there were no bruises or signs of trauma to the child. The death was ruled accidental. Nichols and Marife had two more children during their marriage. Nichols and Torres frequently visited the Philippines, where she was working on a degree in physical therapy. He sometimes traveled to the Philippines alone, while she remained in Kansas.\n\nNichols left a cryptic note and a package of documents with his ex-wife, Lana (Walsh) Padilla, prior to one of his many visits to the Philippines. Upon returning from the visit to learn that she had prematurely opened a letter instructing her what to do in the event of his death, he made a series of telephone calls to a Cebu City boarding house. \nNichols and Torres divorced after his arrest. Marife returned to the Philippines with the children.\n\nNichols' anti-government views developed and grew over the years. Nichols spent most of his adult life in the Lapeer and Sanilac County areas of Michigan where mistrust and resentment of the federal government was common, especially after bank repossessions of many farms in the 1980s. Neighbors said he attended meetings of anti-government groups, experimented with explosives and got more radical as time went on. In February 1992, he attempted to renounce his US citizenship by writing to the local county clerk in Michigan, stating that the political system was corrupt, and declaring himself a \"non resident alien\". Several months later, he appeared in court and tried to avoid responsibility for some of his credit card bills (he owed approximately $40,000 altogether), refusing to come before the bench, and shouting at the judge that the government had no jurisdiction over him. On October 19, 1992, he signed another document renouncing his US citizenship. In May 1993, Nichols appeared before a county judge regarding an $8,421 unpaid credit card debt. He also renounced his driver’s license.\n\nMcVeigh and Nichols grew closer after McVeigh's discharge from the Army. In December 1991, Nichols invited McVeigh to join him in Michigan and help him out selling military surplus at gun shows. For the next three years, McVeigh stayed with Nichols off and on. On April 19, 1993, Nichols was watching TV with McVeigh at the Nichols' farmhouse in Michigan when the ATF, Army and FBI attacked the Branch Davidian compound in Waco, Texas. When the compound went up in flames, McVeigh and Nichols were enraged and began to plot revenge on the federal government. In the fall of 1993, Nichols and McVeigh, who were living at the farm, became business partners, selling weapons and military surplus at gun shows. For a while, they lived an itinerant life, following the gun shows from town to town.\n\nNichols then went to Las Vegas to try working in construction but failed. Next, he went to central Kansas and was hired in March 1994 as a ranch hand in Marion, Kansas. In March 1994, he sent a letter to the clerk of Marion County, Kansas, saying he was not subject to the laws of the U.S. government and asked his employer not to withhold any federal taxes from his check. His employer said Nichols was hard-working but had unusual political views. In the fall of 1994, Nichols quit his job, telling his employer he was going into business with McVeigh.\n\nOn September 22, 1994, Terry Nichols and McVeigh rented a storage shed and began gathering supplies for the truck bomb. In late September or early October, Nichols and McVeigh stole dynamite and blasting caps from a nearby quarry. Nichols began purchasing large quantities of ammonium nitrate fertilizer and storing it in three rental storage units. Nichols also robbed an Arkansas gun dealer who had befriended him and McVeigh at various gun shows.\n\nIn February 1995 Nichols bought a small house in Herington, Kansas, with a cash down payment. In March 1995, he bought diesel fuel. On April 14, Nichols gave McVeigh some cash, according to McVeigh. On April 16, Easter Sunday, Nichols and McVeigh drove to Oklahoma City to drop off the getaway car. On April 18, the day before the bombing, Nichols helped McVeigh prepare the truck bomb at a lake near Herington. McVeigh remarked about Nichols's and Fortier's partial withdrawal from the plot, saying they \"were men who liked to talk tough, but in the end their bitches and kids ruled.\" Nichols was at home in Kansas with his family when the bomb went off.\n\nOn April 21, Nichols learned he was wanted for questioning, turned himself in, and consented to a search of his home. The search turned up blasting caps, detonating cords, ground ammonium nitrate, barrels made of plastic similar to fragments found at the bombing site, 33 firearms, anti-government warfare literature, a receipt for ammonium nitrate fertilizer with McVeigh's fingerprints on it, a telephone credit card that McVeigh had used when he was shopping for bomb making equipment, and a hand-drawn map of downtown Oklahoma City. Nichols was held as a material witness to the bombing until he was charged on May 10. Nichols's family said the federal government was framing him and said this was proved by other explosives found inside the building.\n\nInvestigators also combed the Decker, Michigan, farm of James Nichols where Terry Nichols and McVeigh had stayed intermittently in the months preceding the bombing. James was held in custody on charges that he made small bombs on the farm but was released without charges on May 24, with the judge saying there was no evidence he was a danger to others.\n\nMcVeigh was tried before Nichols and sentenced to death. Former army buddy Michael Fortier testified against both McVeigh and Nichols. Fortier had entered into a federal plea agreement for reduced charges in return for his agreement to testify. He was charged with failing to notify authorities in advance of the crime and sentenced to 12 years in prison. Fortier testified that Nichols and McVeigh had expressed anti-government feelings and conspired to blow up the Murrah federal building. He said he helped McVeigh survey the building before the attack. He also testified that Nichols had robbed an Arkansas gun dealer to finance the cost of the bombing. Fortier provided \"solid bricks of evidence\" for the cases against McVeigh and Nichols, according to the prosecutor.\n\nNichols' wife Marife testified as a defense witness, but her story may have helped the prosecution's case. She said her husband had been living a double life prior to the bombing, using aliases, renting storage lockers and lying that he had broken off his relationship with McVeigh. She also testified that Nichols traveled to Oklahoma City three days before the bombing, supporting the prosecution's contention that Nichols helped McVeigh station a getaway car near the Murrah building. Marife also failed to give Nichols an alibi for April 18, 1995, the day the prosecution said Nichols helped McVeigh assemble the truck bomb.\n\nNichols was represented by criminal defense attorney Michael Tigar. The trial lasted nine weeks with the prosecution calling 100 witnesses tying Nichols to McVeigh and the bombing plot. The prosecution argued that Nichols helped McVeigh purchase and steal bomb ingredients, park the getaway car near the Murrah building and assemble the bomb. The defense attempted to cast doubt on the case against Nichols by calling witnesses who said they saw other men with McVeigh before the bombing and by claiming the government had manipulated the evidence against Nichols.\n\nThe jury deliberated for 41 hours over a period of six days, acquitting Nichols on December 24, 1997, of actually detonating the bomb, but convicting him of conspiring with McVeigh to use a weapon of mass destruction, a capital offense. They acquitted Nichols on the charges of first degree (premeditated) murder, but convicted him on the lesser charge of involuntary (unintentional) manslaughter in the deaths of the federal law enforcement officers.\n\nIn assessing why Nichols was not convicted of first degree murder, \"The Washington Post\" noted: Another theory is that some members of the jury believed Nichols's attorneys' arguments that he had withdrawn from the conspiracy before the bombing. His apparent remorse as shown by his crying several times during the testimony could also have swayed the jury.\n\nAfter the penalty hearing concluded, the jury deliberated for 13 hours over two days on whether to give Nichols the death penalty but was deadlocked. U.S. District Court Judge Richard P. Matsch then had the option of giving Nichols life in prison with or without the possibility of parole. On 4 June 1998 he sentenced Nichols to life in prison without parole, calling Nichols \"an enemy of the Constitution\" who had conspired to destroy everything the Constitution protects. Nichols showed no emotion. He was sent to the Federal Supermax Prison in Florence, Colorado. On February 26, 1999, a federal appeals court affirmed Nichols' conviction and sentence.\n\nAfter the federal jury deadlocked on the death penalty, which resulted in a life sentence, citizens of Oklahoma petitioned to empanel a state court grand jury to investigate the bombing. State representative Charles Key led a citizens group that circulated the petitions. It was hoped that evidence implicating other conspirators would be uncovered. A grand jury heard testimony for 18 months about allegations of other accomplices but returned only the indictments against Nichols in March 1999. Oklahoma County District Attorney Wes Lane denied the state prosecution was conducted solely for the purpose of having Nichols executed, saying it was important Nichols be convicted of killing all the victims. \"This case has always been about 161 men, women and children and an unborn baby having the same rights to their day in court as eight federal law enforcement officers,\" Lane said.\n\nNichols was brought from the prison in Colorado to Oklahoma in January 2000 to face the state trial on 160 capital counts of first-degree murder and one count each of fetal homicide, first-degree arson, and conspiracy. The prosecutor's goal was to get the death penalty.\n\nDuring the two-month trial, the prosecution presented a \"mountain of circumstantial evidence\", calling 151 witnesses. Their star witness was Fortier, who said Nichols was intimately involved in the conspiracy and had helped obtain bomb ingredients including fertilizer that was mixed with high octane fuel. Fortier also testified that McVeigh and Nichols stole cord and blasting caps from a rock quarry, and that Nichols robbed a gun collector to obtain money for the plot. Nichols's lawyers said he was the \"fall guy\" and that others had conspired with McVeigh. They wanted to introduce evidence that a group of white supremacists had been McVeigh's accomplices. However, the judge did not allow them to do so, saying that the defense had not shown that any of these people committed acts in furtherance of the conspiracy. In their concluding argument, the defense said, \"People who are still unknown assisted Timothy McVeigh.\" On May 26, 2004, the six-man, six-woman jury took five hours to reach guilty verdicts on all charges. When the verdict was read, Nichols showed no emotion, staring straight ahead.\n\nThe penalty phase of the trial started on June 1, 2004. The same jury that determined Nichols's guilt would also determine whether he would be put to death. During the five-day hearing, 87 witnesses were called including victims and family members of Nichols. Nichols's relatives testified that he was a loving family man. During the closing arguments, the prosecutor argued for the death penalty, stating that 168 people had died so that Nichols and McVeigh \"could make a political statement\". The defense argued that Nichols had been controlled by a \"dominant, manipulative\" McVeigh and urged jurors not to be persuaded by the \"flood of tears\" of the victims who testified. The defense also said that Nichols had \"sincerely\" converted to Christianity. After 19½ hours of deliberation over a three-day period, the jury could not reach a unanimous decision on the death penalty. With the death penalty no longer an option, Nichols spoke publicly for the first time in the proceedings, making a lengthy statement laced with religious references to Judge Steven W. Taylor. Nichols also apologized for the murders and offered to write to survivors to \"assist in their healing process\". Judge Taylor called Nichols a terrorist and said \"No American citizen has ever brought this kind of devastation; you are in U.S. history the No. 1 mass murderer in all of U.S. history\" and sentenced Nichols to 161 consecutive life terms without the possibility of parole. Nichols was returned to the federal prison in Colorado.\n\nDarlene Welch, whose niece was killed in the explosion, said she \"didn't appreciate being preached to\" by Nichols and that she regretted that \"he won't stand before God sooner.\"\n\nActing on a tip from reputed mobster Greg Scarpa, Jr. (son of mobster Greg Scarpa, Sr.), a fellow inmate of Nichols, the FBI searched the crawl space of Nichols's former home in Kansas, 10 years after the bombing. They found explosives in boxes, wrapped in plastic, buried under a foot of rock. The tipster had indicated that the explosives were buried before the attack. Representative Dana Rohrabacher (R-California) described the FBI's failure to find these explosives in 1995 as \"inexcusable.\"\n\nMcVeigh, Nichols and Fortier were the only defendants indicted in the bombing. Nichols denied his involvement in the plot until 2004. Nichols's mother claimed that her son had Asperger syndrome, was manipulated by McVeigh and didn't know what the bomb was for. In a May 2005 letter that he wrote to a relative of two of the victims, Nichols claimed that an Arkansas gun dealer also conspired in the 1995 bombing plot by donating some of the explosives that were used. In a 2006 letter requesting that a judge give his son a light sentence for assault with a deadly weapon, battery of a police officer, and possession of a stolen vehicle, Nichols admitted his participation in the Oklahoma City bombing but said that McVeigh had forced and intimidated him into cooperating.\n\nIn a 2007 affidavit, Nichols claimed that in 1992 McVeigh claimed to have been recruited for undercover missions while serving in the military. Nichols also said that in 1995 McVeigh told him that FBI official Larry Potts, who had supervised the Ruby Ridge and Waco operations, had directed McVeigh to blow up a government building. Nichols claimed that he and McVeigh had learned how to make the bomb from individuals they met while attending gun shows. In the same affidavit, Nichols admitted that he and McVeigh stole eight cases of the gel type explosive Tovex from a Marion, Kansas quarry, some of which was later used in the Oklahoma City truck bomb. He admitted that he had helped McVeigh mix the bomb ingredients in the truck the day before the attack, but he denied that he knew the exact target of the bomb. Nichols wanted to testify in more detail in a videotaped deposition, but a federal appeals court ruled against it in 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5672028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5672028", "title": "Thomas J. Bliley Jr.", "text": "Thomas J. Bliley Jr.\n\nThomas Jerome \"Tom\" Bliley Jr. (born January 28, 1932) is a United States Republican politician and former U.S. Representative from the state of Virginia.\n\nBliley was born on January 28, 1932, in Chesterfield County, Virginia. He attended private Catholic schools and graduated in 1948 at the age of 16 from Benedictine High School (Richmond, Virginia).\n\nIn 1952, Bliley earned a B.A. in Political Science from Georgetown University in Washington, D.C.. He subsequently served as a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy from 1952 to 1955. He worked as a funeral director for Joseph W. Bliley Co. Funeral Home, a family business, eventually serving as President.\n\nBliley, a practicing Roman Catholic, is married to the former Mary Virginia Kelley and is the father of two. He has four grandchildren, a step-grandson and two great-grandsons.\n\nIn 1968, Bliley was elected vice-mayor of Richmond. He held that post until 1970, when he successfully ran for mayor, a position he held until 1977. Bliley grew up as a conservative Southern Democrat, but became a Republican after his term as mayor.\n\nIn 1980, Bliley won the Republican nomination for Congress representing Virginia’s 3rd congressional district after 12-year incumbent David Satterfield announced his retirement. He won with 52 percent of the vote, becoming the first Republican to win an undisputed victory in the district since Reconstruction. (In 1890, the House awarded Republican Edmund Waddill the seat after a disputed election.) \n\nThe 3rd, however, had been trending Republican for some time at the national level. It had been one of the first areas of Virginia where the old Byrd Democrats started splitting their tickets and voting Republican in presidential elections. As a result, it had not supported a Democrat for president since 1948, and had actually come close to electing a Republican twice in the 1960s, with the Democrats only surviving by less than 1,000 votes.\n\nBliley would never face another contest anywhere near as close as his first one. He was reelected five times from the 3rd with little difficulty. After the 1990 census, the Democratic-controlled Virginia General Assembly began the process of redistricting the state. It was faced with a Justice Department order to create a majority-black district in order to comply with the Voting Rights Act. The legislature responded by shifting most of Richmond, which by this time had a black majority, into a new, majority-black 3rd district. Bliley's district was renumbered the 7th, and retained most of the whiter and wealthier sections of Richmond, along with several suburbs. Bliley now represented the most Republican district in Virginia, and he was handily reelected to four more terms, retiring in January 2001.\n\nIn 1995, when the Republican Party gained majority control of the Congress, Bliley was elected Chairman of the House Commerce Committee, a position he held for six years. He was a principal author of several important laws including the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 1997, the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act and the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, also known as the \"Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5706627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5706627", "title": "Thraco-Roman", "text": "Thraco-Roman\n\nThe term Thraco-Roman describes the Romanized culture of Thracians under the rule of the Roman Empire.\n\nThe Odrysian kingdom of Thrace became a Roman client kingdom ca. 20 BC, while the Greek city-states on the Black Sea coast came under Roman control, first as \"civitates foederatae\" (\"allied\" cities with internal autonomy). After the death of the Thracian king Rhoemetalces III in 46 AD and an unsuccessful anti-Roman revolt, the kingdom was annexed as the Roman province of Thracia.\n\n\nThis is a list of several important Thraco-Roman individuals:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26353010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26353010", "title": "Uduokaha Esuene", "text": "Uduokaha Esuene\n\nBrigadier Udoakaha Jacob Esuene (1936 – 1993) was a Nigerian air force officer who was Military Governor of South-Eastern State (later renamed Cross River State) between May 1967 and July 1975 during the military regime of General Yakubu Gowon. He was the first governor after the state was formed in May 1967 when Eastern Region was split into East-Central State, Rivers State and South-Eastern states.\n\nEsuene, who was of Ibibio ethnicity, was a fighter pilot before being appointed governor of South-Eastern State.\nEsuene was dismissed by General Murtala Muhammed when he seized power in July 1975, was charged and found guilt of illegally enriching himself while in office, and was dismissed from the military.\nThe dismissal was, however, reversed by the Armed Forces Ruling Council led by the then Military President; General Ibrahim Babaginda. General Esuene's rank and benefits were restored and backdated to 1975. \nIn the run-up to the 1993 presidential election, he was a candidate for the presidential ticket of the Social Democratic Party (SDP).\n\nAfter his death, his wife Helen Esuene was appointed Minister of State for Health, and later Minister of Environment and Housing in the Cabinet of President Olusegun Obasanjo between 2005 and 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "26705340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26705340", "title": "Vivian Blake", "text": "Vivian Blake\n\nVivian Blake (11 May 1956 – 21 March 2010) was a Jamaican drug kingpin who founded and operated the American operations of the Jamaican Shower Posse.\n\nBlake was born to a poor family in West Kingston, but was granted a scholarship to a private high school, St. George's College. He moved to New York City in 1973, where he started distributing marijuana and cocaine, eventually expanding his network nationwide.\n\nAccording to New York Daily News columnist Patrice O'Shaughnessy, in a column printed on 30 March 2010, Blake is credited with the dubious distinction of being \"one of the creators of crack.\"\n\nDuring the 1980s, also according to O'Shaughnessy, Blake was responsible for flooding Bronx neighborhoods such as Soundview, Crotona Park and Bronx River with tons of cocaine and crack cocaine.\n\nBlake and other gang members were charged in a multiple killing in Miami, but he escaped apprehension by traveling to Jamaica. After later charges were added, he was extradited to the United States in 1999. In 2000, he pleaded guilty to charges including racketeering and conspiracy, and admitted to his role in the gang. He was sentenced to 28 years, but was released on parole after eight.\n\nAfter being released from prison, Blake returned to Jamaica.\n\nBlake died on 21 March 2010 at the age of 53 after being admitted to University Hospital of the West Indies for a heart attack. At the time of his death, he was suffering from kidney disease and undergoing dialysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "47456569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47456569", "title": "Yellowman", "text": "Yellowman\n\nWinston Foster, better known by the stage name Yellowman, is a Jamaican reggae and dancehall deejay, also known as King Yellowman. He was popular in Jamaica in the 1980s, coming to prominence with a series of singles that established his reputation.\n\nWinston Foster was abandoned by his parents and grew up in the Maxfield Children's Home and the Catholic orphanage Alpha Boys School in Kingston, and was shunned due to having albinism, which was not typically socially accepted in Jamaica. Alpha Boys School was known for its musical alumni. In the late 1970s Yellowman first gained wide attention when he finished second (to Nadine Sutherland) in the 1978 Tastee Talent Contest. Like many Jamaican deejays, he honed his talents by frequently performing at outdoor sound-system dances, prominently with Aces International. He had success as a recording artist, working with producer Henry \"Junjo\" Lawes. In 1981, after becoming significantly popular throughout Jamaica, Yellowman became the first dancehall artist to be signed to a major American label (Columbia Records). \n\nHis first album release was in 1982 entitled \"Mister Yellowman\" followed by \"Zungguzungguguzungguzeng\" in 1983 earning instant success. Yellowman's sexually explicit lyrics in popular songs such as \"Them a Mad Over Me\" boasted of his sexual prowess, like those of other reggae singers/deejays, earned Yellowman criticism in the mid-1980s. Yellowman appeared in \"Jamaican Dancehall Volcano Hi-power 1983\" which featured other major dancehall musicians such as Massive Dread, Josey Wales, Burro Banton and Eek-A-Mouse.\n\nYellowman proclaimed, \"I never know why they call it slackness. I talk about sex, but it's just what happens behind closed doors. What I talk is reality.\"\n\nHe had success in 1987 with a version of \"Blueberry Hill\", that topped the charts for several weeks in Jamaica. Yellowman had met Fats Domino where he performed on the island earlier in the decade, and Domino had presented him with a copy of his version. \n\nBy the mid-1990s, Yellowman released socially conscious material, rising to international fame along with singers such as Buju Banton. Yellowman became the island's most popular deejay. During the early 1980s, Yellowman had over 40 singles and produced up to five albums per year.\n\nHe re-invented himself with his 1994 album \"Prayer\", which stepped away from the slackness that gave him his initial fame. His latest albums are \"New York\" (2003) and \"Round 1\" (2005). Yellowman was also a featured guest vocalist on the Run-DMC track \"Roots Rap Reggae\". Yellowman continues to perform internationally with his Sagittarius Band, and has toured through places such as Nigeria where he retains a following of fans, as well as Spain, Peru, Sweden, Italy, Germany, Britain, France, Kenya, the United States and Canada. He also featured on OPM's 2004 album, \"Forthemasses\".\n\nIn 2018, it was announced that he would be awarded the Order of Distinction (Officer Class) by the Jamaican government.\n\nFoster's daughter Kareema followed him into a career in music.\n\nHe has spoken against violence. In the \"Montreal Mirror\" in 2005 he said, \"Now it's not your entertainment or teaching. If you notice the hip hop and dancehall artists today, all they do they sing about drugs, clothes, car, house—when they can't get it, they start get violent. ... I know what violence is like and what it contain and what it can do. I'm glad that the roots is coming back.\" The slackness style with which Yellowman is associated sometimes has homophobic lyrics. However, in the same \"Montreal Mirror\" article he spoke against it: \"Everybody listen to me ... I don't do songs against gay people, I don't do violent lyric against gay people. If you don't like a person or you don't like a thing, you don't talk about it. You don't come on stage and say kill them or burn them because everybody have a right to live.\"\n\nIn 1982, Yellowman was diagnosed with skin cancer, and was initially told that he only had three more years to live. However, this prognosis proved to be inaccurate, and after several surgeries Yellowman was able to continue his career. The cancer went into apparent remission during this time. In 1986 it was diagnosed that the cancer had spread to his jaw; Yellowman underwent very invasive jaw surgery to remove a malignant tumor. This surgery permanently disfigured Yellowman's face, as a large portion of the left side of his lower jaw had to be removed to successfully remove the tumor.\n\nThe instrumental for Yellowman's 1982 \"Zungguzungguguzungguzeng\", the \"Diseases\" riddim by \"Junjo\" Lawes, has been sampled and imitated repeatedly since its original release. The original version of this riddim was performed by Alton Ellis for a song called \"Mad, Mad, Mad\" produced by Coxsone Dodd in 1967. Coxsone Dodd had already released two dub cuts, \"Talking Dub\" and \"Lusaka\", plus a 1980 cut by Jennifer Lara, \"Hurt So Good.\" This riddim came to be known as the 'Diseases' riddim after Michigan and Smiley recorded their song, \"Diseases\", with Henry Junjo Lawes in 1981. The vocal melody of \"Zungguzungguguzungguzeng\" has also been sampled heavily in various reggae and hip hop songs.\n\nTimeline:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40476235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40476235", "title": "Zagir Ismagilov", "text": "Zagir Ismagilov\n\nZagir Garipovich Ismagilov (; ; 1916/1917 — 2003) was a Russian Bashkir composer and educator. He was granted the title People's Artist of the USSR in 1982, and was a member of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union since 1943. The performing arts center in Ufa, Russia is named after him.\n\nThe son of a woodcutter, the composer was born December 26, 1918 (January 8, 1917) in the village of Verkhne-Sermenevo (now known as Sermenevo, in the Beloretsky District of Bashkortostan, Russia). Zagir had three brothers and a sister, who died in 1921 of typhoid fever. \n\nIsmagilov studied in the Bashkir seven-year school in the village of Nijne-Sermenevo. From the beginning of his studies, the future composer was interested in the native folk music of the Bashkir people, and learned to play the quray. In 1932 he went to study at the Inzer wood-chemical school. He graduated early and began working in Beloretsk lespromhoz appraiser. In 1935, Arslan Mubaryakov invited him to take part in the Bashkir Academic Drama Theatre, Ufa, where he played in the evenings as a quray player. During the days he studied at the music studio, which opened in Ufa (1936). In 1937, Ismagilov went to study at the studio of the Bashkir Moscow Conservatory.\n\nDuring World War II he worked in Ufa, was part of concerts given for front-line troops, and composed patriotic songs. After the war, he finished training in the studio in 1948, then became part of the music composition faculty at the Moscow Conservatory.\n\nIsmagilov became chairman of the Union of Composers of the Bashkir Republic in 1958. And in 1968 he was the founder and first rector of the UFA Institute of Arts, where he remained until 1988. He was a deputy of the Supreme Soviet of Bashkortostan for many years, and was eventually elected its Chairman.\n\nThe composer's works were performed in Russia, the republics of the former National Union (now CIS) and internationally (Bulgaria, China, Romania, North Korea, Yugoslavia, and Ethiopia). Additionally, they were published and recorded by the record production company, \"Melodiya\", and are available in the stock records of Bashkir radio and TV.\n\nZagir Ismagilov contributed to the development of national opera, chamber vocal, choral and instrumental music in the Soviet Union. His work expresses the ideological themes of working in harmony, friendship and love, and reflects the civil-patriotic, national creative ideal. The composer developed the tradition of classical Russian music culture, their history and musical-dramatic concepts. Ismagilov's work has had a national historic theme, with strong influence from his Bashkir heritage. His opera \"Salawat Yulayev\" tells the story of a national hero, while the epic opera \"The Ambassadors of the Urals\", deals with the reunification of the Russian Bashkir, and \"Kahym-Turea\" tells the story of a military commander who led the Bashkirs against Napoleon in 1812. The opera \"Akmulla\" is based on the life of the Bashkir poet and educator of the 19th century. Ismagilov's works ranges from operas like \"Shaura\" and \"Waves Agideli\", to musical comedies such as \"Codasil\" and \"Almakan\".\n\nAfter a long illness, he died in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "8287574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8287574", "title": "Zheng Zhihua", "text": "Zheng Zhihua\n\nZheng Zhihua (; born 14 November 1961) is a Taiwanese singer. When he was two, he contracted polio and became permanently paralyzed from the waist down. He started his career in the late 1980s and enjoyed great success and popularity during the early 1990s in both Taiwan and mainland China. He announced his retirement in January 1999, but in 2005 he reemerged.\n\nZheng's most famous songs are “seaman” and “Stars lamps”. His other famous songs are “thirty-three yuan”, “Snail’s home”, and so on.\n\nZheng Zhihua now lives in Beijing.\n\n\nZheng is currently living in Taipei with his family. He frequently travels to China to perform and oversee other business interests. Rumors of a new album end of 2009.\n\n"}
