{"id": "11262428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11262428", "title": "Abd-al-Masih (martyr)", "text": "Abd-al-Masih (martyr)\n\nAbd-al-Masih (or Abda) is the name of two Christian martyrs of the Middle Ages. \n\nOne, of unknown date but later canonised as a saint, was a converted Jewish shepherd boy (known as Aser) who was killed by his father for his faith. The story is set in Singara and is a Syriac text with later versions in Arabic and Armenian. He lived near Sinjar in the Persian Empire. Having been converted to Christianity he pierced his ear to wear earring (probably indication of his slavery). . He died in 390 AD. There is disagreement about the location of his martyrdom. Some sources say Singar (in modern Iraq near the Syrian border), and others say Taglibis in Arabia. He is regarded as the patron saint of sterile women in Syria, and has his feast day observed on July 13, and July 22 or October 3.\n\nAnother medieval martyr was 'Abd al-Masih, also known as Qays al-Ghassani. He died in the 9th century, during a wave of conversions to Islam. His death was recorded in a 10th-century manuscript now belonging to Saint Catherine's Monastery.\n\n"}
{"id": "20916942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20916942", "title": "Abibaal", "text": "Abibaal\n\nAbibaal (; ; both meaning \"My father is Baal\") was a king of Tyre in the 10th century BC, father of the famous Hiram I. The only information known about him is derived from two passages in Josephus's \"Against Apion\", i.17 and i.18. All that is said in these passages is that he preceded his son Hiram on the throne of Tyre. Neither his length of reign nor his immediate predecessors are known. The dating of Abibaal is therefore dependent on the dates assigned to his son, and here it is only the date of Abibaal's death that can be determined, based on the information preserved in Josephus regarding the length of time between the founding of Carthage (or from Dido's flight from Tyre) until the first year of Hiram. See the Hiram I article for details on the determination of this date.\n\n"}
{"id": "22883647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22883647", "title": "Abu 'Ali al-Khayyat", "text": "Abu 'Ali al-Khayyat\n\nAbu 'Ali al-Khayyat (c.770 - c.835), often called by the Latin title Albohali in western sources, (or Albohali Alghihac, Albohali Alchait or Albenahait), was an Arab astrologer and a student of Mashallah.\n\nAl-Khayyat's \"Kitāb al-Mawālid\", \"Book of Birth\", was translated into Latin by Plato of Tivoli in 1136, and again by Johannes Hispalensis in 1153, and this last translation was printed in Nuremberg in 1546 under the title \"Albohali Arabis astrologi antiquissimi ac clarissimi de iudiciis nativitatum liber unus antehac non editus. Cum privilegio D. Iohanni Shonero concesso\".\n\nElements of his \"Kitāb Sirr al-'Amal\", \"Book of the secret action\", are also reproduced in the 12th century \"Book of Nine Judges\", compiled by Hugo of Santalla. The material has been described as being largely taken from the work of Mashalla but in several places borrowing from the work of Omar Tiberiades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19967277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19967277", "title": "Alta Partners", "text": "Alta Partners\n\nAlta Partners is a venture capital firm based in San Francisco which invests primarily in biotechnology and life science companies. \n\nThe company was founded in 1996 by Dr. Jean Deleage, Ph.D., who was also a founder of the venture capital firms Burr, Egan, Deleage & Co. (BEDCO) and Sofinnova, together with Guy Nohra, Marino Polestra, and Garrett Gruener, all former general partners at BEDCO. \n\nAlta Partners is actively investing out of its latest early stage fund by managing directors Dan Janney, Pete Hudson, MD, and Bob More.\n\nThe company was founded in 1996 and invests in biotechnology and life science companies. According to the company website, over the past 22 years, Alta has invested in over 150 companies, including some of the leaders in the biopharmaceuticals, medical technology, healthcare services, and information technology sectors.\n\nThe firm is no longer associated with the Boston-based venture capital firm, Alta Communications, which also traces its roots to Burr, Egan, Deleage & Co.\n\nSince 1996, Alta has raised nine venture capital funds including four funds in its Alta California Funds series, three funds in its Alta Biopharma Partners series, Alta Partners VIII, and most recently Alta Partners NextGen Fund I with $130 million of investor commitments.\n\nThe following is a summary of the venture capital funds raised by Alta as of 2018:\n\n\nThe company has several investments in Anesiva, formerly Corgentech, beginning in November 2000 and including being the lead investor in the company's initial public offering via a stake. Anesiva is involved in the development of therapeutics for pain management.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1351199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1351199", "title": "An-Naziat", "text": "An-Naziat\n\nSūrat an-Nāziʻāt (, “Those Who Pull Out”, in reference to “the angels who tear out the souls of the wicked”) is the seventy-ninth sura of the Qur'an with 46 ayat. Its name derived from the word \"wan-nazi‘at\" with which it opens. The root (n-z-‘) roughly means “to yank out with great force”, although it can also mean “to yearn for” or “to yearn after”.\n\nIts subject matter testifies that \"Sūrat an-Nāziʻāt\" belongs to the earliest period at Makkah. According to Abdullah bin Abbas, this Surah was sent down before Surah An-Naba, whilst Muḥammad Khaṭīb has opined that surah 79 was revealed around five years before the Hegira, although other commentators have dated the surah’s revelation at eight years before the Hegira. Western Qur’an scholar Richard Bell has argued that parts of surah 79, notably the opening verses, may date from a later Meccan period, though this is not generally accepted by other scholars.\n\nIts theme is affirmation of Resurrection and the life hereafter. It also warns of the consequences of belying the Messenger of God.\n\nThe Surah opens with oaths sworn by the angels who take the soul at deaths and those who hasten to carry out Allah’s Commands, and those who conduct the affairs of the universe according to Divine Will, to assure that the Resurrection will certainly come to pass and the second life after death will certainly take place. For the angels who are employed to pluck out the soul today can also be employed to restore the soul tomorrow, and the angels who promptly execute Allah's Commands and conduct the affairs of the universe today can also upset the order of the universe tomorrow by orders of the same God and can also bring about a new order.\n\nAfter this the people have been told, so as to say: “This work which you regard as absolutely impossible, is not any difficult for Allah, for which He may have to make lengthy preparations. Just a single jolt will upset this system of the world and a second jolt will be enough to cause you to appear as living beings in the new world. At that time the same people who were wont to deny it, would be trembling with fear and seeing with awe struck eyes all that they thought was impossible.\n\nThen, relating the story of the Prophet Moses and Pharaoh briefly (it is the chronologically earliest sura to do this), the people have been warned to the effect: “You know full well what fate the Pharaoh met in consequence of belying the Messenger and rejecting the guidance brought by him and endeavoring to defeat his mission by trickery and deceit. If you do not learn any lesson from it and do not change your ways and attitude accordingly, you also will have to meet the same fate.\n\nThen, in vv. 27-13, arguments have been given for the Hereafter and life after death. In this regard, the deniers have been asked the question:\"Is your resurrection a more difficult task or the creation of the huge Universe which spreads around you to infinite distances with myriads of its stars and planets? Your recreation cannot be difficult for the God for Whom this was an easy task. Thus, after presenting in a single sentence, a decisive argument for the possibility of the Hereafter, attention has been drawn to the earth and its provisions that have been arranged in it for the sustenance of man and animal and of which everything testifies that it has been created with great wisdom for fulfilling some special purpose. Pointing to this the question has been left for the intellect of man to ponder for itself and form the opinion whether calling man to account after having delegated authority and responsibilities to a creature like him in this wise system would be more in keeping with the demands of wisdom, or that he should die after committing all sorts of misdeeds in the world and should perish and mix in the dust for ever and should never be called to account as to how he employed the authority and fulfilled the responsibilities entrusted to him. Instead of discussing this question, in vv. 34-41, it has been said: \"When the Hereafter is established, men's eternal future will be determined on the criterion as to which of them rebelled against his God transgressing the bounds of service and made the material benefits and pleasures his objective of life and which of them feared standing before his Lord and refrained from fulfilling the unlawful desires of the self.\" This by itself provides the right answer to the above question to every such person who considers it honestly, free from stubbornness. For the only rational, logical and moral demand of giving authority and entrusting responsibilities to man in the world is that he should be called to account on this very basis ultimately and rewarded or punished accordingly.\n\nIn conclusion, the question of the disbelievers of Makkah as to when Resurrection will take place, has been answered. They asked the Prophet this question over and over again. In reply it has been said that the knowledge of the time of its occurrence rests with Allah alone. The Messenger is there only to give the warning that it will certainly come. Now whoever wishes may mend his ways, fearing its coming, and whoever wishes may behave and conduct himself as he likes, fearless of its coming. When the appointed time comes, those very people who loved the life of this world and regarded its pleasures as the only object of life, would feel that they had stayed in the world only for an hour or so. Then they will realize how utterly they had ruined their future for ever for the sake of the short lived pleasures of the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "7967701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7967701", "title": "Ana Carolina Reston", "text": "Ana Carolina Reston\n\nAnna Carolina Reston Macan (June 4, 1985 – November 14, 2006) was a Brazilian fashion model.\n\nReston was born to a middle-class family in Jundiaí, on the outskirts of São Paulo, Brazil. At the age of 13, she began her modeling career after winning a local beauty contest in her hometown in 1999. Despite being shorter than the usual model at 1.68 m (5 ft 6 in), she was represented by renowned modeling agencies such as Ford, Elite and L'Équipe in countries such as China, Turkey, Mexico, and Japan, and appeared in prestigious ad campaigns such as Giorgio Armani. During her career, she listed her height as just over 5 ft 7 in. \n\nIn January 2004 Reston made her first overseas trip to Guangzhou, China. While attending a casting call there, she was reportedly informed that she was 'too fat', a criticism, it has been said, that led to her decline into anorexia nervosa. The model's cousin reported that Reston also suffered from bulimia nervosa.\n\nReston died on Wednesday, November 15th, 2006. At the time of her death, Reston weighed just 40 kg (88 lbs) at a height of 1.68 m (5 ft 6 in), and had been hospitalized since October 25, 2006, for kidney malfunction due to anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa, which included a diet consisting only of apples and tomatoes. She had a body mass index (BMI) of only 14.1, well below the index value of 16 which the World Health Organization considers to be severe thinness. Her condition became more serious and deteriorated into generalized infection that led to her death at the age of 21.\n\nReston's mother Miriam told the Estado de Sao Paulo newspaper, \"\"I noticed something was wrong when she returned from Japan. She was too thin when she returned and when I told her to eat something, she would say:\" \" 'Mom please don't fight with me; there is nothing wrong with me, I'm fine.'\"\n\nReston was the second model who was reported to have died of anorexia-related complications in 2006, after 22-year-old Luisel Ramos.\n\n"}
{"id": "7771757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7771757", "title": "Arno (ship)", "text": "Arno (ship)\n\nThe Arno, was a 1,825 ton, iron sailing ship with a length of , breadth of and depth of . She was built by Charles Connell & Company, Glasgow, Scotland, for the Nourse Line, named after the Arno River in central Italy, which flows past Florence and Pisa to the Mediterranean Sea, and launched on 19 January 1893. She was primarily used for the transportation of Indian indentured labourers to the colonies. Details of some of these voyages are as follows:\nIn 1896 she was grounded at West Hartlepool, inward bound under tow from Bremen.\n\n\"Arno\" was sold to Norwegian owners in 1910. On 10 October 1913 she left Fredrikstad for Pernambuco and was not seen or heard from again.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49281094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49281094", "title": "Bill Adams (American football coach)", "text": "Bill Adams (American football coach)\n\nBill Adams was an American football coach. He served as the head football coach at Arkansas State College—now known as Arkansas State University—from 1939 to 1941, compiling a record of 5–14–2. Adams attended Arkansas State, where he played college football as a quarterback from 1935 to 1936. He was an assistant football coach at Walnut Ridge High School in Walnut Ridge, Arkansas prior to be hired as the head football coach at his alma mater in May 1939.\n"}
{"id": "21326076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21326076", "title": "Bond vigilante", "text": "Bond vigilante\n\nA bond vigilante is a bond market investor who protests monetary or fiscal policies they consider inflationary by selling bonds, thus increasing yields. \n\nIn the bond market, prices move inversely to yields. When investors perceive that inflation risk or credit risk is rising they demand higher yields to compensate for the added risk. As a result, bond prices fall and yields rise, which increases the net cost of borrowing. The term references the ability of the bond market to serve as a restraint on the government's ability to over-spend and over-borrow.\n\nFrom October 1993 to November 1994 US 10-year yields climbed from 5.2% to just over 8.0% fueled by concerns about federal spending in what became informally known as the \"Great Bond Massacre\". With some guidance from Robert Rubin, the United States Secretary of the Treasury, the Clinton Administration and Congress made an effort to reduce the deficit. 10-year yields dropped to approximately 4% by November 1998. \n\nClinton political adviser James Carville said at the time that “I used to think that if there was reincarnation, I wanted to come back as the president or the pope or as a .400 baseball hitter. But now I would like to come back as the bond market. You can intimidate everybody.\" \n\nDuring the Obama administration some suggest that bond vigilantes were making a return with worries over sustainability and budgetary responsibility. Mark MacQueen, a partner and money manager at Austin, Texas-based Sage Advisory Services Ltd., said “The vigilante group is different this time around. It’s major foreign creditors. This whole idea that we need to spend our way out of our problems is being questioned.\" However, economist Paul Krugman and other New Keynesians pointed out that there was no evidence for bond vigilante activity by pointing out the fact that 10-year yields remained quite low.\n\nDuring the Eurozone crisis that started in 2009, bond vigilantes were blamed for pushing up the government borrowing in the PIIGS countries. However Ed Yardini, who coined the term Bond Vigilantes in the 1980s, said that actions of central banks were able to keep rates low against the pressure of the vigilantes.\n"}
{"id": "2031212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2031212", "title": "Bruno, Duke of Saxony", "text": "Bruno, Duke of Saxony\n\nBruno, also called Brun or Braun ( 2 February 880), a member of the Ottonian dynasty, was Duke of Saxony from 866 until his death. He is rated as an ancestor of the Brunonids, a cadet branch of the Ottonians, though an affiliation is uncertain. Bruno was killed fighting against Norse warriors in the Battle of Luneburg Heath and is venerated as one of the Ebsdorf Martyrs.\n\nHe was the eldest son of the Saxon count Liudolf (died 866) and his wife, Oda of Billung. His father held large estates in Eastphalia along the Leine river, where in 852 he founded the Brunshausen monastery. Bruno succeeded his father and is mentioned as a count in 877. \n\nWhile Liudolf is described as \"dux orientalis Saxonum\", i.e. leader in East Saxony (Eastphalia), it is possible that Bruno, according to the \"Res gestae saxonicae\" by the medieval chronicler Widukind of Corvey, already was \"dux totius Saxonum\", duke (\"Herzog\") of all Saxony. The rise of his family in East Francia is documented by the fact that Bruno's sister Liutgard in 874 married the Carolingian prince Louis the Younger, second son of King Louis the German, whereafter he is called \"ducem et fratrem reinæ\", \"duke and the queen's brother\" in the \"Annales Fuldenses\". Nothing is known of Bruno's marriage and children.\n\nHe supported his brother-in-law Louis the Younger in the fights with his uncle, Emperor Charles the Bald. As Saxon commander-in-chief during the Viking invasions, he died, along with several other noblemen, in a battle against \"Norsemen\" warriors (probably a Danish contingent of the Great Heathen Army, defeated by King Alfred the Great) on Candlemas Day, 2 February 880. The mid-winter battle was a crushing defeat; Duke Bruno, the bishops of Minden and Hildesheim, as well as twelve Saxon counts and several other noblemen were killed. According to the chronicler Bishop Thietmar of Merseburg, Bruno died in a flooded river, which probably took place during the battle or a retreat. He was succeeded by his younger brother Otto the Illustrious, whose son Henry the Fowler became King of East Francia in 919.\n\nBruno is venerated as a saint and martyr in the Catholic Church, being honored with a feast day on 2 February under the name St. Bruno of Saxony. About 1160 his relics were translated by the Dannenberg counts to Ebstorf Abbey near Uelzen, which from the 14th century was defined as the place of the 880 battle and became a major pilgrimage site.\n\nAccording to tradition, Bruno is also the founder of Brunswick as well as the ancestor of the local count Brun I (a candidate in the royal election of 1002) and his Brunonid descendants. Consistent naming suggests a kinship, however, some mentions appear to refer to an earlier Saxon margrave called Brun the Younger, possibly Bruno's grandfather.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10825132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10825132", "title": "Changeling (film)", "text": "Changeling (film)\n\nChangeling is a 2008 American mystery crime drama film directed, produced, and scored by Clint Eastwood and written by J. Michael Straczynski, that explores child endangerment, female disempowerment, political corruption, mistreatment of mental health patients, and the repercussions of violence. The script was based on real-life events, specifically the 1928 Wineville Chicken Coop Murders in Mira Loma, California. The film stars Angelina Jolie as a woman reunited with a boy whom she immediately realizes is not her missing son. When she tries to demonstrate this to the police and city authorities, she is vilified as delusional, labeled as an unfit mother, and then confined to a psychiatric ward.\n\nStraczynski spent a year researching the story after hearing about the Wineville Chicken Coop case from a contact at Los Angeles City Hall. Almost all of the film's script was drawn from thousands of pages of documentation. His first draft became the shooting script; it was his first film screenplay to be produced. Ron Howard had intended to direct the film, but scheduling conflicts led to his replacement by Eastwood. Howard and his Imagine Entertainment partner Brian Grazer produced \"Changeling\" alongside Malpaso Productions' Robert Lorenz and Eastwood. Universal Pictures financed and distributed the film.\n\nSeveral actors campaigned for the leading role; ultimately, Eastwood decided that Jolie's face would suit the 1920s period setting. The film also stars Jeffrey Donovan, Jason Butler Harner, John Malkovich, Michael Kelly, and Amy Ryan. While some characters are composites, most are based on actual people. Principal photography, which began on October 15, 2007, and concluded a few weeks later in December, took place in Los Angeles and other locations in southern California. Actors and crew noted that Eastwood's low-key direction resulted in a calm set and short working days. In post-production, scenes were supplemented with computer-generated skylines, backgrounds, vehicles and people.\n\n\"Changeling\" premiered to critical acclaim at the 61st Cannes Film Festival on May 20, 2008. Additional festival screenings preceded a limited release in the United States on October 24, 2008, followed by a general release in North America on October 31, 2008; in the United Kingdom on November 26, 2008; and in Australia on February 5, 2009. Critical reaction was more mixed than at Cannes. While the acting and story were generally praised, the film's \"conventional staging\" and \"lack of nuance\" were criticized. \"Changeling\" earned $113 million in box-office revenue worldwideof which $35.7 million came from the United States and Canadaand received nominations in three Academy Award and eight BAFTA Award categories.\n\nIn Los Angeles in 1928, single mother Christine Collins returns home to discover her nine-year-old son, Walter, is missing. Reverend Gustav Briegleb publicizes Christine's plight and rails against the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) for its incompetence, corruption and the extrajudicial punishment meted out by its \"Gun Squad\" led by Chief James E. Davis. Several months after Walter's disappearance, the LAPD tells Christine that the boy has been found alive. Believing the positive publicity will negate recent criticism of the department, the LAPD organizes a public reunion. Although \"Walter\" claims he is Christine's son, she says he is not. Captain J. J. Jones, the head of the LAPD's Juvenile Division, insists the boy is Walter and pressures Christine into taking him home \"on a trial basis\".\n\nAfter Christine confronts Jones with physical discrepancies between \"Walter\" and her son, Jones arranges for a medical doctor to visit her. He tells Christine that \"Walter\" is three inches shorter than before his disappearance because trauma has shrunk his spine, and that the man who took Walter had him circumcised. A newspaper prints a story that implies Christine is an unfit mother; Briegleb tells Christine it was planted by police to discredit her. Walter's teacher and dentist each give Christine signed letters confirming \"Walter\" is an impostor. Christine tells her story to the press; as a result, Jones sends her to Los Angeles County Hospital's \"psychopathic ward\". She befriends inmate Carol Dexter, who tells Christine she is one of several women who were sent there for challenging police authority. Dr. Steele (O'Hare) diagnoses Christine as delusional and forces her to take mood-regulating pills. Steele says he will release Christine if she admits she was mistaken about \"Walter\"; she refuses.\n\nDetective Ybarra travels to a ranch in Wineville, Riverside County, to arrange the deportation of 15-year-old Sanford Clark to Canada. The boy's uncle, Gordon Northcott, has fled after a chance encounter with Ybarra, who mentions his business there being a juvenile matter. Clark tells Ybarra that Northcott forced him to help kidnap and murder around twenty children, and identifies Walter as one of them. Jones tells Briegleb that Christine is in protective custody following a mental breakdown. Jones orders Clark's deportation, but Ybarra takes Clark to the murder site and tells him to dig where the bodies are buried. Clark hesitates, but soon uncovers body parts. Briegleb secures Christine's release by showing Steele a newspaper story about the Wineville killings that names Walter as a possible victim. Under interrogation by Ybarra, Walter's impostor reveals his motive was to secure transport to Los Angeles to see his favorite actor, Tom Mix, and says the police told him to lie about being Christine's son. The police capture Northcott in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Meanwhile, Briegleb introduces Christine and her case to famed attorney \"S.S.\" Hahn who takes the case \"pro bono\" and quickly secures a court order for the release of other unjustly imprisoned women whom the police wanted to silence.\n\nOn the day of the city council's hearing into the case, Christine, Hahn, and Briegleb arrive at Los Angeles City Hall, where they encounter thousands of protesters who are demanding answers from the city and decrying the LAPD. The hearing is intercut with scenes from Northcott's trial. The council concludes that Jones and Davis should be removed from duty, and that extrajudicial internments by police must be stopped. Northcott's jury finds him guilty of murder and the judge sentences him to death by hanging.\n\nTwo years later, Christine has still not given up her search for Walter. Northcott sends her a message saying he is willing to admit to killing Walter on condition that Christine meets him before his execution. She visits Northcott, but he refuses to tell her if he killed her son. Northcott is executed the next day.\n\nIn 1935, David Clay, one of the boys assumed to have been killed, is found alive in Hesperia, California. He reveals that one of the boys with whom he was imprisoned was Walter. David, Walter, and another boy escaped, but were separated. David does not know whether Walter was recaptured, but he says Walter helped him escape, giving Christine hope he is alive.\n\nIn the epilogue, it states that after the hearing, Captain Jones was suspended, Chief Davis was demoted, and Los Angeles Mayor George Cryer chose not to run for reelection. California's state legislature made it illegal to forcibly commit people to psychiatric facilities by mere words alone of authorities, and Rev. Briegleb continued to use his radio show to expose police misconduct and political corruption. Wineville is said to have changed its name to Mira Loma to escape the stigma of the murders, and Christine Collins reportedly never stopped searching for her son.\n\n\nIn 1926, 13-year-old Sanford Clark was taken from his home in Saskatchewan (with the permission of his mother and reluctant father) by his uncle, 19-year-old Gordon Stewart Northcott. Northcott took Clark to a ranch in Wineville, California, where he regularly beat and sexually abused the boy — until , when the police took Clark into custody after his sister, 19-year-old Jessie Clark, informed them of the situation. Clark revealed that he was forced to help Northcott and his mother, Sarah Louise Northcott, in killing three young boys after Northcott had kidnapped and molested them. The police found no bodies at the ranch — Clark said they were dumped in the desert — but discovered body parts, blood-stained axes, and personal effects belonging to missing children. The Northcotts fled to Canada, but were arrested and extradited to the United States. Sarah Louise initially confessed to murdering Walter Collins, she later retracted her statement; Gordon, who had confessed to killing five boys, did likewise.\n\nChristine Collins was placed in Los Angeles County Hospital by Captain Jones. After her release, she sued the police department twice, winning the second lawsuit. Although Captain Jones was ordered to pay Collins $10,800, he never did. A city council welfare hearing recommended that Jones and Chief of Police James E. Davis leave their posts, but both were later reinstated. The California State Legislature later made it illegal for the police to commit someone to a psychiatric facility without a warrant. Northcott was convicted of the murders of Lewis Winslow (12), Nelson Winslow (10) and an unidentified Mexican boy; after his conviction, Northcott was reported to have admitted to up to 20 murders, though he later denied the claim. Northcott was executed by hanging in 1930 at the age of 23. Sarah Louise was convicted of Walter Collins' murder and served almost 12 years in prison. In 1930, the residents of Wineville changed the town's name to Mira Loma to escape the notoriety brought by the case.\n\nSeveral years before writing \"Changeling\", television screenwriter and former journalist J. Michael Straczynski was contacted by a source at Los Angeles City Hall. The source told him that officials were planning to burn numerous archive documents, among them \"something [Straczynski] should see\". The source had discovered a transcript of the city council welfare hearings concerning Collins and the aftermath of her son's disappearance. Straczynski became fascinated with the case; he carried out some research, and wrote a spec script titled \"The Strange Case of Christine Collins\". Several studios and independent producers optioned the script, but it never found a buyer. Straczynski felt he lacked the time to devote to making the story work and only returned to the project following the cancellation of his television series \"Jeremiah\" in 2004. After 20 years as a screenwriter and producer for television, Straczynski felt he needed a break from the medium, so he spent a year researching the Collins case through archived criminal, county courthouse, city hall and city morgue records. He said he collected around 6,000 pages of documentation on Collins and the Wineville murders, before learning enough to \"figure out how to tell it\". He wrote the first draft of the new script in 11 days. Straczynski's agent passed the script to producer Jim Whitaker. He forwarded it to Ron Howard, who optioned it immediately.\n\nIn June 2006, Universal Studios and Howard's Imagine Entertainment bought the script for Howard to direct. The film was on a shortlist of projects for Howard after coming off the commercial success of \"The Da Vinci Code\". In , Universal fast-tracked the production. When Howard chose \"Frost/Nixon\" and \"Angels & Demons\" as his next two directing projects, it became clear he could not direct \"Changeling\" until 2009. After Howard stepped down, it looked as if the film would not be made, despite admiration for the script in the industry. Howard and Imagine partner Brian Grazer began looking for a new director to helm the project; they pitched the film to Eastwood in , and he agreed to direct immediately after reading the script. Eastwood said his memories of growing up during the Great Depression meant that whenever a project dealing with the era landed in his hands, he \"redoubled his attention\" upon it. Eastwood also cited the script's focus on Collins—rather than the \"Freddy Krueger\" story of Northcott's crimes—as a factor in deciding to make the film.\n\nStraczynski viewed \"sitting down and ferreting out [the] story\" as a return to his journalistic roots. He also drew on his experience writing crime drama for the procedural elements of the plot. Straczynski said he had gathered so much information about the case that it was difficult to work out how to tell it. To let the story develop at its own pace, he put the project aside to allow himself to forget the less essential elements and bring into focus the parts he wanted to tell. He described what he saw as two overlaid triangles: \"the first triangle, with the point up, is Collins' story. You start with her, and her story gets broader and broader and begins having impact from all kinds of places. The overlay on that was an upside down triangle with the base on top, which is the panorama of Los Angeles at that time—1928. And it begins getting narrower and narrower toward the bottom, bearing down on her.\" Once Straczynski saw this structure, he felt he could write the story. He chose to avoid focusing on the atrocities of the Wineville murders in favor of telling the story from Collins' perspective; Straczynski said she was the only person in the story without a hidden agenda, and it was her tenacity—as well as the legacy the case left throughout California's legal system—that had attracted him to the project. He said, \"My intention was very simple: to honor what Christine Collins did.\"\nWith Collins as the inspiration, Straczynski said he was left with a strong desire \"to get it right\"; he approached it more like \"an article for cinema\" than a regular film. He stuck close to the historical record because he felt the story was bizarre enough that adding too many fictional elements would call into question its integrity. Straczynski claimed that 95% of the script's content came from the historical record; he said there were only two moments at which he had to \"figure out what happened\", due to the lack of information in the records. One was the sequence set in the psychopathic ward, for which there was only limited after-the-fact testimony. Straczynski originally wrote a shorter account of Collins' incarceration. His agent suggested the sequence needed development, so Straczynski extrapolated events based on standard practice in such institutions at the time. It was at this stage he created composite character Carol Dexter, who was intended to symbolize the women of the era who had been unjustly committed. Straczynski cited his academic background, including majors in psychology and sociology, as beneficial to writing the scenes, specifically one in which Steele distorts Collins' words to make her appear delusional. Straczynski worked at making the dialogue authentic, while avoiding an archaic tone. He cited his experience imagining alien psyches when writing \"Babylon 5\" as good practice for putting himself in the cultural mindset of the 1920s.\n\nStraczynski described specific visual cues in the screenplay, such as in Sanford Clark's confession scene. Clark's flashback to a falling axe is juxtaposed with the crumbling ash from Detective Ybarra's cigarette. The image served two purposes: it was an aesthetic correlation between the axe and the cigarette, and it suggested that Ybarra was so shocked by Clark's confession that he had not moved or even smoked in the 10 minutes Clark took to tell his story. As with most of the cues, Eastwood shot the scene as written. To ensure the veracity of the story, Straczynski incorporated quotes from the historical record, including court testimony, into the dialogue. He also included photocopies of news clippings every 15–20 pages in the script to remind people the story was a true one. So the credits could present the film as \"a true story\" rather than as \"based on\" one, Straczynski went through the script with Universal's legal department, providing attribution for every scene. Straczynski believed the only research error he made was in a scene that referenced \"Scrabble\", pre-dating its appearance on the market by two years. He changed the reference to a crossword puzzle. He did not alter the shooting script any further from his first draft; though Straczynski had written two more drafts for Howard, Eastwood insisted the first draft be filmed as he felt it had the clearest voice of the three. Straczynski said, \"Clint's funny—if he likes it, he'll do it, that's the end of the discussion. When I met with him to ask, 'Do you want any changes, do you want any things cut, added to, subtracted from, whatever', he said, 'No. The draft is fine. Let's shoot the draft.\n\nAmong the changes Straczynski made from the historical record was to omit Northcott's mother—who participated in the murders—from the story. He also depicted Northcott's trial as taking place in Los Angeles, though it was held in Riverside. The title is derived from Western European folklore and refers to a creature—a \"changeling\"—left by fairies in place of a human child. Due to the word's association with the supernatural, Straczynski intended it only as a temporary title, believing he would be able to change it later on.\n\nThe filmmakers retained the names of the real-life protagonists, though several supporting characters were composites of people and types of people from the era. Angelina Jolie plays Christine Collins; five actresses campaigned for the role, including Reese Witherspoon and Hilary Swank. Howard and Grazer suggested Jolie; Eastwood agreed, believing that her face fit the period setting. Jolie joined the production in . She was initially reluctant because, as a mother, she found the subject matter distressing. She said she was persuaded by Eastwood's involvement, and the screenplay's depiction of Collins as someone who recovered from adversity and had the strength to fight the odds. Jolie found playing Collins very emotional. She said the most difficult part was relating to the character, because Collins was relatively passive. Jolie ultimately based her performance on her own mother, who died in 2007. For scenes at the telephone exchange, Jolie learned to roller skate in high heels, a documented practice of the period.\n\nJeffrey Donovan portrays Captain J. J. Jones, a character Donovan became fascinated with because of the power Jones wielded in the city. The character quotes the real Jones' public statements throughout the film, including the scene in which he has Collins committed. Donovan's decision to play Jones with a slight Irish accent was his own. John Malkovich joined the production in as Reverend Gustav Briegleb. Eastwood cast Malkovich against type as he felt this would bring \"a different shading\" to the character. Jason Butler Harner plays Gordon Stewart Northcott, whom Harner described as \"a horrible, horrible, wonderful person\". He said Northcott believes he shares a connection with Collins due to their both being in the headlines: \"In his eyes, they're kindred spirits.\" Harner landed the role after one taped audition. Casting director Ellen Chenoweth explained that Eastwood chose Harner over more well-known actors who wanted the part because Harner displayed \"more depth and variety\" and was able to project \"a slight craziness\" without evoking Charles Manson. Eastwood was surprised by the resemblance between Northcott and Harner, saying they looked \"very much\" alike when Harner was in makeup.\n\nAs Harner did for the Northcott role, Amy Ryan auditioned via tape for the role of Carol Dexter. She cited the filming of a fight scene during which Eastwood showed her \"how to throw a movie punch\" as her favorite moment of the production. Michael Kelly portrays Detective Lester Ybarra, who is a composite of several people from the historical record. Kelly was chosen based on a taped audition; he worked around scheduling conflicts with the television series \"Generation Kill\", which he was filming in Africa at the same time. Geoff Pierson plays Sammy Hahn, a defense attorney known for taking high-profile cases. He represents Collins and in doing so plants the seeds for overturning \"Code 12\" internments, used by police to jail or commit those deemed difficult or an inconvenience. Code 12 was often used to commit women without due process. Colm Feore portrays Chief of Police James E. Davis, whose backstory was changed from that of his historical counterpart. Reed Birney plays Mayor George E. Cryer; Denis O'Hare plays composite character Doctor Jonathan Steele; Gattlin Griffith plays Walter Collins; and Devon Conti plays his supplanter, Arthur Hutchins. Eddie Alderson plays Northcott's nephew and accomplice, Sanford Clark.\n\nJames J. Murakami supervised the production design. Location scouting revealed that many of the older buildings in Los Angeles had been torn down, including the entire neighborhood where Collins lived. Suburban areas in San Dimas, San Bernardino and Pasadena doubled for 1920s Los Angeles instead. The Old Town district of San Dimas stood in for Collins' neighborhood and some adjacent locales. Murakami said Old Town was chosen because very little had changed since the 1920s. It was used for interiors and exteriors; the crew decorated the area with a subdued color palette to evoke feelings of comfort. For some exterior shots they renovated derelict properties in neighborhoods of Los Angeles that still possessed 1920s architecture. The crew staged the third floor of the Park Plaza Hotel in Los Angeles into a replica of the 1920s Los Angeles City Council chambers.\n\nThe 1918 Santa Fe Depot in San Bernardino doubled for the site of Collins' reunion with \"Walter\". The production filmed scenes set at San Quentin in the community. A small farm on the outskirts of Lancaster, California, stood in for the Wineville chicken ranch. The crew recreated the entire ranch, referencing archive newspaper photographs and visits to the original ranch to get a feel for the topography and layout. Steve Lech, president of the Riverside Historical Society, was employed as a consultant and accompanied the crew on its visits.\n\nThe production sourced around 150 vintage motor cars, dating from 1918 to 1928, from collectors throughout Southern California. In some cases the cars were in too good a condition, so the crew modified them to make the cars appear like they were in everyday use; they sprayed dust and water onto the bodywork, and to \"age\" some of the cars they applied a coating that simulated rust and scratches. The visual effects team retouched shots of Los Angeles City Hall—on which construction was completed in 1928—to remove weathering and newer surrounding architecture. Costume designer Deborah Hopper researched old Sears department store catalogs, back issues of \"Life\" magazine, and high-school yearbooks to ensure the costumes were historically accurate. Hopper sourced 1920s clothing for up to 1,000 people; this was difficult because the fabrics of the period were not resilient. She found sharp wool suits for the police officers. The style for women of all classes was to dress to create a boyish silhouette, using dropped waist dresses, cloche hats that complemented bob cut hairstyles, fur-trimmed coats and knitted gloves. Jolie said the costumes her Collins character wore formed an integral part of her approach to the character. Hopper consulted historians and researched archive footage of Collins to replicate her look. Hopper dressed Jolie in austere grays and browns with knitted gloves, wool serge skirts accompanying cotton blouses, Mary Jane shoes, crocheted corsages and Art Deco jewelry. In the 1930s sequences at the end of the film, Jolie's costumes become more shapely and feminine, with a decorative stitching around the waistline that was popular to the era.\n\nPrincipal photography began on October 15, 2007, finishing two days ahead of its 45-day schedule on December 14, 2007. Universal Pictures provided a budget of $55 million. The film was Eastwood's first for a studio other than Warner Bros. since \"Absolute Power\" (1997). Filming mainly took place on the Universal Studios backlot in Los Angeles. The backlot's New York Street and Tenement Street depicted downtown Los Angeles. Tenement Street also stood in for the exterior of Northcott's sister's Vancouver apartment; visual effects added the city to the background. The production also used the Warner Bros. backlot in Burbank, California. Eastwood had clear childhood memories of 1930s Los Angeles and attempted to recreate several details in the film: the town hall, at the time one of the tallest buildings in the city; the city center, which was one of the busiest in the world; and the \"perfectly functioning\" Pacific Electric Railway, the distinctive red streetcars of which feature closely in two scenes. The production used two functioning replica streetcars for these shots, with visual effects employed for streetcars in the background.\nEastwood is known for his economical film shoots; his regular camera operator, Steve Campanelli, indicated the rapid pace at which Eastwood films—and his intimate, near-wordless direction—also featured during \"Changeling\"s shoot. Eastwood limited rehearsals and takes to garner more authentic performances. Jolie said, \"You've got to get your stuff together and get ready because he doesn't linger ... He expects people to come prepared and get on with their work.\" Campanelli sometimes had to tell Jolie what Eastwood wanted from a scene, as Eastwood talked too softly. To provide verisimilitude to certain scenes, Eastwood sometimes asked Jolie to play them quietly, as if just for him. At the same time he would ask his camera operator to start filming discreetly, without Jolie's seeing it. Malkovich noted Eastwood's direction as \"redefining economical\", saying Eastwood was quiet and did not use the phrases \"action\" and \"cut\". He said, \"Some [directors]—like Clint Eastwood or Woody Allen—don't really like to be tortured by a million questions. They hire you, and they figure you know what to do, and you should do it ... And that's fine by me.\" Ryan also noted the calmness of the set, observing that her experiences working with director Sidney Lumet on \"100 Centre Street\" and \"Before the Devil Knows You're Dead\" were useful due to his sharing Eastwood's preference for filming a small number of takes. Donovan said Eastwood seldom gave him direction other than to \"go ahead\", and that Eastwood did not even comment on his decision to play Jones with a slight Irish accent: \"Actors are insecure and they want praise, but he's not there to praise you or make you feel better ... All he's there to do is tell the story, and he hired actors to tell their story.\" Gaffer Ross Dunkerley said he often had to work on a scene without having seen a rehearsal: \"Chances are we'll talk about it for a minute or two, and then we're executing it.\"\n\nThe original edit was almost three hours long; to hone it to 141 minutes, Eastwood cut material from the first part of the film to get to Collins' story sooner. To improve the pacing he also cut scenes that focused on Reverend Briegleb. Eastwood deliberately left the ending of the film ambiguous to reflect the uncertain fates of several characters in the history. He said that while some stories aimed to finish at the end of a film, he preferred to leave it open-ended.\n\n\"Changeling\" was director of photography Tom Stern's sixth film with Eastwood. Despite the muted palette, the film is more colorful than some previous Stern–Eastwood collaborations. Stern referenced a large book of period images. He attempted to evoke Conrad Hall's work on Depression-set film \"The Day of the Locust\", as well as match what he called the \"leanness\" of \"Mystic River\"s look. Stern said the challenge was to make \"Changeling\" as simple as possible to shoot. To focus more on Jolie's performance, he tended to avoid the use of fill lighting. Eastwood did not want the flashbacks to Northcott's ranch to be too much like a horror film—he said the focus of the scene was the effect of the crimes on Sanford Clark—so he avoided graphic imagery in favor of casting the murders in shadow.\n\nStern shot \"Changeling\" in anamorphic format on 35mm film using Kodak Vision 500T 5279 film stock. The film was shot on Panavision cameras and C-Series lenses. Due to the large number of sets, the lighting rigs were more extensive than on other Eastwood productions. The crew made several ceilings from bleached muslin tiles. Stern lit the tiles from above to produce a soft, warm light that was intended to evoke the period through tones close to antique and sepia. The crew segregated the tiles using fire safety fabric Duvatyn to prevent light spilling onto neighboring clusters. The key light was generally softer to match the warm tones given off by the toplights. Stern used stronger skypans—more intense than is commonly used for key lighting—to reduce contrasts when applying daytime rain effects, as a single light source tended to produce harder shadows.\n\nStern lit scenes filmed at the Park Plaza Hotel using dimmable HMI and tungsten lights rigged within balloon lights. This setup allowed him to \"dial in\" the color he wanted, as the blend of tones from the tungsten fixtures, wooden walls and natural daylight made it difficult to illuminate the scenes using HMIs or daylight exclusively. Stern said the period setting had little effect overall on his lighting choices because the look was mostly applied in the production design and during digital intermediate (DI), the post-production digital manipulation of color and lighting. Technicolor Digital Intermediates carried out the DI. Stern supervised most of the work via e-mailed reference images as he was in Russia shooting another film at the time. He was present at the laboratory for the application of the finishing touches.\n\nCIS Vancouver and Pac Title created most of the visual effects, under the overall supervision of Michael Owens. CIS' work was headed by Geoff Hancock and Pac Title's by Mark Freund. Each studio created around 90 shots. Pac Title focused primarily on 2D imagery; VICON House of Moves handled the motion capture. The effects work consisted mainly of peripheral additions: architecture, vehicles, crowds and furniture. CIS used 3D modeling package Maya to animate city scenes before rendering them in mental ray; they generated matte paintings in Softimage XSI and Maya, and used Digital Fusion for some 2D shots. The team's work began with research into 1928 Los Angeles; they referenced historical photographs and data on the urban core's population density. CIS had to generate mostly new computer models, textures and motion capture because the company's existing effects catalog consisted primarily of modern era elements. CIS supplemented exteriors with skylines and detailed backdrops. They created set extensions digitally and with matte paintings. CIS created city blocks by using shared elements of period architecture that could be combined, rearranged and restacked to make buildings of different widths and heights; that way, the city could look diverse with a minimum of textural variation. CIS referenced vintage aerial photographs of downtown Los Angeles so shots would better reflect the geography of the city, as Hancock felt it important to have a consistency that would allow audiences to understand and become immersed in the environment.\n\nTo maintain the rapid shooting pace Eastwood demanded, Owens chose to mostly avoid using bluescreen technology, as the process can be time-consuming and difficult to light. He instead used rotoscoping, the process whereby effects are drawn directly onto live action shots. Rotoscoping is more expensive than bluescreen, but the technique had proved reliable for Eastwood when he made extensive use of it on \"Flags of Our Fathers\" (2006) to avoid shooting against bluescreen on a mountaintop. For Owens, the lighting was better, and he considered rotoscoping to be \"faster, easier and more natural\". Owens used bluescreen in only a few locations, such as at the ends of backlot streets where it would not impact the lighting. The Universal Studios backlot had been used for so many films that Owens thought it important to disguise familiar architecture as much as possible, so some foreground and middle distance buildings were swapped. One of his favorite effects shots was a scene in which Collins exits a taxi in front of the police station. The scene was filmed almost entirely against bluescreen; only Jolie, the sidewalk, the taxi cab and an extra were real. The completed shot features the full range of effects techniques used in the film: digital extras in the foreground, set extensions, and computer-generated vehicles.\n\nFor crowd scenes, CIS supplemented the live-action extras with digital pedestrians created using motion capture. House of Moves captured the movements of five men and four women during a two-day shoot supervised by Hancock. The motion capture performers were coached to make the \"small, formal and refined\" movements that Owens said reflected the general public's conduct at the time. CIS combined the motion data with the Massive software package to generate the interactions of the digital pedestrians. The use of Massive presented a challenge when it came to blending digital pedestrians with live-action extras who had to move from the foreground into the digital crowd. Massive worked well until this stage, when the effects team had to move the digital pedestrians to avoid taking the live-action extras out of the shot. To allow close-ups of individual Massive extras, the effects team focused on their faces and walking characteristics. Hancock explained, \"We wanted to be able to push Massive right up to the camera and see how well it held up. In a couple of shots the characters might be 40 feet away from the camera, about 1/5 screen height. The bigger the screen is, the bigger the character. He could be 10 feet tall, so everything, even his hair, better look good!\" Typically, a limited number of motion performances are captured and Massive is used to create further variety, such as in height and walking speed. Because the digital extras were required to be close to the foreground, and to integrate them properly with the live action extras, House of Moves captured twice as much motion data than CIS had used on any other project. CIS created nine distinct digital characters. To eliminate inaccuracies that develop when creating a digital extra of different proportions to the motion capture performer, CIS sent nine skeleton rigs to House of Moves before work began. This gave House of Moves time to properly adapt the rigs to its performers, resulting in motion capture data that required very little editing in Massive. CIS wrote shaders for their clothing; displacement maps in the air shader were linked with the motion capture to animate wrinkles in trousers and jackets.\n\nForgoing the closure favored by its contemporaries, \"Changeling\"s final sequence reflects Collins' renewed hope that Walter is alive. The shot is a two and a half minute sequence showing Collins' walking off to become lost in a crowd. The sequence is representative of the range of effects that feature throughout the film; Los Angeles is presented as major character, brought to life by unobtrusive peripheral imagery that allows the viewer to focus on the story and the emotional cues. The \"hustle and bustle\" of the sequence was required to convey that downtown Los Angeles in 1935 was a congested urban center. In the closing shot, the camera tilts up to reveal miles of city blocks, pedestrians on the streets, cars going by and streetcars running along their tracks. The version of the film that screened at Cannes did not include this sequence; the scene faded to black as Collins walked away. The new 4,000-frame shot was Owens' idea. He felt the abrupt cut to black pulled the viewer out of the film too quickly, and that it left no room for emotional reflection. Owens said, \"There is a legend at the end before the credits. The legend speaks to what happened after the fact, and I think you need to just swallow that for a few moments with the visual still with you.\" Owens told Eastwood the film should end like \"Chinatown\" (1974), in which the camera lifts to take in the scene: \"The camera booms up and she walks away from us from a very emotional, poignant scene at the end, walks away into this mass of people and traffic. It's very hopeful and sad at the same time.\"\n\nOwens did not have time to complete the shot before the Cannes screenings, but afterwards he used cineSync to conduct most of the work from home. The shot includes two blocks of computer-generated buildings that recede into the distance of a downtown set extension. As Collins disappears into the crowd about a minute into the shot, the live footage is gradually joined with more digital work. The streetcars, tracks and power lines were all computer generated. Live-action extras appear for the first minute of the shot before being replaced by digital ones. The shot was made more complicated by the need to add Massive extras. Owens constructed the scene by first building the digital foreground around the live action footage. He then added the background before filling the scene with vehicles and people.\n\nEastwood composed \"Changeling\"s jazz-influenced score. Featuring lilting guitars and strings, it remains largely low-key throughout. The introduction of brass instruments evokes film noir, playing to the film's setting in a city controlled by corrupt police. The theme shifts from piano to a full orchestra, and as the story develops, the strings become more imposing, with an increasing number of sustains and rises. Eastwood introduces voices reminiscent of those in a horror film score during the child murder flashbacks. The score was orchestrated and conducted by Lennie Niehaus. It was released on CD in North America on , 2008, through record label Varèse Sarabande.\n\n\"Changeling\" begins with an abduction, but largely avoids framing the story as a family drama to concentrate on a portrait of a woman whose desire for independence is seen as a threat to male-dominated society. The film depicts 1920s Los Angeles as a city in which the judgment of men takes precedence; women are labeled \"hysterical and unreliable\" if they dare to question it. Film critic Prairie Miller said that in its portrayal of female courage the film was \"about as feminist as Hollywood can get\", and that because of this it had been the subject of sexist disdain. She compared this with the sexism shown to the women in \"Changeling\" and those who vied for high political office in 2008. Miller surmised that attitudes to independent, career-minded women had not changed significantly in the intervening years: Collins defies male-generated cultural expectations that women are not suited for professional careers and are punished for it. Rather than \"an expression of feminist awareness\", David Denby argues, the film—like Eastwood's \"Million Dollar Baby\"—is \"a case of awed respect for a woman who was strong and enduring\". The portrait of a vulnerable woman whose mental state is manipulated by the authorities was likened to the treatment of Ingrid Bergman's character in \"Gaslight\" (1944), who also wondered if she might be insane; Eastwood cited photographs that show Collins smiling with the child she knows is not hers. Like many other women of the period who were deemed disruptive, Collins is forced into the secret custody of a mental institution. The film shows that psychiatry became a tool in the gender politics of the era, only a few years after women's suffrage in the United States was guaranteed by the ratification of the Nineteenth Amendment. As women ceased to be second-class citizens and began to assert their independence, the male establishment used mental institutions in an effort to disempower them; in common with other unmanageable women, Collins is subjected to medical treatment designed to break her spirit and compel obedience, though some of the treatments, specifically the electroconvulsive therapy depicted in the film, did not exist ca. 1928-1930. The film quotes the testimony of the psychiatrist who treated Collins. Eastwood said the testimony evidenced how women were prejudged, and that the behavior of the police reflected how women were seen at the time. He quoted the words of the officer who sent Collins to the mental facility: Something is wrong with you. You're an independent woman. Clint Eastwood said, \"The period could not accept [it]\".\n\nRomantic notions of the 1920s as a more innocent period are put aside in favor of depicting Los Angeles as ruled by a despotic political infrastructure, steeped in sadistic, systematic corruption throughout the city government, police force and medical establishment. In addition to being a Kafkaesque drama about the search for a missing child, the film also focuses on issues relevant to the modern era. Eastwood noted a correlation between the corruption of 1920s Los Angeles and that of the modern era, manifesting in the egos of a police force that thinks it cannot be wrong and the way in which powerful organizations justify the use of corruption. \"[The] Los Angeles police department every so often seems to go into a period of corruption,\" he said, \"It's happened even in recent years ... so it was nice to comment [on that] by going back to real events in 1928.\" Eastwood said that Los Angeles had always been seen as \"glamorous\", but he believed there had never been a \"golden age\" in the city. In \"Changeling\", this dissonance manifests in the actions of Arthur Hutchins, who travels to the city in the hope of meeting his favorite actor. Eastwood said that given the corruption that the story covers, Hutchins' naïvete seemed \"bizarre\". As a lesson in democratic activism, the film shows what it takes to provoke people to speak against unchecked authority, no matter the consequences. Richard Brody of \"The New Yorker\" said this rang as true for 1928 Los Angeles as it did for Poland in 1980 or Pakistan in 2008. The film directly quotes Chief of police James E. Davis: \"We will hold trial on gunmen in the streets of Los Angeles. I want them brought in dead, not alive, and I will reprimand any officer who shows the least bit of mercy to a criminal.\" It compares police excess to the vigilantism of the Ku Klux Klan of the 1920s, as the department's \"Gun Squad\" carries out illegal executions of criminals—\"not to stamp out crime ... but 'competition. The pressure from the police hierarchy was a motivator for officers to quickly solve Walter Collins' disappearance, and a potential reason why they ignored the fact they had returned the wrong child.\n\n\"Changeling\" sits with other late-period Eastwood films in which parenting—and the search for family—is a theme. It makes literal the parental struggle to communicate with children. It can also be seen as a variation of the Eastwood \"revenge movie\" ethic; in this case, the \"avenging grunt\" transforms into a courteous woman who only once makes a foul-mouthed outburst. Eastwood dealt with themes of child endangerment in \"A Perfect World\" (1993) and \"Mystic River\" (2003). \"Changeling\" is a thematic companion piece to \"Mystic River\", which also depicted a community contaminated by an isolated, violent act against a child—a comparison with which Eastwood agreed. He said that showing a child in danger was \"about the highest form of drama you can have\", as crimes against them were to him the most horrible. Eastwood explained that crimes against children represented a theft of lives and innocence. He said, \"When [a crime] comes along quite as big as this one, you question humanity. It never ceases to surprise me how cruel humanity can be.\" Samuel Blumenfeld of \"Le Monde\" said the scene featuring Northcott's execution by hanging was \"unbearable\" due to its attention to detail; he believed it one of the most convincing pleas against the death penalty imaginable. Eastwood noted that for a supporter of capital punishment, Northcott was an ideal candidate, and that in a perfect world the death penalty might be an appropriate punishment for such a crime. He said that crimes against children would be at the top of his list for justifications of capital punishment, but that whether one were pro- or anti-capital punishment, the barbarism of public executions must be recognized. Eastwood argued that in putting the guilty party before his victims' families, justice may be done, but after such a spectacle the family would find it hard to find peace. The scene's realism was deliberate: the audience hears Northcott's neck breaking, his body swings, and his feet shake. It was Eastwood's intention to make it unbearable to watch.\n\n\"Changeling\" premiered in competition at the 61st Cannes Film Festival on May 20, 2008. The film was Eastwood's fifth to enter competition at the festival. Its appearance was not part of the original release plan. Universal executives had been looking forward to the festival without the worry associated with screening a film, until Eastwood made arrangements for \"Changeling\"s appearance. He was pleased with the critical and commercial success that followed \"Mystic River\"s appearance at the festival in 2003 and wanted to generate the same \"positive buzz\" for \"Changeling\". The film was still in post-production one week before the start of the festival. It appeared at the 34th Deauville American Film Festival, held September 5–14, 2008, and had its North American premiere on October 4, 2008 as the centerpiece of the 46th New York Film Festival, screening at the Ziegfeld Theatre.\n\nThe producers and Universal considered opening \"Changeling\" wide in its first weekend to capitalize on Jolie's perceived box office appeal, but they ultimately modeled the release plan after those of other Eastwood-directed films, \"Mystic River\" in particular. While the usual strategy is to open films by notable directors in every major city in the United States to ensure a large opening gross, in what the industry calls a \"platform release\", Eastwood's films generally open in a small number of theaters before opening wide a week later. \"Changeling\" was released in 15 theaters in nine markets in the United States on October 24, 2008. The marketing strategy involved trailers that promoted Eastwood's involvement and the more commercial mystery thriller elements of the story. Universal hoped the limited release would capitalize on good word-of-mouth support from \"serious movie fans\" rather than those in the 18–25-year-old demographic. The film was released across North America on October 31, 2008, playing at 1,850 theaters, expanding to 1,896 theaters by its fourth week. \"Changeling\" was released in the United Kingdom on November 26, 2008, in Ireland on November 28, 2008, and in Australia on February 5, 2009.\n\n\"Changeling\" performed modestly at the box office, grossing more internationally than in North America. The worldwide gross revenue was $113 million. The film's limited American release saw it take $502,000—$33,441 per theater—in its first two days. Exit polling showed strong commercial potential across a range of audiences. CinemaScore polls conducted during the opening weekend revealed the average grade cinemagoers gave \"Changeling\" was A− on an A+ to F scale. Audiences were mostly older; 68% were over 30 and 61% were women. Audience evaluations of \"excellent\" and \"definitely recommended\" were above average. The main reasons given for seeing the film were its story (65%), Jolie (53%), Eastwood (43%), and that it was based on fact (42%). The film made $2.3M in its first day of wide release, going on to take fourth place in the weekend box office chart with $9.4M—a per-theater average of $5,085. This return surpassed Universal's expectations for the weekend. \"Changeling\"s link to the Inland Empire—the locale of the Wineville killings—generated additional local interest, causing it to outperform the national box office by 45% in its opening weekend. The film surpassed expectations in its second weekend of wide release, declining 22% to take $7.3M. By the fourth week, \"Changeling\" had dropped to fifth place at the box office, having taken $27.6M overall. In its sixth week the number of theaters narrowed to 1,010, and \"Changeling\" dropped out of the national top ten, though it remained in ninth place on the Inland chart. \"Changeling\" completed its theatrical run in North America on January 8, 2009, having earned $35.7M overall.\n\n\"Changeling\" made its international debut in four European markets on November 12–14, 2008, opening in 727 theaters to strong results. Aided by a positive critical reaction, the film took $1.6M in Italy from 299 theaters (a per-location average of $5,402), and $209,000 from 33 screens in Belgium. \"Changeling\" had a slower start in France, but improved to post $2.8M from 417 theaters in its first five days, and finished the weekend in second place at the box office. The second week in France saw the box office drop by just 27%, for a total gross of $5.4M. By November 23, 2008, the film had taken $8.6M outside North America. The weekend of November 28–30 saw \"Changeling\" take $4.4M from 1,040 theaters internationally; this included its expansion into the United Kingdom, where it opened in third place at the box office, taking $1.9M from 349 theaters. It took $1.5M from the three-day weekend, but the total was boosted by the film's opening two days earlier to avoid competition from previews of \"\". The return marked the best opening of any Eastwood-directed film in the United Kingdom to that point. Its second week of release in the United Kingdom saw a drop of 27% to $1.1M. \"Changeling\" earned $7.6M in Ireland and the United Kingdom.\n\n\"Changeling\"s release in other European markets continued throughout . By December 8, the film had opened in 1,167 theaters in nine markets for an international gross of $19.1M. \"Changeling\"s next significant international release came in Spain on December 19, 2008, where it opened in first place at the box office with $2.0M from 326 theaters. This figure marked the best opening for an Eastwood-directed film in the country to that point; after six weeks it had earned $11.0M. In , major markets in which the film opened included Germany, South Korea and Russia. In Germany, it opened in ninth place at the box office with $675,000 from 194 theaters. South Korea saw a \"solid\" opening of $450,000 from 155 theaters. In Russia, it opened in eighth place with $292,000 from 95 theaters. By January 26, 2009, the film had taken $47.2M from 1,352 international theaters. Aided by strong word-of-mouth support, \"Changeling\"s Australian release yielded $3.8M from 74 screens after eight weeks. The film opened in Japan on February 20, 2009, where it topped the chart in its first week with $2.4M from 301 screens. After six weeks, it had earned $12.8M in the country. The film's last major market release was in Mexico on February 27, 2009, where it earned $1.4M. The international gross was $77.3M.\n\n\"Changeling\" was released on Blu-ray Disc, DVD, and Video on Demand in North America on February 17, 2009, and in the United Kingdom on March 30, 2009. After its first week of release, \"Changeling\" placed fourth in the DVD sales chart with 281,000 units sold for $4.6 million; by its fourth week of release, the film had dropped out of the top 10, having earned $10.1 million. As of the latest figures, 762,000 units have been sold, translating to $12,638,223 in revenue. The DVD release included two featurettes: \"Partners in Crime: Clint Eastwood and Angelina Jolie\" and \"The Common Thread: Angelina Jolie Becomes Christine Collins\". The Blu-ray Disc release included two additional features: \"Archives\" and \"Los Angeles: Then and Now\".\n\nThe film's screening at Cannes met with critical acclaim, prompting speculation it could be awarded the Palme d'Or. The award eventually went to \"Entre les murs\" (\"The Class\"). Straczynski claimed that \"Changeling\"s loss by two votes was due to the judges' not believing the story was based on fact. He said they did not believe the police would treat someone as they had Collins. The loss led to Universal's request that Straczynski annotate the script with sources. Although the positive critical notices from Cannes generated speculation that the film would be a serious contender at the 2009 Academy Awards, the North American theatrical release met with a more mixed response. , 62% of 201 critics listed by review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes had given the film a positive review, with an average rating of 6.3/10. The website's critical consensus states, \"Beautifully shot and well-acted, \"Changeling\" is a compelling story that unfortunately gives in to convention too often.\" Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average rating to reviews from mainstream critics, reported a score of 63 out of 100 based on 38 reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". The film's reception in several European countries was more favorable, and in the United Kingdom 83% of critics listed by Rotten Tomatoes gave \"Changeling\" a positive review.\nTodd McCarthy of \"Variety\" said Jolie was more affecting than in \"A Mighty Heart\" (2007) because she relied less on artifice. He also noted a surfeit of good supporting performances, Michael Kelly's in particular. Oliver Séguret of \"Libération\" said the cast was the film's best feature. He praised the supporting actors and said Jolie's performance was forceful yet understated. Kirk Honeycutt of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" said Jolie shunned her \"movie star\" persona to appear vulnerable and resolute. He perceived the supporting characters—Amy Ryan's excepted—as having few shades of gray. David Ansen, writing in \"Newsweek\", echoed the sentiment, but said that \"some stories really are about the good guys and the bad\". He said that with the distractions of Jolie's celebrity and beauty put aside, she carried the role with restraint and intensity. Manohla Dargis of \"The New York Times\" felt that Jolie's celebrity was distracting enough to render her unconvincing, and David Denby of \"The New Yorker\" said that while Jolie showed skill and selflessness, the performance and character were uninteresting. He said Collins was one-dimensional, lacking desires or temperament. He cited similar problems with Malkovich's Briegleb, concluding, \"The two of them make a very proper and dull pair of collaborators.\"\n\nMcCarthy admired the \"outstanding\" script, calling it ambitious and deceptively simple. He said Eastwood respected the script by not playing to the melodramatic aspects and not telegraphing the story's scope from the start. Honeycutt wrote that due to its close adherence to the history the drama sagged at one point, but that the film did not feel as long as its 141 minutes because the filmmakers were \"good at cutting to the chase\". Ansen said Straczynski's dialogue tended to the obvious, but that while the film lacked the moral nuance of Eastwood's others, the well-researched screenplay was \"a model of sturdy architecture\", each layer of which built audience disgust into a \"fine fury\". He said, \"when the tale is this gripping, why resist the moral outrage?\"\nSéguret said the film presented a solid recreation of the era, but that Eastwood did not seem inspired by the challenge. Séguret noted that Eastwood kept the embers of the story alight, but that it seldom burst into flames. He likened the experience to being in a luxury car: comfortable yet boring. Denby and Ansen commented that Eastwood left the worst atrocities to audiences' imaginations. Ansen said this was because Eastwood was less interested in the lurid aspects of the case. McCarthy praised the thoughtful, unsensationalized treatment, while Denby cited problems with the austere approach, saying it left the film \"both impressive and monotonous\". He said Eastwood was presented with the problem of not wanting to exploit the \"gruesome\" material because this would contrast poorly with the delicate emotions of a woman's longing for her missing son. Denby said Eastwood and Straczynski should have explored more deeply the story's perverse aspects. Instead, he said, the narrative methodically settled the emotional and dramatic issues—\"reverently chronicling Christine's apotheosis\"—before \"[ambling] on for another forty minutes\". Ansen said the classical approach lifted the story to another level, and that it embraced horror film conventions only in the process of transcending them. McCarthy said \"Changeling\" was one of Eastwood's most vividly realized films, noting Stern's cinematography, the set and costume design, and CGI landscapes that merged seamlessly with location shots. Dargis was not impressed by the production design; she cited the loss of Eastwood's regular collaborator Henry Bumstead—who died in 2006—as a factor in \"Changeling\"s \"overly pristine\" look.\n\nDamon Wise of \"Empire\" called \"Changeling\" \"flawless\", and McCarthy said it was \"emotionally powerful and stylistically sure-handed\". He stated that \"Changeling\" was a more complex and wide-ranging work than Eastwood's \"Mystic River\", saying the characters and social commentary were brought into the story with an \"almost breathtaking deliberation\". He said that as \"a sorrowful critique of the city's political culture\", \"Changeling\" sat in the company of films such as \"Chinatown\" and \"L.A. Confidential\". Honeycutt said the film added a \"forgotten chapter to the L.A. noir\" of those films, and that Eastwood's melodic score contributed to an evocation of a city and a period \"undergoing galvanic changes\". Honeycutt said, \"[the] small-town feel to the street and sets ... captures a society resistant to seeing what is really going on\". Séguret said that while \"Changeling\" had few defects, it was mystifying that other critics had such effusive praise for it. Denby said it was beautifully made, but that it shared the chief fault of other \"righteously indignant\" films in congratulating the audience for feeling contempt for the \"long-discredited\" attitudes depicted. Ansen concluded that the story was told in such a sure manner that only a hardened cynic would be left unmoved by the \"haunting, sorrowful saga\".\n\nIn addition to the following list of awards and nominations, the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures named \"Changeling\" one of the 10 best films of 2008, as did the International Press Academy, which presents the annual Satellite Awards. Several critics included the film on their lists of the top 10 best films of 2008. Anthony Lane of \"The New Yorker\" named it second best, \"Empire\" magazine named it fourth best, and Rene Rodriguez of \"The Miami Herald\" named it joint fourth best with Eastwood's \"Gran Torino\". Japanese film critic Shigehiko Hasumi listed the film as one of the best films of 2000-2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "25153633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25153633", "title": "Cheeseface", "text": "Cheeseface\n\nCheeseface was a dog who featured on the famous \"Death\" Issue of the \"National Lampoon\" magazine, released January 1973. The cover, photographed by Ronald G. Harris, showed a dog with a gun pointed to his head, and the caption \"If You Don't Buy This Magazine, We'll Kill This Dog\". The cover was voted #7 in the Top 40 Magazine Covers of the Last 40 Years by the American Society of Magazine Editors.\n\nIn early 1976, an unidentified assailant tracked down Cheeseface to the farm where he lived and killed him due to his publicity. , how they did this and their reason for doing so remain unknown.\n"}
{"id": "841609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=841609", "title": "Christine Chubbuck", "text": "Christine Chubbuck\n\nChristine Chubbuck (August 24, 1944 – July 15, 1974) was an American television news reporter who worked for WTOG and WXLT-TV in Florida. She is known for being the first person to commit suicide on a live television broadcast.\n\nChubbuck was born in Hudson, Ohio, the daughter of Margaretha D. \"Peg\" (1921–1994) and George Fairbanks Chubbuck (1918–2015). She had two brothers, Greg and Tim. Chubbuck attended the Laurel School for Girls in Shaker Heights, a suburb of Cleveland. During her years at Laurel, she started a small tongue-in-cheek group called the \"Dateless Wonders Knitting Club.\" She attended Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, for one year, majoring in theater arts, then attended Endicott College in Beverly, Massachusetts, before earning a degree in broadcasting at Boston University in 1965.\n\nShe worked for WVIZ in Cleveland for a year in 1966/1967, and attended a summer workshop in radio and television at New York University in 1967. Also in 1967, Chubbuck worked in Canton, Ohio and for three months at WQED-TV in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania as an assistant producer for two local shows, \"Women's World\" and \"Keys to the City\" before leaving, in 1968, to spend four years as a hospital computer operator and two years with a cable television firm in Sarasota, Florida. Immediately before joining ABC affiliate WXLT-TV (now WWSB), she worked in the traffic department of WTOG in St. Petersburg, Florida.\n\nSeveral years before dying, Chubbuck had moved into her family's summer cottage on Siesta Key, Florida. \"The Washington Post\" later reported that she had painted the bedroom and canopied bed to look like that of a young teenager. After the divorce of their parents, her mother Peg and younger brother Greg came to live in the Florida home. When Greg left, her elder brother Timothy moved in. She had a close relationship with her family, describing her mother and Greg as her closest friends.\n\nChubbuck volunteered at Sarasota Memorial Hospital, giving puppet shows to children with intellectual disabilities, and occasionally incorporated the homemade puppets into her WXLT-TV talk show.\n\nWXLT-TV's owner, Bob Nelson, had initially hired Chubbuck as a reporter but later gave her a community affairs talk show, \"Suncoast Digest\", which ran at 9:00 am. Production Manager Gordon J. Acker described Chubbuck's new show to a local paper: \"It will feature local people and local activities. It will give attention, for instance, to the storefront organizations that are concerned with alcoholics, drug users, and other 'lost' segments of the community.\" Page five of the article showed a smiling Chubbuck posed with an ABC camera.\n\nChubbuck took her position seriously, inviting local Sarasota–Bradenton officials to discuss matters of interest to the growing beach community. After her death, the \"Sarasota Herald-Tribune\" reported that Chubbuck had been nominated for a Forestry and Conservation Recognition Award by the Bradenton district office of the Florida Division of Forestry. She was considered a \"strong contender\" by district forester Mike Keel, who had been originally scheduled to appear as a guest on Chubbuck's show the morning of her suicide; he had cancelled out because of the birth of his son.\n\nChubbuck spoke to her family at length about her struggles with depression and suicidal tendencies, though she did not inform them of her specific intent beforehand. She had attempted to overdose on drugs in 1970 and frequently made reference to that event. She had also been seeing a psychiatrist up until several weeks before her death. Chubbuck's mother chose not to tell station management of her daughter's suicidal tendencies, because she feared Chubbuck would be fired as a result.\n\nHer focus on her lack of intimate relationships is generally considered to be the driving force for her depression; her mother later summarized \"her suicide was simply because her personal life was not enough.\" She lamented to co-workers that her 30th birthday was approaching and she was still a virgin who had never been on more than two dates with a man. Her brother Greg later recalled several times she had gone out with a man before moving to Sarasota, but agreed she had trouble connecting socially in the beach resort town. He believed her constant self-deprecation for being \"dateless\" contributed to her ongoing depression. In a later interview, Greg stated that Christine had been in two serious relationships: the first had been when she was a teenager and was with a man in his 20s who had subsequently died in a car accident, and the second had been as an adult, but she had broken it off under pressure from her bigoted father because the boyfriend was Jewish.\n\nShe had her right ovary removed in an operation the year before, and had been told that if she did not become pregnant within two to three years, it was unlikely she would ever be able to conceive.\n\nAccording to the 1974 Sally Quinn article in the \"Washington Post\", Chubbuck had an unrequited crush on co-worker George Peter Ryan. She baked him a cake for his birthday and sought his romantic attention, only to find out he was already involved with sports reporter Andrea Kirby. Kirby had been the co-worker closest to Chubbuck, but she was offered a new job in Baltimore, which had further depressed Chubbuck.\n\nChubbuck's lack of a romantic partner was considered a tangent of her desperate need to have close friends, though co-workers said she tended to be brusque and defensive whenever they made friendly gestures toward her. She was self-deprecating, criticizing herself constantly and rejecting any compliments others paid her. Years later, her brother Greg recalled that she displayed many symptoms of bipolar disorder, which was not generally recognized in the psychiatric community at the time of her death.\n\nA week before her suicide, she told Rob Smith, the night news editor, that she had bought a gun and joked about killing herself on air. Smith later stated that he did not respond to what he thought was Chubbuck's \"sick\" attempt at humor, and changed the subject.\n\nOn the morning of July 15, 1974, Chubbuck confused co-workers by claiming she had to read a newscast to open \"Suncoast Digest\", something she had never done before. That morning's talk show guest waited across the studio while Chubbuck sat at the news anchor's desk. During the first eight minutes of her program, Chubbuck covered three national news stories and then a shooting from the previous day at local restaurant Beef & Bottle, at the Sarasota-Bradenton Airport. The film reel of the restaurant shooting had jammed and would not run, so Chubbuck shrugged it off and said on-camera, \"In keeping with Channel 40's policy of bringing you the latest in 'blood and guts' and in living color, you are going to see another first—an attempted suicide.\" She drew the revolver and shot herself behind her right ear. Chubbuck fell forward violently and the technical director faded the broadcast rapidly to black.\n\nThe station quickly ran a standard public service announcement and then a movie. Some television viewers called the police, while others called the station to inquire if the shooting was staged.\n\nAfter the shooting, news director Mike Simmons found the papers from which Chubbuck had been reading her newscast contained a complete script of her program, including not only the shooting, but also a third-person account to be read by whichever staff member took over the broadcast after the incident. He said her script called for her condition to be listed as \"critical.\"\n\nChubbuck was taken to Sarasota Memorial Hospital, where she was pronounced dead 14 hours later. Upon receiving the news, a WXLT staffer released the information to other stations using Chubbuck's script. For a time, WXLT aired reruns of the TV series \"Gentle Ben\" in place of \"Suncoast Digest.\n\nChubbuck's body was cremated. The funeral ceremony was held on the beach, where her ashes were scattered into the Gulf of Mexico. Approximately 120 people attended, including local officials who had appeared on her show. Three songs by Chubbuck's favorite singer, Roberta Flack, were played. Presbyterian minister Thomas Beason delivered the eulogy, stating, \"We suffer at our sense of loss, we are frightened by her rage, we are guilty in the face of her rejection, we are hurt by her choice of isolation and we are confused by her message.\"\n\nChubbuck's show, \"Suncoast Digest\", stayed on the air for several years with new hosts. Simmons, the station director, said Chubbuck's suicide was unrelated to the station. \"The crux of the situation was that she was a 29-year-old girl who wanted to be married and who wasn't,\" he said in 1977.\n\nThe footage of Chubbuck's death has not been seen since its initial airing, and numerous theories on what happened to the footage have been advanced. One was that the station owner Robert Nelson kept it, and it was in the possession of his widowed wife, Mollie. It was confirmed in June 2016 that the footage of Chubbuck's death exists and had indeed been in Robert Nelson's possession, but was handed over to a \"very large law firm\" for safekeeping by Mollie Nelson. She has no plans on making it publicly available.\n\nIn 2007, Greg Chubbuck spoke publicly about his sister for the first time since 1974 in an E! Entertainment Television special. In 2016, Greg gave an interview to \"The Sun\" newspaper, stating that the tape had been locked away and that he had obtained an injunction to ensure that it would never be released.\n\nIn 2003, Christopher Sorrentino published \"Condition,\" a short story based on Chubbuck's suicide, in the literary magazine \"Conjunctions\".\n\nIn 2016, two films about Chubbuck played at the 2016 Sundance Film Festival. The first, \"Christine,\" was directed by Antonio Campos, and starred Rebecca Hall as Christine Chubbuck and Michael C. Hall as George Peter Ryan. The second was the documentary \"Kate Plays Christine\" which depicts actress Kate Lyn Sheil's preparation for the part of Chubbuck.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "898527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=898527", "title": "Cimetière des Chiens et Autres Animaux Domestiques", "text": "Cimetière des Chiens et Autres Animaux Domestiques\n\nThe Cimetière des Chiens et Autres Animaux Domestiques is often claimed to be the first zoological necropolis in the modern world (the ancient Ashkelon dog cemetery, of course, predates it by thousands of years). It opened in 1899 at 4 pont de Clichy on Île des Ravageurs in Asnières-sur-Seine, Île-de-France.\n\nThis \"Cemetery of Dogs and Other Domestic Animals\" is an elaborate pet cemetery, the burial site for dogs, cats, and a wide variety of pets ranging from horses to monkeys to lions and even fish.\n\nLocated in a northwest suburb of Paris, the pet cemetery caters to a very elite clientele. It contains many ornate sculptures, and at the entry is the monument to Barry, a Saint Bernard mountain rescue dog who died in 1814. The plaque says that during his lifetime, \"Barry\" was responsible for saving the lives of 40 people lost or trapped in the mountain snow. (Barry himself is not buried at the cemetery; his stuffed body is on display at the Swiss Natural History Museum in Bern).\n\nSome of the cemetery's residents are famous in their own right such as Rin Tin Tin, the star of Hollywood films following his rescue during World War I, while others are the beloved pets of the wealthy who could afford this elaborate burial place such as film director Sacha Guitry. Buried here too, is the pet lion of stage actress, feminist, and co-founder of the cemetery, Marguerite Durand and the pet of Camille Saint-Saëns, composer of \"Carnival of the Animals\".\n\nIn 1987, the government of France classified the cemetery as a historical monument. The cemetery presently is owned and managed by the city of Asnières and is open to visitors.\n\nThe impressive entrance to the cemetery was designed by noted architect Eugène Petit in Art Nouveau style.\n\nIn 1910, the gates of the cemetery were reproduced in the city of Curitiba, Paraná (Brazil), for the entrance of its first urban park, the Public Walk.The reference is indicated on bronze plates next to the construction.\n\n"}
{"id": "5664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5664", "title": "Consciousness", "text": "Consciousness\n\nConsciousness is the state or quality of awareness or of being aware of an external object or something within oneself. It has been defined variously in terms of sentience, awareness, qualia, subjectivity, the ability to experience or to feel, wakefulness, having a sense of selfhood or soul, the fact that there is something \"that it is like\" to \"have\" or \"be\" it, and the executive control system of the mind. Despite the difficulty in definition, many philosophers believe that there is a broadly shared underlying intuition about what consciousness is. As Max Velmans and Susan Schneider wrote in \"The Blackwell Companion to Consciousness\": \"Anything that we are aware of at a given moment forms part of our consciousness, making conscious experience at once the most familiar and most mysterious aspect of our lives.\"\n\nWestern philosophers, since the time of Descartes and Locke, have struggled to comprehend the nature of consciousness and identify its essential properties. Issues of concern in the philosophy of consciousness include whether the concept is fundamentally coherent; whether consciousness can ever be explained mechanistically; whether non-human consciousness exists and if so how it can be recognized; how consciousness relates to language; whether consciousness can be understood in a way that does not require a dualistic distinction between mental and physical states or properties; and whether it may ever be possible for computing machines like computers or robots to be conscious, a topic studied in the field of artificial intelligence.\n\nThanks to developments in technology over the past few decades, consciousness has become a significant topic of interdisciplinary research in cognitive science, with significant contributions from fields such as psychology, anthropology, neuropsychology and neuroscience. The primary focus is on understanding what it means biologically and psychologically for information to be present in consciousness—that is, on determining the neural and psychological correlates of consciousness. The majority of experimental studies assess consciousness in humans by asking subjects for a verbal report of their experiences (e.g., \"tell me if you notice anything when I do this\"). Issues of interest include phenomena such as subliminal perception, blindsight, denial of impairment, and altered states of consciousness produced by alcohol and other drugs, or spiritual or meditative techniques.\n\nIn medicine, consciousness is assessed by observing a patient's arousal and responsiveness, and can be seen as a continuum of states ranging from full alertness and comprehension, through disorientation, delirium, loss of meaningful communication, and finally loss of movement in response to painful stimuli. Issues of practical concern include how the presence of consciousness can be assessed in severely ill, comatose, or anesthetized people, and how to treat conditions in which consciousness is impaired or disrupted. The degree of consciousness is measured by standardized behavior observation scales such as the Glasgow Coma Scale.\n\nThe origin of the modern concept of consciousness is often attributed to John Locke's \"Essay Concerning Human Understanding\", published in 1690. Locke defined consciousness as \"the perception of what passes in a man's own mind\". His essay influenced the 18th-century view of consciousness, and his definition appeared in Samuel Johnson's celebrated \"Dictionary\" (1755).\n\"Consciousness\" (French: \"conscience\") is also defined in the 1753 volume of Diderot and d'Alembert's Encyclopédie, as \"the opinion or internal feeling that we ourselves have from what we do.\" \n\nThe earliest English language uses of \"conscious\" and \"consciousness\" date back, however, to the 1500s. The English word \"conscious\" originally derived from the Latin \"conscius\" (\"con-\" \"together\" and \"scio\" \"to know\"), but the Latin word did not have the same meaning as our word—it meant \"knowing with\", in other words \"having joint or common knowledge with another\". There were, however, many occurrences in Latin writings of the phrase \"conscius sibi\", which translates literally as \"knowing with oneself\", or in other words \"sharing knowledge with oneself about something\". This phrase had the figurative meaning of \"knowing that one knows\", as the modern English word \"conscious\" does. In its earliest uses in the 1500s, the English word \"conscious\" retained the meaning of the Latin \"conscius\". For example, Thomas Hobbes in \"Leviathan\" wrote: \"Where two, or more men, know of one and the same fact, they are said to be Conscious of it one to another.\" The Latin phrase \"conscius sibi\", whose meaning was more closely related to the current concept of consciousness, was rendered in English as \"conscious to oneself\" or \"conscious unto oneself\". For example, Archbishop Ussher wrote in 1613 of \"being so conscious unto myself of my great weakness\". Locke's definition from 1690 illustrates that a gradual shift in meaning had taken place.\n\nA related word was \"\", which primarily means moral conscience. In the literal sense, \"conscientia\" means knowledge-with, that is, shared knowledge. The word first appears in Latin juridical texts by writers such as Cicero. Here, \"conscientia\" is the knowledge that a witness has of the deed of someone else. René Descartes (1596–1650) is generally taken to be the first philosopher to use \"conscientia\" in a way that does not fit this traditional meaning. Descartes used \"conscientia\" the way modern speakers would use \"conscience\". In \"Search after Truth\" (\"\", Amsterdam 1701) he says \"conscience or internal testimony\" (\"conscientiâ, vel interno testimonio\").\n\nThe dictionary meanings of the word \"consciousness\" extend through several centuries and several associated related meanings. These have ranged from formal definitions to definitions attempting to capture the less easily captured and more debated meanings and usage of the word.\n\nOne formal definition indicating the range of these related meanings is given in \"Webster's Third New International Dictionary\" stating that \"consciousness\" is:\n\nThe Cambridge Dictionary defines consciousness as \"\"the state of understanding and realizing something.\"\nThe Oxford Living Dictionary defines consciousness as \"The state of being aware of and responsive to one's surroundings.\", \"A person's awareness or perception of something.\" and \"The fact of awareness by the mind of itself and the world.\"\"\n\nMost definitions include awareness, but some include a more general state of being.\n\nThe philosophy of mind has given rise to many stances regarding consciousness. The \"Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" in 1998 defines consciousness as follows:\nIn a more skeptical definition of \"consciousness\", Stuart Sutherland has exemplified some of the difficulties in fully ascertaining all of its cognate meanings in his entry for the 1989 version of the \"Macmillan Dictionary of Psychology\":\nMost writers on the philosophy of consciousness have been concerned with defending a particular point of view, and have organized their material accordingly. For surveys, the most common approach is to follow a historical path by associating stances with the philosophers who are most strongly associated with them, for example Descartes, Locke, Kant, etc. An alternative is to organize philosophical stances according to basic issues.\n\nPhilosophers and non-philosophers differ in their intuitions about what consciousness is. While most people have a strong intuition for the existence of what they refer to as consciousness, skeptics argue that this intuition is false, either because the concept of consciousness is intrinsically incoherent, or because our intuitions about it are based in illusions. Gilbert Ryle, for example, argued that traditional understanding of consciousness depends on a Cartesian dualist outlook that improperly distinguishes between mind and body, or between mind and world. He proposed that we speak not of minds, bodies, and the world, but of individuals, or persons, acting in the world. Thus, by speaking of \"consciousness\" we end up misleading ourselves by thinking that there is any sort of thing as consciousness separated from behavioral and linguistic understandings. More generally, many philosophers and scientists have been unhappy about the difficulty of producing a definition that does not involve circularity or fuzziness.\n\nMany philosophers have argued that consciousness is a unitary concept that is understood intuitively by the majority of people in spite of the difficulty in defining it. Others, though, have argued that the level of disagreement about the meaning of the word indicates that it either means different things to different people (for instance, the objective versus subjective aspects of consciousness), or else is an umbrella term encompassing a variety of distinct meanings with no simple element in common.\n\nNed Block proposed a distinction between two types of consciousness that he called \"phenomenal\" (P-consciousness) and \"access\" (A-consciousness). P-consciousness, according to Block, is simply raw experience: it is moving, colored forms, sounds, sensations, emotions and feelings with our bodies' and responses at the center. These experiences, considered independently of any impact on behavior, are called qualia. A-consciousness, on the other hand, is the phenomenon whereby information in our minds is accessible for verbal report, reasoning, and the control of behavior. So, when we perceive, information about what we perceive is access conscious; when we introspect, information about our thoughts is access conscious; when we remember, information about the past is access conscious, and so on. Although some philosophers, such as Daniel Dennett, have disputed the validity of this distinction, others have broadly accepted it. David Chalmers has argued that A-consciousness can in principle be understood in mechanistic terms, but that understanding P-consciousness is much more challenging: he calls this the hard problem of consciousness.\n\nSome philosophers believe that Block's two types of consciousness are not the end of the story. William Lycan, for example, argued in his book \"Consciousness and Experience\" that at least eight clearly distinct types of consciousness can be identified (organism consciousness; control consciousness; consciousness \"of\"; state/event consciousness; reportability; introspective consciousness; subjective consciousness; self-consciousness)—and that even this list omits several more obscure forms.\n\nThere is also debate over whether or not a-consciousness and p-consciousness always co-exist or if they can exist separately. Although p-consciousness without a-consciousness is more widely accepted, there have been some hypothetical examples of A without P. Block for instance suggests the case of a “zombie” that is computationally identical to a person but without any subjectivity. However, he remains somewhat skeptical concluding \"I don’t know whether there are any actual cases of A-consciousness without P-consciousness, but I hope I have illustrated their conceptual possibility.\" \n\nMental processes (such as consciousness) and physical processes (such as brain events) seem to be correlated: but what is the basis of this connection and correlation between what seem to be two very different kinds of processes?\n\nThe first influential philosopher to discuss this question specifically was Descartes, and the answer he gave is known as Cartesian dualism. Descartes proposed that consciousness resides within an immaterial domain he called res cogitans (the realm of thought), in contrast to the domain of material things, which he called res extensa (the realm of extension). He suggested that the interaction between these two domains occurs inside the brain, perhaps in a small midline structure called the pineal gland.\n\nAlthough it is widely accepted that Descartes explained the problem cogently, few later philosophers have been happy with his solution, and his ideas about the pineal gland have especially been ridiculed. However, no alternative solution has gained general acceptance. Proposed solutions can be divided broadly into two categories: dualist solutions that maintain Descartes' rigid distinction between the realm of consciousness and the realm of matter but give different answers for how the two realms relate to each other; and monist solutions that maintain that there is really only one realm of being, of which consciousness and matter are both aspects. Each of these categories itself contains numerous variants. The two main types of dualism are substance dualism (which holds that the mind is formed of a distinct type of substance not governed by the laws of physics) and property dualism (which holds that the laws of physics are universally valid but cannot be used to explain the mind). The three main types of monism are physicalism (which holds that the mind consists of matter organized in a particular way), idealism (which holds that only thought or experience truly exists, and matter is merely an illusion), and neutral monism (which holds that both mind and matter are aspects of a distinct essence that is itself identical to neither of them). There are also, however, a large number of idiosyncratic theories that cannot cleanly be assigned to any of these schools of thought.\n\nSince the dawn of Newtonian science with its vision of simple mechanical principles governing the entire universe, some philosophers have been tempted by the idea that consciousness could be explained in purely physical terms. The first influential writer to propose such an idea explicitly was Julien Offray de La Mettrie, in his book \"Man a Machine\" (\"L'homme machine\"). His arguments, however, were very abstract. The most influential modern physical theories of consciousness are based on psychology and neuroscience. Theories proposed by neuroscientists such as Gerald Edelman and Antonio Damasio, and by philosophers such as Daniel Dennett, seek to explain consciousness in terms of neural events occurring within the brain. Many other neuroscientists, such as Christof Koch, have explored the neural basis of consciousness without attempting to frame all-encompassing global theories. At the same time, computer scientists working in the field of artificial intelligence have pursued the goal of creating digital computer programs that can simulate or embody consciousness.\n\nA few theoretical physicists have argued that classical physics is intrinsically incapable of explaining the holistic aspects of consciousness, but that quantum theory may provide the missing ingredients. Several theorists have therefore proposed quantum mind (QM) theories of consciousness. Notable theories falling into this category include the holonomic brain theory of Karl Pribram and David Bohm, and the Orch-OR theory formulated by Stuart Hameroff and Roger Penrose. Some of these QM theories offer descriptions of phenomenal consciousness, as well as QM interpretations of access consciousness. None of the quantum mechanical theories has been confirmed by experiment. Recent publications by G. Guerreshi, J. Cia, S. Popescu, and H. Briegel could falsify proposals such as those of Hameroff, which rely on quantum entanglement in protein. At the present time many scientists and philosophers consider the arguments for an important role of quantum phenomena to be unconvincing.\n\nApart from the general question of the \"hard problem\" of consciousness, roughly speaking, the question of how mental experience arises from a physical basis, a more specialized question is how to square the subjective notion that we are in control of our decisions (at least in some small measure) with the customary view of causality that subsequent events are caused by prior events. The topic of free will is the philosophical and scientific examination of this conundrum.\n\nMany philosophers consider experience to be the essence of consciousness, and believe that experience can only fully be known from the inside, subjectively. But if consciousness is subjective and not visible from the outside, why do the vast majority of people believe that other people are conscious, but rocks and trees are not? This is called the problem of other minds. It is particularly acute for people who believe in the possibility of philosophical zombies, that is, people who think it is possible in principle to have an entity that is physically indistinguishable from a human being and behaves like a human being in every way but nevertheless lacks consciousness. Related issues have also been studied extensively by Greg Littmann of the University of Illinois. and Colin Allen a professor at Indiana University regarding the literature and research studying artificial intelligence in androids.\n\nThe most commonly given answer is that we attribute consciousness to other people because we see that they resemble us in appearance and behavior; we reason that if they look like us and act like us, they must be like us in other ways, including having experiences of the sort that we do. There are, however, a variety of problems with that explanation. For one thing, it seems to violate the principle of parsimony, by postulating an invisible entity that is not necessary to explain what we observe. Some philosophers, such as Daniel Dennett in an essay titled \"The Unimagined Preposterousness of Zombies\", argue that people who give this explanation do not really understand what they are saying. More broadly, philosophers who do not accept the possibility of zombies generally believe that consciousness is reflected in behavior (including verbal behavior), and that we attribute consciousness on the basis of behavior. A more straightforward way of saying this is that we attribute experiences to people because of what they can \"do\", including the fact that they can tell us about their experiences.\n\nThe topic of animal consciousness is beset by a number of difficulties. It poses the problem of other minds in an especially severe form, because non-human animals, lacking the ability to express human language, cannot tell us about their experiences. Also, it is difficult to reason objectively about the question, because a denial that an animal is conscious is often taken to imply that it does not feel, its life has no value, and that harming it is not morally wrong. Descartes, for example, has sometimes been blamed for mistreatment of animals due to the fact that he believed only humans have a non-physical mind. Most people have a strong intuition that some animals, such as cats and dogs, are conscious, while others, such as insects, are not; but the sources of this intuition are not obvious, and are often based on personal interactions with pets and other animals they have observed.\n\nPhilosophers who consider subjective experience the essence of consciousness also generally believe, as a correlate, that the existence and nature of animal consciousness can never rigorously be known. Thomas Nagel spelled out this point of view in an influential essay titled \"What Is it Like to Be a Bat?\". He said that an organism is conscious \"if and only if there is something that it is like to be that organism — something it is like \"for\" the organism\"; and he argued that no matter how much we know about an animal's brain and behavior, we can never really put ourselves into the mind of the animal and experience its world in the way it does itself. Other thinkers, such as Douglas Hofstadter, dismiss this argument as incoherent. Several psychologists and ethologists have argued for the existence of animal consciousness by describing a range of behaviors that appear to show animals holding beliefs about things they cannot directly perceive — Donald Griffin's 2001 book \"Animal Minds\" reviews a substantial portion of the evidence.\n\nOn July 7, 2012, eminent scientists from different branches of neuroscience gathered at the University of Cambridge to celebrate the Francis Crick Memorial Conference, which deals with consciousness in humans and pre-linguistic consciousness in nonhuman animals. After the conference, they signed in the presence of Stephen Hawking, the 'Cambridge Declaration on Consciousness', which summarizes the most important findings of the survey:\n\n\"We decided to reach a consensus and make a statement directed to the public that is not scientific. It's obvious to everyone in this room that animals have consciousness, but it is not obvious to the rest of the world. It is not obvious to the rest of the Western world or the Far East. It is not obvious to the society.\"\n\n\"Convergent evidence indicates that non-human animals [...], including all mammals and birds, and other creatures, [...] have the necessary neural substrates of consciousness and the capacity to exhibit intentional behaviors.\"\n\nThe idea of an artifact made conscious is an ancient theme of mythology, appearing for example in the Greek myth of Pygmalion, who carved a statue that was magically brought to life, and in medieval Jewish stories of the Golem, a magically animated homunculus built of clay. However, the possibility of actually constructing a conscious machine was probably first discussed by Ada Lovelace, in a set of notes written in 1842 about the Analytical Engine invented by Charles Babbage, a precursor (never built) to modern electronic computers. Lovelace was essentially dismissive of the idea that a machine such as the Analytical Engine could think in a humanlike way. She wrote:\n\nOne of the most influential contributions to this question was an essay written in 1950 by pioneering computer scientist Alan Turing, titled \"Computing Machinery and Intelligence\". Turing disavowed any interest in terminology, saying that even \"Can machines think?\" is too loaded with spurious connotations to be meaningful; but he proposed to replace all such questions with a specific operational test, which has become known as the Turing test. To pass the test, a computer must be able to imitate a human well enough to fool interrogators. In his essay Turing discussed a variety of possible objections, and presented a counterargument to each of them. The Turing test is commonly cited in discussions of artificial intelligence as a proposed criterion for machine consciousness; it has provoked a great deal of philosophical debate. For example, Daniel Dennett and Douglas Hofstadter argue that anything capable of passing the Turing test is necessarily conscious, while David Chalmers argues that a philosophical zombie could pass the test, yet fail to be conscious. A third group of scholars have argued that with technological growth once machines begin to display any substantial signs of human-like behavior then the dichotomy (of human consciousness compared to human-like consciousness) becomes passé and issues of machine autonomy begin to prevail even as observed in its nascent form within contemporary industry and technology. Jürgen Schmidhuber argues that consciousness is simply the result of compression. As an agent sees representation of itself recurring in the environment, the compression of this representation can be called consciousness.\n\nIn a lively exchange over what has come to be referred to as \"the Chinese room argument\", John Searle sought to refute the claim of proponents of what he calls \"strong artificial intelligence (AI)\" that a computer program can be conscious, though he does agree with advocates of \"weak AI\" that computer programs can be formatted to \"simulate\" conscious states. His own view is that consciousness has subjective, first-person causal powers by being essentially intentional due simply to the way human brains function biologically; conscious persons can perform computations, but consciousness is not inherently computational the way computer programs are. To make a Turing machine that speaks Chinese, Searle imagines a room with one monolingual English speaker (Searle himself, in fact), a book that designates a combination of Chinese symbols to be output paired with Chinese symbol input, and boxes filled with Chinese symbols. In this case, the English speaker is acting as a computer and the rulebook as a program. Searle argues that with such a machine, he would be able to process the inputs to outputs perfectly without having any understanding of Chinese, nor having any idea what the questions and answers could possibly mean. If the experiment were done in English, since Searle knows English, he would be able to take questions and give answers without any algorithms for English questions, and he would be effectively aware of what was being said and the purposes it might serve. Searle would pass the Turing test of answering the questions in both languages, but he is only conscious of what he is doing when he speaks English. Another way of putting the argument is to say that computer programs can pass the Turing test for processing the syntax of a language, but that the syntax cannot lead to semantic meaning in the way strong AI advocates hoped.\n\nIn the literature concerning artificial intelligence, Searle's essay has been second only to Turing's in the volume of debate it has generated. Searle himself was vague about what extra ingredients it would take to make a machine conscious: all he proposed was that what was needed was \"causal powers\" of the sort that the brain has and that computers lack. But other thinkers sympathetic to his basic argument have suggested that the necessary (though perhaps still not sufficient) extra conditions may include the ability to pass not just the verbal version of the Turing test, but the robotic version, which requires grounding the robot's words in the robot's sensorimotor capacity to categorize and interact with the things in the world that its words are about, Turing-indistinguishably from a real person. Turing-scale robotics is an empirical branch of research on embodied cognition and situated cognition.\n\nIn 2014, Victor Argonov has suggested a non-Turing test for machine consciousness based on machine's ability to produce philosophical judgments. He argues that a deterministic machine must be regarded as conscious if it is able to produces judgments on all problematic properties of consciousness (such as qualia or binding) having no innate (preloaded) philosophical knowledge on these issues, no philosophical discussions while learning, and no informational models of other creatures in its memory (such models may implicitly or explicitly contain knowledge about these creatures’ consciousness). However, this test can be used only to detect, but not refute the existence of consciousness. A positive result proves that machine is conscious but a negative result proves nothing. For example, absence of philosophical judgments may be\ncaused by lack of the machine’s intellect, not by absence of consciousness.\n\nFor many decades, consciousness as a research topic was avoided by the majority of mainstream scientists, because of a general feeling that a phenomenon defined in subjective terms could not properly be studied using objective experimental methods. In 1975 George Mandler published an influential psychological study which distinguished between slow, serial, and limited conscious processes and fast, parallel and extensive unconscious ones. Starting in the 1980s, an expanding community of neuroscientists and psychologists have associated themselves with a field called \"Consciousness Studies\", giving rise to a stream of experimental work published in books, journals such as \"Consciousness and Cognition\", \"Frontiers in Consciousness Research\", \"Psyche\", and the \"Journal of Consciousness Studies\", along with regular conferences organized by groups such as the Association for the Scientific Study of Consciousness.\n\nModern medical and psychological investigations into consciousness are based on psychological experiments (including, for example, the investigation of priming effects using subliminal stimuli), and on case studies of alterations in consciousness produced by trauma, illness, or drugs. Broadly viewed, scientific approaches are based on two core concepts. The first identifies the content of consciousness with the experiences that are reported by human subjects; the second makes use of the concept of consciousness that has been developed by neurologists and other medical professionals who deal with patients whose behavior is impaired. In either case, the ultimate goals are to develop techniques for assessing consciousness objectively in humans as well as other animals, and to understand the neural and psychological mechanisms that underlie it.\n\nExperimental research on consciousness presents special difficulties, due to the lack of a universally accepted operational definition. In the majority of experiments that are specifically about consciousness, the subjects are human, and the criterion used is verbal report: in other words, subjects are asked to describe their experiences, and their descriptions are treated as observations of the contents of consciousness. For example, subjects who stare continuously at a Necker cube usually report that they experience it \"flipping\" between two 3D configurations, even though the stimulus itself remains the same. The objective is to understand the relationship between the conscious awareness of stimuli (as indicated by verbal report) and the effects the stimuli have on brain activity and behavior. In several paradigms, such as the technique of response priming, the behavior of subjects is clearly influenced by stimuli for which they report no awareness, and suitable experimental manipulations can lead to increasing priming effects despite decreasing prime identification (double dissociation).\n\nVerbal report is widely considered to be the most reliable indicator of consciousness, but it raises a number of issues. For one thing, if verbal reports are treated as observations, akin to observations in other branches of science, then the possibility arises that they may contain errors—but it is difficult to make sense of the idea that subjects could be wrong about their own experiences, and even more difficult to see how such an error could be detected. Daniel Dennett has argued for an approach he calls heterophenomenology, which means treating verbal reports as stories that may or may not be true, but his ideas about how to do this have not been widely adopted. Another issue with verbal report as a criterion is that it restricts the field of study to humans who have language: this approach cannot be used to study consciousness in other species, pre-linguistic children, or people with types of brain damage that impair language. As a third issue, philosophers who dispute the validity of the Turing test may feel that it is possible, at least in principle, for verbal report to be dissociated from consciousness entirely: a philosophical zombie may give detailed verbal reports of awareness in the absence of any genuine awareness.\n\nAlthough verbal report is in practice the \"gold standard\" for ascribing consciousness, it is not the only possible criterion. In medicine, consciousness is assessed as a combination of verbal behavior, arousal, brain activity and purposeful movement. The last three of these can be used as indicators of consciousness when verbal behavior is absent. The scientific literature regarding the neural bases of arousal and purposeful movement is very extensive. Their reliability as indicators of consciousness is disputed, however, due to numerous studies showing that alert human subjects can be induced to behave purposefully in a variety of ways in spite of reporting a complete lack of awareness. Studies of the neuroscience of free will have also shown that the experiences that people report when they behave purposefully sometimes do not correspond to their actual behaviors or to the patterns of electrical activity recorded from their brains.\n\nAnother approach applies specifically to the study of self-awareness, that is, the ability to distinguish oneself from others. In the 1970s Gordon Gallup developed an operational test for self-awareness, known as the mirror test. The test examines whether animals are able to differentiate between seeing themselves in a mirror versus seeing other animals. The classic example involves placing a spot of coloring on the skin or fur near the individual's forehead and seeing if they attempt to remove it or at least touch the spot, thus indicating that they recognize that the individual they are seeing in the mirror is themselves. Humans (older than 18 months) and other great apes, bottlenose dolphins, killer whales, pigeons, European magpies and elephants have all been observed to pass this test.\n\nA major part of the scientific literature on consciousness consists of studies that examine the relationship between the experiences reported by subjects and the activity that simultaneously takes place in their brains—that is, studies of the neural correlates of consciousness. The hope is to find that activity in a particular part of the brain, or a particular pattern of global brain activity, which will be strongly predictive of conscious awareness. Several brain imaging techniques, such as EEG and fMRI, have been used for physical measures of brain activity in these studies.\n\nAnother idea that has drawn attention for several decades is that consciousness is associated with high-frequency (gamma band) oscillations in brain activity. This idea arose from proposals in the 1980s, by Christof von der Malsburg and Wolf Singer, that gamma oscillations could solve the so-called binding problem, by linking information represented in different parts of the brain into a unified experience. Rodolfo Llinás, for example, proposed that consciousness results from recurrent thalamo-cortical resonance where the specific thalamocortical systems (content) and the non-specific (centromedial thalamus) thalamocortical systems (context) interact in the gamma band frequency via synchronous oscillations.\n\nA number of studies have shown that activity in primary sensory areas of the brain is not sufficient to produce consciousness: it is possible for subjects to report a lack of awareness even when areas such as the primary visual cortex show clear electrical responses to a stimulus. Higher brain areas are seen as more promising, especially the prefrontal cortex, which is involved in a range of higher cognitive functions collectively known as executive functions. There is substantial evidence that a \"top-down\" flow of neural activity (i.e., activity propagating from the frontal cortex to sensory areas) is more predictive of conscious awareness than a \"bottom-up\" flow of activity. The prefrontal cortex is not the only candidate area, however: studies by Nikos Logothetis and his colleagues have shown, for example, that visually responsive neurons in parts of the temporal lobe reflect the visual perception in the situation when conflicting visual images are presented to different eyes (i.e., bistable percepts during binocular rivalry).\n\nModulation of neural responses may correlate with phenomenal experiences. In contrast to the raw electrical responses that do not correlate with consciousness, the modulation of these responses by other stimuli correlates surprisingly well with an important aspect of consciousness: namely with the phenomenal experience of stimulus intensity (brightness, contrast). In the research group of Danko Nikolić it has been shown that some of the changes in the subjectively perceived brightness correlated with the modulation of firing rates while others correlated with the modulation of neural synchrony. An fMRI investigation suggested that these findings were strictly limited to the primary visual areas. This indicates that, in the primary visual areas, changes in firing rates and synchrony can be considered as neural correlates of qualia—at least for some type of qualia.\n\nIn 2011, Graziano and Kastner proposed the \"attention schema\" theory of awareness. In that theory, specific cortical areas, notably in the superior temporal sulcus and the temporo-parietal junction, are used to build the construct of awareness and attribute it to other people. The same cortical machinery is also used to attribute awareness to oneself. Damage to these cortical regions can lead to deficits in consciousness such as hemispatial neglect. In the attention schema theory, the value of explaining the feature of awareness and attributing it to a person is to gain a useful predictive model of that person's attentional processing. Attention is a style of information processing in which a brain focuses its resources on a limited set of interrelated signals. Awareness, in this theory, is a useful, simplified schema that represents attentional states. To be aware of X is explained by constructing a model of one's attentional focus on X.\n\nIn the 2013, the perturbational complexity index (PCI) was proposed, a measure of the algorithmic complexity of the electrophysiological response of the cortex to transcranial magnetic stimulation. This measure was shown to be higher in individuals that are awake, in REM sleep or in a locked-in state than in those who are in deep sleep or in a vegetative state, making it potentially useful as a quantitative assessment of consciousness states.\n\nAssuming that not only humans but even some non-mammalian species are conscious, a number of evolutionary approaches to the problem of neural correlates of consciousness open up. For example, assuming that birds are conscious — a common assumption among neuroscientists and ethologists due to the extensive cognitive repertoire of birds — there are comparative neuroanatomical ways to validate some of the principal, currently competing, mammalian consciousness–brain theories. The rationale for such a comparative study is that the avian brain deviates structurally from the mammalian brain. So how similar are they? What homologues can be identified? The general conclusion from the study by Butler, et al., is that some of the major theories for the mammalian brain also appear to be valid for the avian brain. The structures assumed to be critical for consciousness in mammalian brains have homologous counterparts in avian brains. Thus the main portions of the theories of Crick and Koch, Edelman and Tononi, and Cotterill seem to be compatible with the assumption that birds are conscious. Edelman also differentiates between what he calls primary consciousness (which is a trait shared by humans and non-human animals) and higher-order consciousness as it appears in humans alone along with human language capacity. Certain aspects of the three theories, however, seem less easy to apply to the hypothesis of avian consciousness. For instance, the suggestion by Crick and Koch that layer 5 neurons of the mammalian brain have a special role, seems difficult to apply to the avian brain, since the avian homologues have a different morphology. Likewise, the theory of Eccles seems incompatible, since a structural homologue/analogue to the dendron has not been found in avian brains. The assumption of an avian consciousness also brings the reptilian brain into focus. The reason is the structural continuity between avian and reptilian brains, meaning that the phylogenetic origin of consciousness may be earlier than suggested by many leading neuroscientists.\n\nJoaquin Fuster of UCLA has advocated the position of the importance of the prefrontal cortex in humans, along with the areas of Wernicke and Broca, as being of particular importance to the development of human language capacities neuro-anatomically necessary for the emergence of higher-order consciousness in humans.\n\nOpinions are divided as to where in biological evolution consciousness emerged and about whether or not consciousness has any survival value. Some argue that consciousness is a byproduct of evolution. It has been argued that consciousness emerged (i) exclusively with the first humans, (ii) exclusively with the first mammals, (iii) independently in mammals and birds, or (iv) with the first reptiles. Other authors date the origins of consciousness to the first animals with nervous systems or early vertebrates in the Cambrian over 500 million years ago. Donald Griffin suggests in his book \"Animal Minds\" a gradual evolution of consciousness. Each of these scenarios raises the question of the possible survival value of consciousness.\n\nThomas Henry Huxley defends in an essay titled \"On the Hypothesis that Animals are Automata, and its History\" an epiphenomenalist theory of consciousness according to which consciousness is a causally inert effect of neural activity — “as the steam-whistle which accompanies the work of a locomotive engine is without influence upon its machinery”. To this William James objects in his essay \"Are We Automata?\" by stating an evolutionary argument for mind-brain interaction implying that if the preservation and development of consciousness in the biological evolution is a result of natural selection, it is plausible that consciousness has not only been influenced by neural processes, but has had a survival value itself; and it could only have had this if it had been efficacious. Karl Popper develops in the book \"The Self and Its Brain\" a similar evolutionary argument.\n\nRegarding the primary function of conscious processing, a recurring idea in recent theories is that phenomenal states somehow integrate neural activities and information-processing that would otherwise be independent. This has been called the \"integration consensus\". Another example has been proposed by Gerald Edelman called dynamic core hypothesis which puts emphasis on reentrant connections that reciprocally link areas of the brain in a massively parallel manner. Edelman also stresses the importance of the evolutionary emergence of higher-order consciousness in humans from the historically older trait of primary consciousness which humans share with non-human animals (see \"Neural correlates\" section above). These theories of integrative function present solutions to two classic problems associated with consciousness: differentiation and unity. They show how our conscious experience can discriminate between a virtually unlimited number of different possible scenes and details (differentiation) because it integrates those details from our sensory systems, while the integrative nature of consciousness in this view easily explains how our experience can seem unified as one whole despite all of these individual parts. However, it remains unspecified which kinds of information are integrated in a conscious manner and which kinds can be integrated without consciousness. Nor is it explained what specific causal role conscious integration plays, nor why the same functionality cannot be achieved without consciousness. Obviously not all kinds of information are capable of being disseminated consciously (e.g., neural activity related to vegetative functions, reflexes, unconscious motor programs, low-level perceptual analyses, etc.) and many kinds of information can be disseminated and combined with other kinds without consciousness, as in intersensory interactions such as the ventriloquism effect. Hence it remains unclear why any of it is conscious. For a review of the differences between conscious and unconscious integrations, see the article of E. Morsella.\n\nAs noted earlier, even among writers who consider consciousness to be a well-defined thing, there is widespread dispute about which animals other than humans can be said to possess it. Edelman has described this distinction as that of humans possessing higher-order consciousness while sharing the trait of primary consciousness with non-human animals (see previous paragraph). Thus, any examination of the evolution of consciousness is faced with great difficulties. Nevertheless, some writers have argued that consciousness can be viewed from the standpoint of evolutionary biology as an adaptation in the sense of a trait that increases fitness. In his article \"Evolution of consciousness\", John Eccles argued that special anatomical and physical properties of the mammalian cerebral cortex gave rise to consciousness (\"[a] psychon ... linked to [a] dendron through quantum physics\"). Bernard Baars proposed that once in place, this \"recursive\" circuitry may have provided a basis for the subsequent development of many of the functions that consciousness facilitates in higher organisms. Peter Carruthers has put forth one such potential adaptive advantage gained by conscious creatures by suggesting that consciousness allows an individual to make distinctions between appearance and reality. This ability would enable a creature to recognize the likelihood that their perceptions are deceiving them (e.g. that water in the distance may be a mirage) and behave accordingly, and it could also facilitate the manipulation of others by recognizing how things appear to them for both cooperative and devious ends.\n\nOther philosophers, however, have suggested that consciousness would not be necessary for any functional advantage in evolutionary processes. No one has given a causal explanation, they argue, of why it would not be possible for a functionally equivalent non-conscious organism (i.e., a philosophical zombie) to achieve the very same survival advantages as a conscious organism. If evolutionary processes are blind to the difference between function \"F\" being performed by conscious organism \"O\" and non-conscious organism \"O*\", it is unclear what adaptive advantage consciousness could provide. As a result, an exaptive explanation of consciousness has gained favor with some theorists that posit consciousness did not evolve as an adaptation but was an exaptation arising as a consequence of other developments such as increases in brain size or cortical rearrangement. Consciousness in this sense has been compared to the blind spot in the retina where it is not an adaption of the retina, but instead just a by-product of the way the retinal axons were wired. Several scholars including Pinker, Chomsky, Edelman, and Luria have indicated the importance of the emergence of human language as an important regulative mechanism of learning and memory in the context of the development of higher-order consciousness (see \"Neural correlates\" section above).\n\nThere are some brain states in which consciousness seems to be absent, including dreamless sleep, coma, and death. There are also a variety of circumstances that can change the relationship between the mind and the world in less drastic ways, producing what are known as altered states of consciousness. Some altered states occur naturally; others can be produced by drugs or brain damage. Altered states can be accompanied by changes in thinking, disturbances in the sense of time, feelings of loss of control, changes in emotional expression, alternations in body image and changes in meaning or significance.\n\nThe two most widely accepted altered states are sleep and dreaming. Although dream sleep and non-dream sleep appear very similar to an outside observer, each is associated with a distinct pattern of brain activity, metabolic activity, and eye movement; each is also associated with a distinct pattern of experience and cognition. During ordinary non-dream sleep, people who are awakened report only vague and sketchy thoughts, and their experiences do not cohere into a continuous narrative. During dream sleep, in contrast, people who are awakened report rich and detailed experiences in which events form a continuous progression, which may however be interrupted by bizarre or fantastic intrusions. Thought processes during the dream state frequently show a high level of irrationality. Both dream and non-dream states are associated with severe disruption of memory: it usually disappears in seconds during the non-dream state, and in minutes after awakening from a dream unless actively refreshed.\n\nResearch conducted on the effects of partial epileptic seizures on consciousness found that patients who suffer from partial epileptic seizures experience altered states of consciousness. In partial epileptic seizures, consciousness is impaired or lost while some aspects of consciousness, often automated behaviors, remain intact. Studies found that when measuring the qualitative features during partial epileptic seizures, patients exhibited an increase in arousal and became absorbed in the experience of the seizure, followed by difficulty in focusing and shifting attention.\n\nA variety of psychoactive drugs, including alcohol, have notable effects on consciousness. These range from a simple dulling of awareness produced by sedatives, to increases in the intensity of sensory qualities produced by stimulants, cannabis, empathogens–entactogens such as MDMA (\"Ecstasy\"), or most notably by the class of drugs known as psychedelics. LSD, mescaline, psilocybin, Dimethyltryptamine, and others in this group can produce major distortions of perception, including hallucinations; some users even describe their drug-induced experiences as mystical or spiritual in quality. The brain mechanisms underlying these effects are not as well understood as those induced by use of alcohol, but there is substantial evidence that alterations in the brain system that uses the chemical neurotransmitter serotonin play an essential role.\n\nThere has been some research into physiological changes in yogis and people who practise various techniques of meditation. Some research with brain waves during meditation has reported differences between those corresponding to ordinary relaxation and those corresponding to meditation. It has been disputed, however, whether there is enough evidence to count these as physiologically distinct states of consciousness.\n\nThe most extensive study of the characteristics of altered states of consciousness was made by psychologist Charles Tart in the 1960s and 1970s. Tart analyzed a state of consciousness as made up of a number of component processes, including exteroception (sensing the external world); interoception (sensing the body); input-processing (seeing meaning); emotions; memory; time sense; sense of identity; evaluation and cognitive processing; motor output; and interaction with the environment. Each of these, in his view, could be altered in multiple ways by drugs or other manipulations. The components that Tart identified have not, however, been validated by empirical studies. Research in this area has not yet reached firm conclusions, but a recent questionnaire-based study identified eleven significant factors contributing to drug-induced states of consciousness: experience of unity; spiritual experience; blissful state; insightfulness; disembodiment; impaired control and cognition; anxiety; complex imagery; elementary imagery; audio-visual synesthesia; and changed meaning of percepts.\n\nPhenomenology is a method of inquiry that attempts to examine the structure of consciousness in its own right, putting aside problems regarding the relationship of consciousness to the physical world. This approach was first proposed by the philosopher Edmund Husserl, and later elaborated by other philosophers and scientists. Husserl's original concept gave rise to two distinct lines of inquiry, in philosophy and psychology. In philosophy, phenomenology has largely been devoted to fundamental metaphysical questions, such as the nature of intentionality (\"aboutness\"). In psychology, phenomenology largely has meant attempting to investigate consciousness using the method of introspection, which means looking into one's own mind and reporting what one observes. This method fell into disrepute in the early twentieth century because of grave doubts about its reliability, but has been rehabilitated to some degree, especially when used in combination with techniques for examining brain activity.\nIntrospectively, the world of conscious experience seems to have considerable structure. Immanuel Kant asserted that the world as we perceive it is organized according to a set of fundamental \"intuitions\", which include 'object' (we perceive the world as a set of distinct things); 'shape'; 'quality' (color, warmth, etc.); 'space' (distance, direction, and location); and 'time'. Some of these constructs, such as space and time, correspond to the way the world is structured by the laws of physics; for others the correspondence is not as clear. Understanding the physical basis of qualities, such as redness or pain, has been particularly challenging. David Chalmers has called this the hard problem of consciousness. Some philosophers have argued that it is intrinsically unsolvable, because qualities (\"qualia\") are ineffable; that is, they are \"raw feels\", incapable of being analyzed into component processes. Other psychologists and neuroscientists reject these arguments. For example, research on ideasthesia shows that qualia are organised into a semantic-like network. Nevertheless, it is clear that the relationship between a physical entity such as light and a perceptual quality such as color is extraordinarily complex and indirect, as demonstrated by a variety of optical illusions such as neon color spreading.\n\nIn neuroscience, a great deal of effort has gone into investigating how the perceived world of conscious awareness is constructed inside the brain. The process is generally thought to involve two primary mechanisms: (1) hierarchical processing of sensory inputs, and (2) memory. Signals arising from sensory organs are transmitted to the brain and then processed in a series of stages, which extract multiple types of information from the raw input. In the visual system, for example, sensory signals from the eyes are transmitted to the thalamus and then to the primary visual cortex; inside the cerebral cortex they are sent to areas that extract features such as three-dimensional structure, shape, color, and motion. Memory comes into play in at least two ways. First, it allows sensory information to be evaluated in the context of previous experience. Second, and even more importantly, working memory allows information to be integrated over time so that it can generate a stable representation of the world—Gerald Edelman expressed this point vividly by titling one of his books about consciousness \"The Remembered Present\". In computational neuroscience, Bayesian approaches to brain function have been used to understand both the evaluation of sensory information in light of previous experience, and the integration of information over time. Bayesian models of the brain are probabilistic inference models, in which the brain takes advantage of prior knowledge to interpret uncertain sensory inputs in order to formulate a conscious percept; Bayesian models have successfully predicted many perceptual phenomena in vision and the nonvisual senses.\n\nDespite the large amount of information available, many important aspects of perception remain mysterious. A great deal is known about low-level signal processing in sensory systems. However, how sensory systems, action systems, and language systems interact are poorly understood. At a deeper level, there are still basic conceptual issues that remain unresolved. Many scientists have found it difficult to reconcile the fact that information is distributed across multiple brain areas with the apparent unity of consciousness: this is one aspect of the so-called binding problem. There are also some scientists who have expressed grave reservations about the idea that the brain forms representations of the outside world at all: influential members of this group include psychologist J. J. Gibson and roboticist Rodney Brooks, who both argued in favor of \"intelligence without representation\".\n\nThe medical approach to consciousness is practically oriented. It derives from a need to treat people whose brain function has been impaired as a result of disease, brain damage, toxins, or drugs. In medicine, conceptual distinctions are considered useful to the degree that they can help to guide treatments. Whereas the philosophical approach to consciousness focuses on its fundamental nature and its contents, the medical approach focuses on the amount of consciousness a person has: in medicine, consciousness is assessed as a \"level\" ranging from coma and brain death at the low end, to full alertness and purposeful responsiveness at the high end.\n\nConsciousness is of concern to patients and physicians, especially neurologists and anesthesiologists. Patients may suffer from disorders of consciousness, or may need to be anesthetized for a surgical procedure. Physicians may perform consciousness-related interventions such as instructing the patient to sleep, administering general anesthesia, or inducing medical coma. Also, bioethicists may be concerned with the ethical implications of consciousness in medical cases of patients such as the Karen Ann Quinlan case, while neuroscientists may study patients with impaired consciousness in hopes of gaining information about how the brain works.\n\nIn medicine, consciousness is examined using a set of procedures known as neuropsychological assessment. There are two commonly used methods for assessing the level of consciousness of a patient: a simple procedure that requires minimal training, and a more complex procedure that requires substantial expertise. The simple procedure begins by asking whether the patient is able to move and react to physical stimuli. If so, the next question is whether the patient can respond in a meaningful way to questions and commands. If so, the patient is asked for name, current location, and current day and time. A patient who can answer all of these questions is said to be \"alert and oriented times four\" (sometimes denoted \"A&Ox4\" on a medical chart), and is usually considered fully conscious.\n\nThe more complex procedure is known as a neurological examination, and is usually carried out by a neurologist in a hospital setting. A formal neurological examination runs through a precisely delineated series of tests, beginning with tests for basic sensorimotor reflexes, and culminating with tests for sophisticated use of language. The outcome may be summarized using the Glasgow Coma Scale, which yields a number in the range 3—15, with a score of 3 to 8 indicating coma, and 15 indicating full consciousness. The Glasgow Coma Scale has three subscales, measuring the best motor response (ranging from \"no motor response\" to \"obeys commands\"), the best eye response (ranging from \"no eye opening\" to \"eyes opening spontaneously\") and the best verbal response (ranging from \"no verbal response\" to \"fully oriented\"). There is also a simpler pediatric version of the scale, for children too young to be able to use language.\n\nIn 2013, an experimental procedure was developed to measure degrees of consciousness, the procedure involving stimulating the brain with a magnetic pulse, measuring resulting waves of electrical activity, and developing a consciousness score based on the complexity of the brain activity.\n\nMedical conditions that inhibit consciousness are considered disorders of consciousness. This category generally includes minimally conscious state and persistent vegetative state, but sometimes also includes the less severe locked-in syndrome and more severe chronic coma. Differential diagnosis of these disorders is an active area of biomedical research. Finally, brain death results in an irreversible disruption of consciousness. While other conditions may cause a moderate deterioration (e.g., dementia and delirium) or transient interruption (e.g., grand mal and petit mal seizures) of consciousness, they are not included in this category.\n\nOne of the most striking disorders of consciousness goes by the name anosognosia, a Greek-derived term meaning 'unawareness of disease'. This is a condition in which patients are disabled in some way, most commonly as a result of a stroke, but either misunderstand the nature of the problem or deny that there is anything wrong with them. The most frequently occurring form is seen in people who have experienced a stroke damaging the parietal lobe in the right hemisphere of the brain, giving rise to a syndrome known as hemispatial neglect, characterized by an inability to direct action or attention toward objects located to the left with respect to their bodies. Patients with hemispatial neglect are often paralyzed on the right side of the body, but sometimes deny being unable to move. When questioned about the obvious problem, the patient may avoid giving a direct answer, or may give an explanation that doesn't make sense. Patients with hemispatial neglect may also fail to recognize paralyzed parts of their bodies: one frequently mentioned case is of a man who repeatedly tried to throw his own paralyzed right leg out of the bed he was lying in, and when asked what he was doing, complained that somebody had put a dead leg into the bed with him. An even more striking type of anosognosia is Anton–Babinski syndrome, a rarely occurring condition in which patients become blind but claim to be able to see normally, and persist in this claim in spite of all evidence to the contrary.\n\nWilliam James is usually credited with popularizing the idea that human consciousness flows like a stream, in his \"Principles of Psychology\" of 1890. According to James, the \"stream of thought\" is governed by five characteristics: \"(1) Every thought tends to be part of a personal consciousness. (2) Within each personal consciousness thought is always changing. (3) Within each personal consciousness thought is sensibly continuous. (4) It always appears to deal with objects independent of itself. (5) It is interested in some parts of these objects to the exclusion of others\". A similar concept appears in Buddhist philosophy, expressed by the Sanskrit term \"Citta-saṃtāna\", which is usually translated as mindstream or \"mental continuum\". Buddhist teachings describe that consciousness manifests moment to moment as sense impressions and mental phenomena that are continuously changing. The teachings list six triggers that can result in the generation of different mental events. These triggers are input from the five senses (seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting or touch sensations), or a thought (relating to the past, present or the future) that happen to arise in the mind. The mental events generated as a result of these triggers are: feelings, perceptions and intentions/behaviour. The moment-by-moment manifestation of the mind-stream is said to happen in every person all the time. It even happens in a scientist who analyses various phenomena in the world, or analyses the material body including the organ brain. The manifestation of the mindstream is also described as being influenced by physical laws, biological laws, psychological laws, volitional laws, and universal laws. The purpose of the Buddhist practice of mindfulness is to understand the inherent nature of the consciousness and its characteristics.\n\nIn the west, the primary impact of the idea has been on literature rather than science: stream of consciousness as a narrative mode means writing in a way that attempts to portray the moment-to-moment thoughts and experiences of a character. This technique perhaps had its beginnings in the monologues of Shakespeare's plays, and reached its fullest development in the novels of James Joyce and Virginia Woolf, although it has also been used by many other noted writers.\n\nHere for example is a passage from Joyce's Ulysses about the thoughts of Molly Bloom:\n\nConsciousness may have a determinative role in quantum mechanics. Since consciousness is the primary aspect of an observer, and observation is sometimes viewed as a primary reason for apparent wave function collapse, consciousness may account for aspects of the measurement problem exemplified by the Schrödinger's cat paradox. This area has been an area of lively debate for decades, with recent efforts to substitute randomly caused decoherence as the source of apparent wave function collapse.\n\nMax Tegmark and John Archibald Wheeler provided a useful survey of some of the issues.\n\nTo most philosophers, the word \"consciousness\" connotes the relationship between the mind and the world. To writers on spiritual or religious topics, it frequently connotes the relationship between the mind and God, or the relationship between the mind and deeper truths that are thought to be more fundamental than the physical world. Krishna consciousness, for example, is a term used to mean an intimate linkage between the mind of a worshipper and the god Krishna. The mystical psychiatrist Richard Maurice Bucke distinguished between three types of consciousness: 'Simple Consciousness', awareness of the body, possessed by many animals; 'Self Consciousness', awareness of being aware, possessed only by humans; and 'Cosmic Consciousness', awareness of the life and order of the universe, possessed only by humans who are enlightened. Many more examples could be given, such as the various levels of spiritual consciousness presented by Prem Saran Satsangi and Stuart Hameroff. The most thorough account of the spiritual approach may be Ken Wilber's book \"The Spectrum of Consciousness\", a comparison of western and eastern ways of thinking about the mind. Wilber described consciousness as a spectrum with ordinary awareness at one end, and more profound types of awareness at higher levels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18974217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18974217", "title": "Cookie Monster", "text": "Cookie Monster\n\nCookie Monster is a Muppet on the long-running children's television show \"Sesame Street.\" He is best known for his voracious appetite and his famous eating phrases, such as \"Me want cookie!\", \"Me eat cookie!\" (or simply \"COOKIE!\"), and \"Om nom nom nom\" (said through a mouth full of food). He eats almost anything, including normally inedible objects. However, as his name suggests, his preferred food is cookies. Chocolate chip cookies are his favorite kind. In a song in 2004, Cookie Monster revealed that, before he ate his first cookie, he believed his name was Sid or Sidney. Despite his voracious appetite for cookies, Cookie Monster shows awareness of healthy eating habits for young children and also enjoys fruits and eggplant.\n\nHe is known to have a mother, a younger sister, and an identically-designed cousin (who ironically does not like cookies), who all share his characteristic navy blue fur and \"googly eyes.\" He also has a father, who appeared in a \"Monsterpiece Theater\" sketch promoting energy conservation, water conservation and environmentalism. Both Cookie Monster's mother and father share his enormous appetite and craving for cookies. He and his \"Sesame Street\" friends are popular motifs on T-shirts.\n\nThe book \"Jim Henson's Designs and Doodles\" explains Cookie Monster's origin as follows: \"In 1966, Henson drew three monsters that ate cookies and appeared in a General Foods commercial that featured three crunchy snack foods: Wheels, Crowns and Flutes. Each snack was represented by a different monster. The Wheel-Stealer was a short, fuzzy monster with wonky eyes and sharply pointed teeth. The Flute-Snatcher was a speed demon with a long, sharp nose and windblown hair. The Crown-Grabber was a hulk of a monster with a Boris Karloff accent and teeth that resembled giant knitting needles.\"\n\n\"These monsters had insatiable appetites for the snack foods they were named after. Each time the Muppet narrator, a human-looking fellow, fixes himself a tray of Wheels, Flutes and Crowns, they disappear before he can eat them. One by one, the monsters sneak in and zoom away with the snacks. Frustrated and peckish, the narrator warns viewers that these pesky monsters could be disguised as someone in your own home, at which point the monsters briefly turn into people and then dissolve back to monsters again.\"\n\nAs it turns out, these commercials were never aired — but all three monsters had a future in the Muppet cast. The \"Crown-Grabber\" was used in a sketch on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", in which he ruins a girl's beautiful day. Known from then on as the Beautiful Day Monster, he made a number of appearances on \"Sesame Street\" and \"The Muppet Show\". The \"Flute-Snatcher\" turned into Snake Frackle, a background monster from \"The Great Santa Claus Switch\" and \"The Muppet Show\".\n\nIn 1967, Henson used the \"Wheel-Stealer\" puppet for an IBM training film called \"Coffee Break Machine\". In the sketch, called \"The Computer Dinner\", the monster (with frightening eyes and fangs) devours a complex coffee making machine as it describes its different parts. When he is finished, the machine announces the monster has activated the machine's anti-vandalism system, which contains the most powerful explosives known to man. The monster promptly explodes. This sketch was also performed in October, 1967 on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\". It was also later performed on the George Burns episode of \"The Muppet Show\"' using the Luncheon Counter Monster.\n\nTwo years later, Henson used a similarly-designed and equally ravenous monster for three commercials selling Munchos, a Frito-Lay potato chip. This time, the puppet was called Arnold, the Munching Monster. After the three ads were produced, Henson had the opportunity to renew the contract. He chose not to, because at that point he was working on \"Sesame Street\" — and that monster puppet was moving on to the next stage in his career. According to Frank Oz, in a later routine the then unnamed monster won a quiz show and for winning was \"given the choice of $10,000 cash, a new car, a trip to Hawaii, or a cookie.\" He took the cookie and from then on he was Cookie Monster.\n\nCookie Monster, still unnamed, made his \"Sesame Street\" debut in the first episode, interfering with Kermit the Frog's \"famous W lecture\" by eating a model \"W\" bit by bit. He turns it into an \"N,\" a \"V,\" and finally an \"I,\" to Kermit's frustration. He then tries to eat Kermit.\n\nIt was during the first season that Cookie Monster got his name and began using the growly vernacular (e.g., \"Me eat cookie!\") that would become part of his character. His signature song, \"C Is For Cookie\", was first aired during the 1971–72 season, and became one of the best-known songs from \"Sesame Street\".\n\nIn 2006, in response to growing concerns about record levels of childhood obesity in the United States, \"Sesame Street\" began airing segments titled Healthy Habits for Life. In these segments, the Muppet characters of \"Sesame Street\" talk about healthy habits, such as eating properly and exercising. The \"Healthy Habits for Life\" segments spawned Internet rumors that Cookie Monster's name had been changed to Veggie Monster or would be taken off the show entirely.\n\nIn a 2007 appearance on Martha Stewart's TV program, Cookie Monster explained his new philosophy that \"Cookies are a sometimes food.\"\n\nOn February 10, 2008, NPR host Elizabeth Blair interviewed Cookie Monster for the \"All Things Considered\" segment \"In Character\". He answered the Proust Questionnaire, as well as revealing some of his favorite and non-favorite things.\n\nIn a June 19, 2008, appearance on \"The Colbert Report\", Cookie Monster again explained that \"Cookies are a sometimes food.\" Colbert had asked agitatedly why Cookie Monster had \"abandoned the pro-cookie agenda\" and thus caused fruit to become the favorite snack of American children, according to a study Colbert had heard. Colbert criticized Cookie Monster for not wearing a cookie lapel pin. Cookie Monster also claimed to have \"crazy times during the '70s and '80s,\" referring to himself as \"the Robert Downey Jr. of cookies.\" After eating a cookie to prove he still likes cookies, Cookie Monster asked if the Peabody Award, a round medallion on a small pedestal, was a cookie. When Colbert returned to speak to Cookie Monster at the end of the show, the award had disappeared and Cookie Monster was wiping his mouth with a napkin.\n\nOn November 24, 2010, Cookie Monster started a Facebook page as part of a campaign to host \"Saturday Night Live\". Though his bid to host \"Saturday Night Live\" failed, he was allowed to appear with Jeff Bridges when Jeff hosted the show and sang the Christmas song \"Silver Bells\".\n\nMain performers\n\nAlternate performers\n\nDavid Rudman officially became Cookie Monster in \"Sesame Street's\" 2002 season (taped 2001), but the year before that, Rudman shared the part with Eric Jacobson, Frank Oz's primary successor. Once Jacobson was cast as Grover and Bert, Sesame Workshop chose Rudman as Cookie Monster to allow for more interaction between Cookie Monster and Bert/Grover. Frank Oz still performs Cookie Monster and his other \"Sesame Street\" characters a couple of times per year.\n\nVarious toys and other icons of the Cookie Monster have been produced over the years. The most obvious is a cookie jar, of which numerous types have been available.\n\nNumerous children's books featuring Cookie Monster have been published over the years:\n\n\nFamiliar to generations of \"Sesame Street\" watchers, Cookie Monster is remembered for his gluttony and his distinctive voice.\n\nIn 1990 U.S. Budget Director Richard Darman wrote an introduction to the federal budget with a section \"Green Eyeshades and the Cookie Monster\" in which he called Cookie \"the quintessential consumer,\" and the enormous budget \"the Ultimate Cookie Monster.\"\nIn the Food Network program \"Good Eats\" episode \"Three Chips for Sister Marsha\" (first aired December 13, 2000), a puppet named Maj. Wilfred D. Cookie who looks like a green version of Cookie Monster appears. Asked about his well-known \"brother\", he responds, \"I told you never to mention that ruffian. All he knows about cookies is how to shovel them into his face.\" In the Fox animated series \"Family Guy\" episode \"Model Misbehavior\", Cookie Monster is shown in a psychiatric hospital, repeatedly foiling drug rehab-styled efforts to cure his cookie addiction.\n\nTrekkie Monster in \"Avenue Q\" is loosely based on Cookie Monster.\n\nJohn Lennon's song \"Hold On,\" recorded in 1970 (only a year after \"Sesame Street\" debuted), features Lennon shouting \"Cookie!\" in Cookie Monster's voice, in the middle of the instrumental break in an otherwise calm, quiet song.\n\nThe guttural singing style in death metal bands is commonly (if facetiously) compared to Cookie Monster's low-pitched, gravelly voice.\n\nIn the \"Family Guy\" episode \"Back to the Pilot\", due to alterations in the past, Stewie thinks Cookie Monster could have invented Facebook; in this timeline, he would have called it \"Cookiebook\". In \"The Empire Strikes Back\" spoof \"Something, Something, Something, Dark Side\", Cookie Monster is cast as the Wampa.\n\nIn another sci-fi related takeoff, the \"Star Wars\" spoof \"Hardware Wars\" features \"Chewchilla the Wookiee Monster\" in the role of Chewbacca.\n\nCookie Monster also appears in \"MAD\", first in \"Mouse M.D\", a parody of \"House M.D.\", then as the main character in \"Cookie Blue,\" a parody of \"Rookie Blue\".\n\nWhen the Apple personal assistant Siri is asked the question, \"what is zero divided by zero,\" she responds with the answer: \"Imagine that you have zero cookies and you split them evenly among zero friends. How many cookies does each person get? See? It doesn’t make sense. And Cookie Monster is sad that there are no cookies, and you are sad that you have no friends.\"\n\nOn March 16, 2016, Apple released an ad titled \"Timer\" starring Cookie Monster, where he uses the \"Hey Siri\" feature in the iPhone 6S to set a timer and play an album while he waits for cookies to bake.\n\nA popular internet parody of \"The Great Wave off Kanagawa\", titled \"Sea is for Cookie\", was created for a Reddit Adobe Photoshop competition. The piece features the wave with googly eyes and cookies in the crest, resembling Cookie Monster eating cookies.\n\n\nThis article incorporates Creative Commons license CC-BY SA 3.0 text from the Muppet Wiki article \"Cookie Monster\".\n"}
{"id": "27282996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27282996", "title": "Death of Kaja Ballo", "text": "Death of Kaja Ballo\n\nKaja Bordevich Ballo (1988 – March 28, 2008) was a university student in the French town of Nice; her father was Olav Gunnar Ballo, a member of the Norwegian Parliament. On March 28, 2008 Kaja Ballo took the personality test run by the Church of Scientology, and committed suicide later the same day. Family and friends stated that Ballo was happy prior to taking the test, and that her mood dramatically shifted after receiving the results. She committed suicide hours after getting the results of the test back; Ballo jumped from the fourth floor of her dorm room. In addition to a note, her family found the Scientology personality test among her belongings. French police investigated connections between Scientology and Ballo's death, and interviewed two leaders of the organization in France. Prosecutors stated in December 2008 that they were unable to establish a causative link between the Scientology test and Ballo's death.\n\nA Scientology representative in France asserted that the Scientology personality test was not created by the Church of Scientology, and that it was not related to Ballo's death. The Church of Scientology's information chief in Norway, Matthias Fosse stated that the test was not dangerous and that the organization did not bear any responsibility for Ballo's death. Ballo's father retained a lawyer to investigate his daughter's death, and the family considered filing a lawsuit against Scientology. 500 people attended Ballo's funeral on April 11, 2008 at Grefsen Church in Oslo, Norway.\n\nThe incident received significant media coverage in Norway, and \"Verdens Gang\" and \"Dagbladet\" devoted multiple cover stories to investigating the controversy. The media faced criticism for its extensive coverage of Ballo's death. Norway parliament member Inga Marte Thorkildsen commented that she thought indications were that Scientology had a role in Ballo's suicide. Psychologist Rudy Myrvang told \"Aftenposten\" that the Scientology personality test was designed to break down an individual; he characterized the test as a form of recruitment tool for the organization. Scientology critic Andreas Heldal-Lund stated parents of those involved in Scientology contacted him with similar concerns. The Norwegian Psychological Association warned individuals against taking such types of personality tests.\n\nBallo's father wrote a book about his daughter's death, and refrained from interviews with the press until the book was published in 2009. Titled Kaja: 1988–2008, the book became a bestseller in Norway. It reached second place on the bestseller list of the Bestseller Association in Norway for general literature, in May 2009. The author stated he wrote the book as an expository method to both process his grief, inform his family about the controversy, and educate the public about suicide.\n\nKaja Bordevich Ballo was the daughter of Olav Gunnar Ballo, a member of the Norwegian Parliament. Her stepmother was Heidi Sørensen, a former member of the Norwegian Parliament, and State Secretary in the Ministry of the Environment.\n\nKaja Ballo took a personality test given by the Church of Scientology in Nice, France on March 28, 2008. The test is known either as the Scientology personality test, or as Oxford Capacity Analysis. The testing location was situated close to her residential area in student housing, in a nearby storefront shopping facility. It was located only a few meters from her dormitory. According to representatives for Scientology, Ballo spent a total of one hour at the facility. She received a negative result from the test. It indicated that some of her responses were situated on what is referred to in Scientology as \"an unacceptable level\". The test consists of 200 questions. Ballo missed 100 points on the test, and this was seen as \"unstable\". The Scientology test stated she had a \"very limited\" IQ.\n\nBallo's friends and family members said that her mood \"changed\" after receiving the results. Family said she had not indicated any problems prior to taking the test. Ballo's uncle Heljar Ballo stated on a program on public broadcaster NRK that the results of the Scientology personality test were \"devastating\" to her. He served as a spokesperson for the family during an intense period of their grief. He described her as \"happy and bubbly\", prior to taking the Scientology test. Heljar Ballo stated, \"We can only relate the facts, that she was doing well in France, was happy and had many good friends, and that she took this test.\"\n\nBallo committed suicide, hours after hearing the results of the personality test conducted by Scientology. She jumped from the fourth floor of her dorm room in Nice, France, two hours after getting the results of the test. She left behind a note, along with the results of the Scientology personality test. The results of the personality test were found among her belongings by her family. In April 2008, \"Aftenposten\" noted that the French police were investigating connections between Scientology and Ballo's death. The investigation was being headed by a judge in France. In April 2008 the French police interviewed two leaders of Scientology in France. Prosecutor Eric de Montgolfier opened an investigation into the incident in France, in April 2008. A French investigating prosecutor told \"Dagbladet\", \"We are almost convinced that it is a suicide. But the question is whether something encouraged her to this.\" Prosecutors stated in December 2008 that they could not determine a direct link between the Scientology personality test and Ballo's death.\nAgnes Bron, a Scientology representative in France, denied that the test was related to Ballo's death, and asserted that the Scientology personality test was not created by the Church of Scientology. Scientologists pay royalties to the Hubbard Foundation for use of the test. She said that Ballo never actually received the results of her personality test. A spokesperson for Scientology asserted to \"Verdens Gang\" that the results of the personality test are seen as neither positive nor negative, but rather allow the individual to gain insight into their own personality. A representative of Scientology in Norway described the concerns leveled against the organization as \"deeply unfair\". The Scientology official noted Ballo had a psychological history as a teenager, and said she had an eating disorder. The Church of Scientology's Information Chief in Norway, Matthias Fosse, asserted that the Scientology personality test was not \"dangerous\", and stated that \"millions\" of individuals had partaken in the examination. He asserted that approximately 10,000 residents of Norway had taken the test. \"I have never, never, never heard of someone who has killed on the basis of the OCA test,\" said Fosse. Fosse said that Ballo had entered the Scientology premises in Nice of her own volition. Fosse maintained that the negative views of the organization were based on ignorance and intolerance. \"I feel deeply for the Ballo family, but it is a rude insinuation that the Church of Scientology has any responsibility for this incident,\" said Fosse.\n\nBallo's father was critical of the statements made by Fosse about his daughter's history. He commented to \"Verdens Gang\" that the Church of Scientology was negatively impacting the reputation of his daughter and not respecting the privacy of her health history. He did not wish to comment regarding the nature of the investigation in France. Ballo's uncle Heljar Ballo explained that Kaja Ballo's family decided to come forward with information to the media about her suicide, due to a motivation to publicize information relating to the circumstances of her death. Heljar Ballo told \"Aftenposten\" that the family \"had confidence\" in the investigation by local law enforcement in France. He thought there was a connection between her death and Scientology. Kaja Ballo's father retained an attorney to investigate his daughter's death. In April 2008, Ballo's family was considering taking legal action against Scientology. Kaja Ballo was interred on April 11, 2008 at Grefsen Church in Oslo, and approximately 500 people were present at the funeral ceremony.\n\nIn reporting on Ballo's death, \"United Press International\" noted, \"Critics say the break-you-down-build-you-up recruitment tool of Scientologists is controversial.\" The issue received a significant amount of coverage in Norway news publications; and media attention focused criticism on the Church of Scientology. Both \"Verdens Gang\" and \"Dagbladet\" devoted several cover stories investigating the matter. News media received criticism regarding the amount of coverage given to the incident. A representative of the National Association for Suicide Survivors in Norway regarded it as excessive. News editor of \"Dagbladet\", Peter Raaum, defended the amount of news coverage given to the incident: \"We write about this because the survivor has made criticism of the Scientology test that Kaja took just before she took her life. The family wanted a debate about this. What makes this so important is this test. What kind of test is this? Is it so reprehensible, and significant to what happened? If it is, I mean it's something that's extremely important to focus on.\" Ballo's family agreed to discuss the incident with the media. In an interview Ballo's father said he did not have issues with the case being front-page news in newspapers.\n\nNorway parliament member Inga Marte Thorkildsen weighed in on the situation, and stated to the Oslo, Norway newspaper \"Dagbladet\", \"All indications are that the Scientologist sect has played a direct role in Kaja's choice to take her own life.\" Ballo's friend and study partner Henry Møinichen told \"Dagbladet\", \"I think Kaja would be alive today if she had not gone to the Scientologists.\" Psychologist Rudy Myrvang told \"Aftenposten\" that testing procedures such as the personality test conducted by Scientology could have negative consequences; he said the goal was focused on \"breaking you down, and then they'll offer to build you up again\". Myrvang characterized the Scientology personality test as a recruitment tactic for the organization. \"Dagbladet\" consulted an expert on the subject of assessment tests, Ole I. Iversen, who characterized the Scientology personality test as \"unethical and junk\".\n\nScientology critic Andreas Heldal-Lund stated that the Church of Scientology views candidates for the test as \"raw meat from the street\". \"You're told you're worth nothing,\" he said. Heldal-Lund stated that, \"thousands of desperate parents contact me because they have children who have had major mental problems, or taken their own life after similar circumstances to Kaja Ballo\". Scientology-associated celebrity, Hank Von Helvete, commented to the press that he thought psychiatry, not Scientology, was the cause of Ballo's suicide. \"TV 2\" reported that psychologists advised that subsequent to the personality test, there should be proper follow-up attention with the subject. In an analysis of personality tests available online on social networking sites, Norwegian Psychological Association department advisor Andreas Høstmælingen cited Kaja Ballo as \"an example of how wrong things can go\". The Norwegian Psychological Association warned individuals against taking such types of personality tests.\n\nBallo's father subsequently wrote a book about his daughter's suicide. He decided not to give interviews to the press about his ordeal until the book was published. He wanted to be able to tell the story and impact of his daughter's death, on his own terms. Titled, \"Kaja: 1988–2008\", the book explores the sequence of events that led to his daughter's death, from her time studying French in Nice. Her early history of psychiatric treatment is discussed in the book. He recounts the difficulties in getting information about his daughter's death from government authorities. According to the author, there was a slow response in receiving help from the Foreign Ministry of Norway. In an interview with \"Politiken\", he explained the motivation for writing the book: \"After the funeral I felt I had to do something relating to grief. This was my way to process the grief. The second issue was that I needed to transcribe the account to later tell my little daughter Oda.\" He also said, \"I wanted to contribute to greater openness about suicide.\" He acknowledged, \"Losing a child means that life is turned upside down. I believe that grief becomes heavier if you do not share it with anyone.\" The book was written with input from other family members.\n\n\"Kaja: 1988–2008\" became a bestseller in Norway. The book reached second place on the bestseller list of the Bestseller Association in Norway for general literature, in May 2009. \"Kaja: 1988–2008\" sparked renewed controversy over perceptions of Scientology activities in Norway. In a review of the book, \"Dagbladet\" noted that because the author was writing both as a private individual and as a physician, \"he is trained to look at the familiar and intimate with professionalism and distance.\" Upon the book's publication, representative Matthias Fosse of the Church of Scientology stated, \"Church of Scientology had absolutely nothing to do with this young woman's decision to take her own life. We are sorry for the loss the family has suffered, but this young woman was never a member of the Church of Scientology and never participated in any of the church activities.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8401973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8401973", "title": "Desmond Tutu", "text": "Desmond Tutu\n\nDesmond Mpilo Tutu (born 7 October 1931) is a South African Anglican cleric and theologian known for his work as an anti-apartheid and human rights activist. He was the Bishop of Johannesburg from 1985 to 1986 and then the Archbishop of Cape Town from 1986 to 1996, in both cases being the first indigenous black African to hold the position. Theologically, he sought to fuse ideas from black theology with African theology; politically, he identifies as a socialist.\n\nTutu was born of mixed Xhosa and Motswana heritage to a poor family in Klerksdorp, British Imperial South Africa. Entering adulthood, he trained as a teacher and married Nomalizo Leah Tutu, with whom he had several children. In 1960, he was ordained as an Anglican priest and in 1962 moved to the United Kingdom to study theology at King's College London. In 1966 he returned to southern Africa, teaching at the Federal Theological Seminary and then the University of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland. In 1972, he became the Theological Education Fund's director for Africa, a position based in London but necessitating regular tours of the African continent. Back in southern Africa in 1975, he served first as dean of St Mary's Cathedral in Johannesburg and then as Bishop of Lesotho, taking an active role in opposition to South Africa's apartheid system of racial segregation and white-minority rule. From 1978 to 1985 he was general-secretary of the South African Council of Churches, emerging as one of South Africa's most prominent anti-apartheid activists. Although warning the National Party government that apartheid would lead to racial violence, as an activist he stressed non-violent protest and foreign economic pressure to bring about change.\n\nIn 1985 he became Bishop of Johannesburg and in 1986 the Archbishop of Cape Town, the most senior position in southern Africa's Anglican hierarchy. In this position he emphasised a consensus-building model of leadership and oversaw the introduction of women priests. Also in 1986, he became president of the All Africa Conference of Churches, resulting in further tours of the continent. After President F. W. de Klerk released the anti-apartheid activist Nelson Mandela from prison in 1990 and the pair led negotiations to dissolve apartheid, Tutu assisted as a mediator between rival black factions. After the 1994 general election resulted in a coalition government headed by Mandela, the latter selected Tutu to chair the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate past human rights abuses committed by both pro and anti-apartheid groups. Since apartheid's fall, Tutu has campaigned for gay rights and spoken out on a wide range of subjects, among them the Israel-Palestine conflict, his opposition to the Iraq War, and his criticism of South African Presidents Thabo Mbeki and Jacob Zuma. In 2010, he retired from public life.\n\nTutu polarised opinion as he rose to notability in the 1970s. White conservatives who supported apartheid despised him, while many white liberals regarded him as too radical; many black radicals accused him of being too moderate and focused on cultivating white goodwill, while Marxist-Leninists criticised his anti-communist stance. He was widely popular among South Africa's black majority, and was internationally praised for his anti-apartheid activism, receiving a range of awards, including the Nobel Peace Prize. He has also compiled several books of his speeches and sermons.\n\nDesmond Mpilo Tutu was born on 7 October 1931 in Klerksdorp, a city in northwest South Africa. His mother, Allen Dorothea Mavoertsek Mathlare, was born to a Motswana family in Boksburg. His father, Zachariah Zelilo Tutu, was from the amaFengu branch of Xhosa and had grown up in Gcuwa, Eastern Cape. At home, the couple both spoke the Xhosa language. Zachariah trained as a primary school teacher at Lovedale college before taking a post in Boksburg, where he married his wife. In the late 1920s, he took a job in Klerksdorp; in the Afrikaaner-founded city, he and his wife resided in the black residential area. Established in 1907, it was then known as the \"native location\" although was later renamed Makoetend. The native location housed a diverse community; although most residents were Tswana, it also housed Xhosa, Sotho, and a few Indian traders. Zachariah worked as the principal of a Methodist primary school and the family lived in the schoolmaster's house, a small mud-brick building in the yard of the Methodist mission.\n\nThe Tutus were poor; describing his family, Tutu later related that \"although we weren't affluent, we were not destitute either\". Tutu had an older sister, Sylvia Funeka, who called him \"Mpilo\" (\"life\"), a name given to him by his paternal grandmother. The rest of the family called him \"Boy\". He was his parent's second son; their firstborn boy, Sipho, had died in infancy. Another daughter, Gloria Lindiwe, would be born after him. Tutu was sickly from birth; polio resulted in the atrophy of his right hand, and on one occasion he was hospitalised with serious burns. Tutu had a close relationship with his father, although was angered at the latter's heavy drinking, during which he would sometimes beat his wife. The family were initially Methodists and Tutu was baptised into the Methodist Church in June 1932. They subsequently changed denominations, first to the African Methodist Episcopal Church and then to the Anglican Church.\n\nIn 1936, the family moved to Tshing, where Zachariah was employed as the principal of a Methodist school; they lived in a hut in the school yard. There, Tutu started his primary education and played football with the other children, also becoming the server at St Francis Anglican Church. He developed a love of reading, particularly enjoying comic books and European fairy tales. Here, he also learned Afrikaans, the main language of the area. It was in Tshing that his parents had a third son, Tamsanqa, who also died in infancy. Around 1941, Tutu's mother moved to Witwatersrand to work as a cook at Ezenzeleni, an institute for the blind in western Johannesburg. Tutu joined her in the city, first living with an aunt in Roodepoort West before they secured their own house in the township. In Johannesburg, he attended a Methodist primary school before transferring to the Swedish Boarding School (SBS) in the St Agnes Mission. Several months later, he moved with his father to Ermelo, eastern Transvaal. After six months, the duo returned to live with the rest of the family in Roodepoort West, where Tutu resuming his studies at SBS. He had pursued his interest in Christianity and at the age of 12 underwent confirmation at St Mary's Church, Roodepoort.\n\nTutu failed the arithmetic component of his primary school exam, but despite this, his father secured him entry to the Johannesburg Bantu High School in 1945, where he excelled academically. There, he joined a school rugby team, developing a lifelong love of the sport. Outside of school, he earned money selling oranges and as a caddie for white golfers. To avoid the expense of a daily train commute to school, he briefly lived with family nearer to Johannesburg, before moving back in with his parents when they relocated to Munsieville. He then returned to Johannesburg by moving into a hostel that was part of the Anglican complex surrounding the Church of Christ the King in Sophiatown. He became a server at the church and came under the influence of its priest, Trevor Huddleston; later biographer Shirley du Boulay suggested that Huddleston was \"the greatest single influence\" in Tutu's life. In 1947, Tutu contracted tuberculosis and was hospitalised in Rietfontein for 18 months, during which he spent much of his time reading and was regularly visited by Huddleston. In the hospital, he underwent a circumcision to mark his transition to manhood. He returned to school in 1949 and took his national exams in late 1950, gaining a second-class pass.\n\nWanting to become a doctor, Tutu secured admission to study medicine at the University of the Witwatersrand; however, his parents could not afford the tuition fees. Instead, he turned toward teaching, gaining a government scholarship to start a course at Pretoria Bantu Normal College, a teacher training institution, in 1951. There, he served as treasurer of the Student Representative Council, helped to organise the Literacy and Dramatic Society, and chaired the Cultural and Debating Society for two years. It was during one local debating event that he first met the lawyer—and future president of South Africa—Nelson Mandela; the latter did not remember the meeting and they would not encounter each other again until 1990. At the college, Tutu attained his Transvaal Bantu Teachers Diploma, having gained advice about taking exams from the activist Robert Sobukwe. He had also taken five correspondence courses provided by the University of South Africa (UNISA), graduating in the same class as future Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe.\n\nIn 1954, he began teaching English at Madibane High School; the following year, he transferred to the Krugersdorp High School, where he taught English and history. He began courting Nomalizo Leah Shenxane, a friend of his sister Gloria who was studying to become a primary school teacher. They were legally married at Krugersdorp Native Commissioner's Court in June 1955, before undergoing a Roman Catholic wedding ceremony at the Church of Mary Queen of Apostles; although he was an Anglican, Tutu had agreed to the ceremony due to Leah's Roman Catholic faith. The newly married couple initially lived in a room at Tutu's parental home before renting their own home six months later. Their first child, Trevor, was born in April 1956; their first daughter, Thandeka, appeared 16 months later. The couple worshipped at St Paul's Church, where Tutu volunteered as a Sunday school teacher, assistant choirmaster, church councillor, lay preacher, and sub-deacon, while outside of the church he also volunteered as a football administrator for a local team.\n\nIn 1953, the white-minority National Party government had introduced the Bantu Education Act as a means of furthering their apartheid system of racial segregation and white domination; both Tutu and his wife disliked these reforms and decided to leave the teaching profession. With Huddleston's support, Tutu left the teaching profession to become an Anglican priest. In January 1956, his request to join the Ordinands Guild was turned down due to the debts he had accrued; these were then paid off by the wealthy industrialist and philanthropist Harry Oppenheimer. Tutu was admitted to St Peter's Theological College in Rosettenville, Johannesburg, which was run by the Anglican Community of the Resurrection. The college was residential, and Tutu lived there while his wife moved to train as a nurse in Sekhukhuneland and his children lived with his parents in Munsieville. In August 1960, his wife gave birth to another daughter, Naomi.\n\nAt the college, Tutu studied the Bible, Anglican doctrine, church history, and Christian ethics, earning a Licentiate of Theology degree. The college's principal, Godfrey Pawson, wrote that Tutu \"has exceptional knowledge and intelligence and is very industrious. At the same time he shows no arrogance, mixes in well and is popular... He has obvious gifts of leadership.\" He won the archbishop's annual essay prize for his discussion of Christianity and Islam. During his years at the college, there had been an intensification in anti-apartheid activism in South Africa, accompanied by a growing government crackdown on this dissent; in March 1960 several hundred casualties resulted from the Sharpeville massacre. Tutu and his other trainees did not mobilise in support of the anti-apartheid movement; he later noted that \"we were in some ways a very apolitical bunch\".\n\nIn December 1960, Edward Paget ordained Tutu as an Anglican minister at St Mary's Cathedral. Tutu was then appointed assistant curate in St Alban's Parish, Benoni, where he was reunited with his wife and children; they lived in a converted garage. He earned 72.50 rand a month, which was two-thirds of what his white counterparts were given. In 1962, Tutu was transferred to St Philip's Church in Thokoza, where he was placed in charge of the congregation and developed a passion for pastoral ministry. Many in South Africa's white-dominated Anglican establishment felt the need for a greater number of indigenous Africans in positions of ecclesiastical authority; to assist in this, Aelfred Stubbs proposed that Tutu be trained as a theology teacher at King's College London (KCL) in Britain. Funding was secured from the International Missionary Council's Theological Education Fund (TEF), and the government agreed to give the Tutus permission to move to Britain. They duly did so in September 1962. \n\nAt KCL's theology department, Tutu studied under theologians like Dennis Nineham, Christopher Evans, Sydney Evans, Geoffrey Parrinden, and Eric Mascall. In London, the Tutus felt liberated experiencing a life free from apartheid and the pass laws of South Africa; he later noted that \"there is racism in England, but we were not exposed to it\". He was also impressed by the freedom of speech available in the country, especially that at Speakers' Corner. The family moved into the curate's flat behind the Church of St Alban the Martyr in Golders Green; they were allowed to live rent-free on the condition that Tutu assisted Sunday services, the first time that he had ministered to a white congregation. It was in the flat that a daughter, Mpho Andrea, was born in 1963. Tutu was academically successful and his tutors suggested that he convert to an honours degree, which entailed him also studying Hebrew. He received his degree from Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother in a ceremony held at the Royal Albert Hall.\n\nNearing the end of his bachelor of arts studies, he decided to continue on to a master's degree, securing a TEF grant to fund it; he studied for this degree from October 1965 until September 1966, completing his dissertation on Islam in West Africa. During this period, the family moved from Golders Green to Bletchingley in Surrey, where Tutu worked as the assistant curate of St Mary's Church. In the village, he encouraged cooperation between his Anglican parishioners and the local Roman Catholic and Methodist communities. Tutu's time in London helped him to jettison any bitterness to whites and feelings of racial inferiority; he overcame his habit of automatically deferring to whites.\n\nIn 1966, the Tutus left the UK and travelled, via Paris and Rome, to East Jerusalem. Spending two months in the city, Tutu studied Arabic and Greek at St George's College. He was shocked at the level of tension between the city's Jewish and Arab citizens. From there, the family returned to South Africa, spending Christmas with family in Witwatersrand. They found it difficult readjusting to a society where they were impacted by segregation and pass laws. He explored the possibility on conducting a PhD at UNISA, on the subject of Moses in the Quran, but this project never materialised. In 1967 they proceeded to Alice, Eastern Cape, where the Federal Theological Seminary (Fedsem) had recently been established, an amalgamation of training institutions from different Christian denominations. There, Tutu was employed teaching doctrine, the Old Testament, and Greek. Tutu was the college's first black staff-member, with most of the others being European or American expatriates. The campus allowed a level of racial-mixing which was absent in most of South African society. Leah also gained employment there, as a library assistant. They sent their children to a private boarding school in Swaziland, thereby ensuring that they were not instructed under the government's Bantu Education syllabus.\n\nWhile at St Peter's, Tutu had also joined a pan-Protestant group, the Church Unity Commission, and served as a delegate at Anglican-Catholic conversations in southern Africa. It was also at this point that he began publishing in academic journals and journals of current affairs.\nTutu was also appointed as the Anglican chaplain to the neighbouring University of Fort Hare. In an unusual move for the time, he invited female students to become servers during the Eucharist alongside their male counterparts. He joined Anglican student delegations to meetings of the Anglican Students' Federation and the University Christian Movement. It was from this environment that the Black Consciousness Movement emerged under the leadership of figures like Steve Biko and Barney Pityana; although not averse to working with other racial groups to fight apartheid, as the exponents of Black Consciousness often were, Tutu was supportive of the movement's efforts. In August 1968, he gave a sermon comparing the situation in South Africa with that in the Eastern Bloc, likening anti-apartheid protests to the recent Prague Spring. In September, Fort Hare students held a sit-in protest at the university administration's policies; after they were surrounded by police with dogs, Tutu waded into the crowd to pray with the protesters. This was the first time that he had witnessed state power used to suppress dissent, and he cried during public prayers the next day.\n\nAlthough plans were afoot for Tutu to become Vice Principal of Fedsem, he decided to leave the seminary to accept a teaching post at the University of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland (UBLS) in Roma, Lesotho. The new position allowed him to live closer to his children and offered twice the salary he earned at Fedsem. In January 1970, he and his wife moved to the UBLS campus; most of his fellow staff members were white expatriates from the U.S. or Britain although the university's policy was non-racial and inclusive. As well as his teaching position, he also became the college's Anglican chaplain and the warden of two student residences. In Lesotho, he joined the executive board of the Lesotho Ecumenical Association and served as an external examiner for both Fedsem and Rhodes University. He returned to South Africa on several occasions, including to visit his father shortly before the latter's death in February 1971.\n\nThe TEF offered Tutu a job as their director for Africa, a position that would require relocating to London. Tutu agreed, although was initially refused permission to leave by the South African authorities; they regarded him with suspicion ever since his involvement in the Fort Hare student protests and were also increasingly antagonistic toward the WCC, which ran the TEF, bceause it had condemned apartheid as un-Christian. After Tutu insisted that taking the position would be good publicity for South Africa, the authorities relented. In March 1972, he returned to Britain. The TEF's headquarters were in Bromley, a town in the southeast of the city, with the Tutu family settling in nearby Grove Park, where Tutu became honorary curate of St Augustine's Church.\n\nTutu's job entailed assessing grants to theological training institutions and students. This required him touring much of Africa in the early 1970s, and he wrote accounts of his experiences. In Zaire, he for instance lamented the widespread corruption and poverty, while complaining that Mobutu Sese Seko's \"military regime... is extremely galling to a black from South Africa\". In Nigeria, he first witnessed the interaction between Christians and Muslims in real life, and expressed concern at the Igbo people's resentment following the crushing of their Republic of Biafra. In 1972 he travelled around East Africa, where he was impressed by Jomo Kenyatta's Kenyan government and witnessed Idi Amin's expulsion of Ugandan Asians. Back in England, he experienced one of his only racist encounters in the country when a stranger told him \"You bastard, get back to Uganda\", mistaking him for a Ugandan Asian refugee. He also acknowledged that he retained his own subconscious anti-black racist thoughts; when on a Nigerian plane, he felt a \"nagging worry\" on discovering that both pilot and co-pilot were black, having been conditioned to thinking that only whites could be entrusted with such positions of responsibility.\n\nDuring the early 1970s, Tutu's theology fundamentally changed as a result both of his experiences in Africa and his discovery of liberation theology, a term coined in 1971 by the Peruvian priest Gustavo Gutiérrez and introduced to Tutu by the TEF's associate director for Latin America, Aharon Sapsezian. On discovering black theology, he had been immediately attracted to it, in 1973 attending a conference on the subject at New York City's Union Theological Seminary. There, he presented a paper in which he stated that \"black theology is an engaged not an academic, detached theology. It is a gut level theology, relating to the real concerns, the life and death issues of the black man.\" He stated that his paper was not an attempt to demonstrate the academic respectability of black theology but rather to make \"a straightforward, perhaps shrill, statement about an existent. Black theology is. No permission is being requested for it to come into being... Frankly the time has passed when we will wait for the white man to give us permission to do our thing. Whether or not he accepts the intellectual respectability of our activity is largely irrelevant. We will proceed regardless.\" Tutu sought to fuse the African-American derived black theology with African theology, an approach which contrasted with that of other African theologians like John Mbiti who regarded black theology as a foreign import not relevant to the African situation.\n\nIn 1975, Tutu was nominated to be the new Bishop of Johannesburg, although lost out to Timothy Bavin. Bavin suggested that Tutu take his newly vacated position, that of the dean of St Mary's Cathedral, Johannesburg. Tutu was elected to this position—the fourth highest in South Africa's Anglican hierarchy—in March 1975, becoming the first black man to do so, an appointment making headline news in South Africa. Tutu decided to return to South Africa, a decision opposed by Leah, resulting in a strain on their marriage. Tutu was officially installed as dean in an August 1975 ceremony. The cathedral was packed for the event; in attendance was the TEF's chairman, Archibishop Karekin Sarkissian of the Armenian Orthodox Church. Moving to the city, Tutu lived not in the official dean's residence in the white suburb of Houghton but rather in a house on a middle-class street in the Orlando West township of Soweto, a largely impoverished area for blacks. The cathedral's congregation was racially mixed but with a white majority; this mixing gave Tutu hope that a racially equal, de-segregated future was possible for South Africa. He attempted to modernise the liturgies used by the cathedral's congregation although found that this was not desired by most. He also divided opinion among the congregation for his support of the ordination of women and for replacing masculine pronouns with gender neutral ones in his sermons and liturgy.\n\nTutu used his position to speak out about what he regarded as social injustice. He met with Black Consciousness Movement figures like Mamphela Ramphele and Soweto community leaders like Nthano Motlana, and publicly endorsed international economic boycott of South Africa over its apartheid policy. He opposed the government's Terrorism Act, 1967 and shared a platform with anti-apartheid campaigner Winnie Mandela in condemning it. He held a 24-hour vigil for racial harmony at the cathedral where he included special prayers for those activists detained under the act. In May 1976, he wrote a letter to Prime Minister B. J. Vorster, urging him to dismantle apartheid and warning that if the government continued enforcing this policy then the country would erupt in racial violence. Six weeks later, the Soweto Uprising broke out as black youth protesting the introduction of Afrikaans as the mandatory language of instruction clashed with police. Over the course of ten months, at least 660 were killed, the majority of them under the age of 24. Tutu was upset by what he regarded as the lack of outrage from South Africa's white community; he raised the issue in his Sunday sermon, stating that the white silence was \"deafening\" and asking if they would have shown the same nonchalance had the school children killed by police and pro-government paramilitaries been white.\n\nTutu had been scheduled to serve a seven-year term as dean, however after seven months he was nominated as a candidate in an election for the position of Bishop of Lesotho. Although Tutu stipulated that he did not want the position, he was elected to the position regardless in March 1976, at which he reluctantly accepted it. This decision upset some of his congregation, who felt that he had used their parish as a stepping stone for his personal career advancement. In July, Bill Burnett consecrated Tutu as a bishop at St Mary's Cathedral. In August, Tutu was enthroned as the Bishop of Lesotho in a ceremony at Maseru's Cathedral of St Mary and St James; thousands attended, including King Moshoeshoe II and Prime Minister Leabua Jonathan. In this position, he travelled around the diocese, often visiting parishes in the mountains. He learned the Sesotho language and developed a deep affection for the country. He appointed Philip Mokuku as the first dean of the diocese and placed great emphasis on further education for the Basotho clergy. He befriended the royal family although his relationship with Jonathan's right-wing government, of which he disapproved, was strained. In September 1977 he returned to South Africa after being invited to speak at the Eastern Cape funeral of Black Consciousness activist Steve Biko, who had been killed by police while in their custody. At the funeral, Tutu stated that Black Consciousness was \"a movement by which God, through Steve, sought to awaken in the black person a sense of his intrinsic value and worth as a child of God\".\n\nAfter John Rees stepped down as general secretary of the South African Council of Churches, Tutu was among the nominees for his successor. John Thorne was ultimately elected to the position, although stepped down from the position after three months. Tutu was nominated once more, this time being selected. Tutu was unsure whether to accept, but agreed to do so at the urging of the synod of bishops. His decision angered many Anglicans in Lesotho, who felt that Tutu was abandoning them. Tutu took charge of the SACC in March 1978. Returning to Johannesburg—where the SACC's headquarters were based at Khotso House—the Tutus returned to their former Orlando West home, now bought for them by an anonymous foreign donor. Leah gained employment as the assistant director of the Institute of Race Relations.\n\nTutu was the SACC's first black leader, and at the time, the SACC was one of the only Christian institutions in South Africa where black people had the majority representation. There, he introduced a schedule of daily staff prayers, regular Bible study, monthly Eucharist, and silent retreats. He also developed a new style of leadership, appointing senior staff who were capable of taking the initiative, delegating much of the SACC's detailed work to them, and keeping in touch with them through meetings and memorandums. Many of his staff referred to him as \"Baba\" (father). He was determined that the SACC become one of South Africa's most visible human rights advocacy organisations, a course which would anger the government. His efforts gained him international recognition; in 1978 Kings College London elected him a fellow while the University of Kent and General Theological Seminary gave him honorary doctorates; the following year Harvard University also gave him an honorary doctorate.\n\nAs head of the SACC, Tutu's time was dominated by fundraising efforts, particularly attempts to secure funds from overseas to pay for the organisation's various projects. While Tutu was in charge of the SACC, it was revealed that one of its divisional director's had been stealing funds. In November 1981 an all-white government commission was launched to investigate the issue, headed by the judge C. F. Eloff. Tutu gave evidence to the commission, during which he criticised apartheid as \"evil\" and \"unchristian\". When the Eloff report was published, Tutu criticised it, focusing particularly on the absence of any theologians on its board, likening it to \"a group of blind men\" judging the Chelsea Flower Show. Tutu also missed pastoral work, and in 1981 also became the rector of St Augustine's Church in Soweto's Orlando West. He also began collecting some of his sermons and speeches, publishing them in a collection titled \"Crying in the Wilderness: The Struggle for Justice in South Africa\" in 1982. This was followed by another collected volume, \"Hope and Suffering\", in 1984.\n\nDuring this period, he testified on behalf of a captured cell of the Umkhonto we Sizwe, an armed anti-apartheid group linked to the banned African National Congress (ANC). He stated that although he was committed to non-violence and censured those on all sides who used violence, he could understand why other black Africans would turn towards it when all their non-violent tactics had proved fruitless in overturning apartheid. In an earlier address, he had expressed the view that an armed struggle against the South African government had little chance of succeeding but also called out Western nations for hypocrisy, noting that they were condemning armed liberation groups in southern Africa while they had praised armed liberation groups operating in Europe during the Second World War.\n\nAfter Tutu told Danish journalists that he supported an international economic boycott of South Africa, he was called before two government ministers to be reprimanded in October 1979. In March 1980, the government confiscated his passport, an act which raised his international profile and brought condemnations from the US State Department and senior Anglicans like Robert Runcie. Tutu also signed a petition calling for the released of Mandela, an imprisoned anti-apartheid activist; Mandela's freedom was not yet an international \"cause célèbre\". This led to a correspondence between the two men. In 1980, the SACC committed itself to supporting civil disobedience against South Africa's racial laws. After Thorne was arrested in May, Tutu and Joe Wing led a march of protest, during which they were arrested by riot police, imprisoned overnight, and fined. The authorities confiscated Tutu's passport. In the aftermath of the incident, a meeting was organised between 20 church leaders, including Tutu, and Botha and seven government ministers. At this August meeting the clerical leaders unsuccessfully urged the government to dismantle the apartheid laws. Some of the clergy saw this dialogue with the government as pointless, but Tutu disagreed, noting that \"Moses went to Pharaoh repeatedly to secure the release of the Israelites\".\n\nIn January 1981, the government returned Tutu's passport to him. In March, he embarked on a five-week visit to ten countries in Europe and North America, meeting politicians including the UN Secretary General Kurt Waldheim, and addressing the UN Special Committee Against Apartheid. In the UK, he met Runcie gave a sermon in Westminster Abbey, while in Rome he spent a few minutes with Pope John Paul II. On his return to South Africa, Botha again ordered his passport confiscated, preventing Tutu from personally collecting several further honorary degrees. It was returned to him 17 months later. In September 1982 he addressed the Triennial Convention of the Episcopal Church in New Orleans before traveling to Kentucky to see his daughter Naomi, who lived there with her American husband. He was troubled that President Ronald Reagan adopted a warmer relationship with the South African government than his predecessor Jimmy Carter, relating that Reagan's government was \"an unmitigated disaster for us blacks\". Tutu gained a popular following in the US, where he was often compared to civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., although white conservatives like Patrick Buchanan and Jerry Falwell lambasted him as an alleged communist sympathiser.\n\nBy the 1980s, Tutu had become an icon for many black South Africans, his stature among them rivalled only by Mandela. In August 1983, South Africans opposed to apartheid formed the United Democratic Front (UDF), with Tutu selected as one of the organisation's patrons. Conversely, he angered the government as well as much of the press and white public. Most of his critics were conservative whites who did not want apartheid to end. He was criticised in pro-government press outlets like \"The Citizen\" and the South African Broadcasting Corporation, with this criticism often centring on how his middle-class lifestyle contrasted with the poverty of the blacks he claimed to represent. He received hate mail as well as death threats from white far-right white groups like the Wit Wolwe. His rhetoric of angry defiance against the government alienated many white liberals, who believed that apartheid could be gradually reformed away; among the white liberals who publicly criticised Tutu were Alan Paton and Bill Burnett. He nevertheless remained close with other prominent white liberals like Helen Suzman.\n\nIn 1984, Tutu embarked on a three-month sabbatical leave at the General Theological Seminary of the Episcopal Church in New York. In the city, he was invited to address the United Nations Security Council in October, and in December he met the Congressional Black Caucus and the subcommittees on Africa in the House of Representatives and the Senate, urging them to put pressure on South Africa. He was also invited to the White House to visit President Ronald Reagan; he urged Reagan to change his approach to the South African government although was unsuccessful. Referring to Reagan's decision to put Cold War alliances before the rights of black South Africans, Tutu later described Reagan as \"a racist pure and simple\".\n\nIt was while in New York that Tutu was informed that he had won the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize; he had previously been nominated in 1981, 1982, and 1983. When the Nobel Prize selection committee met to decide 1984's award, they agreed that it should go to a South African to recognise the problems in that country, deciding that Tutu would be a less controversial choice than other South African nominees Mandela and Mangosuthu Buthelezi. Tutu travelled to London, where he gave a public statement dedicating his award to \"the little people\" in South Africa. In December, he attended the award ceremony in Oslo—which was hampered by a bomb scare—before returning home via Sweden, Denmark, Canada, Tanzania, and Zambia. He shared the $192,000 prize money with his family, SACC staff, and a scholarship fund for South Africans in exile. He was the second South African to receive the award, after Albert Luthuli in 1960. The South African government and mainstream media either downplayed or criticised the award, while the Organisation of African Unity hailed it as evidence of apartheid's impending demise.\n\nAfter Bavin retired as Bishop of Johannesburg, Tutu was among five candidates considered as his replacement. An elective assembly met at St Barnabas' College in October 1984 and although Tutu was one of the two most popular candidates, the white laity voting bloc consistently voted against his candidature. After a deadlock ensued, a bishops' synod was called to make the final decision; they decided to give the role to Tutu. Black Anglicans celebrated, although many of their white co-religionists were angry at the selection. Tutu was enthroned as the sixth Bishop of Johannesburg at a ceremony in St Mary's Cathedral in February 1985. He was the first black man to hold the role, and took over the largest diocese in South Africa, comprising 102 parishes and 300,000 Anglican parishioners, approximately 80% of whom were black. In his inaugural sermon, Tutu declared that he would call on the international community to introduce punitive economic sanctions against South Africa unless apartheid had not begun to be dismantled within 18 to 24 months. As bishop, he resigned as patron of the UDF.\n\nTutu sought to reassure white South Africans that he was not the \"horrid ogre\" some believed him to be, and as bishop he spent much time visiting white-majority parishes and wooing the support of white Anglicans in his diocese. Some white parishes had withdrawn their diocesan quota in protest at his appointment, but he was able to make up the shortfall by attracting foreign donations. \n\nIn the mid-1980s, there were an increasing number of clashes between angry black youths and the security services, resulting in a growing death toll; Tutu was invited to speak at many of their funerals, which attracted crowds of thousands. At a funeral in Duduza, he stepped in to prevent members of the crowd from killing a black man suspected to be a government informant. He spoke out against the torture and killing of suspected collaborators, angering some of those in the black community. For these young militants, Tutu and his calls for non-violence were perceived as an obstacle on the path to revolution; one young woman was quoted as saying that Tutu was \"too moderate for most of us, too much within the system\". When Tutu accompanied the U.S. politician Ted Kennedy on the latter's speaking tour of South Africa in January 1985, he was angered and humiliated that protesters from the Azanian People's Organisation (AZAPO)—who regarded Kennedy as an agent of capitalism and American imperialism—repeatedly disrupted proceedings.\n\nAmid the violence, the ANC called on black South Africans to make the country \"ungovernable\", while foreign companies increasingly disinvested in the country and the rand reached a record low. In July 1985, Botha declared a state of emergency in 36 magisterial districts, further suspending civil liberties and giving the security services additional powers; Tutu criticised this, and offered to serve as a go-between for the government and leading black organisations, but was rebuffed by the former. He also continued with his protests; in April 1985, Tutu led a small march of clergy through Johannesburg to protest the arrest of Reverend Geoff Moselane. In October 1985, he backed the National Initiative for Reconciliation's proposal for people to refrain from work and engage in a day of prayer, fasting and mourning. He also proposed a national strike against apartheid, angering trade unions whom he had not consulted about such an idea.\n\nTutu had continued to make foreign visits to promote his cause. In May he embarked on a speaking tour of the U.S., and in October 1985 addressed the political committee of the United Nations General Assembly urging that the international community impose sanctions on South Africa if apartheid was not dismantled within six months. He proceeded to the United Kingdom, where he met with Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. He also announced the formation of a Bishop Tutu Scholarship Fund to financially assist South African students living in exile. He returned to the U.S. in May 1986, and in August 1986 visited Japan, China, and Jamaica to promote sanctions. Given that most senior anti-apartheid activists were imprisoned, Mandela referred to Tutu as \"public enemy number one for the powers that be\".\n\nAfter Philip Russell announced his retirement as the Archbishop of Cape Town, in February 1986 the Black Solidarity Group formed a plan to get Tutu appointed as his replacement. At the time of the meeting, Tutu was in Atlanta, Georgia receiving the Martin Luther King, Jr. Nonviolent Peace Prize. Tutu's name was put forward for the position alongside that of Michael Nuttall, although both expressed hesitation at the nomination. In the vote, Tutu secured a two-thirds majority from both the clergy and laity and was then ratified in a unanimous vote by the synod of bishops. He was the first black man to hold the post. Some white Anglicans left the church in protest at his election. Over 1300 people attended his enthronement ceremony at the Cathedral of St George the Martyr. After the ceremony, Tutu held an open-air Eucharist for 10,000 people at the Cape Showgrounds in Goodwood, where he invited Albertina Sisulu and Allan Boesak to give political speeches.\n\nOn becoming archbishop, he moved into the post's official residence at Bishopscourt. He did so illegally, because he had not sought official permission to reside in what the state allocated as a \"white area\". He obtained money from the church to oversee renovations of the house, and had a children's playground installed in its ground, opening this and the Bishopscourt swimming pool open to members of his diocese. He invited the English priest Francis Cull to set up the Institute of Christian Spirituality at Bishopscourt, with the latter moving into a building in the house's grounds. Such projects led to Tutu's ministry taking up an increasingly large portion of the Anglican church's budget, which Tutu sought to expand through requesting donations from overseas. Some Anglicans were critical of his spending.\n\nHis work as archbishop, coupled with his political activism and regular foreign trips, led to him accumulating a vast workload, which he managed with the assistance of his executive officer Njongonkulu Ndungane and with Nuttall, who in 1989 was elected dean of the province. In church meetings, Tutu drew upon traditional African custom by adopting a consensus-building model of leadership, seeking to ensure that competing groups in the church reached a compromise and thus all votes would be unanimous rather than divided. He secured approval for the ordination of female priests in the Anglican church, having likened the exclusion of women from the position to the exclusionary system of apartheid. He also appointed gay priests to senior positions and privately—although not at the time publicly—criticised the church's insistence that gay priests remain celibate, regarding it as impractical.\n\nAlong with Boesak and Stephen Naidoo, Tutu became one of the church leaders involved in mediating conflicts between black protesters and the security forces; they for instance worked to avoid clashes at the 1987 funeral of ANC guerrilla Ashley Kriel. In February 1988, the government banned 17 black or multi-racial organisations, including the UDF, and restricted the activities of trade unions. Church leaders organised a protest march, and after that too was banned they established the Committee for the Defense of Democracy. When the group's rally was banned, Tutu, Boesak, and Naidoo organised a service at St George's Cathedral to replace it.\n\nIn March 1988, he took up the cause of the Sharpeville Six who had been sentenced to death; opposed on principle to capital punishment, he called for their lives to be spared. He telephoned representatives of the U.S., British, and German governments urging them to pressure Botha on the issue, and personally met with Botha at the latter's Tuynhuys home to discuss the issue. The two did not get on well, and argued. Botha accused Tutu of supporting the ANC's armed campaign; Tutu said that while he did not support their use of violence, he supported the ANC's objective of a non-racial, democratic South Africa. The death sentences were ultimately commuted.\n\nIn May 1988, the government launched a covert campaign against Tutu, organised in part by Stratkom wing of the State Security Council. The security police printed leaflets and stickers with anti-Tutu slogans while unemployed blacks were paid to protest at the airport when he arrived there. Traffic police arrested Leah and locked her in a cell when she was late to renew her motor vehicle license. Although the security police organised assassination attempts on various anti-apartheid Christian leaders, they later claimed to have never done so for Tutu, regarding him as too high-profile.\n\nTutu remained actively involved in acts of civil disobedience against the government; he was encouraged by the fact that many whites also took part in these protests. In August 1989 he helped to organise an \"Ecumenical Defiance Service\" at St George's Cathedral, and shortly after joined protests at segregated beaches outside Cape Town. To mark the sixth anniversary of the UDF's foundation he held a \"service of witness\" at the cathedral, and in September organised a church memorial for those protesters who had been killed in clashes with the security forces. He organised a protest march through Cape Town for later that month, which the new President F. W. de Klerk agreed to permit; a multi-racial crowd containing an estimated 30,000 people took part. That the march had been permitted inspired similar demonstrations to take place across the country. In October, de Klerk met with Tutu, Boesak, and Frank Chikane; Tutu was impressed that \"we were listened to\". In 1994, a further collection of Tutu's writings, \"The Rainbow People of God\", was published, and followed the next year with his \"An African Prayer Book\", a collection of prayers from across the continent accompanied by the Archbishop's commentary.\n\nIn February 1990, de Klerk un-banned political parties like the ANC; Tutu phoned him to congratulate him on the move. Shortly after, de Klerk announced that Mandela was to be released from prison. The ANC asked Tutu if Mandela and his wife Winnie could stay at Bishopscourt on the first night of his freedom, to which Tutu agreed. They met for the first time in 35 years at Cape Town City Hall, where Mandela gave a speech to assembled crowds from the balcony. Tutu invited Mandela to attend an Anglican synod of bishops in February 1990, at which the latter described Tutu as the \"people's archbishop\". At that synod, Tutu and the bishops decide to call for an end to foreign sanctions once the transition to universal suffrage was \"irreversible\", urged anti-apartheid groups to end their use of armed struggle, and ban Anglican clergy from belonging to political parties. Many clergy protested about the latter point, particularly as it has been imposed without consultation. Tutu publicly defended the decision, stating that if priests openly affiliated with political parties then it would prove divisive, particularly amid the growing violence between the supporters of rival parties throughout South Africa.\n\nIn March, violence broke out between supporters of the ANC and of Inkatha in kwaZulu; Tutu cancelled a visit to the US to join the SACC delegation in talks within Mandela, de Klerk, and Inkatha leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi in Ulundi. Church leaders urged Mandela and Buthelezi to hold a joint rally to quell the violent rivalry between their respective parties. Although Tutu's relationship with Buthelezi had always been strained—particularly due to Tutu's opposition to Buthelezi's collaboration in the apartheid government's Bantustan system—the clergyman visited Buthelezi on a number of occasions to encourage his involvement in the democratic process. As the ANC-Inkatha violence spread from kwaZulu into the Transvaal, Tutu toured affected townships in Witwatersrand, visiting those made homeless and calling for peace. He visited the victims of the massacre at Sebokeng, and later those of the Boipatong massacre. \n\nLike many other activists, Tutu believed that there was a \"third force\" stoking the tensions between the ANC and Inkatha; it later emerged that sectors of the intelligence agencies were supplying Inkatha with weapons to weaken the ANC's negotiating position. Unlike some ANC figures, Tutu never accused de Klerk of personal complicity in these operations. In November 1990, Tutu organised a \"summit\" at Bishopscourt attended by both church leaders and leaders of political groups like the ANC, PAC, and AZAPO, in which he encouraged them to call on their supporters to avoid violence and allow free political campaigning. After the South African Communist Party leader Chris Hani was assassinated by a white man, Tutu served as preacher at Hani's funeral outside Soweto; despite his objections to Hani's Marxist beliefs, Tutu had admired him as an activist. Amid these events, Tutu had experienced physical exhaustion and ill-health, and he undertook a four-month sabbatical at Emory University's Candler School of Theology in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nTutu had been exhilarated by the prospect that South Africa was transforming towards universal suffrage via a negotiated transition rather than a racial civil war. He allowed his face to be used on posters encouraging South Africans to vote. When the April 1994 multi-racial general election took place, Tutu was visibly exuberant, telling reporters that \"we are on cloud nine\". He voted in Cape Town's Gugulethu township. The ANC won the election and Mandela was declared president, overseeing the formation of a government of national unity. Tutu attended Mandela's inauguration ceremony and had been responsible for planning its religious component; Tutu had insisted that it be a multi-religious ceremony, with Christian, Muslim, Jewish, and Hindu leaders taking part in prayers and readings.\n\nAlongside his domestic work, he also turned his attention to events elsewhere in Africa, and in 1987 gave the keynote speech at the All Africa Conference of Churches (AACC) in Lomé, Togo. There, he called on churches to champion the oppressed throughout the continent, stating that \"it pains us to have to admit that there is less freedom and personal liberty in most of Africa now then there was during the much-maligned colonial days.\" At the conference, he was elected president of the AACC, while José Belo was elected its general-secretary. Calling for an \"African renaissance\" across the continent, the pair formed a partnership that would last a decade. In 1989 they visited Zaire to encourage the country's churches to distance themselves from Seko's autocratic government. In 1994, he and Belo visited war-torn Liberia in a mission co-organised by the AACC and the Carter Center. There, they met Charles Taylor, but Tutu did not trust his promise of a ceasefire. In 1995, Mandela sent Tutu to Nigeria to meet with Nigerian military leader Sani Abacha to request the release of imprisoned politicians Moshood Abiola and Olusegun Obasanjo. In July 1995, he visited Rwanda a year after the genocide, where he preached to 10,000 people in Kigali. Drawing on his experiences in South Africa, he called for justice to be tempered with mercy towards the Hutu who had orchestrated the genocide. Tutu also travelled to other parts of world, for instance spending March 1989 in Panama and Nicaragua.\n\nTutu also spoke out on the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. While in New York in 1989, he had praised God for the creation of the state of Israel and asserted its right to \"territorial integrity and fundamental security against attacks from those who deny her right to exist\". He visited Palestine Liberation Organization leader Yasser Arafat in Cairo, urging him to accept Israel's existence. At the same time he expressed anger that Israel had supplied military hardware to South Africa during the apartheid era, expressing bemusement as to how the Jewish state could co-operate with a government that had contained many Nazi sympathisers. Referring to the Israeli-occupied territories in the Gaza Strip and West Bank, he stated that there were \"deeply, deeply distressing\" parallels with the situation in apartheid South Africa. He called for the formation of a distinct Palestinian state, and emphasised that his criticisms were of the Israeli government rather than Jews as a broader group. At the invite of Palestinian bishop Samir Kafity, he undertook a Christmas pilgrimage to Jerusalem, where he gave a sermon at Shepherd's Field near Bethlehem, in which he called for a two-state solution. On that trip, he also visited the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial, where he laid a wreath and spoke to journalists on the importance of forgiveness. His calls to forgive those who perpetrated the Holocaust, coupled with his support for a Palestinian state, brought criticism from many Jewish groups across the world. This was exacerbated by the fact that he sought to evade suspicions of anti-Semitism through comments such as \"my dentist is a Dr. Cohen\".\n\nTutu also spoke out regarding The Troubles in Northern Ireland. At the Lambeth conference of 1988, he backed a resolution on the issue which condemned the use of violence by all sides; Tutu believed that, given Irish republicans had the right to vote, they had not exhausted peaceful means of bringing about change and thus should not resort to armed struggle. Three years later, he gave a televised service from Dublin's Christ Church Cathedral where he called for negotiations to take place between all factions, including the Irish republican Sinn Féin and the Provisional Irish Republican Army, groups which Thatcher's UK government had refused to engage with. He visited Belfast in 1998 and again in 2001.\n\nIn October 1994, Tutu announced his intention to retire as archbishop in 1996. Although retired archbishops normally return to the position of bishop, the other bishops bestowed on him a new title: \"archbishop emeritus\". A farewell ceremony was held at St George's Cathedral in June 1996, attended by senior politicians like Mandela and de Klerk. There, Mandela awarded Tutu the Order for Meritorious Service, South Africa's highest honour. Tutu was succeeded as archbishop by Ndungane. \n\nIn January 1997, Tutu was diagnosed with prostate cancer and travelled abroad for treatment. He publicly revealed his diagnosis, hoping to encourage other men to go for prostate exams. He faced recurrences of the disease in 1999 and 2006. Back in South Africa, he divided his time between homes in Soweto's Orlando West and Cape Town's Milnerton area. In 2000, he opened an office in Cape Town. In June 2000, the Cape Town-based Desmond Tutu Peace Centre was launched, which in 2003 launched an Emerging Leadership Program.\n\nConscious that his presence in South Africa might overshadow Ndungane, Tutu agreed to a two-year visiting professorship at Emory University. This took place between 1998 and 2000, and during the period he wrote a book about the TRC, \"No Future Without Forgiveness\". In early 2002 he taught at the Episcopal Divinity School in Cambridge, Massachusetts. From January to May 2003 he taught at the University of North Carolina. In January 2004, he was visiting professor of postconflict societies at KCL, his \"alma mater\". While in the United States, he signed up with a speakers' agency and travelled widely on speaking engagements; this gave him financial independence in a way that his clerical pension would not. In his speeches, he focused on South Africa's transition from apartheid to universal suffrage, presenting it as a model for other troubled nations to adopt. In the US, he thanked anti-apartheid activists for campaigning for sanctions, also calling for US companies to now invest in South Africa. \n\nTutu popularised the term \"Rainbow Nation\" as a metaphor for post-apartheid South Africa after 1994 under ANC rule. He had first used the metaphor in 1989 when he described a multi-racial protest crowd as the \"rainbow people of God\". Tutu advocated what liberation theologians call \"critical solidarity\", offering support for pro-democracy forces while reserving the right to criticise his allies. He criticised Mandela on several points, such as his tendency to wear brightly coloured Madiba shirts, which he regarded as inappropriate; Mandela offered the tongue-in-cheek response that it was ironic coming from a man who wore dresses. More serious was Tutu's criticism of Mandela's retention of South Africa's apartheid-era armaments industry and the significant pay packet that newly elected Members of Parliament adopted. Mandela hit back, calling Tutu a \"populist\" and stating that he should have raised these issues privately rather than publicly.\n\nA key question facing the post-apartheid government was how they would respond to the various human rights abuses that had been committed over the previous decades by both the state and by anti-apartheid activists. The National Party had wanted a comprehensive amnesty package whereas the ANC wanted trials of former state figures. Alex Boraine helped Mandela's government to draw up legislation for the establishment of a Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC), which was passed by parliament in July 1995. Nuttall suggested that Tutu become one of the TRC's seventeen commissioners, while in September a synod of bishops formally nominated him. Tutu proposed that the TRC adopt a threefold approach: the first being confession, with those responsible for human rights abuses fully disclosing their activities, the second being forgiveness in the form of a legal amnesty from prosecution, and the third being restitution, with the perpetrators making amends to their victims.\n\nMandela named Tutu as the chair of the TRC, with Boraine as his deputy. The commission was a significant undertaking, employing over 300 staff, dividing into three committees, and holding as many as four hearings simultaneously. In the TRC, Tutu advocated \"restorative justice\", something which he considered characteristic of traditional African jurisprudence \"in the spirit of \"ubuntu\"\". As head of the commission, Tutu had to deal with its various inter-personal problems, with much suspicion between those on its board who had been anti-apartheid activists and those who had supported the apartheid system. He acknowledged that \"we really were like a bunch of prima donnas, frequently hypersensitive, often taking umbrage easily at real or imagined slights\". Tutu opened meetings with prayers and often referred to Christian teachings when discussing the TRC's work, frustrating some who saw him as incorporating too many religious elements into an expressly secular body.\n\nThe first hearing took place in April 1996. The hearings were publicly televised and had a considerable impact on South African society. He had very little control over the committee responsible for granting amnesty, instead chairing the committee which heard accounts of human rights abuses perpetrated by both anti-apartheid and apartheid figures. While listening to the testimony of victims, Tutu was sometimes overwhelmed by emotion and cried during the hearings. He singled out those victims who expressed forgiveness towards those who had harmed them and used these individuals as his leitmotif. The ANC's image was tarnished by the revelations that some of its activists had engaged in torture, attacks on civilians, and other human rights abuses. It sought to suppress part of the final TRC report, infuriating Tutu. He warned of the ANC's \"abuse of power\", stating that \"yesterday's oppressed can quite easily become today's oppressors... We've seen it happen all over the world and we shouldn't be surprised if it happens here\". Tutu presented the five-volume TRC report to Mandela in a public ceremony in Pretoria in October 1998. Ultimately, Tutu was pleased with the TRC's achievement, believing that it would aid long-term reconciliation, although recognised its short-comings.\n\nPost-apartheid, Tutu's status as a gay rights activist kept him in the public eye more than any other issue facing the Anglican Church. Tutu regarded discrimination against homosexuals as being the equivalent to discrimination against black people and women, and his views on this known through speeches and sermons. After the 1998 Lambeth Conference of bishops reaffirmed the church's opposition to same-sex sexual acts, Tutu wrote to George Carey stating \"I am ashamed to be an Anglican\". He regarded the Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams as too accommodating of conservatives who wanted to eject various US and Canadian Anglican churches from the Anglican Communion after they expressed a pro-LGB rights stance. Tutu expressed the view that if these conservatives disliked the inclusiveness of the Anglican Communion, they always had \"the freedom to leave\". In 2007, Tutu accused the church of being obsessed with homosexuality and declared: \"If God, as they say, is homophobic, I wouldn't worship that God.\" In 2011, he called on the Anglican Church of Southern Africa to accept and conduct same-sex marriages.\n\nTutu also spoke out on the need to combat the HIV/AIDS pandemic, in June 2003 stating that \"Apartheid tried to destroy our people and apartheid failed. If we don't act against HIV-AIDS, it may succeed, for it is already decimating our population\". On the April 2005 election of Pope Benedict XVI—who was known for his conservative views on issues of gender and sexuality—Tutu described it as unfortunate that the Roman Catholic Church was now unlikely to change its opposition to the use of condoms \"amidst the fight against HIV/AIDS\" nor its opposition to the ordination of women priests. To help combat child trafficking, in 2006 Tutu launched a global campaign, organised by the aid organisation Plan, to ensure that all children are registered at birth.\n\nTutu retained his interest in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and after the signing of the Oslo Accords was invited to Tel Aviv to attend the Peres Centre for Peace. He became increasingly frustrated following the collapse of the 2000 Camp David Summit, and in 2002 gave a widely publicised speech denouncing Israeli policy regarding the Palestinians and calling for sanctions against Israel. Comparing the Israeli-Palestinian situation with that in South Africa, he said that \"one reason we succeeded in South Africa that is missing in the Middle East is quality of leadership - leaders willing to make unpopular compromises, to go against their own constituencies, because they have the wisdom to see that would ultimately make peace possible.\" Tutu was named to head a United Nations fact-finding mission to Beit Hanoun in the Gaza Strip to investigate the November 2006 incident in which soldiers from the Israel Defense Forces killed 19 civilians. Israeli officials expressed concern that the report would be biased against Israel. Tutu cancelled the trip in mid-December, saying that Israel had refused to grant him the necessary travel clearance after more than a week of discussions.\n\nIn 2003, Tutu was the scholar in residence at the University of North Florida. It was there, in February, that he broke his normal rule on not joining protests outside South Africa by taking part in a New York demonstration against plans for the U.S. to launch the Iraq War. He telephoned Condoleezza Rice urging the U.S. government not to go to war without a resolution from the United Nations Security Council. Tutu questioned why Iraq was being singled out for allegedly possessing weapons of mass destruction when Europe, India, and Pakistan also had many such devices. In 2004, he appeared in \"Honor Bound to Defend Freedom\", an Off Broadway play in New York City critical of the U.S. detention of prisoners at Guantánamo Bay. In January 2005, he added his voice to the growing dissent over terrorist suspects held at Guantánamo's Camp X-Ray, stating that these detentions without trial were \"utterly unacceptable\" and comparable to the apartheid-era detentions. He also criticised the UK's introduction of measures to detain terrorist subjects for 28 days without trial.\nIn 2012, he called for U.S. President George W. Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair to be tried by the International Criminal Court for initiating the Iraq War.\n\nIn 2004, he gave the inaugural lecture at the Church of Christ the King, where he commended the achievements made in South Africa over the previous decade although warned of widening wealth disparity among its population. He questioned the government's spending on armaments, its policy regarding Mugabe's government in Zimbabwe, and the manner in which Nguni-speakers dominated senior positions, stating that this latter issue would stoke ethnic tensions. He made the same points three months later when giving the annual Nelson Mandela Lecture in Johannesburg. There, he charged the ANC under Mbeki's leadership of demanding \"sycophantic, obsequious conformity\" among its members. Tutu and Mbeki had long had a strained relationship; Mbeki had accused Tutu of criminalising the ANC's military struggle against apartheid through the TRC, while Tutu disliked Mbeki's active neglect of the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Like Mandela before him, Mbeki accused Tutu of being a populist, further claiming that the cleric had no understanding of the ANC's inner workings. Tutu later criticised ANC leader and South African President Jacob Zuma; in 2006, he criticised Zuma's \"moral failings\" as a result of accusations of rape and corruption that he was facing. In 2007, he again criticised South Africa's policy of \"quiet diplomacy\" toward Mugabe's government, calling for the Southern Africa Development Community to chair talks between Mugabe's ZANU-PF and the opposition Movement for Democratic Change, to set firm deadlines for action, with consequences if they were not met. In 2008, he called for a UN Peacekeeping force to be sent to Zimbabwe.\n\nBefore the 31st G8 summit at Gleneagles, Scotland, in 2005, Tutu called on world leaders to promote free trade with poorer countries and to end expensive taxes on anti-AIDS drugs.\nIn July 2007, Tutu was declared Chair of The Elders, a group of world leaders to contribute their wisdom, kindness, leadership and integrity to tackle some of the world's toughest problems. Tutu served in this capacity until May 2013. Upon stepping down and becoming an Honorary Elder, he said: \"As Elders we should always oppose presidents for Life. After six wonderful years as Chair, I am sad to say that it was time for me to step down.\" Tutu led The Elders' visit to Sudan in October 2007 – their first mission after the group was founded – to foster peace in the Darfur crisis. \"Our hope is that we can keep Darfur in the spotlight and spur on governments to help keep peace in the region,\" said Tutu. He has also travelled with Elders delegations to Ivory Coast, Cyprus, Ethiopia, India, South Sudan and the Middle East. \n\nDuring the 2008 Tibetan unrest, Tutu marched in a pro-Tibet demonstration in San Francisco; there, he called on heads of states to boycott the 2008 Summer Olympics opening ceremony in Beijing \"for the sake of the beautiful people of Tibet\". Tutu invited the Tibetan Buddhist leader, the 14th Dalai Lama, to attend his 80th birthday in October 2011, although the South African government did not grant him entry; observers suggested that they had not given permission so as not to offend China, a major trading partner.\nIn 2009, Tutu assisted in the establishing of the Solomon Islands' Truth and Reconciliation Commission, modelled after the South African body of the same name. He also attended the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, and has publicly called for fossil fuel divestment, comparing it to disinvestment from apartheid-era South Africa.\n\nIn October 2010, Tutu announced his retirement from public life so that he could spend more time \"at home with my family - reading and writing and praying and thinking\". In May 2013, Tutu declared that he would no longer vote for the ANC, stating that while the party was \"very good at leading us in the struggle to be free from oppression\", it had done a poor job in countering inequality, violence, and corruption in South Africa. The following month, he welcomed Raphele's launch of a new party, Agang South Africa. After Mandela died in December 2013, Tutu initially stated that he had not been invited to the funeral, but the government denied this and Tutu subsequently announced that he would attend. He publicly criticised the memorials held for Mandela, stating that they had given too much prominence to the ANC and that Afrikaners had been marginalised from them, believing that Mandela himself would have been appalled by this.\n\nTutu also maintained an interest in social issues. In July 2014, he came out in support of legalised assisted dying, stating that life shouldn't be preserved \"at any cost\" and that the criminalisation of assisted dying deprived the terminally ill of their \"human right to dignity\". He later stated that he would want that option open to him personally. He reiterated his support for assisted dying legislation in September 2018 following the arrest of assisted dying campaigner Sean Davison. In December 2015, Tutu's daughter, Mpho Tutu, married a woman, Marceline van Furth, in the Netherlands. Tutu attended and gave the proceedings a blessing, despite of ongoing Anglican opposition to same-sex marriage.\n\nTutu also continued to comment on international affairs. In November 2012, he published a letter alongside Mairead Maguire and Adolfo Pérez Esquivel in which they expressed support for U.S. military whistleblower Bradley Manning and condemned Manning's imprisonment in the U.S. In August 2017, Tutu was among ten Nobel Peace Prize laureates who urged Saudi Arabia to stop the executions of 14 young people for participating in the 2011–12 Saudi Arabian protests. In September, Tutu asked Myanmar's leader Aung San Suu Kyi, a fellow Nobel Peace Prize laureate, to halt the army's persecution of the country's Muslim Rohingya minority. In December, he was among those to condemn U.S. President Donald Trump's decision to officially recognise Jerusalem as Israel's capital despite opposition from the Palestinians; Tutu said that God was weeping at Trump's decision.\n\nDu Boulay noted that Tutu was \"a man of many layers\" and \"contradictory tensions\". His personality has been described as warm, exuberant, and outgoing. Du Boulay noted that his \"typical African warmth and a spontaneous lack of inhibition\" proved shocking to many of the \"reticent English\" whom he encountered when in England, but that it also meant that he had the \"ability to endear himself to virtually everyone who actually meets him\". \n\nDu Boulay noted that as a child, Tutu had been hard-working and \"unusually intelligent\". She added that he had a \"gentle, caring temperament and would have nothing to do with anything that hurt others\", commenting on how he had \"a quicksilver mind a disarming honesty\". Tutu was rarely angry in his personal contacts with others, although could become so if he felt that his integrity was being challenged. He had a tendency to be highly trusting, something which some of those close to whom sometimes believed was unwise in various situations. He was also reportedly bad at managing finances and prone to overspending, resulting in accusations of irresponsibility and extravagance. \n\nTutu had a passion for preserving African traditions of courtesy. He could be offended by discourteous behaviour and careless language, as well as by swearing and ethnic slurs. He could get very upset if a member of his staff forgot to thank him or did not apologise for being late to a prayer session. He also disliked gossip and discouraged it among his staff. He was very punctual, and insisted on punctuality among those in his employ. Du Boulay noted that \"his attention to the detail of people's lives is remarkable\", for he would be meticulous in recording and noting people's birthdays and anniversaries. He was attentive to his parishioners, making an effort to regularly visit and spend time with them; this included making an effort to visit parishioners who disliked him.\n\nAccording to Du Boulay, Tutu had \"a deep need to be loved\", a facet that the clergyman recognised about himself and referred to as a \"horrible weakness\". Tutu has also been described as being sensitive, and very easily hurt, an aspect of his personality which he concealed from the public eye; Du Boulay noted that he \"reacts to emotional pain\" in an \"almost childlike way\". He never denied being ambitious, and acknowledged that he enjoyed the limelight which his position gave him, something that his wife often teased him about. He was, according to Du Boulay, \"a man of passionate emotions\" who was quick to both laugh and cry.\n\nAs well as English, Tutu could speak Zulu, Sotho, Tswana, and Xhosa. Tutu was often praised for his public speaking abilities; Du Boulay noted that his \"star quality enables him to hold an audience spellbound\". Gish noted that \"Tutu's voice and manner could light up an audience; he never sounded puritanical or humourless\". Quick witted, he used humour to try and win over audiences. He had a talent for mimicry but, according to Du Boulay, \"his humour has none of the cool acerbity that makes for real wit\". His application of humour included jokes that made a point about apartheid; \"the whites think the black people want to drive them into the sea. What they forget is, with apartheid on the beaches - we can't even \"go\" to the sea.\" In a speech made at the Sixth Assembly of the World Council of Churches in Vancouver, he for instance drew laughs from the audience for referring to South Africa as having a \"few local problems\".\n\nTutu had a lifelong love of literature and reading, and was a fan of cricket. To relax, he enjoyed listening to classical music and reading books on politics or religion. His favourite foods included samosas, marshmallows, fat cakes, and Yogi Sip. When hosts asked what his culinary tastes were, his wife responded: \"think of a five year old\". \nTutu awoke at 4am each morning, before engaging in an early morning walk, prayers, and the Eucharist. On Fridays, he fasted until supper. \n\nTutu was a committed Christian since boyhood. Prayer was a big part of his life; he often spent an hour in prayer at the start of each day, and would ensure that every meeting or interview that he was part of was preceded by a short prayer. He was even known to often pray while driving. He reads the Bible every day. Tutu says he reads the Bible every day and recommends that people read it as a collection of books, not a single constitutional document: \n\"You have to understand is that the Bible is really a library of books and it has different categories of material,\" he said.\n\"There are certain parts which you have to say no to. The Bible accepted slavery. St Paul said women should not speak in church at all and there are people who have used that to say women should not be ordained. There are many things that you shouldn't accept.\"\n\nOn 2 July 1955, Tutu married Nomalizo Leah Shenxane, a teacher whom he had met while at college. They had four children: Trevor Thamsanqa, Theresa Thandeka, Naomi Nontombi and Mpho Andrea, all of whom attended the Waterford Kamhlaba School in Swaziland. Du Boulay referred to him as \"a loving and concerned father\", while Allen described him as a \"loving but strict father\" to his children.\n\nAllen stated that the theme running through Tutu's campaigning was that of \"democracy, human rights and tolerance, to be achieved by dialogue and accommodation between enemies.\" Racial equality was one of his core principles, and his opposition to apartheid was unequivocal. He believed that the apartheid system had to be wholly dismantled rather than being reformed in a piecemeal fashion. Tutu compared the apartheid ethos of South Africa's National Party to the ideas of the Nazi Party, and drew comparisons between apartheid policy and the Holocaust. He noted that whereas the latter was a quicker and more efficient way of exterminating whole populations, the National Party's policy of forcibly relocating black South Africans to areas where they lacked access to food and sanitation had much the same result. In his words, \"Apartheid is as evil and as vicious as Nazism and Communism\".\n\nDespite his experiences under the white-minority government, Tutu never became anti-white, in part due to the many positive experiences that he had had with white people in both South Africa and Britain. He promoted racial reconciliation between South Africa's different communities, believing that most blacks fundamentally wanted to live in harmony with whites, although he stressed that reconciliation would only be possible among equals, after blacks had been given full civil rights. In his speeches, he stressed that it was apartheid itself—rather than white people—that was the enemy. He tried to cultivate goodwill from the country's white community, making a point of showing white individuals gratitude when they made concessions to black demands. He also spoke to many white audiences, urging them to support his cause, referring to it as the \"winning side\", and reminding them that when apartheid had been overthrown, black South Africans would remember who their friends had been. When he held public prayers, he always included mention of those who upheld the apartheid system, such as politicians and police, as well as the system's victims, emphasising his view that all humans were the children of God. He stated that \"the people who are perpetrators of injury in our land are not sporting horns or tails. They're just ordinary people who are scared. Wouldn't you be scared if you were outnumbered five to one?\"\n\nTutu was always committed to non-violent activism, and in his speeches was also cautious never to threaten or endorse violence, even when he warned that it was a likely outcome of government policy. He nevertheless described himself as a \"man of peace\" rather than a pacifist. He for instance accepted that violence had been necessary to stop Nazism. In the South African situation, he criticised the use of violence by both the government and anti-apartheid groups, although was also critical of white South Africans who would only condemn the use of violence by the latter, regarding such a position as a case of double-standards. To end apartheid, he advocated foreign economic pressure be put on South Africa. To critics who claimed that this measure would only cause further hardship for impoverished black South Africans, he responded that said communities were already experiencing significant hardship and that it would be better if they were \"suffering with a purpose\".\n\nDuring the apartheid period, he criticised the black leaders of the Bantustans, describing them as \"largely corrupt men looking after their own interests, lining their pockets\"; Buthelezi, the leader of the Zulu Bantustan, privately claimed that there was \"something radically wrong\" with Tutu's personality. In the 1980s, he also condemned Western political leaders, namely Reagan, Thatcher, and West Germany's Helmut Kohl, for retaining links with the South African government, stipulating that \"support of this racist policy is racist\". Regarding Reagan, he stated that although he once thought him a \"crypto-racist\" for his soft stance on the National Party administration, he would \"say now that he is a racist pure and simple\". He and his wife boycotted a lecture given at the Federal Theological Institute by former British Prime Minister Alec Douglas-Home in the 1960s; Tutu noted that they did so because Britain's Conservative Party had \"behaved abominably over issues which touched our hearts most nearly\". Later in life, he also spoke out against various African leaders, for instance describing Zimbabwe's Robert Mugabe as the \"caricature of an African dictator\", who had \"gone bonkers in a big way\".\n\nAccording to Du Boulay, \"Tutu's politics spring directly and inevitably from his Christianity\". He believed that it was the duty of Christians to oppose unjust laws, and that there could be no separation between the religious and the political just as—according to Anglican theology—there is no separation between the spiritual realm (the Holy Ghost) and the material one (Jesus Christ). However, he was adamant that he was not personally a politician. He felt that religious leaders like himself should stay outside of party politics, citing the example of Abel Muzorewa in Zimbabwe, Makarios III in Cyprus, and Ruhollah Khomeini in Iran as examples in which such crossovers proved problematic. He tried to avoid alignment with any particular political party; in the 1980s he for instance signed a plea urging anti-apartheid activists in the United States to support both the ANC and the Pan Africanist Congress (PAC). Du Boulay however noted that Tutu was \"most at home\" with the UDF umbrella organisation, and that his views on a multi-racial alliance against apartheid placed him closer to the approach of the ANC and UDF than the blacks-only approach favoured by the PAC and Black Consciousness groups like AZAPO. When, in the late 1980s, there were suggestions that he should take political office, he rejected the idea.\n\nWhen pressed to describe his ideological position, Tutu has described himself as a socialist. In 1986 he related that \"All my experiences with capitalism, I'm afraid, have indicated that it encourages some of the worst features in people. Eat or be eaten. It is underlined by the survival of the fittest. I can't buy that. I mean, maybe it's the awful face of capitalism, but I haven't seen the other face.\" Also in the 1980s, he was reported as saying that \"apartheid has given free enterprise a bad name\". While identifying with socialism, he opposed forms of socialism like Marxism-Leninism which promoted communism, being critical of Marxism-Leninism's promotion of atheism. Tutu has often used the aphorism that \"African communism\" is an oxymoron because—in his view—Africans are intrinsically spiritual and this conflicts with the atheistic nature of Marxism. He was critical of the Marxist governments in the Soviet Union and Eastern Bloc, comparing the way that they treated their populations with the way that the National Party treated South Africans. In 1985 he stated that he hated Marxism-Leninism \"with every fiber of my being\" although sought to explain why black South Africans turned to it as an ally: \"when you are in a dungeon and a hand is stretched out to free you, you do not ask for the pedigree of the hand owner.\"\n\nMandela had foregrounded the idea of \"Ubuntu\" as being of importance to South Africa's political framework. In 1986, Tutu had defined Ubuntu: \"It refers to gentleness, to compassion, to hospitality, to openness to others, to vulnerability, to be available to others and to know that you are bound up with them in the bundle of life.\" Reflecting this view of ubuntu, Tutu was fond of the Xhosa saying that \"a person is a person through other persons\".\n\nTutu was attracted to Anglicanism because of what he saw as its tolerance and inclusiveness, its appeal to reason alongside scripture and tradition, and the freedom that its constituent churches had from any centralized authority. Tutu's approach to Anglicanism has been characterised as Anglo-Catholic in nature. He regarded the Anglican Communion as a family, replete with its internal squabbles.\n\nTutu rejected the idea that any particular variant of theology was universally applicable, instead maintaining that all understandings of God had to be \"contextual\" in relating to the socio-cultural conditions in which they existed. \nIn the 1970s, Tutu became an advocate of both black theology and African theology, seeking ways to fuse the two schools of Christian theological thought. Unlike other theologians, like John Mbiti, who saw the traditions as largely incompatible, Tutu emphasised the similarities between the two.\nHe believed that both theological approaches had arisen in contexts where black humanity had been defined in terms of white norms and values, in societies where \"to be really human\", the black man \"had to see himself and to be seen as a chocolate coloured white man.\" He also argued that both black and African theology shared a repudiation of the supremacy of Western values. In doing so he spoke of an underlying unity of Africans and the African diaspora, stating that \"All of us are bound to Mother Africa by invisible but tenacious bonds. She has nurtured the deepest things in us blacks.\"\n\nHe became, according to Du Boulay, \"one of the most eloquent and persuasive communicators\" of black theology. He expressed his views on theology largely through sermons and addresses rather than in extended academic treatises.\nTutu expressed the view that Western theology sought answers to questions that Africans were not asking. For Tutu, two major questions were being posed by African Christianity: how to replace imported Christian expressions of faith with something authentically African, and how to liberate people from bondage. He believed that there were many comparisons to be made between contemporary African understandings of God and those featured in the Old Testament. He nevertheless criticised African theology for failing to sufficiently address contemporary societal problems, and suggested that to correct this it should learn from the black theology tradition.\n\nWhen chairing the TRC, Tutu advocated an explicitly Christian model of reconciliation, as part of which he believed that South Africans had to face up to the damages that they had caused and accept the consequences of their actions. As part of this, he believed that the perpetrators and beneficiaries of apartheid must admit to their actions but that the system's victims should respond generously, stating that it was a \"gospel imperative\" to forgive. At the same time, he argued that those responsible had to display true repentance in the form of restitution.\n\nGish noted that by the time of apartheid's fall, Tutu had attained \"worldwide respect\" for his \"uncompromising stand for justice and reconciliation and his unmatched integrity\". According to Allen, Tutu \"made a powerful and unique contribution to publicizing the antiapartheid struggle abroad\", particularly in the United States. In the latter country, he was able to rise to prominence as a South African anti-apartheid activist because—unlike Mandela and other members of the ANC—he had no links to the South African Communist Party and thus was more acceptable to Americans amid the Cold War anti-communist sentiment of the period. In the U.S., he was often compared to Martin Luther King, with the African-American civil rights activist Jesse Jackson referring to him as \"the Martin Luther King of South Africa\"; this was a comparison that Tutu was embarrassed by.\nAfter the end of apartheid, Tutu became \"perhaps the world's most prominent religious leader advocating gay and lesbian rights\", according to Allen. Ultimately, Allen thought that perhaps Tutu's \"greatest legacy\" was the fact that he gave \"to the world as it entered the twenty-first century an African model for expressing the nature of human community\".\n\nDuring Tutu's rise to notability during the 1970s and 1980s, responses to him were \"sharply polarized\". Noting that he was \"simultaneously loved and hated, honoured and vilified\", Du Boulay attributed his divisive reception to the fact that \"strong people evoke strong emotions\". Tutu gained much adulation from black journalists, inspired imprisoned anti-apartheid activists, and led to many black parents naming their children after him. For many black South Africans, he was a respected religious leader and a symbol of black achievement. By 1984 he was—according to Gish—\"the personification of the South African freedom struggle\". In 1988, Du Boulay described him as \"a spokesman for his people, a voice for the voiceless\". \n\nThe response he received from South Africa's white minority was more mixed. Most of those who criticised him were conservative whites who did not want a shift away from apartheid and white-minority rule. Many of these whites were angered that he was calling for economic sanctions against South Africa and that he was warning that racial violence was impending. Said whites often accused him of being a tool of the communists. This hostility was exacerbated by the government's campaign to discredit Tutu and distort his image, which included repeatedly misquoting him to present his statements out of context. According to Du Boulay, the SABC and much of the white press went to \"extraordinary attempts to discredit him\", something that \"made it hard to know the man himself\". Allen noted that in 1984, Tutu was \"the black leader white South Africans most loved to hate\" and that this antipathy extended beyond supporters of the far-right government to liberals too. The fact that he was \"an object of hate\" for many was something that deeply pained him.\n\nTutu also drew criticism from within the anti-apartheid movement and the black South African community. He was criticised repeatedly for making statements on behalf of black South Africans without consulting other community leaders first. Some black anti-apartheid activists regarded him as too moderate, and in particular too focused on cultivating white goodwill. The African-American civil rights campaigner Bernice Powell for instance complained that he was \"too nice to white people\". According to Gish, Tutu \"faced the perpetual dilemma of all moderates - he was often viewed suspiciously by the two hostile sides he sought to bring together\". Tutu's critical view of Marxist-oriented communism and the governments of the Eastern Bloc, and the comparisons he drew between these administrations and far-right ideologies like Nazism and apartheid brought criticism from the South African Communist Party in 1984. After the transition to universal suffrage, Tutu's criticism of presidents Mbeki and Zuma brought objections from their supporters; in 2006, Zuma's personal advisor Elias Khumalo claimed that it as a double standard that Tutu could \"accept the apology from the apartheid government that committed unspeakable atrocities against millions of South Africans\", yet \"cannot find it in his heart to accept the apology\" from Zuma.\n\nTutu gained many international awards and honorary degrees, particularly in South Africa, the United Kingdom, and United States. By 2003, he had approximately 100 honorary degrees; he was, for example, the first person to be awarded an honorary doctorate by the Ruhr University of West Germany, and only the third person whom Columbia University in the U.S. agreed to award an honorary doctorate off-campus to. Many schools and scholarships were named after him. For instance, in 2000 the Munsieville Library in Klerksdorp was renamed the Desmond Tutu Library. At Fort Hare University, the Desmond Tutu School of Theology was launched in 2002.\n\nOn 16 October 1984, the then Bishop Tutu was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. The Nobel Committee cited his \"role as a unifying leader figure in the campaign to resolve the problem of apartheid in South Africa\". This was seen as a gesture of support for him and The South African Council of Churches which he led at that time. In 1987 Tutu was awarded the Pacem in Terris Award. It was named after a 1963 encyclical letter by Pope John XXIII that calls upon all people of good will to secure peace among all nations. \n\nIn 2008, Governor Rod Blagojevich of Illinois proclaimed 13 May 'Desmond Tutu Day'. Queen Elizabeth II appointed him as a Bailiff Grand Cross of the Venerable Order of St. John in September 2017. \nIn 2010 Desmond Tutu delivered the Bynum Tudor Lecture at the University of Oxford and became Visiting Fellow at Kellogg College, Oxford.\nIn 2013 he received the £1.1m ($1.6m) Templeton Prize for \"his life-long work in advancing spiritual principles such as love and forgiveness\".\nIn 2018 the fossil of a Devonian tetrapod was found in Grahamstown by Rob Gess of the Albany Museum; this tetrapod was named \"Tutusius umlambo\" in Tutu's honour.\n\nTutu is the author of seven collections of sermons and other writings:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1262273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1262273", "title": "Dominick Arduin", "text": "Dominick Arduin\n\nDominick Arduin (1961–2004) was a Frenchwoman who disappeared in her attempt to ski to the North Pole.\n\nIn 1988 Arduin moved to Finland. For 15 years she worked as a guide in Finnish Lapland and received dual citizenship. She said that she had grown up in the Alps, that she had been orphaned at an early age, had recovered from cancer and had been the only child aside from a dead sister. This backstory of hers was discovered to be lies after her disappearance.\n\nArduin reached the Magnetic North Pole in the spring 2001. She was rescued after the first failed attempt to reach the geographic North Pole in 2003. Most of her toes had to be amputated due to frostbite.\n\nOn 5 March 2004 Arduin began her second attempt to become the first woman to ski alone to the North Pole. She set out from Cape Arctichesky in Siberia. She lost contact after one day of travel. A helicopter search failed to find any trace of her though they recovered another traveler, Frédéric Chamard-Boudet. The search ended on 21 March.\n\nAfter her disappearance the Finnish author Sven Pahajoki decided to write a book about her life and while researching her background, realized she'd been lying all along about her accomplishments and life. Her sister and uncle were found and it was found out she'd done disappearances earlier as well and that they did not believe she had died, but just done another disappearance to start anew yet another time due to financial reasons and getting caught of lying. She was born and grew up in Paris, she never had cancer, her sister never died. Her father died when she was 19, her mother a few years later. \n"}
{"id": "39590404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39590404", "title": "Femininism", "text": "Femininism\n\nThe term femininism (also capitalized as Femininism) is related to the adjective feminine. The concept originates as far back as the 19th century. It is a philosophy of elevating and attempting to live by traits or virtues that accentuate the femininity of women, while still supporting intellectual equality between the sexes. It is acceptance of womanhood as strength.\n\nUnlike the similar-sounding feminism, \"femininism\" has a distinct meaning associated with gender differences rather than gender equality, though historically it has also been used to mean feminism.\n\nFemininism is influenced by queer theory and disassociates female qualities from sex. It is a celebration of qualities typically considered female and supports the adoption of these qualities by both women and men.\n\n"}
{"id": "51002645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51002645", "title": "FindFace", "text": "FindFace\n\nFindFace is a website that lets users search for members of the social network VK by uploading a photograph.\n\nIt was created by Artem Kukharenko, Maxim Perlin and Alexander Kabakov - Ntech Lab Ltd. co-founders.\n\nFindFace employs a facial recognition neural network algorithm developed by N-Tech.Lab to match faces in the photographs uploaded by its users against faces in photographs published on VK, with a reported accuracy of 70 percent. Different sources pointing NTech Lab's technology accuracy from 85.081% to 99%\n\nIn 2015 NTechLab algorithm won The MegaFace Benchmark challenge, organized by University of Washington.\n\nIn 2016, FindFace generated controversy because it was used to systematically deanonymize Russian pornography actresses and alleged prostitutes. These efforts were organized by users of a Russian imageboard who claimed that women in the sex industry are “corrupt and deceptive”, according to \"Global Voices\". In addition, FindFace has been characterized as a major step in the erosion of anonymity.\n"}
{"id": "1630997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1630997", "title": "Footedness", "text": "Footedness\n\nFootedness is the natural preference of one's left or right foot for various purposes. It is the foot equivalent of handedness. While purposes vary, such as applying the greatest force in a certain foot to complete the action of kick as opposed to stomping, footedness is most commonly associated with the preference of a particular foot in the leading position while engaging in foot, or kicking related sports, such as association football and kickboxing.\n\nIn football, the ball is predominately struck by the foot. Footedness may refer to the foot a player uses to kick with the greatest force and skill. Most people are right-footed, kicking with the right leg. Capable left-footed footballers are rare and therefore quite sought after. As rare are \"two-footed\" players, who are equally capable with both feet. Such players make up only one sixth of players in the top professional leagues in Europe. Two-footedness can be learnt, a notable case being England international Tom Finney, but can only be properly developed in the early years. In Australian Rules Football, several players are equally adept at using both feet to kick the ball, such as Sam Mitchell and Charles Bushnell (footballer, retired). In basketball, a sport composed almost solely of right-handed players, it is common for most athletes to have a dominant left leg which they would use when jumping to complete a right-hand layup. Hence, left handed basketball players tend to use their right leg more as they finish a left handed layup (although both right and left handed players are usually able to use both hands when finishing near the basket). \n\nIn the National Football League, a disproportionate, and increasing, number of punters punt with their left leg, where punting is the position in play that receives and kicks the ball once it leaves the line of scrimmage. At the end of the 2017 NFL season, 10 out of the league's 32 punters were left-footed, up from four out of 31 (not counting dual-footed punter Chris Hanson, who left the league in 2009) at the beginning of the millennium; in contrast, placekickers were almost exclusively right-footed. The only apparent advantage to punting with the left foot is because it is not as common, return specialists are not as experienced handling the ball spinning in the opposite direction.\n\nIn boardsports, such as surfing, skateboarding and snowboarding, one must stand erect on a single, lightweight object that slides along the ground or on water. The need for balance causes one to position the body perpendicular to the direction of motion, with one foot leading the other. As with handedness, when this task is repetitively performed, one tends to naturally choose a particular foot for the leading position.\n\nBoardsport riders are \"footed\" in one of two stances, generally called \"regular\" and \"goofy\". Riders will generally quickly choose a preferred stance that becomes permanently preferred. A \"regular\" stance indicates the left foot leading and a \"Goofy\" leads with the right. Professionals seem to be evenly distributed between the stances, as in the case of Luke Hopkins. Practice can yield a high level of ambidexterity between the two stances, such that even seasoned participants of a boardsport have difficulty discerning the footedness of an unfamiliar rider in action.\nTo increase the difficulty, variety, and aesthetic value of tricks, riders can ride \"switch stance\" (abbreviated to \"switch\"). For example, a goofy-footed skateboarder normally performs an ollie with the right foot forward, but a \"switch ollie\" would have the rider standing with the left foot at the front of the board. In sports where switch riding is common and expected, like street skateboarding, riders have the goal of appearing natural at, and performing the same tricks in, both regular and goofy stances. Some sports like kitesurfing and windsurfing generally require the rider to be able to switch stance depending on the wind or travel direction rather than rider preference. Each time direction is changed, the stance changes. Snowboarders who ride switch may adopt a \"duck stance\", where the feet are mounted turned out, or pointed away from the mid-line of the body, typically at a roughly 15 degree angle. In this position, the rider will have the leading foot facing forward in either regular or switch stance.\n\nWhen a rider rolls backwards, this is called \"riding fakie\". A \"fakie\" trick is performed while riding backwards but taking off on the front foot. Although it is the same foot that jumps in one's traditional stance, it is normally the back foot. A rider can also land in the fakie position. While there are some parallels between switch stance and fakie, riding switch implies opening the shoulders more to face the direction headed, though not as much as in traditional stance, while fakie stance implies a slightly more backwards facing, closed shoulder posture. 'Nollie' (nose ollie) is when the front foot takes off when one is riding in their normal stance, the same foot that jumps when doing tricks switch. In nollie position, the body and shoulders are facing forward as much as when riding in normal stance. Generally switch and nollie are done off the nose, whereas normal and fakie are done off the tail. \n\nIn skateboarding, most tricks are performed riding backwards — with respect to the rider's preferred stance — are exclusively categorized as \"switch\" (in a switch stance) or as fakie, with the general rule that tricks off the tail are almost always described as fakie, and those off the nose are nollie. For example, a jump using the tail rolling backwards is a \"fakie ollie\" (not a \"switch nollie\"), and a jump off the nose is a \"nollie\" (not a \"fakie nollie\").\n\nMongo foot refers to the use of the rider's front foot for pushing. Normally, a skateboarder will feel more with comfortable using their back foot to push, while their front foot remains on the board. In the minority case of mongo-footed skateboarders, the opposite is true. Some skateboarders who don't push mongo in their regular stance may still push mongo when riding in switch stance, rather than push with their weaker back foot. Some well-known skaters who change between mongo and normal when pushing switch include Jacob Vance, Stevie Williams, and Eric Koston.\n\nAlthough its origins remain uncertain, it is widely believed the term is a pejorative reference to the band Mungo Jerry.\n\nIn BMX, there is a de facto relationship between footedness and preferences of grinding position and of mid-air turning direction. The terms \"regular\" and \"goofy\" do not indicate a foot preference as in boardsports, but rather they point out if the rider's footedness has the usual relationship with their grinding and mid-air turning preferences. For example, consider the following classes of riders:\n\n\nBoth classes are of equal size and would be considered \"regular\". \"Goofy\" would describe riders whose trick preferences do not match their footedness: a rider who prefers to grind on the opposite side as do most is considered a \"goofy grinder\"; one who prefers to turn the opposite direction in mid-air as do most is considered a \"goofy spinner\". Few riders have either goofy trait, but some riders may have both. \n\nIn many combat sports, most people have a more powerful kick with the same side as their handedness.\n\n"}
{"id": "9835466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9835466", "title": "Infomax", "text": "Infomax\n\nInfomax is an optimization principle for artificial neural networks and other information processing systems. It prescribes that a function that maps a set of input values \"I\" to a set of output values \"O\" should be chosen or learned so as to maximize the average Shannon mutual information between \"I\" and \"O\", subject to a set of specified constraints and/or noise processes. Infomax algorithms are learning algorithms that perform this optimization process. The principle was described by Linsker in 1988.\n\nInfomax, in its zero-noise limit, is related to the principle of redundancy reduction proposed for biological sensory processing by Horace Barlow in 1961, and applied quantitatively to retinal processing by Atick and Redlich.\n\nOne of the applications of infomax has been to an independent component analysis algorithm that finds independent signals by maximizing entropy. Infomax-based ICA was described by Bell and Sejnowski, and Nadal and Parga in 1995. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4051224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4051224", "title": "Jason Sears", "text": "Jason Sears\n\nJason Kemper Sears (23 January 1968 – 31 January 2006) was an American punk rock vocalist from Santa Barbara, California, best known for his work with Rich Kids on LSD (RKL), from 1982 to their first breakup in 1990 and again from 1993 to 2006. He was also a nationally ranked snowboarder at one time and sponsored by Barfoot snowboarding team.\n\nSears was one of many singers to contribute to the album \"Strait Up\", made in memory of Lynn Strait, the late lead singer of the band Snot. Sears provided vocals for the track \"Until Next Time\".\n\nIn 2006, Sears died in a detoxification clinic in Tijuana, Mexico, of pulmonary thrombosis unrelated to the treatment. According to Mexican authorities he had been suffering from serious skin abscesses and an infection. He was being treated for addiction with ibogaine, a psychoactive compound with anti-addictive properties that is illegal in the U.S.\n\nSears is remembered by NOFX in the song \"Doornails\" from the 2006 album \"Wolves in Wolves' Clothing\", a tribute to punk rock musicians from Southern California who have died. The Sears reference is in the line, \"This Patrón's for Jason.\"\n"}
{"id": "3586182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3586182", "title": "João de Deus (medium)", "text": "João de Deus (medium)\n\nJoão Teixeira de Faria (born June 24, 1942), known also as João de Deus, is a Brazilian medium and \"psychic surgeon\" who has been accused of being a confidence trickster. He is based in Abadiânia, Brazil, where he runs the Casa de Dom Inácio de Loyola, a \"spiritual healing center\".\n\nJoão Teixeira de Faria was born in Cachoeira da Fumaça, Goiás (now Cachoeira de Goiás). Faria has no medical training and describes himself as a \"simple farmer\". He completed two years of education and spent a number of years travelling from village to village in the states of Goiás and Minas Gerais.\n\nFaria says he was told by his spirit guides that he must expand his work to reach more people and spiritist medium Chico Xavier told him he should go to the small Goiás town of Abadiânia to fulfill his healing mission. Around 1978, when João first performed healings there, he just sat outdoors in a chair near the main road where people began to arrive seeking cures for their various illnesses and conditions. Gradually the numbers increased to thousands per day and he developed his centre, Casa de Dom Inácio de Loyola. The Casa de Dom Inácio de Loyola has since been visited by millions of people seeking healing. He also owns a nearby cattle ranch, which covers about 1,000 acres and is valued over 2 million reais.\n\nMuch of his income comes from selling passionflower preparations, the single herb prescribed by Faria to cure a variety of ailments. The company which bears João Teixeira Faria's initials, JTF Ltda., markets the drug and is registered in the name of his wife, Ana Keyla Teixeira, and his driver and employee Abadio da Cruz.\n\nIn 2015, Faria was diagnosed with an aggressive stomach cancer. In August, 2015 a doctor of conventional medicine, Raul Cutait, extracted a malignant tumor of 6 cm - a gastric adenocarcinoma. The surgery and follow up of 5 months of chemotherapy took place at the Syrian-Lebanese Hospital in São Paulo. Faria did not report these facts to the public originally saying he was being hospitalised for a stomach hernia.\n\nFaria regularly prescribes meditation and walks to a nearby waterfall as part of treatment. The Casa also sells herbs, blessed items and artefacts such as magic triangles. It was estimated by 60 Minutes Australia in 2014 that these sales earn Faria over $10 million per year.\n\nWhen called for a spiritual surgery by Faria, patients are offered the choice of 'visible' or 'invisible' operations. If they select an 'invisible' operation (or are younger than 18 or older than 52) they are directed to sit in a room and meditate. Faria says that spiritual physicians can perform surgery on the actual patient via a surrogate when the actual patient is unable to make the trip.\n\nA very small percentage of people choose a 'visible' operation where Faria operates without traditional anesthetic. Instead he says he uses \"energized\" mineral water and the spiritual energies present, the latter which are provided by groups of volunteers who meditate in a separate room called the 'current room'. These practices such as inserting scissors or forceps deep into a nose and scraping an eye without an anesthetic or antiseptics have been scrutinised by medical authorities and skeptical investigators such as James Randi, who has called for Faria to stop victimizing people with stunts and trickery. Joe Nickell has described these procedures as old carnival tricks.\n\nFaria tells people not to stop taking their medicine and says not everyone he serves will be cured. Often the treatment includes capsules containing pure passion flower that he says carry special blessed spiritual energy to support the individual's healing process. Faria has undergone trials and scrutiny of his work. He has been arrested several times for practicing medicine without a licence and has been jailed once.\n\nFaria has travelled to other countries to perform healing ceremonies called Live Events. Gail Thackray, Casa Medium said in her book \"Spiritual Journeys: Visiting John of God\" that the main entities that incorporate in Brazil are the same ones at Live Events, along with thousands of other entities doing healing work.\n\nBecause of the medical laws around the world, blessed water instead of the herbs is prescribed. It is available for about $3 a bottle. Everyone who receives a spiritual intervention must drink this blessed water.\n\nOn July 14, 2005, the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) ran a news report about Faria on \"Primetime Live\". The programme featured five people with various medical conditions, including chronic fatigue syndrome, Lou Gehrig's disease and an inoperable brain tumour. Each patient saw Faria and ABC claimed that in three of the cases there had been an improvement. A young female athlete who had been paraplegic was shown beginning to move her legs.\n\nABC's update on the five subjects, while not mentioning subject Mary Hendrickson, indicated that one subject is making either slow progress or none at all, two are worse, and one shows improvement. Subject David Ames died from complications July 16, 2008. And despite undergoing Faria's psychic surgery and being declared cured, Lisa Melman's breast cancer got progressively worse. She stated the tumor had grown and became painful. She continued to suffer and died in 2012.\n\nSkeptic James Randi spent about an hour in New York being interviewed and taped for the report. James Randi later critiqued ABC for having cherry-picked his comments to show more credibility for the 'faith-healer' than justified. Randi went on to have given scientific explanations for all the activities observed. Randi revealed the natural explanations for activities ranging from putting forceps in the nose, random cutting of the flesh, 'scraping' of the eyeball, the subsequent absence of infection, and other activities one by one as age old parlor tricks. However, he was dismayed that none of his critical comments were shown in the final segment. This was cut down to under 20 seconds of screen time.\n\n2010 Show 'Leap of Faith: Meet John of God\n\nOn November 17, 2010, Susan Casey wrote in \"\" about her trip to see Faria in Brazil and was subsequently covered on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\". The article was entitled \"Leap of Faith: Meet John of God\". The show was entitled \"Do You Believe in Miracles?\". In both, she discusses her need to deal with the traumatic loss of her father. After he suddenly died in 2008, Casey experienced a \"tsunami of grief\" that she says she couldn't escape from. She wondered if Faria could help heal her grief. She met him twice and later stated, \"Three hours went by like 20 minutes, and it was blissful--it was like I was floating.\" Casey claims she was able to speak with her dead father. \"It was very real,\" she says. \"More of a vision than I had ever had before. ... I got this feeling like I shouldn't be sad, that everything was okay.\"\n\nWhile Casey stated that the whole experience sounds unusual, she claimed that she is \"not a woo-woo person\" and that Faria helped her find healing. Casey stated that she was a neutral observer. Jeff Rediger, a psychiatrist from Harvard Medical School in Boston, was provided as a skeptic. Rediger was astonished to discover bleeding from his torso after \"invisible\" surgery. The show did not provide scientific or medical explanations for the procedures performed. There is no established medical or scientific reasoning for these procedures. In depth critical investigative reports followed this broadcast.\n\n2013 Oprah's Next Chapter: 'John of God'\nOn March 17, 2013, \"Oprah's Next Chapter\", Season 2, Episode 116, aired a televised show entitled 'John of God'. Oprah traveled to Brazil to meet and talk with Faria, and see his unexplained miracles firsthand. She also interviewed Magnus Kemppii, from Sweden, about his 'surgery' and five Americans who hope to be cured from their ailments.\n\nOn the December 22, 2010, episode of CNN's \"AC360\", Sanjay Gupta interviewed two of the commentators Oprah Winfrey had sent to meet Faria. No medical or scientific evidence was provided to substantiate their remarks. Critical investigative reports followed the broadcast.\n\nFaria's first visit to Australia and a 'Live Event' scheduled November 22–24, 2014 at the Sydney Showground in Sydney Olympic Park garnered much media attention.\n\nAfter visiting Faria at his \"Casa\" in Abadiânia, Brazil, the Australian 60 Minutes television program aired a critical investigative report on 25 October 2014, examining Faria's healing treatment practices, the amount of money being made and raising questions about sexual assault allegations against him. The two-part program hosted by reporter Michael Usher was a follow-up to Liz Hayes' 1998 investigation of Faria.\n\nIn Part 1 of the follow-up, reporter Michael Usher revealed that a woman declared as cured of breast cancer by a spirit entity channeled by Faria died in 2003. A woman in a wheelchair with multiple sclerosis, who in the 1998 report said she visited Faria with the expectation of walking again, didn’t feel any effect, is still in a wheelchair, and her condition deteriorated. Her trip to the Casa cost $5,000. Usher reported that none of the other people (forty Australians) who made the pilgrimage that Hayes joined for investigation improved.\n\nUsher’s report mentioned that some of the thousands in Faria's audience hope to receive “spiritual surgery” from him. In an extended interview, Emergency medicine specialist Dr. David Rosengren personally examined and reported these practices as horrendous and barbaric, stating: “… the modern medical world could not condone this behavior in any way whatsoever”. The prospect of Faria coming to Australia had also alarmed the Australian Medical Association, reported Ean Higgins, in a 4 October 2014 article in \"The Australian\": “I am extremely sceptical about this person [Mr Faria]; I can find it hard to see any motivation apart from personal profit for him and his organisation,” AMA vice president Stephen Parnis said. “If he undertakes any of these surgical procedures they should be reported to the health complaints commission ...\"\n\nIn Part 2 of his report, Usher stated that there were two deaths in recent years at the Casa that warranted investigations, but no one was charged. He also reported that in 2010, when Faria visited Sedona, Arizona, the police department investigated him because a woman said he took her hands and placed them on his genitals; Faria also tried to pull down her skirt. The case never went to court; one of his associates encouraged the woman to drop the allegations.\n\nThe Catholic Church, through its representative Rev. Brian Lucas, issued an televised verbal warning, stating \"John of God doesn't have any official affiliation with the Catholic Church\". He cautioned all to be very skeptical of people seeking publicity with claims of miracles and faith healing, more so when there is a lot of money involved.\n\nOn July 22, 2016, The Montreal Gazette published a report on John of God, \"Brazilian 'healer' John of God leads cancer patients by the nose\", by columnist Dr Joe Schwarcz, accompanied by a video report from 'Dr Joe's' The Right Chemistry series.\nSchwarcz is an author and a professor at McGill University in Montreal, Quebec. He is the director of McGill's Office for Science & Society, which is dedicated to demystifying science for the public.\nThe report starts by detailing Faria's life history as a medium and psychic surgeon. It then examines his practice and supposed treatments, such as the 'Up Your Nose' surgery to treat cancers. The report criticised this as quackery highlighting the resulting death of Lisa Melman. \nSchwarcz also criticised Faria's choices of treatment for his own health problems.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41830337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41830337", "title": "Los Angeles Prehospital Stroke Screen (LAPSS)", "text": "Los Angeles Prehospital Stroke Screen (LAPSS)\n\nThe Los Angeles Prehospital Stroke Screen (LAPSS) is a method of identifying potential stroke patients in a pre-hospital setting.\n\nIf all of these criteria are met (or not ascertainable) the LAPSS is positive for stroke. Patients may still be experiencing a stroke even if LAPSS criteria are not met.\n\nA January 2000 study, conducted by 3 teams of Los Angeles-based paramedic units resulted in \"sensitivity of 91% (95% CI, 76% to 98%), specificity of 97% (95% CI, 93% to 99%), positive predictive value of 86% (95% CI, 70% to 95%), and negative predictive value of 98% (95% CI, 95% to 99%). With correction for the 4 documentation errors, positive predictive value increased to 97% (95% CI, 84% to 99%).\"\n\nIn a Chinese study, Beijing paramedics using the protocol, completed LAPSS screenings in an average of 4.3±3.0 minutes (median, 5 minutes). The study resulted in a sensitivity of 78.44% and a specificity of 90.22%.\n\n"}
{"id": "54439561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54439561", "title": "Luz Chavita", "text": "Luz Chavita\n\nLuz Chavita (1880–?) was the stage name of Luisa Lacalle, a Spanish dancer who gained international fame during the Belle Époque and was a leading dancer in Paris before returning to Spain to become an entrepreneur.\n\nLuisa Lacalle was born in 1880 in Jerez de la Frontera, Spain to a poor family originally from Seville. Showing promise for dancing at an early age, she began taking dancing classes with Juana la Macarrona. By the time she was fourteen, Lacalle was dancing professionally using the artistic name Lulu or Luz Chavita. Having gained a reputation for her talent, she moved to Paris with a letter for introduction for the Count de Pradere (also known as Daniel de Carbalho y de Prat). Pradere introduced her to Antonin Perivier and , the directors of the newspaper \"Le Figaro\". The pair frequently gave entertainments for aristocratic subscribers and invited Chavita to appear. Almost overnight, she became a sensation and was proclaimed as a new star.\n\nBefore her official debut, Chavita studied with Madame Mariquita, where she studied for the next two years. Soon after, she had her official debut at La Scala and from there she went to the Folies Bergère, where she was hired along with Juanita de Frezia, La Belle Gerrero, and Mlle Hernandez, to dance their Spanish repertoire which showed off their décolletage and bare legs. She toured Europe, visiting Berlin, Budapest, London, Vienna and other major cities and then was engaged at El Alcázar in Marseilles. By 1898, she was among the soloists performing at the Ballet de l'Opéra Comique along with such dancers as , , Jeanne Chasles, Cléo de Mérode and Stacia Napierkowska. The theater soon earned the reputation as the \"most artistic of Paris\".\nAt another of \"Le Figaro\"′s entertainments in 1899, Chavita enhanced her fame even more. The newspaper had sided with Alfred Dreyfus and agreed to publish documents which would impact the government handling of the Dreyfus affair. The police planned a raid to confiscate the documents, but when they arrived, Chavita began her performance, delaying the search until the documents could be safely hidden. The story was retold in newspapers ranging from Madrid to the United States. Other noted performances at the Opéra-Comique were her portrayal of \"Carmen\" in 1901 and in \"la Danse au temps de Gavarni\" (The Dance in the Time of Gavarni) in 1903 in which her polka was called exquisite.\n\nChavita saved all of her earnings, investing them carefully, and announced her retirement from the stage in 1905. She reconfirmed she was leaving Paris in 1908 and returned to Seville, where she bought real estate on Santa Clara Street, and later another house on Goyonetta Street. She outfitted her homes with modern refinements from Paris, took care of her parents in their old age, and purchased a vineyard in Jerez, which she administered for many years.\n\nChavita's death date is unknown. In 1905, the ceiling of Paillard Restaurant of Paris, where aristocrats and royalty gathered to dine was painted with a tribute called \"Women of the Twentieth Century\" by Lucien-Victor Guirand de Scévola. Chavita's was one of the likenesses that was included.\n\n"}
{"id": "1505399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1505399", "title": "Lying in state", "text": "Lying in state\n\nLying in state is the tradition in which the body of a dead official is placed in a state building, either outside or inside a coffin, to allow the public to pay their respects. It traditionally takes place in the principal government building of a country, state, or city. While the practice differs among countries, a viewing in a location other than the principal government building may be referred to as lying in repose.\n\nIn Canada, official lying in state is a part of a state funeral, an honor generally reserved for former Governors General and former Prime Ministers. It is held in the Centre Block of Parliament Hill, in the national capital, Ottawa, Ontario. Ex-governors general lie in state in the Senate Chamber while former prime ministers lie in the Hall of Honour. During the period of lying in state, the coffins are flanked at each corner by a Guard of honour, made up of four members drawn from the Canadian Forces and Royal Canadian Mounted Police, as well as members of the Governor General's Foot Guards for former governors general, and guards from the parliamentary security forces for former prime ministers. Guards stand at each corner with heads bowed and weapons inverted (resting on Arms reversed) with their backs turned towards the casket.\n\nProvinces may also mount state funerals and have a lying in state for a distinguished former resident. For instance, Maurice Richard, nationally known hockey player, was given a state funeral by the province of Quebec when he died in 2000; his coffin lay in state at the Molson Centre. This process was repeated for fellow Canadiens legend Jean Béliveau in December 2014.\n\nMunicipalities may offer civic funerals to prominent deceased current or former politicians.\n\nIn North Korea, the body of the late leader Kim Jong-il was displayed in a glass coffin surrounded with red flowers at the Kumsusan Memorial Palace in Pyongyang prior to his funeral, which began and ended at the palace. An honor guard armed with AK-47s was present. Jong-il's father Kim Il-sung, the founding president, is on display elsewhere in the palace.\n\nIn Russia, during the time of the Soviet Union (1917–1991), the state funerals of the most senior political and military leaders, such as Vladimir Lenin, Joseph Stalin, Leonid Brezhnev, Yuri Andropov, and Konstantin Chernenko all followed the same basic outline. They took place in Moscow, beginning with a public lying in state of the deceased in the House of the Unions, and ending with an interment at Red Square.\n\nFor the lying in state at the House of the Unions, the coffin would be placed on display in the Column Hall, which would be decorated by flowers, numerous red flags and other communist symbols. The mourners, which usually would be brought in by the thousands, shuffled up a marble staircase beneath chandeliers draped in black gauze. On the stage at the left side of the Column Hall, a full orchestra in black tailcoats played classical music. The deceased's embalmed body, dressed in a black suit, white shirt and a tie, was displayed in an open coffin on a catafalque banked with carnations, red roses and tulips, facing the queue of mourners. A small guard of honour would be in attendance in the background. At the right side of the hall, seats were placed for guests of honour, with the front row reserved for the dead leader's family.\n\nOn the day of the funeral, a military funeral parade would take place during which the coffin would be conveyed from the House of the Unions to Red Square where burial would take place. Lenin and Stalin were placed inside the Lenin Mausoleum, while Brezhnev, Andropov, and Chernenko were interred in individual graves in the Kremlin Wall Necropolis.\n\nAt state funerals in Singapore, the national flag is put on the coffin. The vigil guard may be deployed during the public lying in state of the deceased person at Parliament House. The deployment of the vigil guard is the highest form of respect accorded by the nation to the deceased. Similar to British traditions, the vigil guard is composed of groups of five commissioned officers from the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF) and Singapore Police Force (SPF) who stand guard around the clock in shifts of 30 minutes. One of the five officers stands facing outward at each of the four corners of the casket, while the fifth and most senior one stands in front and faces inward. Their heads are bowed and their ceremonial swords are inverted.\n\nVigil guards were stationed at the public lying in state of Goh Keng Swee in May 2010, Lee Kuan Yew in March 2015 as well as S R Nathan in August 2016. \n\nNelson Mandela was the first democratically elected president to lie in state in South Africa. The event took place at the Union Buildings, the same site where he was inaugurated as the President of South Africa on May 10, 1994. The body of Mandela was lying in State for three days, starting on Wednesday, December 11, 2013 and ending Friday, December 13. The body was viewed by thousands of South Africans before it was airlifted to Qunu in the Eastern Cape where Mandela was buried on December 15, 2013.\n\nIn state and ceremonial funerals in the United Kingdom, the lying-in-state takes place in Westminster Hall. The coffin is placed on a catafalque and is guarded, around the clock, by detachments, each of four men, from the following units:\n\nEach unit mans the guard for a total of six hours, with each detachment standing post for twenty minutes. The four men stand at each corner with heads bowed and weapons inverted; their backs are turned towards the coffin.\n\nOn two occasions, the guard has been mounted by four male members of the Royal Family. At the lying in state of King George V in 1936, the guard was mounted by his four sons King Edward VIII, the Duke of York (George VI), the Duke of Gloucester and the Duke of Kent. For Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother's lying-in-state in 2002, the guard was mounted by her four grandsons, the Prince of Wales, the Duke of York, the Earl of Wessex, and Viscount Linley.\n\nLying in state in the United States is the rare honor either authorized by a congressional resolution or approved by the congressional leadership, when permission is granted by survivors, to a deceased official whereby his or her remains are placed in the rotunda of the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. for public viewing. The casket is guarded by members of the armed forces. By regulation and custom, only Presidents, military commanders, and members of Congress are granted the honor of lying in state. Except for Presidents and former Presidents, the honor is not automatic. Not all those entitled to the honor have it accepted by their survivors. The first leader to receive this honor was Henry Clay, former Speaker of the House of Representatives, when he died in 1852. Since then, the honor has been extended to 31 people, including eleven Presidents, and to 4 Unknown Soldiers, representing U.S. service members who have died without their remains being identified. An additional four individuals have lain in honor, a similar privileged.\n\nThe process of lying in state at the Capitol is as follows. The coffin or casket is usually placed on a catafalque, usually the Lincoln catafalque, so named as it was constructed for lying in state upon the death of Abraham Lincoln, after his assassination in 1865. The casket is guarded at each of its corners by a serviceperson from each of the branches of the armed forces. In contrast to the practice in the United Kingdom and other countries of the Commonwealth, guards at the Capitol face the casket, hold their rifles with their right hand, and keep the rifle butt resting on the floor. After the viewing and ceremony at the Capitol, the remains are taken to the burial location.\n\n\nTo date, William Howard Taft and Robert Taft are the only father-and-son pair to have been so honored.\n\nThe United States Congress has created a similar—though not identical—privilege for distinguished Americans who do not qualify for a lying in state designation. In the process of \"lying in honor,\" the honor guard in the Rotunda is provided by the Capitol Police or another suitable source.\n\nIn 1998, Chestnut and Gibson were killed while defending the Capitol against a shooter. Congress approved their remains to lie in honor in the Rotunda. Chestnut was the first African American to lie in honor. In 2005, upon the death of civil rights activist Rosa Parks, Congress authorized her remains to lie in honor at the Rotunda; Parks was the second African American and the first woman to lie in honor in the Capitol Rotunda. Graham was the first religious leader to be honored in this way.\n\nSupreme Court Justices \"lie in repose\" in the Great Hall of the United States Supreme Court Building. \n\nSome U.S. states and cities extend similar honors. For example, in the state of Hawaii, three people have been laid in state at the Hawaii State Capitol, among which include famous Hawaiian singer Israel Kamakawiwoʻole upon his death in 1997, and the aforementioned Daniel Inouye, President pro tempore of the U.S. Senate and Senator from Hawaii. Similarly, after the death of U.S. Senator John McCain, it was announced that he would lie in state at the State Capitol in his home state of Arizona before receiving the same honor at the U.S. Capitol.\n\nIn the City of San Francisco, California, Mayor Ed Lee laid in state at the Rotunda of San Francisco City Hall after his death in office in 2017.\n\nA deceased pope customarily lies in state in the chapel of the Apostolic Palace and then in St. Peter's Basilica, between the holding of a Mass of Visitation and a Mass of Requiem. The funeral of Pope John Paul II was an example of this custom.\n\nThe Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria has a tradition of mummifying the deceased pope and placing his body on his throne to enable church followers to have a farewell look at him for a short period of time.\nThis tradition is one of the ways that ancient Egyptian rituals have survived in the Egyptian church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19483882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19483882", "title": "Mental world", "text": "Mental world\n\nThe mental world is an ontological category in metaphysics, populated by nonmaterial mental objects, without physical extension (though possibly with mental extension as in a visual field, or possibly not, as in an olfactory field) contrasted with the physical world of space and time populated with physical objects, or Plato's world of ideals populated, in part, with mathematical objects. \n\nThe mental world may be populated with, or framed with, intentions, sensory fields, and corresponding objects.\n\nThe mental world is usually considered to be subjective and not objective.\n\nIn psychologism, mathematical objects are mental objects.\n\nDescartes argued for a mental world as separate from the physical world. Debates regarding free will include how it could be possible for anything in the mental world to have an effect on the physical world. In various forms of Epiphenomenalism, the physical world can cause effects in the mental world, but not conversely. Behaviorists deny that a mental world can be meaningfully referred to.\n\nReasoning laws about a mental world are different than the ones for a physical world. In particular, individuals with autism experience substantial difficulties in the former but perform relatively well in the latter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2190718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190718", "title": "Mindstream", "text": "Mindstream\n\nMindstream (\"citta-santāna\") in Buddhist philosophy is the moment-to-moment continuum (Sanskrit: \"saṃtāna\") of sense impressions and mental phenomena, which is also described as continuing from one life to another.\n\n\"\" (Sanskrit), literally \"the stream of mind\", is the stream of succeeding moments of mind or awareness. It provides a continuity of the personality in the absence of a permanently abiding \"self\" (ātman), which Buddhism denies. The mindstream provides a continuity from one life to another, akin to the flame of a candle which may be passed from one candle to another: \nAccording to Waldron, \nThe vāsanās (karmic imprints) provide the karmic continuity between lives and between moments. According to Lusthaus, these \"vasanas\" determine how one \n\n\"Citta\" holds the semantic field of \"that which is conscious\", \"the act of mental apprehension known as ordinary consciousness\", \"the conventional and relative mind/heart\". \"Citta\" has two aspects: \"...Its two aspects are attending to and collecting of impressions or traces (Sanskrit: \"vāsanā\") cf. \"vijñāna\".\" \"\" or \"santāna\" (Sanskrit) holds the semantic field of \"eternal\", \"continuum\", \"a series of momentary events\" or \"life-stream\".\n\n\"Citta\" is often rendered as \"sems\" in Tibetan and saṃtāna corresponds to \"rgyud\", which holds the semantic field of \"continuum\", \"stream\", and \"thread\"-- is therefore rendered \"sems rgyud.\" \"Rgyud\" is the term that Tibetan translators (Tibetan: \"lotsawa\") employed to render the Sanskrit term \"tantra\".\n\n\"Thugs-rgyud\" is a synonym for \"sems rgyud\"--\"Thugs\" holds the semantic field: \"Buddha-mind\", \"(enlightened) mind\", \"mind\", \"soul\", \"spirit\", \"purpose\", \"intention\", \"unbiased perspective\", \"spirituality\", \"responsiveness\", \"spiritual significance\", \"awareness\", \"primordial (state, experience)\", \"enlightened mind\", \"heart\", \"breast\", \"feelings\" and is sometimes a homonym of \"citta\" (Sanskrit). \"Thugs-rgyud\" holds the semantic field \"wisdom\", \"transmission\", \"heart-mind continuum\", \"mind\", \"[continuum/ stream of mind]\" and \"nature of mind.\"\n\nThe Chinese equivalent of Sanskrit \"citta-saṃtāna\" and Tibetan \"sems-kyi rgyud\" (\"mindstream\") is \"xin xiangxu\" (). According to the \"Digital Dictionary of Buddhism\", \"xīn xiāngxù\" means \"continuance of the mental stream\" (from Sanskrit \"citta-saṃtāna\" or \"citta-saṃtati\"), contrasted with \"wú xiàngxù\" 無相續 \"no continuity of the mental stream\" (from \"asaṃtāna\" or \"asaṃdhi\") and \"shì xiāngxù\" 識相續 \"stream of consciousness\" (from \"vijñāna-saṃtāna\").\n\nThis compound combines \"xin\" \"heart; mind; thought; conscience; core\" and \"xiangxu\" \"succeed each other\", with \"xiang\" \"each other; one another; mutual; reciprocal\" and \"xu\" or \"continue; carry on; succeed\". Thus it means \"thoughts succeeding each other\".\n\n\"Xin xiangxu\" is pronounced \"sim sangsok\" in Korean and \"shin sōzoku\" in Japanese.\n\nThe notion of \"citta-santāna\" developed in later Yogacara-thought, where \"citta-santāna\" replaced the notion of ālayavijñāna, the store-house consciousness in which the karmic seeds were stored. It is not a \"permanent, unchanging, transmigrating entity\", like the atman, but a series of momentary consciousnesses.\n\nLusthaus describes the development and doctrinal relationships of the store consciousness (\"ālaya-vijñāna\") and Buddha nature (\"tathāgatagarbha\") in Yogācāra. To avoid reification of the \"ālaya-vijñāna\",\nDharmakīrti (fl. 7th century) wrote a treatise on the nature of the mind stream in his \"Substantiation of Other mind streams\" (\"Saṃtãnãntarasiddhi\"). According to Dharmakirti the mind stream was beginningless temporal sequence.\n\nThe notion of mind stream was further developed in Vajrayāna (tantric Buddhism), where \"mind stream\" (\"sems-rgyud\") may be understood as a stream of succeeding moments, within a lifetime, but also in-between lifetimes. The 14th Dalai Lama holds it to be a continuum of consciousness, extending over succeeding lifetimes, though without a self or soul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5947169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5947169", "title": "Neopets: Petpet Adventures: The Wand of Wishing", "text": "Neopets: Petpet Adventures: The Wand of Wishing\n\nNeopets: Petpet Adventures: The Wand of Wishing is an action video game, released on March 14, 2006. It is a single-player PlayStation Portable action/adventure game based on the Neopets franchise.\n\nThere are four playable Petpets: Doglefox, Krawk, Mazzew, and Meowclops. Throughout the game, the player can acquire items such as swords, staves, wands, magic spells, and armor for the head and body. It can then be customized with the items. As an anthropomorphic Petpet from Neopia, the player must find and utilize various items. There is no experience or leveling up to improve the petpet. Instead, tokens have to be won by paying a fee and challenging bosses in the Battledome. Once a player has the correct token for a particular statistic, it then can be used at a trainer. Also available in the Battledome is a wireless feature where a player's Petpet can fight his friends'. If Ad Hoc multiplayer is used, the entrance fee is removed and the winner still receives the token corresponding to the battledome challenged in.\n\nThe game takes place in the hidden Petpet world of Petaria, in which the player must retrieve the magical \"Wand of Wishing\" in order to succeed as a warrior.\n\nIGN praised the game for its cute protagonists and outdoing typical expectations of a franchise game. However, there is criticism of imbalance, such as the difficulty when starting off and the overpowering bows that can be acquired.\n"}
{"id": "69785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69785", "title": "Pelican", "text": "Pelican\n\nPelicans are a genus of large water birds that make up the family Pelecanidae. They are characterised by a long beak and a large throat pouch used for catching prey and draining water from the scooped-up contents before swallowing. They have predominantly pale plumage, the exceptions being the brown and Peruvian pelicans. The bills, pouches, and bare facial skin of all species become brightly coloured before the breeding season. The eight living pelican species have a patchy global distribution, ranging latitudinally from the tropics to the temperate zone, though they are absent from interior South America and from polar regions and the open ocean.\n\nLong thought to be related to frigatebirds, cormorants, tropicbirds, and gannets and boobies, pelicans instead are now known to be most closely related to the shoebill and hamerkop, and are placed in the order Pelecaniformes. Ibises, spoonbills, herons, and the desolate bitterns have been classified in the same order. Fossil evidence of pelicans dates back at least 30 million years to the remains of a beak very similar to that of modern species recovered from Oligocene strata in France. They are thought to have evolved in the Old World and spread into the Americas; this is reflected in the relationships within the genus as the eight species divide into Old World and New World lineages.\n\nPelicans frequent inland and coastal waters, where they feed principally on fish, catching them at or near the water surface. They are gregarious birds, travelling in flocks, hunting cooperatively, and breeding colonially. Four white-plumaged species tend to nest on the ground, and four brown or grey-plumaged species nest mainly in trees. The relationship between pelicans and people has often been contentious. The birds have been persecuted because of their perceived competition with commercial and recreational fishing. Their populations have fallen through habitat destruction, disturbance, and environmental pollution, and three species are of conservation concern. They also have a long history of cultural significance in mythology, and in Christian and heraldic iconography.\n\nThe genus \"Pelecanus\" was first formally described by Linnaeus in 1758 in the tenth edition of his \"Systema Naturae\"'. He described the distinguishing characteristics as a straight bill hooked at the tip, linear nostrils, a bare face, and fully webbed feet. This early definition included frigatebirds, cormorants, and sulids, as well as pelicans. The name comes from the Ancient Greek word \"pelekan\" (πελεκάν), which is itself derived from the word \"pelekys\" (πέλεκυς) meaning \"axe\". In classical times, the word was applied to both the pelican and the woodpecker.\n\nThe family Pelecanidae was introduced (as Pelicanea) by the French polymath Constantine Samuel Rafinesque in 1815.\nPelicans give their name to the Pelecaniformes, an order which has a varied taxonomic history. Tropicbirds, darters, cormorants, gannets, boobies, and frigatebirds, all traditional members of the order, have since been reclassified: tropicbirds into their own order, Phaethontiformes, and the remainder into the Suliformes. In their place, herons, ibises, spoonbills, the hamerkop, and the shoebill have now been transferred into the Pelecaniformes. Molecular evidence suggests that the shoebill and the hamerkop form a sister group to the pelicans, though some doubt exists as to the exact relationships among the three lineages.\n\nThe eight living pelican species were traditionally divided into two groups, one containing four ground-nesters with mainly white adult plumage (Australian, Dalmatian, great white, and American white pelicans), and one containing four grey- or brown-plumaged species which nest preferentially either in trees (pink-backed, spot-billed and brown pelicans), or on sea rocks (Peruvian pelican). The largely marine brown and Peruvian pelicans, formerly considered conspecific, are sometimes separated from the others by placement in the subgenus \"Leptopelicanus\" but in fact species with both sorts of appearance and nesting behavior are found in either.\n\nDNA sequencing of both mitochondrial and nuclear genes yielded quite different relationships; the three New World pelicans formed one lineage, with the American white pelican sister to the two brown pelicans, and the five Old World species the other. The Dalmatian, pink-backed, and spot-billed were all closely related to one another, while the Australian white pelican was their next-closest relative. The great white pelican also belonged to this lineage, but was the first to diverge from the common ancestor of the other four species. This finding suggests that pelicans evolved in the Old World and spread into the Americas, and that preference for tree- or ground-nesting is more related to size than genetics.\n\nThe fossil record shows that the pelican lineage has existed for at least 30 million years; the oldest known pelican fossil was found in Early Oligocene deposits at the Luberon in southeastern France, and is remarkably similar to modern forms. Its beak is almost complete and is morphologically identical to that of present-day pelicans, showing that this advanced feeding apparatus was already in existence at the time. An Early Miocene fossil has been named \"Miopelecanus gracilis\" on the basis of certain features originally considered unique, but later thought to lie within the range of interspecific variation in \"Pelecanus\". The Late Eocene \"Protopelicanus\" may be a pelecaniform or suliform – or a similar aquatic bird such as a pseudotooth (Pelagornithidae). The supposed Miocene pelican \"Liptornis\" from Patagonia is a \"nomen dubium\" (of doubtful validity), being based on fragments providing insufficient evidence to support a valid description.\n\nFossil finds from North America have been meagre compared with Europe, which has a richer fossil record. Several \"Pelecanus\" species have been described from fossil material, including:\n\nPelicans are very large birds with very long bills characterised by a downcurved hook at the end of the upper mandible, and the attachment of a huge gular pouch to the lower. The slender rami of the lower bill and the flexible tongue muscles form the pouch into a basket for catching fish, and sometimes rainwater, though not to hinder the swallowing of large fish, the tongue itself is tiny. They have a long neck and short stout legs with large, fully webbed feet. Although they are among the heaviest of flying birds, they are relatively light for their apparent bulk because of air pockets in the skeleton and beneath the skin, enabling them to float high in the water. The tail is short and square. The wings are long and broad, suitably shaped for soaring and gliding flight, and have the unusually large number of 30 to 35 secondary flight feathers.\n\nMales are generally larger than females and have longer bills. The smallest species is the brown pelican, small individuals of which can be no more than and long, with a wingspan of as little as . The largest is believed to be the Dalmatian, at up to and in length, with a maximum wingspan of . The Australian pelican's bill may grow up to long in large males, the longest of any bird.\n\nPelicans have mainly light-coloured plumage, the exceptions being the brown and Peruvian pelicans. The bills, pouches, and bare facial skin of all species become brighter before breeding season commences. The throat pouch of the Californian subspecies of the brown pelican turns bright red, and fades to yellow after the eggs are laid, while the throat pouch of the Peruvian pelican turns blue. The American white pelican grows a prominent knob on its bill that is shed once females have laid eggs. The plumage of immature pelicans is darker than that of adults. Newly hatched chicks are naked and pink, darkening to grey or black after 4 to 14 days, then developing a covering of white or grey down.\n\nAnatomical dissections of two brown pelicans in 1939 showed that pelicans have a network of subcutaneous air sacs under their skin situated across the ventral surface including the throat, breast, and undersides of the wings, as well as having air sacs in their bones. The air sacs are connected to the airways of the respiratory system, and the pelican can keep its air sacs inflated by closing its glottis, but how air sacs are inflated is not clear. The air sacs serve to keep the pelican remarkably buoyant in the water and may also cushion the impact of the pelican's body on the water surface when they dive from flight into water to catch fish. Superficial air sacs may also help to round body contours (especially over the abdomen, where surface protuberances may be caused by viscera changing size and position) to enable the overlying feathers to form more effective heat insulation and also to enable feathers to be held in position for good aerodynamics.\n\nModern pelicans are found on all continents except Antarctica. They primarily inhabit warm regions, although breeding ranges extend to latitudes of 45° South (Australian pelicans in Tasmania) and 60° North (American white pelicans in western Canada). Birds of inland and coastal waters, they are absent from polar regions, the deep ocean, oceanic islands (except the Galapagos), and inland South America, as well as from the eastern coast of South America from the mouth of the Amazon River southwards. Subfossil bones have been recovered from as far south as New Zealand's South Island, although their scarcity and isolated occurrence suggests that these remains may have merely been vagrants from Australia (much as is the case today).\n\nPelicans swim well with their strong legs and their webbed feet. They rub the backs of their heads on their preen glands to pick up an oily secretion, which they transfer to their plumage to waterproof it. Holding their wings only loosely against their bodies, pelicans float with relatively little of their bodies below the water surface. They dissipate excess heat by gular flutter – rippling the skin of the throat and pouch with the bill open to promote evaporative cooling. They roost and loaf communally on beaches, sandbanks, and in shallow water.\n\nA fibrous layer deep in the breast muscles can hold the wings rigidly horizontal for gliding and soaring. Thus, they use thermals for soaring to heights of 3000 m (10,000 ft) or more, combined both with gliding and with flapping flight in V formation, to commute distances up to to feeding areas. Pelicans also fly low (or \"skim\") over stretches of water, using a phenomenon known as ground effect to reduce drag and increase lift. As the air flows between the wings and the water surface, it is compressed to a higher density and exerts a stronger upward force against the bird above. Hence, substantial energy is saved while flying.\n\nAdult pelicans rely on visual displays and behaviour to communicate, particularly using their wings and bills. Agonistic behaviour consists of thrusting and snapping at opponents with their bills, or lifting and waving their wings in a threatening manner. Adult pelicans grunt when at the colony, but are generally silent elsewhere or outside breeding season. Conversely, colonies are noisy, as chicks vocalise extensively.\n\nPelicans are gregarious and nest colonially. Pairs are monogamous for a single season, but the pair bond extends only to the nesting area; mates are independent away from the nest. The ground-nesting (white) species have a complex communal courtship involving a group of males chasing a single female in the air, on land, or in the water while pointing, gaping, and thrusting their bills at each other. They can finish the process in a day. The tree-nesting species have a simpler process in which perched males advertise for females. The location of the breeding colony is constrained by the availability of an ample supply of fish to eat, although pelicans can use thermals to soar and commute for hundreds of kilometres daily to fetch food.\n\nThe Australian pelican has two reproductive strategies depending on the local degree of environmental predictability. Colonies of tens or hundreds, rarely thousands, of birds breed regularly on small coastal and subcoastal islands where food is seasonally or permanently available. In arid inland Australia, especially in the endorheic Lake Eyre basin, pelicans breed opportunistically in very large numbers of up to 50,000 pairs, when irregular major floods, which may be many years apart, fill ephemeral salt lakes and provide large amounts of food for several months before drying out again.\n\nIn all species, copulation takes place at the nest site; it begins shortly after pairing and continues for 3–10 days before egg-laying. The male brings the nesting material, in ground-nesting species (which may not build a nest) sometimes in the pouch, and in tree-nesting species crosswise in the bill. The female then heaps the material up to form a simple structure.\n\nThe eggs are oval, white, and coarsely textured. All species normally lay at least two eggs; the usual clutch size is one to three, rarely up to six. Both sexes incubate with the eggs on top of or below the feet; they may display when changing shifts. Incubation takes 30–36 days; hatching success for undisturbed pairs can be as high as 95%, but because of sibling competition or siblicide, in the wild, usually all but one nestling dies within the first few weeks (later in the pink-backed and spot-billed species). Both parents feed their young. Small chicks are fed by regurgitation; after about a week, they are able to put their heads into their parents' pouches and feed themselves. Sometimes before, or especially after, being fed, they may seem to have a seizure that ends in falling unconscious; the reason is not clearly known.\n\nParents of ground-nesting species sometimes drag older young around roughly by the head before feeding them. From about 25 days old, the young of these species gather in \"pods\" or \"crèches\" of up to 100 birds in which parents recognise and feed only their own offspring. By 6–8 weeks they wander around, occasionally swimming, and may practise communal feeding. Young of all species fledge 10–12 weeks after hatching. They may remain with their parents afterwards, but are now seldom or never fed. They are mature at three or four years old. Overall breeding success is highly variable. Pelicans live for 15 to 25 years in the wild, although one reached an age of 54 years in captivity.\n\nThe diet of pelicans usually consists of fish, but occasionally amphibians, turtles, crustaceans, insects, birds, and mammals are also eaten. The size of the preferred prey fish varies depending on pelican species and location. For example, in Africa, the pink-backed pelican generally takes fish ranging in size from fry up to and the great white pelican prefers somewhat larger fish, up to , but in Europe, the latter species has been recorded taking fish up to . In deep water, white pelicans often fish alone. Nearer the shore, several encircle schools of small fish or form a line to drive them into the shallows, beating their wings on the water surface and then scooping up the prey. Although all pelican species may feed in groups or alone, the Dalmantian, pink-backed, and spot-billed pelicans are the only ones to prefer solitary feeding. When fishing in groups, all pelican species have been known to work together to catch their prey, and Dalmantian pelicans may even cooperate with great cormorants. They catch multiple small fish by expanding the throat pouch, which must be drained above the water surface before swallowing. This operation takes up to a minute, during which time other seabirds may steal the fish.\nLarge fish are caught with the bill-tip, then tossed up in the air to be caught and slid into the gullet head-first. A gull will sometimes stand on the pelican's head, peck it to distraction, and grab a fish from the open bill. Pelicans in their turn sometimes snatch prey from other waterbirds.\n\nThe brown pelican usually plunge-dives head-first for its prey, from a height as great as , especially for anchovies and menhaden. The only other pelican to feed using a similar technique is the Peruvian pelican, but its dives are typically from a lower height than the brown pelican. The Australian and American white pelicans may feed by low plunge-dives landing feet-first and then scooping up the prey with the beak, but they—as well as the remaining pelican species—primarily feed while swimming on the water. Aquatic prey is most commonly taken at or near the water surface. Although principally a fish eater, the Australian pelican is also an eclectic and opportunistic scavenger and carnivore that forages in landfill sites, as well as taking carrion and \"anything from insects and small crustaceans to ducks and small dogs\". Food is not stored in a pelican's throat pouch, contrary to popular folklore.\n\nGreat white pelicans have been observed swallowing city pigeons in St. James's Park in London. Spokeswoman for the Royal Parks Louise Wood opined that feeding on other birds is more likely with captive pelicans that live in a semiurban environment and are in constant close contact with humans. However, in southern Africa, eggs and chicks of the Cape cormorant are an important food source for great white pelicans. Several other bird species have been recorded in the diet of this pelican in South Africa, including Cape gannet chicks on Malgas Island as well as crowned cormorants, kelp gulls, greater crested terns, and African penguins on Dassen Island and elsewhere. The Australian pelican, which is particularly willing to take a wide range of prey items, has been recorded feeding on young Australian white ibis, and young and adult grey teals and silver gulls. Brown pelicans have been reported preying on young common murres in California and the eggs and nestlings of cattle egrets and nestling great egrets in Baja California, Mexico. Peruvian pelicans in Chile have been recorded feeding on nestlings of imperial shags, juvenile Peruvian diving petrels, and grey gulls. Cannibalism of chicks of their own species is known from the Australian, brown, and Peruvian pelicans.\n\nGlobally, pelican populations are adversely affected by these main factors: declining supplies of fish through overfishing or water pollution, destruction of habitat, direct effects of human activity such as disturbance at nesting colonies, hunting and culling, entanglement in fishing lines and hooks, and the presence of pollutants such as DDT and endrin. Most species' populations are more or less stable, although three are classified by the IUCN as being at risk. All species breed readily in zoos, which is potentially useful for conservation management.\n\nThe combined population of brown and Peruvian pelicans is estimated at 650,000 birds, with around 250,000 in the United States and Caribbean, and 400,000 in Peru. The National Audubon Society estimates the global population of the brown pelican at 300,000. Numbers of brown pelican plummeted in the 1950s and 1960s, largely as a consequence of environmental DDT pollution, and the species was listed as endangered in the US in 1970. With restrictions on DDT use in the US from 1972, its population has recovered, and it was delisted in 2009.\n\nThe Peruvian pelican is listed as near threatened because, although the population is estimated by BirdLife International to exceed 500,000 mature individuals, and is possibly increasing, it has been much higher in the past. It declined dramatically during the 1998 El Niño event and could experience similar declines in the future. Conservation needs include regular monitoring throughout the range to determine population trends, particularly after El Niño years, restricting human access to important breeding colonies, and assessing interactions with fisheries.\n\nThe spot-billed pelican has an estimated population between 13,000 and 18,000 and is considered to be near threatened in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Numbers declined substantially during the 20th century, one crucial factor being the eradication of the important Sittaung valley breeding colony in Burma through deforestation and the loss of feeding sites. The chief threats it faces are from habitat loss and human disturbance, but populations have mostly stabilised following increased protection in India and Cambodia.\n\nThe pink-backed pelican has a large population ranging over much of sub-Saharan Africa. In the absence of substantial threats or evidence of declines across its range, its conservation status is assessed as being of least concern. Regional threats include the drainage of wetlands and increasing disturbance in southern Africa. The species is susceptible to bioaccumulation of toxins and the destruction of nesting trees by logging.\n\nThe American white pelican has increased in numbers, with its population estimated at over 157,000 birds in 2005, becoming more numerous east of the continental divide, while declining in the west. However, whether its numbers have been affected by exposure to pesticides is unclear, as it has also lost habitat through wetland drainage and competition with recreational use of lakes and rivers.\nGreat white pelicans range over a large area of Africa and southern Asia. The overall trend in numbers is uncertain, with a mix of regional populations that are increasing, declining, stable, or unknown, but no evidence has been found of rapid overall decline, and the status of the species is assessed as being of least concern. Threats include the drainage of wetlands, persecution and sport hunting, disturbance at the breeding colonies, and contamination by pesticides and heavy metals.\n\nThe Dalmatian pelican has a population estimated at between 10,000 and 20,000 following massive declines in the 19th and 20th centuries. The main ongoing threats include hunting, especially in eastern Asia, disturbance, coastal development, collision with overhead power lines, and the over-exploitation of fish stocks. It is listed as near threatened by the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species as the population trend is downwards, especially in Mongolia, where it is nearly extinct. However, several European colonies are increasing in size and the largest colony for the species, at the Small Prespa Lake in Greece, has reached about 1,400 breeding pairs following conservation measures.\n\nWidespread across Australia, the Australian pelican has a population generally estimated at between 300,000 and 500,000 individuals. Overall population numbers fluctuate widely and erratically depending on wetland conditions and breeding success across the continent. The species is assessed as being of least concern.\n\nPelicans have been persecuted by humans for their perceived competition for fish, despite the fact that their diet overlaps little with fish caught by people. Starting in the 1880s, American white pelicans were clubbed and shot, their eggs and young were deliberately destroyed, and their feeding and nesting sites were degraded by water management schemes and wetland drainage. Even in the 21st century, an increase in the population of American white pelicans in southeastern Idaho in the US was seen to threaten the recreational cutthroat trout fishery there, leading to official attempts to reduce pelican numbers through systematic harassment and culling.\n\nGreat white pelicans on Dyer Island, in the Western Cape region of South Africa, were culled during the 19th century because their predation of the eggs and chicks of guano-producing seabirds was seen to threaten the livelihood of the guano collectors. More recently, such predation at South African seabird colonies has impacted on the conservation of threatened seabird populations, especially crowned cormorants, Cape cormorants, and bank cormorants. This has led to suggestions that pelican numbers should be controlled at vulnerable colonies.\n\nApart from habitat destruction and deliberate, targeted persecution, pelicans are vulnerable to disturbance at their breeding colonies by birdwatchers, photographers, and other curious visitors. Human presence alone can cause the birds to accidentally displace or destroy their eggs, leave hatchlings exposed to predators and adverse weather, or even abandon their colonies completely.\n\nDDT pollution in the environment was a major cause of decline of brown pelican populations in North America in the 1950s and 1960s. It entered the oceanic food web, contaminating and accumulating in several species, including one of the pelican’s primary food fish – the northern anchovy. Its metabolite DDE is a reproductive toxicant in pelicans and many other birds, causing eggshell thinning and weakening, and consequent breeding failure through the eggs being accidentally crushed by brooding birds. Since an effective ban on the use of DDT was implemented in the US in 1972, the eggshells of breeding brown pelicans there have thickened and their populations have largely recovered.\n\nIn the late 1960s, following the major decline in brown pelican numbers in Louisiana from DDT poisoning, 500 pelicans were imported from Florida to augment and re-establish the population; over 300 subsequently died in April and May 1975 from poisoning by the pesticide endrin. About 14,000 pelicans, including 7500 American white pelicans, perished from botulism after eating fish from the Salton Sea in 1990. In 1991, abnormal numbers of brown pelicans and Brandt's cormorants died at Santa Cruz, California, when their food fish (anchovies) were contaminated with neurotoxic domoic acid, produced by the diatom \"Pseudo-nitzschia\".\n\nAs waterbirds that feed on fish, pelicans are highly susceptible to oil spills, both directly by being oiled and by the impact on their food resources. A 2007 report to the California Fish and Game Commission estimated that during the previous 20 years, some 500–1000 brown pelicans had been affected by oil spills in California. A 2011 report by the Center for Biological Diversity, a year after the April 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill, said that 932 brown pelicans had been collected after being affected by oiling and estimated that 10 times that number had been harmed as a result of the spill.\n\nWhere pelicans interact with fishers, through either sharing the same waters or scavenging for fishing refuse, they are especially vulnerable to being hooked and entangled in both active and discarded fishing lines. Fish hooks are swallowed or catch in the skin of the pouch or webbed feet, and strong monofilament fishing line can become wound around bill, wings, or legs, resulting in crippling, starvation, and often death. Local rescue organisations have been established in North America and Australia by volunteers to treat and rehabilitate injured pelicans and other wildlife.\n\nAs with other bird families, pelicans are susceptible to a variety of parasites. Specialist feather lice of the genus \"Piagetella\" are found in the pouches of all species of pelican, but are otherwise only known from New World and Antarctic cormorants. Avian malaria is carried by the mosquito \"Culex pipens\", and high densities of these biting insects may force pelican colonies to be abandoned. Leeches may attach to the vent or sometimes the inside of the pouch. A study of the parasites of the American white pelican found 75 different species, including tapeworms, flukes, flies, fleas, ticks, and nematodes. Many of these do little harm, but flies may be implicated in the death of nestlings, particularly if they are weak or unwell, and the soft tick \"Ornithodoros capensis\" sometimes causes adults to desert the nest. Many pelican parasites are found in other bird groups, but several lice are very host-specific.\n\nHealthy pelicans can usually cope with their lice, but sick birds may carry hundreds of individuals, which hastens their demise. The pouch louse \"Piagetiella peralis\", which occurs in the pouch, so cannot be removed by preening, is usually not a serious problem, even when present in such numbers that it covers the whole interior of the pouch, but sometimes inflammation and bleeding may harm the host. The brown pelican has a similarly extensive range of parasites. The nematodes \"Contracaecum multipapillatum\" and \"C. mexicanum\" and the trematode \"Ribeiroia ondatrae\" have caused illness and mortality in the Puerto Rican population, possibly endangering the pelican on this island. In May 2012, hundreds of Peruvian pelicans were reported to have perished in Peru from a combination of starvation and roundworm infestation.\n\nThe pelican (\"henet\" in Egyptian) was associated in Ancient Egypt with death and the afterlife. It was depicted in art on the walls of tombs, and figured in funerary texts, as a protective symbol against snakes. \"Henet\" was also referred to in the Pyramid Texts as the \"mother of the king\" and thus seen as a goddess. References in nonroyal funerary papyri show that the pelican was believed to possess the ability to prophesy safe passage in the underworld for someone who had died.\n\nConsumption of pelican, as with other seabirds, is considered not kosher as an unclean animal, and thus forbidden in Jewish dietary law.\n\nAn origin myth from the Murri people of Queensland, cited by Andrew Lang, describes how the Australian pelican acquired its black and white plumage. The pelican, formerly a black bird, made a canoe during a flood to save drowning people. He fell in love with a woman he thus saved, but her friends and she tricked him and escaped. The pelican consequently prepared to go to war against them by daubing himself with white clay as war paint. However, before he had finished, another pelican, on seeing such a strange piebald creature, killed him with its beak, and all such pelicans have been black and white ever since.\n\nThe Moche people of ancient Peru worshipped nature. They placed emphasis on animals and often depicted pelicans in their art.\n\nAlcatraz Island was given its name by the Spanish because of the large numbers of brown pelicans nesting present. The word \"alcatraz\" is itself derived from the Arabic \"al-caduos\", a term used for a water-carrying vessel and likened to the pouch of the pelican. The English name albatross is also derived by corruption of the Spanish word.\n\nIn medieval Europe, the pelican was thought to be particularly attentive to her young, to the point of providing her own blood by wounding her own breast when no other food was available. As a result, the pelican came to symbolise the Passion of Jesus and the Eucharist, and usurped the image of the lamb and the flag. A reference to this mythical characteristic is contained for example in the hymn by Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Adoro te devote\" or \"Humbly We Adore Thee\", where in the penultimate verse, he describes Christ as the \"loving divine pelican, able to provide nourishment from his breast\". Elizabeth I of England adopted the symbol, portraying herself as the \"mother of the Church of England\". Nicholas Hilliard painted the \"Pelican Portrait\" around 1573, now owned by the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool. A pelican feeding her young is depicted in an oval panel at the bottom of the title page of the first (1611) edition of the King James Bible. Such \"a pelican in her piety\" appears in the 1686 reredos by Grinling Gibbons in the church of St Mary Abchurch in the City of London. Earlier medieval examples of the motif appear in painted murals, for example that of \"circa\" 1350 in the parish church of Belchamp Walter, Essex.\n\nThe self-sacrificial aspect of the pelican was reinforced by the widely read medieval bestiaries. The device of \"a pelican in her piety\" or \"a pelican vulning (from Latin \"vulno\", \"to wound\") herself\" was used in heraldry. An older version of the myth is that the pelican used to kill its young then resurrect them with its blood, again analogous to the sacrifice of Jesus. Likewise, a folktale from India says that a pelican killed her young by rough treatment, but was then so contrite that she resurrected them with her own blood.\n\nThe legends of self-wounding and the provision of blood may have arisen because of the impression a pelican sometimes gives that it is stabbing itself with its bill. In reality, it often presses this onto its chest to fully empty the pouch. Another possible derivation is the tendency of the bird to rest with its bill on its breast; the Dalmatian pelican has a blood-red pouch in the early breeding season and this may have contributed to the myth.\n\nPelicans have featured extensively in heraldry, generally using the Christian symbolism of the pelican as a caring and self-sacrificing parent. Heraldic images featuring a \"pelican vulning\" refers to a pelican injuring herself, while a \"pelican in her piety\" refers to a female pelican feeding her young with her own blood.\n\nThe image became linked to the medieval religious feast of Corpus Christi. The universities of Oxford and Cambridge each have colleges named for the religious festival nearest the dates of their establishment, and both Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, and Corpus Christi College, Oxford, feature pelicans on their coats of arms.\n\nThe medical faculties of Charles University in Prague also have a pelican as their emblem. The symbol of the Irish Blood Transfusion Service is a pelican, and for most of its existence the headquarters of the service was located at Pelican House in Dublin, Ireland. The heraldic pelican also ended up as a pub name and image, though sometimes with the image of the ship \"Golden Hind\". Sir Francis Drake's famous ship was initially called \"Pelican\", and adorned the British halfpenny coin.\n\nThe great white pelican is the national bird of Romania. The brown pelican is the national bird of three Caribbean countries—Saint Kitts and Nevis, Barbados, and Sint Maarten—and features on their coats of arms. It is also the state bird of the US state of Louisiana, which is known colloquially as the Pelican State; the bird appears on the state flag and state seal. It adorns the seals of Louisiana State University and Tulane University, and is the mascot of the New Orleans Pelicans NBA team, Tulane University, and the University of the West Indies. A white pelican logo is used by the Portuguese bank Montepio Geral, and a pelican is depicted on the reverse of the Albanian 1 lek coin, issued in 1996. The name and image were used for Pelican Books, an imprint of nonfiction books published by Penguin Books. The seal of the Packer Collegiate Institute, a pelican feeding her young, has been in use since 1885.\n\nThe Christian Democratic political party known as the American Solidarity Party uses the pelican as its animal symbol, alluding to its Catholic social teaching platform.\n\nThe pelican is the subject of a popular limerick originally composed by Dixon Lanier Merritt in 1910 with several variations by other authors. The original version ran:\n\n"}
{"id": "2292485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292485", "title": "Personal web page", "text": "Personal web page\n\nPersonal web pages are World Wide Web pages created by an individual to contain content of a personal nature rather than content pertaining to a company, organization or institution. Personal web pages are primarily used for informative or entertainment purposes but can also be used for personal career marketing (by containing a list of the individual's skills, experience and a CV), social networking with other people with shared interests, or as a space for personal expression.\n\nThese terms do not usually refer to just a single \"page\" or HTML file, but to a collection of webpages and related files under a common URL or Web address. In strictly technical terms, a site's actual home page (index page) often only contains sparse content with some catchy introductory material and serves mostly as a pointer or table of contents to the more content-rich pages inside, such as résumés, family, hobbies, family genealogy, a web log/diary (\"blog\"), opinions, online journals and diaries or other writing, examples of written work, digital audio sound clips, digital video clips, digital photos, or information about a user's other interests. Many personal pages only include information of interest to friends and family of the author. However, some webpages set up by hobbyists or enthusiasts of certain subject areas can be valuable topical web directories.\n\nSince the early 1990s, most Internet Service Providers (ISPs) provided a free small personal, user-created webpage along with free Usenet News service. These were all considered part of full Internet service. Also several free web hosting services such as Geocities provided free web space for personal web pages. These free web hosting services would typically include web-based site management and a few pre-configured scripts to easily integrate an input form or guestbook script into the user's site. Since the early 2000s, the rise of blogging and the development of user friendly web page designing software made it easier for amateur users who did not have computer programming or website designer training to create personal web pages. Some website design websites provided free ready-made blogging scripts, where all the user had to do was input her content into a template. At the same time, a personal web presence became easier with the increased popularity of social networking services, some with blogging platforms such as LiveJournal and Blogger. These websites provided an attractive and easy-to-use content management system for regular users. Most of the early personal websites were Web 1.0 style, in which a static display of text and images or photos was displayed to individuals who came to the page. About the only interaction that was possible on these early websites was signing the virtual \"guestbook\".\n\nWith the collapse of the dot-com bubble in the late 1990s, the ISP industry consolidated, and the focus of web hosting services shifted away from the surviving ISP companies to independent Internet hosting services and to ones with other affiliations. For example, many university departments provided personal pages for professors and television broadcasters provided them for their on-air personalities. These free webpages served as a perquisite (\"perk\") for staff, while at the same time boosting the Web visibility of the parent organization. Web hosting companies either charge a monthly fee, or provide service that is \"free\" (advertising based) for personal web pages. These are priced or limited according to the total size of all files in bytes on the host's hard drive, or by bandwidth, (traffic), or by some combination of both. For those customers who continue to use their ISP for these services, national ISPs commonly continue to provide both disk space and help including ready-made drop-in scripts.\n\nWith the rise of Web 2.0-style websites, both professional websites and user-created, amateur websites tended to contain interactive features, such as \"clickable\" links to online newspaper articles or favourite websites, the option to comment on content displayed on the website, the option to \"tag\" images, videos or links on the site, the option of \"clicking\" on an image to enlarge it or find out more information, the option of User participation for website guests to evaluate or review the pages, or even the option to create new user-generated content for others to see. A key difference between Web 1.0 personal webpages and Web 2.0 personal pages was while the former tended to be created by hackers, computer programmers and computer hobbyists, the latter were created by a much wider variety of users, including individuals whose main interests lay in hobbies or topics outside of computers (e.g., indie music fans, political activists, and social entrepreneurs).\n\nMany people maintain personal web pages to express their opinions on issues ranging from news and politics to movies or to serve as a showcase for their creative endeavors in writing, songwriting, poetry or music. They also provide a link from the world to the individual (and from the individual to the world) along the lines of a telephone book listing. Some people use their personal web page as a communication method. For example, an aspiring artist might give out business cards with her personal web page, and invite people to visit her page and see her artwork, \"like\" her page or sign her guestbook. For users not well-versed in HTML and other Web technologies, personal accounts with social networking services may be faster to set up for creating a simple personal Web presence (due in part to the communal nature of social networks), provided that the page's author does not object to the network's online advertising and in some cases exclusion of readers and browsers who do not wish to open an account. Institutions such as universities often provide home page facilities to their members which are both advertisement-free and world-readable without registration, although the content might be subject to institutional rules (e.g., against inappropriate photos or hate speech).\n\nA personal web page can be used for self promotion for a person's small business or entrepreneurial venture, to promote an amateur rock band they play in, to promote community activities or charitable causes they support, to provide quick access to information about the user, or just as something \"cool\" to do. A personal web page gives the owner generally more control on presence in search results and how he/she wishes to be viewed online. It also allows more freedom in types and quantity of content than a social network profile offers, and can link various social media profiles with each other. It can be used to correct the record on something, or clear up potential confusion between you and someone with the same name. Early personal web pages were often called \"home pages\" and were intended to be set as a default page in a web browser's preferences, usually by their owner. These pages would often contain links, to-do lists, and other information their author found useful. In the days when search engines were in their infancy, these pages (and the links they contained) could be an important resource in navigating the web.\n\nIn the 2010s, some amateur writers, bands and filmmakers release digital versions of their stories, songs and short films online, with the aim of gaining an audience and becoming more well-known. While the huge number of aspiring artists posting their work online makes it unlikely for individuals and groups to become popular via the Internet, there are a small number of YouTube stars who were unknown until their online performances garnered them a huge audience.\n\nBoth individual, personal web sites and personal social networking accounts give the user a personally customized Web presence. In the 2010s most casual Internet users join free social networking services such as Twitter, Facebook, or Google+ \"accounts\" to serve many of the same purposes as a personal webpage without having to learn web design and writing HTML markup. Yet that prerequisite in many cases is not required, as Web hosting services provide more help to enable regular users to create Web pages.\n\nSocial networks often used prefabricated \"black box\" structures. On one hand, these templates are much easier for neophyte users to work with, since users simply have to add in information in spaces which indicate the required information. Once the user \"saves\" or finishes entering the information, the social network website's software system automatically creates a fairly professional-looking layout. \"Black box\" templates are much simpler to begin using and navigating, but more advanced users may be frustrated that they cannot \"tweak\" the formatting, amount of content, type of content, etc. For example, most social networks have rules regarding casual users who are uploading (loading files onto the website) audio files to their account. Furthermore, these companies intentionally retain the specific service's look and feel and identity of each user personal account within that corporate social network. For example, all profiles may have the same background color, font and website trademark. The emphasis there is on being part of a branded \"network,\" not on the \"personal,\" or the individual. Thus, these \"accounts\" are not normally thought of as (personal) web sites or home pages.\n\nThere are other differences. Unlike actual personal web pages, social networking services and ad-based \"free\" web hosting service personnel, advertisers and nanny-bots can see everything inside the user accounts, and rules are enforced by the firm, \"not by the courts\" as would be the case with a personally owned, full-featured personal web page. However some social services allow the display of almost any content or media produced by the site's creator. This avenue of distribution satisfies most amateurs and aspiring content creators. Web site creation tools permitted by some companies have the potential to allow users more flexibility. As a rule of thumb, the amount of creative freedom one is allowed in creating a personal Web page can be predicted by the site's URL. A pure URL similar to www.yourname.com predicts total ownership and the resulting rights. But a shared-name URL similar to www.yourname.home.othercompany.com suggests account rental and regulations which benefit or protect a corporation (in this case, Othercompany Inc).\n\n\"Free\" sites based on advertising revenue face the dilemma that while relaxation of the rules encourages users to post their feelings and opinions and upload user-generated content with less fear of being censored or shut down, it also increases the risk of an offended sponsor pulling its sponsorship, if offensive materials or comments are made online. With more uploading and content-posting freedom comes an increased risk of copyright and defamation lawsuits, hate speech charges and other legal problems. Free hosting services do not allow users many options to customize the look of pages, because this would reduce page uniformity, thus reducing the common \"look and feel\" on the website, which becomes a key part of its identity and \"branding\". In short, if a social networking company allowed total personal freedom of content posting and profile modification for users, it also risks a degradation of its own look-and-feel, branding, function, and profit and legal risks. In the 2010s, this balance of interests is leading toward more user choices and a narrowing of the differences between personal web sites and other personal web presence providers.\n\nMany celebrities from the movies, TV shows, professional sports and popular music have websites. Were their owners not famous, some might think due to their tone and personal ambiance that these sites were personal web pages. However, the celebrity is the \"product\" or brand being sold, and however casual a celebrity website may appear, with short blog posts and comments appearing on a regular basis, these are typically professionally authored and maintained. Some celebrities' public relations firms and managers hire ghostwriters to author blog posts and Tweets in the style of the celebrity. The celebrity status of the subject and the existence of separate fan-created sites (over which the celebrity in question has no direct control) leads the existence of multiple websites for each celebrity: a personal site authorized by the celebrity and maintained by an individual or company directly associated with the celebrity to be labeled an \"official website\", and one or more fan-run websites. This designation is often a seal of approval and an assurance to the public that the information provided on the site (including press releases, tour dates, and promotional materials) has been authored or approved by the celebrity in question. Some celebrities involved in criminal and civil trials, such as late pop star Michael Jackson and media mogul Martha Stewart, as well as celebrity chef Paula Deen establish official websites to issue statements to the press and to respond to statements and press releases issued by the prosecuting officials. Most celebrity sites are created and maintained by marketing and web professionals employed by the celebrity or the celebrity's publicist; however, some celebrities, such as film director Roger Avary, actor Wil Wheaton, and video game developer John Romero, maintain their own official sites without professional help, although many of them still use third-party templates and blogging software.\n\nAcademic professionals (especially at the college and university level), including professors and researchers, are often given online space for creating and storing personal web documents, including personal web pages, CVs and a list of their books, academic papers and conference presentations, on the websites of their employers. This goes back to the early decade of the World Wide Web and its original purpose of providing a quick and easy way for academics to share research papers and data. Many professors post a digital photo on their profile page. In the 2010s, some professors and researchers have excerpts from their published articles and books, or even the full text of some articles. Some academics in the 2010s use content-rich, interactive Web 2.0 features on their websites, such as clips of television interviews, podcasts, and space for online comments or discussion.\n\nMany people choose a domain name like \"FirstnameLastname.com\" to host their personal website on (e.g., patxhosa.com), whereas outside the English-speaking world, the home country's top level domain (TLD) is commonly used. People with common names may choose to add their middle name or initial in the URL if the primary choice of domain name is already in use. For example, a woman named \"Jane Doe\" will probably find that \"janedoe.com\" is already taken, so she may have to use a variant of her name, such as adding in a number (\"janedoe1.com\"), a birth year (\"janedoe1980.com\") or a middle initial (\"janeqdoe.com\"). The .name TLD is specifically intended to be used for personal web pages, but has not proven to be popular. Personal websites may instead use other generic TLDs like .me, .co, .net and .info, but also .com, .biz and .org, even though individuals rarely think of themselves as companies or (non-profit) organizations. Some people opt to find a TLD that forms a word when combined with the domain name; this is known as domain hacking.\n\n"}
{"id": "57544706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57544706", "title": "Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!", "text": "Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!\n\n\"Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu!\" and \"Let's Go, Eevee!\" are set in the Kanto region and include the original 151 Pokémon creatures in addition to their respective Mega Evolved forms from \"Pokémon X and Y\" & \"Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire\", and their Alolan Forms from \"Sun\" and \"Moon\". \"Let's Go, Pikachu!\" and \"Let's Go, Eevee!\" feature common elements of the main series, such as battling non-player character Pokémon Trainers and Gym Leaders with caught Pokémon creatures. However, instead of battling them like the traditional battle system of other major \"Pokémon\" role-playing games (RPGs), the catching of Pokémon creatures uses a different mechanic that is based on the mobile spin-off game \"Pokémon Go\" where players throw Poké Balls at a wild Pokémon by using the motion controls of the Joy-Con controller. The action can also be performed with a button press when the Joy-Con controllers are docked to the console in hand-held mode, but this still requires using the motion controls to aim. If a player uses the motion controls, the catching of Pokémon is based on the player's timing rather than accuracy. Although it possible to miss a throw, the ball is almost guaranteed to hit the Pokémon.\n\nThe games' control scheme is designed to only require one Joy-Con per player, and the games support cooperative multiplayer. If another player shakes a second Joy-Con, they join the current player and are able to partake in battles with Pokémon Trainers and wild Pokémon encounters, allowing them to aid the catching of wild Pokémon. When playing multiplayer, Trainer battles become battles of two Pokémon against one, and in wild encounters, there is the possibility for each player to throw a Poké Ball at the same time, doubling the chances of capturing the Pokémon.\n\nThe player character starts with either a Pikachu or an Eevee—depending on the version—which sits on the player character's shoulder in the overworld. This mechanic is similar to the \"walking Pokémon\" mechanic first introduced in \"Pokémon Yellow\", in which Pikachu followed the player character throughout the entire game. The player character's partner Pokémon wiggles its tail when the player is near a hidden item, and it can be dressed up for further customization. Similarly to \"Pokémon HeartGold\" and \"SoulSilver\", the player may also choose a secondary Pokémon to follow them, and some larger Pokémon can also be ridden, a mechanic first seen in \"Pokémon X\" and \"Y\" and later refined in \"Sun and Moon\". The eight Gym Leaders and the members of Elite Four from the original game also appear, as well as the antagonist faction Team Rocket, including Jessie, James and Meowth from the anime series.\n\nA notable feature in \"Let's Go, Pikachu!\" and \"Let's Go, Eevee!\" is that wild Pokémon show up in the overworld, rather than as random encounters in grass or caves like in previous main-series \"Pokémon\" RPGs. To start a battle, the player has to simply interact with a Pokémon in the environment. The battle screen is reminiscent of \"Pokémon Go\", with the use of berries to pacify a Pokémon and the toss of a Poké Ball to capture it.\n\nThe evolution mechanic from previous games returns in \"Let's Go, Pikachu!\" and \"Let's Go, Eevee!\"; however, the player's starting Pikachu or Eevee cannot evolve, like \"Pokémon Yellow\". Only other Pokémon that the player has caught can evolve, including the ones of the same species of the partner Pokémon. Some features, like Pokémon breeding and HMs, are absent from the games.\n\nSince \"Pokémon X\" and \"Y\", experience points are rewarded to Pokémon not only by defeating opponent Pokémon but also by catching wild Pokémon. However, in \"Let's Go, Pikachu!\" and \"Let's Go, Eevee!\" experience points rewarded by catching wild Pokémon are affected by various multiplier bonuses depending on the timing of the throw and the technique used to throw the Poké Ball, such as performing an overarm or underarm throw. The game also introduces new items called \"candies,\" which are used to power up a Pokémon's statistics, such as HP, Attack, Defense, Sp. Attack, Sp. Defense, and Speed. Different types of candy are awarded to players who transfer their Pokémon to Professor Oak via an in-game storage box. \"Combat Power\" (CP) also returns from \"Pokémon Go\".\n\nPlayers can also trade Pokémon and battle other players both locally and online, with said online features being simplified in comparison with previous games. Some features—including the Global Trade System, Wonder Trade, and Battle Spot—are absent from \"Let's Go, Pikachu!\" and \"Let's Go, Eevee!\". To connect with other players to trade online, players use a code made out of the names of three freely-selected Pokémon which, when two players enter the same code, allow them to trade Pokémon with or battle each other. A subscription to the Nintendo Switch Online service is required to trade and battle online. Players can also transfer the original first-generation Pokémon and their respective Alolan forms from \"Pokémon Go\" to \"Let's Go, Pikachu!\" or \"Let's Go, Eevee!\". They then appear at the Go Park; an in-game location that the player can explore where they can interact or catch Pokémon that are walking around, although Pokémon with higher CP or levels are harder to catch, in that the catch attempt has a higher chance of failing. Users are also able to exchange unspecified \"gifts\" between \"Pokémon Go\" and \"Let's Go, Pikachu!\" or \"Let's Go, Eevee!\".\n\nThe games support an optional controller, the Poké Ball Plus. It is shaped like a Poké Ball and features an analog stick, motion control support, HD Rumble feedback, and lighting effects. The analog stick doubles as a capture button in case the player does not wish to use the motion controls. During Nintendo's E3 2018 Nintendo Direct presentation on June 12, 2018, it was revealed that the Poké Ball Plus would come with a Mew that can be transferred to the game.Although \"Let's Go, Pikachu!\" and \"Let's Go, Eevee!\" feature integration with \"Pokémon Go\", this is optional.\n\n\"Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu!\" and \"Let's Go, Eevee!\" were unveiled during a press conference in Japan on May 30, 2018. They are primarily aimed toward a younger audience and those who are new to the \"Pokémon\" franchise. At the time of announcement game director Junichi Masuda mentioned that the games have been in development for around two years. Junichi Masuda also stated that he considered the games to be remakes of \"Pokémon Yellow\", explaining that \"Yellow\" \"resonated\" best with younger players because it incorporated elements from the \"Pokémon\" anime television series.\n\nAlthough they are the first main series \"Pokémon\" role-playing games for the Nintendo Switch, \"Let's Go, Pikachu!\" and \"Let's Go, Eevee!\" are a separate project from the \"Pokémon\" game on the same platform that was teased during Nintendo's E3 2017 Nintendo Direct on June 13, 2017 presentation which is scheduled to be released in \"late 2019.\"\n\nMasuda stated that he decided to make Eevee the mascot of the second game due to its popularity and abundance of fan art. He had previously considered Psyduck but ultimately changed his mind, stating that it was due to Psyduck being the same color as Pikachu.\n\nThe games were released internationally on November 16, 2018. Bundles of the games with the Poké Ball Plus controller were announced, as well as Nintendo Switch console bundles featuring the game, gold and yellow colored Joy-Con, and a dock with artwork of Eevee and Pikachu.\n\nOn September 21, 2018, it was announced that Amazon began to offer pre-orders for the \"Let's Go, Pikachu!\" and \"Let's Go, Eevee!\" Switch bundle.\n\n\"Let's Go\" received \"generally favorable reviews\" from critics, according to review aggregator Metacritic. Critics applauded the gameplay, accessibility, nostalgia and charm of the game, while criticising its motion controls.\n\nIt was announced by The Pokémon Company on November 22, 2018 that the game sold over 3million units worldwide in its first three days, making it the fastest-selling Nintendo Switch game. In Japan, \"Let's Go\" topped the software sales chart and sold 661,240 physical retail units in its opening weekend, and was responsible for almost quadrupling Nintendo Switch hardware sales for the week. It remained at the top of the Japanese charts in its second week, bringing its physical retail sales to 823,707 units in Japan as of November 25, 2018.\n\nThe NPD reported the launch sales of \"Let's Go\" in North America as being positive and described it as \"the most important launch\" of the year. On streaming site Twitch, \"Pokémon: Let's Go\" was the most-viewed game on launch day with 125,457 viewers, above \"Fortnite\". Within ten days of release, the game sold over 1.5million units in the United States, as of November 26, 2018.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the game launched with 116,000 physical retail sales in its opening weekend, becoming the top-selling game of the week, despite competition from new releases such as \"Spyro Reignited Trilogy\", \"Fallout 76\" and \"Hitman 2\". \"Let's Go\" also had a positive impact on Switch hardware sales, which in turn boosted sales of other Switch games including several \"Mario\" games, \"\" and \"Just Dance 2019\". Individually, \"Let's Go, Pikachu\" debuted at third place in the UK's all-format sales charts, and \"Let's Go, Eevee\" placed sixth on the same chart. UK sales were down 60% on the sales of \"Pokémon Sun and Moon\", the preceding games in the franchise, due to the Switch having a smaller install base than the 3DS and stock problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "12391615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12391615", "title": "Posterior cerebral artery syndrome", "text": "Posterior cerebral artery syndrome\n\nPosterior cerebral artery syndrome is a condition whereby the blood supply from the posterior cerebral artery (PCA) is restricted, leading to a reduction of the function of the portions of the brain supplied by that vessel: the occipital lobe, the inferomedial temporal lobe, a large portion of the thalamus, and the upper brainstem and midbrain.\n\nThis event restricts the flow of blood to the brain in a near-immediate fashion. The blood hammer is analogous to the water hammer in hydrology and it consists of a sudden increase of the upstream blood pressure in a blood vessel when the bloodstream is abruptly blocked by vessel obstruction. Complete understanding of the relationship between mechanical parameters in vascular occlusions is a critical issue, which can play an important role in the future diagnosis, understanding and treatment of vascular diseases.\n\nDepending upon the location and severity of the occlusion, signs and symptoms may vary within the population affected with PCA syndrome. Blockages of the proximal portion of the vessel produce only minor deficits due to the collateral blood flow from the opposite hemisphere via the posterior communicating artery. In contrast, distal occlusions result in more serious complications. Visual deficits, such as agnosia, prosopagnosia or cortical blindness (with bilateral infarcts) may be a product of ischemic damage to occipital lobe. Occlusions of the branches of the PCA that supply the thalamus can result in central post-stroke pain and lesions to the subthalamic branches can produce “a wide variety of deficits”.\nLeft posterior cerebral artery syndrome presents alexia without agraphia; the lesion is in the splenium of the corpus callosum.\n\nPeripheral Territory Lesions\nCentral Territory Lesions\n"}
{"id": "50551694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50551694", "title": "Regina Amollo", "text": "Regina Amollo\n\nRegina Amollo (born ) is a Ugandan writer.\n\nTrained as a nurse, Amollo started writing her first novel, \"A Season of Mirth\", in 1976. She was encouraged to complete the manuscript by one of her professors, Austin Ejiet, but it took until 1999 for the book to be published. The book, which explores male chauvinism and women's oppression in Uganda, is now required reading for Ugandan students.\n\nAmollo retired from nursing in 2009. She has published several other books, including \"When Mother Leaves Home\" and \"The Pain of Borrowing\". She wrote a two volume primer for the Kumam language, \"Pwonyo Isoma Itabu Me Agege,\" and published an anthology of stories by women writers entitled \"Those Days in Iganga\".\n"}
{"id": "47176185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47176185", "title": "Reginald Shirley Brooks", "text": "Reginald Shirley Brooks\n\nReginald Shirley Walkinshaw Brooks (October 1854 – 10 May 1888) was an English journalist whose spoof obituary of English cricket gave rise to the legend of The Ashes.\n\nBrooks was born in Pancras, London, the elder son of Shirley Brooks, the satirical writer and editor of \"Punch\", and Emily Walkinshaw Brooks.\n\nBrooks' father died in 1874; Reginald Shirley Brooks collated some of his father's satirical writing for \"Punch\" about a pompous middle-class couple called \"The Naggletons\" into book form and it was published the following year. A further volume of his father's epigrammatic verses was published under the title of \"Wit and Humour\" and reviewed in 1884.\n\nBrooks became a writer and journalist himself, joining \"The Sporting Times\" no later than 1876. He wrote under the pen-name \"Peter Blobbs\"; the newspaper, known as the \"Pink Un\", covered sports in general but particularly horse-racing, and also dealt in society gossip. In 1880 he was announced as the launch editor for \"The Sketch\", a weekly magazine of society news, though the launch did not then happen.\n\nFrom 1880 to 1884 he wrote for \"Punch\". According to a history of the magazine published in 1895: \"He wrote some smart papers, but his groove was not that of the sober and respectable Fleet Street Sage. He preferred wilder spirits, and he accordingly retired, taking with him the sympathy of his companions.\"\n\nIt was while writing for \"The Sporting Times\" in 1882 that Brooks published a spoof obituary of English cricket, following the England side's defeat in a Test match against Australia. His mild satire resulted in subsequent cricket series between Australia and England becoming known as \"The Ashes\".\n\nAccording to Mike Selvey, besides the chance to be amusing Brooks had a more serious motive in writing his \"obituary\". At the time, cremation was still unlawful. Brooks' father had been a member of the Cremation Society of Great Britain, which was campaigning to have it made legal. When his father died in 1874, Brooks was unable to have him cremated as he would have wished. However, eight years later he was able to give publicity to the cause through what he wrote. A reference work on cremation states: \"Cremation was the butt of many, usually very unwitty, jokes, and the obituary was at least as much a joke about cremation as about English cricket.\"\n\nBrooks – and the \"Sporting Times\" as a whole – had in any case a reputation as something of a joker. A story retold in a book of 1898 by one of the other journalists of Brooks' time recounts an incident when the newspaper was three columns short at the time of going to press \"and nobody was sober enough to attempt the task of writing them\"; Brooks solved the problem by reprinting an entire article from the magazine \"Truth\", merely adding the headline: \"How on Earth Did this Story get into the Columns of \"Truth\"?\" Following the publication of the memoirs of the theatrical impresario John Hollingshead in 1895, another journalist recounted an incident in which he and Brooks had successfully conned theatre tickets from Hollingshead. Some of Brooks' witticisms misfired. In 1886, the French actor/manager Marius was in charge of the Empire Theatre, which was owned by the Café Royal, and reacted badly when Brooks, in a review of a play at the Empire for a magazine called \"The Bat\", suggested the Café Royal might have done better to employ Marius in his former profession of a waiter, rather than as a theatre manager. Marius claimed never to have been a waiter and sued for libel; Brooks took to the witness stand but the case was lost and Marius received £100 damages.\n\nBrooks' lifestyle meant that he was not a \"morning person\". According to a servant at the hotel in Covent Garden where he was a long-term resident, when asked what time he had breakfast: \"Breakfast! He don't trouble no breakfast, but he's gener'ly sick about har' past eleven or a quarter to twelve!\"\n\nIn his novel \"Summer Lightning\", first published in 1929, P. G. Wodehouse invented a dissolute past for the character Galahad Threepwood, in the course of which Brooks is mentioned. In his younger days Galahad had been \"a brother-in-arms of the Shifter, the Pitcher, Peter Blobbs and the rest of an interesting but not strait-laced circle\".\n\nLess than six years after his spoof obituary for English cricket was published, Brooks himself had died in London at the early age of 33. Like his father before him, he was buried at Kensal Green Cemetery. He had been suffering from tuberculosis and rheumatism, which had latterly prevented him from working. Obituaries said that his byline on the \"Sporting Times\" of Peter Blobbs was known all over the world, and in spite of his having led a Bohemian lifestyle, \"Few men could get through more work in less time, and its quality was invariably good.\" An obituary in the society magazine \"Vanity Fair\" (reprinted in the \"Sheffield Evening Telegraph\") wrote that he had inherited \"much of the literary ability of his father\" and was \"endowed with a keen and very original sense of humour that was entirely his own\". Simon Briggs summed him up less charitably as \"a stereotypical boozy hack who chased actresses, gambled recklessly and drank himself to an early grave\". According to a colleague on the \"Sporting Times\": \"Shirley had a sweet and gentle disposition that caused him to be beloved by everybody, nor did any of the petty ironies of life disturb him in the least.\" Ten years after his death, his former room when visiting the country residence that belonged to John Corlett, the paper's proprietor and editor, was still preserved as he had left it, with his photographs, pictures and sketches adorning the walls.\n"}
{"id": "26347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26347", "title": "Russian submarine Kursk (K-141)", "text": "Russian submarine Kursk (K-141)\n\nK-141 \"Kursk\" (, transl. , meaning \"Nuclear-powered submarine \"Kursk\"\") was an Oscar II-class nuclear-powered cruise-missile submarine of the Russian Navy.\n\nOn 12 August 2000, K-141 \"Kursk\" was lost when it sank in the Barents Sea, killing all 118 personnel on board.\n\nK-141 \"Kursk\" was a Project 949A class \"Antey\" () submarine of the Oscar-class, known as the Oscar II by its NATO reporting name, and was the penultimate submarine of the Oscar II class designed and approved in the Soviet Union. Construction began in 1990 at the Soviet Navy military shipyards in Severodvinsk, near Arkhangelsk, in the northern Russian SFSR. During the construction of K-141, the Soviet Union collapsed; work continued, and she became one of the first naval vessels completed after the collapse. K-141 was inherited by Russia and launched in 1994, before being commissioned by the Russian Navy on December 30, as part of the Russian Northern Fleet. K-141 was named \"Kursk\" after the city, following the naming system for Soviet submarines.\n\n\"Kursk\" was assigned to the home port of Vidyayevo, Murmansk Oblast.\n\nThe Antey design represented the highest achievement of Soviet nuclear submarine technology. They were the second-largest attack submarines ever built, after the Typhoon Class submarine (Akula /Project 941). It was built to defeat an entire United States aircraft carrier group. A single Type 65 torpedo carried a warhead powerful enough to sink an aircraft carrier. Both missiles and torpedoes could be equipped with nuclear warheads. She was longer than the preceding Oscar I-class of submarines. The senior officers had individual staterooms and the entire crew had access to a gymnasium.\n\nThe outer hull, made of high-nickel, high-chromium stainless steel thick, had exceptionally good resistance to corrosion and a weak magnetic signature which helped prevent detection by U.S. magnetic anomaly detector (MAD) systems. There was a gap to the -thick steel pressure hull. She was designed to remain submerged for up to 120 days. The sail superstructure was reinforced to allow it to break through the Arctic ice.\nThe submarine was armed with 24 SS-N-19/P-700 Granit cruise missiles, and eight torpedo tubes in the bow: four and four . The Granit missiles with a range of , were capable of supersonic flight at altitudes over . They were designed to swarm enemy vessels and intelligently choose individual targets which terminated with a dive onto the target. The torpedo tubes could be used to launch either torpedoes or anti-ship missiles with a range of . Her weapons included 18 SS-N-16 \"Stallion\" anti-submarine missiles.\n\n\"Kursk\" was part of Russia's Northern Fleet, which had suffered funding cutbacks throughout the 1990s. Many of its submarines were anchored and rusting in Zapadnaya Litsa Naval Base, from Murmansk. Little work to maintain all but the most essential front-line equipment, including search and rescue equipment, had occurred. Northern Fleet sailors had gone unpaid in the mid-1990s.\n\nDuring her five years of service, \"Kursk\" completed only one mission, a six-month deployment to the Mediterranean during the summer of 1999 to monitor the United States Sixth Fleet responding to the Kosovo crisis. This was due to a lack of funds for fuel. As a result, many of her crew had spent little time at sea and were inexperienced.\n\n\"Kursk\" joined the \"Summer-X\" exercise, the first large-scale naval exercise planned by the Russian Navy in more than a decade, on 10 August 2000. It included 30 ships including the fleet's flagship \"Pyotr Velikiy\" (\"Peter the Great\"), four attack submarines, and a flotilla of smaller ships. The crew had recently won a citation for its excellent performance and been recognized as the best submarine crew in the Northern Fleet. While it was on an exercise, \"Kursk\" loaded a full complement of combat weapons. It was one of the few ships authorized to carry a combat load at all times.\n\nOn the first day of the exercise, \"Kursk\" successfully launched a Granit missile armed with a dummy warhead. Two days later, on the morning of 12 August, \"Kursk\" prepared to fire dummy torpedoes at the \"Kirov\"-class battlecruiser Pyotr Velikiy (\"Peter The Great\"). These practice torpedoes had no explosive warheads and were manufactured and tested at a much lower quality standard. On 12 August 2000, at 11:28 local time (07:28 UTC), there was an explosion while preparing to fire. The Russian Navy's final report on the disaster concluded the explosion was due to the failure of one of \"Kursk\"'s hydrogen peroxide-fueled Type 65 torpedoes. A subsequent investigation concluded that high-test peroxide (HTP), a form of highly concentrated hydrogen peroxide used as propellant for the torpedo, seeped through a faulty weld in the torpedo casing. When HTP comes in contact with a catalyst, it rapidly expands by a factor of 5000, generating vast quantities of steam and oxygen. The pressure produced by the expanding HTP ruptured the kerosene fuel tank in the torpedo and set off an explosion equal to of TNT. The submarine sank in relatively shallow water, bottoming at about off Severomorsk, at . A second explosion 135 seconds after the initial event was equivalent to 3-7 tons of TNT. The explosions blew a large hole in the hull and collapsed the first three compartments of the sub, killing or incapacitating all but 23 of the 118 personnel on board.\n\nThough the British and Norwegian navies offered assistance, Russia initially refused all help. All 118 sailors and officers aboard \"Kursk\" died. The Russian Admiralty initially told the public that the majority of the crew died within minutes of the explosion, but on 21 August, Norwegian and Russian divers found 24 bodies in the ninth compartment, the turbine room at the stern of the boat. Captain-lieutenant Dmitri Kolesnikov wrote a note listing the names of 23 sailors who were alive in the compartment after the ship sank.\n\n\"Kursk\" carried a potassium superoxide cartridge of a chemical oxygen generator, used to absorb carbon dioxide and chemically release oxygen during an emergency. However, the cartridge became contaminated with sea water and the resulting chemical reaction caused a flash fire which consumed the available oxygen. The investigation showed that some men temporarily survived the fire by plunging under water, as fire marks on the bulkheads indicated the water was at waist level at the time. Ultimately, the remaining crew burned to death or suffocated.\n\nRussian President Vladimir Putin, though immediately informed of the tragedy, was told by the navy that they had the situation under control and rescue was imminent. He waited five days before he ended his holiday at a presidential resort in Sochi on the Black Sea. Only four months into his tenure as President, the public and media were extremely critical of Putin's decision to remain at a seaside resort, and his highly favourable ratings dropped dramatically. The President's response appeared callous and the government's actions looked incompetent. A year later he said, \"I probably should have returned to Moscow, but nothing would have changed. I had the same level of communication both in Sochi and in Moscow, but from a PR point of view I could have demonstrated some special eagerness to return.\"\n\nA consortium formed by the Dutch companies Mammoet and Smit International was awarded a contract by Russia to raise the vessel, excluding the bow. They modified the barge \"Giant 4\" which raised \"Kursk\" and recovered the remains of the sailors.\n\nDuring salvage in 2001, the team first cut the bow off the hull using a tungsten carbide-studded cable. As this tool had the potential to cause sparks which could ignite remaining pockets of reactive gases, such as hydrogen, the operation was carefully executed. Most of the bow was abandoned and the rest of the vessel was towed to Severomorsk and placed in a floating dry dock for analysis.\n\nThe remains of \"Kursk\"s reactor compartment was towed to Sayda Bay on Russia's northern Kola Peninsula – where more than 50 reactor compartments were afloat at pier points – after a shipyard had defuelled the boat in early 2003.\n\nSome torpedo and torpedo tube fragments from the bow were recovered and the rest was destroyed by explosives in 2002.\n\nNotwithstanding the navy's oft-stated position that a collision with a foreign vessel had triggered the event, a report issued by the government attributed the disaster to a torpedo explosion caused when high-test peroxide (HTP), a form of highly concentrated hydrogen peroxide, leaked from a faulty weld in the torpedo's casing. The report found that the initial explosion destroyed the torpedo room compartment and killed everyone in the first compartment. The blast entered the second and perhaps the third and fourth compartments through an air conditioning vent. All of the 36 men in the command post located in the second compartment were immediately incapacitated by the blast wave and possibly killed. The first explosion caused a fire that raised the temperature of the compartment to more than . The heat caused the warheads of between five and seven additional torpedoes to detonate, creating an explosion equivalent to 2–3 tons of TNT that measured 4.2 on the Richter magnitude scale on seismographs across Europe and was detected as far away as Alaska.\n\nVice-Admiral Valery Ryazantsev differed with the government's official conclusion. He cited inadequate training, poor maintenance, and incomplete inspections that caused the crew to mishandle the weapon. During the examination of the wrecked sub, investigators recovered a partially burned copy of the safety instructions for loading HTP torpedoes, but the instructions were for a significantly different type of torpedo and failed to include essential steps for testing an air valve. The 7th Division, 1st Submarine Flotilla never inspected \"Kursk\"s crew's qualifications and readiness to fire HTP torpedoes. \"Kursk\"s crew had no prior experience with HTP-powered torpedoes and had not been trained in handling or firing HTP-powered torpedoes. Due to their inexperience and lack of training, compounded by incomplete inspections and oversight, and because the \"Kursk\"s crew followed faulty instructions when loading the practice torpedo, Ryazantsev believes they set off a chain of events that led to the explosion.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47312726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47312726", "title": "Salibi al-Zahir", "text": "Salibi al-Zahir\n\nSalibi al-Zahir (given name also spelled \"Sulaybi\" or \"Celebi\") (died 1773) was the \"multazem\" (tax farmer) of Tiberias in the mid-18th century, during the Ottoman rule. He was appointed to the post by his father, Zahir al-Umar, the virtually autonomous ruler northern Palestine. He was Zahir's eldest son and generally known to be his most loyal son. However, he did join his brothers Uthman, Ahmad and Sa'id in a rebellion against their father, in which they were defeated.\n\nSalibi led a contingent of Zahir's troops to support Ali Bey al-Kabir's bid to regain control of Egypt from Abu al-Dhahab. However, Salibi and Ali Bey's troops were decisively defeated and Salibi was killed in battle. Zahir was distressed by the death of his son and upon hearing the news, he collapsed to the ground and exclaimed \"From this day I am undone\". Salibi was succeeded by his brother Ahmad al-Zahir as \"multazem\" of Tiberias.\n\n"}
{"id": "40854002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40854002", "title": "Scott Hutchison", "text": "Scott Hutchison\n\nScott John Hutchison (20 November 1981 – 10 May 2018) was a Scottish singer, songwriter, guitarist and artist. He was the founding member and primary songwriter of the indie rock band Frightened Rabbit, with whom he recorded five studio albums, and created the artwork for each release.\n\nHutchison was also a member of the musical collective The Fruit Tree Foundation, and released one solo album under the moniker Owl John. His last musical project was the indie \"supergroup\" Mastersystem, featuring Frightened Rabbit bandmate and brother Grant alongside members of Editors and Minor Victories.\n\nHutchison studied illustration at the Glasgow School of Art, before forming Frightened Rabbit in 2003. Initially a solo project, Hutchison collaborated with his brother Grant on the band's debut album, \"Sing the Greys\" (2006), and recorded the band's critical breakthrough, \"The Midnight Organ Fight\" (2008), as a three-piece, following the collapse of a romantic relationship.\n\nFollowing the album's release, the band's fanbase expanded significantly and a third studio album, \"The Winter of Mixed Drinks\", was released in 2010. Signing to Atlantic Records, the band released their fourth studio album, \"Pedestrian Verse\", in 2013. The following year, Hutchison recorded a solo album as Owl John. In 2016, the band released their fifth studio album, \"Painting of a Panic Attack\".\n\nHutchison disappeared on 9 May 2018, and his body was found the following day on the banks of the Firth of Forth.\n\nScott John Hutchison, described by his mother as a shy child, was born and raised in the Scottish Borders town of Selkirk, with his brother Grant. Moving to the city of Glasgow, he studied illustration at the Glasgow School of Art: \"I was there for four years and I didn't particularly want to be an illustrator, so I wanted to apply the rules that I learnt to everything I do, in terms of working in a bank or writing music.\" While living in Glasgow, he worked in a specialist whisky shop in the residential area of Hyndland, noting: \"I began to appreciate and admire the heritage of flavour in a dram of single malt.\"\n\nInitially considering himself solely a guitarist, Hutchison began singing at the age of nineteen, stating: \"Up to that point I was just a guitar player. I didn't know I could sing, I had been told I couldn't.\" His early songwriting influences included such American artists as Ryan Adams, Wilco and Laura Cantrell, with Hutchison noting, \"When I started writing songs, my references were [these] Americana acts. [...] I could associate with those stories. And you can see American folk's deep connections with Scottish folk.\"\n\nIn 2003, Hutchison began performing under the name Frightened Rabbit, a name given to him by his mother to describe his once shy nature, and began recording and performing with his brother the following year. The duo recorded the band's debut album, \"Sing the Greys\", at The Diving Bell Lounge, with producer Marcus MacKay, and released it independently on local label, Hits the Fan, in 2006; the band signed soon after to Fat Cat Records.\n\nJoined by guitarist Billy Kennedy, the band reissued the album on their new label and began work on its follow-up, \"The Midnight Organ Fight\" (2008), with producer Peter Katis, in Bridgeport, Connecticut. Influenced by the collapse of his relationship with his high school and college girlfriend Shell Jubin, the deeply personal album was released to widespread critical acclaim and increased the band's exposure significantly.\n\nOwl John was a solo musical project by Hutchison, formed in 2014. Regarding Owl John and his decision to release a solo record, Hutchison noted, \"It was approximately 10 years ago that I started a band called Frightened Rabbit. In that time I've dedicated so much of my life to that good wee band with a stupid name, I felt it was time to indulge Owl John.\"\n\nHutchison recorded the project's sole album, \"Owl John\" (2014), alongside his Frightened Rabbit bandmate Andy Monaghan and the band's touring guitarist Simon Liddell.\n\nIn January 2014, whilst touring in support of Frightened Rabbit's fourth studio album, \"Pedestrian Verse\" (2013), Hutchison expressed his desire to record solo material without the band, stating: \"The process has to be different, otherwise I'm just going to make a Frightened Rabbit-sounding record, which I really don't want to do.\"\n\nThe idea for a solo album stemmed from Frightened Rabbit's label, Atlantic Records: \"It was actually the idea of the label to make it rather than me. I thought we were going to get off tour and go straight back into writing another album, and the guy at the label knew things weren't really quite right. He basically was like, 'We'll pay for this record. Go away, make a record and indulge yourself.'\" The following month, work began on the album, on the Isle of Mull, with bandmate Andy Monaghan producing, alongside Simon Liddell. Released on 4 August 2014, the self-titled album debuted at number ninety-nine on the UK Albums Chart.\n\nHutchison wrote and recorded with The Fruit Tree Foundation, a collaborative project featuring Scottish indie rock and folk musicians. The resulting album, \"First Edition\", was released in 2011. Regarding the experience, Hutchison stated: \"It was really beautifully done. I thought it was such a great thing, and also personally, for me, that was my first taste of proper collaboration and it really changed my outlook on songwriting. Before, I was kind of like, 'Yeah, I know how to write songs. I don't need anyone's help', and then, of course, you learn so much. So it changed my whole outlook, and I would love to get involved in that kind of thing again.\"\n\nHutchison performed a guitar solo on the track, \"A Bigger World\", by the indie rock band The Birthday Suit, and is featured in its accompanying music video. The song was the first single to be released from the band's third studio album, \"A Hollow Hole of Riches\" (2014).\n\nHutchison formed the \"indie supergroup\" in 2017 with his brother Grant, and the brothers, Justin and James Lockey from Editors and Minor Victories respectively. The band released one album, \"Dance Music\", in 2018.\n\nHutchison is credited for all of the artwork in \"Oyster\", a book of poetry written by Edinburgh poet Michael Pedersen.\n\nHutchison was reported missing by Scottish police and the members of Frightened Rabbit on 9 May 2018. Hutchison was last seen at 1 a.m. 9 May leaving a hotel in South Queensferry. Hutchison had tweeted \"Be so good to everyone you love. It's not a given. I'm so annoyed that it’s not. I didn't live by that standard and it kills me. Please, hug your loved ones\", followed by \"I'm away now. Thanks.\" prior to his disappearance.\n\nHis brother and bandmate Grant, on the band's official Twitter account, urged anyone with information on his whereabouts to contact Police Scotland given his fragile state.\n\nOn 10 May, the Chief Inspector of Police Scotland reported that they were searching the area around the Forth Road Bridge for Hutchison, and were looking to contact two individuals who were spotted walking along the bridge the night he disappeared.\n\nPolice discovered a body at 8:30 p.m. in the Port Edgar region near South Queensferry, and on 11 May confirmed it was that of Hutchison; no immediate cause of death was disclosed.\n\nFrightened Rabbit issued a statement following Hutchison's death, which read:\n\nSeveral celebrities and musicians mourned Hutchison on social media on the day his body was discovered, including Stuart Murdoch, Jo Whiley, Gary Lightbody, Hayley Williams, Sarah Silverman, Jay Baruchel and Wil Wagner. Nicola Sturgeon, the First Minister of Scotland, responded to Hutchison's death on Twitter, writing \"Heartbreaking news. My thoughts are with Scott’s family, friends and fans. A remarkable and much loved talent.\" Several artists who were close to Scott performed tributes to him including Frank Turner, The Twilight Sad, Manchester Orchestra, Craig Finn of The Hold Steady, Julien Baker, and We Were Promised Jetpacks. Death Cab for Cutie's 2018 album \"Thank You for Today\" was dedicated in memory of Hutchison.\n\nListed here are Hutchison's work with Frightened Rabbit, and other collaborations.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27783", "title": "Stem cell", "text": "Stem cell\n\nStem cells are biological cells that can differentiate into other types of cells and can divide to produce more of the same type of stem cells. They are found in multicellular organisms.\n\nIn mammals, there are two broad types of stem cells: embryonic stem cells, which are isolated from the inner cell mass of blastocysts, and adult stem cells, which are found in various tissues. In adult organisms, stem cells and progenitor cells act as a repair system for the body, replenishing adult tissues. In a developing embryo, stem cells can differentiate into all the specialized cells—ectoderm, endoderm and mesoderm (see induced pluripotent stem cells)—but also maintain the normal turnover of regenerative organs, such as blood, skin, or intestinal tissues.\n\nThere are three known accessible sources of autologous adult stem cells in humans:\nStem cells can also be taken from umbilical cord blood just after birth. Of all stem cell types, autologous harvesting involves the least risk. By definition, autologous cells are obtained from one's own body, just as one may bank his or her own blood for elective surgical procedures.\n\nAdult stem cells are frequently used in various medical therapies (e.g., bone marrow transplantation). Stem cells can now be artificially grown and transformed (differentiated) into specialized cell types with characteristics consistent with cells of various tissues such as muscles or nerves. Embryonic cell lines and autologous embryonic stem cells generated through somatic cell nuclear transfer or dedifferentiation have also been proposed as promising candidates for future therapies. Research into stem cells grew out of findings by Ernest A. McCulloch and James E. Till at the University of Toronto in the 1960s.\n\nThe classical definition of a stem cell requires that it possesses two properties:\n\nTwo mechanisms exist to ensure that a stem cell population is maintained:\n\n1. Obligatory asymmetric replication: a stem cell divides into one mother cell that is identical to the original stem cell, and another daughter cell that is differentiated.\n\nWhen a stem cell self-renews it divides and does not disrupt the undifferentiated state. This self-renewal demands control of cell cycle as well as upkeep of multipotency or pluripotency, which all depends on the stem cell.\n\n2. Stochastic differentiation: when one stem cell develops into two differentiated daughter cells, another stem cell undergoes mitosis and produces two stem cells identical to the original.\n\n\"Potency\" specifies the differentiation potential (the potential to differentiate into different cell types) of the stem cell.\n\nIn practice, stem cells are identified by whether they can regenerate tissue. For example, the defining test for bone marrow or hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) is the ability to transplant the cells and save an individual without HSCs. This demonstrates that the cells can produce new blood cells over a long term. It should also be possible to isolate stem cells from the transplanted individual, which can themselves be transplanted into another individual without HSCs, demonstrating that the stem cell was able to self-renew.\n\nProperties of stem cells can be illustrated \"in vitro\", using methods such as clonogenic assays, in which single cells are assessed for their ability to differentiate and self-renew. Stem cells can also be isolated by their possession of a distinctive set of cell surface markers. However, \"in vitro\" culture conditions can alter the behavior of cells, making it unclear whether the cells shall behave in a similar manner \"in vivo\". There is considerable debate as to whether some proposed adult cell populations are truly stem cells.\n\nEmbryonic stem cells (ESCs) are the cells of the inner cell mass of a blastocyst, an early-stage embryo. Human embryos reach the blastocyst stage 4–5 days post fertilization, at which time they consist of 50–150 cells. ESCs are pluripotent and give rise during development to all derivatives of the three primary germ layers: ectoderm, endoderm and mesoderm. In other words, they can develop into each of the more than 200 cell types of the adult body when given sufficient and necessary stimulation for a specific cell type. They do not contribute to the extra-embryonic membranes or the placenta.\n\nDuring embryonic development these inner cell mass cells continuously divide and become more specialized. For example, a portion of the ectoderm in the dorsal part of the embryo specializes as 'neurectoderm', which will become the future central nervous system. Later in development, neurulation causes the neurectoderm to form the neural tube. At the neural tube stage, the anterior portion undergoes encephalization to generate or 'pattern' the basic form of the brain. At this stage of development, the principal cell type of the CNS is considered a neural stem cell. These neural stem cells are pluripotent, as they can generate a large diversity of many different neuron types, each with unique gene expression, morphological, and functional characteristics. The process of generating neurons from stem cells is called neurogenesis. One prominent example of a neural stem cell is the radial glial cell, so named because it has a distinctive bipolar morphology with highly elongated processes spanning the thickness of the neural tube wall, and because historically it shared some glial characteristics, most notably the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). The radial glial cell is the primary neural stem cell of the developing vertebrate CNS, and its cell body resides in the ventricular zone, adjacent to the developing ventricular system. Neural stem cells are committed to the neuronal lineages (neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes), and thus their potency is restricted.\n\nNearly all research to date has made use of mouse embryonic stem cells (mES) or human embryonic stem cells (hES) derived from the early inner cell mass. Both have the essential stem cell characteristics, yet they require very different environments in order to maintain an undifferentiated state. Mouse ES cells are grown on a layer of gelatin as an extracellular matrix (for support) and require the presence of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) in serum media. A drug cocktail containing inhibitors to GSK3B and the MAPK/ERK pathway, called 2i, has also been shown to maintain pluripotency in stem cell culture. Human ESCs are grown on a feeder layer of mouse embryonic fibroblasts and require the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF or FGF-2). Without optimal culture conditions or genetic manipulation, embryonic stem cells will rapidly differentiate.\n\nA human embryonic stem cell is also defined by the expression of several transcription factors and cell surface proteins. The transcription factors Oct-4, Nanog, and Sox2 form the core regulatory network that ensures the suppression of genes that lead to differentiation and the maintenance of pluripotency. The cell surface antigens most commonly used to identify hES cells are the glycolipids stage specific embryonic antigen 3 and 4 and the keratan sulfate antigens Tra-1-60 and Tra-1-81. By using human embryonic stem cells to produce specialized cells like nerve cells or heart cells in the lab, scientists can gain access to adult human cells without taking tissue from patients. They can then study these specialized adult cells in detail to try and catch complications of diseases, or to study cells reactions to potentially new drugs. The molecular definition of a stem cell includes many more proteins and continues to be a topic of research.\n\nThere are currently no approved treatments using embryonic stem cells. The first human trial was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration in January 2009. However, the human trial was not initiated until October 13, 2010 in Atlanta for spinal cord injury research. On November 14, 2011 the company conducting the trial (Geron Corporation) announced that it will discontinue further development of its stem cell programs. ES cells, being pluripotent cells, require specific signals for correct differentiation—if injected directly into another body, ES cells will differentiate into many different types of cells, causing a teratoma. Differentiating ES cells into usable cells while avoiding transplant rejection are just a few of the hurdles that embryonic stem cell researchers still face. Due to ethical considerations, many nations currently have moratoria or limitations on either human ES cell research or the production of new human ES cell lines. Because of their combined abilities of unlimited expansion and pluripotency, embryonic stem cells remain a theoretically potential source for regenerative medicine and tissue replacement after injury or disease.\n\nThe primitive stem cells located in the organs of fetuses are referred to as fetal stem cells.\nThere are two types of fetal stem cells:\n\n\nAdult stem cells, also called somatic (from Greek σωματικóς, \"of the body\") stem cells, are stem cells which maintain and repair the tissue in which they are found. They can be found in children, as well as adults.\n\nPluripotent adult stem cells are rare and generally small in number, but they can be found in umbilical cord blood and other tissues. Bone marrow is a rich source of adult stem cells, which have been used in treating several conditions including liver cirrhosis, chronic limb ischemia and endstage heart failure. The quantity of bone marrow stem cells declines with age and is greater in males than females during reproductive years. Much adult stem cell research to date has aimed to characterize their potency and self-renewal capabilities. DNA damage accumulates with age in both stem cells and the cells that comprise the stem cell environment. This accumulation is considered to be responsible, at least in part, for increasing stem cell dysfunction with aging (see DNA damage theory of aging).\n\nMost adult stem cells are lineage-restricted (multipotent) and are generally referred to by their tissue origin (mesenchymal stem cell, adipose-derived stem cell, endothelial stem cell, dental pulp stem cell, etc.). Muse cells (multi-lineage differentiating stress enduring cells) are a recently discovered pluripotent stem cell type found in multiple adult tissues, including adipose, dermal fibroblasts, and bone marrow. While rare, muse cells are identifiable by their expression of SSEA-3, a marker for undifferentiated stem cells, and general mesenchymal stem cells markers such as CD105. When subjected to single cell suspension culture, the cells will generate clusters that are similar to embryoid bodies in morphology as well as gene expression, including canonical pluripotency markers Oct4, Sox2, and Nanog.\n\nAdult stem cell treatments have been successfully used for many years to treat leukemia and related bone/blood cancers through bone marrow transplants. Adult stem cells are also used in veterinary medicine to treat tendon and ligament injuries in horses.\n\nThe use of adult stem cells in research and therapy is not as controversial as the use of embryonic stem cells, because the production of adult stem cells does not require the destruction of an embryo. Additionally, in instances where adult stem cells are obtained from the intended recipient (an autograft), the risk of rejection is essentially non-existent. Consequently, more US government funding is being provided for adult stem cell research.\n\nMultipotent stem cells are also found in amniotic fluid. These stem cells are very active, expand extensively without feeders and are not tumorigenic. Amniotic stem cells are multipotent and can differentiate in cells of adipogenic, osteogenic, myogenic, endothelial, hepatic and also neuronal lines.\nAmniotic stem cells are a topic of active research.\n\nUse of stem cells from amniotic fluid overcomes the ethical objections to using human embryos as a source of cells. Roman Catholic teaching forbids the use of embryonic stem cells in experimentation; accordingly, the Vatican newspaper \"Osservatore Romano\" called amniotic stem cells \"the future of medicine\".\n\nIt is possible to collect amniotic stem cells for donors or for autologuous use: the first US amniotic stem cells bank was opened in 2009 in Medford, MA, by Biocell Center Corporation and collaborates with various hospitals and universities all over the world.\n\nAdult stem cells have limitations with their potency; unlike embryonic stem cells (ESCs), they are not able to differentiate into cells from all three germ layers. As such, they are deemed multipotent.\n\nHowever, reprogramming allows for the creation of pluripotent cells, induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), from adult cells. These are not adult stem cells, but adult cells (e.g. epithelial cells) reprogrammed to give rise to cells with pluripotent capabilities. Using genetic reprogramming with protein transcription factors, pluripotent stem cells with ESC-like capabilities have been derived. The first demonstration of induced pluripotent stem cells was conducted by Shinya Yamanaka and his colleagues at Kyoto University. They used the transcription factors Oct3/4, Sox2, c-Myc, and Klf4 to reprogram mouse fibroblast cells into pluripotent cells. Subsequent work used these factors to induce pluripotency in human fibroblast cells. Junying Yu, James Thomson, and their colleagues at the University of Wisconsin–Madison used a different set of factors, Oct4, Sox2, Nanog and Lin28, and carried out their experiments using cells from human foreskin. However, they were able to replicate Yamanaka's finding that inducing pluripotency in human cells was possible.\n\nInduced pluripotent stem cells differ from embryonic stem cells. They share many similar properties, such as pluripotency and differentiation potential, the expression of pluripotency genes, epigenetic patterns, embryoid body and teratoma formation, and viable chimera formation, but there are many differences within these properties. The chromatin of iPSCs appears to be more \"closed\" or methylated than that of ESCs. Similarly, the gene expression pattern between ESCs and iPSCs, or even iPSCs sourced from different origins. There are thus questions about the \"completeness\" of reprogramming and the somatic memory of induced pluripotent stem cells. Despite this, inducing adult cells to be pluripotent appears to be viable.\n\nAs a result of the success of these experiments, Ian Wilmut, who helped create the first cloned animal Dolly the Sheep, has announced that he will abandon somatic cell nuclear transfer as an avenue of research.\n\nFurthermore, induced pluripotent stem cells provide several therapeutic advantages. Like ESCs, they are pluripotent. They thus have great differentiation potential; theoretically, they could produce any cell within the human body (if reprogramming to pluripotency was \"complete\"). Moreover, unlike ESCs, they potentially could allow doctors to create a pluripotent stem cell line for each individual patient. Frozen blood samples can be used as a valuable source of induced pluripotent stem cells. Patient specific stem cells allow for the screening for side effects before drug treatment, as well as the reduced risk of transplantation rejection. Despite their current limited use therapeutically, iPSCs hold create potential for future use in medical treatment and research.\n\nTo ensure self-renewal, stem cells undergo two types of cell division (see \"Stem cell division and differentiation\" diagram). Symmetric division gives rise to two identical daughter cells both endowed with stem cell properties. Asymmetric division, on the other hand, produces only one stem cell and a progenitor cell with limited self-renewal potential. Progenitors can go through several rounds of cell division before terminally differentiating into a mature cell. It is possible that the molecular distinction between symmetric and asymmetric divisions lies in differential segregation of cell membrane proteins (such as receptors) between the daughter cells.\n\nAn alternative theory is that stem cells remain undifferentiated due to environmental cues in their particular niche. Stem cells differentiate when they leave that niche or no longer receive those signals. Studies in \"Drosophila\" germarium have identified the signals decapentaplegic and adherens junctions that prevent germarium stem cells from differentiating.\n\nStem cell therapy is the use of stem cells to treat or prevent a disease or condition. Bone marrow transplant is a form of stem cell therapy that has been used for many years without controversy.\n\nStem cell treatments may lower symptoms of the disease or condition that is being treated. The lowering of symptoms may allow patients to reduce the drug intake of the disease or condition. Stem cell treatment may also provide knowledge for society to further stem cell understanding and future treatments.\n\nStem cell treatments may require immunosuppression because of a requirement for radiation before the transplant to remove the person's previous cells, or because the patient's immune system may target the stem cells. One approach to avoid the second possibility is to use stem cells from the same patient who is being treated.\n\nPluripotency in certain stem cells could also make it difficult to obtain a specific cell type. It is also difficult to obtain the exact cell type needed, because not all cells in a population differentiate uniformly. Undifferentiated cells can create tissues other than desired types.\n\nSome stem cells form tumors after transplantation; pluripotency is linked to tumor formation especially in embryonic stem cells, fetal proper stem cells, induced pluripotent stem cells. Fetal proper stem cells form tumors despite multipotency.\n\nSome of the fundamental patents covering human embryonic stem cells are owned by the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation (WARF) – they are patents 5,843,780, 6,200,806, and 7,029,913 invented by James A. Thomson. WARF does not enforce these patents against academic scientists, but does enforce them against companies.\n\nIn 2006, a request for the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) to re-examine the three patents was filed by the Public Patent Foundation on behalf of its client, the non-profit patent-watchdog group Consumer Watchdog (formerly the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights). In the re-examination process, which involves several rounds of discussion between the USPTO and the parties, the USPTO initially agreed with Consumer Watchdog and rejected all the claims in all three patents, however in response, WARF amended the claims of all three patents to make them more narrow, and in 2008 the USPTO found the amended claims in all three patents to be patentable. The decision on one of the patents (7,029,913) was appealable, while the decisions on the other two were not. Consumer Watchdog appealed the granting of the '913 patent to the USPTO's Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences (BPAI) which granted the appeal, and in 2010 the BPAI decided that the amended claims of the '913 patent were not patentable. However, WARF was able to re-open prosecution of the case and did so, amending the claims of the '913 patent again to make them more narrow, and in January 2013 the amended claims were allowed.\n\nIn July 2013, Consumer Watchdog announced that it would appeal the decision to allow the claims of the '913 patent to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (CAFC), the federal appeals court that hears patent cases. At a hearing in December 2013, the CAFC raised the question of whether Consumer Watchdog had legal standing to appeal; the case could not proceed until that issue was resolved.\n\nDiseases and conditions where stem cell treatment is being investigated include:\n\nResearch is underway to develop various sources for stem cells, and to apply stem cell treatments for neurodegenerative diseases and conditions, diabetes, heart disease, and other conditions. Research is also underway in generating organoids using stem cells, which would allow for further understanding of human development, organogenesis, and modeling of human diseases.\n\nIn more recent years, with the ability of scientists to isolate and culture embryonic stem cells, and with scientists' growing ability to create stem cells using somatic cell nuclear transfer and techniques to create induced pluripotent stem cells, controversy has crept in, both related to abortion politics and to human cloning.\n\nHepatotoxicity and drug-induced liver injury account for a substantial number of failures of new drugs in development and market withdrawal, highlighting the need for screening assays such as stem cell-derived hepatocyte-like cells, that are capable of detecting toxicity early in the drug development process.\n\n"}
{"id": "24487447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24487447", "title": "Suicide of Bill Sparkman", "text": "Suicide of Bill Sparkman\n\nWilliam Edwin \"Bill\" Sparkman, Jr. (August 12, 1958 – September 12, 2009) was an American schoolteacher and Field Representative for the United States Census Bureau found dead in September 2009 under suspicious circumstances. After more than two months of investigation, police concluded that his death was a suicide, staged by him to look like a homicide, so that his family could collect life insurance.\n\nSparkman was raised in Mulberry, Florida, the oldest of three sons of a high school principal and a furniture company executive. Sparkman was an altar boy as a child. In high school, he wrote for the local weekly newspaper, \"The Mulberry Press\", and was the football team manager. An Eagle Scout, he worked for the Boy Scouts of America as an adult, overseeing the programs in Polk and Hillsborough counties. This work later took him to Atlanta, Georgia, then London, Kentucky in 1993.\n\nOnce in Kentucky he raised his adopted son alone, joined a local Methodist Church, and for nine years worked at an elementary school as a volunteer and instructional assistant. In 2005 Sparkman began part-time work with the United States Census Bureau and studied education with Western Governors University, an online college. In 2007, after medical treatment of an ingrown toe nail, Sparkman's doctor identified a cyst which led to his diagnosis of Stage-3 non-Hodgkin's lymphoma cancer. He continued teaching while receiving chemotherapy treatments from November 2007 to March 2008, during which time he completed his academic coursework and was invited to speak at the commencement ceremony at Western Governors University in Salt Lake City, Utah. After graduation he pursued a position as a middle school math teacher.\n\nSparkman's body was discovered on September 12, 2009 by attendees of a family reunion paying a visit to Hoskins Cemetery in rural Clay County, Kentucky within Daniel Boone National Forest. He had been reported missing from work three days earlier while working on the American Community Survey for the U.S. Census, covering a local five county area. Sparkman was reportedly found with a rope around his neck, tied to a tree while in contact with the ground, wearing only socks, with the word \"fed\" written on his chest in felt-tip marker. It was reported in the media that the word had been written upside-down or from an upside-down point of view and therefore, the police eventually concluded, by Sparkman himself. His census ID was taped to the side of his neck. He was gagged, with duct tape around his hands and feet and over his mouth and eyes. Kentucky State Police criticized many media reports of the death, such as asserting that he was hanging from a tree when he was actually tied to a tree with a rope around his neck.\n\nAuthorities eventually determined that Sparkman's death was a suicide, staged to look like a homicide. Initially, police said that Sparkman's death was not natural, but hadn't ruled whether it was a homicide, a suicide, or an accident. After an investigation lasting more than two weeks by the Kentucky State Police, Sparkman's 19-year-old son, Josh Sparkman, expressed frustration and called it \"disrespectful\" that suicide or accident were still being considered. In the ensuing days, Sparkman's son further said he was certain the death was a homicide, noting his father's truck had been \"ransacked\" with items stolen, such as Sparkman's census laptop and a family wedding ring, items not discovered by investigators.\n\nPreliminary findings of the local coroner indicated Sparkman died from asphyxiation, and the Census Bureau's regional office in Charlotte, North Carolina said law enforcement called it \"an apparent homicide\". On October 6, Sparkman's body was released to his family, but the State Medical Examiner's Office stated it was not resolving the case. It had only established the cause of death, not the manner of death, and it was still learning \"bits and pieces of information\". The Kentucky State Police agreed the case was \"perplexing\". The \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that \"the case so far is notable for the lack of details divulged by law enforcement officials\". In late October, officials reported the case was close to resolution and they were careful in \"not rushing a decision\". John Berry, director of the Office of Personnel Management, stated his resolve to \"come down on these perpetrators as hell hath no fury.\"\n\nOn November 23, investigators declared the death a suicide. According to reports, Sparkman, who had previously battled non-Hodgkins lymphoma, was suspected to have believed his cancer had returned, and just prior to his death had taken out life insurance policies totalling $600,000 which would have been paid to his financially struggling son in the event of death and which would not pay out for suicide or death from cancer.\n\nRegional Director Wayne Hatcher of the Census Bureau's Charlotte, N.C. regional office, which has jurisdiction over a five-state area that includes Kentucky, held a small memorial service at the cemetery in Clay County on October 11. He said other employees had reacted to the death by requesting to work in teams during census gathering. While law enforcement conducted its investigation of the death, the United States Census Bureau suspended its work in Clay County.\n\nBecause of Sparkman's status as a Federal Census Bureau worker and the word \"fed\" written on his body, the incident drew national attention. On MSNBC's \"The Rachel Maddow Show\", Maddow speculated that a dislike among area residents of the U.S. federal government may have contributed to Sparkman's death. Some scholars disagreed, saying there isn't \"an outpouring of anti-government sentiment in the region\" and that \"distrust of government\" in the area is comparable to the rest of the country. However, an Associated Press report stated the area \"has a reputation for mistrusting government, dating back to the days of moonshiners and 'revenuers'\", and that it is a top marijuana producer where federal agents have held drug and corruption raids numerous times. Among those convicted for drug and corruption charges locally were a former mayor, former city councilmen, an assistant police chief, a county clerk, a magistrate, an election commissioner, the county's school superintendent, and circuit court judge were indicted for voter fraud in March 2009. \"The Christian Science Monitor\" also reported on possible connections to nearby drug activities and anti-government motives. Clay County is one of the poorest counties in the United States and residents feared the incident would add to its negative stereotype, despite progress in education and efforts against crime.\n\nSome suggested Sparkman's death may have been related to controversies over the upcoming 2010 federal census. Earlier in 2009 several leading conservatives and Republican political figures spoke out against ACORN's involvement in census surveys and boycotted IT over concerns that the census could be used against citizens. Some libertarians faulted the census for contributing to the expanding government and Latino activists boycotted it to push for immigration reform. The \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that in the absence of public findings by investigators, some writers in the liberal blogosphere concluded that the death was the result of anti-government rhetoric during the presidency of Barack Obama.\n\nThe Kentucky State Police, which conducted the investigation, noted that there had been wide misinformation and speculation from the media coverage of the incident. Robert Stivers, the Republican state senator from Clay County, said Sparkman's death had been \"sensationalized\" because of his status as a federal census worker. In late October, the KSP commander in charge of the case said baseless media speculation \"has been a detriment to the investigation\" by requiring investigators to examine those claims.\n\nOn December 11, an episode of the TV show \"Law & Order\" entitled \"FED\" featured a murder victim based on Sparkman, found shirtless with the word \"FED\" written on his chest. However, this victim was a conservative campaign employee who was plotting against an ACORN-like organization.\n\nSparkman's son, Josh, was adamant that his father did not commit suicide. He said a man who fights cancer as long as Sparkman had does not commit suicide, after showing the fight to live every day.\n"}
{"id": "19978931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19978931", "title": "The Choice (philosophy book)", "text": "The Choice (philosophy book)\n\nThe Choice (2008) is a philosophy book, where the author Eliyahu M. Goldratt explains his way of thinking about reality and the consequences of thinking clearly.\n\nThe book is structured as a dialogue between the author and his daughter Efrat, where he attempts to explain clearly the way he thinks, and the obstacles that prevent people from thinking in the same fashion. Interspersed between the dialogues are short cases that demonstrate or further explore the points raised in the discussion.\n\nThe content of this book might be seen as explaining the basic principles upon which are based the TOC Thinking Processes.\n\nIn the Revised Edition (2010) Efrat's own notes are included as she made during the conversation with her father, helping the reader determine the true essence of the book.\n"}
{"id": "20844067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20844067", "title": "The Secret (book)", "text": "The Secret (book)\n\nThe Secret is a best-selling 2006 self-help book by Rhonda Byrne, based on the earlier film of the same name. It is based on the belief of the law of attraction, which claims that thoughts can change a person's life directly. The book has sold 30 million copies worldwide and has been translated into 50 languages.\n\n\"The Secret\" was released as a film in March 2006, and later the same year as a book. The book is influenced by Wallace Wattles' 1910 book \"The Science of Getting Rich\", which Byrne received from her daughter during a time of personal trauma in 2004. NY Times bestselling authors of \"The Passion Test\", Janet Bray Attwood and Chris Attwood, are not featured in the film or the book, but arranged 36 of the 52 interviews for the film, many of which are referenced in the book.\n\nByrne re-introduces a notion originally popularized by persons such as Madame Blavatsky and Norman Vincent Peale, which suggests that thinking about certain things will make them appear in one's life. Byrne provides examples of historical persons who have allegedly achieved this. Byrne cites a three-step process: ask, believe, and receive. This is based on a quotation from the Bible's : \"And all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive.\"\n\nByrne highlights the importance of gratitude and visualization in achieving one's desires, along with alleged examples. Later chapters describe how to improve one's prosperity, relationships, and health, with more general thoughts about the universe.\n\nThe book has been translated into 50 languages and has sold over 30 million copies. Due partly to an appearance on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", the book and film had grossed $300 million in sales by 2009. Byrne has subsequently released \"Secret\" merchandise and several related books.\n\nUS TV host Oprah Winfrey is a proponent of the book. On The Larry King Show she said that the message of \"The Secret\" is the message she's been trying to share with the world on her show for the past 21 years. Author Rhonda Byrne was later invited to her show along with people who vow by \"The Secret\".\n\nElizabeth Scott states the pros and cons of the book in her Verywell review. The pros she points out are that it is empowering, that even if things seem bleak it reminds you that there is a lot that you can do to change your circumstances. It gives the reader research on optimism, visualization, and the power of perspective, while stating that \"The Secret\" encourages people to really visualize their goals clearly in order to attract what they want. The cons that Scott points out are that some people believe that it conflicts with their religious values, while others see it as a complementary approach. The book does spend considerable time on how to use the Law of Attraction to gain expensive material possessions, and without direct action; many people have asserted that having such a focus on external things and material wealth goes against the spiritual wisdom of the Law of Attraction. Other cons that Scott points out are the criticism of the idea that we create our own difficult circumstances in life, pointing out people born in extreme poverty, and that The Law of Attraction is not scientifically proven, but more of an anecdotally-observed phenomenon.\" Her final thoughts are: \"Though there are some hiccups to it, I would say that this book can provide some excellent opportunities for stress relief, and a rough road map to a better life.\n\nValerie Frankel of \"Good Housekeeping\" wrote an article where she tries the principles of \"The Secret\" for four weeks. While she reached some of her goals, others had improved. Frankel's final assessment is: \"Counting my blessings has been uplifting, reminding me of what's already great about my life. Visualization has forced me to pay attention to what I really desire. And laughing is never a bad idea. If you ignore The Secret's far-too-simplistic maxims (no, you will not be doomed to a miserable life for thinking negative thoughts) and the hocus-pocus (the cosmos isn't going to deliver a new car; it's busy), there's actually some helpful advice in the book. But it's nothing you don't already know.\" \n\nIn 2009, Barbara Ehrenreich published \"Bright-Sided: How the Relentless Promotion of Positive Thinking Has Undermined America\" as a reaction to self-help books such as \"The Secret\", claiming that they promote political complacency and a failure to engage with reality. \n\nJohn G. Stackhouse, Jr. has provided historical context, locating Byrne's book in the tradition of New Thought and popular religion, and concluding that \"it isn’t new, and it isn’t a secret\".\n\nByrne's scientific claims, in particular concerning quantum physics, have been rejected by a range of authors including Christopher Chabris and Daniel Simons at \"The New York Times\" and Harvard physicist Lisa Randall. Mary Carmichael and Ben Radford, writing for the Center for Inquiry, have also pointed out that \"The Secret\" has no scientific foundation, stating that Byrne's book represents: \"a time-worn trick of mixing banal truisms with magical thinking and presenting it as some sort of hidden knowledge: basically, it’s the new New Thought.\"\n"}
{"id": "20817153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20817153", "title": "Thomas Cochran (judge)", "text": "Thomas Cochran (judge)\n\nThomas Cochran (1777 – October 8, 1804) was a Nova Scotia lawyer and judge in Prince Edward Island and Upper Canada.\n\nCochran was born in Halifax, the son of Thomas Cochran, a merchant and member of the Nova Scotia House of Assembly for Liverpool, Nova Scotia and Jane Allen. Cochran was one of 8 children born to his father's second wife.\n\nHe studied at King's College, spent time in Quebec before headed to England to further his studies at Lincoln's Inn and was called to the English bar in 1801. In that same year, Cochran was appointed Chief Justice for Prince Edward Island.\n\nIn June 1802, he was named judge for the Court of King's Bench for Upper Canada and headed west from Prince Edward Island. Cochran was travelling aboard the schooner HMS Speedy to attend a trial in the province when the ship sunk in a winter storm on Lake Ontario in 1804. There were no survivors. He was replaced on the bench by Robert Thorpe.\n\n"}
{"id": "45719532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45719532", "title": "William Henry Birkbeck", "text": "William Henry Birkbeck\n\nMajor-General Sir William Henry Birkbeck, (8 April 1863 – 16 April 1929) was a British Army officer and administrator. He served in the Second Boer War and First World War, and was the director of remounts at British Army Headquarters from 1912 to 1920.\n\nBirkbeek was born on 8 April 1863 in Settle, North Yorkshire in England to banker Joseph Birkbeck and Mary Elizabeth (\"née\" Mackesy). He was educated at Summer Fields School and Wellington College, where he was on the cricket team. He then entered the Royal Military College, Sandhurst.\n\nIn 1883, Birkbeek was commissioned as a lieutenant in the 1st King's Dragoon Guards, then sent to India. He served in the Hazara Expedition of 1888 and Chin Lushai Expedition of 1889-90 as a signalling officer. He was mentioned in despatches and received the campaign medal and two clasps, and was promoted to captain on 31 January 1890.\n\nHe became \"aide-de-camp\" to Major-General Henry Clement Wilkinson, commanding the North-Eastern District at York, while he prepared for entrance to Staff College, Camberley. He was in the famous 1896-97 class at Staff College that included Douglas Haig, 1st Earl Haig and Edmund Allenby, 1st Viscount Allenby, and many other officers who distinguished themselves in the Second Boer War and First World War, and was promoted to major on 3 April 1897.\n\nBirkbeck served throughout the Second Boer War in South Africa as assistant Inspector of Remounts and received the brevet promotion to lieutenant-colonel on 29 November 1900. He impressed his superiors, the Commander-in-Chief in South Africa, Lord Kitchener, referred to him in a despatch as \"perturbed by nothing\" and with \"\"considerable ability\".\"\n\nFollowing the war, he served with the War Office for two year as a Staff officer with military education and training under Field-Marshal Sir Henry Wilson, who became one of his closest friends. In 1905, he was posted for a year with the Japanese Army in Manchuria, \"where his immense size and genial nature made an excellent impression on our Allies, and led them to help him with much valuable information for his reports.\"\n\nAfter returning home, he spent several years as commander of the Cavalry School, on Netheravon. In 1912, he returned to the remount service, and served as its director with the War Office from 1912 to 1920.\n\nIn 1905, he married American Mabel (\"née\" Shaw), of New Brighton, Staten Island. They had three sons.\n\nIn 1915, he suffered a fall from his horse and was injured, and never fully recovered. He died after a fall while hiking at St. Briac, near Dinard in France in 1929.\n\n"}
{"id": "29406238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29406238", "title": "YPEL3", "text": "YPEL3\n\nYippee-like 3 (Drosophila) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the YPEL3 gene. YPEL3 has growth inhibitory effects in normal and tumor cell lines. One of five family members (YPEL1-5), YPEL3 was named in reference to its Drosophila melanogaster orthologue. Initially discovered in a gene expression profiling assay of p53 activated MCF7 cells, induction of YPEL3 has been shown to trigger permanent growth arrest or cellular senescence in certain human normal and tumor cell types. DNA methylation of a CpG island near the YPEL3 promoter as well as histone acetylation may represent possible epigenetic mechanisms leading to decreased gene expression in human tumors.\n\nHuman \"YPEL3\" is located on the short arm of chromosome 16 (p1611.2) and covers 4.62kb from 30015754 to 30011130 on the reverse strand. The drosophilia Yippee protein was identified as a putative zinc finger motif containing protein exhibiting a high degree of conservation among the cysteines and histidines. Zinc fingers function as structural platforms for DNA binding.\n\nYPEL3 was first identified as murine SUAP, named for small unstable apoptotic protein because of its apparent role in cellular growth inhibition via apoptosis when studied in myeloid precursor cell lines . SUAP later attained its current designation as YPEL3 (Yippee like three), after it was discovered to be one of five human genes possessing homology with the Drosophila Yippee protein.\n\nThe Drosophilia Yippee protein was originally discovered in a yeast interaction trap screen when it was found to physically interact with \"Hyalophora cecropia\" Hemolin. After subsequent cloning and sequencing experiments Yippee was found to be a conserved gene family of proteins present in a diverse range of eukaryotic organisms, ranging from fungi to humans. When analyzed at the amino acid level, Drosophila melanogaster Yippee and YPEL1 displayed a high level of homology (76%). During later sequence analysis of human chromosome 22, researchers identified a gene family \"YPEL1-YPEL5\", which had high homology with the Drosophila \"Yippee\" gene.\n\nYPEL3’s role as a novel tumor suppressor and its involvement in cellular proliferation were discovered during experiments to investigate p53 dependent cell cycle arrest. While investigating the p53 tumor suppressor protein, microarray studies which targeted Hdmx and Hdm2, both p53 negative regulators, revealed YPEL3 as a potential p53 regulated gene in MCF7 breast cancer cells. Investigation into its function led to the discovery of YPEL3 being a novel protein whose growth suppressive activity is thought to be mediated through a cellular senescence pathway.\n\np53 is a tumor suppressor protein encoded by the human gene \"TP53\" whose function is to prevent unregulated cell growth. p53 can be activated in response to a wide variety of cellular stressors, both oncogenic and non-oncogenic. An important checkpoint in a complex pathway, activated p53 has been shown to bind DNA and transcriptionally regulate genes that can mediate a variety of cellular growth processes including DNA repair, growth arrest, cellular senescence and apoptosis. The importance of functioning p53 in the regulation of the cell cycle is evident in that 55% of human cancers exhibit p53 mutations.\n\nYPEL3 was discovered to be a possible p53 target after a screen for such genes was performed in MCF7 breast cancer cells following RNAi knockdown of p53 negative inhibitors. In both human normal and tumor cell lines, YPEL3 has been shown to be a p53-inducible gene. Two putative p53 binding sites have been identified, one 1.3-Kbp 5' of the YPEL3 promoter and another upstream of the YPEL3 promoter.\n\nAs a part of the p53 pathway response and its anti-proliferation role, cellular senescence has gained attention for its working relationship with tumor suppressor genes. Characterized by the limited ability of cultured normal cells to divide, senescence has been shown to be triggered through oncogenic activation( premature senescence) as well as telomere shortening as the result of successive rounds of DNA replication (replicative senescence). Recognized hallmarks of cellular senescence include senescence associated(SA)beta galactosidase staining and the appearance of senescence-associated heterochromatic foci(SAHF) within the nuclei of senescent cells.\n\nAlthough studies in murine myeloid precursor cell lines indicated YPEL3 to have a role in apoptosis, human YPEL3 failed to demonstrate an apoptotic response using sub-G1 or poly ADP ribose polymerase cleavage as accepted indicators of programmed cell death. YPEL3 has been shown to trigger premature senescence when studied in IMR90 primary human fibroblasts. Studies in U2OS osteosarcoma cells and MCF7 breast cancer cells have also demonstrated increased cellular senescence upon YPEL3 induction. As further possible evidence to its function, reduced expression of YPEL3 has been observed in ovarian, lung, and colon tumor cell lines.\n\nEpigenetics is the study of changes in gene activity that do not involve alterations to genetic code, or DNA. Instead, just above the genome sits various epigenetic markers which serve to provide instructions to activate or inactivate genes to varying degrees. This silencing or activation of genes has been recognized to play an important role in the differentiation of nascent cells and several human disease states including cancer. Unlike genetic mutations, epigenetic changes are considered reversible, although further study is needed.\n\nTwo common methods of epigenetic modification are DNA methylation and histone modification. Specifically, hypermethylation of CpG islands( guanine and cytosine rich spans of DNA) near the promoters of tumor suppressor genes have been documented in specific tumor cell lines. In the case of the tumor suppressors VHL (associated with von Hippel–Lindau disease), p16, hMLH1, and BRCA1(a gene associated with breast cancer susceptibility), hypermethylation of the CpG-island has been shown to be a method of gene inactivation.\n\nBoth histone acetylation and DNA methylation have been studied as possible epigenetic means of regulating YPEL3 expression. When studied in Cp70 ovarian carcinoma cells, hypermethylation of a CpG island immediately upstream of the YPEL3 promoter has been seen to down regulate YPEL3 expression. Hypermethylation seen in the promoters of tumor suppressor genes are cancer type specific, allowing each tumor type to be identifiable with an individual pattern. Such discoveries have led researchers to investigate epigenetic markers as potential diagnostic tools, prognostic factors, and indicators for the responsiveness to treatment of human cancers, although continued study is needed.\n"}
