{"id": "33231662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33231662", "title": "Alfred Lyall (traveller)", "text": "Alfred Lyall (traveller)\n\nAlfred Lyall (6 February 1796 – 11 September 1865) was an English philosopher, editor, clergyman and traveller.\n\nAlfred Lyall was the youngest son of John Lyall (1752–1805), of Findon, Sussex, and Jane Comyn (c.1756–1824). His eldest brother George Lyall, sometime member of parliament for the City of London, became Chairman of the East India Company. Of his other brothers to reach maturity, John Lyall was a Lieutenant-Colonel in the Bombay Army, at that time under the command of the East India Company, Haseldine Lyall joined the Royal Navy, while William Rowe Lyall entered the church and became Dean of Canterbury.\n\nLyall was educated at Eton, matriculated at Trinity College, Cambridge, in November 1813, and graduated Bachelor of Arts in 1818. Following this he spent some time studying and travelling on the Continent, with extended stays in Frankfurt and Geneva. Lyall was especially drawn to Italy, where he acquired some knowledge of art. He was an incessant reader, a serious student of history and philosophical works, but also a lover of poetry.\n\nBy 1820 all of Lyall's surviving brothers and sisters were married and settled, while he was still a bachelor, living with his widowed mother at The Square, Findon, West Sussex. The property is known today as Grey Point. Findon records show that another property called Avery's, larger but less elegant, located a short distance away, also belonged to the Lyall family around this time.\n\nLyall literary leanings brought him an invitation to become editor of \"The Annual Register\", an influential review, which he did from 1822 until 1827, returning to it again in 1837. The winter of 1825–1826 he passed visiting Madeira and Portugal. On his return he published in 1827 a comprehensive narrative entitled \"Rambles in Madeira and in Portugal\". The book was accompanied by a folio volume of lithographic sketches by his friend and fellow traveller James Bulwer, an accomplished artist and keen naturalist.\n\nSubsequently, Lyall returned to Findon and immersed himself in metaphysical studies. His elder brother William Rowe Lyall, taking him in hand, steered him towards an ecclesiastical career. The church was considered a good choice for educated gentry without private means, as it offered a secure and comfortable benefice, while generally allowing the incumbent enough leisure time to pursue literary interests. Before yielding to his brother's advice Lyall wrote a second book, entitled \"A Review of the Principles of Necessary and Contingent Truth\", published anonymously in 1830. This was a complex metaphysical discourse mainly attacking the theories of Hume and Reid. It was intended as an introduction to a projected work of several volumes that was never executed.\n\nLyall took holy orders in 1829, and was appointed curate in Findon. Around the time of his ordination he became engaged to a 20-year-old girl from another old Scots family. Mary Drummond Broadwood (1809–1878) was the fourth daughter of James Schudi Broadwood (1778–1851) of nearby Lyne House, Surrey. Mary's paternal grandfather John Broadwood had established the Broadwood piano company after marrying the daughter of his business partner Burkat Schudi, the Swiss harpsichord maker. Mary's mother was Margaret Schaw Stewart (1778–1849), whose great-uncle was Daniel Stewart of Glenbuckie, best remembered for his association with Bonnie Prince Charlie and the Jacobite rising of 1745.\n\nThe couple were married in December 1830 and by 1835 had moved to Coulsdon, where Alfred was acting as curate in charge. Subsequently, in 1837, he was appointed vicar of Godmersham in Kent.\n\nAt the request of the publishers Rivingtons, Lyall resumed editorship of \"The Annual Register\" after moving to Godmersham, but was soon forced to relinquish the work due to health problems. Thereafter he continued to make sporadic literary contributions to other publications. Most notably in 1848 he was asked to collaborate on the \"Encyclopedia Metropolitana\", an ambitious project conceived by Samuel Taylor Coleridge for the dissemination of universal knowledge, and published in a series of main divisions, over a number of years, each division consisting of multiple volumes. Lyall contributed to the \"Third Division: History of the Christian Church, covering the fourth to twelfth centuries\", which appeared in 1850–51. In 1856 he published another book anonymously, entitled \"Agonistes, or Philosophical Strictures\", which gained him a certain literary reputation. This was his third and last sole-authorship book, a collection of polemics attacking the high churchmen's enemies of the day, most particularly the philosophical theories of John Stuart Mill.\n\nNine children of the marriage survived, two of which – Alfred Comyn Lyall and James Broadwood Lyall – had distinguished careers in British India, leading to Lieutenant-Governorships and knighthoods.\n\nThe family's final move came in 1848, when they relocated to Harbledown, a small parish located on a rise overlooking the cathedral city of Canterbury, where his older brother was now Dean. Alfred did not naturally have the makings of a parish priest – he was too remote from the ordinary people of his congregation, a shortcoming his wife appears to have energetically made up for with charitable work. Despite being a little too 'broad' in his views for a country parson he seems to have given what was expected of him, and was by all accounts well liked and respected by the community he served. Nonetheless, it was wise to take the precaution of publishing his philosophical works anonymously, for it was not altogether appropriate that he should be seen by his congregation as engaging in metaphysical arguments on subjects deemed outside the realm of his parish duties. In any event, his intended circle of readers was undoubtedly well aware of the author's identity – there was little need to advertise his writings further than necessary.\n\nAlfred Lyall remained as rector of Harbledown for the remainder of his life. He died while on a visit to Llangollen, Wales, on 11 September 1865, and was buried at the parish church of St. Michael's, Harbledown, where there is a tablet to his memory. \n\n"}
{"id": "2021591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2021591", "title": "Altruism (biology)", "text": "Altruism (biology)\n\nIn biology, altruism refers to behaviour by an individual that increases the fitness of another individual while decreasing the fitness of the actor. Altruism in this sense is different from the philosophical concept of altruism, in which an action would only be called \"altruistic\" if it was done with the conscious intention of helping another. In the behavioural sense, there is no such requirement. As such, it is not evaluated in moral terms—it is the consequences of an action for reproductive fitness that determine whether the action is considered altruistic, not the intentions, if any, with which the action is performed.\n\nThe term altruism was coined by the French philosopher Auguste Comte in French, as \"altruisme\", for an antonym of egoism. He derived it from an Italian \"altrui\", which in turn was derived from Latin \"alteri\", meaning \"other people\" or \"somebody else\".\n\nAltruistic behaviours appear most obviously in kin relationships, such as in parenting, but may also be evident among wider social groups, such as in social insects. They allow an individual to increase the success of its genes by helping relatives that share those genes. Obligate altruism is the permanent loss of direct fitness (with potential for indirect fitness gain). For example, honey bee workers may forage for the colony. Facultative altruism is temporary loss of direct fitness (with potential for indirect fitness gain followed by personal reproduction); for example, a Florida scrub jay helping at the nest, then gaining parental territory.\n\nIn the science of ethology (the study of behavior), and more generally in the study of social evolution, on occasion, some animals do behave in ways that reduce their individual fitness but increase the fitness of other individuals in the population; this is a functional definition of altruism. Research in evolutionary theory has been applied to social behaviour, including altruism. Cases of animals helping individuals to whom they are closely related can be explained by kin selection, and are not considered true altruism. Beyond the physical exertions that in some species mothers and in some species fathers undertake to protect their young, extreme examples of sacrifice may occur. One example is matriphagy (the consumption of the mother by her offspring) in the spider \"Stegodyphus\"; another example is a male spider allowing a female fertilized by him to eat him. Hamilton's rule describes the benefit of such altruism in terms of Wright's coefficient of relationship to the beneficiary and the benefit granted to the beneficiary minus the cost to the sacrificer. Should this sum be greater than zero a fitness gain will result from the sacrifice.\n\nWhen apparent altruism is not between kin, it may be based on reciprocity. A monkey will present its back to another monkey, who will pick out parasites; after a time the roles will be reversed. Such reciprocity will pay off, in evolutionary terms, as long as the costs of helping are less than the benefits of being helped and as long as animals will not gain in the long run by \"cheating\"—that is to say, by receiving favours without returning them. This is elaborated on in evolutionary game theory and specifically the prisoner's dilemma as social theory.\n\nThe existence of altruism in nature is at first sight puzzling, because altruistic behaviour reduces the likelihood that an individual will reproduce. The idea that \"group selection\" might explain the evolution of altruism was first broached by Darwin himself in The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to Sex, (1871). The concept of group selection has had a chequered and controversial history in evolutionary biology but the uncritical 'good of the species' tradition came to an abrupt halt in the 1960s, due largely to the work of George C. Williams, and John Maynard Smith as well as Richard Dawkins. These evolutionary theorists pointed out that natural selection acts on the individual, and that it is the individual's fitness (number of offspring and grand-offspring produced compared to the rest of the population) that drives evolution. A group advantage (e.g. hunting in a pack) that is disadvantageous to the individual (who might be harmed during the hunt, when it could avoid injury by hanging back from the pack but still share in the spoils) cannot evolve, because the selfish individual will leave, on average, more offspring than those who join the pack and suffer injuries as a result. If the selfishness is hereditary, this will ultimately result in the population consisting entirely of selfish individuals. However, in the 1960s and 1970s an alternative to the \"group selection\" theory emerged. This was the kin selection theory, due originally to W. D. Hamilton. Kin selection is an instance of inclusive fitness, which is based on the notion that an individual shares only half its genes with each offspring, but also with each full sib (See footnote). From an evolutionary genetic point of view it is therefore as advantageous to help with the upbringing of full sibs as it is to produce and raise one's own offspring. The two activities are evolutionarily entirely equivalent. Co-operative breeding (i.e. helping one's parents raise sibs—provided they are full sibs) could thus evolve without the need for group-level selection. This quickly gained prominence among biologists interested in the evolution of social behaviour.\n\nIn 1971 Robert Trivers introduced his reciprocal altruism theory to explain the evolution of helping at the nest of an unrelated breeding pair of birds. He argued that an individual might act as a helper if there was a high probabilistic expectation of being helped by the recipients at some later date. If, however, the recipients did not reciprocate when it was possible to do so, the altruistic interaction with these recipients would be permanently terminated. But if the recipients did not cheat then the reciprocal altruism would continue indefinitely to both parties' advantage. This model was considered by many (e.g. West-Eberhard and Dawkins) to be evolutionarily unstable because it is prone to invasion by cheats for the same reason that cooperative hunting can be invaded and replaced by cheats. However, Trivers did make reference to the Prisoner's Dilemma Game which, 10 years later, would restore interest in Trivers' reciprocal altruism theory, but under the title of \"tit-for-tat\".\n\nIn its original form the Prisoner's Dilemma Game (PDG) described two awaiting trial prisoners, A and B, each faced with the choice of betraying the other or remaining silent. The \"game\" has four possible outcomes: (a) they both betray each other, and are both sentenced to two years in prison; (b) A betrays B, which sets A free and B is sentenced to four years in prison; (c) B betrays A, with the same result as (b) except that it is B who is set free and the other spends four years in jail; (d) both remain silent, resulting in a six-month sentence each. Clearly (d) (\"cooperation\") is the best mutual strategy, but from the point of view of the individual betrayal is unbeatable (resulting in being set free, or getting only a two-year sentence). Remaining silent results in a four-year or six-month sentence. This is exemplified by a further example of the PDG: two strangers attend a restaurant together and decide to split the bill. The mutually best ploy would be for both parties to order the cheapest items on the menu (mutual cooperation). But if one member of the party exploits the situation by ordering the most expensive items, then it is best for the other member to do likewise. In fact, if the fellow diner's personality is completely unknown, and the two diners are unlikely ever to meet again, it is always in one's own best interests to eat as expensively as possible. Situations in nature that are subject to the same dynamics (rewards and penalties) as the PDG define cooperative behaviour: it is never in the individual's fitness interests to cooperate, even though mutual cooperation rewards the two contestants (together) more highly than any other strategy. Cooperation cannot evolve under these circumstances.\n\nHowever, in 1981 Axelrod and Hamilton noted that if the same contestants in the PDG meet repeatedly (the so-called Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma game, IPD) then tit-for-tat (foreshadowed by Robert Triver's reciprocal altruism theory) is a robust strategy which promotes altruism. In \"tit-for-tat\" both players' opening moves are cooperation. Thereafter each contestant repeats the other player's last move, resulting in a seemingly endless sequence of mutually cooperative moves. However, mistakes severely undermine tit-for-tat's effectiveness, giving rise to prolonged sequences of betrayal, which can only be rectified by another mistake. Since these initial discoveries, all the other possible IPD game strategies have been identified (16 possibilities in all, including, for instance, \"generous tit-for-tat\", which behaves like \"tit-for-tat\", except that it cooperates with a small probability when the opponent's last move was \"betray\".), but all can be outperformed by at least one of the other strategies, should one of the players switch to such a strategy. The result is that none is evolutionarily stable, and any prolonged series of the iterated prisoner's dilemma game, in which alternative strategies arise at random, gives rise to a chaotic sequence of strategy changes that never ends.\n\nIn the light of the Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma Game failing to provide a full answer to the evolution of cooperation or altruism, several alternative explanations have been proposed.\n\nThere are striking parallels between altruistic acts and exaggerated sexual ornaments displayed by some animals, particularly certain bird species, such as, amongst others, the peacock. Both are costly in fitness terms, and both are generally conspicuous to other members of the population or species. This led Amotz Zahavi to suggest that both might be fitness signals rendered evolutionarily stable by his handicap principle. If a signal is to remain reliable, and generally resistant to falsification, the signal has to be evolutionarily costly. Thus, if a (low fitness) liar were to use the highly costly signal, which seriously eroded its real fitness, it would find it difficult to maintain a semblance or normality. Zahavi borrowed the term \"handicap principle\" from sports handicapping systems. These systems are aimed at reducing disparities in performance, thereby making the outcome of contests less predictable. In a horse handicap race, provenly faster horses are given heavier weights to carry under their saddles than inherently slower horses. Similarly, in amateur golf, better golfers have fewer strokes subtracted from their raw scores than the less talented players. The handicap therefore correlates with unhandicapped performance, making it possible, if one knows nothing about the horses, to predict which unhandicapped horse would win an open race. It would be the one handicapped with the greatest weight in the saddle. The handicaps in nature are highly visible, and therefore a peahen, for instance, would be able to deduce the health of a potential mate by comparing its handicap (the size of the peacock's tail) with those of the other males. The loss of the male's fitness caused by the handicap is offset by its increased access to females, which is as much of a fitness concern as is its health. An altruistic act is, by definition, similarly costly. It would therefore also signal fitness, and is probably as attractive to females as a physical handicap. If this is the case altruism is evolutionarily stabilized by sexual selection.\nThere is an alternate strategy for identifying fit mates which does not rely on one gender having exaggerated sexual ornaments or other handicaps, but is generally applicable to most, if not all sexual creatures. It derives from the concept that the change in appearance and functionality caused by a non-silent mutation will generally stand out in a population. This is because that altered appearance and functionality will be unusual, peculiar, and different from the norm within that population. The norm against which these unusual features are judged is made up of fit attributes that have attained their plurality through natural selection, while less adaptive attributes will be in the minority or frankly rare. Since the overwhelming majority of mutant features are maladaptive, and it is impossible to predict evolution's future direction, sexual creatures would be expected to prefer mates with the least number of unusual or minority features. This will have the effect of a sexual population rapidly shedding peripheral phenotypic features and canalizing the entire outward appearance and behaviour so that all the members of that population will begin to look remarkably similar in every detail, as illustrated in the accompanying photograph of the African pygmy kingfisher, \"Ispidina picta\". Once a population has become as homogeneous in appearance as is typical of most species, its entire repertoire of behaviours will also be rendered evolutionarily stable, including any altruistic, cooperative and social characteristics. Thus, in the example of the selfish individual who hangs back from the rest of the hunting pack, but who nevertheless joins in the spoils, that individual will be recognized as being different from the norm, and will therefore find it difficult to attract a mate. Its genes will therefore have only a very small probability of being passed on to the next generation, thus evolutionarily stabilizing cooperation and social interactions at whatever level of complexity is the norm in that population.\n\nAltruism in animals describes a range of behaviors performed by animals that may be to their own disadvantage but which benefit others. The costs and benefits are measured in terms of reproductive fitness, or expected number of offspring. So by behaving altruistically, an organism reduces the number of offspring it is likely to produce itself, but boosts the likelihood that other organisms are to produce offspring. There are other forms of altruism in nature other than risk-taking behavior, such as reciprocal altruism. This biological notion of altruism is not identical to the everyday human concept. For humans, an action would only be called 'altruistic' if it was done with the conscious intention of helping another. Yet in the biological sense there is no such requirement. Instead, until we can communicate directly with other species, an accurate theory to describe altruistic acts between species is Biological Market Theory.\nHumans and other animals exchange benefits in several ways, known technically as reciprocity mechanism. No matter what the mechanism, the common thread is that benefits find their way back to the original giver.\n\nAlso known as the \"buddy-system\", mutual affection between two parties prompts similar behavior in both directions without need to track of daily give-and-take, so long as the overall relationship remains satisfactory. This is one of the most common mechanism of reciprocity in nature, this kind is present in humans, primates, and many other mammals.\n\nAlso known as, \"If you're nice, I'll be nice too.\" This mechanism of reciprocity is similar to the heuristic of the golden rule, \"Treat others how you would like to be treated.\" Parties mirror one another's attitudes, exchanging favors on the spot. Instant attitudinal reciprocity occurs among monkeys, and people often rely on it with strangers and acquaintances.\n\nAlso known as, \"what have you done for me lately?\" Individuals keep track of the benefits they exchange with particular partners, which helps them decide to whom to return favors. This mechanism is typical of chimpanzees and very common among human relationships.\nYet some opposing experimental research suggests that calculated or contingent reciprocity does not spontaneously arise in laboratory experimental settings, despite patterns of behavior.\n\nBiological market theory is an extension of the idea of reciprocal altruism, as a mechanism to explain altruistic acts between unrelated individuals in a more flexible system of exchanging commodities. The term 'biological market' was first used by Ronald Noe and Hammerstein in 1994 to refer to all the interactions between organisms in which different organisms function as 'traders' that exchange goods and services such as food and water, grooming, warning calls, shelter, etc. Biological market theory consists of five formal characteristics which present a basis for altruism.\n\n\nThe applicability of biological market theory with its emphasis on partner choice is evident in the interactions between the cleaner wrasse and its \"client\" reef fish. Cleaners have small territories, which the majority of reef fish species actively visit to invite inspection of their surface, gills, and mouth. Clients benefit from the removal of parasites while cleaners benefit from the access to a food source. Some particularly choosy client species have large home ranges that cover several cleaning stations, whereas other clients have small ranges and have access to one cleaning station only (resident clients). Field observations, field manipulations, and laboratory experiments revealed that whether or not a client has choice options influences several aspects of both cleaner and client behaviour. Cleaners give choosy clients priority of access. Choosy clients switch partners if cheated by a cleaner by taking a bite of out of the cleaner, whereas resident clients punish cheats. Cleaners and resident clients, but not choosy clients, build up relationships before normal cleaning interactions take place. Cleaners are particularly cooperative if choosy clients are bystanders of an interaction but less so when resident clients are bystanders.\n\nResearchers tested whether wild white-handed gibbon males from Khao Yai National Park, Thailand, increased their grooming activity when the female partner was fertile. Adult females and males of our study population are codominant (in terms of aggression), they live in pairs or small multi male groups and mate promiscuously. They found that males groomed females more than vice versa and more grooming was exchanged when females were cycling than during pregnancy or lactation. The number of copulations/day was elevated when females were cycling, and females copulated more frequently with males on days when they received more grooming. When males increased their grooming efforts, females also increased their grooming of males, perhaps to equalize give and take. Although grooming might be reciprocated because of intrinsic benefits of receiving grooming, males also interchange grooming as a commodity for sexual opportunities during a female's fertile period.\n\n\n\n\n\nAn interesting example of altruism is found in the cellular slime moulds, such as \"Dictyostelium mucoroides\". These protists live as individual amoebae until starved, at which point they aggregate and form a multicellular fruiting body in which some cells sacrifice themselves to promote the survival of other cells in the fruiting body.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "173378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173378", "title": "Anselm of Laon", "text": "Anselm of Laon\n\nAnselm of Laon (; 1117), properly Ansel (\"\"), was a French theologian and founder of a school of scholars who helped to pioneer biblical hermeneutics.\n\nBorn of very humble parents at Laon before the middle of the 11th century, he is said to have studied under Saint Anselm at Bec, though this is almost certainly incorrect. Other potential teachers of Anselm have been identified, including Bruno of Cologne and Manegold of Lautenbach. By around 1080, he had moved back to his place of birth and was teaching at the cathedral school of Laon, with his brother Ralph. Around 1109, he became dean and chancellor of the cathedral, and in 1115 he was one of Laon's two archdeacons. His school for theology and exegesis rapidly became the most well known in Europe. Famously, in 1113, he expelled Peter Abelard from his school.\n\nThe \"Liber Pancrisi\" () names him, with Ivo of Chartres and William of Champeaux, as one of the three modern masters.\n\nAnselm's greatest work, an interlinear and marginal gloss on the 'Scriptures', the Glossa ordinaria, now attributed to him and his followers, was one of the great intellectual achievements of the Middle Ages. It has been frequently reprinted. The significance of the gloss, which was most likely assembled after Anselm's death by his students, such as Gilbert de la Porrée, and based on Anselm's teaching, is that it marked a new way of learning — it represented the birth of efforts to present discrete patristic and earlier medieval interpretations of individual verses of Scripture in a readily accessible, easily referenced way. This theme was subsequently adopted and extended by the likes of Hugh of St. Victor, Peter Lombard and later Thomas Aquinas, who gave us 'handbooks' for what we would now call theology.\n\nOther commentaries apparently by Anselm have been ascribed to various writers, principally to Anselm of Canterbury.\n\nThe works are collected in Migne. Some of his \"Sententiae\" were edited at Milan by G. Lefevre in 1894. The commentary on the Psalms attributed to Haymo of Halberstadt by Migne has also been identified as possibly being the work of Anselm.\n"}
{"id": "215740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215740", "title": "Bryan Caplan", "text": "Bryan Caplan\n\nBryan Douglas Caplan (born April 8, 1971) is an American economist. Caplan is a professor of economics at George Mason University, research fellow at the Mercatus Center, adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute, and frequent contributor to Freakonomics as well as publishing his own blog, EconLog. He is a self-described economic libertarian. The bulk of Caplan's academic work is in behavioral economics and public economics, especially public choice theory.\n\nCaplan holds a B.A. in economics from the University of California, Berkeley (1993) and a Ph.D. in economics from Princeton University (1997). His thesis is titled \"Three essays on the economics of government behavior.\"\n\n\"The Myth of the Rational Voter: Why Democracies Choose Bad Policies\", published\nin 2007, further develops the \"rational irrationality\" concept from Caplan's earlier academic writing. It draws heavily from the \"Survey of Americans and Economists on the Economy\" in making the argument that voters have systematically biased beliefs about many important economic topics. Caplan writes that rational irrationality is an explanation for the failure of democracy. The book was reviewed in the popular press, including \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The New York Times\", and \"The New Yorker\", as well as in academic publications such as the \"Journal of Libertarian Studies\", \"Public Choice\", \"Libertarian Papers\", and \"The Independent Review\". It received a disparaging critique by Rupert Read in the \"European Review\".\n\nIn 2011 Caplan published a book, \"Selfish Reasons to Have More Kids\", arguing that people often work too hard in child-rearing, and as a result, they are scared of the idea of having children. Caplan's book urged parents to relax with respect to child-rearing. The book argues that as the perceived costs (in terms of child-rearing expense and effort) of having children fell, it made sense to have more children based on the basic theory of supply and demand. The book was reviewed in \"The Wall Street Journal\". The book was also reviewed by \"The Guardian\", RealClearMarkets and the \"Washington Times\". The book also led to debates sponsored by \"The Wall Street Journal\" and \"The Guardian\". \"The Guardian\" had Caplan debating \"Tiger Mom\" Amy Chua on the merits of strict parenting style. The book was also featured in a story on National Public Radio. \"Kirkus Reviews\" described it as \"Inconsistent and unpersuasive.\"\n\n\"The Case Against Education: Why the Education System Is a Waste of Time and Money\", published in 2018 by the Princeton University Press. Drawing on the economic concept of job market signaling and research in educational psychology, the book argues that much of higher education is very inefficient and has only a small effect in improving human capital, contrary to much of the conventional consensus in Labor economics that Caplan claims take the human capital theory for granted.\n\nCaplan was cited as one of the leading proponents of the open borders position in articles in \"The Atlantic\" and \"Vox\". He has also been quoted in other mainstream press pieces on immigration in outlets such as the \"Huffington Post\" and \"Time\" magazine. In the Winter 2012 issue of the peer-reviewed \"Cato Journal\", Caplan published a paper titled \"Why Should We Restrict Immigration?\", where he makes the moral and economic case for open borders while addressing various objections to his stance with practical solutions.\n\nCaplan's anarcho-capitalist views were discussed by Brian Doherty in his book \"Radicals for Capitalism\" and in \"Reason\" magazine. One frequent criticism of Caplan is an accusation that he has engaged in historical negationism by claiming that anarcho-capitalists have a better claim on the history of anarchist thought than mainstream left-anarchists. Despite this, Caplan has criticized one of the most notable examples of an anarchist-inspired society, revolutionary Catalonia during the Spanish Civil War, in an essay entitled \"The Anarcho-Statists of Spain.\"\n\nAfter having long shed a youthful infatuation with the works of Russian American writer Ayn Rand and her philosophical system of Objectivism, in 2004 Caplan wrote in his essay 'An Intellectual Biography', \"I rejected Christianity because I determined that it was, to be blunt, idiotic. I rejected Objectivism and Austrianism, in contrast, as mixtures of deep truths and unfortunate mistakes. Let me begin with the deep truths. The Objectivists were right to insist that reality is objective, human reason able to grasp it, and scepticism without merit. They correctly hold that humans have free will, morality is objective, and the pursuit of self-interest typically morally right.\"\n\nIn his essay, \"\"Atlas Shrugged\" and Public Choice: The Obvious Parallels\", Caplan lauds Ayn Rand's \"Atlas Shrugged\" as making \"an important contribution to social science.\"\n\nHe is married to Corina Caplan, with four children, and resides in Oakton, Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "24855171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24855171", "title": "Chris Huebner", "text": "Chris Huebner\n\nChristopher K. Huebner (born 1969) is an associate professor of theology and philosophy at Canadian Mennonite University, as well as co-editor of Herald Press's Polyglossia series.\n\nHuebner was born and raised in Winnipeg. He received a Bachelor of Theology degree from Canadian Mennonite Bible College in 1992, as well as Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts degrees in philosophy from the University of Manitoba in 1992 and 1995 respectively. He received a Doctor of Philosophy degree in theology and ethics from Duke University in 2002 with the dissertation \"Unhandling History: Anti-Theory, Ethics, and the Practice of Witness\". Prior to teaching at CMU, he was an instructor at Meredith College; and an instructor at Duke University. Huebner's writing is primarily in the area of philosophical theology and can be located at the intersection of politics and epistemology, with a special interest in questions of peace and violence.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11055676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11055676", "title": "Christian views on environmentalism", "text": "Christian views on environmentalism\n\nChristian views on environmentalism vary among different Christians and Christian denominations.\n\nMajor Christian denominations endorse the Biblical calling of our stewardship of God's Creation and our responsibility for its care. Some of this church policy is relatively recent and may not be followed by some parishioners. According to some social science research, conservative Christians and members of the Christian right are typically less concerned about issues of environmentalism than the general public. Many Christians, however, are environmental activists and promote awareness and action at the church, community, and national levels.\n\nGreen Christianity is a broad field that encompasses Christian theological reflection on nature, Christian liturgical and spiritual practices centered on environmental issues, as well as Christian-based activism in the environmental movement. Within the activism arena, green Christianity refers to a diverse group of Christians who emphasize the biblical or theological basis for protecting and celebrating the environment. The term indicates not a particular denomination, but a shared territory of concern.\n\nChristianity has a long historical tradition of reflection on nature and human responsibility. Christianity has a strong tendency toward anthropocentrism, as emphasized in the early environmentalist critique of Lynn Townsend White, Jr.. While some Christians favor a more biocentric approach, Catholic officials and others seek to retain an emphasis on humanity while incorporating environmental concerns within a framework of Creation Care. Christian environmentalists emphasize the ecological responsibilities of all Christians as stewards of God's earth.\n\nBeginning with the Genesis 1:26-28, God instructs humanity to manage the creation in particular ways.\nAdam's early purpose was to give care to the Garden of Eden:\nGreen Christians point out that the biblical emphasis is on stewardship, not ownership—that the earth remains the Lord's (Psalms 24:1) and does not belong to its human inhabitants. Leviticus 25:23 states:\nAs a result of the doctrine of stewardship, Christian environmentalists oppose policies and practices that threaten the health or survival of the planet. Of particular concern to such Christians are the current widespread reliance on non-renewable resources, habitat destruction, pollution, and all other factors that contribute to climate change or otherwise threaten the health of the ecosystem. Many Christian environmentalists have broken with conservative political leaders as a result of these positions.\n\nThe Anglican Communion and the Episcopal Church have strong beliefs about the need for environmental awareness and actions. Reducing carbon footprints and moving toward sustainable living are priorities.\n\nPatriarch Bartholomew I of Constantinople, the \"first among equals\" in the Eastern Orthodox Communion, has voiced support for aspects of the environmentalist movement, as has Pope John Paul II of Rome. Fr. John Chryssavgis serves as advisor to the Ecumenical Patriarch, currently Bartholomew I, on environmental issues such as global warming. Orthodox Christian theology is generally more mystical and panentheistic than the traditions which developed in the Christian West, emphasizing the renewal and transfiguration of the whole creation through Christ's redemptive work. Many Eastern Christian monastics are known for having cultivated unusually close relationships with wild animals.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, Catholicos Nerses V of All Armenians planted a forest stretching 100 hectares. Much of it was destroyed during the Communist era but replanting efforts have begun in the twenty-first century.\n\nThe late Catholicos Karekin I stated that the Armenian Apostolic Church is committed to the defence of creation because harming the gift of God is a sin when man has a duty to care for it.\n\nUnder Catholicos Karekin II, the Armenian Church produced a seven year ecological action plan <ref>\n"}
{"id": "1508784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1508784", "title": "Christina of Markyate", "text": "Christina of Markyate\n\nChristina of Markyate was born with the name Theodora in Huntingdon, England, about 1096–98 and died about 1155. She was an anchoress and Prioress who came from a wealthy Anglo-Saxon family trying to accommodate with the Normans at that time. She became head of a community of nuns. \n\nOriginally named Theodora, she was born into a wealthy merchant family. Her mother's name was Beatrix, marking an effort to appear more Norman, and her father's was Auti. Her mother told a story of \"knowing\" her daughter would be holy because a dove had flown into her sleeve and lived there for seven days while she was pregnant.\n\nAs a child, Theodora is said to have talked to Christ \"as if he were a man whom she could see.\" She befriended an older man named Sueno, who became her first religious mentor. It is mentioned in her hagiography that Sueno had once led an unholy life and that Christina's faith renewed his, so that they helped each other. Theodora visited St Alban's Abbey in Hertfordshire with her parents as a teenager, and the visit apparently instilled in her a deep faith that prompted her to make a private vow of chastity. Of this she told Sueno, but no one else.\n\nWhile visiting an aunt, Elfgifu, Theodora met Bishop Ranulf Flambard. Her aunt was the bishop's concubine and Ranulf lusted after young Theodora, seeking to make her another one of his concubines. According to one account, when Ranulf attempted to force his attentions on her, Theodora suggested that she lock the door to guarantee their privacy. When he agreed, she proceeded to do so, from the outside, trapping him within. Rebuffed, he then exacted revenge by brokering a marriage for her with a young nobleman named Beorhtred.\n\nTheodora's parents readily agreed, but Theodora did not, in view of her vow. Her angry parents arranged for Beorhtred to have access to her room, only to discover next morning that the two had spent the night discussing religious subjects. On one occasion Theodora recounted the life of St Cecilia, who according to legend, was guarded on her wedding night by a vengeful angel. On another occasion, she hid behind a tapestry while Beorhtred searched for her in vain. As word went round of Theodora's plight, a hermit name Eadwine, with the blessing of the Archbishop of Canterbury, helped her escape, disguised in men's clothes. Eadwine then took her to stay with an anchoress at Flamstead named Alfwen, who hid her from her family. Here Theodora changed her name to Christina.\n\nChristina next found shelter with Roger, a hermit and sub-deacon of St Alban's Abbey, whose cell was at Markyate. The hermit Roger (died before 1118), whose death anniversary (12 September) is recorded in the St. Albans Psalter , is likely to have been identical with Roger d'Aubigny, a brother of abbot Richard d'Aubigny (1087–1119) and father of William d'Aubigny (Pincerna). She spent her time in prayer, sewing to support herself. She was a skilled needlewoman, who later embroidered three mitres of superb workmanship for Pope Adrian IV. After two years, Beorhtard released Christina from the marriage contract, and Archbishop Thurstan of York formally annulled the marriage in 1122. Thereafter Christina was able to come out of hiding and move into a small hut.\n\nUpon the death of Roger, Christina took over the hermitage near St Alban's Abbey, where she reportedly experienced frequent visions of Jesus, Mary, and St Margaret. Other women, including her sister Margaret, joined her there. Christina took her vows at St Albans in 1131. Markyate Priory was established in 1145.\n\nGeoffrey de Gorham became abbot of St Albans in 1119, and as prioress, Christina became his close friend and counsellor. Their friendship was such that he is said to have altered the St. Albans Psalter as a gift for her, by having an illuminated \"C\" placed at the beginning of Psalm 105.\n\nHer Latin \"Vita\" was apparently written by a monk of St Alban's Abbey. This hagiography is considered to be one of the most realistic known. Some parts still follow the typical route of hagiographies – a vow of chastity, overcoming all obstacles including marriage, and even being an anchoress – but others pull away from the norm. Christina is shown as having power as prioress of St Albans. She is also one of very few shown to have sexual desire, even though she overcomes it.\n\nHer hagiography is incomplete. Parts were lost in a fire in the 18th century and it is unknown whether the biographer wrote the account before or after her death.\n\nIn the light of the priory's legal foundation by St Paul's, the friendship between Christina and Geoffrey seems likely to go back to a fiction by Abbot Robert de Gorron (1151–1166) or by the chronicler Matthew Paris (c. 1200–1259), who alleged in his chronicle that St Alban's Abbey had clerical competence over the nuns of Markyate. \"It would almost seem that in the \"Gesta Abbatum\" the origins of Markyate and Sopwell have been confused. There Markyate Priory is said to have arisen through the occupation of the hermitage of Roger, a former monk of St. Albans, by a saintly recluse called Christina, for whom abbot Geoffrey built a house. But in reality Markyate was not dependent on St. Albans, as it would have been if founded by the abbot, and as Sopwell was.\" \"It is therefore altogether very possible that what we are dealing with here is a later piece of fiction from a monastic chronicler.\" A medieval cult of the anchoress Christina is not substantiated by liturgical or historical sources. The existence of the \"Vita\" and references to Christina in the \"Gesta Abbatum Monasterii Sancti Albani\" still suggest some interest in instigating such a cult in the 13th and 14th centuries.\n\n\n\nWomen in Anglo-Saxon society\n"}
{"id": "404048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404048", "title": "Computing Machinery and Intelligence", "text": "Computing Machinery and Intelligence\n\n\"Computing Machinery and Intelligence\" is a seminal paper written by Alan Turing on the topic of artificial intelligence. The paper, published in 1950 in \"Mind\", was the first to introduce his concept of what is now known as the Turing test to the general public.\n\nTuring's paper considers the question \"Can machines think?\" Since the words \"think\" and \"machine\" cannot be defined in a clear way that satisfies everyone, Turing suggests we \"replace the question by another, which is closely related to it and is expressed in relatively unambiguous words.\" To do this, he must first find a simple and unambiguous idea to replace the word \"think\", second he must explain exactly which \"machines\" he is considering, and finally, armed with these tools, he formulates a new question, related to the first, that he believes he can answer in the affirmative.\n\nRather than trying to determine if a machine is thinking, Turing suggests we should ask if the machine can win a game, called the \"Imitation Game\". The original Imitation game that Turing described is a simple party game involving three players. Player A is a man, player B is a woman and player C (who plays the role of the interrogator) can be of either sex. In the Imitation Game, player C is unable to see either player A or player B (and knows them only as X and Y), and can communicate with them only through written notes or any other form that does not give away any details about their gender. By asking questions of player A and player B, player C tries to determine which of the two is the man and which is the woman. Player A's role is to trick the interrogator into making the wrong decision, while player B attempts to assist the interrogator in making the right one.\nTuring proposes a variation of this game that involves the computer: What will happen when a machine takes the part of A in this game?\" Will the interrogator decide wrongly as often when the game is played like this as he does when the game is played between a man and a woman? These questions replace our original, 'Can machines think? \nSo the modified game becomes one that involves three participants in isolated rooms: a computer (which is being tested), a human, and a (human) judge. The human judge can converse with both the human and the computer by typing into a terminal. Both the computer and human try to convince the judge that they are the human. If the judge cannot consistently tell which is which, then the computer wins the game.\n\nAs Stevan Harnad notes, the question has become \"Can machines do what we (as thinking entities) can do?\" In other words, Turing is no longer asking whether a machine can \"think\"; he is asking whether a machine can \"act\" indistinguishably from the way a thinker acts. This question avoids the difficult philosophical problem of pre-defining the verb \"to think\" and focuses instead on the performance capacities that being able to think makes possible, and how a causal system can generate them.\n\nSome have taken Turing's question to have been \"Can a computer, communicating over a teleprinter, fool a person into believing it is human?\" but it seems clear that Turing was not talking about fooling people but about generating human cognitive capacity.\n\nTuring also notes that we need to determine which \"machines\" we wish to consider. He points out that a human clone, while man-made, would not provide a very interesting example. Turing suggested that we should focus on the capabilities of digital machinery—machines which manipulate the binary digits of 1 and 0, rewriting them into memory using simple rules. He gave two reasons.\n\nFirst, there is no reason to speculate whether or not they can exist. They already did in 1950.\n\nSecond, digital machinery is \"universal\". Turing's research into the foundations of computation had proved that a digital computer can, in theory, simulate the behaviour of any other digital machine, given enough memory and time. (This is the essential insight of the Church–Turing thesis and the universal Turing machine.) Therefore, if \"any\" digital machine can \"act like it is thinking\" then, \"every\" sufficiently powerful digital machine can. Turing writes, \"all digital computers are in a sense equivalent.\"\n\nThis allows the original question to be made even more specific. Turing now restates the original question as \"Let us fix our attention on one particular digital computer C. Is it true that by modifying this computer to have an adequate storage, suitably increasing its speed of action, and providing it with an appropriate programme, C can be made to play satisfactorily the part of A in the imitation game, the part of B being taken by a man?\"\n\nHence Turing states that the focus is not on \"whether all digital computers would do well in the game nor whether the computers that are presently available would do well, but whether there are imaginable computers which would do well\". What is more important is to consider the advancements possible in the state of our machines today regardless of whether we have the available resource to create one or not.\n\nHaving clarified the question, Turing turned to answering it: he considered the following nine common objections, which include all the major arguments against artificial intelligence raised in the years since his paper was first published.\n\n\nIn the final section of the paper Turing details his thoughts about the Learning Machine that could play the imitation game successfully.\n\nHere Turing first returns to Lady Lovelace's objection that the machine can only do what we tell it to do and he likens it to a situation where a man \"injects\" an idea into the machine to which the machine responds and then falls off into quiescence. He extends on this thought by an analogy to an atomic pile of less than critical size which is to be considered the machine and an injected idea is to correspond to a neutron entering the pile from outside the pile; the neutron will cause a certain disturbance which eventually dies away. Turing then builds on that analogy and mentions that if the size of the pile were to be sufficiently large then a neutron entering the pile would cause a disturbance that would continue to increase until the whole pile were destroyed, the pile would be supercritical. Turing then asks the question as to whether this analogy of a super critical pile could be extended to a human mind and then to a machine. He concludes that such an analogy would indeed be suitable for the human mind with \"There does seem to be one for the human mind. The majority of them seem to be \"subcritical,\" i.e., to correspond in this analogy to piles of sub critical size. An idea presented to such a mind will on average give rise to less than one idea in reply. A smallish proportion are supercritical. An idea presented to such a mind that may give rise to a whole \"theory\" consisting of secondary, tertiary and more remote ideas\". He finally asks if a machine could be made to be supercritical.\n\nTuring then mentions that the task of being able to create a machine that could play the imitation game is one of programming and he postulates that by the end of the century it will indeed be technologically possible to program a machine to play the game. He then mentions that in the process of trying to imitate an adult human mind it becomes important to consider the processes that lead to the adult mind being in its present state; which he summarizes as:\nGiven this process he asks whether it would be more appropriate to program a child's mind instead of an adults mind and then subject the child mind to a period of education. He likens the child to a newly bought notebook and speculates that due to its simplicity it would be more easily programmed. The problem then is broken down into two parts, the programming of a child mind and its education process. He mentions that a child mind would not be expected as desired by the experimenter (programmer) at the first attempt. A learning process that involves a method of reward and punishment must be in place that will select desirable patterns in the mind. This whole process, Turing mentions, to a large extent is similar to that of evolution by natural selection where the similarities are:\nFollowing this discussion Turing addresses certain specific aspects of the learning machine: \n\nTuring concludes by speculating about a time when machines will compete with humans on numerous intellectual tasks and suggests tasks that could be used to make that start. Turing then suggests that abstract tasks such as playing chess could be a good place to start another method which he puts as \"..it is best to provide the machine with the best sense organs that money can buy, and then teach it to understand and speak English.\".\n\nAn examination of the development in artificial intelligence that has followed reveals that the learning machine did take the abstract path suggested by Turing as in the case of Deep Blue, a chess playing computer developed by IBM and one which defeated the world champion Garry Kasparov (though, this too is controversial) and the numerous computer chess games which can outplay most amateurs. As for the second suggestion Turing makes, it has been likened by some authors as a call to finding a simulacrum of human cognitive development. And such attempts at finding the underlying algorithms by which children learn of the features of the world around them are only beginning to be made.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58839004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58839004", "title": "Consciousness (book)", "text": "Consciousness (book)\n\nConsciousness is a 2009 book by Christopher S. Hill in which he offers explanations of six forms of consciousness: agent consciousness, propositional consciousness, introspective consciousness, relational consciousness, phenomenal consciousness, and experiential consciousness.\n\nThe book has been reviewed by Joseph Levine, Fred Dretske, Daniel Stoljar, \nAdam Pautz, Ellen Fridland, Erhan Demircioglu and Gabriel Jucá.\n\n"}
{"id": "3404866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3404866", "title": "Constructivist teaching methods", "text": "Constructivist teaching methods\n\nConstructivist teaching is based on constructivist learning theory. Constructivist teaching is based on the belief that learning occurs as learners are actively involved in a process of meaning and knowledge construction as opposed to passively receiving information. Learners are the makers of meaning and knowledge.\n\nConstructivist approach teaching methods are based on constructivist learning theory. Along with John Dewey, Jean Piaget researched childhood development and education. Both Dewey and Piaget were very influential in the development of informal education. Dewey's idea of influential education suggests that education must engage with and enlarge experience and the exploration of thinking and reflection associated with the role of educators. Piaget's role in the constructivist teaching suggests that we learn by expanding our knowledge by experiences which are generated through play from infancy to adulthood which are necessary for learning. Their theories are now encompassed in the broader movement of progressive education. Constructivist learning theory says that all knowledge is constructed from a base of prior knowledge. Children are not a blank slate and knowledge cannot be imparted without the child making sense of it according to his or her current conceptions. Therefore, children learn best when they are allowed to construct a personal understanding based on experiencing things and reflecting on those experiences.\n\nOne of the primary goals of using constructivist teaching is that students learn how to learn by giving them the training to take initiative for their own learning experiences.\n\nAccording to Audrey Gray, the characteristics of a constructivist classroom are as follows:\n\nFurthermore, in the constructivist classroom, students work primarily in groups and learning and knowledge are interactive and dynamic. There is a great focus and emphasis on social and communication skills, as well as collaboration and exchange of ideas. This is contrary to the traditional classroom in which students work primarily alone, learning is achieved through repetition, and the subjects are strictly adhered to and are guided by a textbook. Some activities encouraged in constructivist classrooms are:\n\nConstructivist approaches can also be used in online learning. For example, tools such as discussion forums, wikis and blogs can enable learners to actively construct knowledge. \nA contrast between the traditional classroom and the constructivist classroom is illustrated below:\n\nThe Traditional Classroom \n\nThe constructivist Classroom\n\nBecause existing knowledge schemata are explicitly acknowledged as a starting point for new learning, constructivist approaches tend to validate individual and cultural differences and diversity.\n\nIn the constructivist classroom, the teacher's role is to prompt and facilitate discussion. Thus, the teacher's main focus should be on guiding students by asking questions that will lead them to develop their own conclusions on the subject. Parker J. Palmer (1997) suggests that good teachers join self, subject, and students in the fabric of life because they teach from an integral and undivided self, they manifest in their own lives, and evoke in their students, a capacity for connectedness\".\n\nDavid Jonassen identified three major roles for facilitators to support students in constructivist learning environments:\n\nA brief description of the Jonassen major roles are:\n\nModeling – Jonassen describes Modeling as the most commonly used instructional strategy in CLEs. Two types of modeling exist: behavioural modeling of the overt performance and cognitive modeling of the covert cognitive processes. Behavioural modeling in Constructivist Learning Environments demonstrates how to perform the activities identified in the activity structure. Cognitive modeling articulates the reasoning (reflection-in-action) that learners should use while engaged in the activities.\n\nCoaching – For Jonassen the role of coach is complex and inexact. She acknowledges that a good coach motivates learners, analyzes their performance, provides feedback and advice on the performance and how to learn about how to perform, and provokes reflection and articulation of what was learned. Moreover, she posits that coaching may be solicited by the learner. Students seeking help might press a \"How am I Doing?\" button. Or coaching may be unsolicited, when the coach observes the performance and provides encouragement, diagnosis, directions, and feedback. Coaching naturally and necessarily involves responses that are situated in the learner's task performance (Laffey, Tupper, Musser, & Wedman, 1997).\n\nScaffolding - Scaffolding is a more systemic approach to supporting the learner, focusing on the task, the environment, the teacher, and the learner. Scaffolding provides temporary frameworks to support learning and student performance beyond their capacities. The concept of scaffolding represents any kind of support for cognitive activity that is provided by an adult when the child and adult are performing the task together (Wood & Middleton, 1975).\n\nJonassen has proposed a model for developing constructivist learning environments (CLEs) around a specific learning goal. This goal may take one of several forms, from least to most complex:\n\nJonassen recommends making the learning goals engaging and relevant but not overly structured.\n\nIn CLEs, learning is driven by the problem to be solved; students learn content and theory in order to solve the problem. This is different from traditional objectivist teaching where the theory would be presented first and problems would be used afterwards to practice theory.\n\nDepending on students' prior experiences, related cases and scaffolding may be necessary for support. Instructors also need to provide an authentic context for tasks, plus information resources, cognitive tools, and collaborative tools.\n\nTraditionally, assessment in the classrooms is based on testing. In this style, it is important for the student to produce the correct answers. However, in constructivist teaching, the process of gaining knowledge is viewed as being just as important as the product. Thus, assessment is based not only on tests, but also on observation of the student, the student's work, and the student's points of view. Some assessment strategies include:\n\nA good example of a lesson being taught in a constructivist way, with the teacher mediating learning rather than directly teaching the class is shown by the example of Faraday's candle. There are various forms of this lesson, but all are developed from the Christmas lectures Faraday gave on the functioning of candles. In open constructivist lessons using these lectures as a basis, students are encouraged to discover for themselves how candles work. They do this first by making simple observations, from which they later build ideas and hypotheses which they then go on to test. The teacher acts to encourage this learning. If successful, students can use this lesson to understand the components of combustion, an important chemistry topic.\n\nConstructivist philosophy has a long history of application in education programs for young children, but is used less frequently in adult learning environments. As humans develop, there are qualitative changes in their ability to think logically about experiences, but the processes by which learning occurs, cognitive adaptation and social mediation, are believed to be continuous or remain the same throughout the life. At the heart of constructivist philosophy is the belief that knowledge is not given but gained through real experiences that have purpose and meaning to the learner, and the exchange of perspectives about the experience with others (Piaget & Inhelder, 1969; Vygotsky,1978).\n\nLearning environments for adults based on constructivist philosophy include opportunities for students to make meaningful connections between new material and previous experience, through discovery. One of the simplest ways to do this is asking open-ended questions. Open-ended questions such as \"Tell me about a time when... .\" or \"How might this information be useful to you?\" cause learners to think about how new information may relate to their own experience. Student responses to such questions are opportunities for experiencing the perspectives of others. For these questions to be effective it is critical that instructors focus on teaching content that is useful for participants. The importance of using these types of strategies with adults contributes to what Bain(2004 p. 4) noted as critical learning environments where instructors \"embed\" the skills they are teaching in \"authentic tasks that will arouse curiosity, challenge students to rethink assumptions and examine their mental modes of reality\". Mezirow J. (1997) who asserts that learners need to practice in recognizing frames of reference and using their imaginations to redefine problems from different perspectives. (pg. 10) I made the connection by also adding the point that \"to promote discovery learning, the educator often reframes learner questions in terms of the learner's current level of understanding. Learning contracts, group projects, role play, case studies, and simulations are classroom methods associated with transformative education.\" Such approaches emphasize that learning is not an \"all or nothing\" process but that students learn the new information that is presented to them by building upon knowledge that they already possess. It is therefore important that teachers constantly assess the knowledge their students have gained to make sure that the students' perceptions of the new knowledge are what the teacher had intended. Teachers will find that since the students build upon already existing knowledge, when they are called upon to retrieve the new information, they may make errors. It is known as reconstruction error when we fill in the gaps of our understanding with logical, though incorrect, thoughts. Teachers need to catch and try to correct these errors, though it is inevitable that some reconstruction error will continue to occur because of our innate retrieval limitations.\n\nIn most pedagogies based on constructivism, the teacher's role is not only to observe and assess but to also engage with the students while they are completing activities, wondering aloud and posing questions to the students for promotion of reasoning (DeVries et al., 2002). (ex: I wonder why the water does not spill over the edge of the full cup?) Teachers also intervene when there are conflicts that arise; however, they simply facilitate the students' resolutions and self-regulation, with an emphasis on the conflict being the students' and that they must figure things out for themselves. For example, promotion of literacy is accomplished by integrating the need to read and write throughout individual activities within print-rich classrooms. The teacher, after reading a story, encourages the students to write or draw stories of their own, or by having the students reenact a story that they may know well, both activities encourage the students to \"conceive themselves\" as reader and writers.\n\nCritics have voiced the following arguments against constructivist based teaching instruction:\n\n\nWhile proponents of constructivism argue that constructivist students perform better than their peers when tested on higher-order reasoning, the critics of constructivism argue that this teaching technique forces students to \"reinvent the wheel\". Supporters counter that \"Students do not reinvent the wheel but, rather, attempt to understand how it turns, how it functions.\" Proponents argue that students—especially elementary school-aged children—are naturally curious about the world, and giving them the tools to explore it in a guided manner will serve to give them a stronger understanding of it.\n\nMayer (2004) developed a literature review spanning fifty years and concluded \"The research in this brief review shows that the formula constructivism = hands-on activity is a formula for educational disaster.\" His argument is that active learning is often suggested by those subscribing to this philosophy. In developing this instruction these educators produce materials that require learning to be behaviorally active and not be \"cognitively active\". That is, although they are engaged in activity, they may not be learning (Sweller, 1988). Mayer recommends using guided discovery, a mix of direct instruction and hands-on activity, rather than pure discovery: \"In many ways, guided discovery appears to offer the best method for promoting constructivist learning.\"\n\nKirchner et al. (2006) agree with the basic premise of constructivism, that learners construct knowledge, but are concerned with the instructional design recommendations of this theoretical framework. \"The constructivist description of learning is accurate, but the instructional consequences suggested by constructivists do not necessarily follow.\" (Kirschner, Sweller, and Clark, 2006, p. 78). Specifically, they say instructors often design unguided instruction that relies on the learner to \"discover or construct essential information for themselves\" (Kirchner et al., 2006, p75).\n\nFor this reason they state that it \"is easy to agree with Mayer's (2004) recommendation that we \"move educational reform efforts from the fuzzy and nonproductive world of ideology—which sometimes hides under the various banners of constructivism—to the sharp and productive world of theory-based research on how people learn\" (p. 18). Finally Kirschner, Sweller, and Clark (2006) cite Mayer to conclude fifty years of empirical results do not support unguided instruction.\n\nSpecific approaches to education that are based on constructivism include the following:\n\nAn approach to learning based on the constructivist learning ideologies presented by Jean Piaget (Harel & Papert, 1991). In this approach, the individual is consciously engaged in the construction of a product (Li, Cheng, & Liu, 2013). The utilization of constructionism in educational settings has been shown to promote higher-order thinking skills such as problem-solving and critical thinking (Li et al., 2013).\n\nA learning approach in which the educator uses strategically placed prompts, cues, questions, direct explanations, and modeling to guide student thinking and facilitate an increased responsibility for the completion of a task (Fisher & Frey, 2010).\n\nA structured educational approach which consists of large and small group discussions (Schmidt & Loyens, 2007). Problem-based learning begins with an educator presenting a series of carefully constructed problems or issues to small groups of students (Schmidt & Loyens, 2007). The problems or issues typically pertain to phenomena or events to which students possess limited prior knowledge (Schmidt & Loyens, 2007). The first component of problem-based learning is to discuss prior knowledge and ask questions related to the specific problems or issues (Schmidt & Loyens, 2007). Following the class discussion, there is typically time in which students individually research or reflect on the newly acquired information and/or seek out areas requiring further exploration (Schmidt & Loyens, 2007). After a pre-determined amount of time (as outlined by the educator), students will meet in the same small groups that were composed prior to the class discussion (Schmidt & Loyens, 2007). In the first meeting, groups will spend between one and three hours further discussing the problems or issues from class in addition to presenting any new information collected during individual research (Schmidt & Loyens, 2007). Following the first meeting, students will independently reflect on the group discussion, specifically in comparing thoughts regarding the problems or issues in question (Schmidt & Loyens, 2007). Typically, groups will meet a second time to critically analyse individual and group thoughts and discussions and will attempt to synthesize the information in order to draw conclusions about the given problem or issue (Schmidt & Loyens, 2007). Within the educational setting, problem-based learning has enabled students to actively construct individual understandings of a topic using both prior and newly acquired knowledge (Schmidt & Loyens, 2007). Moreover, students also develop self-directed and group learning skills which ultimately facilitates the comprehension of the problems or issues (Schmidt & Loyens, 2007).\n\nAn educational approach associated with problem-based learning in which the student learns through investigating issues or scenarios (Hakverdi-Can & Sonmez, 2012). In this approach, students pose and answer questions individually and/or collaboratively in order to draw conclusions regarding the specific issues or scenarios (Hakverdi-Can & Sonmez, 2012). Within the educational setting, inquiry-based learning has been beneficial in developing student inquiry, investigation, and collaboration skills, in turn, increasing overall comprehension of the issue or scenario (Hakverdi-Can & Sonmez, 2012).\n\nEffective essential questions include student thought and research, connect to student's reality and can be solved in different ways (Crane, 2009). There are no incorrect answers to essential questions, rather answers reveal student understanding(Crane, 2009).\n\nAn educational approach associated with problem-based learning in which the educator introduces an 'anchor' or theme in which students will be able to explore (Kariuki & Duran, 2004). The 'anchor' acts as a focal point for the entire task, allowing students to identify, define, and explore problems while exploring the topic from a variety of different perspectives (Kariuki & Duran, 2004).\n\nA variety of educational approaches focusing on individuals working together to achieve a specific learning outcome (Hsiung, 2012). \n\nA cooperative learning approach wherein students alternate roles as teacher and learner (Krych, March, Bryan, Peake, Wojciech, & Carmichael, 2005). The utilization of Reciprocal Peer Teaching (RPT) in educational settings has been effective in the development of teamwork, leadership, and communication skills in addition to improving students' understanding of course content (Krych et al., 2005).\n\nA highly structured cooperative learning approach which is implemented in four stages: introduction, focused exploration, reporting and re-shaping, and integration and evaluation. In the introduction stage, the class is divided into heterogeneous 'home' groups consisting of between three and seven students (Karacop & Doymus, 2013). Upon establishing the 'home' groups, the teacher will discuss the subtopics pertaining to the subject matter (Karacop & Doymus, 2013). In the focused exploration stage, each student within all 'home' groups selects one of the subtopics (Karacop & Doymus, 2013). Students from each 'home' group that have selected the same subtopic will form a 'jigsaw' group (Karacop & Doymus, 2013). It is in the 'jigsaw' group that students will explore the material pertaining to the subtopic and will prepare for teaching it to their 'home' group, the reporting and re-shaping stage (Karacop & Doymus, 2013). The approach concludes in the fourth stage, integration and evaluation, wherein each of the 'home' groups combine the learning of each subtopic together to create the completed piece of work (Karacop & Doymus, 2013).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42942751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42942751", "title": "Creative Writers and Day-Dreaming", "text": "Creative Writers and Day-Dreaming\n\nCreative Writers and Day-Dreaming (), was an informal talk given in 1907 by Sigmund Freud, and subsequently published in 1908, on the relationship between unconscious phantasy and creative art.\n\nFreud's argument – that artists, reviving memories of childhood daydreams and play activities, succeeded in making them acceptable through their aesthetic technique – was to be widely influential for interwar modernism.\n\nFreud began his talk by raising the question of where writers drew their material from, suggesting that children at play, and adults day-dreaming, both provided cognate activities to those of the literary artist. Heroic and erotic daydreams or preconscious phantasies in both men and women were seen by Freud as providing substitute satisfactions for everyday deprivations; and the same phantasies were in turn turned into shareable (public) artistic constructs by the creative writer, where they could serve as cultural surrogates for the universal instinctual renunciations inherent in civilization.\n\nFreud saw the aesthetic principle as the ability to turn the private phantasy into a public artefact, using artistic pleasure to release a deeper pleasure founded on the release of forbidden (unconscious) material. The process allowed the writer him/herself to emerge from their introversion and return to the public world. If the phantasies came too close to the unconscious repressed, however, the process would fail, leading either to creative inhibition or to a rejection of the artwork itself.\n\nFreud himself epitomised his essay's argument a decade later in his \"Introductory Lectures\", stating of the true artist that: \"he understands how to work over his daydreams in such a way as to make them lose what is too personal in them and repels strangers, and to make it possible for others to share in the enjoyment of them. He understands, too, how to tone them down so that they do not easily betray their origin from proscribed sources...he has thus achieved \"through\" his phantasy what originally he had achieved only \"in\" his phantasy – honour, power and the love of women\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42399355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42399355", "title": "Daya Krishna", "text": "Daya Krishna\n\nDaya Krishna (1924–2007) was an Indian philosopher. He was sometime Pro Vice Chancellor of Rajasthan University and editor of the Journal of Indian Council of Philosophical Research for over three decades.\nHe has published works in the fields of Indian Philosophy, Western philosophy and aesthetics. His doctoral thesis published as \"The Nature of Philosophy\" is said to have been acclaimed by the British philosopher, Gilbert Ryle, as an outstanding work. His work explores the possibility of looking at Indian traditions through resources drawn from Indian concepts and categories. He has attempted to bring about \"a dialogue between traditional Pundits, thinking and writing in Sanskrit, and scholars who “do” Indian philosophy in English\".\n\n\n\n Daya Krishna - The Open Library \n"}
{"id": "8539701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8539701", "title": "Elisabeth Lloyd", "text": "Elisabeth Lloyd\n\nElisabeth Anne Lloyd (born September 3, 1956) is an American philosopher of biology. She currently holds the Arnold and Maxine Tanis Chair of History and Philosophy of Science and is also professor of biology, adjunct professor of philosophy at Indiana University, affiliated faculty scholar at the Kinsey Institute for Research in Sex, Gender and Reproduction and Adjunct Faculty at the Center for the Integrative Study of Animal Behavior.\n\nLloyd was born in Morristown, New Jersey, and earned her BA in science and political theory from University of Colorado, Boulder in 1980, \"summa cum laude\". Lloyd studied under Bas van Fraassen at Princeton University for a PhD in philosophy 19801984. While a student at Princeton, she spent a year (1983) studying with Richard C. Lewontin at Harvard's Museum of Comparative Zoology.\n\nShe worked as an assistant professor in the Department of Philosophy at University of California, San Diego, 1985–88; and then was assistant professor, then associate professor, then full professor in the Department of Philosophy at the University of California, Berkeley from 1988 to 1999, before moving to Indiana University. Her 2005 book, \"The Case of the Female Orgasm,\" was widely discussed in the scholarly and popular press, including \"Isis\", \"Nature\" and \"The New York Times.\" The book criticizes what it portrays as anti-scientific biases infecting the many proposed adaptive explanations of female orgasm. Lloyd goes on to argue that the available evidence, such as from sexology studies, is far more supportive of a neutral \"byproduct\" explanation put forward by Donald Symons, under which female orgasm is the result of orgasm developing as a species trait due to its critical role in males for procreation (akin to explanations for why nipples, which are required for nursing in females, are also present in males). The book received so much attention that it was lampooned on an episode of \"Saturday Night Live\" because its title sounds like a racy version of a Hardy Boys novel. Lloyd had been working on the subject for two years, when a discussion with Stephen Jay Gould in 1986 led to her providing the basis for his 1987 essay in \"Natural History\" titled 'Freudian Slip', which was reprinted in 1992 as 'Male Nipples and Clitoral Ripples.'\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1939194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1939194", "title": "Emanuele Severino", "text": "Emanuele Severino\n\nEmanuele Severino (February 26, 1929 in Brescia, Italy) is a contemporary Italian philosopher.\n\nSeverino studied at the University of Pavia under Gustavo Bontadini, though he broke publicly from Bontadini in 1970 while both were members of faculty of the Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore in Milan. A student of his as a young man at the Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore was Cardinal Angelo Scola, now Archbishop of Milan.\n\nSeverino spent a number of years on the faculty of the University of Venice as well.\n\nIn 1970, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith ruled that Severino's ideas are not compatible with Christianity as the basis of Severino's belief in \"the eternity of all being,\" a belief said to eliminate a Creator God.\n\nSeverino has received from the President of the Italian Republic the \"Golden medal of the Republic for culture merits\" (\"Medaglia d’oro della Repubblica per i Benemeriti della Cultura\"). He is also a member of Accademia dei Lincei, the official Italian scientific academy. He has won several prizes and writes opinion pieces on the \"Corriere della Sera\" newspaper.\n\nSeverino confronts an ancient problem, rooted in Plato and Aristotle and taken up in the modern era by Heidegger, that of Being. For Severino, all the philosophies which have been formed up to now are characterized by one fundamental error, faith in the Greek sense of becoming. Indeed, since the ancient Greeks, a being (or anything which is) has been considered as coming from nothing, granted existence temporarily, and then returning into nothing.\nSeverino, reflecting on the absolute opposition between Being and non-Being, given that between the two terms there is nothing in common, considers it evident that being can only remain constantly unchanging, not being changed by anything which is not itself. Thus, since Being is the totality of what exists, there can be nothing else besides it endowed with existence (Severino thereby refutes the concept of ontological difference as put forward by Heidegger). For Severino, therefore, the entire history of philosophy is based on the erroneous conviction that Being can become nothing. \nNot many of Severino’s works have been translated, due to the lack of interest in Italian philosophy in the rest of Europe. One of his crucial work has been translated into German: \"Vom Wesen des Nihilismus\", and into English as \"The Essence of Nihilism\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29902028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29902028", "title": "Francisco do Monte Alverne", "text": "Francisco do Monte Alverne\n\nFrancisco do Monte Alverne (August 9, 1784 – December 2, 1858) was a Brazilian Franciscan friar, and the official preacher of the Empire of Brazil.\n\nHe is the correspondent patron of the 14th chair of the Brazilian Academy of Letters.\n\nMonte Alverne was born Francisco José de Carvalho in 1784, to João Antônio da Silva and Ana Francisca da Conceição. In 1802, he entered a Franciscan monastery, where he studied alongside 11 Brazilians and 11 Portuguese people. In 1808, he became a presbyter, and was given the surname Monte Alverne, in a reference to the mount La Verna, where Saint Francis of Assisi received the stigmatas.\n\nLater he became an itinerant preacher and Philosophy teacher. Moving to Rio de Janeiro in 1816, he was proclaimed the royal preacher. He performed the funeral oration of Empress Consort Maria Leopoldina in 1826.\n\nFrom 1836, Monte Alverne started to show signs of blindness. He moved to a friend's house in Niterói, where he died in 1858.\n\nThe Brazilian poet Gonçalves de Magalhães, famous for introducing Romanticism in the Brazilian literature, considers Monte Alverne a forerunner of this movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "13639512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13639512", "title": "Fringe theory", "text": "Fringe theory\n\nA fringe theory is an idea or viewpoint which differs from the accepted scholarship in its field. Fringe theories include the models and proposals of fringe science, as well as similar ideas in other areas of scholarship, such as the humanities. The term \"fringe theory\" is commonly used in a narrower sense as a pejorative, roughly synonymous with pseudo-scholarship. Precise definitions that distinguish between widely held viewpoints, fringe theories, and pseudo-scholarship are difficult to construct because of the demarcation problem. Issues of false balance or false equivalence can occur when fringe theories are presented as being equal to widely accepted theories.\n\nFringe theories are ideas which depart significantly from a prevailing or mainstream theory. A fringe theory is neither a majority opinion nor that of a respected minority. The term in general is closer to the popular understanding of the word \"theory\"—a hypothesis, guess, or uncertain idea—than to the concept of an established scientific theory. Although the term is often used within the context of fringe science, fringe theories have been discussed in diverse areas of scholarship, including Biblical criticism, history, finance, law, medicine, and politics. They even exist in fields of study which are themselves outside the mainstream, such as cryptozoology and parapsychology.\n\nFringe theories meet with varying levels of academic acceptance. Financial journalist Alexander Davidson characterized fringe theories as \"peddled by a small band of staunch supporters,\" but not necessarily without merit. Daniel N. Robinson described them as occupying \"a limbo between the decisive dead end and the ultimately credible productive theory.\" However, the term is also used pejoratively; advocates of fringe theories are dismissed as cranks or crackpots who are out of touch with reality. In this sense, there is some overlap with other dismissive labels, such as pseudoarchaeology, pseudohistory, and pseudoscience. Describing ideas as fringe theories may be less pejorative than describing them as pseudoscholarship; while it is unlikely that anyone would identify their own work as pseudoscience, astrologer David Cochrane is \"proud to be a fringe theorist.\"\n\nThe term is also used to describe conspiracy theories. Such theories \"explain\" historical or political events as the work of a powerful secret organization — \"a vast, insidious, preternaturally effective international conspiratorial network,\" according to Richard Hofstadter. The conspirators are possessed of \"almost superhuman power and cunning,\" as described by historian Esther Webman.\n\nMargaret Wertheim suggested that fringe theories should be treated in a manner similar to outsider art. In 2003 she curated an exhibit at the Santa Monica Museum of Art which was dedicated to the work of fringe physicist Jim Carter.\n\nWertheim wrote that a \"credentialed physicist ... can generally recognize a fringe theory by sight\" when it comes in the form of an eccentrically formatted manuscript. However, it is difficult to distinguish between fringe theories and respected minority theories. A workable definition of what constitutes a fringe theory may not actually be possible. This is an aspect of the demarcation problem that occurs within both science and the humanities.\n\nGeologist Steven Dutch approached the demarcation problem by dividing scientific ideas into three categories: fringe, frontier, and center, based upon their adherence to scientific methodology and their level of acceptance. Later authors, including Richard Duschl, expanded these categories. Under Duschl's system, a fringe theory is a mix of legitimate new ideas and pseudoscience; it awaits analysis to determine whether it will pass into the \"frontier\" or be rejected entirely.\n\nThe majority of fringe theories never become part of established scholarship. Rejected ideas may help to refine mainstream thought, but most outside theories are simply incorrect and have no wider impact. Nevertheless, some ideas do gradually receive wider acceptance until they are no longer viewed as fringe theories. Occasionally such theories even become the mainstream view.\n\nA widely known example is Alfred Wegener's theory of continental drift, which eventually served as the basis for the accepted model of plate tectonics. Other ideas which have made the transition include the germ theory of disease, Birkeland's explanation of the aurora, prions, and complexity theory in project management. Behavioral finance was described in a 2002 journal article as \"at the fringe of ... modern financial theory\", but it has since been widely applied in many fields of business.\n\nSometimes this change is not gradual; in such cases it represents a paradigm shift. Writing for the \"New York Law Journal\", Andrew Bluestone described how a single court case in New York changed the use of an obscure common law statute regarding attorney misconduct from a \"fringe theory of law\" to an accepted, mainstream cause for legal action in the state.\n\nSimilarly, former mainstream theories such as phlogiston and luminiferous aether may be superseded and relegated to the fringe.\n\nSuch shifts between fringe theory and accepted theories are not always clear-cut. In 1963, Reuben Fine wrote that mainstream psychology had adopted aspects of Sigmund Freud's psychoanalysis but that many students of the discipline believed psychoanalysis to be a \"lunatic fringe theory which has little to do with scientific psychology\", and psychoanalysis is now generally considered discredited, according to author Frederick Crews who stated, \"if you consult psychology faculties in top American universities, you will find almost no one now who believes in the Freudian system of thought. As a research paradigm it’s pretty much dead.\"\n\nThe news media may play a role in the dissemination and popularization of fringe theories. The media sometimes reduce complex topics to two sides and frame issues in terms of an underdog challenger fighting the mainstream theory. Biblical scholar Matthew Collins wrote that this simplification can be \"both misrepresentative and misleading, especially when a far-fetched fringe theory is, in the name of neutrality and fairness, elevated to the role of equally legitimate contender.\" This false equivalence can become the expected media behavior. When \"The New York Times\" published an article strongly supporting the mainstream scientific stance on the thiomersal controversy, others in the media condemned the \"Times\" for portraying the alleged vaccine-autism connection as a fringe theory, calling the article a \"hit piece\".\n\nIssues of false balance also arise in education, especially in the context of the creation–evolution controversy. Creationism has been discredited as a fringe theory akin to Lamarckism or the cosmology of Immanuel Velikovsky's \"Worlds in Collision\". Because advocates of creationism want schools to present only their preferred alternative, not the entire variety of minority views, they have attempted to portray scholarship on the issue as being equally divided between only two models.\n\n"}
{"id": "34336090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34336090", "title": "GNU Solfege", "text": "GNU Solfege\n\nGNU Solfege is an ear training program written in Python intended to help musicians improve their skills and knowledge. It is free software and part of the GNU Project.\n\nGNU Solfege is available for Linux, Windows, and OS X.\n\n\nThis software was made in such way that it is possible for the user to customize the existing exercises or create new ones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27010869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27010869", "title": "Guiyang school", "text": "Guiyang school\n\nThe Guiyang school (, also read Weiyang School) is one of the sects of Chan Buddhism.\n\nThe Guiyang school was the first established house of the Five Houses of Chán. Guiyang is named after master Guishan Lingyou (771–854) and his disciple, Yangshan Huiji (813–890).\n\nGuishan was a disciple of Baizhang Huaihai, the Chan master whose disciples included Huangbo Xiyun, who in turn taught Linji Yixuan, founder of the Linji school. After founding the Guiyang School, Yangshan moved his school to what is now modern Jiangxi.\n\nThe Guiyang school is distinct from the other schools in many ways, notably in its use of esoteric metaphors and imagery in the school's kōans and other teachings. Hsuan Hua (April 16, 1918 – June 7, 1995) was the best-known modern representative of the Guiyang school.\n\nOver the course of Song Dynasty (960–1279), the Guiyang school, along with the Fayan and Yunmen schools were absorbed into the Linji school. Hsu Yun attempted to revive these absorbed lineages and succeeded in the case of the Guiyang school.\n"}
{"id": "3789217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3789217", "title": "Hans Rookmaaker", "text": "Hans Rookmaaker\n\nHenderik Roelof \"Hans\" Rookmaaker (February 27, 1922 – March 13, 1977) was a Dutch Christian scholar, professor, and author who wrote and lectured on art theory, art history, music, philosophy, and religion.\n\nIn 1948 he met Christian theologian Francis Schaeffer and became a member of L'Abri in Switzerland. Hans and his wife Anky opened a Dutch branch of L'Abri in 1971.\n\nFollowing a doctorate in art history with a dissertation on Gauguin at the University of Amsterdam, he became the founder of the art history department at the Free University in Amsterdam.\n\nRookmaaker combined his academic career with a prolific role of addressing ambiguity about art among Christians and ambiguity about faith among artists. His main thesis was laid out in his 1970 publication entitled \"Modern Art and The Death of a Culture\".\n\nThroughout his career, he lectured in the United Kingdom, the United States, and Canada, as well as in his native Netherlands.\n\nTwo books by Rookmaaker were published posthumously: \"Art Needs No Justification\" in 1978 and \"The Creative Gift : Essays on Art and the Christian Life\" in 1981. In 2003 \"The Complete Works of Hans Rookmaaker\", edited by his daughter Marleen Hengelaar-Rookmaaker, were published.\n\nBorn in The Hague, Netherlands Hans was the last born in a non-Christian family of colonizers with non-white blood, his grandmother having been half Indonesian. He was largely raised in Indonesia, but returned to Holland to join the Royal Netherlands Navy. Already as a teenager he had begun what would become an extensive collection of African-American music. As a junior officer, he began to study ship construction at Delft University prior to the start of World War II. There, prior to the war, Rookmaaker met and became engaged to Riki Spetter, who was Jewish.\n\nAs Rookmaaker was a naval officer, he was interned as a prisoner of war in Stanislau, now Ukraine and later on in Neubrandenburg in northern Germany. In Stanislau he met the Christian philosopher J.P.A. Mekkes who would have a lasting impact on his life. He returned home as a Christian, but was severely tested as his bride-to-be was nowhere to be found. His study of the Old Testament, dedicated to her during the camp years, never reached her. It has been established that Sophia Henriëtte Spetter died in Auschwitz on September 30, 1942. Rookmaaker changed his career and took up a doctoral study in art history. In 1948, through his fiancé and bride-to-be Anky Huitker, he met Francis Schaeffer. This was the beginning of a lifelong friendship with a very fruitful exchange of ideas. Rookmaaker had a dominant influence on Schaeffer's ideas on art and culture and also introduced Schaeffer to Reformational philosophy.\n\nRookmaaker's famous saying \"Jesus didn't come to make us Christian. Jesus came to make us fully human\" formed the central theme of Dick Staub's 2010 book \"About You\".\n\nRookmaaker stood in the tradition of Neo-Calvinism, developed in the late 19th century. The essential feature of this philosophy is the treatment of all of life as God's creation. There is no neutrality, while secularism is just another religion. Rookmaaker ventured to apply this basic viewpoint to culture. With his expert ear of black music, multi-cultural roots and after a profound change of direction, he devoted his PhD to the ideas of Paul Gauguin and how they influenced his paintings. He also was an art critic for the Dutch Christian newspaper Trouw. He edited a 12-part Fontana Records series of black music, wrote a book on this subject and developed a Christian approach to art in a book aiming at a wide audience. On the political level he wrote about art and culture for the magazine of the Reformed party. By the mid '60's he was invited to start the department of art history at the Free University. His broad international perspective brought a large number of foreign students to the department at a time when this was still far from usual.\n\nFrom 1955 onwards he frequently visited his friend Francis Schaeffer to lecture at the Swiss l’Abri community in Huémoz. He took Schaeffer on a tour to address Dutch audiences and started l'Abri meetings for university students in his Amsterdam home. He visited North America where he met his hero Mahalia Jackson. More and more Rookmaaker focused his career on motivating Christian believers to take culture seriously and live a life that integrates conviction and deeds. Traces of his influence are still to be found in many places, while the present awakening of Evangelicals to the arts proves Rookmaaker's prophetic stand. Rookmaaker died suddenly on a Sunday in March 1977.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "183221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183221", "title": "Ideology of Tintin", "text": "Ideology of Tintin\n\nHergé started drawing his comics series \"The Adventures of Tintin\" in 1929 for \"Le Petit Vingtième\", the children's section of the Belgian newspaper \"Le Vingtième Siècle\", run by the Abbé Norbert Wallez, an avid supporter of social Catholicism, a right-wing movement. During World War II, Tintin appeared in the Brussels daily pro-German \"Le Soir\"; after the war he appeared in his own \"Tintin\" magazine (founded by a member of the Resistance, Raymond Leblanc) until Hergé's death in 1983.\n\nAs a young artist Hergé was influenced by his mentors, specifically the Abbé Wallez, who encouraged Hergé to use Tintin as a tool for Catholic propaganda to influence Belgian children. This shows in his earlier works within the Tintin series. As a result, European stereotypes pervade Hergé's early catalogue. A breakthrough came in 1934, when the cartoonist was introduced to Zhang Chongren, a Chinese student, who explained Chinese politics, culture, language, art, and philosophy to him, which Hergé used to great effect in \"The Blue Lotus\". From this point onward, the artist developed ideologically, amidst the collapse of his country and the Second World War, and so did the series: the general trend of the postwar stories is to become more progressive and universalist.\n\nThe first Tintin book, \"Tintin in the Land of the Soviets\", was crafted on the orders of Hergé's superiors, to be anti-Soviet propaganda of limited outlook. Nonetheless, Hergé worked willingly: \"I was sincerely convinced of being on the right path\", he said later. His only source was \"Moscou sans voiles\" (\"Moscow without veils\"), a book written in 1928 by Joseph Douillet, former consul of Belgium in the USSR. In this book, appearing not much more than a decade after the October Revolution, Douillet denounced the communist system for producing poverty, famine, and terror. The secret police maintained order and the propaganda deceived foreigners. Nonetheless, the anti-totalitarian theme of this first book would persist throughout the series.\n\nHergé wanted the second book to take place in the United States, which fascinated him. Wallez disagreed: he distrusted the USA, the country of Protestantism, liberalism, of easy money, and of gangsters. Instead, he asked Hergé to draw a book about the Belgian Congo: the colony needed white workers at the time.\n\n\"Tintin in the Congo\" reflected the dominant colonialist ideology at that time. As put by Hergé in a later interview, \"This was in 1930. All I knew about the Congo was what people were saying about it at the time: 'The Negroes are big children, it's fortunate for them that we're there, etc'\".\n\nThe paternalistic description of the indigenous people of Belgian Congo was more naive than racist, and Hergé developed an important theme of Tintin in this book: international trafficking.\n\nWith his next book, Hergé could finally send Tintin to the United States. \"Tintin in America\" (1932) represents a significant change in tone. The story was, like the previous ones, very caricatured, because of Hergé's limited knowledge of the country: America was the land of Al Capone, cowboys and gigantism. But Hergé also took the defense of the Native Americans (whom he called \"Red Indians\"), African Americans and blue-collar workers. He criticized lynching, the theft of Native American land, and American business rapacity.\n\nEven more striking is the fifth book, \"The Blue Lotus\" (1934–35), set in China. For this story Hergé was put in touch with Zhang Chongren, a Chinese student then studying in Brussels, whose name may have been the basis for the name of character Chang Chong-Chen. Hergé was very concerned with portraying the country accurately, and the adventure can be read as anti-imperialist. It criticizes Japanese and Western involvement in China, including the international concessions and the Japanese invasion of Manchuria, and shows with great disapproval Westerners making racist or ignorant remarks about the Chinese. The Japanese themselves are portrayed with little sympathy; most of those shown are soldiers or government agents involved in the invasion of Manchuria.\n\n\"The Broken Ear\" (1935–36) is set mainly in the fictional South American republic of San Theodoros and takes a critical view of western businessmen conspiring to provoke a war over what they think will be profitable oil fields. They go about this using bribery, corruption, and the sale of arms to both sides. It then simply requires a border confrontation to be blown out of proportion in order to begin the conflict, much like the Mukden Incident shown in \"The Blue Lotus\". The war over the Grand Chapo oil plains was based on the Chaco War of the early 1930s. It also depicted the Shuar indigenous people, famous for their \"tsantsas\" (\"shrunken heads\").\n\nAt first glance, \"The Black Island\" (1937–38) is a simple thriller with Tintin in pursuit of money forgers, with the chase to Scotland giving it a feel of Alfred Hitchcock's movie version of \"The Thirty-Nine Steps\". Dr. Müller is a German villain and can be read as a clear parody of the Germans at the time.\n\nSeveral stories were influenced by the menace of a second world war, and then by the war itself and the Nazi occupation of Belgium.\n\nDespite the fact that Hergé was in favor of the neutrality of Belgium, \"King Ottokar's Sceptre\" (1938–39) could be read as anti-Nazi: Müsstler (a possible contraction of \"Mussolini\" and \"Hitler\") is the leader of a conspiracy that seeks to merge the kingdom of Syldavia with its old enemy Borduria. The story could have been influenced by the Anschluss in Austria in 1938. Müsstler is the head of the Steel Guard, a name implying a pro-fascist paramilitary group which were common in Europe between the wars. An actual fascist and anti-Semitic group called the Iron Guard was very active in Romania in the years leading up to the Second World War. The Romanian Iron Guard was often in violent conflict with the King of Romania, King Carol II, who they accused of corruption and being influenced by his Jewish mistress. The leader of the Iron Guard, Codreanu, was executed shortly thereafter for treason by the Romanian government. The Iron Guard briefly formed the government in 1940 under Horia Sima after the King's abdication but Hitler ended up backing the more conservative General Antonescu in January 1941 and the Iron Guard was eliminated from government and purged. Thus, in the foreign policy of the Third Reich the Romanian monarchy and other authoritarian figures were supported over the local fascist party.\n\nThe early and unfinished version of \"Land of Black Gold\" (1939–40) alluded to the mobilization of Nazi war power. This unfinished adventure is set in the British Mandate of Palestine with British soldiers and officials. The beginning of the war and the defeat of Belgium prevented Hergé from finishing this version, though it did come out in 1950. He later rewrote it, setting the action in the fictional Arab Kingdom of Khemed and replacing the conflict between Arabs and Jews by a civil conflict between two Arab factions.\n\nDuring the war, Hergé worked for \"Le Soir\", a newspaper which collaborated with the German occupiers. To avoid controversy during the Nazi occupation of Belgium, Tintin's adventures now focused mainly on non-political issues such as drug smuggling (\"The Crab with the Golden Claws\"), intrigue and treasure hunts (\"The Secret of the Unicorn\" and \"Red Rackham's Treasure\"), and a mysterious curse (\"The Seven Crystal Balls\").\n\nSomewhat controversial though, was \"The Shooting Star\", which was about a race between two crews trying to reach a meteorite which had landed in the Arctic. Hergé chose the subject to be as fantastic as possible, to avoid trouble from the censors. Nonetheless politics intruded in that the crew Tintin joined was composed of Europeans from Axis or neutral countries, while their underhanded rivals were Americans. Tintin also flies in a German plane in the book (an Arado Ar 196).\n\nMost damaging of all for Hergé was that these stories were published in \"Le Soir\", a collaborationist newspaper. After the war he and other members of its staff faced lengthy investigations into their wartime allegiances. Hergé expressed his regrets in a 1973 interview: \"I recognise that I myself believed that the future of the West could depend on the New Order. For many, democracy had proved a disappointment, and the New Order brought new hope. In light of everything which has happened, it is of course a huge error to have believed for an instant in the New Order\".\n\nThe post-war stories are less controversial, developing several recurring themes:\n\n\nIn the first edition of \"The Red Sea Sharks\", the black victims speak pidgin French and seem rather simple-minded. Hergé rewrote their dialogue in later editions.\n\nThe last controversial album is \"Tintin and the Picaros\", which has been seen both as left-wing and right-wing. In it, Tintin goes through profound changes. For the first time, Tintin seems to be flesh and blood, and perhaps even has weaknesses; for instance, he is at first uncharacteristically unwilling to travel to San Theodoros, where his friends have been falsely accused of espionage. At the end he intervenes dramatically through revolution. But as Benoît Peeters puts it, \"it is quite clear that this is no real revolution but a palace coup. Tapioca is backed by Borduria, Alcazar by the International Banana Company; as for ordinary people, they remain impoverished in the shantytowns.\"\n\nHergé has also been accused of sexism, due to the almost complete lack of female characters in his books. The only woman character of importance is Bianca Castafiore, who is portrayed to be foolish and nearly oblivious to all negative reactions to her behaviour—though she does show loyalty, presence of mind and quick wit when hiding Tintin and Haddock from Colonel Sponsz in \"The Calculus Affair\".\n\nHergé himself denied being a misogynist, saying that \"for me, women have nothing to do in a world like Tintin's, which is the realm of male friendship\".\n\nOther reasons were because he believed that sentimentality had little to do in Tintin's stories, which are mainly about men getting into all sorts of \"misadventures rather than adventures\", and wherein \"mocking women would not be nice\". He also felt that a man slipping on a banana skin, providing he does not break a leg, is much funnier than if it happened to a woman. As a female interviewer put it, \"It has nothing to do with the misogynist world of the Boy Scout,\" referring to the fact that Hergé was a Scout in his youth.\n\nSome aspects of Tintin's adventures have resulted in accusations of antisemitism being levelled at Hergé, accusations that are often connected to his work during World War II for \"Le Soir\", a newspaper that collaborated with the Nazis during the German occupation of Belgium.\n\nAs the war began, the first version of \"Land of Black Gold\" (1939–40) was being published. This version was set in the British Mandate of Palestine and featured Jewish Zionist terrorists led by a Rabbi. The story was suspended due to its political nature, but completed after the war.\n\nThe most serious instance of alleged antisemitism, however, featured in \"The Shooting Star\" (1941), which appeared during the German occupation. In a scene that appeared in \"Le Soir\" on 11 November 1941, two evil-looking Jewish men, Isaac and Salomon, watch Philippulus the prophet inform Tintin that the end of the world is nigh. One of them, speaking in very twisted French, looks forward to this as it means that he will not be obliged to pay off his creditors. In addition, the sponsor of the rival expedition sent to find the meteorite is called Blumenstein, is given the appearance of a stereotypical Jewish businessman, and uses underhand and potentially lethal methods to delay Tintin's ship. His bank is located in New York and his crew attempts to plant the American flag on the meteorite.\n\nAfter the war and the exposure of the Holocaust, Jewish people became noticeably absent from Tintin's adventures. \"Land of Black Gold\" was redrawn at the request of Hergé's British publishers who felt that it was out-of-date now that the state of Israel had been established. The Irgun members in the British Mandate were replaced with a domestic insurgency in a fictional Arab emirate. The scene with Isaac and Salomon was left out of the book editions of \"The Shooting Star\", while \"Blumenstein\" was renamed \"Bohlwinkel\" and relocated to the fictional country of São Rico. According to Hergé, both the original and the later name were honest mistakes: he thought Blumenstein was a common American name, and chose Bohlwinkel because it sounded like \"bollewinkel\", a candy store.\n\nHugo Frey has argued that anti-Semitism continued in the post-war \"Flight 714 to Sydney\". Tintin's old nemesis and the mastermind of the plot in the book is the evil Rastapopoulos, who Frey argues is an example of anti-Semitic caricature, though other writers argue against this, pointing out that Rastapopoulos is not Jewish (his surname make him likely of Greek ethnicity), and surrounds himself with explicitly German-looking characters: Kurt, the submarine commander of \"The Red Sea Sharks\", Dr. Krollspell, whom Hergé himself referred to as a former concentration camp official, and Hans Boehm, the sinister-looking navigator and co-pilot, both from \"Flight 714 to Sydney\".\n\nIn other works, Hergé showed much sympathy for oppressed peoples, such as the Chinese in \"The Blue Lotus\", the black African Muslims about to be traded as slaves in \"The Red Sea Sharks\", and the Gypsies of \"The Castafiore Emerald\" falsely accused of theft.\n\nMuch of Hergé's criticism was directed at big businesses and the ways they would affect the lives of ethnic minorities and the affairs of nations just for the sake of money. He also accused them of using unethical methods and being a cover for criminal activities.\n\nThese attacks started as early as \"Tintin in America\" following the discovery of oil on land occupied by Blackfoot Natives. Tintin is then surrounded by businessmen offering him up to tens of thousands of dollars for the rights to the oil. When Tintin announces that it belongs to the Blackfoot, the chief of the tribe is, in comparison, given a mere $25 and half-an-hour to vacate the premises. An hour later the Blackfoot Natives are forced away by soldiers armed with rifles and bayonets; by the next day a whole city has been built on the site. A factory that Tintin later visits produces tinned \"rabbit\" meat out of stray cats, dogs, and rats.\n\nOil also came into play in \"The Broken Ear\". Western businesses General American Oil and British-South American Petrol get the states of San Theodoros and Nuevo Rico to go to war over territory which turns out not to have oil after all. This part of the story was inspired by the real-life Chaco War of 1932–35. One of the businessmen, R.W. Trickler, uses bribery, corruption, and false evidence in order to get his way. Arms dealer Basil Bazarov, who sells weapons to both sides, is based on the real-life Basil Zaharoff.\n\nA similar situation occurred in \"Land of Black Gold\", in which two rival oil companies, Arabex and Skoil Petroleum, separately support Emir Mohammed Ben Kalish Ezab and Sheikh Bab El Ehr respectively.\n\nBig business was also shown as a cover for illegal activities: Rastapopoulos for example is a respected businessman who mixes with people in high places, but is also the leader of major smuggling operations: opium in \"The Blue Lotus\" and slaves in \"The Red Sea Sharks\". The villain in \"The Blue Lotus\" is Mitsuhirato, a Japanese man who owns a fashion shop and an opium den (in a time and place where such dens were legal and considered legitimate), which cover his activities as a drug smuggler and secret agent of Japan, and who organizes the sabotage of a Chinese railway (based on the real-life Mukden Incident). Rastapopoulos and Mitsuhirato have an Arabic counterpart in Omar ben Salaad of \"The Crab with the Golden Claws\".\n\nThe sponsor of the rival expedition in \"The Shooting Star\", Mr. Bohlwinkel, is the head of a major banking organisation who uses unethical methods to delay the progress of Tintin and Haddock's ship. These include sabotage with dynamite and fake distress messages. Controversially, in his original version, Hergé gave the man a Jewish-sounding name and had him based in New York. These were changed in later editions.\n\nFollowing the war, Hergé's attacks on big business was suspended as he focused more on espionage (the Moon adventures and \"The Calculus Affair\"); but it returned with a vengeance in \"The Red Sea Sharks\". In this story Rastapopoulos becomes the Marquis di Gorgonzola, a media baron, airline owner, and arms dealer, who entertains influential people on board his luxury yacht. This serves as the cover of his business as a slave trader. When Emir Ben Kalish Ezab threatens to expose this for personal reasons, Rastapopoulos engineers his overthrow in favour of the Emir's enemy, Sheikh Bab El Ehr.\n\nTintin has a knack of meeting businessmen who appear friendly at first, but turn out to be far from ethical and can also be villains. Rastapopoulos and Mitsuhirato are two such examples; but there is also Laszlo Carreidas of \"Flight 714 to Sydney\". At first shown as a friendly if eccentric person, Carreidas was revealed to be a cunning individual with a long history of unscrupulous behaviour not limited to the business world. A large part of his personal fortune was in a Swiss bank account under a false name and signature, presumably for taxation-related purposes, while he confesses under truth serum to a long history of unscrupulous activities.\n\nHergé's attack on big business and its interference in national politics went all the way to the final completed story, \"Tintin and the Picaros\". In this adventure, guerrilla leader General Alcazar had the support of the International Banana Company, a reference to Banana republics and companies like the United Fruit Company (today Chiquita). Hergé's notes also reveal that Alcazar's wife was on the board of a company that kept him supplied with arms; a fact that may explain his marriage. To counter the rebels, Alcazar's enemy Tapioca struck a deal with Loch Lomond whisky and parachuted large amounts of their brand into the jungle, making the rebels too drunk to stage a coup. Loch Lomond also sponsored the local carnival.\n\n"}
{"id": "2538145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2538145", "title": "Inoue Tetsujirō", "text": "Inoue Tetsujirō\n\nHe was also a member of the International Education Movement. He wrote a commentary on Japan's Imperial Rescript on Education, wherein he encouraged the Japanese people to support the state and imperialism. Inoue's support of imperialism established him as opposed to the ideas of other proponents of International Education, such as Shimonaka Yasaburo, Noguchi Entaro, and Izumi Tetsu.\n\nInoue was the most prolific and prominent promoter of bushido ideology in Japan before 1945, authoring dozens of works and giving hundreds of lectures on the subject over almost half a century.\n\nAfter graduating from Tokyo Imperial University he composed Chinese poems, one of which inspired the composition of the poem \"White Aster\" by Ochiai Naobumi.\n\nhttp://utcp.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp/publications/pdf/UTCPBooklet14_04_Dufourmont.pdf\n\nLes Sectes bouddhiques japonaises, E.Steinilber-Oberlin, K. Matsuo, Paris 1930, pp. 293/4\n"}
{"id": "3623539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3623539", "title": "Internet research ethics", "text": "Internet research ethics\n\nInternet research ethics involves the research ethics of social science, humanities, and scientific research carried out via the Internet.\n\nOf particular interest is the example of English Wikipedia and research ethics. The usual view is that private and public spaces become blurred on the Internet. There are a number of objections to this stance, which are all relevant to English Wikipedia research. In particular, it can be difficult for researchers to ensure participant anonymity. One study of 112 published educational technology research papers was able to identify participant identities in 10 of those papers; the majority of these studies had gathered this data under conditions of anonymity.\n\nAn assessment of ethics in Internet-based research, together with some recommendations, has been prepared by a Working Committee of the Interagency Advisory Panel on Research Ethics(PRE)in Canada. PRE is a body of external experts established in November 2001 by three Canadian Research Agencies—the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC) -- to support the development and evolution of their joint research ethics policy the Tri-Council Policy Statement: Ethical Conduct for Research Involving Humans (TCPS).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18524052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18524052", "title": "Intisar-ul-Haque", "text": "Intisar-ul-Haque\n\nDr. Intisar-Ul-Haque (20 October 1935 - 4 August 1996) M.A. (Punjab), Honours (London University), Ph. D. (Edinburgh), is a Pakistani philosopher.\nHe is retired Professor, and was Chairman of the Department of Philosophy, at University of Peshawar.\nHe is holder of Post-doctoral Alexander von Humboldt Senior Fellowship, Germany 1974–76, and Senior Fulbright Fellowship 1984-85. \nHe was the first student from Pakistan to do his Ph.D in Analytical Philosophy and Logic from Edinburgh in 1966. \n\nDr. Intisar-Ul-Haq served as the Chairman and Professor at the Philosophy department of the University of Peshawar. He served the University for over 3 decades. He remained very active in research on analytical philosophy. He was a fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation of Germany.\n\nDr. Intisar-Ul-Haque was born in October 1935. He got his Master's degree from Lahore and did his B.A honours from University of London in 1961. He later went to the University of Edinburgh where he completed his Ph.D in Analytical Philosophy. He joined Peshawar University and continued to teach there till his death.\n\nDr. Intisar-ul-Haque, former head of the department of Peshawar University, wrote several books and articles on Philosophy and Logic. His books \"Philosophy of Religion\" and \"Logical paradoxes\" attracted international reviews. His writings on technical topics as logical paradoxes, theory of perception and philosophy of logic are still used in Postgraduate level in the country. He also has 40 articles published in international journals of repute to his credit. Dr. Intisar was the member of the curriculum committee of the UGC where he influenced the development of curricula in area of logic and philosophy. He was responsible for establishing teaching of analytical philosophy and logic in the country through Pakistan Philosophical Congress of which he was the serving Vice President at the time of his death. \n\nDr. Intisar-ul-Haque represented Pakistan at an international conference in Thailand of UNESCO. He remained affiliated with the University of Massachusetts as a senior Fulbright Fellow. He was chosen as the Alexander Humboldt Fellow of the prestigious Humboldt Foundation of Germany. He also had the privilege of working with some of the famous 20th century philosophers such as A.J Eyer and PF Strawson. He remained in contact with American logician Irving M. Copi for guidance. \nDr. Intisar's prime areas of interest included Logic, Philosophy of Logic and Analytical Philosophy.\n\nDr.Intisar-ul-Haque had command over English, Arabic, German and Persian languages. He was compiling an English-Arabic-German dictionary which he had completed up to the alphabet 'M' at the time of his death. \n"}
{"id": "3157572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3157572", "title": "Ishq", "text": "Ishq\n\nIshq (, \"‘išq\") is an Arabic word meaning \"love\" or \"passion\", also widely used in other languages of the Muslim world. \n\nThe word \"ishq\" does not appear in the Quran, which instead uses derivatives of the verbal root ' (), such as the noun ' (). The word is traditionally derived from the verbal root ' \"to stick, to cleave to\" and connected to the noun ', which denotes a kind of ivy. In its most common classical interpretation, \"ishq\" refers to the irresistible desire to obtain possession of the beloved (\"ma‘shuq\"), expressing a deficiency that the lover (\"‘āshiq\") must remedy in order to reach perfection (\"kamāl\"). Like the perfections of the soul and the body, love thus admits of hierarchical degrees, but its underlying reality is the aspiration to the beauty (\"al-husn\") which God manifested in the world when he created Adam in his own image. Islamic conception of love acquired further dimensions from the Greek-influenced view that the notions of Beauty, Good, and Truth (\"al-haqq\") \"go back to one indissoluble Unity (\"wahda\")\". \n\nAmong classical Muslim authors, the notion of love was developed along three conceptual lines, conceived in an accending hierarchical order: natural love, intellectual love and divine love. The growth of affection (\"mawadda\") into passionate love (\"ishq\") received its most probing and realistic analysis in \"The Ring of the Dove\" by the Andalusian scholar Ibn Hazm. The term \"ishq\" is used extensively in Sufi poetry and literature to describe their selfless and 'burning love for Allah'. It is the core concept in the doctrine of Islamic mysticism as it is the key to the connection between man and God. Ishq itself is held to have been the basis of 'creation'.\n\nTraditional Persian lexicographers considered the Persian ' and Arabic ' () to derive from the Arabic verbal root ' () \"to stick, to cleave to\". They connected the origin of the root to ' (), a kind of ivy, because it twines around and cleaves to trees (Zamaxšari, Tâj al-'arus).\n\nHeydari-Malayeri suggests that (') may have an Indo-European origin and may be related to Avestan words such as ' \"to wish, desire, search\", and ultimately derive from *iška. The Avestan ' also exists in Middle Persian in the form of ' \"desire\".\n\nIn the most languages such as Dari: \"eshq\"; in ; in Somali: ' or '; in and in , in modern Persian as ' or ' , it literally means \"love\".\n\nSome scholars objected to the use of the term 'ishq' due to its association with sensual love but despite the linguistic, cultural or technical meanings, Sufis believe that 'ishq' can only be associated to the Divine.\n\nThe word ishq referred to traditional ghazals and Indo-Persian literary culture and has made its way to many other languages which were influenced by Sufism. Some of the most notable languages which have this word are Persian, Urdu, Pashto, Arabic, Sindhi, Saraiki: عشق, , , and .\n\nIn Persian, Ishq construed with the verbs \"bākhtan باختن\", \"khāstan خواستن\", \"sanjīdan سنجیدن\", \"rūīdan روییدن\", \"nishīndan نشاندن\", etc. In Persian, \"Āshiq عاشق\" is the active participle (lover), \"Mā'shūq معشوق\" is the passive participle (beloved), and \"Mā'shūqah معشوقه\" conveys a vulgar meaning, whilst in Arabic it is the female passive participle of \"Mā'shūq معشوق\".\n\nIn Urdu, \"Ishq\" (عشق) is used to refer to \"fervent love\" for any object, person or God. However, it is mostly used in its religious context. In Urdu, three very common religious terminologies have been derived from \"Ishq\". These terminologies are \"Ishq-e-Haqīqi\" (love of Truth), \"Ishq-e majāzi\" (love of God's creation i.e. a human), and \"ishq-e rasūl\" / \"ishq-e Muhammadi\" (love of the Messenger / love of Muhammad). Other than these, in non-religious context, \"‘ishq\" is a synonym for obsessive love.\n\nIn Turkish, \"Aşk\" is commonly used to express love, passion or adoration. The Turkish version replaces the 'q' with a 'k', as Turkish lacks voiceless uvular plosive, and the letter 'ş' with the cedilla denotes the \"sh\" sound, . In comparison with Arabic or Urdu, (like Persian) the word is less restrictive and can be applied to many forms of love, or simply romance. It is common in the lyrics of Turkish songs.\n\nIshq is also sometimes used in Hindi language movies which often borrow more formal, flowery and poetic words and language heavily from Urdu and Persian. The regular Hindi word for love is \"pyar\". In Bollywood \"\" (इश्क़) means \"lustless love\". In Arabic, it is a noun. However, in Urdu it is used as both verb and noun.\n\nIn Modern Arabic the usual terms used for romantic love are ' and its derived forms ', etc.\n\nIn religious context, Ishq, divided into three kinds, is a very important but rather complex concept of Sufi tradition of Islam.\n\n\"Ishq-e Majāzi\" () literally means \"metaphorical love\". It refers to the love for God's creation i.e. love of a man for a woman or another man and vice versa. It is said to be generated by beloved person's external beauty but since it is connected to lust, it is against the law and considered unlawful. Hence, in Faqr, the term Ishq-e-Majazi is directed only towards Ishq-e-Murshid. This love for one's Murshid eventually leads to love for Muhammad and eventually for God, upon which one that understands Ishq-e-Haqeeqi is in fact the source of all 'metaphorical love'.\n\n\"Ishq-e Rasūl\" () means \"love of Muhammad,\" an important part of being a Muslim. In Sufism, however, the Ishq-e-Majazi changes its form to Ishq-e-Rasool and the intense feeling of Ihsq is developed for Muhammad. Everything form of creation which exists is in fact the slave of the Creator. Since Muhammad is the most beloved to Allah, the true Lover feels Ishq-e-Rasool till \"the Prophet becomes dearer to him than his life, wives, children, house, business and everything else\". (Sahih Bukhari and Muslim)\nSufis firmly believe that the souls of the entire creation were created from the soul of Muhammad. Hence, the purified soul of the Lover craves to return to him. This is experienced at the level where the Lover witness the reflection of all the attributes of God within Muhammad.\n\n\"Ishq-e Haqīqi\" () literally means \"\"the real love\" i.e. \"the love of God\".\" It refers to the belief that only God is worth loving and He is the only one who can return His creature's love for Him.\nThe inner subtlety whose locus is the heart is only felt by the true seeker of God otherwise there is no difference between a beast and a man because even a beast has five senses whereas the sixth i.e. the inner sight is only additional to the human.\n\n\"And those who truly believe, love Allah intensely.\" (Al-Bakra 165)\n\n"}
{"id": "750095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=750095", "title": "Jacob Friedrich von Abel", "text": "Jacob Friedrich von Abel\n\nJacob Friedrich von Abel (9 May 1751 – 7 July 1829) was a German philosopher. His main interest was the human soul and in trying to find a proof for its immortality.\n\nBorn in Vaihingen an der Enz, von Abel studied philology, philosophy and theology in the lower seminaries in Denkendorf and Maulbronn and in the higher seminary in Tübingen. He graduated in 1770 and was appointed professor of philosophy at the \"Militär-Pflanzschule\" at the Solitude Palace which moved later to Stuttgart. While there, he was one of Schiller's teachers and a good friend (becoming the dedicatee of his second play, \"Fiesco\").\n\nIn 1790 he was appointed professor of philosophy and headmaster of the \"Contubernium\" in Tübingen, in 1792 pedagogue of the Latin \"Schulen ob der Staig\". Notably during this period, he adopted renowned German idealist Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel as his protege, according to Hegel's sister. It is also known that Abel's short book in defence of traditional rational metaphysics against Kant's arguments, was one of the first pieces of literature on Kantianism which Hegel was exposed to. In 1811 Abel became prelate, general superintendent in Oehringen and member of the executive authority of the Evangelic Church in Württemberg. In 1823 von Abel became general superintendent in Urach and Reutlingen, and lived in Stuttgart. He died on a leisure excursion in Schorndorf.\n\nJacob Friedrich von Abel was also a member of the Illuminatenorden, known as \"Pythagoras Abderites\".\n\n\nThe latter contains in its second volume a story on which Schiller's \"Verbrecher aus Infamie, eine wahre Geschichte\" is based.\n\n"}
{"id": "29653503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29653503", "title": "Jean Jolivet", "text": "Jean Jolivet\n\nJean Jolivet (9 January 1925 – 8 March 2018) was a French philosopher and medievalist.\n\nJolivet was an authority on Medieval philosophy and honorary director of studies at the École Pratique des Hautes Études in Paris. He is co-director of the publication series \"Études de philosophie médiévale\" (founded by Étienne Gilson) for the Vrin Library of philosophy. Jolivet has been an influential mentor for, and collaborator with, Constant Mews, particularly in relation to Peter Abelard.\n\nAmongst Jolivet's publications are:\n"}
{"id": "995418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=995418", "title": "Judicial interference", "text": "Judicial interference\n\nJudicial interference is the actions of courts or judicial officers in matters that are interpreted by some as beyond their constitutionally established role. \n"}
{"id": "764621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=764621", "title": "Konstantin Pobedonostsev", "text": "Konstantin Pobedonostsev\n\nKonstantin Petrovich Pobedonostsev (; May 21, 1827, Moscow – March 23, 1907, Saint Petersburg) was a Russian jurist, statesman, and adviser to three Tsars. He was the chief spokesman for reactionary positions. He was the \"éminence grise\" of imperial politics during the reign of Alexander III of Russia, holding the position of the Ober-Procurator of the Most Holy Synod, the non-clerical official who supervised the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nHis writings on politics, law, art, and culture emphasized the positive element of the spiritual and secular unification of Russia with the acceptance of Christianity. He warned of the negative element in Russia, portraying democratic and liberal movements as enemies of the national and religious unity of Russian people. Achieving a harmonious society, said Pobedonostsev, meant there was a collective responsibility to uphold political and religious unity, hence close supervision of Russian behaviour and thinking was a necessity.\n\nPobedonostsev's father, Pyotr Vasilyevich Pobedonostsev, was a Professor of literature at Moscow State University. In 1841 he placed his son, then aged 14, in the St. Petersburg School of Jurisprudence, which had been established to prepare young men for civil service. After graduation Konstantin Pobedonostsev entered the public service as an official in the eighth Moscow department of the Senate. The task of the department was to resolve civil cases from guberniyas surrounding Moscow. He was promoted rapidly within the eighth department.\n\nFrom 1860 to 1865 he was Professor of civil law at Moscow State University. In 1861 Tsar Alexander II invited him to instruct his son and heir, Nicholas, in the theory of law and administration. In 1865 young Nicholas died, and Pobedonostsev was invited to teach Nicholas's brother Alexander (the future Tsar Alexander III). In 1866 Pobedonostsev moved to a permanent residence in St. Petersburg. Pobedonostsev and Tsarevich Alexander remained very close for almost thirty years, through Alexander's ascension as Tsar in 1881 and until his death in 1894.\n\nHe became a member of the Council of the Empire, and in 1880 – chief procurator of the Holy Synod. In the latter office Pobedonostsev was operating head of the Russian Orthodox Church. During the reign of Alexander III he was one of the most influential men in the empire. He was the mastermind of Alexander's Manifesto of April 29, 1881. The Manifesto on Unshakeable Autocracy proclaimed that the absolute power of the Tsar was unshakable thus putting an end to Loris-Melikov's endeavours to establish a representative body in the empire.\n\nActually, Pobedonostsev's ascension in the first days after the assassination of Alexander II resulted in the subsequent resignation of Loris-Melikov and other ministers eager for liberal reforms. He always was an uncompromising conservative and never shrank from boldly expressing his staunch opinions. Consequently, in liberal circles he was always denounced as an obscurantist, pedant, and an enemy of progress.\n\nAfter the death of Alexander III, he lost much of his influence. Tsar Nicholas II adhered to his father's Russification policy and even extending it to Finland, but he generally disliked the idea of systematic religious persecution, and was not wholly averse to the partial emancipation of the Church from civil control.\n\nHe ordered Tolstoy's excommunication in 1901.\n\nDuring the revolutionary tumult which followed the disastrous war with Japan, Pobedonostsev, being nearly 80 years of age, retired from public affairs. He died on March 23, 1907.\n\nHe was fictionalized as old senator Ableukhov in Andrey Bely's novel \"Petersburg\" (1912). Arguably he was also depicted in Leo Tolstoy's \"Anna Karenina\" as Alexei Alexandrovich Karenin.\n\nThough Pobedonostsev is mostly known as a statesman and thinker, his contribution to Russian civil law is significant. He is generally regarded as one of the most educated European jurists of the 19th century. His main work was the three-volume \"Course of Civil Law\" (Курс гражданского права) published in 1868, 1871 and 1880, respectively.\n\nBefore the 1905 \"The First Revolution\" the Course was reprinted several times with minor changes. The Course was regarded as outstanding guide for practising lawyers. Quotations from the Course are reported to have been used as a ground for decisions of the Civil Board of the Senate. The author's profound knowledge of Russian civil law resulted in description of many previously insufficiently explored institutions such as communal land law.\n\nIn addition, Pobedonostsev published in 1865 in \"Moskovskie Vedomosti\" several anonymous articles on the judicial reform of Alexander II.\n\nPobedonostsev held the view that human nature is sinful, rejecting the ideals of freedom and independence as dangerous delusions of nihilistic youth.\n\nIn his \"Reflections of a Russian Statesman\" (1896), he promoted autocracy and condemned elections, representation and democracy, the jury system, the press, free education, charities, and social reforms. He despised representative government, and denounced the notion of an all-Russian Parliament. He also condemned Social Darwinism as an erroneous generalisation of Darwin's Theory of Evolution.\n\nIn the early years of the reign of Alexander II, Pobedonostsev maintained, though keeping aloof from the Slavophiles, that Western institutions were radically bad in themselves and totally inapplicable to Russia since they had no roots in Russian history and culture and did not correspond to the spirit of Russian people. In that period, he contributed several papers to Alexander Herzen's radical periodical \"Voices from Russia\".\n\nHe denounced democracy as \"the insupportable dictatorship of vulgar crowd\". He argued that parliaments, trial by jury, freedom of the press, and secular education were undesirable alien nostrums. He subjected all of them to a severe analysis in his \"Reflections of a Russian Statesman\". He once stated that Russia should be \"frozen in time\", showing his undivided commitment to autocracy.\n\nTo these dangerous products of Western thought he found a counterpoise in popular \"vis inertiae\", and in the respect of the masses for institutions developed slowly and automatically during the past centuries of national life. In his view, human society evolves naturally, just like a tree grows. Human mind is not able to perceive the logic of social development. Any attempt to reform society is a violence and a crime. Among the practical deductions drawn from these premises is the necessity of preserving autocratic power, and of fostering among the people the traditional veneration for the ritual of the national Church.\n\nIn the sphere of practical politics Pobedonostsev exercised considerable influence in the Russification policy of Alexander III. This found expression in nationalist propaganda.\n\nPobedonostsev particularly advised the anti-Jewish measures taken during Alexander III's administration. These began with the temporary \"May Laws\" that banned Jews from rural areas and shtetls even within the Pale of Settlement. The May Laws did not lapse; further policies led to deportations of Jews from large cities, enrollment quotas in public education, and a proscription against voting in local elections.\n\nHis anti-Jewish measures, at least, may have stemmed from a personal motive. British author Arnold White, interested in Jewish agricultural colonisation in Argentina, visited Pobedonostsev with credentials from Baron de Hirsch; Pobedonostsev said to him: \"The characteristics of the Jewish race are parasitic; for their sustenance they require the presence of another race as \"host\" although they remain aloof and self-contained. Take them from the living organism, put them on a rock, and they die. They cannot cultivate the soil.\" He was also by 1894 credited (dubiously) with \"a third of Jews will be converted, a third will emigrate, and the rest will die of hunger.\" (Russian: \"Одна треть вымрет, одна выселится, одна треть бесследно растворится в окружающем населении\")\n\nPobedonostsev was not always a reactionary. He had originally welcomed the Great Reforms that Tsar Alexander II undertook in the 1860s-1870s. However, he soon became alarmed by the weakening of the rural estates and the tsarist bureaucracy. He decided that a deeper spiritual unity of the tsar and his people was needed to restore stability to Russia. When Alexander III ascended the throne in 1881, Pobedonostsev rapidly gained a powerful influence over the affairs of both church and state. To establish order he suppressed all reform efforts. The reforms of the 1860s had legalized the role of Protestant and other non-Orthodox religions. Pobedonostsev said Russia needed an Orthodox monopoly. However, he failed to win over the civil authorities, the judicial authorities, and the religious department in his struggle against the non-Orthodox. As a result, his policies, which were intended to unify, actually engendered dissension and violence and in the long run contributed to the collapse of the Russian Empire.\n\nPobedonostsev did develop a social program for the Church while limiting its autonomy. He imposed repressive measures against the non-Orthodox. He carried out major Church reforms, but they resulted in a church that by 1900 was enmeshed in bureaucracy, alienated in many ways from society, resentful of secular authorities, and divided internally. Stagnation in church and state policies prevailed until Pobedonostsev retired in 1905. In the long run, argues Polunov, Pobedonostsev's attempts to impose safe conservative barriers to reform and his hostility toward innovation served only to weaken the autocratic state from within.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28868294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28868294", "title": "Lars Svenonius", "text": "Lars Svenonius\n\nLars Svenonius (1927, Skellefteå – September 27, 2010, Silver Spring, Maryland) was a Swedish logician and philosopher. \n\nHe was a visiting professor at University of California at Berkeley in 1962-63, then held a position at the University of Chicago from 1963–69, and was professor of philosophy at the University of Maryland from 1969 to 2009. He retired in 2009, but was awarded the position of Emeritus Professor, and continued to teach courses and advise students until his death at 83 years of age.\n\nHe was the first Swedish logician to work on model theory with his dissertation \"Some problems in Model Theory\" (for which the University of Uppsala awarded him a doctorate in 1960). His early work was in formal logic, and he established a reputation for brilliance early in his career with a series of proofs, including an independent proof of equivalent characterizations of omega-categorical theories. A 1959 paper of his in \"Theoria\" establishes what is still referred to as the 'Svenonius theorem' on decidability. One of his proponents in Sweden was Per Lindström. \n\nLars Svenonius' early work was in the field of logic known as model theory, in which properties of the interpretations (\"models\") of theories are studied. This field was the object of intense study and saw great progress in the 1950s, largely due to the work of Alfred Tarski and his students at the University of California, Berkeley. At the same time it became much more mathematical, both in techniques and in the concepts used. Svenonius' work was of the modern mathematical\nvariety.\n\nSvenonius' reputation as a mathematical model theorist was established with the publication of three papers in Theoria in 1959 and 1960:\n\n\nIn particular, paper (2) contains what is now called \"Svenonius' Theorem\", an important result on definability of predicates in first order theories. Even the statement of this result requires mathematical model-theoretic concepts. It states that if the interpretation of a predicate in any model of a first-order theory is invariant under permutations (\"automorphisms\") of the model fixing the other predicates, then the interpretation of that predicate is definable in every model by a formula involving only the other predicates; furthermore only finitely many such defining formulas are required. Beth's earlier definability theorem is a consequence of Svenonius' Theorem.\n\nThe other two papers include a characterization of theories having only one countable model, obtained also by the Polish logician Czesław Ryll-Nardzewski, and results on prime models, obtained also by Robert Vaught at Berkeley. All of these results are classics of modern model theory.\n\nPresumably as a result of these papers he was named a Visiting Associate Professor at The University of California, Berkeley, for 1962-1963, and gave an Invited Address at the International Symposium on the Theory of Models held there in 1963. His address was published in the Conference Proceedings (The Theory of Models, North-Holland Publishing Co., 1965) as \"On the denumerable models of theories with extra predicates\", pp 376–389. In this paper he characterizes the countable (\"denumerable\") structures which can be made into models of a theory by adding interpretations of the extra predicates used in defining the theory. His characterization involves (infinite) expressions beginning with an infinite sequence of alternating quantifiers. Such expressions are now interpreted using infinite\ntwo-person games. The importance of this work was only realized after it was rediscovered and extended by Robert Vaught in his work on descriptive set theory and infinitary logics. Svenonius' role is well recognized, for example, by Wilfrid Hodges who defines \"Svenonius games\" and \"Svenonius sentences\" in his encyclopedic treatise Model Theory (Cambridge University Press, 1993).\n\n"}
{"id": "500998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=500998", "title": "Little Albert experiment", "text": "Little Albert experiment\n\nThe Little Albert experiment was a controlled experiment showing empirical evidence of classical conditioning in humans. The study also provides an example of stimulus generalization. It was carried out by John B. Watson and his graduate student, Rosalie Rayner, at Johns Hopkins University. The results were first published in the February 1920 issue of the \"Journal of Experimental Psychology\".\n\nAfter observing children in the field, Watson hypothesized that the fearful response of children to loud noises is an innate unconditioned response. He wanted to test the notion that by following the principles of the procedure now known as \"classical conditioning\", he could use this unconditioned response to condition a child to fear a distinctive stimulus that normally would not be feared by a child (in this case, furry objects).\n\nThe aim of Watson and Rayner was to condition a phobia in an emotionally stable child. For this study they chose a nine-month old infant from a hospital referred to as \"Albert\" for the experiment. Watson followed the procedures which Pavlov had used in his experiments with dogs.\n\nBefore the experiment, Albert was given a battery of baseline emotional tests: the infant was exposed, briefly and for the first time, to a white rat, a rabbit, a dog, a monkey, masks (with and without hair), cotton, wool, burning newspapers, and other stimuli. Albert showed no fear of any of these items during the baseline tests.\n\nFor the experiment proper, Albert was put on a mattress on a table in the middle of a room. A white laboratory rat was placed near Albert and he was allowed to play with it. At this point, Watson and Rayner made a loud sound behind Albert's back by striking a suspended steel bar with a hammer each time the baby touched the rat. Albert responded to the noise by crying and showing fear. After several such pairings of the two stimuli, Albert was presented with only the rat. Upon seeing the rat, Albert got very distressed, crying and crawling away. Apparently, the infant associated the white rat with the noise. The rat, originally a neutral stimulus, had become a conditioned stimulus, and it was eliciting an emotional response (conditioned response) similar to the distress (unconditioned response) originally given to the noise (unconditioned stimulus).\n\nIn further experiments, Little Albert seemed to generalize his response to the white rat. He became distressed at the sight of several other furry objects, such as a rabbit, a furry dog, and a seal-skin coat, and even a Santa Claus mask with white cotton balls in the beard. However, this stimulus generalization did not extend to everything with hair.\n\nIt should be noted that Watson's experiment had many failings by modern standards. For example, it had only a single subject and no control subjects. Furthermore, such an experiment could be hard to conduct in compliance with current law and regulations, given the expected risks to the subject.\n\nAlbert was about one year old at the end of the experiment, and he reportedly left the hospital shortly thereafter. Though Watson had discussed what might be done to remove Albert's conditioned fears, he had no time to attempt such desensitization with Albert, and it is likely that the infant's fear of furry things continued post-experimentally.\n\nWatson later gave a series of weekend lectures describing the Little Albert study. One of these lectures was attended by Mary Cover Jones, which sparked her interest in pursuing graduate work in psychology. Jones conducted an experiment to figure out how to eliminate fear responses in children and studied a boy named Peter, who was two years old. Peter shared similar fears of white rabbits and furry objects to Little Albert. Jones was able to increase Peter's tolerance of white rabbits by exposing him to the animal, known as direct conditioning, and having Peter interact with children who were not afraid of the rabbit. Mary Cover Jones was the first psychologist to desensitize or uncondition a fear response and become known as the \"Mother of Behavior Therapy\". \n\nAccording to some textbooks, Albert's mother worked in the same building as Watson and didn't know the tests were being conducted. When she found out, she took Albert and moved away, letting no one know where they were going. A 2009 report, however, disputes that. The original report had stated that the baby's mother was a wet nurse at the hospital, who may have felt coerced and unable to turn down a request for her baby to be used in Watson's experiment.\n\nIn 2009, psychologists Hall P. Beck and Sharman Levinson published an article in which they claimed to have discovered the true identity of \"Albert B.\" After reviewing Watson's correspondence and publications, as well as research in public documents (such as the 1920 United States Census and state birth and death records), Beck argued that \"Albert B.\" was a pseudonym for Douglas Merritte, the son of Arvilla Merritte, then a woman who appears to have been a wet nurse at the Harriet Lane Home. Recent research has shown, however, that Douglas Merritte may not have been \"Little Albert\", who may in fact have been young William Barger.\n\nThe identity claimed by Beck, Levinson, and Irons has been contested by psychology researchers, Russ Powell and Nancy Digdon, as well as Watson scholar, Ben Harris, who offer an alternative identity based on available data. William Barger had been born within a day of Merritte, was known by friends and family as \"Albert\" (even though his given name was William), and his mother had also worked at the hospital where the experiment was conducted. In addition, his size and developmental condition much more closely matched the experiment's documentation of the subject baby's condition. Through the use of a professional genealogist, the researchers learned Barger had died in 2007 at age 87 and identified one close living relative, a niece. In an interview, Barger's niece stated that she and her uncle had been quite close throughout his life, acknowledged Barger's antipathy toward dogs as a well-known fact that family members would tease him about (the researchers noted there was no way to determine whether or not this behavior was linked to Watson's experiment), and stated that she did not recall any other phobias. The researchers concluded that Barger would have been unaware of his role as an infant test subject.\n\nAlthough he probably continued to fear various furry objects for a time, Albert would likely go on to experience extinction later in life, losing the mental association between furry objects and loud noises. Nonetheless, the experiment today would be considered unethical according to the American Psychological Association's ethic code, and legislation has been passed to prevent such potentially harmful experiments. In the early 1970s, following widely publicized cases of research abuse, The National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research (NCPHS) was created to study issues surrounding the protection of humans in research. In 1979, the Commission issued a report entitled \"Ethical Principles and Guidelines for the Protection of Human Subjects of Research\" (commonly called the \"Belmont Report\"), which provided the ethical framework on which current federal regulations for the protection of human participants in research are based. Under the NCPHS standards set in the late 1970s, an experiment such as Watson's would not have been allowed. There are also regulations now put in place by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the Public Health Service Act, as well as required education since 2000 in the use of human research participants required by the National Institutes of Health.\n\nA detailed review of the original study and its subsequent interpretations by Ben Harris (1979) stated:\nIt is difficult to be certain exactly what happened during the Little Albert Experiment since concrete evidence and scientific records are lacking. Though a film was shot during the experiment, textbooks interpret the movie differently. Various sources give contradicting accounts of events that took place, and they raise questions about exactly what stimuli were used, which stimuli the baby came to fear, and what happened to the child after the experiment. It was said that most textbooks \"suffer from inaccuracies of various degrees\" while referring to Watson and Rayner's study. Texts often misrepresent, exaggerate, or minimize the range of Albert's post-conditioning fears.\n\nOther criticisms stem from the health of the child (cited as Douglas Merritte) who was not a \"healthy,\" \"normal\" infant as claimed in the study, but one who was very ill and had exhibited symptoms of hydrocephalus since birth—according to relatives he never learned to walk or talk later in life. The child would die five years after the experiment due to complications from the congenital disease. It is stated that the study's authors were aware of the child's severe cognitive deficit, abnormal behavior, and unusually frequent crying, but continued to terrify the sick infant and generalize their findings to healthy infants, an act criticized as academic fraud. These accusations have been challenged in another academic article which states that the child was actually William (called Albert by his family) Barger, and that the child was, in fact, healthy.\n\n"}
{"id": "806350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=806350", "title": "Luigi Ferri", "text": "Luigi Ferri\n\nLuigi Ferri (June 15, 1826 – 1895), Italian philosopher, was born at Bologna.\n\nHis education was obtained mainly at the École Normale Supérieure in Paris, where his father, a painter and architect, was engaged in the construction of the Théâtre Italien. From his twenty-fifth year he began to lecture in the colleges of Evreux, Dieppe, Blois and Toulouse. Later, he was lecturer at Annecy and Casal-Montferrat, and became head of the education department under Mamiani in 1860.\n\nThree years later he was appointed to the chair of philosophy at the Istituto di Perfezionamento at Florence, and, in 1871, was made professor of philosophy in the University of Rome La Sapienza. On the death of Mamiani in 1885 he became editor of the \"Filosofia delle scuole italiane\", whose title he changed to \"Rivista italiana di filosofia\". He wrote both on psychology and on metaphysics, but is known especially as a historian of philosophy.\n\nHis original work is eclectic, combining the psychology of his teachers, Jules Simon, Saisset and Mamiani, with the idealism of Rosmini and Gioberti. Among his works may be mentioned:\n"}
{"id": "11691219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11691219", "title": "Melbourne School of Continental Philosophy", "text": "Melbourne School of Continental Philosophy\n\nThe Melbourne School of Continental Philosophy (MSCP) is an institution dedicated to scholarly, extensive and engaged readings of key figures and texts in the history of modern European thought and contemporary discourse. The School was founded in 2003 and formalised its status as an independent, not-for-profit organisation in 2004. It is based in Melbourne, Australia and is housed by The University of Melbourne.\n\nIn January 2002, Cameron Shingleton, Jon Roffe, Matt Sharpe and David Rathbone ran a summer school with four courses (on Nietzsche, on Deleuze, on Zizek and on Hegel, respectively) in the 1888 Building at the University of Melbourne. Sharpe had just finished his PhD on Zizek with Marion Tapper and Jon Rundell at Melbourne; Rathbone had returned to Melbourne from studies with Agnes Heller and Reiner Schurmann at the New School for Social Research in New York; Shingleton had completed his honors degree on Nietzsche in the German department; and Roffe his, in French. All four were of the opinion that the formalities of institutional academia alone were not sufficient to undertaking philosophical and critical thought. They thus formed the MSCP in the spirit of a guild of philosophers with the intention of preserving and fostering genuine intellectual engagement with continental philosophy. In 2003, they were joined by Sean Ryan, Craig Barrie, and Ashley Woodward, and later, Esther Anatolitis, Felicity Joseph, Jack Reynolds, Kate Noble, Alex Murray, Atliana Safich, Mark Tomlinson, Marc Hiatt, James Garrett, Bryan Cooke, Paul Daniels, Andrea Leon-Martino, and Sherah Bloor, all of whom have all been involved in various ways during the five years 2004-2009, running annual Summer and Winter Schools, as well as several conferences and research days.\n\nThe MSCP runs Summer and Winter Schools at the University of Melbourne during the university vacation breaks. Courses in the Schools consist of five two-hour lectures over a week and do not involve assessment or require any demonstrated prior knowledge of the topic in question. As the MSCP is a not-for-profit organisation, registration costs are minimal.\n\nMSCP courses seek a detailed and scholarly encounter with philosophical thinkers and themes. In particular, the courses attempt to promote constructive ways of engaging with philosophy which are not widely represented in contemporary academic discourse. The courses aim to locate philosophy in the context of its historical and cultural milieu, encouraging lively, academic debate, emphasising the interdisciplinary aspects of philosophy. Classes are informal but strive to be rigorous and faithful to the philosophers and texts being studied.\n\nPast courses have covered philosophers such as Hegel, Nietzsche, Heidegger, Wittgenstein, Lyotard, Derrida, Deleuze and Badiou. A series of courses has run over several Summer and Winter Schools entitled 'MSCP History of Philosophy Series' which assessed philosophy from the pre-Socratics to modern empiricism. Similar courses, treating a theme rather than a particular philosopher or text, have included 'Three Centuries of Aphorism' and 'Democracy, Elites and Violence'.\n\nThe MSCP has run conferences including:\n\n\nThe MSCP has initiated a series of research days where philosophers in a particular field converge on a specific topic and workshop their papers together. So far, \"Spinoza and the Infinite\", convened by Jon Roffe was held in December 2005 and was attended by Justin Clemens, Simon Duffy, Minna Koivuniemi and Jon Roffe.\n\n\"\" is an international journal of Critical Philosophy affiliated with MSCP. It is edited by four MSCP members: Alex Murray, Matthew Sharpe, Jon Roffe and Ashley Woodward. It was launched in 2006 and has included articles by Alain Badiou and Jacques Rancière.\n\n \nDuring 2004, the founding Convenor, Jon Roffe, negotiated an informal relationship between the MSCP and the Philosophy Department with Chris Cordner (then Head of the Philosophy Department). This allowed the MSCP to undertake its activities using an office in the Department and University of Melbourne resources and teaching spaces. Late 2004, the MSCP invited Dr Marion Tapper of the University of Melbourne Philosophy Department to become a member. This merely formalised her involvement as she had always been supportive of the MSCP both philosophically and on account of knowing all of its members personally from teaching and supervision.\nOne way in which the MSCP attempts to transcend its university boundaries is by seeking new ways to teach and engage with philosophy. In particular, MSCP events strive to be both informal and rigorous. With their courses offering no credit or assessment, students who attend are usually there for the joy of philosophy and seek to further their own intellects outside of a formal classroom setting. Being a not-for-profit organisation, the MSCP charges a minimum for its courses; again, this is aimed at transcending the current economic climate of university funding.\n\nNew members are typically recommended by current members and, largely because the organisation was founded by postgraduate students, they are usually honours year or postgraduate students themselves.\n\n"}
{"id": "1245254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1245254", "title": "Mind machine", "text": "Mind machine\n\nA mind machine (aka \"brain machine\" or \"light and sound machine\") uses pulsing rhythmic sound, flashing light, electrical or magnetic fields, or a combination of these, to alter the frequency of the user's brainwaves. Mind machines can induce deep states of relaxation, concentration, and in some cases altered states of consciousness, which have been compared to those obtained from meditation and shamanic exploration. Photic mind machines work with flickering lights embedded in sunglasses or a lamp that sits on a tripod above your head or facing you. You then \"Watch\" with your eyes closed. An example of this type of Photic Mind Machine is PandoraStar.\n\nThe process applied by some of these machines is said to induce brainwave synchronisation or entrainment.\n\nThe influence of rhythmic sounds and drums to enter altered states of consciousness is used in different indigenous tribes (see Shamanic music), as well as optical stimulation produced by the flickering light of camp fires or pressing lightly on the eyeballs. This “stroboscopic photo-stimulation produces \"photic driving\", the alpha type of brain electrical activity associated with an altered state in which people are susceptible to suggestion.” ( p. 12).\n\nFirst scientific observations were made by William Charles Wells in the 1790s who described different effects of binocular vision. His results were later transferred to be applied in binaural beats. Visual experiments with flickering lights were conducted in the 1940s by William Grey Walter who used stroboscopic light flashes to measure their effects on brain activity, assessed with EEG. He reported effect not just on visual areas but on the whole cortex.\n\nDuring the '60s and '70s the interest in different methods to induce altered states without the use of drugs were rising. Some of the induced states by rhythmic light and sound combinations were even described as psychedelic-like, while these claims lack adequate measurements for their similarity. In this line, numerous nightclubs began using strobes to maximize the effects of the music for dancing.\n\nThe development of alpha EEG feedback (see neurofeedback) is an important starting point for biofeedback and its explicit use for entering altered states of consciousness. In these decades, Jack Schwarz built one of the first mind machines using rhythmic sounds and variable frequency lights in goggles to produce certain mental states. Enterprises started to produce different types of mind machines and also some scientist followed the line of research to explore if and how these devices elicit effects on brain processes.\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s Farley initiated an investigation concerning medical claims made by some manufacturers and sellers. The FDA concluded that Light and Sound Machines were not medical devices and did not warrant regulation. Sellers and manufacturers were given guidelines for how they could advertise these devices, and were required to include a disclaimer and cautionary document with each machine.\nNowadays, mind machines are rediscovered by some teenage cultures as so called “digital drugs”, a legal way to enter altered states of consciousness.\n\nMind machines include flashing light devices, which are similar to the Brion Gysin dreamachine in that both produce a flickering visual field. Unlike flashing light devices, the dreamachine can be used by several people at once, but has few, if any, technical features.\n\nMind machines typically consist of a control unit, a pair of headphones and/or strobe light goggles. The unit controls the sessions and drives the LEDs in the goggles. Professionally, they are usually referred to as Auditory Visual Stimulation Devices (AVS devices). Also mind machines are offered that can connect to the Internet for updates download of new session material.\n\nOne session normally takes between 15 and 60 minutes. During a session the user should lie relaxed, and place the glasses on the eyes, which should remain closed during the whole session. Many machines have pre-programmed sessions which vary in parameters like light brightness, audio pitch or beat frequency but also give the opportunity for the user to create an own session for him-/herself. Typically one session consists of a series of segments. Within one segment parameters change in a constant way.\nMind machines are often used together with biofeedback or neurofeedback equipment in order to adjust the frequency on the fly, while proof for their effectiveness is lacking.\n\nLight & sound mind machines can have various effects on the user. Most users describe seeing a flashing light, others perceive swirling patterns that have been compared to psychedelic light shows or fractals. A few users report seeing detailed, virtual reality like scenes. But also tactile and emotional changes are reported after a 6 Hz photic stimulation, as well as auditory hallucinations like binaural beats.\n\nSessions will typically aim to address the target frequencies which correspond to delta (1-3 hertz), theta (4–7 Hz), alpha (8–12 Hz) or beta brain waves (13–40 Hz). Those frequency bands can be adjusted by the user based on the desired effects.\n\nFor relaxation, often a reduction from beta waves to lower alpha or theta frequencies is observed. It is aimed to reach a level of “slow alpha” (8 Hz). Glickson (1986) states that an alpha frequency of 10 Hz is optimal for perceiving visual hallucinations. He assumes that it's the change in alpha activity and not the alpha activity itself that is facilitating an altered state of consciousness.\n\nEven if research is not sufficient so far, Michael Hutchison and other scientists report strong tranquilizing effects that lasted up to 3 days. After several sessions it is observed that users can produce a desired brain state with the associated brainwaves easier and deliberately.\n\nClinical research has been done on the use of auditory and visual stimulation to improve cognitive abilities in learning-disabled children as well as in the treatment of autism and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). However, lacking enough evidence to conclude that these treatments show efficacy, several studies indicate the potential to increase effects on IQ and reading levels in primary students (cite Olmstead, 2005), but also improvements in inattention and impulsiveness in children with ADHD (cite Siever).\n\nRapidly flashing lights may be dangerous for people with photosensitive epilepsy or other nervous disorders. It is thought that one out of 10,000 adults will experience a seizure while viewing such a device; about twice as many children will have a similar ill effect.\n\nMind machine devices are legally available throughout the United States from many sources.\n\nWith some exceptions, these devices commonly do not have FDA approval for medical applications in the USA. They have been found by a U.S. district court to be Class III medical devices, and consequentially require FDA pre-market approval for all medical uses. One company making medical claims for a possibly unsafe device has been shut down and seen their devices destroyed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10052975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10052975", "title": "Nan Huai-Chin", "text": "Nan Huai-Chin\n\nNan Huai-Chin () (March 18, 1918 – September 29, 2012) was a spiritual teacher of contemporary China. He was considered by many to be the major force in the revival of Chinese Buddhism. While Nan was regarded by many in China as one of the most influential Chan Buddhist teachers, he was little known outside the Chinese cultural sphere. Nan died at the age of 95 on Sept. 29th, 2012 in Suzhou, China.\n\nNan Huai-Chin was born March 18, 1918, to a scholar-official family in Yueqing county, Wenzhou city, Zhejiang province. In his youth, Nan received a classical education that included various Confucian and Daoist works, as well as traditional Chinese medicine, literature, calligraphy, poetry, and other subjects. In his youth at the age of 18, he became the provincial martial arts champion after studying several Chinese martial arts including swordsmanship with the \"jian\".\n\nNan studied social welfare at Jinling University (now merged with Nanjing University), and later went on to teach at the Republic of China Military Academy in Nanjing. In the late 1930s at the age of 21 years, Nan became a military commander at the border regions of Sichuan, Xikang, and Yunnan during the Second Sino-Japanese War. There, he led a local group of 30,000 men against the Japanese invasion.\n\nWhile still young, Nan left his military career so that he could commit himself fully to his study of Buddhism and to meditation. In 1942 at age 24, he went on a three-year meditation retreat in the Emei Mountains. It is said that it was there that he verified his experiences against the Chinese Buddhist canon. During this time, Nan's primary teacher was Yuan Huanxian (袁煥仙; 1887 – 1966).\n\nIn 1945, Nan went to seek out the teachings of Tibetan Buddhism. The 9th Gangkar Rinpoche (貢噶活佛; 1893 – 1957), a high-ranking tulku of the Kagyu school, also verified Nan's experiences, giving him the title \"Vajra Master.\" Nan was one of the few multidisciplinary experts in the world to be versed in the cultivation schools of Confucianism, Daoism, Tibetan Buddhism, and Chan Buddhism.\n\nNan's Dharma name was \"Tōngchán\" (通禪).\n\nFollowing the revolution in China, Nan later moved to Taiwan in 1949 where he became a well-known university professor and author, teaching at National Chengchi University, Chinese Culture University, and Fu Jen Catholic University. His first book, \"The Sea of Chan\" (禪海蠡測), was published in 1955, and was the first in a line of over 40 books and related materials published in his name.\n\nNan's books have achieved a great deal of popularity in mainland China and Taiwan. In total, more than 20 million copies of his books have been sold in Chinese-speaking countries. Some of his more popular works have gone to a 20th printing in Taiwan and his works on Confucianism are used as standard university references in the mainland and Taiwan. Thomas Cleary, who has translated several of his books into English, has written the following about Nan's works and methodology:\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s, Nan mediated secret cross-strait communications between the mainland China and Taiwan. Two of Nan's students were close confidants of Taiwan's President Lee Teng-hui, and Nan was approached by his student Jia Yibin about creating a communication channel between Lee Teng-hui and mainland China's President Yang Shangkun. Both Jia and Nan mediated cross-straight negotiations, and successfully realized secret chamber meetings between special envoys. In the early 1990s, Nan changed his place of residence from Taiwan to Hong Kong. Some secret cross-strait meetings were held at Nan's private residence in Hong Kong.\n\nIn January 1992, Nan signed a contract with the Chinese government and invested 92 million RMB in the Jinhua–Wenzhou Railway, which is the first joint-stock railway in China. In 2004, Nan returned to the mainland near Suzhou.\n\nNan died at the age of 94 on September 29, 2012.\n\nIn Wujiang District, Suzhou, in 2006, Nan founded the Taihu Great Learning Center (), which contains the Wujiang Taihu International School. The school curriculum is meant to combine the best approaches of traditional China and the West. It has unique emphases such as meditation, ethics and etiquette, traditional Chinese medical theory, and Chinese and English recitation. The name of the school is in reference to the \"Great Learning\", one of the \"Four Books\" of Confucianism.\n\nThis is a list of translations of Nan Huai-Chin's books. The vast majority of books written by Nan have not been translated into the English language from the original Chinese.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16274441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16274441", "title": "Nana Asma’u", "text": "Nana Asma’u\n\nNana Asma'u (full name: Nana Asma’u bint Shehu Usman dan Fodiyo, ; 1793–1864) was a princess, poet, teacher, and a daughter of the founder of the Sokoto Caliphate, Usman dan Fodio. She remains a revered figure in northern Nigeria. She is held up by some as an example of education and independence of women possible under Islam, and by others as a precursor to modern feminism in Africa.\n\nNana Asma'u was born some 11 years before the Fulani War (1804–08), and was named after Asma bint Abi Bakr, a companion of the Muslim Prophet. The daughter of the Sufi-inspired and Fulɓe-led Sokoto Caliphate's founder and half-sister of its Muhammed Bello (the second Sultan of Sokoto), she outlived most of the founding generation of the Caliphate, making her an important source of guidance to its later rulers. From 1805, members of the Caliph's family came to great prominence, including the Caliph's female relatives. While Nana Asma'u became the most prominent, her sisters Myram and Fatima, and the Caliph's wives Aisha and Hawwa played major literary and political roles in the new state. Like her father, she was educated in Qur'anic studies, and placed a high value upon universal education. As exemplars of the Qadiriyyah Sufi school, the dan Fodio and his followers stressed the sharing of knowledge, especially that of the Sunnah, the example of the prophet Muhammad. To learn without teaching, they thought, was sterile and empty. Thus Nana Asma'u was devoted, in particular, to the education of the Muslim women. Like most of the rest of her family, she became a prolific author.\n\nWell educated in the classics of the Arab and Classical world, and well versed in four languages (Arabic, the Fula language, Hausa and Tamacheq Tuareg), Nana Asma'u had a public reputation as a leading scholar in the most influential Muslim state in West Africa, which gave her the opportunity to correspond broadly. She witnessed many of the wars of the Fulani War and wrote about her experiences in a prose narrative \"Wakar Gewaye\", \"The Journey\". As the Sokoto Caliphate began as a cultural and religious revolutionary movement, the writings of its leaders held a special place by which later generations, both rulers and ruled, could measure their society. She became a counsellor to her brother when he took the Caliphate, and is recorded writing instructions to governors and debating with the scholars of foreign princes.\n\nAmong her more than 60 surviving works written over 40 years, Nana Asma’u left behind a large body of poetry in Arabic, the Fula language and Hausa, all written in the Arabic script. Many of these are historical narratives, but they also include elegies, laments, and admonitions. Her poems of guidance became tools for teaching the founding principles of the Caliphate. Asma'u also collaborated closely with Muhammed Bello, the second Caliph. Her works include and expand upon the dan Fodio's strong emphasis on women leaders and women's rights within the community ideals of the Sunnah and Islamic law.\n\nOthers of the surviving written works by Asma'u are related to Islamic education: for much of her adult life she was responsible for women's religious education. Starting around 1830, she created a cadre of women teachers (\"jajis\") who travelled throughout the Caliphate educating women in the students' homes. In turn, each of these \"jajis\" used Nana Asma’u's and other Sufi scholars writings, usually through recited mnemonics and poetry, to train crops of learned women, called the \"’yan-taru\", or \"those who congregate together, the sisterhood.\" To each \"jaji\" she bestowed a malfa (a hat and traditional ceremonial symbol of office of the pagan Bori priestesses in Gobir) tied with a red turban. The \"jajis\" became, thus, symbols of the new state, the new order, and of Islamic learning even outside women's community. In part, this educational project began as a way to integrate newly conquered pagan captives into a Muslim ruling class. It expanded, however, to include the poor and rural, training teachers who travelled across the sprawling Caliphate.\n\nNana Asma'u's continued legacy rests not just on her literary work, but also on her role in defining the values of the Sokoto state. Today in Northern Nigeria, Islamic women's organisations, schools, and meeting halls are commonly named for her. She re-entered the debate on the role of women in Islam in the 20th century, as her legacy has been carried by Islamic scholars and immigrants to Europe and its academic debates. \n\nThe republishing and translation of her works has brought added attention to the purely literary value of her prose and poems. She is the subject of several studies, including Jean Boyd's \"The Caliph's Sister: Nana Asma'u 1793–1865: Teacher, Poet and Islamic Leader\" (1989), described as an \"important book\" that \"provides a good read for the nonspecialist willing to discard common stereotypes about women in Africa\", and \"One Woman's Jihad: Nana Asma’u, Scholar and Scribe\" by Beverly B. Mack and Jean Boyd (2000). \"The Collected Works of Nana Asma’u, Daughter of Usman dan Fodiyo 1793–1864\", edited by Boyd and Mack, was published in 1997.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28109716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28109716", "title": "Nathan Rotenstreich", "text": "Nathan Rotenstreich\n\nNathan Rotenstreich (; born 31 March 1914, died 11 October 1993) was an Israeli professor of philosophy.\n\nNathan Rotenstreich (31.3.1914 – 11.10.1993) was born in Sambir, Galicia, then in Austria-Hungary, later in Poland, now in Ukraine. His father, Ephraim Fischel Rotenstreich, was a Zionist leader and a member of the Polish two houses of Parliament. In 1932, at the age of 18, Rotenstreich emigrated to Mandate Palestine.\n\nRotenstreich studied philosophy at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, receiving his PhD in 1938. He joined the faculty in 1950 and served as Dean of the faculty of Humanities (1958-1962) and the Rector of the university from 1965 to 1969. He was a member of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities from 1959, and its vice president at the time of his death. \nHe wrote 80 books and more than 1000 papers in various languages.\n\nIn 1973, he was appointed the first Chairman of the Planning and Budgeting Committee of the Council for Higher Education in Israel. \nHe was actively involved in public life in Israel, was a member of Mapai party for a while, and expressed his political views in many articles published in Israeli newspapers. He engaged in public debates with David Ben Gurion together with other colleagues regarding Ben Gurion's views of the role of the Jewish State in history and also at the time of the Lavon Affair.\n\nAwards and honors\nThe Tchernichovsky Prize for the translation of Kant's Critiques in 1964.\nThe Israel Prize in Humanities in 1963 for his works and achievements in philosophy.\nThe Bialik Prize in Jewish Thought in 1991.\n\nHe died in Jerusalem in October 1993.\nIn his memory there is a square in Jerusalem and a street in Be'er Sheva. Also, Nathan Rotenstreich scholarships for Ph.D. Students in Humanities are awarded each year by the Planning and Budgeting Committee of the Council for Higher Education\n\n\nWege zur Erkennbarkeit der Welt. Freiburg, München: Alber Verlag 1983.\n\n\"(To be completed)\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8420435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8420435", "title": "Perajurit Tanah Air", "text": "Perajurit Tanah Air\n\nPerajurit Tanah Air or Inilah Barisan Kita is a patriotic Malaysian national song. Composed by Saiful Bahari. The song is remarkable for its impartial, egalitarian lyrics, which extols the soldiers' love and duty to the motherland without explicit reference to any particular race or religion.\n\n\"Perajurit Tanah Air\" found renewed popularity among Malaysians in the wake of the 2013 Lahad Datu standoff.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40023871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40023871", "title": "Philosophy of eating", "text": "Philosophy of eating\n\nPhilosophy of Eating is a concept of food production and nutritional philosophy that matches the source and result of health together.\n\nThe core of these points of view is to attach a mental state of mind with the sources of proper agricultural food sources in a balance of harmony in part because the sources have freshness and purity. Modern assertions are that the fresh foods contain vital micronutrients generally lost in most food processing.\n\nAdditional issues are brought to light in modern times where advertising along with subtle cues in color or related sensory inputs are masking substandard or even toxic ingredients present. The masquerade of dyes and organic chemicals from non-food sources become key in the current vernacular of various publications and nutrition movements.\n\nAs a book The Philosophy of Eating by author Andrew Bellows in the late 1860s. The author portrayed the concepts in light of science as well as views drawn from religiosity common in the middle to late 1860's era. So with a biblical fervor as an original direction of inspiration the author then supplies a variety of what was then scientific knowledge to correctly apply that in agriculture to the table in the kitchen. Fresh fruits and grains as those so ordained in the work making up a core of inputs to the meats of the day looked upon in detail most up to that time obtained from the local butcher.\n\nMore recent incarnations derived from this are exhibited in raw foodism for people. This manifestation seen in a variety of areas including vegan food preparation and offshoots related. The micronutrients amylases, proteases, and lipases aid digestion. to a variety of shared characteristics of the origins of food spelled out in the 1860s book started to mainstream more so as a backlash to simplify the sourcing to consumption in thought as well a contexts for acceptability.\n\nContemporary revisiting of this in a new updated book continuing is a more secular scientific work by George Davey who published a 2013 book called \"Break the Trance\". Break the Trance\n. With more up to date scientific analysis than the treatise from Andrew Bellows the author describes how mechanisms of discovery, chemical masks and the driving forces beyond that of the earlier works in the topic.\n\nPhilosophy extends from the scientific observation to how we as people treat our animals versus ourselves in dietary habits from youth through to adulthood.\n\nReviving the lost art of nourishing ourselves blogged about in part to illustrate this as a proper approach.\n\nThough cited in Break the Trance, health philosophy of eating like our paleolithic ancestors is found in a variety directions including mineral intake.\n\nProcessed foods get celebration along with trepidation in newer periodicals in 2013. Scientific American and Wired devote entire issues to food content and philosophy of nutrition.\n\nParticularly, the scientific basis is now better understood and psychological remediation or behavior patterns are more amenable to that of a reader in modern times contrasted with processed food celebration by. The continued strength of industrialized food troubles some people though.\n\n"}
{"id": "41220192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41220192", "title": "Practical syllogism (theology)", "text": "Practical syllogism (theology)\n\nIn Reformed theology, the practical syllogism () is a concept relating assurance of salvation to evidence in a person's life of such, such as good works and sanctification. The major premise of the syllogism is that some principle is characteristic of being a Christian. The minor premise is that the characteristic in present in oneself. The conclusion is that one is a Christian. Works are said to be the epistemological ground of faith and justification, rather than the ontological ground, because the evidences of faith only make faith apparent; they do not create it.\nJohn Calvin recognizes that outward signs of God's favor may confirm faith, but warns against inferring election from such signs. Faith is always to be placed in the preaching of the gospel rather than any outward action of the believer, but the outward actions may be a final confirmation of election. The concept is present in several Reformed confessions of faith. The Heidelberg Catechism includes assurance as one of the reasons Christians should perform good works. The Westminster Confession calls good works \"the Fruits and Evidences of a true and lively faith.\"\n"}
{"id": "47796081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47796081", "title": "Public Access Scheme", "text": "Public Access Scheme\n\nThe Public Access Scheme (a.k.a. \"Direct Access\") allows members of the public in England & Wales to instruct a barrister directly. In the past, it was necessary for clients to use a solicitor or other third party in order to instruct a barrister.\n\nThe Public Access Scheme was first established in 2004. Initially, there was a natural inclination to proceed gradually with its implementation. The scheme heralded the first time for more than a century that barristers could be instructed directly by the public without the involvement of a solicitor, and there was a level of uncertainty as to whether clients would understand the limitations of barristers’ work. Understandably, it was felt that the new scheme should be approached carefully. \n\nOver the course of numerous consultations conducted by the Bar Standards Board, the rules for public access practice were gradually relaxed to serve the public interest, particularly in light of pending cuts to Legal Aid funding. The current Public Access rules, which enable the widest scope of direct public access to barristers to date, are covered in C119-C131 of the Code of Conduct contained in the Bar Standards Board Handbook which came into force on 15 April 2015.\n\nThe main advantage of the Public Access Scheme for consumers of legal services is the opportunity to save on legal costs, specifically solicitor’s fees. However, removing solicitors from the processes of running a legal case often requires that clients themselves must perform the majority of document management, filing, and other related activities in the context of conducting litigation. \n\nBarristers are not allowed to take on public access clients unless doing so is in both the client’s best interests and in the interests of justice. Therefore, in complicated cases barristers must recommend to clients that they obtain external support from a solicitor. However, since the expense of using a solicitor can potentially defeat the 'cost-saving' purpose of the Public Access Scheme, consumers have the option of using a provider of Public Access Legal Support service (PALS), which is a specialised paralegal resource catering to barristers and clients who work together within the framework of the Public Access Scheme. \n"}
{"id": "32588007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32588007", "title": "Richard Robinson (philosopher)", "text": "Richard Robinson (philosopher)\n\nRichard Robinson (Watton, Norfolk, 12 April 1902–6 May 1996, Oxford) was an English secularist philosopher.\n\nRobinson was educated at Repton School and Oxford University.\n\nHe taught at Cornell University from 1928 to 1946, then returned to Oxford University for over 20 years. He translated and edited books and articles on Plato and Aristotle.\n\nMost of his books were academic, but \"An Atheist's Values\" gave him a popular audience. Nicolas Walter, writing in \"The Independent\", described the book as \"one of the best short accounts of liberalism (a term Robinson accepted) and humanism (a term he ignored) produced during the present century, all the more powerful for its lucidity and moderation, its wit and wisdom.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "15274221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15274221", "title": "Science and Christian Belief", "text": "Science and Christian Belief\n\nScience and Christian Belief is a biannual peer-reviewed academic journal published by Paternoster Press on behalf of Christians in Science and the Victoria Institute. The editors-in-chief are Keith R Fox and Meric Srokosz.\n\nThe journal was established in 1989, with Oliver Barclay and A. Brian Robins as co-editors-in-chief. It is abstracted and indexed in \"New Testament Abstracts\", \"Religion Index One: Periodicals\", and \"Religious & Theological Abstracts\", and is distributed by EBSCO Information Services as part of Academic Search and other collections. The journal is free to members of Christians in Science.\n\nThe Victoria Institute (also known as the Philosophical Society of Great Britain) published the \"Journal of the Transactions of The Victoria Institute\", which was established in 1866; it was renamed \"Faith and Thought\" in 1958, and then merged with the (informal) \"CIS Bulletin\" in 1989, obtaining its current name, \"Faith and Thought\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2672455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2672455", "title": "Secret Santa", "text": "Secret Santa\n\nSecret Santa is a Western Christmas tradition in which members of a group or community are randomly assigned a person to whom they give a gift. The identity of the gift giver is a secret not to be revealed until after the gift is opened. \n\nDeriving from the Christian tradition, the ritual is known as \"Secret Santa\" in the United States and the United Kingdom; as \"Kris Kringel\" or \"Kris Kindle\" (\"Christkindl\") in Ireland; as \"Wichteln, Secret Santa\", \"Kris Kringle\", \"Chris Kindle\" (\"Christkindl\") or Engerl-Bengerl in parts of Austria; as \"Secret Santa\" or \"Kris Kringle\" in Canada and Australia; as \"Secret Santa\", \"Kris Kringle\", or \"Monito-monita\" in the Philippines; as \"Angelito\" in the Dominican Republic; and as \"Wichteln\" in Germany. \"Wichteln\" is what a \"Wichtel\", a wight, does, a good deed. In Poland, the tradition is celebrated on the day of 6 December (Mikołajki), in Ukraine — on December, 19th (Mykolay). All of these names derive from traditional Christmas gift-bringers: the American custom is named after Santa Claus, or St Nicholas (Poland and Ukraine), while \"Chris Kindle\" and \"Kris Kringle\" are both corruptions of the original name of the Austrian gift-bringer \"Christkindl\", which means the \"Christ Child\". Exceptions are the UK (where the traditional gift-bringer is Father Christmas) and the Philippines (which has the Three Kings). Spain, Portugal and most places in Latin America use \"amigo secreto\" (secret friend) or \"amigo invisible/invisível\" (invisible friend). In Israel, this game is called \"גמד וענק\" (A Dwarf and a Giant) and is mostly played during Purim.\n\nThe term \"Pollyanna\" is used in Southeastern Pennsylvania and South Jersey.\n\nIn this version, participants (players) bring one gift each which is potentially suitable or interesting to any of the other participants. The gifts should be wrapped in such a way as to disguise their nature. Ideally, the provider of each gift should not be disclosed when setting up the game. Players take turns, and can either open a new gift, or steal a previously opened gift. This game is more commonly known as the white elephant gift exchange, or Yankee Swap.\n\nEach participant brings a gift for their assigned person, with a letter. This letter may or may not have hints on who the giver might be, depending on the rules participants have established. Each receiver must guess who made the gift.\n\nIn this version, each person buys a gift for specific amount, not for anyone specifically. Each person also puts in a specific amount of money into a pot. Who goes first in gift selection can be determined by random selection. The options are:\n\n\nAt the end, the gifts that were chosen are opened and the winner of the money and leftover gifts are drawn.\n\nIn this version, participants engage in a \"conspiracy\" where all participants work together to select a gift for a single participant without that participant's direct involvement or knowledge. Many such individual \"conspiracies\" run concurrently, one for each participant. Email threads or web apps are commonly used to manage each \"conspiracy\" until a consensus is made, wherein the gift is purchased by a decided upon participant and given at a later date. A common theme of Conspiracy Santa is collectively learning about participants, making it popular for workplaces and schools.\n\nThe tradition of Secret Santa is becoming increasingly popular in online communities. \n\nOn the one hand there are several \"Secret Santa Generators\" that tell every participant in a group for whom to buy a gift. This is especially useful for groups who can't meet in person to draw the names from a hat or bowl before the Secret Santa event. Popular \"Secret Santa Generators\" are:\nOn the other hand there are communities like redditgifts where you don't know the person for whom you buy a gift or from whom you receive a gift.\n"}
{"id": "32650732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32650732", "title": "Straight pride", "text": "Straight pride\n\nStraight pride is a slogan that arose in the late 1980s and early 1990s and has been used primarily by social conservative groups as a political stance and strategy. The term is described as a response to gay pride adopted by various LGBT groups in the early 1970s or to the accommodations provided to gay pride initiatives.\n\nStraight pride backlash incidents have generated controversy and media attention. School policies and court decisions regarding freedom of expression have drawn particular attention, spotlighting individuals protesting school expressions against harassment of LGBT adolescents.\n\nThe concept of LGBT pride originates as a movement which seeks to challenge the negative images of LGBT people by being openly identified with a culturally stigmatized group; as such, it creates a discomfort.\n\nIn this context, the terms \"straight pride\" and \"heterosexual pride\" exist as an argument criticizing gay pride as unnecessary, stating by contrast with heterosexuality that heterosexuals \"don't talk about straight pride\", don't have \"straight pride rallies\", and would be seen as ridiculous if they were to \"band together and have a heterosexual pride [...] parade\".\n\nThis \"appeal to ridicule\" argument expresses the idea that showing pride for a homosexual orientation is equally absurd. Analysts of LGBT rights state as a counter-argument that mainstream culture offers many approved social venues (weddings, baptism, family reunions...) for heterosexuals to express and celebrate their sexual orientation in public, while homosexuals usually feel isolated and pride parades offer them support and an opportunity for socializing.\n\n\"Heterosexual pride\" parades exist as a response to societal acceptance of LGBT visibility, and originated in campuses in the 1990s as a backlash tactic.\n\nIncidents where the slogan or concept of \"Straight pride\" caused controversy have occurred since the late 1980s. In 1988, for example, Vermont Republican John Burger asked the state's Governor to establish a \"Straight Pride Day\". In 1990, rallies in support of Straight Pride were held at the University of Massachusetts Amherst (organized by the group Young Americans for Freedom) and nearby Mount Holyoke College. In 1991, conservative organizations at University of Massachusetts Amherst organized a \"Straight Pride\" rally attended by about 50 people and protested by a crowd estimated to be ten times larger.\n\nEvents which draw media attention are \"Straight pride parades\" or \"Straight Pride days\", often organized in response to similar events organized by gay groups. Other events, typically occurring in United States high schools where First Amendment concerns arise, have revolved around people desiring to wear \"Straight Pride\" t-shirts.\n\nAt a 2010 Tea Party Express rally in Lansing, the state capital of Michigan, a vendor was selling T-shirts printed with the slogan \"Straight Pride\". Some state and national gay advocacy groups denounced the shirts, claiming that they echoed the use by racist groups of a \"white pride\" slogan. Some of the opposition arose from reports that the shirt seller was a sponsor of the event with a cut of sales funding the Tea Party Express, although those reports may not have been accurate.\n\nSupport for straight pride events is often based on religious objections to homosexuality. Groups such as the White Aryan Resistance and Ku Klux Klan have also tried to oppose \"gay pride\" by stressing straight pride.\n\n\nIn 2001, Woodbury High School in Woodbury, Minnesota, a suburb of Saint Paul, Minnesota, created homophobia-free areas called \"safe zones\" designated by an inverted pink triangle and intended for LGBT students. Student Elliot Chambers reacted by wearing a makeshift sweatshirt with the slogan \"Straight Pride\" and the image of male and female stick figures holding hands. In light of previous anti-LGBT incidents, the school's principal ordered Chambers to remove the shirt, and a court case ensued. A court upheld Chambers' complaint that his First Amendment rights had been violated, and that the principal's decision was unjustified. Although praising the principal's intentions, the judge explained that views of both sides of the debate should be allowed and that such issues should be resolved within the school's community, not within the court system. Under the Tinker case, the court stated that the substantial disruptions claimed by the school must be shown to have some connection to Chambers' sweatshirt message of \"Straight Pride\".\n\nIn 2010, in response to local suicides amongst LGBT adolescents, an Ally Week was held at St. Charles North High School in St. Charles, Illinois. On the first day of this Ally Week, though, three students arrived wearing \"Straight Pride\" t-shirts. The back of these t-shirts displayed \"\", the verse stating that those who perform homosexual acts should be put to death. While the school did not force the students to remove their t-shirts, it did persuade them to remove the bible quotation. The following day two different students arrived wearing \"Straight Pride\" t-shirts minus the Bible quotations and were consequently asked to remove their shirts. In an opinion piece on the St. Charles incident, Eric Zorn (a staff writer for the \"Chicago Tribune\") opined that \"the expression 'Straight Pride' can only be read as a gratuitous and contemptuous response to the suggestion that gay people not be marginalized.\"\n\nIn school environments, straight pride expressions and events have been reviewed within a framework of balancing freedom of expression with protection of other students. In some situations, schools take actions against students who are open about or encourage hiding homosexuality, or limit clothing that has references to sexual orientation. Such may prompt lawsuits. In the Minnesota Chambers v. Babbitt case, \"The court noted that maintaining a school community of tolerance includes tolerance of such viewpoints as expressed by 'Straight Pride' as well as tolerance of homosexuality.\" Conversely, it is advocated that students (including openly gay students) who are valued and respected are \"more likely to learn and achieve than students who are not\", requiring a balance in the school's approach to straight pride expressions.\n\n"}
{"id": "166587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166587", "title": "Tariqa", "text": "Tariqa\n\nA tariqa (or \"tariqah\"; \"\") is a school or order of Sufism, or specifically a concept for the mystical teaching and spiritual practices of such an order with the aim of seeking \"Haqiqa\", which translates as \"ultimate truth\".\n\nA tariqa has a \"murshid\" (guide) who plays the role of leader or spiritual director. The members or followers of a tariqa are known as \"muridin\" (singular \"murid\"), meaning \"desirous\", viz. \"desiring the knowledge of knowing God and loving God\" (also called a \"Faqir\").\n\nThe metaphor of \"way, path\" is to be understood in connection of the term \"sharia\" which also has the meaning of \"path\", more specifically \"well-trodden path; path to the waterhole\". The \"path\" metaphor of \"tariqa\" is that of a further path, taken by the mystic, which continues from the \"well-trodden path\" or exoteric of \"sharia\" towards the esoteric \"haqiqa\". A fourth \"station\" following the succession of \"shariah\", \"tariqa\" and \"haqiqa\" is called \"marifa\". This is the \"unseen center\" of \"haqiqa\", and the ultimate aim of the mystic, corresponding to the unio mystica in Western mysticism. \"Tasawwuf\", Arabic word that refers to mysticism and Islamic esotericism, is known in the West as Sufism.\n\nThe most popular tariqa in the West is the Mevlevi Order, named after Jalal ad-Din Muhammad Rumi. In the same time the Bektashi Order was also founded, named after the Alevi Muslim saint Haji Bektash Veli. Four large tariqas in South Asia are: the Naqshbandi Order, named after Baha-ud-Din Naqshband Bukhari; the Qadiri Order, named after Abdul Qadir Jilani; the Chishti Order, named after Khawaja Mawdood Chisti while Khawaja Moinuddin Chishti is the most famous sheikh; the Suhrawardi Order, named after Shahab al-Din Suhrawardi. Large tariqats in Africa include Muridiyya and Tijaniyya. Others can be offshoots of a tariqa. For example, the Qalandariyya has roots in Malamatiyya (with Buddhism and Hinduism influence) and Wafa'i (a combination of Yasawiyya-Sunni and Batiniyya-Shia) of orders are offshoots of the Suhrawardi order. The Ashrafia after the 13 the century illustrious sufi saint Ashraf Jahangir Semnani is the sub branch of Chisti spiritual lineage. The Maizbhandari Tariqa or Maizbhandari Sufi Order is a liberated Sufism order established in the Bangladesh in the 19th century by the Gausul Azam Shah Sufi Syed Ahmadullah Maizbhandari (1826 AD − 1906 AD), 27th descendent of the Islamic prophet, Muhammad.\n\nMembership of a particular Sufi order is not exclusive and cannot be likened to the ideological commitment to a political party. Unlike the Christian monastic orders which are demarcated by firm lines of authority and sacrament, Sufis often are members of various Sufi orders. The non-exclusiveness of Sufi orders has consequences for the social extension of Sufism. They cannot be regarded as indulging in a zero sum competition which a purely political analysis might have suggested. Rather their joint effect is to impart to Sufism a cumulant body of tradition, rather than individual and isolated experiences.\n\nIn most cases the sheikh nominates his \"khalifa\" or \"successor\" during his lifetime, who will take over the order. In rare cases, if the sheikh dies without naming a \"khalifa\", the students of the tariqa elect another spiritual leader by vote. In some orders it is recommended to take a \"Khalif\" from the same order as the \"murshid\". In some groups it is customary for the khalifa to be the son of the sheikh, although in other groups the khalīfa and the sheikh are not normally relatives. In yet other orders a successor may be identified through the spiritual dreams of its members.\n\nTariqas have \"silsilas\" () \"chain, lineage of sheikhs\". Almost all orders except the Naqshbandi order claim a \"silsila\" that leads back to Muhammad through Ali. (The Naqshbandi Silsila goes back to Abu Bakr, the first Caliph of Sunni Islam, and then Muhammad ibn Abi Bakr. Historians however have traced this chain back to Ali as Muhammad ibn Abi Bakr was brought up by Ali from the age of three).\n\nEvery \"Murid\", on entering the tariqa, gets his \"awrad\", or daily recitations, authorized by his \"murshid\" (usually to be recited before or after the pre-dawn prayer, after the afternoon prayer and after the evening prayer). Usually these recitations are extensive and time-consuming (for example the \"awrad\" may consist of reciting a certain formula 99, 500 or even 1000 times). One must also be in a state of ritual purity (as one is for the obligatory prayers to perform them while facing Mecca). The recitations change as a student (murid) moves from a mere initiate to other Sufi degrees (usually requiring additional initiations). The Initiation ceremony is routine and consists of reading chapter 1 of the Quran followed by a single phrase prayer. Criteria have to be met to be promoted in rank: the common way is to repeat a single phrase prayer 82,000 times or more as in the case of Burhaniyya, a number that grows with each achieved rank. Murids who experience unusual interaction during meditation: hear voices like \"would you like to see a prophet?\" or see visions who might even communicate with the Murid are held dear in the \"Haḍra\", the weekly group-chanting of prayers in attempt of reaching spirits as they are likely to experience something unusual and pass it on. This Murid is promoted faster than others. The least common way is to cause a miracle to happen with criteria similar to that of Catholic Sainthood.\n\nBeing mostly followers of the spiritual traditions of Islam loosely referred to as Sufism, these groups were sometimes distinct from the \"Ulma\" or officially mandated scholars, and often acted as informal missionaries of Islam. They provided accepted avenues for emotional expressions of faith, and the Tariqas spread to all corners of the Muslim world, and often exercised a degree of political influence inordinate to their size (take for example the influence that the sheikhs of the Safavid had over the armies of Tamerlane, or the missionary work of Ali-Shir Nava'i in Turkistan among the Mongol and Tatar people).\nThe tariqas were particularly influential in the spread of Islam in the sub-Sahara during the 9th to 14th centuries, where they spread south along trade routes between North Africa and the sub-Saharan kingdoms of Ghana and Mali. On the West African coast they set up Zawiyas on the shores of the river Niger and even established independent kingdoms such as \"al-Murabitun\" or Almoravids. The Al Hakika Mizaan Mizaani Sufi Order deals with heavy internalization and meditations, their spiritual practice is called Al Qudra Mizaan [(United States)]. The Sanusi order were also highly involved in missionary work in Africa during the 19th century, spreading both Islam and a high level of literacy into Africa as far south as Lake Chad and beyond by setting up a network of \"zawiyas\" where Islam was taught. Much of central Asia and southern Russia was won over to Islam through the missionary work of the Tarīqahs, and the majority of Indonesia's population, where a Muslim army never set foot, was converted to Islam by the perseverance of both Muslim traders and Sufi missionaries.\n\nTariqas were brought to China in the 17th century by Ma Laichi and other Chinese Sufis who had studied in Mecca and Yemen, and had also been influenced by spiritual descendants of the Kashgarian Sufi master Afaq Khoja. On the Chinese soil the institutions became known as \"menhuan\", and are typically headquartered near the tombs (\"gongbei\") of their founders.\n\nCertain scholars, e.g., G. H. Jansen, credit the original tariqas with several specific accomplishments:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26285540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26285540", "title": "Teaching Philosophy", "text": "Teaching Philosophy\n\nTeaching Philosophy is a peer-reviewed academic journal devoted to the practical and theoretical discussion of teaching and learning philosophy, that is philosophy education. Established by Arnold Wilson in 1975, it has published over 2,500 articles and reviews in this field. Notable contributors include Norman Bowie, Myles Brand, Peter Caws, Angela Davis, Daniel Dennett, Alasdair MacIntyre, Rosalind Ladd, Michael Pritchard, Anita Silvers, and Robert C. Solomon. Members of the American Association of Philosophy Teachers and the Philosophy Learning and Teaching Organization have access as a benefit of membership. This journal has a Level 1 classification from the Publication Forum of the Federation of Finnish Learned Societies. and a SHERPA/RoMEO \"green\" self-archiving policy. It is published on behalf of the Teaching Philosophy Association by the Philosophy Documentation Center.\n\nTopics frequently covered include:\n\n\"Teaching Philosophy\" is abstracted and indexed in Academic Search Premier, Arts & Humanities Citation Index, Contents Pages in Education, Education Research Index, ERIH PLUS, Expanded Academic ASAP, FRANCIS, Google Scholar, Index Philosophicus, InfoTrac OneFile, International Bibliography of Book Reviews of Scholarly Literature, International Bibliography of Periodical Literature, International Philosophical Bibliography, MLA International Bibliography, Periodicals Index Online, Philosopher's Index, PhilPapers, Scopus, and TOC Premier.\n\nThe following articles have received the biennial 'Mark Lenssen Prize for Publishing on Teaching Philosophy' from the American Association of Philosophy Teachers: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "18388177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18388177", "title": "Tommaso Campailla", "text": "Tommaso Campailla\n\nTommaso Campailla (7 April 1668 – 7 February 1740) was an Italian philosopher, doctor, politician, poet and teacher.\n\nCampailla was born in Modica in 1668 to the aristocratic family of Antonio and Adriana Giardina. When sixteen years old he studied law in Catania, later following self-study after returning to Modica. His further studies included those in literature, Cartesian philosophy, science, astronomy, and physics.\n\nThe effects of his own ill heath led him to self-taught medical studies and self-healing practices and invented medical apparatus, particularly those with the use of mercury. He administered successfully as a physician in Modica, and taught other doctors, particularly in cures for syphilis, although these were often \"considered outlandish and questionable\" by his contemporaries. \n\nAs a writer, Campailla's most significant work, published 1709 and 1723, was the epic Cartesian-inspired poem \"The Adam\", of twenty verses describing a simple uncorrupt man discovering and contemplating truth through the help of archangel Raphael. Editions of the poem were sold in various parts of Italy, and in England.\nThe poem was later dedicated to Charles VI, Holy Roman Emperor, and King of Sicily. The philosopher George Berkeley visited Modica and introduced Campailla to the works of Isaac Newton which afterwards became influential in Campailla's writings. \n\nCampailla was a friend to (1681-1762), a poet who wrote in 'Arcadian' style.\n\nTommaso Campailla married and had issue, was reluctantly elected a senator seven times, and refused professorships for London and Padua through reluctance to travel. He died of a stroke aged 72, on 7 February 1740, and his body interred near the altar of Modica's Cathedral of St George, with a plaque to his memory by the entrance.\n\nThe Museo Medico Tommaso Campailla, in Piazza Campailla, Modica, is named after Tommaso Campailla, and contains medical equipment he used, his anatomical theatre, his medical volumes, and more recent photographs of the stages of syphilitic progression. His former home in Modica is today a restaurant. A Modica High School & Technical Institute, the 'Liceo Galilei - Campailla Modica', is named after Tommaso Campailla and Galileo Galilei.\n\n"}
{"id": "20053439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20053439", "title": "Ward Jones", "text": "Ward Jones\n\nWard E. Jones is a scholar at Rhodes University in Grahamstown, South Africa, where he is a professor of philosophy. He joined the department in 1999.\n\nHis DPhil. thesis, entitled \"The View from Here: A First-person Constraint on Believing\" was completed in 1998 at Oxford University. While finishing his thesis, Jones spent three years teaching philosophy at various colleges in Oxford.\n\nJones has published in the areas of epistemology, ethics, philosophy of mind, aesthetics, and metaphilosophy.\n\nWith a 1997 paper, 'Why Do We Value Knowledge', published in American Philosophical Quarterly, he won regard as one of the early contributors to the nascent debate on the Meno problem. In collaboration with Samantha Vice, he has edited and contributed to \"Ethics at the Cinema\", which was published by Oxford University Press in 2010.\n\nTurning to metaphilosophy in 2013, he completed a short manuscript, entitled 'Dissensus and the Value of Philosophy', on the value of philosophy to the non-philosopher'. It is currently under consideration at publishers.\n\nHe is currently co-editor of Philosophical Papers, published by Routledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "293350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293350", "title": "Wonhyo", "text": "Wonhyo\n\nWon Hyo (617 – April 28, 686) was one of the leading thinkers, writers and commentators of the Korean Buddhist tradition. Essence-Function (), a key concept in East Asian Buddhism and particularly Korean Buddhism, was refined in the syncretic philosophy and world view of Wonhyo.\n\nAs one of the most eminent scholar-monks in Korean history, he was an influential figure in the development of the East Asian Buddhist intellectual and commentarial tradition. His extensive literary output runs to over 80 works in 240 fascicles, and some of his commentaries, such as those on the \"Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\" and the \"Awakening of Faith in the Mahayana\", became classics revered throughout China and Japan as well as Korea. In fact, his commentary on the \"Awakening of Faith\" helped to make it one of the most influential and intensively studied texts in the East Asian Mahāyāna tradition. Chinese masters who were heavily influenced by Wonhyo include Fazang, Li Tongxuan, and Chengguan. The Japanese monks Gyonen, Zenshu and Joto of the Kegon school were also influenced by him.\n\nWith his life spanning the end of the Three Kingdoms of Korea and the beginning of Unified Silla, Wonhyo played a vital role in the reception and assimilation of the broad range of doctrinal Buddhist streams that flowed into the Korean peninsula at the time. Wonhyo was most interested in and affected by Buddha-nature, East Asian Yogācāra and Hwaeom thought. However, in his extensive scholarly works, composed as commentaries and essays, he embraced the whole spectrum of the Buddhist teachings which were received in Korea, including such schools as Pure Land Buddhism, East Asian Mādhyamaka and the Tiantai.\n\nWonhyo was born in Amnyang (押梁), nowadays the city of Gyeongsan, North Gyeongsang Province, South Korea. He had a son, Seol Chong, who is considered to be one of the great Confucian scholars of Silla.\n\nWonhyo was famous for singing and dancing in the streets. While the Buddha discouraged such behaviors, his songs and dances were seen as upaya, or skillful means, meant to help save all sentient beings.\n\nHe is thought to have founded Korea's lone riverside temple, Silleuksa, in the late 600s. While Wonhyo was in Bunhwangsa (in modern Guhwang-dong, Gyeongju), he wrote a number of books. For such strong association with Wonhyo, a research center and a shrine named Bogwangjeon hall dedicated to Wonhyo's legacy are located in Bunhwangsa.\n\nHe wrote commentaries on virtually all of the most influential Mahayana scriptures, altogether including over eighty works in over two hundred fascicles. Among his most influential works were the commentaries he wrote on the \"Awakening of Faith\", \"Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\" and \"Vajrasamādhi sūtra\", along with his exposition on the meaning of the two hindrances, the \"ijangui\". These were treated with utmost respect by leading Buddhist scholars in China and Japan, and served to help in placing the \"Awakening of Faith\" as the most influential text in the Korean tradition.\nWonhyo spent the earlier part of his career as a monk. In 661 he and a close friend - Uisang (625–702, founder of the Hwaeom) - were traveling to China where they hoped to study Buddhism further. Somewhere in the region of Baekje, the pair were caught in a heavy downpour and forced to take shelter in what they believed to be an earthen sanctuary. During the night Wonhyo was overcome with thirst, and reaching out grasped what he perceived to be a gourd, and drinking from it was refreshed with a draught of cool, refreshing water. Upon waking the next morning, however, the companions discovered much to their amazement that their shelter was in fact an ancient tomb littered with human skulls, and the vessel from which Wonhyo had drunk was a human skull full of brackish water. Upon seeing this, Wonhyo vomited. Startled by the experience of believing that a gruesome liquid was a refreshing treat, Wonhyo was astonished at the power of the human mind to transform reality. After this \"One Mind\" enlightenment experience, he abandoned his plan to go to China. He left the priesthood and turned to the spreading of the \"Buddhadharma\" as a layman. Because of this aspect of his character, Wonhyo ended up becoming a popular folk hero in Korea. An important result of his combined work with Uisang was the establishment of Hwaeom as the dominant stream of doctrinal thought on the Korean Peninsula.\n\nWonhyo's twenty-three extant works are currently in the process of being translated into English as a joint project between Dongguk University and Stony Brook University. The University of Hawaii Press is publishing them in five volumes.\n\nThe International Taekwon-Do Federation pattern \"Won-Hyo\" is named in Wonhyo's honor. This pattern consists of 28 movements.\n\nThe World Taekwondo Federation has a Hyeong or pattern named Ilyeo for 9th Dan black belt which means the thought of the Buddhist priest of Silla Dynasty, Wonhyo.\n\n"}
{"id": "15431345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15431345", "title": "Yutori education", "text": "Yutori education\n\nIn Japan, primary education is prescribed by a teaching guideline called . Since the 1970s, the Japanese government gradually reduced the amount of class time and the contents given in the guideline, and this tendency is called yutori education. Especially in recent years, this has been a controversial issue.\n\nYutori education may be translated as \"relaxed education\" or \"education free from pressure\".\n\nIn the 1970s, school violence and the collapse of classroom discipline became a big problem in junior high schools. So, the government revised the teaching guideline in 1977. The main purpose was to reduce education stress and to introduce relaxed classes called .\n\nIn 1984, during the time of Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone, the was established as a consultative body. The council recommended that education regard the individual personalities of each student as paramount. Two major revisions of the teaching guidelines in 1989 and 1998 were implemented following this announcement.\n\nIn 1987, declared four basic core principles to improve education in kindergartens, elementary schools, and junior and senior high schools.\n\nUnder these principles, the teaching guideline were revised in 1989. In the lower grades of elementary schools, science and social studies classes were abolished and \"environmental studies\" was introduced. In junior high school, the number of elective classes was increased to further motivate students.\n\nFrom 1992, schools closed on the second Saturday of every month to increase student spare time in accordance with the teaching guidelines. From 1995, schools closed on the fourth Saturday also.\n\nIn 1996, when the 15th was asked about what the Japanese education of the 21st century should be like, it submitted a report suggesting \"the ability to survive\" should be the basic principle of education. \"The ability to survive\" is defined as a principle that tries to keep the balance of intellectual, moral, and physical education.\n\nIn 1998, the teaching guidelines were revised to reflect the council's report. 30% of the curriculum was cut and \"time for integrated study\" in elementary and junior high school was established. It was a drastic change.\n\nThe School Curriculum Council stated its goals in a report.\n\nAround 1999, a decline in the academic abilities of university students became a serious concern. Elementary and secondary education started to be reconsidered. This trend focused criticism on the new teaching guidelines and aroused controversy.\n\nIn 2002, schools were no longer compulsory on Saturdays.\n\nIn 2007, a was created.\n\nMany people who oppose pressure-free education worry that it may lower children's scholastic ability, and also create a widening gap in scholastic ability. Some criticism is based on a misunderstanding of Yutori education.\n\n\n\n\n"}
