{"id": "1092161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1092161", "title": "1977 Fijian constitutional crisis", "text": "1977 Fijian constitutional crisis\n\nFiji's parliamentary election of March 1977 precipitated a constitutional crisis, which was the first major challenge to the country's democratic institutions since independence in 1970.\n\nPolitics in the years before and after independence had been dominated by the conflicting interests of the ethnic Fijian and Indo-Fijian communities. At that time, Indo-Fijians slightly outnumbered ethnic Fijians, but by holding a virtual monopoly of the ethnic Fijian vote and by making significant inroads into the Indo-Fijian electorate (taking almost a quarter of their votes in the election of 1972), \"Ratu Sir\" Kamisese Mara's Alliance Party had maintained its grip on power. A split in the indigenous vote in 1977, however, resulted in a narrow win for the Indo-Fijian-dominated National Federation Party (NFP). Sidiq Koya, the NFP leader, was expected to become Prime Minister.\n\nInstead, the Governor-General, \"Ratu Sir\" George Cakobau, called on Mara to form a caretaker government, pending new elections scheduled for September. The events that led to his decision, and his reasons for it, are still mired in controversy, with different parties involved telling different versions of the situation, and conspiracy theories have abounded. What is known is that a leadership struggle immediately following the election seriously fractured the NFP. It failed to name a Cabinet for three days, and a crisis began to develop. A prominent NFP parliamentarian, Jai Ram Reddy, wondered aloud on national radio whether his party was ready to form a government, and whether it would in fact be able to do so. Ratu Mara claimed in his 1996 autobiography, \"The Pacific Way\", that NFP politicians had approached him and asked him to remain in office, but with an NFP Cabinet; he claimed to have refused.\n\nSome accused Reddy of sabotaging the formation of a government in order to challenge Koya for the leadership of the party, a charge that has never been proven. Other possible traitors within the NFP were also named. Fiji Labour Party leader Mahendra Chaudhry claimed in his 2004 book, \"Children of the Indus\", that parliamentarians Chand Ramrakha and Irene Jai Narayan had betrayed their own leader by telling the Governor-General that not all NFP caucus members would support Koya for Prime Minister. \"There is also some basis to the story that Karam Ramrakha and Irene Jai Narayan had informed Ratu George secretly that Koya did not enjoy the support of all NFP parliamentarians. Regrettably, at the hour of his triumph Koya had been stabbed in the back by his own people,\" he wrote (page 130). Ramrakha, now a lawyer based in Sydney, Australia, sued for defamation, saying that the claim was false and had damaged his reputation.\n\nOthers, both in Fiji and abroad, accused the Governor-General, a high chief in the Fijian chiefly hierarchy, of deliberate bias, and took his usurping of a popular election to preserve the government of his fellow-chief (and distant cousin), Ratu Mara, as an indication that the indigenous Fijian elite would not tolerate an Indo-Fijian-led government. Proponents of this theory point to the coups of 1987 and of 2000, both of which toppled governments dominated or led by Indo-Fijians, as evidence of their belief. Whether this controversial opinion is true or not, few doubt that Cakobau was pleased to be able to reappoint the government dominated by indigenous Fijians.\n\nIn a public statement, Ratu Cakobau defended his actions thus:\n\n\"In the recent general election, the people of Fiji did not give a clear mandate to either of the major political parties. It therefore became the duty of the Governor-General under the Constitution to appoint as Prime Minister the Member of the House of Representatives who appeared to him best able to command the support of the majority of the Members of the House. The Governor-General has not been able to act sooner as it was not until this afternoon that he was informed who had been elected leader of the National Federation Party. The Governor-General, after taking all relevant circumstances into account, has come to the firm conclusion that the person best able to command support of the majority of the Members is the Leader of the Alliance Party, Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara. In compliance with the Constitution and acting in his own deliberate judgment the Governor-General has accordingly appointed Ratu Sir Kamisese as Prime Minister.\"\n\nThe September election called to resolve the impasse resulted in a landslide win for the Fijian Alliance, which remained in power for another decade.\n"}
{"id": "39391303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39391303", "title": "Agreement for the Suppression of the Circulation of Obscene Publications", "text": "Agreement for the Suppression of the Circulation of Obscene Publications\n\nThe Agreement for the Suppression of the Circulation of Obscene Publications is a multilateral anti-pornography treaty that was initially negotiated and concluded in Paris in 1910. It was amended by a 1949 Protocol. As of 2013, the treaty has 57 state parties.\n\nThe treaty was concluded on 4 May 1910 in Paris and was initially entitled the Agreement for the Repression of Obscene Publications. The treaty was initially agreed to by a number of states, including France, the German Empire, Austria-Hungary, the United States, the Russian Empire, and the United Kingdom. Through the treaty, the states agreed to designate a government authority tasked with sharing with the other states information regarding obscenity offences \"where the various acts constituting the offence have taken place in different countries\". The treaty applied to \"obscene writings, designs, pictures or objects\". In 1923, states agreed to criminalise the creation, distribution, and trade of obscene works via the Convention for the Suppression of the Circulation of and Traffic in Obscene Publications.\n\nIn 1948, the United Nations General Assembly agreed to a Protocol which would amend the 1910 treaty. On 4 May 1949 at Lake Success, New York, the Protocol was signed by a number of states. Ultimately, the Protocol was ratified by 35 states, which caused the revised treaty to come into force on 1 March 1950. One of the changes made by the Protocol was the name of the treaty. As of 2013, the 1949 version of the treaty remains in force and has 57 state parties.\n\nThe following states ratified the 1910 treaty:\n"}
{"id": "1712058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1712058", "title": "Amount in controversy", "text": "Amount in controversy\n\nAmount in controversy (sometimes called jurisdictional amount) is a term used in civil procedure to denote the amount at stake in a lawsuit, in particular in connection with a requirement that persons seeking to bring a lawsuit in a particular court must be suing for a certain minimum amount (or below a certain maximum amount) before that court may hear the case.\n\nIn United States federal courts, the term currently applies only to cases brought under diversity jurisdiction, meaning that the court is able to hear the case only because it is between citizens of different states. In such cases, the U.S. Congress has decreed in 28 U.S.C. § 1332(a) that the court may hear such suits only where \"the matter in controversy exceeds the sum or value of $75,000.\" This amount represents a significant increase from earlier years.\n\nCongress first established the amount in controversy requirement when it created diversity jurisdiction in the Judiciary Act of 1789, pursuant to its powers under Article III of the U.S. Constitution, the amount being $500. It was raised to $2,000 in 1887, to $3,000 in 1911, to $10,000 in 1958, to $50,000 in 1988, and finally to the current $75,000 in 1996.\n\nThe use of the word \"exceeds\" in Section 1332 implies that the amount in controversy must be more than $75,000; a case removed from state court to federal court must be remanded back to state court if the amount in controversy is exactly $75,000.00.\n\nCongress did not create a consistent federal question jurisdiction, which allows federal courts to hear any case alleging a violation of the Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States, until 1875, when Congress created the statute which is now found at : \"The district courts shall have original jurisdiction of all civil actions arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States.\" At that time, such cases had the same amount in controversy requirement as the diversity cases. Congress eliminated this requirement in actions against the United States in 1976 and in all federal question cases in 1980.\n\nWhere a single plaintiff has multiple unrelated claims against a single defendant, that plaintiff can \"aggregate\" those claims – that is, add the amounts together – to satisfy the amount in controversy requirement. In cases involving more than one defendant, a plaintiff may aggregate the amount claimed against multiple defendants “only if the defendants are jointly liable.” \"Middle Tennessee News Co., Inc. v. Charnel of Cincinnati, Inc.\", 250 F.3d 1077, 1081 (7th Cir. 2001). However, “if the defendants are severally liable, plaintiff must satisfy the amount in controversy requirement against each individual defendant.” The 5-4 decision in \"Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Allapattah Services, Inc.\", 545 U.S. 546 (2005), held that a federal court has supplemental jurisdiction over claims of other plaintiffs who do not meet the jurisdictional amount for a diversity action, when at least one plaintiff in the action does satisfy the jurisdictional amount.\n\nThe standard for dismissing a complaint for lack of meeting the amount in controversy is a rather high one in federal court. In 1938, Justice Owen Roberts set forth the \"legal-certainty test\", which is still used today:\n\nThe validity of the amount of damages claimed is considered a threshold issue of law for a judge to decide at the commencement of the case. \n\nThe legal certainty test is often heavily litigated in personal injury or wrongful death cases, in the situation where they are removed by a defendant to federal court on the basis of diversity jurisdiction, and then the plaintiff moves to remand to state court. Since the 1970s, many states have prohibited plaintiffs in such cases from demanding a specific amount of money in the ad damnum section of their complaints, because of serious problems with unscrupulous attorneys gaining undue publicity by simply demanding outrageous and unrealistic damage amounts like $1 trillion. Therefore, many such complaints cannot and do not state an amount in controversy on their face, which puts defendants in the awkward position of having to submit evidence to the federal court that plaintiffs \"could\" theoretically recover a sum in excess of $75,000, while simultaneously maintaining that plaintiffs are not entitled to anything at all.\n\nEach state has the power to set its own amount in controversy requirements for its own courts, but every state must offer some outlet for citizens to sue for violations of their rights, even if they are seeking no money. Most states have several levels of trial courts, with different amount-in-controversy requirements which must be met to gain access to higher levels of courts. For example, in the state of Virginia, the lowest level of court, the Virginia General District Court has exclusive jurisdiction to hear cases where the amount in controversy is $4,500 or less, and shares authority with the Virginia Circuit Court to try cases involving sums above $4,500 and up to $25,000. The Virginia Circuit Court, in turn, has exclusive jurisdiction where the amount in controversy is greater than $25,000.\n\nA few states like California have decided that it is more efficient to unify all trial courts so that judges and support staff can be more easily reassigned where needed. However, in California, nearly all lawsuits involving an amount in controversy up to $25,000 are classified as \"limited civil actions,\" which are subject to special simplified procedural rules intended to hold down litigation costs.\n"}
{"id": "4188169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4188169", "title": "Anglo-Saxon charters", "text": "Anglo-Saxon charters\n\nAnglo-Saxon charters are documents from the early medieval period in England, which typically made a grant of land, or recorded a privilege. The earliest surviving charters were drawn up in the 670s: the oldest surviving charters granted land to the Church, but from the eighth century, surviving charters were increasingly used to grant land to lay people.\n\nThe term \"charter\" covers a range of written legal documentation including diplomas, writs and wills. A diploma was a royal charter that granted rights over land or other privileges by the king, whereas a writ was an instruction (or prohibition) by the king which may have contained evidence of rights or privileges. Diplomas were usually written on parchment in Latin, but often contained sections in the vernacular, describing the bounds of estates, which often correspond closely to modern parish boundaries. The writ was authenticated by a seal and gradually replaced the diploma as evidence of land tenure during the late Anglo-Saxon and early Norman periods. Land held by virtue of a charter was known as \"bookland\".\n\nCharters have provided historians with fundamental source material for understanding Anglo-Saxon England, complementing the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" and other literary sources. They are catalogued in Peter Sawyer's \"Annotated List\" and are usually referred to by their Sawyer number (e.g. S407).\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon charter can take many forms: it can be a lease (often presented as a chirograph), a will, an agreement, a writ or, most commonly, a grant of land. Our picture is skewed towards those that regard land, particularly in the earlier period (though it must also be admitted that the emergence of wills and chirorographs also owed much to later development). Land charters can further be subdivided into \"royal charters\", or diplomas, and \"private charters\" (donations by figures other than the king).\n\nOver a thousand Anglo-Saxon charters are extant today, as a result of being maintained in the archives of religious houses. These preserved their charters so as to record their right to land. The oldest extant original charter, now in Canterbury Cathedral archive, was issued in 679 by King Hlothhere of Kent granting land to the Reculver Abbey. Some surviving charters are later copies, which sometimes include interpolations.\n\nAnglo-Saxon charters were sometimes used in legal disputes, and the recording of the contents of a charter within a legal document has ensured the survival of text when the original charter has been lost. Overall, some two hundred charters exist in the original form, whilst others are post-Conquest copies, that were often made by the compilers of cartularies (collections of title-deeds) or by early modern antiquaries. The earliest cartularies containing copies of Anglo-Saxon charters come from Worcester, early-11th-century \"Liber Wigorniensis\" and \"Hemming's Cartulary\" of a century later; a much later example, \"Wilton Cartulary\", compiled in the mid-13th century at Wilton Abbey, still includes a significant amount of Anglo-Saxon material.\n\nThe importance of charters in legal disputes over land as evidence of land tenure, gave rise to numerous charter forgeries, sometimes by those same monastic houses in whose archives they were preserved. The primary motivation for forging charters was to provide evidence of rights to land. Often forging was focussed on providing written evidence for the holdings recorded as belonging to a religious house in the \"Domesday Book\". It is important when studying charters to establish their authenticity. The study of charters to determine authenticity gave rise to diplomatics – the science of ancient documents.\n\nAnglo-Saxon charters are catalogued in Peter Sawyer's 'Annotated List', and are usually referred to by their Sawyer number (e.g. S407).\n\nThe three most common forms of Anglo-Saxon charter are diplomas, writs and wills.\n\nThe largest number of surviving charters are diplomas, or royal charters, that granted privileges and rights, usually over land. The typical diploma had three sections: \"protocol\", \"corpus\", and \"eschatocol\". The protocol opened the charter by invoking God and enumerating the pious considerations for the King's act (proem). The corpus was usually in Latin and named the beneficiary, recorded the grant or transfer (dispositive clause), reserved common burdens (reservation clause) and invoked the wrath of God on anyone who failed to observe it (anathema or sanction). The corpus' final section, which was often in Old English, described the boundaries of the land (boundary clause). The eschatocol was composed of a dating clause and witness-list, which usually included powerful lay and ecclesiastical members of the king's court.\n\nMuch of the language of the diploma was explicitly religious - that a grant was made for the benefit of the grantor's soul or that anyone breaking the charter would be excommunicated. Charters typically opened by situating themselves firmly within the Christian order, with a pictorial (cross, chrismon or alpha-omega) and a verbal invocation to God. Many early charters were granted in anticipation of the founding of a monastery. The document served a largely secular purpose — to document the legal possession of land and to free that land from certain duties that would otherwise be attached to it.\n\nThe second most common form of Anglo-Saxon charter, although far fewer in number than the diploma, is the royal writ. These differed from the diploma in both form and function. A writ was an instruction from the king to a named official or group of recipients. It started with a greeting and was authenticated by a royal seal. The writ did not require witnesses and was often written in Old English. Under the Normans, the use of writs was extended to cover many other aspects of royal business and was written in Latin. Florence Harmer provided the text (and translation when written in Old English) of 120 pre-Conquest royal writs.\n\nAnglo-Saxon wills were intended to make gifts of property (including land) after the writer's death, but they were not wills in the modern sense.\n\nWills are rarer than writs. The first dedicated study, \"Anglo-Saxon Wills\" by Dorothy Whitelock was able to identify 39 documents. The number grew to 55 with publication of another 16 among the \"Anglo-Saxon Charters\" by Agnes Jane Robertson in 1939. Since 1939, contributions to the list were few and far between; in her 2011 \"Wills and Will-making in Anglo-Saxon England\" Linda Tollerton published the most up-to-date corpus, with 68 examples in total. The surviving documents are very unevenly distributed both in time and space: from the 9th century, for example, only 9 wills are known, and 6 of them are in Canterbury. Not a single will from any period is known from further North than Burton upon Trent in Staffordshire. Furthermore, only 22 wills can be found in manuscripts written before 1066; originals are even rarer, as some, like those of Alfred the Great or Wulfric Spot, are known to be pre-Conquest copies, while still other may in fact be mere extracts or ancient forgeries.\n\nOnly two wills of kings have been preserved, those of Alfred and Eadred, both in later copies. Anglo-Saxon women whose wills survive include Wynflæd (mother of Ælfgifu of Shaftesbury and grandmother of Kings Eadwig and Edgar), King Edmund I's second wife Æthelflæd and her sister Ælfflæd.\n\nA typical royal diploma had a clause describing the boundaries of the territory that is the subject of the charter. There are also boundary descriptions in a number of leases and two wills. In the earliest examples, these boundary descriptions are short, in Latin and with few boundary points. In time, the descriptions became longer, more detailed and written in Old English. By the end of the 9th century, all boundary clauses were written in Old English. Many charters, particularly those that have survived in later copies, do not have boundary clauses. In some instances, space has been left for a boundary clause that was never copied. A few boundary descriptions survive that do not appear to be related to any surviving charter.\n\nThe content of these boundary descriptions varied, but in many instances these descriptions revealed the Anglo-Saxons' ideas about their landscape.\n\nCharters have provided fundamental source material for understanding Anglo-Saxon England that complements the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" and other literary sources. They are often used by historians as sources for the history of Anglo-Saxon England. It was frequently kings who gave land in charters. By seeing what land was awarded, it is possible to see the extent of a king's control and how he exercised his power. In 846, Æthelwulf of Wessex granted land in Devon by charter, perhaps dividing the spoils from this recently conquered territory among his men.\n\nCharters give lists of persons that attested the document and so it is possible to see who was present at the king's court. The very detailed diplomas drafted by the scribe known as \"Æthelstan A\" show that several Welsh kings, including Hywel Dda, attended the court of Æthelstan in the late 920s and the 930s. A person's absence from court can be equally revealing: Wulfstan I, Archbishop of York from 931 to 956, failed to attest any royal charters between 936 and 941, during which time the Battle of Brunanburh was fought between Æthelstan and an alliance of the Hiberno-Norse king of Dublin, Olaf Guthfrithson and the Scottish king, Constantine. Wulfstan was rather independently-minded and his absence from the West Saxon court can be linked with possible participation at Brunanburh and his later activity as a kind of kingmaker in York. It is also possible to trace a man's career at court through his position in the witness list, as in the case of Eadric Streona at the court of Æthelred 'the Unready' in the early 11th century.\n\nBurdens that were due by landowners to the king, such as providing soldiers, resources and man-power, were sometimes relieved in charters. This gives historians the opportunity to examine aspects of Anglo-Saxon society.\n\nA joint committee of the British Academy and the Royal Historical Society was set up in 1966 to oversee a definitive edition of the entire corpus of Anglo-Saxon charters. The edition is to be published in approximately thirty volumes. The late Professor Nicholas Brooks was chairman of the committee in charge; he has been replaced by Professor Simon Keynes. The following volumes have been published as of 2016:\n\nSupplementary volume\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27088438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27088438", "title": "Arizona SB 1070", "text": "Arizona SB 1070\n\nThe Support Our Law Enforcement and Safe Neighborhoods Act (introduced as Arizona Senate Bill 1070 and thus often referred to simply as Arizona SB 1070) is a 2010 legislative Act in the U.S. state of Arizona that at the time of passage in 2010 was the broadest and strictest anti-illegal immigration measure passed in the United States. It has received national and international attention and has spurred considerable controversy.\n\nU.S. Federal law requires aliens older than 18 to possess proper identification at all times; violation of this requirement is a federal misdemeanor crime. The Arizona act additionally made it a state misdemeanor crime for an alien to be in Arizona without carrying the required documents, required that state law enforcement officers attempt to determine an individual's immigration status during a \"lawful stop, detention or arrest\", when there is reasonable suspicion that the individual is an illegal immigrant. The law barred state or local officials or agencies from restricting enforcement of federal immigration laws, and imposed penalties on those sheltering, hiring and transporting unregistered aliens. The paragraph on intent in the legislation says it embodies an \"attrition through enforcement\" doctrine.\n\nCritics of the legislation say it encourages racial profiling, while supporters say the law prohibits the use of race as the sole basis for investigating immigration status. The law was modified by Arizona House Bill 2162 within a week of its signing with the goal of addressing some of these concerns. There have been protests in opposition to the law in over 70 U.S. cities, including boycotts and calls for boycotts of Arizona.\n\nThe Act was signed into law by Governor Jan Brewer on April 23, 2010. It was scheduled to go into effect on July 29, 2010, ninety days after the end of the legislative session. Legal challenges over its constitutionality and compliance with civil rights law were filed, including one by the United States Department of Justice, that also asked for an injunction against enforcement of the law. The day before the law was to take effect, a federal judge issued a preliminary injunction that blocked the law's most controversial provisions. In June 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled on the case \"Arizona v. United States\", upholding the provision requiring immigration status checks during law enforcement stops but striking down three other provisions as violations of the Supremacy Clause of the United States Constitution.\n\nU.S. federal law requires aliens 14 years old or older who are in the country for longer than 30 days to register with the U.S. government and have registration documents in their possession at all times. The Act makes it a state misdemeanor crime for an illegal alien to be in Arizona without carrying the required documents and obligates police to make an attempt, when practicable during a \"lawful stop, detention or arrest\", to determine a person's immigration status if there is reasonable suspicion that the person is an illegal alien. Any person arrested cannot be released without confirmation of the person's legal immigration status by the federal government pursuant to § 1373(c) of Title 8 of the United States Code. A first offense carries a fine of up to $100, plus court costs, and up to 20 days in jail; subsequent offenses can result in up to 30 days in jail (SB 1070 required a \"minimum\" fine of $500 for a first violation, and for a second violation a minimum $1,000 fine and a maximum jail sentence of 6 months). A person is \"presumed to not be an immigrant who is unlawfully present in the United States\" if he or she presents any of the following four forms of identification: a valid Arizona driver license; a valid Arizona nonoperating identification license; a valid tribal enrollment card or other tribal identification; or any valid federal, state, or local government-issued identification, if the issuer requires proof of legal presence in the United States as a condition of issuance.\n\nThe Act also prohibits state, county, and local officials from limiting or restricting \"the enforcement of federal immigration laws to less than the full extent permitted by federal law\" and provides that any legal Arizona resident can sue the agencies or officials in question to compel such full enforcement. If the person who brings suit prevails, that person may be entitled to reimbursement of court costs and reasonable attorney fees.\n\nIn addition, the Act makes it a crime for anyone, regardless of citizenship or immigration status, to hire or to be hired from a vehicle which \"blocks or impedes the normal movement of traffic.\" Vehicles used in such manner are subject to mandatory immobilization or impoundment. Moreover, for a person in violation of a criminal law, it is an additional offense to transport an illegal alien \"in furtherance\" of the illegal alien's unauthorized presence in the U.S., to \"conceal, harbor or shield\" an illegal alien, or to encourage or induce an illegal alien to immigrate to the state, if the person \"knows or recklessly disregards the fact\" that the alien is in the U.S. without authorization or that immigration would be illegal. Violation is a class 1 misdemeanor if fewer than ten illegal aliens are involved, and a class 6 felony if ten or more are involved. The offender is subject to a fine of at least $1,000 for each illegal alien involved. The transportation provision includes exceptions for child protective services workers, and ambulance attendants and emergency medical technicians.\n\nOn April 30, 2010, the Arizona legislature passed and Governor Brewer signed, House Bill 2162, which modified the Act that had been signed a week earlier, with the amended text stating that \"prosecutors would not investigate complaints based on race, color or national origin.\" The new text also states that police may only investigate immigration status incident to a \"lawful stop, detention, or arrest\", lowers the original fine from a minimum of $500(?) to a maximum of $100, and changes incarceration limits for first-time offenders from 6 months to 20 days.\n\nArizona is the first state to enact such far-reaching legislation. Prior law in Arizona, like the law in most other states, does not mandate that law enforcement personnel ask about the immigration status of those they encounter. Many police departments discourage such inquiries to avoid deterring immigrants from reporting crimes and cooperating in other investigations.\n\nArizona had an estimated 460,000 illegal aliens in April 2010, a figure that had increased fivefold since 1990. As the state with the most illegal crossings of the Mexico – United States border, its remote and dangerous deserts are the unlawful entry point for thousands of illegal Mexicans and Central Americans. By the late 1990s, Tucson Border Patrol Sector had become the location for the most number of arrests by the United States Border Patrol.\n\nWhether illegal aliens commit a disproportionate number of crimes is uncertain, with different authorities and academics claiming that the rate for this group was the same, greater, or less than that of the overall population. There was also anxiety that the Mexican Drug War, which had caused thousands of deaths, would spill over into the U.S. Moreover, by the late 2000s (decade) Phoenix was seeing an average of one kidnapping per day, earning it the reputation as America's worst city in that regard.\n\nArizona has a history of passing restrictions on illegal immigration, including legislation in 2007 that imposed heavy sanctions on employers hiring illegal aliens. Measures similar to SB 1070 had been passed by the legislature in 2006 and 2008, only to be vetoed by Democratic Governor Janet Napolitano. She was subsequently appointed as Secretary of Homeland Security in the Obama administration and was replaced by Republican Secretary of State of Arizona Jan Brewer. There is a similar history of referenda, such as the Arizona Proposition 200 (2004) that have sought to restrict illegal aliens' use of social services. The 'attrition through enforcement' doctrine is one that think tanks such as the Center for Immigration Studies have been supporting for several years.\nImpetus for SB 1070 is attributed to shifting demographics leading to a larger Hispanic population, increased drugs- and human smuggling-related violence in Mexico and Arizona, and a struggling state economy and economic anxiety during the late-2000s recession. State residents were also frustrated by the lack of federal progress on immigration, which they viewed as even more disappointing given that Napolitano was in the administration.\n\nThe major sponsor of, and legislative force behind, the bill was State Senator Russell Pearce, who had long been one of Arizona's most vocal opponents of illegal aliens and who had successfully pushed through several prior pieces of tough legislation against those he termed \"invaders on the American sovereignty\". Much of the drafting of the bill was done by Kris Kobach, a professor at the University of Missouri–Kansas City School of Law and a figure long associated with the Federation for American Immigration Reform who had written immigration-related bills in many other parts of the country. Pearce and Kobach had worked together on past legislative efforts regarding immigration, and Pearce contacted Kobach when he was ready to pursue the idea of the state enforcing federal immigration laws. A December 2009 meeting of the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) in Washington, D.C., resulted in that body drafting model legislation that embodied the ideas that Pearce presented.\n\nThe proposed bill reached the Arizona legislature in January 2010 and gained 36 cosponsors. The Arizona State Senate approved an early version of the bill in February 2010. Saying, \"Enough is enough,\" Pearce stated figuratively that this new bill would remove handcuffs from law enforcement and place them on violent offenders.\n\nOn March 27, 2010, 58-year-old Robert Krentz and his dog were shot and killed while Krentz was doing fence work on his large ranch roughly from the Mexican border. This incident gave a tangible public face to fears about immigration-related crime. Arizona police were not able to name a murder suspect but traced a set of footprints from the crime scene south towards the border. The resulting speculation that the killer was an illegal alien increased support among the public for the measure. For a while there was talk of naming the law after Krentz. Some state legislators (both for and against the law) believe, however, that the impact of the Krentz killing has been overstated as a factor in the bill's passing.\n\nThe bill, with a number of changes made to it, passed the Arizona House of Representatives on April 13 by a 35–21 party-line vote. The revised measure then passed the State Senate on April 19 by a 17–11 vote that also closely followed party lines, with all but one Republican voting for the bill, ten Democrats voting against the bill, and two Democrats not voting.\n\nOnce a bill passes, the governor has five days to make a decision to sign, veto, or let it pass unsigned. The question then became whether or not Governor Brewer would sign the bill into law, as she had remained silent on the measure while weighing the consequences. Immigration had not been a prime focus of her political career up to this point, although as secretary of state she had supported Arizona Proposition 200 (2004). As governor, she had made another push for Arizona Proposition 100 (2010), a one percent increase in the state sales tax to prevent cuts in education, health and human services, and public safety, despite opposition from within her own party. These preceding political moves, along with an upcoming tough Republican Party primary in the 2010 Arizona gubernatorial election from other conservative opponents supporting the bill, were all considered major factors in her decision. During the bill's development, her staff had gone over its language line by line with State Senator Pearce, but she had also said she had concerns about several of its provisions. The Mexican Senate urged the governor to veto the measure and the Mexican Embassy to the U.S. raised concerns about potential racial profiling that may result. Citizen messages to Brewer, however, were 3–1 in favor of the law. A Rasmussen Reports poll taken between the House and Senate votes showed wide support for the bill among likely voters in the state, with 70 percent in favor and 23 percent opposed. Of those same voters, 53 percent were at least somewhat concerned that actions taken due to the measures in the bill would violate the civil rights of some American citizens. Brewer's staff said that she was considering the legal issues, the impact on the state's business, and the feelings of the citizens in coming to her decision. They added that \"she agonizes over these things,\" and the governor also prayed over the matter. Brewer's political allies said her decision would cause her political trouble no matter which way she decided. Most observers expected that in the end, she would sign the bill, and on April 23 she did.\n\nDuring the time of the signing, there were over a thousand people at the Arizona State Capitol both in support of and opposition to the bill, and some minor civil unrest occurred. Against concerns that the measure would promote racial profiling, Brewer stated that no such behavior would be tolerated: \"We must enforce the law evenly, and without regard to skin color, accent or social status.\" She vowed to ensure that police forces had proper training relative to the law and civil rights, and on the same day as the signing issued an executive order requiring additional training for all officers on how to implement SB 1070 without engaging in racial profiling. Ultimately, she said, \"We have to trust our law enforcement.\" (The training materials developed by the Arizona Peace Officer Standards and Training Board were released in June 2010.)\n\nSponsor Pearce called the bill's signing \"a good day for America.\"\nNews of the law and the debate around immigration gained national attention, especially on cable news television channels, where topics that attract strong opinions are often given extra airtime.\nNevertheless, those voting on the bill were later surprised by the reaction it gained. State Representative Michele Reagan reflected three months later: \"The majority of us who voted yes on that bill, myself included, did not expect or encourage an outcry from the public. The majority of us just voted for it because we thought we could try to fix the problem. Nobody envisioned boycotts. Nobody anticipated the emotion, the prayer vigils. The attitude was: These are the laws, let's start following them.\" State Representative Kyrsten Sinema, the assistant House minority leader who tried to stop the bill and voted against it, similarly reflected: \"I knew it would be bad, but no one thought it would be this big. No one.\"\n\nThe immigration issue also gained center stage in the re-election campaign of Republican U.S. Senator from Arizona John McCain, who had been a past champion of federal immigration reform measures such as the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007. Also faced with a primary battle – against the more conservative J. D. Hayworth, who had made measures against illegal immigration a central point of his candidacy – McCain supported SB 1070 only hours before its passage in the State Senate. McCain subsequently became a vocal defender of the law, saying that the state had been forced to take action given the federal government's inability to control the border.\n\nIn September 2014, U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton ordered the primary sponsor of Arizona’s 2010 immigration law to comply with a subpoena calling for him to turn over his emails and documents about the contentious statute. Challengers of the bill want to determine from these whether there was a discriminatory intent in composing the statute.\n\nA Rasmussen Reports poll done nationally around the time of the signing indicated that 60 percent of Americans were in favor of and 31 percent opposed to legislation that allows local police to \"stop and verify the immigration status of anyone they suspect of being an illegal immigrant.\" The same poll also indicated that 58 percent are at least somewhat concerned that \"efforts to identify and deport illegal immigrants will also end up violating the civil rights of some U.S. citizens.\" A national Gallup Poll found that more than three-quarters of Americans had heard about the law, and of those who had, 51 percent were in favor of it against 39 percent opposed. An Angus Reid Public Opinion poll indicated that 71 percent of Americans said they supported the notion of requiring their own police to determine people's status if there was \"reasonable suspicion\" the people were illegal immigrants, and arresting those people if they could not prove they were legally in the United States. A nationwide New York Times/CBS News poll found similar results to the others, with 51 percent of respondents saying the Arizona law was \"about right\" in its approach to the problem of illegal immigration, 36 percent saying it went too far, and 9 percent saying it did not go far enough. Another CBS News poll, conducted a month after the signing, showed 52 percent seeing the law as about right, 28 percent thinking it goes too far, and 17 percent thinking it does not go far enough. A 57 percent majority thought that the federal government should be responsible for determining immigration law. A national Fox News poll found that 61 percent of respondents thought Arizona was right to take action itself rather than wait for federal action, and 64 percent thought the Obama administration should wait and see how the law works in practice rather than trying to stop it right away. Experts caution that in general, polling has difficulty reflecting complex immigration issues and law.\n\nAnother Rasmussen poll, done statewide after several days of heavy news coverage about the controversial law and its signing, found a large majority of Arizonans still supported it, by a 64 percent to 30 percent margin. Rasmussen also found that Brewer's approval ratings as governor had shot up, going from 40 percent of likely voters before the signing to 56 percent after, and that her margin over prospective Democratic gubernatorial opponent, State Attorney General Terry Goddard (who opposes the law) had widened. A poll done by Arizona State University researchers found that 81 percent of registered Latino voters in the state opposed SB 1070.\n\nIn the United States, supporters and opponents of the bill have roughly followed party lines, with most Democrats opposing the bill and most Republicans supporting it.\n\nThe bill was criticized by President Barack Obama who called it \"misguided\" and said it would \"undermine basic notions of fairness that we cherish as Americans, as well as the trust between police and our communities that is so crucial to keeping us safe.\" Obama did later note that the HB 2162 modification had stipulated that the law not be applied in a discriminatory fashion, but the president said there was still the possibility of suspected illegal immigrants \"being harassed and arrested\". He repeatedly called for federal immigration reform legislation to forestall such actions among the states and as the only long-term solution to the problem of illegal immigration. Governor Brewer and President Obama met at the White House in early June 2010 to discuss immigration and border security issues in the wake of SB 1070; the meeting was termed pleasant, but brought about little change in the participants' stances.\n\nSecretary of Homeland Security and former Arizona governor Janet Napolitano testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee that she had \"deep concerns\" about the law and that it would divert necessary law enforcement resources from combating violent criminals. (As governor, Napolitano had consistently vetoed similar legislation throughout her term.) U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said the federal government was considering several options, including a court challenge based on the law leading to possible civil rights violations. Michael Posner, the Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, brought up the law in discussions with a Chinese delegation to illustrate human rights areas the U.S. needed to improve on. This led McCain and fellow senator from Arizona Jon Kyl to strongly object to any possibly implied comparison of the law to human rights abuses in China. Senior Democratic U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York and Mayor of New York City Michael Bloomberg have criticized the law, with Bloomberg stating that it sends exactly the wrong message to international companies and travelers.\n\nIn testimony before the Senate Homeland Security Committee, McCain drew out that Napolitano had made her remarks before having actually read the law. Holder also acknowledged that he had not read the statute. The admissions by the two cabinet secretaries that they had not yet read SB 1070 became an enduring criticism of the reaction against the law. \nFormer Alaska governor and vice-presidential candidate Sarah Palin accused the party in power of being willing to \"criticize bills (and divide the country with ensuing rhetoric) without actually reading them.\" Governor Brewer's election campaign issued a video featuring a frog hand puppet that sang \"reading helps you know what you're talkin' 'bout\" and urged viewers to fully read the law. In reaction to the question, President Obama told a group of Republican senators that he had in fact read the law.\n\nDemocrat Linda Sánchez, U.S. Representative from California's 39th congressional district, has claimed that white supremacy groups are in part to blame for the law's passage, saying, \"There's a concerted effort behind promoting these kinds of laws on a state-by-state basis by people who have ties to white supremacy groups. It's been documented. It's not mainstream politics.\" Republican Representative Gary Miller, from California's 42nd congressional district, called her remarks \"an outrageous accusation [and a] red herring. [She's] trying to change the debate from what the law says.\" Sánchez' district is in Los Angeles County and Miller's district is in both Los Angeles County and neighboring Orange County.\n\nThe law has been popular among the Republican Party base electorate; however, several Republicans have opposed aspects of the measure, mostly from those who have represented heavily Hispanic states. These include former Governor of Florida Jeb Bush, former Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives and campaigning U.S. Senate candidate Marco Rubio, and former George W. Bush chief political strategist Karl Rove. Some analysts have stated that Republican support for the law gives short-term political benefits by energizing their base and independents, but longer term carries the potential of alienating the growing Hispanic population from the party. The issue played a role in several Republican primary contests during the 2010 congressional election season.\n\nOne Arizona Democrat who defended some of the motivation behind the bill was Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, who said her constituents were \"sick and tired\" of the federal government failing to protect the border, that the current situation was \"completely unacceptable\", and that the legislation was a \"clear calling that the federal government needs to do a better job\". However, she stopped short of supporting the law itself, saying it \"does nothing to secure our border\" and that it \"stands in direct contradiction to our past and, as a result, threatens our future.\" Her opposition to the law became one of the issues in her 2010 re-election campaign, in which she narrowly prevailed over her Republican opponent, who supported it.\n\nU.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton included the dispute over SB 1070 in an August 2010 report to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, as an example to other countries of how fractious issues can be resolved under the rule of law. Governor Brewer demanded that the reference to the law be removed from the report, seeing its inclusion as implying that the law was a violation of human rights and saying that any notion of submitting U.S. laws to U.N. review was \"internationalism run amok\".\n\nMexican President Felipe Calderón's office said that \"the Mexican government condemns the approval of the law [and] the criminalization of migration.\" President Calderón also characterized the new law as a \"violation of human rights\". Calderón repeated his criticism during a subsequent state visit to the White House.\n\nThe measure was also strongly criticized by Mexican health minister José Ángel Córdova, former education minister Josefina Vázquez Mota, and Governor of Baja California José Guadalupe Osuna Millán, with Osuna saying it \"could disrupt the indispensable economic, political and cultural exchanges of the entire border region.\" The Mexican Foreign Ministry issued a travel advisory for its citizens visiting Arizona, saying \"It must be assumed that every Mexican citizen may be harassed and questioned without further cause at any time.\"\n\nIn response to these comments, Chris Hawley of \"USA Today\" said that \"Mexico has a law that is no different from Arizona's\", referring to legislation which gives local police forces the power to check documents of people suspected of being in the country illegally. Immigration and human rights activists have also noted that Mexican authorities frequently engage in racial profiling, harassment, and shakedowns against migrants from Central America.\n\nThe law imperiled the 28th annual, binational Border Governors Conference, scheduled to be held in Phoenix in September 2010 and to be hosted by Governor Brewer. The governors of the six Mexican states belonging to the conference vowed to boycott it in protest of the law, saying SB 1070 is \"based on ethnic and cultural prejudice contrary to fundamental rights,\" and Brewer said in response that she was canceling the gathering. Governors Bill Richardson of New Mexico and Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, U.S. border governors who oppose the law, supported moving the conference to another state and going forward with it, and it was subsequently held in Santa Fe, New Mexico without Brewer attending.\n\nArizona's law enforcement groups have been split on the bill, with statewide rank-and-file police officer groups generally supporting it and police chief associations opposing it.\n\nThe Arizona Association of Chiefs of Police criticized the legislation, calling the provisions of the bill \"problematic\" and expressing that it will negatively affect the ability of law enforcement agencies across the state to fulfill their many responsibilities in a timely manner. Additionally, some officers have repeated the past concern that illegal immigrants may come to fear the police and not contact them in situations of emergency or in instances where they have valuable knowledge of a crime. However, the Phoenix Law Enforcement Association, which represents the city's police officers, has supported the legislation and lobbied aggressively for its passage. Officers supporting the measure say they have many indicators other than race they can use to determine whether someone may be an illegal immigrant, such as absent identification or conflicting statements made.\n\nThe measure was hailed by Joe Arpaio, Sheriff of Maricopa County, Arizona – known for his tough crackdowns on illegal immigration within his own jurisdiction – who hoped the measure would cause the federal action to seal the border. Arpaio said, \"I think they'll be afraid that other states will follow this new law that's now been passed.\"\n\nActivists within the church were present on both sides of the immigration debate, and both proponents and opponents of the law appealed to religious arguments for support.\n\nState Senator Pearce, a devout member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) which has a substantial population in Arizona, frequently said that his efforts to push forward this legislation was based on that church's 13 Articles of Faith, one of which instructs in obeying the law. This association caused a backlash against the LDS Church and threatened its proselytizing efforts among the area's Hispanic population. The church emphasized that it took no position on the law or immigration in general and that Pearce did not speak for it. It later endorsed the Utah Compact on immigration and in the following year, took an official position on the issue which opposed Pearce's approach to immigration, saying, \"The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is concerned that any state legislation that only contains enforcement provisions is likely to fall short of the high moral standard of treating each other as children of God. The Church supports an approach where illegal immigrants are allowed to square themselves with the law and continue to work without this necessarily leading to citizenship.\"\n\nThe U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops denounced the law, characterizing it as draconian and saying it \"could lead to the wrongful questioning and arrest of U.S. citizens.\" The National Council of Churches also criticized the law, saying that it ran counter to centuries of biblical teachings regarding justice and neighborliness.\n\nOther members of the Christian clergy differed on the law. United Methodist Church Bishop Minerva G. Carcaño of Arizona's Desert Southwest Conference opposed it as \"unwise, short sighted and mean spirited\" and led a mission of prominent religious figures to Washington to lobby for comprehensive immigration reform. But others stressed the Biblical command to follow laws. While there was a perception that most Christian groups opposed the law, Mark Tooley of the Institute on Religion and Democracy said that immigration was a political issue that \"Christians across the spectrum can disagree about\" and that liberal churches were simply more outspoken on this matter.\n\nThe National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials said the legislation was \"an unconstitutional and costly measure that will violate the civil rights of all Arizonans.\" Mayor Chris Coleman of Saint Paul, Minnesota, labeled it as \"draconian\" as did Democratic Texas House of Representatives member Garnet Coleman. Edwin Kneedler, the U.S. Deputy Solicitor General, also criticized the legislation for its potential infringement on the civil liberties of Arizona's citizens and lawful permanent residents.\n\nProponents with the law have rejected such criticism, and argued that the law was reasonable, limited, and carefully crafted. Stewart Baker, a former Homeland Security official in the George W. Bush administration, said, \"The coverage of this law and the text of the law are a little hard to square. There's nothing in the law that requires cities to stop people without cause, or encourages racial or ethnic profiling by itself.\"\n\nRepublican member with the Arizona House of Representatives Steve Montenegro supported the law, saying that \"This bill has nothing to do with race or profiling. It has to do with the law. We are seeing a lot of crime here in Arizona because of the open borders that we have.\" Montenegro, who legally immigrated to the U.S. from El Salvador with his family when he was four, stated, \"I am saying if you here illegally, get in line, come in the right way.\"\n\nAs one of the main drafters of the law, Kobach has stated that the way the law has been written makes any form of racial profiling illegal. In particular, Kobach references the phrase in the law that directly states that officers \"may not solely consider race, color, or national origin.\" Kobach also disagrees that the \"reasonable suspicion\" clause of the bill specifically allows for racial profiling, replying that the term \"reasonable suspicion\" has been used in other laws prior and therefore has \"legal precedent\".\n\nHowever, there are ongoing arguments in legal journal articles that racial profiling does exist and threatens human security, particularly community security of the Mexicans living in the United States. India Williams argues that the Border Patrol is very likely to stop anyone if a suspect resembles \"Mexican appearance\" and states that such generalization of unchangeable physical features threatens the culture and the heritage of the ethnic group. Andrea Nill argues that it is only a small portion of Mexicans and Latinos that are illegal immigrants, but there is a demonization and illogical discrimination of Latino community by giving less respect, rights, and freedoms, whereas white American citizens will never have to worry about being stopped by the police due to their skin color.\n\nSome Latino leaders compared the law to Apartheid in South Africa or the Japanese American internment during World War II. The law's aspect that officers may question the immigration status of those they suspect are in the country illegally became characterized in some quarters as the \"show me your papers\" or \"your papers, please\" provision. This echoed a common trope regarding Germans in World War II films. Such an association was explicitly made by Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky of Illinois. Congressman Jared Polis of Colorado and Los Angeles Councilwoman Janice Hahn also said the law's requirement to carry papers all the time was reminiscent of the anti-Jewish legislation in prewar Nazi Germany and feared that Arizona was headed towards becoming a police state. Cardinal Roger Mahony of Los Angeles said, \"I can't imagine Arizonans now reverting to German Nazi and Russian Communist techniques whereby people are required to turn one another in to the authorities on any suspicion of documentation.\" The Anti-Defamation League called for an end to the comparisons with Nazi Germany, saying that no matter how odious or unconstitutional the Arizona law might be, it did not compare to the role that Nazi identity cards played in what eventually became the extermination of European Jews.\n\nIn its final form, HB 2162 limits the use of race. It states: \"A law enforcement official or agency of this state or a county, city, town or other political subdivision of this state may not consider race, color or national origin in implementing the requirements of this subsection except to the extent permitted by the United States or Arizona Constitution.\" The U.S. and Arizona supreme courts have held that race may be considered in enforcing immigration law. In \"United States v. Brignoni-Ponce\", the U.S. Supreme Court found: “The likelihood that any given person of Mexican ancestry is an alien is high enough to make Mexican appearance a relevant factor.” The Arizona Supreme Court agrees that “enforcement of immigration laws often involves a relevant consideration of ethnic factors.” Both decisions say that race alone, however, is an insufficient basis to stop or arrest.\n\nThousands of people staged protests in state capital Phoenix over the law around the time of its signing, and a pro-immigrant activist called the measure \"racist\". Passage of the HB 2162 modifications to the law, although intended to address some of the criticisms of it, did little to change the minds of the law's opponents.\n\nTens of thousands of people demonstrated against the law in over 70 U.S. cities on May 1, 2010, a day traditionally used around the world to assert workers' rights. A rally in Los Angeles, attended by Cardinal Mahoney, attracted between 50,000 and 60,000 people, with protesters waving Mexican flags and chanting \"Sí se puede\". The city had become the national epicenter of protests against the Arizona law. Around 25,000 people were at a protest in Dallas, and more than 5,000 were in Chicago and Milwaukee, while rallies in other cities generally attracted around a thousand people or so. Democratic U.S. Congressman from Illinois Luis Gutiérrez was part of a 35-person group arrested in front of the White House in a planned act of civil disobedience that was also urging President Obama to push for comprehensive immigration reform. There and in some other locations, demonstrators expressed frustration with what they saw as the administration's lack of action on immigration reform, with signs holding messages such as \"Hey Obama! Don't deport my mama.\"\n\nProtests both for and against the Act took place over Memorial Day Weekend in Phoenix and commanded thousands of people. Those opposing it, mostly consisting of Latinos, marched five miles to the State Capitol in high heat, while those supporting it met in a stadium in an event arranged by elements of the Tea Party movement.\n\nProtests against the law extended to the arts and sports world as well. Colombian pop singer Shakira came to Phoenix and gave a joint press conference against the bill with Mayor of Phoenix Phil Gordon. Linda Ronstadt, of part Mexican descent and raised in Arizona, also appeared in Phoenix and said, \"Mexican-Americans are not going to take this lying down.\" A concert of May 16 in Mexico City's Zócalo, called \"Prepa Si Youth For Dignity: We Are All Arizona\", drew some 85,000 people to hear Molotov, Jaguares, and Maldita Vecindad headline a seven-hour show in protest against the law.\n\nThe Major League Baseball Players Association, of whose members one quarter are born outside the U.S., said that the law \"could have a negative impact on hundreds of major league players,\" especially since many teams come to Arizona for spring training, and called for it to be \"repealed or modified promptly.\" A Major League Baseball game at Wrigley Field where the Arizona Diamondbacks were visiting the Chicago Cubs saw demonstrators protesting the law. Protesters focused on the Diamondbacks because owner Ken Kendrick had been a prominent fundraiser in Republican causes, but he in fact opposed the law. The Phoenix Suns of the National Basketball Association wore their \"Los Suns\" uniforms normally used for the league's \"Noche Latina\" program for their May 5, 2010 (Cinco de Mayo) playoff game against the San Antonio Spurs to show their support for Arizona's Latino community and to voice disapproval of the immigration law. The Suns' political action, rare in American team sports, created a firestorm and drew opposition from many of the teams' fans; President Obama highlighted it, while conservative radio commentator Rush Limbaugh called the move \"cowardice, pure and simple.\"\n\nBoycotts of Arizona were organized in response to SB 1070, with resolutions by city governments being among the first to materialize. The government of San Francisco, the Los Angeles City Council, and city officials in Oakland, Minneapolis, Saint Paul, Denver, and Seattle all took specific action, usually by banning some of their employees from work-related travel to Arizona or by limiting city business done with companies headquartered in Arizona.\n\nIn an attempt to push back against the Los Angeles City Council's action, which was valued at $56 million, Arizona Corporation Commissioner Gary Pierce sent a letter to Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, suggesting that he'd \"be happy to encourage Arizona utilities to renegotiate your power agreements so that Los Angeles no longer receives any power from Arizona-based generation.\" Such a move was infeasible for reasons of ownership and governance, and Pierce later stated that he was not making a literal threat to cut power to the city.\n\nU.S. Congressman Raúl Grijalva, from Arizona's 7th congressional district, had been the first prominent officeholder to call for an economic boycott of his state, by industries from manufacturing to tourism, in response to SB 1070. His call was echoed by \"La Opinión\", the nation's largest Spanish-language newspaper. Calls for various kinds of boycotts were also spread through social media sites, and there were reports of individuals or groups changing their plans or activities in protest of the law. The prospect of an adverse economic impact made Arizonan business leaders and groups nervous, and Phoenix officials estimated that the city could lose up to $90 million in hotel and convention business over the next five years due to the controversy over the law. Phoenix Mayor Gordon urged people not to punish the entire state as a consequence.\n\nMajor organizations opposing the law, such as the National Council of La Raza, refrained from initially supporting a boycott, knowing that such actions are difficult to execute successfully and even if done cause broad economic suffering, including among the people they are supporting. Arizona did have a past case of a large-scale boycott during the late 1980s and early 1990s, when it lost many conventions and several hundred million dollars in revenues after Governor Evan Mecham's cancellation of a Martin Luther King, Jr. Day state holiday and a subsequent failed initial referendum to restore it. La Raza subsequently switched its position regarding SB 1070 and became one of the leaders of the boycott effort.\n\nThe Arizona Hispanic Chamber of Commerce opposed both the law and the idea of boycotting, saying the latter would only hurt small businesses and the state’s economy, which was already badly damaged by the collapse of real estate prices and the late-2000s recession. Other state business groups opposed a boycott for the same reasons. Religious groups opposed to the law split on whether a boycott was advisable, with Bishop Carcaño saying one \"would only extend our recession by three to five years and hit those who are poorest among us.\" Representative Grijalva said he wanted to keep a boycott restricted to conferences and conventions and only for a limited time: \"The idea is to send a message, not grind down the state economy.\" Governor Brewer said that she was disappointed and surprised at the proposed boycotts – \"How could further punishing families and businesses, large and small, be a solution viewed as constructive?\" – but said that the state would not back away from the law. President Obama took no position on the matter, saying, \"I'm the president of the United States, I don't endorse boycotts or not endorse boycotts. That's something that private citizens can make a decision about.\"\n\nSports-related boycotts were proposed as well. U.S. Congressman from New York José Serrano asked baseball commissioner Bud Selig to move the 2011 Major League Baseball All-Star Game from Chase Field in Phoenix. The manager of the Chicago White Sox, Ozzie Guillén, stated that he would boycott that game \"as a Latin American\" and several players indicated they might as well. Selig refused to move the game and it took place as scheduled a year later, with no players or coaches staying away. Two groups protesting outside the stadium drew little interest from fans eager to get into the game. The World Boxing Council, based in Mexico City, said it would not schedule Mexican boxers to fight in the state.\n\nA boycott by musicians saying they would not stage performances in Arizona was co-founded by Marco Amador, a Chicano activist and independent media advocate and Zack de la Rocha, the lead singer of Rage Against the Machine and the son of Beto de la Rocha of Chicano art group Los Four, who said, \"Some of us grew up dealing with racial profiling, but this law (SB 1070) takes it to a whole new low.\" Called the Sound Strike, artists signing on with the effort included Kanye West, Cypress Hill, Massive Attack, Conor Oberst, Sonic Youth, Joe Satriani, Rise Against, Tenacious D, The Coup, Gogol Bordello, and Los Tigres del Norte. Some other Spanish-language artists did not join this effort but avoided playing in Arizona on their tours anyway; these included Pitbull, Wisin & Yandel, and Conjunto Primavera. The Sound Strike boycott failed to gain support from many area- or stadium-level acts, and no country music acts signed on. Elton John very publicly opposed such efforts, saying at a concert performance in Tucson: \"We are all very pleased to be playing in Arizona. I have read that some of the artists won't come here. They are fuckwits! Let's face it: I still play in California, and as a gay man I have no legal rights whatsoever. So what's the fuck up with these people?\" By November 2010, Pitbull had announced a change of heart, playing a show in Phoenix because large parts of the law had been stopped by the judicial action. My Chemical Romance, an original Sound Strike participant, supposedly dropped out and scheduled a show in the state as well (however, the following day the show was cancelled and the band apologized, explaining that it was an error with tour scheduling and it should not have been booked in the first place due to \"the band's affiliation with The Sound Strike\" ). De la Rocha said Sound Strike would continue despite the injunction against large parts of SB 1070 in order to battle Arizona's \"racist and fear mongering state government\" and until the Obama administration stopped participating in federal actions such as the 287(g) program, Secure Communities, and other U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement policies.\n\nIn reaction to the boycott talk, proponents of the law advocated making a special effort to buy products and services from Arizona in order to indicate support for the law. These efforts, sometimes termed a \"buycott\", were spread by social media and talk radio as well as by elements of the Tea Party movement. Some supporters of the law and legal scholars have also suggested that the city government boycotts of Arizona represent an unconstitutional violation of the Interstate Commerce Clause.\n\nBy early May, the state had lost a projected $6–10 million in business revenue, according to the Arizona Hotel & Lodging Association. However, an increase in leisure travel and an overall economic recovery more than compensated for the business travel loss; by July, overall hotel occupancy rates and revenues were up from the same period in 2009. The president of the Greater Phoenix Economic Council said, \"Fundamentally, the boycotts have been unsuccessful.\" A November 2010 study by the progressive-oriented Center for American Progress stated that the boycott had so far cost the state economy as much as $141 million in lost revenues, including $45 million in the lodging industry. However, an examination at the same time by the Associated Press found that while the boycott had been disruptive in some areas, it had had nowhere near the effect some had originally imagined. Visitors at Grand Canyon National Park were up from the year before, several well-known Arizona-based companies that were targeted said they had seen no effect from it, and the actions by the San Francisco and Los Angeles city governments had resulted in few practical consequences. Sports-related boycotts, such as of the Fiesta Bowl, sponsor Frito-Lay and beer distributor Hensley & Co., had also had no effect. In September 2011 La Raza and two associated groups called off their boycott, saying that the action had been successful in discouraging some other states from passing SB 1070-like laws and that continuing the boycott would only punish businesses and workers.\n\nSome Christian churches in Arizona with large immigrant congregations reported a 30 percent drop in their attendance figures. Schools, businesses, and health care facilities in certain areas also reported sizable drops in their numbers. That and the prevalence of yard sales suggested illegal immigrants were leaving Arizona, with some returning to Mexico and others moving to other U.S. states. A November 2010 study by BBVA Bancomer based upon Current Population Survey figures stated that there were 100,000 fewer Hispanics in Arizona than before the debate about the law began; it said Arizona's poor economic climate could also be contributing to the decline. The government of Mexico reported that over 23,000 of its citizens returned to the country from Arizona between June and September 2010. A report by Seminario Niñez Migrante found that about 8,000 students entered into Sonora public schools in 2009–2011 with families quoting the American economy and SB 1070 as the main causes.\n\nThe weeks after the bill's signing saw a sharp increase in the number of Hispanics in the state registering their party affiliations as Democrats.\n\nSome immigration experts said the law might make workers with H-1B visas vulnerable to being caught in public without their hard-to-replace paperwork, which they are ordinarily reluctant to carry with them on a daily basis, and that as a consequence universities and technology companies in the state might find it harder to recruit students and employees. Some college and university administrators shared this fear, and President Robert N. Shelton of the University of Arizona expressed concern regarding the withdrawal of a number of honor roll students from the university in reaction to this bill.\n\nSome women with questionable immigration status avoided domestic abuse hotlines and shelters for fear of deportation. Some critics of SB 1070 feared that it will serve as a roadblock to victims getting needed support, while supporters said such concerns were unfounded and that the Act was directed towards criminals, not victims.\n\nWhile a few provisions of the law were left standing following the July 2010 blockage of the most controversial parts, authorities often kept following existing local ordinances in those areas in preference to using the new SB 1070 ones. One county sheriff said, \"The whole thing is still on the shelf until the Supreme Court hears it.\" By mid-2012, those provisions had still rarely been made use of. The training that police forces had gone through to avoid racial profiling and understand federal immigration policies still had a beneficial effect overall.\n\nA 2016 study found that the legislation \"significantly reduced the flow of illegal workers into Arizona from Mexico by 30 to 70 percent.\"\n\nThe Arizona legislation was one of several reasons pushing Democratic congressional leaders to introduce a proposal addressing immigration. Senator Schumer sent a letter to Governor Brewer asking her to delay the law while Congress works on comprehensive immigration reform, but Brewer quickly rejected the proposal.\n\nBills similar to SB 1070 were introduced in Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Michigan, Minnesota, and South Carolina. None of them went to final votes in 2010; politicians in nearly twenty states are proposing to introduce similar legislation during their 2011 legislative calendars. Such proposals drew strong reaction both for and against, and some states may have waited to see how the Arizona law fares in the courts before moving forward. The other states along the Mexican border – Texas, New Mexico, and California – generally showed little interest in following Arizona's path. This was due to their having established, powerful Hispanic communities, deep cultural ties to Mexico, past experience with bruising political battles over the issue (such as with California Proposition 187 in the 1990s), and the perception among their populations that illegal immigration was less severe a problem.\n\nBy March 2011, Arizona-like bills had been defeated or had failed to progress in at least six states and momentum had shifted against such imitative efforts. Reasons ranged from opposition from business leaders to fear among legislators of the legal costs of defending any adopted measure. One state that did pass a law based partly on SB 1070, Utah, combined it with a guest worker program that went in the other direction (and fit into the spirit of the Utah Compact). Even in Arizona itself, additional tough measures against illegal immigration were having a difficult time gaining passage in the Arizona Senate. Other states were still waiting to see what the outcome of the legal battles would be. By September 2011, Indiana, Georgia, and South Carolina had passed somewhat similar measures and were facing legal action. Another anti-illegal immigration measure, Alabama HB 56, was considered tougher even than SB 1070; it was signed into law in June 2011. However, federal courts subsequently blocked many of the key provisions of these laws in those states, and other provisions were dropped following settlements of lawsuits.\n\nState Senator Pearce rose to become President of the Arizona Senate in January 2011. But he then suffered a startling defeat when he lost a November 2011 recall election. Among the reasons given for his loss were the desire for greater civility in politics and a lessening of the tension over immigration policy, and a loss of support for Pearce among LDS Church members based on character issues. Other reasons for the defeat, such as concerns over Pearce's ethics in taking free trips or the involvement of a third candidacy in the recall election, had little to do with SB 1070. In August 2012, Pearce lost a comeback bid in the Republican primary for the nomination for a state senate seat to businessman Bob Worsley. Pearce was given another government job by the Maricopa County Treasurer.\n\nDrafter of the law Kris Kobach won election as Secretary of State of Kansas, first defeating two other candidates in a Republican primary, then winning the general election against Democratic incumbent Chris Biggs by a wide margin. Sheriff Joe Arpaio was among those who campaigned for Kobach.\n\nState Attorney General Goddard did get the Democratic nomination in the 2010 Arizona gubernatorial election. Governor Jan Brewer went on to defeat him by a 54 to 42 percent margin in the November 2010 general election. A 2016 study found that the up-tick in Brewer's approval ratings due to the legislation \"proved enduring enough to turn a losing race for re-election into a victory\".\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) criticized the statute as a violation of the Supremacy Clause of the United States Constitution, which states that federal law, so long as it is constitutional, is paramount over state laws. Erwin Chemerinsky, a constitutional scholar and dean of the University of California, Irvine School of Law said, \"The law is clearly pre-empted by federal law under Supreme Court precedents.\"\n\nAccording to Kobach, the law embodies the doctrine of \"concurrent enforcement\" (the state law parallels applicable federal law without any conflict), and Kobach stated that he believed that it would thus survive any challenge: \"There are some things that states can do and some that states can't do, but this law threads the needle perfectly... Arizona only penalizes what is already a crime under federal law.\" State Senator Pearce noted that some past state laws on immigration enforcement had been upheld in federal courts.\nIn \"Gonzales v. City of Peoria\" (9th Cir. 1983), a court held that the Immigration and Naturalization Act precludes local enforcement of the Act's civil provisions but not the Act's criminal provisions. The US Attorney General may enter a written agreement with a state or local government agency under which that agency's employees perform the function of an immigration officer in relation to the investigation, apprehension, or detention of aliens in the United States;\nhowever, such an agreement is not required for the agency's employees to perform those functions.\n\nOn the other hand, various legal experts were divided on whether the law would survive a court challenge, with one law professor saying it \"sits right on that thin line of pure state criminal law and federally controlled immigration law.\" Past lower court decisions in the area were not always consistent, and a decision on the bill's legality from the US Supreme Court was one possible outcome.\n\nOn April 27, 2010, Roberto Javier Frisancho, a natural born citizen and resident of Washington, D.C., who planned on visiting Arizona, filed the first lawsuit against S.B. 1070. On April 29, 2010, the National Coalition of Latino Clergy and Christian Leaders and a Tucson police officer, Martin Escobar, filed suit against SB 1070, both doing so separately in federal court. The National Coalition's filing claimed that the law usurped federal responsibilities under the Supremacy Clause that it led to racial profiling by imposing a \"reasonable suspicion\" requirement upon police officers to check the immigration status of those they come in official conduct with, which would, in turn, be subject to too much personal interpretation by each officer. Escobar's suit argued that there was no race-neutral criteria available to him to suspect that a person was an illegal immigrant and that implementation of the law would hinder police investigations in areas that were predominantly Hispanic. The suit also claimed the Act violated federal law because the police and the city have no authority to perform immigration-related duties. The Tucson police department insisted that Escobar was not acting on its behalf and that it had received many calls from citizens complaining about his suit.\n\nA Phoenix police officer, David Salgado, quickly followed with his own federal suit, claiming that to enforce the law would require him to violate the rights of Hispanics. He also said that he would be forced to spend his own time and resources studying the law's requirements and that he was liable to being sued whether he enforced the law or not.\n\nOn May 5, Tucson and Flagstaff became the first two cities to authorize legal action against the state over the Act. San Luis later joined them. However, as of mid-late May, none of them had actually filed a suit. In late May, however, the city of Tucson filed a cross-claim and joined Officer Escobar in his suit.\n\nOn May 17, a joint class action lawsuit, \"Friendly House et al. v. Whiting\", was filed in U.S. District Court on behalf of ten individuals and fourteen labor, religious, and civil rights organizations. The legal counsel filing the action, the largest of those filed, was a collaboration of the ACLU, the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the National Immigration Law Center, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the National Day Laborer Organizing Network, and the Asian Pacific American Legal Center. The suit seeks to prevent SB 1070 from going into effect by charging: \n\nThis suit named County's Attorney and Sheriffs as defendants, rather than the State of Arizona or Governor Brewer, as the earlier suits had. On June 4, the ACLU and others filed a request for an injunction, arguing that the Act's scheduled start date of July 29 should be postponed until the underlying legal challenges against it were resolved.\n\nArizona Attorneys for Criminal Justice, the state affiliate of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, alleged in an \"amicus curiae\" brief for the ACLU et al. case that the prolonged detentions mandated by the law if reasonable suspicion that someone subject to a lawful stop was an illegal alien are not justifiable except under the probable cause standard and so the law requires violations of Fourth Amendment rights. The Anti-Defamation League also filed an \"amicus curiae\" brief in support of the case. The Government of Mexico said that the law was unconstitutional and would lead to unlawful discrimination against Mexican citizens and damage to relations between the two nations. Indeed, so many \"amicus curiae\" briefs have been filed regarding the law that size limits were imposed upon them.\n\nKobach remained optimistic that the suits would fail: \"I think it will be difficult for the plaintiffs challenging this. They are heavy on political rhetoric but light on legal arguments.\" In late May 2010, Governor Brewer issued an executive order to create the Governor's Border Security and Immigration Legal Defense Fund to handle suits over the law. Brewer got into a dispute with Arizona Attorney General Terry Goddard over whether he would defend the law against legal challenges, as a state attorney general normally would. Brewer accused Goddard, who opposed the law personally and was one of Brewer's possible rivals in the gubernatorial election, of colluding with the US Justice Department as it deliberated whether to challenge the law in court. Goddard subsequently agreed to withdraw from the state's defense.\n\nThe United States Department of Justice filed a lawsuit against the state of Arizona in the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona on July 6, 2010, asking for the law to be declared invalid since it interferes with the immigration regulations \"exclusively vested in the federal government.\" In a brief to the press, the department's lawyers referenced the notion of federal pre-emption and stated, \"The Constitution and the federal immigration laws do not permit the development of a patchwork of state and local immigration policies throughout the country... The immigration framework set forth by Congress and administered by federal agencies reflects a careful and considered balance of national law enforcement, foreign relations, and humanitarian concerns – concerns that belong to the nation as a whole, not a single state.\" That pointed to an additional practical argument: the law would result in federal authorities losing focus on their broader priorities to deal with an influx of deportations from Arizona. The Justice Department requested for the federal courts to enjoin enforcement of the law before it could go into effect. The suit did not argue that the law will lead to racial profiling, but department officials said they would continue to monitor that aspect if the measure went into effect.\n\nA direct suit of a state by the federal government is rare, and the action held possible political consequences for the 2010 U.S. midterm elections as well. It was also seen as a pre-emptive measure to discourage other states considering similar laws from moving forward with them. Immediate reaction to the Justice Department's decision was highly split, with liberal groups hailing it but with Governor Brewer calling it \"nothing more than a massive waste of taxpayer funds.\" Senators Kyl and McCain released a joint statement noting that \"the American people must wonder whether the Obama Administration is really committed to securing the border when it sues a state that is simply trying to protect its people by enforcing immigration law.\" Representative Darrell Issa, one of 19 Republicans to sign a letter criticizing the suit on the day that it was announced, said, \"For President Obama to stand in the way of a state which has taken action to stand up for its citizens against the daily threat of violence and fear is disgraceful and a betrayal of his Constitutional obligation to protect our citizens.\" The federal action also led to a surge in contributions to the governor's defense fund for the law. By July 8, total donations were over $500,000, with the large majority of them being for $100 or less and coming from around the nation.\n\nThe Arizona Latino Republican Association became the first Latino organization to come out in support of SB 1070 and filed a motion to intervene against the Justice Department's lawsuit challenging it. An attempt in the US Senate to block funding for the Justice Department's lawsuit lost by a 55–43 vote that was mostly along party lines.\n\nHearings on three of the seven lawsuits were held on July 15 and 22, 2010, before U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton. Bolton asked pointed questions of each side during both hearings but gave no indication of how or when she would rule.\n\nOn July 28, 2010, Bolton issued a ruling on the Justice Department suit, \"United States of America v. Arizona\", granting a preliminary injunction that blocked the most key and controversial portions of SB 1070 from going into effect. They included requiring police to check the immigration status of those arrested or stopped, which the judge ruled would overwhelm the federal government handling of immigration cases and could mean that legal immigrants would be wrongly arrested. She wrote, \"Federal resources will be taxed and diverted from federal enforcement priorities as a result of the increase in requests for immigration status determination that will flow from Arizona.\" Her ruling was not a final decision but was based on the belief that the Justice Department was likely to win a full later trial in federal court on these aspects. Bolton made no rulings in the other six lawsuits. Governor Brewer said that the injunction would be appealed, and on July 29, that was done in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco. State Senator Pearce predicted that the legal battle would eventually end up in the Supreme Court and likely be upheld by a 5–4 margin.\n\nJudge Bolton's ruling let a number of other aspects of the law take effect on July 29, including the ability to prevent state officials from maintaining \"sanctuary city\" policies and allowing civil suits against those policies, the mandating that state officials work with federal officials on matters related to illegal immigration, and the prohibition of stopping a vehicle in traffic to pick up day laborers. Those parts of the law were challenged not by the Justice Department but by some of the other suits.\n\nA three-judge panel from the Ninth Circuit heard arguments in the appeal case on November 1, 2010, and it gave indications that it might reinstate but weaken parts of the law.\n\nIn February 2011, Arizona filed a countersuit against the federal government in the \"United States v. Arizona\" case, accusing it of failing to secure the Mexican border against large numbers of illegal immigrants. Arizona Attorney General Tom Horne acknowledged that precedent surrounding sovereign immunity in the United States made the state's case difficult, but he said, \"We're asking the 9th Circuit to take a second look.\"\n\nOn April 11, 2011, the Ninth Circuit panel upheld the district court's ban on parts of the law taking effect, thus ruling in favor of the Obama administration and against Arizona. Judge Richard Paez gave the majority opinion in which Judge John T. Noonan, Jr. joined; Judge Carlos Bea dissented in part. Paez agreed with the administration's view that the state had intruded upon federal prerogatives. Noonan wrote in his concurrence: \"The Arizona statute before us has become a symbol. For those sympathetic to immigrants to the United States, it is a challenge and a chilling foretaste of what other states might attempt.\" On May 9, 2011, Governor Brewer announced that Arizona would appeal directly to the US Supreme Court, rather than request a hearing \"en banc\" before the Ninth Circuit. That appeal was filed on August 10, 2011. In response, the Justice Department requested for the Supreme Court to stay out of the case and said that the lower courts' actions were appropriate. Observers thought it likely that the Supreme Court would take up the matter, but if it declined to step in, the case most likely would be returned to the trial judge in the District Court to review the case on its merits and determine whether the temporary injunction that blocked the law's most controversial provisions should become permanent. The Supreme Court announced in December 2011 that it had granted a petition for writ of certiorari, and oral arguments took place on April 25, 2012.\n\nBolton's court continued to oversee the other lawsuits; by early 2012 three of the seven were still active. On February 29, 2012, Bolton ruled in favor of an action led by the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund and blocked provisions of the law that allowed for the arrest of day workers who block traffic in an effort to gain employment.\n\nOn June 25, 2012, the US Supreme Court issued a ruling in the case \"Arizona v. United States\". It determined, by a 5–3 majority, with Justice Anthony Kennedy writing the opinion, that Sections 3, 5(C), and 6 of SB 1070 were pre-empted by federal law. Those sections make it a state misdemeanor for an immigrant not to be carrying documentation of lawful presence in the country, allow state police to arrest without a warrant in some situations, and make it unlawful under state law for an individual to apply for employment without federal work authorization. All of the justices agreed to uphold the portion of the law allowing Arizona state police to investigate the immigration status of an individual stopped, detained, or arrested if there is reasonable suspicion that individual is in the country illegally. However, Justice Kennedy specified in the majority opinion that state police may not detain the individual for a prolonged amount of time for not carrying immigration documents and that cases based upon allegations of racial profiling may proceed through the courts if such cases happen later.\nJustice Scalia dissented and said that he would have upheld the entire law. Justice Thomas likewise stated that he would have upheld the entire law and that it was not pre-empted by federal law. Justice Alito agreed with Justices Scalia and Thomas on Sections 5(C) and 6 but joined with the majority in finding Section 3 pre-empted.\n\nOn September 5, 2012, Judge Bolton cleared the way for police to carry out the 2010 law's requirement that officers, while enforcing other laws, may question the immigration status of those they suspect are in the country illegally. She said that the Supreme Court had clearly stated that the provision \"cannot be challenged further on its face before the law takes effect,\" but that constitutionality challenges on other grounds could take place in the future. Later that month, the first arrest received some news attention. In November 2013, the ACLU filed the first legal challenge to this provision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1080220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1080220", "title": "Article 48 (Weimar Constitution)", "text": "Article 48 (Weimar Constitution)\n\nArticle 48 of the constitution of the Weimar Republic of Germany (1919–1933) allowed the President, under certain circumstances, to take emergency measures without the prior consent of the \"Reichstag\". This power was understood to include the promulgation of \"emergency decrees (')\".\n\nThe text of the Article neither precisely defined the kind of emergency that would justify its usage nor gave the President the power to enact, issue, or otherwise promulgate legislation. However, such an inherent Presidential legislative power was clearly implied, as the Article expressly gave the Reichstag the power to cancel the emergency decree by a simple majority vote. That parliamentary power implied that a decree could, either by its express terms or its operation, impinge on the Reichstag's constitutional function.\n\nArticle 48 required the President to inform the Reichstag immediately of the issuance of the emergency decree and gave the Reichstag the power to nullify the emergency decree by simple majority action. The Reichsrat, the upper house, was not involved in the process at all. If the Reichstag nullified the decree, the President could retaliate by using the power, under Article 25, to dissolve the Reichstag and call for new elections within 60 days.\n\nFollowing the Treaty of Versailles, there was a period of hyperinflation in the Weimar Republic between 1921 and 1923, then the Occupation of the Ruhr between 1923 and 1925. Friedrich Ebert, a Social Democrat and the Republic's first President, used Article 48 on 136 occasions, including the deposition of lawfully elected governments in Saxony and Thuringia when those appeared disorderly. On 29 August 1921 an emergency proclamation was issued limiting the wearing of imperial military uniforms to current serving members of the armed forces. Ebert had granted Chancellor Wilhelm Cuno considerable latitude under Article 48 to deal with the inflation and with matters related to the Mark. The Emminger Reform of 4 January 1924 abolished the jury system as triers of fact within the judiciary of Germany and replaced it with a mixed system of judges and lay judges which still exists today.\n\nArticle 48 was used by President Paul von Hindenburg in 1930 to deal with the economic crisis of the time. During spring and summer 1930, Chancellor Heinrich Brüning found his government unable to obtain a parliamentary majority for its financial reform bill, which was voted down by the \"Reichstag,\" but the government did not seriously try to negotiate with the Parliament to find a \"modus vivendi\". Instead, Brüning asked Hindenburg to invoke Article 48 in order to promulgate the bill as an emergency decree and thereby give Brüning's government the authority to act without the consent of the \"Reichstag\". When Hindenburg gave his authority and issued the decree, the \"Reichstag\" repudiated the decree, by a small majority on 18 July 1930. Under Article 48, this vote by a majority of the \"Reichstag\" members invalidated the presidential decree. Faced with a breakdown of parliamentary rule at a time when the economic situation demanded action, Brüning asked Hindenburg to dissolve parliament and call for new elections. The \"Reichstag\" was accordingly dissolved on 18 July and new elections were scheduled for 14 September 1930.\n\nThe election produced increased representation in the Reichstag for both the Communists and, most dramatically, for the Nazis, at the expense of the moderate middle-class parties. Forming a parliamentary majority became even more difficult for Brüning. In fact, just to conduct the normal business of government, he was forced to invoke Article 48 several times between 1930 and 1932. Subsequent governments under chancellors Franz von Papen and Kurt von Schleicher during the tumultuous year 1932 obtained President Hindenburg's decree of legislation under Article 48 when they too found it impossible to obtain a parliamentary majority as the extremist parties on the left and right gained power.\n\nThe invocation of Article 48 by successive governments helped seal the fate of the Weimar Republic. While Brüning's first invocation of a \"Notverordnung\" may have been well-intentioned, the power to rule by decree became increasingly used not in response to a specific emergency but as a substitute for parliamentary leadership. The excessive use of the decree power and the fact that successive chancellors were no longer responsible to the \"Reichstag\" probably played a significant part in the loss of public confidence in constitutional democracy, in turn leading to the rise of the extremist parties.\n\nOn 30 January 1933, Adolf Hitler was named Chancellor of Germany. Lacking a majority in the \"Reichstag\", Hitler formed a coalition with the National-Conservatives (German National People's Party (German: Deutschnationale Volkspartei, DNVP)). Not long afterwards, he called elections for 5 March. Six days before the election, on 27 February, the Reichstag fire damaged the house of Parliament in Berlin. Claiming that the fire was the first step in a Communist revolution, the Nazis used the fire as a pretext to get the President, Hindenburg, to sign the Reichstag Fire Decree, officially the \"\" (Presidential Decree for the Protection of People and State).\n\nUnder the decree, issued by Hindenburg on the basis of Article 48, the government was given authority to curtail constitutional rights including habeas corpus, free expression of opinion, freedom of the press, rights of assembly, and the privacy of postal, telegraphic and telephonic communications. Constitutional restrictions on searches and confiscation of property were likewise suspended.\n\nThe \"Reichstag\" Fire Decree was one of the first steps the Nazis took toward the establishment of a one-party dictatorship in Germany. With several key government posts in the hands of Nazis and with the constitutional protections on civil liberties suspended by the decree, the Nazis were able to use police power to suppress, intimidate and arrest their opposition, in particular the Communists. Hitler's subversion of the Constitution under Article 48 thus had the mark of legality.\n\nThe 5 March elections gave the Nazi-DNVP coalition a narrow majority in the \"Reichstag\". Nonetheless, the Nazis were able to maneuver on 23 March 1933 the passage of the Enabling Act by the required two-thirds parliamentary majority, effectively abrogating the authority of the Reichstag and placing its authority in the hands of the Cabinet (in effect, the Chancellor). Over the years, Hitler used Article 48 to give his dictatorship the stamp of legality. Thousands of his decrees were based explicitly on the Reichstag Fire Decree, and hence on Article 48. The Reichstag Fire Decree remained in effect for the entire Nazi era; thus, for the next 12 years, Hitler ruled under what amounted to martial law.\n\nThe misuse of Article 48 was fresh in the minds of the framers of the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany. They decided to significantly curb the powers of the president, to the point that he, unlike his Weimar predecessor, has little de facto executive power. Also, to prevent a government from being forced to rely on decrees to carry on normal business, they stipulated that a chancellor may be removed from office only if there is already a positive majority for a prospective successor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2236696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2236696", "title": "Bahá'í laws", "text": "Bahá'í laws\n\nBahá'í laws are laws and ordinances used in the Bahá'í Faith and are a fundamental part of Bahá'í practice. The laws are based on authenticated texts from Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, and also includes subsequent interpretations from `Abdu'l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, and legislation by the Universal House of Justice. Bahá'í law is presented as a set of general principles and guidelines and individuals must apply them as they best seem fit. While some of the social laws are enforced by Bahá'í institutions, the emphasis is placed on individuals following the laws based on their conscience, understanding and reasoning, and Bahá'ís are expected to follow the laws for the love of Bahá'u'lláh. The laws are seen as the method of the maintenance of order and security in the world.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith had its roots in the Bábí Religion which was started by the Báb in the mid-19th century in Persia. Originally Bábís adhered to the Islamic laws, but this changed when the Báb wrote a Bábí code of law in the Bayán, which replaced them. However, the Báb's laws were not widely practiced by the Bábís, and instead many Bábís became antinomian; they also marked their new religious identity by deliberately not abiding by Islamic practice.\n\nBahá'u'lláh, as both his initial role as Bábí leader, and then as Bábí messianic figure, condemned the antinomian tendencies of the community. At the request of his followers, he eventually wrote a book of laws, the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\", which he completed while he was in Acre, Palestine.\n\nThe main source of Bahá'í law is the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\", but it is supplemented by some supplementary texts written by Bahá'u'lláh, as well as further interpretations by `Abdu'l-Bahá, and Shoghi Effendi, heads of the religion after Bahá'u'lláh's death, as well as legislation by the Universal House of Justice, the international governing body of the Bahá'ís. The writings of Bahá'u'lláh, `Abdu'l-Bahá, and Shoghi Effendi are considered fundamental and unchangeable, while the application of some of them depends on decisions by the Universal House of Justice. Legislation by the Universal House of Justice is seen as subsidiary and is subject to alteration and/or repeal by the Universal House of Justice to account for changing circumstances. The laws written by the Báb are not applicable, except when Bahá'u'lláh specifically reiterated them.\n\nBahá'u'lláh stated that the ordinances of his book of laws was the best method for the maintenance of world order and security, and that Bahá'ís should obey the laws with \"joy and gladness\", and that true liberty could be obtained by obedience to the laws.\n\nBahá'u'lláh stated that the observance of the laws that he prescribed should be subject to \"tact and wisdom\", and that they do not cause \"disturbance and dissension.\" Bahá'u'lláh thus provided for the progressive application of his laws; for example certain Bahá'í laws are only applicable to Middle Eastern Bahá'ís such as the limit to the period of engagement, while any Bahá'í may practice the laws if they so decide. Other Bahá'í laws such as the prohibition to drink alcohol have also been applied gradually in countries where it goes against social norms, and for which most Bahá'ís are new to the religion. Shoghi Effendi also stated that certain other laws, such as criminal laws, that are dependent upon the existence of a predominantly Bahá'í society would only be applicable in a possible future Bahá'í society. He also stated that if the laws were in conflict with the civil law of the country where a Bahá'í lives the laws could not be practiced. Furthermore, some laws and teachings are, according to Bahá'í teaching, not meant to be applied at the present time and their application depends on decisions by the Universal House of Justice.\n\nIn Bahá'í literature the laws are not seen as a constricting code, or a ritual, but are described as the \"choice wine\", and a means to happiness.\nThe laws are generally presented as a set of general principles and guidelines which each individual Bahá'í must apply to their own lives as they see fit. Bahá'í law and teachings do not include details on many aspects of life, and the successive heads of the religion have been reluctant to prescribe specific and detailed codes of Bahá'í behaviour; for example the heads of the religion have stated that details of Bahá'í behaviour, such as how to dress, are a matter of individual choice and not Bahá'í law. This is in contrast to the provisions of Islamic law.\n\nThe practice of Bahá'í law is firmly placed on individual conscience, understanding and reasoning. The Bahá'í laws are not considered as binding to anyone until they become a Bahá'í, and becoming a Bahá'í is not conditional on a person's level of adherence to the laws; an individual is expected to gradually apply laws on a personal basis. Bahá'ís are expected to follow the laws not because they will be punished for breaking them, but instead because they love Bahá'u'lláh and that they fear God. The teachings of the Bahá'í Faith state that individuals are answerable to God. The observance of personal laws, such as prayer or fasting, is the sole responsibility of the individual, but some laws may be enforced to a degree by Bahá'í institutions, by the loss of Bahá'í administrative rights, if they bring the Bahá'í community into public disrepute.\n\nThe \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\" goes over both religious and civil laws such as the recitation of a daily obligatory prayer, the time of fasting, the laws of inheritance, the abolishment of priests, the prohibition of such things as slavery, asceticism, and gambling, the condemnation of such things as idleness and backbiting, the specification of punishments for such things as murder and arson, the stating of the requirement of each person to practice a profession, and the emphasis for the necessity of the education of children, as well as the need to strictly obey the government of one's country. Bahá'u'lláh also writes about general principles including statements telling his followers to work with people of all religions with amity, and warns his followers to guard against such things as fanaticism and pride. He also encourages such things as cleanliness and truthfulness.\n\nThe act of prayer is one of the most important Bahá'í laws for individual discipline and Bahá'í are enjoined to pray daily. Prayer in the Bahá'í Faith consists of two distinct types, obligatory prayer and devotional (general) prayer. The purpose of prayer in the Bahá'í Faith is to get closer to God and to Bahá'u'lláh and to help better one's own conduct and to request divine assistance.\n\nBahá'ís must individually recite an obligatory prayer each day, using fixed words and form prescribed by Bahá'u'lláh. Obligatory prayer is performed individually while facing the Qiblih, preceded by ablutions. Certain exemptions from obligatory prayer are given to those who are ill, in danger, and women in their courses.\n\nIn addition to the daily obligatory prayer, Bahá'í scripture directs believers daily to offer devotional prayer as well as to meditate and study sacred scripture. In contrast with the fixed form prescribed for obligatory prayers, there is no set form for devotions and meditations, though the devotional prayers written by the central figures of the Bahá'í Faith and collected in prayer books are held in high esteem.\n\nThe Bahá'í fast is a nineteen-day period of the year, during which Bahá'í are asked adhere to a sunrise-to-sunset fast. Along with obligatory prayer, it is one of the greatest obligations of a Bahá'í, and its chief purpose is spiritual; to reinvigorate the soul and bring the person closer to God.\n\nDuring the period of fasting, from March 2 through March 20, Bahá'ís in good health between the ages of 15 and 70 abstain from eating and drinking. Exemptions are available for people who are travelling, ill, pregnant, nursing, menstruating, or engaged in heavy labour. Fasting is an individual spiritual obligation, and cannot be enforced by Bahá'í institutions.\n\nThe Bahá'í teachings recommend marriage, but it is not obligatory. Marriage is emphasized as an assistance to one's self, as well as for the benefit of society; it is seen as both a physical relationship and a spiritual relationship that would continue in all the worlds of God.\n\nThe requirements of Bahá'í marriage include that the partners be over the age of 15, and is dependent on the consent of the couple and all their living biological parents, so to strengthen the ties between the families. According to the Bahá'í teachings, sexuality is a normal part of married life and is intended to enhance the relationship. However, sexual relationships are permitted only between a man and woman who are married. This precludes marriages that are homosexual or polygamous as well as any sexual relationship outside of marriage. Interreligious marriages are permitted, and interracial marriages are encouraged. Divorce is permitted, although discouraged, and is granted after a year of separation if the couple is unable to reconcile their differences.\n\nThe Bahá'í teachings state that parents need to raise their children to be moral and religious, but not fanatical. Parents are required to provide an education to their children, and children have a duty to obey their parents, which is seen as obeying God. Shoghi Effendi stated that preserving family unity is of utmost importance, and Bahá'ís are counselled to balance their desire to serve the religion with their responsibilities as parents, spouses and children.\n\nIn the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\", Bahá'u'lláh wrote that all Bahá'ís must write a will where they have complete freedom in determining how to dispose of their property. Bahá'u'lláh, however, did create a schedule of inheritance in case of intestacy, that is, when the individual dies without leaving a will. The system of inheritance in the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\" is based on the provisions written by the Báb and provides for distribution of the deceased's estate among seven categories of heirs.: children, spouse, father, mother, brothers, sisters, and teachers, with higher categories obtaining a larger share. In cases where some of the categories of heirs do not exist, the share falls partly to the children and partly to the Local Spiritual Assembly. The distribution among heirs is uneven: children receive nine parts; the spouse receives eight; the father, seven; the mother, six; the brothers, five; the sisters, four; and the teachers, three.\n\nGossip and backbiting are prohibited and viewed as particularly damaging to the individual and their relationships. Backbiting, speaking of the faults of others in their absence, is described as the greatest sin and the most hated human characteristic. This practice is seen as having a deeply negative effect on the community as well as the individuals involved.\n\nBahá'ís are forbidden to drink alcohol or to take drugs, except by a doctor's order. The reason being that God has given human beings reason and intoxicants take that away and lead the mind astray. The non-medicinal use of opium and other mind-altering drugs are particularly condemned in the Bahá'í scriptures. Bahá'ís are also asked to try to avoid working in jobs that involve the manufacturing or large-scale sale of alcohol and avoid any involvement in the drug trade. Smoking tobacco is not forbidden but is discouraged.\n\nHuqúqu'lláh, the \"Right of God\", is a law which requires Bahá'ís to pay 19% of their surplus net-worth (i.e. those things that they do not need to live comfortably), after the discharge of all debts. The sum is calculated annually; however, it is paid only if the annual net worth amount increases - if their net worth stays the same or decreases the amount of Huqúqu'lláh is zero.\n\nPayment is an individual spiritual obligation, and is seen as a spiritual bounty to bring the individual closer to God. No Bahá'í can be solicited for it, and the contribution is confidential and a personal matter. The money collected is used by the Universal House of Justice for such things as the promotion of the religion, the upkeep of properties, and general charity.\n\nBahá'ís are also expected to make financial contributions to Bahá'í funds. However, contributions are strictly confidential, including whether or not a believer makes one, and is up to individual discretion. Donations are never solicited, and contributions are not accepted from non-Bahá'í sources.\n\nOther laws that have been prescribed in the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\" include:\n\nProhibitions included in the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\" include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25337431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25337431", "title": "Begging for Billionaires", "text": "Begging for Billionaires\n\nBegging for Billionaires is a 2009 American documentary film exposing abuses of eminent domain. The film is directed by Philip Klein. The music for the film was written and performed by Tom Goodkind of the Washington Squares.\n\n"}
{"id": "12737785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12737785", "title": "Biblical law", "text": "Biblical law\n\nBiblical law refers to the legal aspects of the Bible, the holy scriptures of Judaism and Christianity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12872140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12872140", "title": "Biblioteca Nacional de Portugal", "text": "Biblioteca Nacional de Portugal\n\nThe (Portuguese for \"National Library of Portugal\") is the Portuguese national library, fulfilling the function of legal deposit and copyright.\n\nThe library was created by Decree of 29 February 1796, under the name of Royal Public Library of the Court. The library's objective was to allow the general public access to the court's collections, thus bucking the trend of the time only available to scholars and sages could access the treasures, manuscripts, paintings, and books of the royal court.\n\nIn the dawn of the victory of the Liberals and the abolition of the religious orders (1834), the institution was renamed the National Library of Lisbon and was officially entrusted with all or part of the libraries of numerous monasteries and convents. The arrival of these large collections made it absolutely necessary to move to larger premises, and the choice fell on the Convento de São Francisco.\n\nOver the more than 130 years in which it operated in the Chiado area of the city, the BNL experienced periods of modernisation and enrichment and times of greyness and lethargy. We should particularly note the efforts that were made in the 19th century to absorb the collections of the abolished religious establishments, organise bibliographic exhibitions and publish catalogues of a variety of collections.\n\nThe proclamation of the Republic (1910) was followed by the incorporation of a new wave of libraries from another round of abolitions of religious institutions. Between 1920 and 1926 the BNL enjoyed a phase in which it took a major step forward in the field of library and information science and benefited from a flourishing cultural life, all of which was promoted by the so-called “Library Group”.\n\nThe growth of the collections and the need for conditions suited to the conservation of the Library’s rich holdings made it indispensable to construct a purpose-designed building that would provide the largest Portuguese bibliographic collection with a proper home. Work began in 1958, to a design by the architect Porfírio Pardal Monteiro, and the Library was transferred to the new building in the Campo Grande area in 1969.\n\nThe process of computerising the Library began in the 1980s, alongside a broader project intended to support all of Portugal’s libraries in this respect, which resulted in the creation of the National Bibliographic Database – PORBASE. At the same time as it adapted to the process of technological evolution, the Library continued to enrich its collections. Of particular significance was the creation of an Archive of Writers’ Personal Papers, but a number of major initiatives were also undertaken with regard to the standardisation of library and information techniques, preservation and conservation, and cultural activities.\n\nAt the beginning of this century the Library has been accompanying the international trend towards the digitisation of bibliographic collections, with the creation of the (National Digital Library, BND), which is constantly growing and works closely with other European institutions.\n\nAlready more than 200 years old, in 2007 the Institution was renamed the National Library of Portugal (BNP) and began a restructuring process that is seeking to help both enrich and publicise the nation’s bibliographic heritage, and to modernise, rationalise and improve its own operations in such a way as to serve the public, the professional community, and publishers and booksellers.\n\nThe BNP’s mission is to collect, process and preserve the Portuguese documentary heritage, including documents in Portuguese and about Portugal, whatever their format or carrier. It is also charged with studying and disseminating that heritage and ensuring the conditions which people need in order to be able to enjoy it, as well as classifying and inventorying the nation’s bibliographic heritage assets.\n\nUnder this definition, which is set out in the Organic Law governing the BNP, the Library continues to pursue the essence of the fundamental purposes and objectives for which it was created in 1796, but is also responsible for the provision of a more varied range of services to both Portuguese culture and the public in general – among other ways, via the Online Catalogue of our collections and the Digital National Library – and the professionals in the publishing and information and documentation sectors.\n\nTo this end the BNP acts as the National Bibliographic Agency, which is responsible for the mandatory legal deposit of publications and the country’s ISSN, ISMN and CIP (Cataloguing in Publication) services, the recording and dissemination of the Portuguese National Bibliography, and the coordination and management of PORBASE – the National Bibliographic Database. In this respect it has also undertaken a variety of actions that help to promote the professional development of libraries, in conjunction with its role as the body with responsibility for national standards concerning documentation and information in Portugal.\n\nProtecting and enhancing the country’s bibliographic heritage are another two fundamental aspects of the BNP’s mission, in its dual role as the entity that is responsible for preserving and controlling that heritage and the keeper of Portugal’s largest collection of bibliographic treasures. It is also charged with studying and publicising the latter in Portugal and abroad, which is accomplished by means of a range of projects involving inter-institutional cooperation, exhibitions, research activities and publications.\n\nThe National Library of Portugal is the largest library in the country and a prestigious institution on the cultural scene. It collects, processes and preserves the nation’s bibliographic heritage and makes it available to the intellectual and scientific community.\n\nThe National Library of Portugal has a wide variety of collections that encompass documentation from every era, of every type and on every subject. A combination of the legal deposit system, acquisitions and donations mean that our holdings are constantly evolving. A special emphasis is placed on Portuguese works.\n\nThe General Collection is the BNP’s largest, with more than 3 million items, most of which are Portuguese publications. It covers the period from the 16th to the 21st centuries.\nInitially composed of the holdings of the Library of the Royal Board of Censorship and the libraries of convents that were abolished in 1834, the collection is divided into sections of monographs by major topic, a set of special collections that have been donated to us over the years, and a huge collection of 50,000 Portuguese periodical titles and around 240 foreign ones.\nThe General Collection systematically contains everything that has been published in Portugal and provided to the Library under the Legal Deposit system since 1931. It also includes the theses and other academic works produced at Portugal’s universities, which have also been subject to mandatory legal deposit since 1986.\n\nThe various collections that we generically term \"Rare books and manuscripts\" encompass the most valuable and important heritage assets in the BNP’s holdings. \nThe collection of Manuscripts is currently actually made up of six collections, with library and archive documents of various genres and types and with a wide range of origins, from the 12th century to the present day. The overall collection contains a total of around 15,000 codices and 36,000 sundry manuscripts. \nThe collection of rare Printed Books is made up of a selection of works whose rarity, age or publishing characteristics earn them a place in the BNP’s \"Valuable Reserve\" of printed books, which numbers more than 30,000 items. There are two main sections, which are divided on the basis of age: up until 1500 (Incunabula); and printed since 1501 (Rare books). We also have a number of other collections, which are grouped on the basis of a number of different criteria, such as subject, printer, or special characteristics. \nThe Historical Archive contains archive documents from a variety of sources, with an emphasis on personal and family archives. The oldest documents date from the 11th century. In total there are around 466 separate collections (or parts of collection). The BNP’s own Historical Archive is included under this heading. \nThe Archive of Contemporary Portuguese Culture (ACPC) is currently home to the collections of personal papers of 148 writers and other figures from the 19th and 20th centuries. Leading names include Fernando Pessoa, Eça de Queirós, Camilo Castelo Branco, Camilo Pessanha, Antero de Quental, Oliveira Martins, Jaime Cortesão, Raul Proença, Vitorino Nemésio, Vergílio Ferreira and José Saramago, among others.\n\nThe Cartography collection holds around 6,800 titles composed of both printed and manuscript atlases, maps and plans that have been made and/or published since the 16th century. Although the collection includes cartographic representations of every part of the world, the majority of the items portray Portugal and its former overseas domains.\n\nThe Iconographic collections contain around 117,000 images on paper and have constituted a specialised section of the Library since 1976. They were originally formed from three initial collections that belonged to the Rare Books and Manuscripts Division (Prints, Drawings, and Religious Pictures), but were organised into a separate collection when the Library became fully aware of their importance to the study of history, sociology, art and so on, and came to recognise their heritage value.\n\nThe BNP’s Music Collection is one of the most important in Portugal, and is especially useful for historical and musicological research. It contains more than 50,000 items ranging from the 12th to the 20th centuries, most of which were produced in Portugal. In addition to printed and manuscript scores, it offers books and periodicals on musical subjects, librettos, programmes, posters, photographs, a variety of personal and institutional archives and other material linked to the production of music and musical recordings.\n\nThe reading service for the Visually Impaired has held and produced works in Braille and audio books since 1969. The service uses the paper, magnetic tape and digital formats. It has more than 7,000 items in Braille, including 4,000 musical works, and 1,575 audio titles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23948440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23948440", "title": "Canadian Western Bank v Alberta", "text": "Canadian Western Bank v Alberta\n\nCanadian Western Bank v Alberta [2007] 2 S.C.R. 3 is a landmark decision in Canadian constitutional law by the Supreme Court of Canada (SCC) relating to the division of powers between Federal and Provincial legislative bodies.\n\nIn 2000, Alberta enacted changes to its \"Insurance Act\" purporting to make federally chartered banks subject to the provincial licensing scheme governing the promotion of insurance products. Upon the coming into force of that Act, the Bank, together with other chartered banks, brought an application for a declaration:\n\n\nThe trial court dismissed the bank application and said:\n\n\nThe appeal court reaffirmed the trial court decision.\n\nThe Supreme Court reaffirmed the appeal court.\n\nThe \"Insurance Act\" and its associated regulations apply to the banks' promotion of insurance. The fact that Parliament allows a bank to enter into a provincially regulated line of business such as insurance cannot, by federal statute, unilaterally broaden the scope of an exclusive federal legislative power granted by the \"Constitution Act, 1867\".\n\nIt was emphasized by the Court that all constitutional legal challenges to legislation should follow the same approach:\n\n\nIf the constitutionality of legislation is being questioned in relation to the division of powers under the \"Constitution Act, 1867\", an analysis of its pith and substance must be undertaken. There is an inquiry into the true nature of the law in question for the purpose of identifying the matter to which it essentially relates.\n\n\nThe pith and substance doctrine is founded on the recognition that it is in practice impossible for a legislature to exercise its jurisdiction over a matter effectively without incidentally affecting matters within the jurisdiction of another level of government.\n\nAlso, some matters are by their very nature impossible to categorize under a single head of power: they may have both provincial and federal aspects. The double aspect doctrine, which applies in the course of a pith and substance analysis, ensures that the policies of the elected legislators of both levels of government are respected. The double aspect doctrine recognizes that both Parliament and the provincial legislatures can adopt valid legislation on a single subject depending on the perspective from which the legislation is considered, that is, depending on the various aspects of the matter in question.\n\nIn certain circumstances, however, the powers of one level of government must be protected against intrusions, even incidental ones, by the other level. The courts have developed the doctrines of interjurisdictional immunity and federal paramountcy.\n\nThe doctrine of interjurisdictional immunity recognizes that the Canadian Constitution is based on an allocation of exclusive powers to both levels of government, not concurrent powers, but the powers are bound to interact. It is a doctrine of limited application that should be restricted to its proper limit.\n\nInterjurisdictional immunity should in general be reserved for situations already covered by precedent. In practice, it is largely reserved for heads of power that deal with federal things, persons, or undertakings, or if, in the past, its application has been considered absolutely indispensable or necessary to achieve the purpose for which exclusive legislative jurisdiction was conferred, as discerned from the constitutional division of powers as a whole, or what is absolutely indispensable or necessary to enable an undertaking to carry out its mandate in what makes it specifically of one jurisdiction or the other.\n\nWhile in theory, a consideration of interjurisdictional immunity is apt for consideration after the pith and substance analysis, in practice, the absence of prior case law favouring its application to the subject matter at hand will generally justify a court proceeding directly to the consideration of federal paramountcy.\n\nEven if the doctrine of interjurisdictional immunity is properly available, the level of the intrusion on the core of the power of the other level of government must be considered. To trigger the application of the immunity, it is not enough for the provincial legislation simply to affect that which makes a federal subject or object of rights specifically of federal jurisdiction. The difference between \"affects\" and \"impairs\" is that the former does not imply any adverse consequence whereas the latter does. In the absence of impairment, interjurisdictional immunity does not apply. It is only if the adverse impact of a law adopted by one level of government increases in severity from affecting to impairing that the core competence of the other level of government or the vital or essential part of an undertaking it duly constitutes is placed in jeopardy.\n\nAccording to the doctrine of federal paramountcy, if the operational effects of provincial legislation are incompatible with federal legislation, the federal legislation must prevail and the provincial legislation is rendered inoperative to the extent of the incompatibility. The doctrine applies not only to cases in which the provincial legislature has legislated pursuant to its ancillary power to trench on an area of federal jurisdiction, but also to situations in which the provincial legislature acts within its primary powers, and Parliament pursuant to its ancillary powers. To trigger the application of the doctrine, the onus is on the party relying on the doctrine of federal paramountcy to demonstrate that the federal and provincial laws are in fact incompatible by establishing either that it is impossible to comply with both laws or that to apply the provincial law would frustrate the purpose of the federal law.\n\n"}
{"id": "47262210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47262210", "title": "Companies Office", "text": "Companies Office\n\nThe New Zealand Companies Office (a service of the New Zealand Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment) is a government agency that provides business registry services in relation to corporate entities, personal property and capital market securities. It delivers nearly all its services through electronic systems and the internet.\n\nIts registers relate to companies, personal property securities, superannuation funds, incorporated societies, building societies, charitable trusts, unit trusts, friendly societies and credit unions. The office also has compliance, prosecution and enforcement functions under the Companies Act, Securities Act, Corporations (Investigation and Management) Act 1989, Financial Reporting Act along with others.\n\nThe Companies Register's website includes an electronic register available to the public 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and provides the online searching, incorporation and maintenance services for New Zealand registered companies or other body corporates.\n\nThe Companies Office was the first government corporate registry in the world to allow access over the Internet to statutory corporate information. The site went live in 1996. In 1999 the Companies Office was the first in the world to allow the incorporation of companies over the Internet.\n\nThe Companies Office is also responsible for the administration of the following registers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35687352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35687352", "title": "Concio (Venice)", "text": "Concio (Venice)\n\nThe Concio (from the Latin contio, \"assembly\"), in the Republic of Venice, was the general assembly of freemen (citizens and patricians) from which the Doge was elected. It was in use between the years 742 and 1423 before it lost its function when the \"Serrata del Maggior Consiglio\" passed power into the hands of the aristocratic class interior.\n\nThe origin of the popular assembly is uncertain. Assemblies of free men were already in existence in the 6th–7th centuries in various cities of maritime Venice for the election of local magistrates (or tribunes). Although the Venetian traditions called for a general meeting of Venetians, in 697 the appointment of the first Doge, Paolo Lucio Anafesto, would have been the prerogative of the Byzantine Emperor through the Exarchate of Ravenna.\n\nThe first actual election was probably that of the third Doge, Orso Ipato, when in 726 the Venetians, rejecting measures imposed by iconoclasts of the 'Byzantine emperor Leo III the Isaurian, chose their own leadership autonomously. Upon the death of Orso however, the Byzantines replaced the government with a ducal courts annually in the \"magistri militum\" until 742 when the emperor formally granted the populate the right to elect the Doge.\n\nThe power of the assembly at this time had yet be precisely defined and author John Deacon reports that in 887 Doge Giovanni Participazio II had to reaffirm that it was the responsibility of the people's assembly to elect the Doge.\n\nDespite the power delegated to the Concio, over time several Dukes tried to change the assembly,turning the monarchy from being an elective into a hereditary arrangement. One strategy chosen was to circumvent the electoral power of the Concio by associating the throne with a co-regent, also called co-Dux, selected from children or close relatives. This person would, on the death of the Doge, automatically succeed him, with the co-regent being already on the throne and thus in a position of strength.\n\nIt is unclear what role that the Assembly had at the time in the coronation of coreggenti, and whether it could exert some form of confirmation of their appointment. However between the 8th and 11th centuries, there were at least fifteen coreggenti that were associated with the throne.\n\nThis chaotic phase was resolved in 1032 when the Concio refused to recognize the coronation of Domenico Orseolo and appointed Flabanico Domenico in his place. At this time the Concio enacted the first law of the Constitutional Republic. This law forbade the practice of association to the throne, separated the perpetual Orseoli from the government, and provided two ducal councilors for the Doge, to constantly supervise his actions.\n\nAfter this period the Concio in effect was the supreme arbiter of the state. It now faced the need to create permanent organizations that were able to replace the previous ducal power structures. At the same time, the ancient noble families were no longer committed to push for a hereditary sovereign and began to form, along with other prominent families, a class of aristocrats able to influence and direct the city politics.\n\nIn 1143, the city installed its first Consilium Sapientium, who was appointed by and responsible to support the Doge permanently in government. The new communal form of the State was sanctioned by the \"Veneciarum Commune\" (\"City of Venice\") documents.\n\nThe first step that marked the beginning of the decline of the power of Concio occurred in 1172. At this time, the Consilium Sapientium, became the Great Council and was entrusted with the ordinary legislative power. Also at this time, it decided to entrust the election ducal seven elected by voters. A second event came six years later in 1178 when the Concio lost significant control over the appointment of the doge. From that, the seven electors from this nominated no longer directly choose the Doge: they instead began to raffle four with the task of appointing the forty ducal actual voters. The Council of Forty sold out the task and then remained in power as an assembly of the government and as a supreme court.\n\nIn 1207 the appointment of members of the Great Council was entrusted to a small group of three voters and then subsequently increased to seven in 1230. A consequence of this choices was that the aristocratic part increased in these municipal bodies. The status quo of popular power supported by an aristocratic power cracked in 1286 when two attempts, rejected, to foreclose access to the Great Council families popular, marked the opening of hostilities between the two factions. Rejected again in 1296, with difficulty, the proposed Serrata was finally approved at the urging of the Doge Pietro Gradenigo on 28 February 1297.\n\nAfter these events, in 1300 and in 1310 a plot of Marin Bocconio and Tiepolo attempted a restoration of the people. However, these failed and the aristocratic form of the state was now a reality.\n\nDeprived of any real power, the Concio of the People survived only as a formal meeting at dell'acclamazione under the new Doge that was elected. The body still presented the crowd with a ritual phrase:\n\nThe meeting was at this point useless and officially abolished in 1423. However, the custom of ritual request for approval to the people remained in use until the fall of the Republic in 1797.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47289700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47289700", "title": "Consumer Protection Act (Quebec)", "text": "Consumer Protection Act (Quebec)\n\nThe Consumer Protection Act () is a Quebec law which gives protections to consumers in dealing with merchants and businesses. It requires merchants to deal honestly in all matters of advertising, and in fair contracts.\n\nThe Act applies to all contracts made in Quebec between a consumer and a merchant, in its capacity of conducting its business. The contract can be either for a product or a service.\n\nThe main purpose of the act is to level out inequalities in bargaining power between the consumer and the merchant. The law annuls any contract term that contravenes this (similarly to, say, the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 in the United Kingdom).\n\nIn the 1960s, consumerism became prominent in the United States, after its industrialisation. Market economies flourished. The consumer movement was a response in Europe, and in Canada, to what was perceived as overwhelming market forces to the detriment of the consumer.\n\nIn Quebec, the emergence of a consumerist movement cast a light on the absence of consumer protection laws, notably the lack of legal obligations for businesses: the law was \"caveat emptor\", let the buyer beware. But slowly, laws were introduced, culminating in the first Consumer Protection Act in 1971, pushed forward by the lawyer Claude Masse, who was later to become known as the main author of the law.\n\nImportant amendments were made to the Act in 1978, seven years after the law was first adopted: these were mostly about advertising and guarantees (warranties). After this first major reform, several other smaller amendments have been enacted to cover new commercial practices.\n\nAs an example, on 8 June 2011, the Quebec government ran through the \"\" (Bill 24). This white paper reformed and re-established the rights and responsibilities of the Act for consumer credit contracts and mortgages; it put new responsibilities on lenders.\n\nSome contracts, especially those concerning credit terms that are established between a consumer and a merchant, must be made in writing. The law requires such contracts to be written in French language and signed by both parties, a copy to be given to the consumer.\n\nA consumer has some minimal legal rights over the form of the contract, for example not to be held hostage over latent defects in the product, and that a guarantee will do what it says.\n\nContracts that are negotiated at a distance rather than in person (be it by post, email, telephone or Internet) without the personal presence of the merchant's negotiator have specific extra rights. The consumer may, within seven days, annul the contract.\nThe LPC allows internet trade but fixes the boundaries.. The rules state, amongst other things, that the consumer's consent must be obtained and also enforces lots of small print in the contract. In some circumstances, the seven-day rule can be extended.\n\nA change of mind by the consumer should not imply that the seller was in any bad faith, but the object of the law is to give a \"cooling off period\" where the consumer may change his mind. If a seller wishes to enter into such a market, it is the seller's risk to do so: caveat vendor. That risk cannot be transferred to the consumer.\n\nAll credit contracts are covered by the Act. Responsibility for issuing credit is that of the creditor, that is, the merchant. The Act requires all creditors to inform them of any issuance. It is perfectly legal to ask the consumer to pay a premium for credit card purchases or any other form of credit, or to buy a car or motorcycle on lease, but the rate of charge must be declared to the consumer.\n\nThe law is intended to prevent exorbitant interest rates, and discourage meaningless guarantees. Recourse to the law is via the civil courts, as detailed below. The aim of the law is to make sure a fair price is paid for the credit and to give the consumer rights of redress if he thinks he has been overcharged.\n\nThe right is reserved for merchants, producers and advertisers to make representation to the Act or to negotiate with the consumer. For example, if it is a matter of credit, there are a series of measures relating to advertising. Without exception, sellers must clearly state the prices they will charge for credit. Some things given as \"guarantees\" must also be divulged to the consumer up-front. In general, advertising must be honest. Advertising to children less than thirteen years of age is forbidden.\n\nSome traders, notably itinerant traders (\"hawker\"s and \"busker\"s), may be excluded from these rules, if they have a permit issued by the Office de la protection du consommateur (the Office). The law gives authority to the Office that in certain circumstances it may suspend, annul, or refuse to issue such permits.\n\nSeveral avenues are available through the Quebec civil law system if a consumer believes he has been mistreated.\n\nThe consumer may demand that the contract be annulled if there is no evidence that he signed it, and it is the trader's responsibility to show he had.\n\nAt the last resort, the usual rules of the Civil Code of Quebec can be enforced in court, and the Act may ask for damages. This rarely happens, though, because usually cases are agreed between the merchant and the consumer before it comes to court.\n\nWere it to come to it, the court can place impositions on the trader to remove or amend terms in their consumer contracts, or to stop them trading altogether.\n\nThe \"Office de la protection du consommateur\" is established under the Act with responsibility to ensure the law is obeyed. Its remit, for overseeing the consumer protection laws, in practice comes in two parts:\n\nThe Office is also responsible for registering consumer complaints, researching them, and publishing the results of its research in mass media. The Office does not, itself, take on the role of a prosecutor with any case that a consumer may wish to bring against a merchant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2383519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2383519", "title": "Delegata potestas non potest delegari", "text": "Delegata potestas non potest delegari\n\nDelegata potestas non potest delegari is a principle in constitutional and administrative law that means in Latin that \"no delegated powers can be further delegated.\" Alternatively, it can be stated delegatus non potest delegare (\"one to whom power is delegated cannot himself further delegate that power\").\n\nThe principle is present in several jurisdictions such as that of the United States, the United Kingdom and India as well as in Catholic canon law.\n\nThe principle was first articulated in Canada in 1943, in an article in the \"Canadian Bar Review\" by John Willis. While it is acknowledged as \"the seminal articulation of the law governing the subdelegation of statutory and discretionary powers\" and it is still often cited, it has not achieved the rigid standing that was originally intended. The maxim has had some success as an operating principle in the restriction of delegation of legislative and judicial powers, but the demands of modern governmental regulatory practices have inhibited its application in the delegation of administrative powers. Exceptions are rare and dependent on the statute conferring power.\n\nIn India, the law was first stated in \"A K ROY v. State Of Punjab\", (1986) 4 SCC 326, that sub delegation of delegated power is ultra vires to the Enabling Act.\n\nIn United States, one of the earliest mentions of the principle occurred when it was cited by counsel for one of the litigants before the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in 1794, in \"M'Intire v. Cunningham\", 1 Yeates 363 (Pa. 1794). The summary of the case reports, \"Mr. Wilson had given no power to Noarth to transact his business; but if he even had, it is a maxim, that delegata potestas non potest delegari.\"\n\nThe maxim was first cited by the Supreme Court of the United States in \"United States v. Sav. Bank\", 104 U.S. 728 (1881) in which the case summary reports that one of the litigants argued, \"The duty imposed by statute on the commissioner cannot be delegated to a collector. Delegata potestas non potest delegari.\"\n\nIn Australia the maxim has been largely superseded by Statute and common law.There is a long line of authorities applying the Carltona principles to Australia.\n\nThough courts have found that where a stature expressly requires a personal action, such delegation is not possible.\n\nIn \"Dooney\" The High Court of Australia(Callinan J), observed that \"No permanent head of a department in the Public Service is expected to discharge personally all the duties which are performed in his name and for which he is accountable to the responsible Minister.\"\n\nThis caselaw has been backed up by legislation. Section 34AA and 34AAB of the federal governments Acts Interpretation Act 1901 clearly create a statutory power to delegate, contrary to the maxim. The federal legislation is echoed in some state legislation \n\nCanon 137 of the \"1983 Code of Canon Law\" states:\n\n"}
{"id": "13456233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13456233", "title": "Electric Transit, Inc.", "text": "Electric Transit, Inc.\n\nElectric Transit, Inc. (ETI) was a joint venture between the Škoda group in the Czech Republic and AAI Corporation in the United States which made trolleybuses for the Dayton and San Francisco trolleybus systems, constructing a total of 330 trolleybuses. ETI was formed in 1994, and ownership was divided as 65% by Škoda and 35% by AAI. The latter was a wholly owned subsidiary of United Industrial Corporation. Up to that time, Škoda had built more than 12,000 trolleybuses since 1935, but none for cities outside Europe and Asia.\n\nThe company was awarded its first contract in November 1994, when the Miami Valley Regional Transit Authority, of Dayton, Ohio placed an order for 63 two-axle trolleybuses. The order was later reduced to 61 vehicles, and ultimately to 57. Three prototype trolleybuses were delivered in December 1995 and January 1996. These were designated by ETI as model 14TrE, the E standing for \"export\", and were given fleet numbers 9601–9603 by MVRTA. Following modifications to the design, construction of the 54 production-series ETI trolleybuses for Dayton took place in 1998–99. These were model 14TrE2 and were numbered 9801–9854 in MVRTA's fleet. Among the modifications were the moving of the wheelchair lift from the rear door to the front door, which necessitated widening the body from to and changing from a one-piece windshield to a two-piece one.\n\nIn July 1997, the San Francisco Municipal Railway (Muni) contracted with ETI for the provision of 250 trolleybuses, comprising 220 standard/two-axle () and 30 articulated () vehicles. ETI designated the two types for San Francisco as models 14TrSF and 15TrSF, respectively. In February 2000, Muni exercised contract options to purchase an additional 20 two-axle and three articulated vehicles. Two prototypes for the two-axle trolleybuses (numbered 5401–5402) were received by Muni in January 1999 and June 1999, respectively, while an articulated prototype (No. 7101) was received in April 2000. The 238 production-series two-axle trolleybuses (Nos. 5403–5640) were delivered between May 2001 and early 2004. The production-series articulateds (7102–7133) were all delivered in 2003. All 273 of Muni's ETI trolleybuses had entered service by April 2004.\n\nWith both the Dayton and San Francisco orders, the chassis/body-frame (or shell) and motors of each vehicle were fabricated at Škoda's plant in Ostrov nad Ohří, Czech Republic, then shipped to a facility in Hunt Valley, Maryland (near other AAI facilities) for initial fitting-out. Except in the case of the prototypes, final fitting-out was undertaken in leased premises located in the two cities purchasing the vehicles, Dayton and San Francisco.\n\nETI originally was based in Dayton, but after completion of the contract for that city, the Dayton office was closed and ETI moved its administrative office to Hunt Valley, sharing space with partner AAI there.\nIn 2003, ETI engaged in a competitive bidding for a large contract (245 trolleybuses) being offered by TransLink, of Vancouver, B.C., Canada for supply of trolleybuses to the Vancouver trolleybus system, but lost out to New Flyer Industries. The joint venture did not seek any further new business, and in May 2004 it finalized an agreement with San Francisco Muni to transfer to Muni its remaining contractual obligations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52578739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52578739", "title": "Esteban vs. Brown", "text": "Esteban vs. Brown\n\n\"Esteban vs. Brown\" is a United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims case that dealt with the pyramiding rule.\n\nLeonardo Esteban appealed a Board of Veterans' Appeals (BVA) decision that denied entitlement to an increased rating for residuals of an injury to the right side of the face. Mr. Esteban served on active duty between July 1946 and April 1949. In January 1949, he injured his face during a motor vehicle accident in Japan.\n\nIn 1977, he attended a VA examination. The examination noted that there were four scars on the right side of his face. The report also detailed that there was an injury to the facial muscles and that he was experiencing pain in the area. The Veteran was ultimately granted service connection under diagnostic code 7800 at 10% disabling.\n\nIn 1988, while in the process of filing a claim for an increased evaluation, the Veteran provided medical evidence that he had paralysis on the right side of his face. BVA denied this claim for an increased evaluation. In June 1991, he filed again and provided medical evidence showing that he had impaired sensation on the side of his face and disfiguring scars. The report also showed that he had difficult with mastication and pain. The VA Regional Office denied a higher evaluation. The Board affirmed this decision, but conceded that the Veteran could be rated under diagnostic codes 7800, 7804 or 5325. However, the Board held that the Veteran was not entitled to multiple evaluations for the same disability. Therefore, the 10% disability was confirmed.\n\nThe Court rejected the argument by the Board. The Court noted that the rating criteria under diagnostic code 7800 was entirely cosmetic in nature, while the rating criteria under 7804 dealt only with the pain associated with the scarring itself. Additionally, diagnostic code 5325 only dealt with facial muscle damage resulting in difficulty with mastication. Therefore, his symptomatology was distinct and separate, thereby not in violation of 38. C.F.R. §4.14. For these reasons, the Court held that the Veteran was entitled to separate evaluations under all three diagnostic codes, as none of the symptomatology for any one of the three conditions were duplicative or overlapping of the other two conditions.\n\nThe appellant's motion was granted, the BVA decision reversed, and the case was remanded.\n"}
{"id": "33530052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33530052", "title": "European Public Hearing on European Conscience and Crimes of Totalitarian Communism: 20 Years After", "text": "European Public Hearing on European Conscience and Crimes of Totalitarian Communism: 20 Years After\n\nThe European Public Hearing on European Conscience and Crimes of Totalitarian Communism: 20 Years After was a European public hearing organised by the Czech Presidency of the European Union in the European Parliament on 18 March 2009. The hearing was described by the Presidency as \"the third step towards the establishment of a European Platform of Memory and Conscience to support the activities of institutions engaged in reconciling with totalitarian regimes in Europe.\"\n\nThe hearing was hosted by the Deputy Prime Minister for European Affairs Alexandr Vondra and the Permanent Representative of the Czech Republic to the European Union Milena Vicenová on behalf of the Czech Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in cooperation with MEPs supporting the Prague Declaration.\n\nThe first session, chaired by Tunne Kelam MEP, included speeches by Pavel Žáček (Director, Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes), Emmanuel Crabit (European Commission Directorate-General of Justice, Freedom and Security), Emanuelis Zingeris (Chairman, International Commission for the Evaluation of the Crimes of the Nazi and Soviet Occupation Regimes in Lithuania), Marius Oprea (Institute for the Investigation of Communist Crimes in Romania), Hans Altendorf (Office of the Federal Commissioner for the Stasi Records), Vasil Kadrinov (Hannah Arendt Center), Nicolas Werth (Institute for Contemporary History, CNRS), and Camilla Andersson (Institute for Information on the Crimes of Communism).\n\nThe second session, chaired by Jana Hybášková MEP, included speeches by Alexandr Vondra (Deputy Prime Minister for European Affairs of the Czech Republic), Ján Figeľ (European Commissioner for Education), Alejo Vidal-Quadras MEP (Vice President of the European Parliament), Jan Zahradil MEP, László Tökés MEP, and Sandra Kalniete (former European Commissioner).\n\nThe conclusions called for \"the establishment of the Platform of European Memory and Conscience\" and supported the proclamation of the European Day of Remembrance for Victims of Stalinism and Nazism.\n\nThe hearing was followed by a resolution of the European Parliament on European conscience and totalitarianism of 2 April 2009.\n"}
{"id": "5705169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5705169", "title": "Exhibit (legal)", "text": "Exhibit (legal)\n\nAn exhibit, in a criminal prosecution or a civil trial, is physical or documentary evidence brought before the jury. The artifact or document itself is presented for the jury's inspection. Examples may include a weapon allegedly used in the crime, an invoice or written contract, a photograph, or a video recording.\n\nThe main concept behind correct evidence handling is that the item recovered is the same as that produced in the court room.\n\nThe usual term applied to such handling is \"chain of custody\". The term denotes the links in the handling of the exhibit in question. For example, details of the item, the place, date, time it was recovered, and by whom it was recovered - the first link. The subsequent links in the chain refer to anyone required to handle the exhibit, mainly for identification purposes. The final link is the production of the item in court. This particular level of auditable handling is paramount when dealing with items of a forensic nature, as it reduces the opportunity for the defense to challenge the authenticity of the item.\n\nThe chain of custody can be less stringent when dealing with property which has a unique identifying feature like a serial number. In such a case, the physical security becomes the main concern of the person recovering the item. Such security is normally achieved by booking the item into a central evidence room.\n\nThe exhibits in any one law case are often labelled Exhibit A, Exhibit B, Exhibit C, etc. to distinguish between them.\n\nIn personal injury cases, a legal or medical exhibit is created containing drawings or illustrations of human anatomy with graphic, medically accurate depictions of injuries and surgeries sustained by the plaintiff as a result of an accident or injury. Legal exhibits are commonly used by trial attorneys in personal injury cases to maximize the value of the case, enhance settlement negotiations, increase effectiveness of medical expert testimony and maximize trial presentation. The most common types of personal injury claims are road traffic accidents, accidents at work, tripping accidents, assault claims, accidents in the home, product defect accidents (product liability) and holiday accidents. This also includes medical or dental accidents and wrongful death cases resulting from the negligence of a health care provider.\n"}
{"id": "3757192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3757192", "title": "Gaming control board", "text": "Gaming control board\n\nA gaming control board (GCB), also called by various names including gambling control board, casino control board, gambling board, and gaming commission) is a government agency charged with regulating casino and other types of gaming in a defined geographical area, usually a state, and of enforcing gaming law in general. The official name of this regulatory body varies among jurisdictions.\n\nGaming control boards are usually responsible for promulgating rules and regulations that dictate how gaming activities are to be conducted within a jurisdiction. The rules and regulations stem from the jurisdiction's enabling act. Generally, the enabling act is passed by the legislature and sets forth the broad policy of the jurisdiction with regard to gaming; while the rules and regulations provide detailed requirements that must be satisfied by a gaming establishment, its owners, employees, and vendors. Typically, rules and regulations cover a broad range of activity, including licensing, accounting systems, rules of casino games, and auditing.\n\nGaming control boards also have complete authority to grant or deny licenses to gaming establishments, their ownership, employees, and vendors. Generally, in order to obtain a license, an applicant must demonstrate that they possess good character, honesty and integrity. License application forms typically require detailed personal information. Based upon the type of license being sought, an applicant may also be required to disclose details regarding previous business relationships, employment history, criminal records, and financial stability.\n\nGenerally, the gaming license application process and subsequent investigation is quite burdensome in comparison to the process of obtaining other government-issued licenses. The difficulty of the process is intended to dissuade participation by unsavory people and organized crime.\n\nRecently, in order to simplify the application process, various gaming control boards have collaborated on the design of \"multi-jurisdictional\" application forms. Persons or vendors who are involved in gaming in multiple jurisdictions may now complete one application form and submit copies to each jurisdiction.\n\nIn some cases, Gaming Control Boards are responsible for enforcing the rules and regulations that they create. In other cases, a separate body or a division of the Gaming Control Board carries out the enforcement function. Most Gaming Control Boards have full authority to hear and decide civil cases brought before them by the enforcement body and thus are considered quasi-judicial bodies.\n\n\n\nIn Canada, gambling is regulated exclusively by the provinces rather than federal law. Regulatory agencies include:\n\nIn the United States, gambling is legal under federal law, although there are significant restrictions pertaining to interstate and online gambling.\nIndividual states have the right to regulate or prohibit the practice within their borders. Regulatory agencies include:\nIn the United States, some Native American tribal nations have established their own gaming control boards for the purpose of regulating tribe-owned casinos located within reservations. Although the tribal nation also owns the casino, appointing an independent gaming control board to oversee regulatory activities provides tribal members with assurances that the casino is operated within expected standards and that tribal revenue is accurately collected and reported. Native American casinos are subject to the provisions of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, which is enforced by the National Indian Gaming Commission (NIGC). The NIGC establishes minimum internal control standards and other requirements that each Native American gaming control board must follow. However, the NIGC does not have jurisdiction over state-regulated entities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45374432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45374432", "title": "Godbold's Vegetable Balsam", "text": "Godbold's Vegetable Balsam\n\nGodbold's Vegetable Balsam was an English patent medicine concocted by Nathaniel Godbold (d.1799) in 1785, and produced by Godbold and later his sons into the 19th century.\n\nGodbold was originally a gingerbread baker, but his product became one of the best-selling patent medicines of the 18th century for syphilis and various other maladies. Though profits tailed off after the first ten years, Godbold made a small fortune and purchased a country estate from his profits.\n\nAfter his death in 1799, his epitaph at the Church of St. Peter & St. Paul, Godalming was a literal advertisement for the product. The 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica even cited the epitaph in its entirety in its entry for advertising:\n\nAn examination of the product around 1808 noted \"we do not discover any property that can possibly entitle it to the appellation of a balsam, but the propriety of the term vegetable, we cannot dispute, as vinegar, sugar, and honey are vegetable productions.\" The product claimed to be produced from forty-two different vegetables, preserved separately in syrups, mixed with other gums and ingredients, and dissolved in double-distilled vinegar with some storax dissolved in spirits of wine and oil of cinnamon. It was then claimed to be bottled and held for three years before use. These elaborate directions would be impossible to ever follow, and scientific observers concluded the product was simply an \"oxymel\" (a form of mead created from honey and wine vinegar), though at times with some variation in ingredients.\n\n"}
{"id": "229100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229100", "title": "Hearsay in United States law", "text": "Hearsay in United States law\n\nHearsay is the legal term for certain statements—offered as evidence during a trial or hearing for the purpose of attempting to prove the truth of the matter asserted in the statements—that were not made while testifying at the trial or hearing itself. In general, the witness will attempt to make a statement such as, \"Sally told me Tom was in town\" (for the purpose of proving that Tom was indeed \"in town\"), as opposed to \"I saw Tom in town.\" Hearsay is not allowed as evidence in the United States, unless one of nearly thirty exceptions applies to the particular statement being made.\n\nThe hearsay rule is an analytic rule of evidence that defines hearsay and provides for both exceptions and exemptions from that rule. There is no all-encompassing definition of hearsay in the United States. However, most evidentiary codes defining hearsay adopt verbatim the rule as laid out in the Federal Rules of Evidence, which reads: F.R.E. 801: Hearsay is a statement that the declarant does not make while testifying at the current trial or hearing; and a party offers that statement in evidence to prove the truth of the matter asserted in the statement.In this, the phrase \"Out-of-court\" is shorthand for any statement other than one made under oath and in front of the factfinder (the jury, or the judge in a bench trial) during the same proceeding in which it is being offered in evidence. \"Matter asserted\" means the matter asserted in the statement offered into evidence, not the matter \"asserted\" by the party offering the evidence. Evidence typically is introduced to support not just one proposition but a series of propositions, linked together in an inferential chain. If \"any one\" of the propositions in the inferential chain is \"the truth of the matter asserted\" in the out-of-court statement, the evidence falls within the traditional definition of hearsay. The declarant is the person that makes the out-of-court statement—not the person bringing the action (lawsuit).\n\nNote: In \"hearsay\" law, \"witness\" means someone who testifies under oath, from the witness stand and \"declarant\" refers to someone who makes a statement of any kind, whether or not under oath, and whether in or out of court (according to the Federal Rules of Evidence).\n\nIn \"everyday\" law, \"witness\" means someone who sees or observes something and \"declarant\" means someone who says something under oath. The distinctions in the definitions of these words is important to consider in hearsay law.\n\nHistorically, the rule against hearsay was aimed at prohibiting the use of another person's statement, as equivalent to testimony by the witness to the fact. Unless the second person is brought to testify in court where they may be placed under oath and cross-examined, the factfinder cannot gauge the witness' credibility.\n\nThe theory of the rule excluding hearsay is that assertions made by human beings are often unreliable; such statements are often insincere, subject to flaws in memory and perception, or infected with errors in narration at the time they are given. Furthermore, someone testifying in court regarding another's out-of-court statement may have misheard or misremembered that statement, in addition to possibly having misinterpreted the speaker's sincerity, etc. The law therefore finds it necessary to subject this form of evidence to \"scrutiny or analysis calculated to discover and expose in detail its possible weaknesses, and thus to enable the tribunal (judge or jury) to estimate it at no more than its actual value\".\n\nThree tests are calculated to expose possible weaknesses in a statement:\n\nAssertions not subject to these three tests are (with some exceptions) prohibited insofar as they are offered testimonially (for the truth of what they assert).\n\nThe Federal Rules of Evidence (See Article VIII) provide a general definition of hearsay as a \"statement, other than one made by the declarant while testifying at the trial or hearing, offered in evidence to prove the truth of the matter asserted\". Subject to two classes of \"exemptions\", this definition classifies a statement as hearsay if the statement meets two requirements: (1) the statement must be extrajudicial (i.e. not made by this witness in this proceeding). (2) The statement must be offered to prove the truth of what the statement asserts if anything.\n\nHowever, as noted below, the Federal Rules of Evidence also provide two specific categories of \"exemptions\" of certain kinds of statements from this rule; statements in these categories are defined as \"Non-hearsay\".\n\nTypically, one can classify a statement as hearsay under the Federal Rules of Evidence using a three-step analysis. A statement will be considered hearsay if it is:\n\n\nAn \"assertive statement\" is generally defined as the intentional communication of fact. Under the Federal Rules of Evidence, an assertive statement can be oral, written, or non-verbal conduct if it was intended to be an assertion. However, any verbal or non-verbal conduct that was not intended to communicate a fact will not be considered an assertive statement.\n\nIn order for the statement to satisfy the \"out-of-court declarant\" element of hearsay, very simply stated, the statement must have been made outside of the courtroom that the present proceeding is taking place in—meaning that if the statement was made in another courtroom, it is still made by an \"out-of-court\" declarant.\n\nLastly, if a statement is being offered for its truth—meaning that its relevance depends upon the jury believing the substance of the statement—then it is being offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted therein. If a statement is relevant for any other purpose other than proving the truth of the matter asserted therein, then the statement will not be considered hearsay under the Federal Rules of Evidence.\n\nGenerally in common law courts the \"hearsay rule\" applies, which says that a trier of fact (judge or jury) cannot be informed of a hearsay statement unless it meets certain strict requirements. However, the rules for admissibility are more relaxed in court systems based on the civil law system. In the civil law system, the courts, whether consisting only of judges or featuring a jury, have wide latitude to appreciate the evidence brought before them.\n\n[Note: Louisiana, a civil-law jurisdiction, does not share the above referenced feature generally found in civil-law jurisdictions. With few exceptions, Louisiana follows rules predicated upon the Federal Rules of Evidence.]\n\nFurthermore, even in common-law systems, the hearsay rule only applies to actual trials. Hearsay is admissible as evidence in many other judicial proceedings, such as grand jury deliberations, probation hearings, parole revocation hearings, and proceedings before administrative bodies.\n\nIn criminal law, \"Crawford v. Washington\", 541 U.S. 36 (2004), reformulated the standard for determining when the admission of hearsay statements in criminal cases is permitted under the Confrontation Clause of the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution. \"Crawford\" gives enhanced protection to defendants when the hearsay offered against them is testimonial in nature. When a statement is deliberately accusatory, or when the declarant knows that the statement is likely to be used in the prosecution of the defendant for a crime, the need for face-to-face confrontation is at its highest. When statements are directly accusatory, the defense needs an opportunity to explore the accuser's motives. Where statements are the product of police interrogation, there is a need to ensure that the testimony is not the product of improper coercion or intimidation.\n\n\"Ohio v. Roberts\", 448 U.S. 56 (1980), set forth a two-pronged test in order for hearsay to be admissible against a criminal defendant: (1) the declarant generally must be shown to be unavailable; and (2) the statement must have been made under circumstances providing sufficient \"indicia of reliability\". With respect to the second prong, a reliability determination may assume that hearsay is sufficiently reliable for constitutional purposes if it satisfies a \"firmly rooted\" hearsay exception. In practice this means that lower courts need to make reliability determinations only for hearsay that is offered under a \"catchall\" exception, such as Federal Rule of Evidence Rule 807, or under new or non-traditional hearsay exceptions that are not \"firmly rooted\". However, \"Crawford v. Washington\" overruled \"Ohio v. Roberts\".\n\nOne major misconception about the hearsay rule is that hearsay is never admissible in court. While the general rule is that such evidence is inadmissible, there are many exceptions.\n\nThere are two other common misconceptions concerning the hearsay rule. The first is that hearsay applies only to oral statements. The hearsay rule applies to all out-of-court statements whether oral, written or otherwise. The Federal Rules of Evidence defines a statement as an oral or written assertion or nonverbal conduct of a person, if the conduct is intended by the person as an assertion. Even written documents made under oath, such as affidavits or notarized statements, are subject to the 'hearsay rule'.\n\nThe second common misconception is that all out-of-court statements are hearsay. This is not the case. An out of court statement may or may not be hearsay depending on the purpose for which it is offered. If the statement is being offered to prove the truth of what it asserts, then it becomes hearsay. When offered for any other purpose the statement is not hearsay. For example: Witness testifies that yesterday he spoke to Jim (who was in Vermont) on the phone and that Jim made the following statement, \"It's raining in Vermont!\" If the attorney is seeking to use this statement to prove that it was in fact raining in Vermont, then it is hearsay. But, if the attorney is seeking to use the statement to prove that the phone lines were working that day, or that Jim had not lost the power of speech, or for any other purpose, then the statement is not being offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted, and therefore it is not hearsay.\n\nConsider an additional example:\n\nIn the first trial, the issue is whether John attempted to kill Monica. The officer is asked to testify to what he heard Monica scream from inside the house: \"Help, John is trying to kill me!\" This statement would be hearsay. The officer is being asked to testify to what Monica said to prove that John attempted to murder Monica. Unless the attorney can show that this statement falls within an exception to the hearsay rule, the factfinder (the judge or jury) may not consider Monica's statement (this particular statement, however, would likely be admissible because of \"Excited Utterance\" and \"Present sense impression\" exceptions).\n\nIn the second trial, however, the issue is not whether John tried to kill Monica but rather whether the officer's entry into the home was lawful. Here, the statement is not being offered to prove that John tried to kill Monica, but it instead is being offered to prove that the officer had probable cause to enter the home. Whether John was actually trying to kill Monica is irrelevant to the issue at hand; what matters is whether the officer \"believed\" that Monica was in danger and whether it had been necessary to kick down the door to investigate further. Monica's statement is evidence to that effect because a reasonable person, having heard Monica's cries for help, would fear for her safety.\n\nA person's \"own\" prior statements can be hearsay. For example, suppose a person is testifying on the stand. In relation to an automobile accident where a blue truck struck a yellow car, the witness testifies, \"I told the police officer the truck was blue\" to establish the color of the car (as opposed to whether he had lied to police, or the officer had falsified the witness reports). This statement is an out-of-court statement offered for the purpose of proving the truth of the matter asserted, and is therefore hearsay. The witness is testifying about what someone said in the past. The fact that it is his own statement does not change the hearsay nature of the statement.\n\nIf the witness testifies, \"The truck that struck the yellow car was blue,\" the statement is \"not\" hearsay. The witness is not testifying about a past statement. He is not relating in court what someone outside of court said, but is merely relating an observation.\n\nThe rule that a person's own statements can be considered hearsay may be confusing. By \"forgetting\" who is testifying on the stand and merely looking for statements like \"I said\", \"I wrote\", \"I testified before that\", \"The document says\", and the like, most confusion can be eliminated.\n\nIn this example, simple logic tells that there is a difference: while the first statement may be true, it does not assert anything about the truth of the matter stated. The witness may have told the officer that the truck was blue, but that may not have been the truth; he might have been mistaken or lying.\n\nUnder the Federal Rules of Evidence, two broad categories of statements are exempt from the rule's general definition. These are referred to as hearsay \"exemptions\" and are of two types:\n\nAn admission by a party-opponent is a statement offered against another party that meets one of five criteria:\n\nThe theory underlying this \"exemption\" is derived from the nature of the hearsay rule itself. The hearsay rule operates to exclude extrajudicial assertions as untrustworthy because they cannot be tested by cross-examination. When an assertion is offered into evidence against the defendant and the defendant objects, \"hearsay\", the defendant is in essence saying \"I object to this statement as untrustworthy because I am not afforded an opportunity to cross-examine the person who made it. How can we trust what he said?\" But what if the defendant is the person who made the statement that is now being offered against him? To object, \"hearsay\" in this circumstance would be as absurd as to argue, \"This statement is unreliable because \"I\" cannot cross-examine myself; therefore, how can I trust what I said?\" In this situation the objection of the Hearsay rule falls away, because the very basis of the rule is lacking, viz. the need and prudence of affording an opportunity of cross-examination. Another way of looking at it is that a defendant who faces his own statement being used against him \"has\" an opportunity to cross-examine himself – he can take the witness stand and explain his prior assertion, so the rule is satisfied.\n\nA prior statement is not hearsay if the person who made the statement (the \"declarant\") is currently testifying and is subject to cross-examination at the current trial/hearing/proceeding/deposition, and\n\n\nSome statements are defined as hearsay, but may nevertheless be admissible as evidence in court. These statements relate to \"exceptions\" to the general rule on hearsay. Some (but not all) exceptions to the hearsay rule apply only when the declarant is unavailable for testimony at the trial or hearing.\n\nMany of the exceptions listed below are treated more extensively in individual articles.\n\n\n\nIn some jurisdictions, such as Canada, the limited exceptions format to the rule have been replaced by a more general theory of exceptions to the hearsay rule that allows courts to decide when documents, testimony or other evidentiary proof can be used that might not otherwise be considered. \n\nThe underlying rationale for many of the hearsay exceptions is that the circumstances of a particular statement make them reliable enough to be heard by a trier of fact. Statements made during the course of medical treatment, for example, are considered reliable because patients typically have little reason to lie to a doctor while they are being treated, and will generally be accurate in describing their ailments.\n\nThis, of course, is not always true. Patients do sometimes lie to their doctors (to get painkillers to which they are not entitled, for example). Hearsay exceptions do not mandate that a trier of fact (the jury or, in non-jury trials, the judge) accept the hearsay statement as being true. Hearsay exceptions mean only that the trier of fact will be informed of the hearsay statement and will be allowed to consider it when deciding on a verdict in the case. The jury is free to disregard a hearsay statement if the jury does not believe it. The hearsay rule controls only what out-of-court statements a trier of fact gets to consider in deciding a case, not how they consider the out-of-court statements.\n\n"}
{"id": "1602999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1602999", "title": "Heritable jurisdictions", "text": "Heritable jurisdictions\n\nHeritable jurisdictions were, in the law of Scotland, grants of jurisdiction made to a man and his heirs.\nThey were a usual accompaniment to feudal tenures and conferred power on great families. Both before and after the Union frequent attempts were made by statute to restrict them, since they were recognized as a source of danger to the state. All were finally abolished by the Heritable Jurisdictions Act in 1747, following the Jacobite rising of 1745, with compensation available upon formal application by the dispossessed.\n"}
{"id": "367273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=367273", "title": "International Military Tribunal for the Far East", "text": "International Military Tribunal for the Far East\n\nThe International Military Tribunal for the Far East (IMTFE), also known as the Tokyo Trial or the Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal, was a military trial convened on April 29, 1946, to try the leaders of the Empire of Japan for joint conspiracy to start and wage war (categorized as \"Class A\" crimes), conventional war crimes (\"Class B\") and crimes against humanity (\"Class C\").\n\nEleven countries (Australia, Canada, China, France, British India, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Philippines, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United States) provided judges and prosecutors for the court. The defense comprised Japanese and American lawyers.\n\nTwenty-eight Japanese military and political leaders were charged with 55 separate counts encompassing the waging of aggressive war, murder and conventional war crimes committed against prisoners-of-war, civilian internees and the inhabitants of occupied territories. The defendants included former prime ministers, former foreign ministers and former military commanders. In the course of the proceedings, the court ruled that 45 of the counts, including all the murder charges, were either redundant or not authorized under the IMTFE Charter.\n\nTwo defendants died during the proceedings and one was ruled unfit to stand trial. All remaining defendants were found guilty of at least one count. Sentences ranged from seven years' imprisonment to execution.\n\nThe tribunal was adjourned on November 12, 1948.\n\nThe Tribunal was established to implement the Cairo Declaration, the Potsdam Declaration, the Instrument of Surrender, and the Moscow Conference. The Potsdam Declaration (July 1945) had stated, \"stern justice shall be meted out to all war criminals, including those who have visited cruelties upon our prisoners,\" though it did not specifically foreshadow trials. The terms of reference for the Tribunal were set out in the IMTFE Charter, issued on January 19, 1946. There was major disagreement, both among the Allies and within their administrations, about whom to try and how to try them. Despite the lack of consensus, General Douglas MacArthur, the Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers, decided to initiate arrests. On September 11, a week after the surrender, he ordered the arrest of 39 suspects—most of them members of General Hideki Tōjō's war cabinet. Tōjō tried to commit suicide, but was resuscitated with the help of U.S. doctors.\n\nOn January 19, 1946, MacArthur issued a special proclamation ordering the establishment of an International Military Tribunal for the Far East (IMTFE). On the same day, he also approved the Charter of the International Military Tribunal for the Far East (CIMTFE), which prescribed how it was to be formed, the crimes that it was to consider, and how the tribunal was to function. The charter generally followed the model set by the Nuremberg trials. On April 25, in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 of the CIMTFE, the original Rules of Procedure of the International Military Tribunal for the Far East with amendments were promulgated.\n\nFollowing months of preparation, the IMTFE convened on April 29, 1946. The trials were held in the War Ministry office in Tokyo.\n\nOn May 3 the prosecution opened its case, charging the defendants with crimes against peace, conventional war crimes, and crimes against humanity. The trial continued for more than two and a half years, hearing testimony from 419 witnesses and admitting 4,336 exhibits of evidence, including depositions and affidavits from 779 other individuals.\n\nFollowing the model used at the Nuremberg trials in Germany, the Allies established three broad categories. \"Class A\" charges, alleging crimes against peace, were to be brought against Japan's top leaders who had planned and directed the war. Class B and C charges, which could be leveled at Japanese of any rank, covered conventional war crimes and crimes against humanity, respectively. Unlike the Nuremberg trials, the charge of crimes against peace was a prerequisite to prosecution—only those individuals whose crimes included crimes against peace could be prosecuted by the Tribunal. In the event, no Class C charges were heard in Tokyo.\n\nThe indictment accused the defendants of promoting a scheme of conquest that \"contemplated and carried out ... murdering, maiming and ill-treating prisoners of war (and) civilian internees ... forcing them to labor under inhumane conditions ... plundering public and private property, wantonly destroying cities, towns and villages beyond any justification of military necessity; (perpetrating) mass murder, rape, pillage, brigandage, torture and other barbaric cruelties upon the helpless civilian population of the over-run countries.\"\n\nKeenan issued a press statement along with the indictment: \"War and treaty-breakers should be stripped of the glamour of national heroes and exposed as what they really are—plain, ordinary murderers.\"\n\nThe prosecution began opening statements on May 3, 1946, and took 192 days to present its case, finishing on January 24, 1947. It submitted its evidence in fifteen phases.\n\nThe Charter provided that evidence against the accused could include any document \"without proof of its issuance or signature\" as well as diaries, letters, press reports, and sworn or unsworn out-of-court statements relating to the charges. Article 13 of the Charter read, in part: \"The tribunal shall not be bound by technical rules of evidence ... and shall admit any evidence which it deems to have probative value.\"\n\nWartime press releases of the Allies were admitted as evidence by the prosecution, while those sought to be entered by the defense were excluded. The recollection of a conversation with a long-dead man was admitted. Letters allegedly written by Japanese citizens were admitted with no proof of authenticity and no opportunity for cross examination by the defense.\n\nThe Tribunal embraced the best evidence rule once the Prosecution had rested. The best evidence rule dictates that the \"best\" or most authentic evidence must be produced (for example, a map instead of a description of the map; an original instead of a copy; and a witness instead of a description of what the witness may have said). Justice Pal, one of two justices to vote for acquittal on all counts, observed, \"in a proceeding where we had to allow the prosecution to bring in any amount of hearsay evidence, it was somewhat misplaced caution to introduce this best evidence rule particularly when it operated practically against the defense only.\"\n\nTo prove their case, the prosecution team relied on the doctrine of \"command responsibility.\" This doctrine was that it did not require proof of criminal orders. The prosecution had to prove three things: that war crimes were systematic or widespread; the accused knew that troops were committing atrocities; and the accused had power or authority to stop the crimes.\n\nThe prosecution argued that a 1927 document known as the Tanaka Memorial showed that a \"common plan or conspiracy\" to commit \"crimes against peace\" bound the accused together. Thus, the prosecution argued that the conspiracy had begun in 1927 and continued through to the end of the war in 1945. The Tanaka Memorial is now considered by most historians to have been a forgery; however, it was not regarded as such at the time.\n\nThe defendants were represented by over a hundred attorneys, three-quarters of them Japanese and one-quarter American, plus a support staff. The defense opened its case on January 27, 1947, and finished its presentation 225 days later on September 9, 1947.\n\nThe defense argued that the trial could never be free from substantial doubt as to its \"legality, fairness and impartiality.\"\n\nThe defense challenged the indictment, arguing that crimes against peace, and more specifically, the undefined concepts of conspiracy and aggressive war, had yet to be established as crimes in international law; in effect, the IMTFE was contradicting accepted legal procedure by trying the defendants retroactively for violating laws which had not existed when the alleged crimes had been committed. The defense insisted that there was no basis in international law for holding individuals responsible for acts of state, as the Tokyo Trial proposed to do. The defense attacked the notion of negative criminality, by which the defendants were to be tried for failing to prevent breaches of law and war crimes by others, as likewise having no basis in international law.\n\nThe defense argued that Allied Powers' violations of international law should be examined.\n\nFormer Foreign Minister Shigenori Tōgō maintained that Japan had had no choice but to enter the war for self-defense purposes. He asserted that \"[because of the Hull Note] we felt at the time that Japan was being driven either to war or suicide.\"\n\nAfter the defense had finished its presentation on September 9, 1947 the IMT spent fifteen months reaching judgment and drafting its 1,781-page opinion. The reading of the judgment and the sentences lasted from December 4 to 12, 1948. Five of the eleven justices released separate opinions outside the court.\n\nIn his concurring opinion Justice William Webb of Australia took issue with Emperor Hirohito's legal status, writing, \"The suggestion that the Emperor was bound to act on advice is contrary to the evidence.\" While refraining from personal indictment of Hirohito, Webb indicated that Hirohito bore responsibility as a constitutional monarch who accepted \"ministerial and other advice for war\" and that \"no ruler can commit the crime of launching aggressive war and then validly claim to be excused for doing so because his life would otherwise have been in danger ... It will remain that the men who advised the commission of a crime, if it be one, are in no worse position than the man who directs the crime be committed.\"\n\nJustice Delfín Jaranilla of the Philippines disagreed with the penalties imposed by the tribunal as being \"too lenient, not exemplary and deterrent, and not commensurate with the gravity of the offence or offences committed.\"\n\nJustice Henri Bernard of France argued that the tribunal's course of action was flawed due to Hirohito's absence and the lack of sufficient deliberation by the judges. He concluded that Japan's declaration of war \"had a principal author who escaped all prosecution and of whom in any case the present Defendants could only be considered as accomplices\" and that a \"verdict reached by a Tribunal after a defective procedure cannot be a valid one.\"\n\n\"It is well-nigh impossible to define the concept of initiating or waging a war of aggression both accurately and comprehensively,\" wrote Justice Bert Röling of the Netherlands in his dissent. He stated, \"I think that not only should there have been neutrals in the court, but there should have been Japanese also.\" He argued that they would always have been a minority and therefore would not have been able to sway the balance of the trial. However, \"they could have convincingly argued issues of government policy which were unfamiliar to the Allied justices.\" Pointing out the difficulties and limitations in holding individuals responsible for an act of state and making omission of responsibility a crime, Röling called for the acquittal of several defendants, including Hirota.\n\nJustice Radhabinod Pal of the British empire produced a 1,235-page judgment in which he dismissed the legitimacy of the IMTFE as victor's justice: \"I would hold that each and every one of the accused must be found not guilty of each and every one of the charges in the indictment and should be acquitted on all those charges.\" While taking into account the influence of wartime propaganda, exaggerations, and distortions of facts in the evidence, and \"over-zealous\" and \"hostile\" witnesses, Pal concluded, \"The evidence is still overwhelming that atrocities were perpetrated by the members of the Japanese armed forces against the civilian population of some of the territories occupied by them as also against the prisoners of war.\"\n\nOne defendant, Shūmei Ōkawa, was found mentally unfit for trial and the charges were dropped.\n\nTwo defendants, Matsuoka Yosuke and Nagano Osami, died of natural causes during the trial.\n\nSix defendants were sentenced to death by hanging for war crimes, crimes against humanity, and crimes against peace (Class A, Class B and Class C):\nOne defendant was sentenced to death by hanging for war crimes and crimes against humanity (Class B and Class C):\n\nThey were executed at Sugamo Prison in Ikebukuro on December 23, 1948. MacArthur, afraid of embarrassing and antagonizing the Japanese people, defied the wishes of President Truman and barred photography of any kind, instead bringing in four members of the Allied Council to act as official witnesses.\n\nSixteen defendants were sentenced to life imprisonment. Three (Koiso, Shiratori, and Umezu) died in prison, while the other thirteen were paroled between 1954 and 1956:\n\nForeign minister Shigenori Tōgō was sentenced to 20 years' imprisonment and died in prison in 1949. Foreign minister Mamoru Shigemitsu was sentenced to 7 years. He later served as Foreign Minister and as Deputy Prime Minister of post-war Japan.\n\nThe verdict and sentences of the tribunal were confirmed by MacArthur on November 24, 1948, two days after a perfunctory meeting with members of the Allied Control Commission for Japan, who acted as the local representatives of the nations of the Far Eastern Commission. Six of those representatives made no recommendations for clemency. Australia, Canada, India, and the Netherlands were willing to see the general make some reductions in sentences. He chose not to do so. The issue of clemency was thereafter to disturb Japanese relations with the Allied powers until the late 1950s, when a majority of the Allied powers agreed to release the last of the convicted major war criminals from captivity.\n\nMore than 5,700 lower-ranking personnel were charged with conventional war crimes in separate trials convened by Australia, China, France, the Netherlands Indies, the Philippines, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The charges covered a wide range of crimes including prisoner abuse, rape, sexual slavery, torture, ill-treatment of labourers, execution without trial, and inhumane medical experiments. The trials took place in around fifty locations in Asia and the Pacific. Most trials were completed by 1949, but Australia held some trials in 1951. China held 13 tribunals, resulting in 504 convictions and 149 executions.\n\nOf the 5,700 Japanese individuals indicted for Class B war crimes, 984 were sentenced to death; 475 received life sentences; 2,944 were given more limited prison terms; 1,018 were acquitted; and 279 were never brought to trial or not sentenced. The number of death sentences by country is as follows: the Netherlands 236, Great Britain 223, Australia 153, China 149, United States 140, France 26, and Philippines 17. \n\nThe Soviet Union and Chinese Communist forces also held trials of Japanese war criminals. The Khabarovsk War Crime Trials held by the Soviets tried and found guilty some members of Japan's bacteriological and chemical warfare unit, also known as Unit 731. However, those who surrendered to the Americans were never brought to trial. As Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, MacArthur gave immunity to Shiro Ishii and all members of the bacteriological research units in exchange for germ warfare data based on human experimentation. On May 6, 1947, he wrote to Washington that \"additional data, possibly some statements from Ishii probably can be obtained by informing Japanese involved that information will be retained in intelligence channels and will not be employed as 'War Crimes' evidence.\" The deal was concluded in 1948.\n\nThe United States had provided the funds and staff necessary for running the Tribunal and also held the function of Chief Prosecutor. The argument was made that it was difficult, if not impossible, to uphold the requirement of impartiality with which such an organ should be invested. This apparent conflict gave the impression that the tribunal was no more than a means for the dispensation of victor's justice. Solis Horowitz argues that IMTFE had an American bias: unlike the Nuremberg trials, there was only a single prosecution team, led by an American, although the members of the tribunal represented eleven different Allied countries. The IMTFE had less official support than the Nuremberg trials. Keenan, a former U.S. assistant attorney general, had a much lower position than Nuremberg's Robert H. Jackson, a justice of the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nJustice Delfin had been captured by the Japanese and walked the Bataan Death March. The defense sought to remove him from the bench claiming he would be unable to maintain objectivity. The request was rejected but Delfin did excuse himself from presentation of evidence for atrocities in his native country of the Philippines.\n\nJustice Radhabinod Pal argued that the exclusion of Western colonialism and the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki from the list of crimes and the lack of judges from the vanquished nations on the bench signified the \"failure of the Tribunal to provide anything other than the opportunity for the victors to retaliate\". In this he was not alone among Indian jurists, with one prominent Calcutta barrister writing that the Tribunal was little more than \"a sword in a [judge's] wig.\"\n\nJustice Röling stated, \"[o]f course, in Japan we were all aware of the bombings and the burnings of Tokyo and Yokohama and other big cities. It was horrible that we went there for the purpose of vindicating the laws of war, and yet saw every day how the Allies had violated them dreadfully.\"\n\nHowever, in respect to Pal and Röling's statement about the conduct of air attacks, there was no positive or specific customary international humanitarian law with respect to aerial warfare before and during World War II. Ben Bruce Blakeney, an American defense counsel for Japanese defendants, argued that \"[i]f the killing of Admiral Kidd by the bombing of Pearl Harbor is murder, we know the name of the very man who[se] hands loosed the atomic bomb on Hiroshima,\" even though Pearl Harbor was classified as a war crime under the 1907 Hague Convention, as it happened without a declaration of war and without a just cause for self-defense. Similarly, the indiscriminate bombing of Chinese cities by Japanese Imperial Forces was never raised in the Tokyo Trials in fear of America being accused the same thing for its air attacks on Japanese cities. As a result, Japanese pilots and officers escaped prosecution for their aerial raids on Pearl Harbor and cities in China and other Asian countries.\n\nIndian jurist Radhabinod Pal raised substantive objections in a dissenting opinion: he found the entire prosecution case to be weak regarding the conspiracy to commit an act of aggressive war, which would include the brutalization and subjugation of conquered nations. About the Nanking Massacre—while acknowledging the brutality of the incident—he said that there was nothing to show that it was the \"product of government policy\" or that Japanese government officials were directly responsible. There is \"no evidence, testimonial or circumstantial, concomitant, prospectant, restrospectant, that would in any way lead to the inference that the government in any way permitted the commission of such offenses,\" he said. In any case, he added, conspiracy to wage aggressive war was not illegal in 1937, or at any point since. Pal was the only judge to argue for the acquittal of all of the defendants.\n\nThe Japanese Emperor Hirohito and other members of The Imperial Family might have been regarded as potential suspects. They included career officer Prince Yasuhiko Asaka, Prince Fushimi Hiroyasu, Prince Higashikuni, and Prince Takeda. Herbert Bix explained, \"The Truman Administration and General MacArthur both believed the occupation reforms would be implemented smoothly if they used Hirohito to legitimise their changes.\" \n\nAs early as November 26, 1945, MacArthur confirmed to Admiral Mitsumasa Yonai that the emperor's abdication would not be necessary. Before the war crimes trials actually convened, SCAP, the IPS, and court officials worked behind the scenes not only to prevent the imperial family from being indicted, but also to slant the testimony of the defendants to ensure that no one implicated the emperor. High officials in court circles and the Japanese government collaborated with Allied GHQ in compiling lists of prospective war criminals. People arrested as Class A suspects and incarcerated in the Sugamo Prison solemnly vowed to protect their sovereign against any possible taint of war responsibility.\n\nAccording to historian Herbert Bix, Brigadier General Bonner Fellers \"immediately on landing in Japan went to work to protect Hirohito from the role he had played during and at the end of the war\" and \"allowed the major criminal suspects to coordinate their stories so that the emperor would be spared from indictment.\"\n\nBix also argues that \"MacArthur's truly extraordinary measures to save Hirohito from trial as a war criminal had a lasting and profoundly distorting impact on Japanese understanding of the lost war\" and \"months before the Tokyo tribunal commenced, MacArthur's highest subordinates were working to attribute ultimate responsibility for Pearl Harbor to Hideki Tōjō.\" According to a written report by Shūichi Mizota, Admiral Mitsumasa Yonai's interpreter, Fellers met the two men at his office on March 6, 1946, and told Yonai, \"It would be most convenient if the Japanese side could prove to us that the emperor is completely blameless. I think the forthcoming trials offer the best opportunity to do that. Tōjō, in particular, should be made to bear all responsibility at this trial.\"\n\nHistorian John W. Dower wrote that the campaign to absolve Emperor Hirohito of responsibility \"knew no bounds.\" He argued that with MacArthur's full approval, the prosecution effectively acted as \"a defense team for the emperor,\" who was presented as \"an almost saintly figure\" let alone someone culpable of war crimes. He stated, \"Even Japanese activists who endorse the ideals of the Nuremberg and Tokyo charters and who have labored to document and publicize the atrocities of the Shōwa regime cannot defend the American decision to exonerate the emperor of war responsibility and then, in the chill of the Cold War, release and soon afterwards openly embrace accused right-winged war criminals like the later prime minister Nobusuke Kishi.\"\n\nThree justices wrote an \"obiter dictum\" about the criminal responsibility of Hirohito. Judge-in-Chief Webb declared, \"No ruler can commit the crime of launching aggressive war and then validly claim to be excused for doing so because his life would otherwise have been in danger ... It will remain that the men who advised the commission of a crime, if it be one, are in no worse position than the man who directs the crime be committed.\"\n\nJustice Henri Bernard of France concluded that Japan's declaration of war \"had a principal author who escaped all prosecution and of whom in any case the present Defendants could only be considered as accomplices.\"\n\nJustice Röling did not find the emperor's immunity objectionable and further argued that five defendants (Kido, Hata, Hirota, Shigemitsu, and Tōgō) should have been acquitted.\n\nShirō Ishii, commander of Unit 731 received immunity in exchange for data gathered from his experiments on live prisoners. In 1981 John W. Powell published an article in the \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\" detailing the experiments of Unit 731 and its open-air tests of germ warfare on civilians. It was printed with a statement by Judge Röling, the last surviving member of the Tokyo Tribunal, who wrote, \"As one of the judges in the International Military Tribunal, it is a bitter experience for me to be informed now that centrally ordered Japanese war criminality of the most disgusting kind was kept secret from the Court by the U.S. government\".\n\nForty-two suspects, such as Nobusuke Kishi, who later became Prime Minister, and Yoshisuke Aikawa, head of Nissan, were imprisoned in the expectation that they would be prosecuted at a second Tokyo Tribunal but they were never charged. They were released in 1947 and 1948.\n\nThe International Prosecution Section of the SCAP decided to try the seventy Japanese apprehended for \"Class A\" war crimes in three groups. The first group of 28 were major leaders in the military, political, and diplomatic sphere. The second group (23 people) and the third group (nineteen people) were industrial and financial magnates who had been engaged in weapons manufacturing industries or were accused of trafficking in narcotics, as well as a number of lesser known leaders in military, political, and diplomatic spheres. The most notable among these were:\n\n\nAll remaining people apprehended and accused of Class A war crimes who had not yet come to trial were set free by MacArthur in 1947 and 1948.\n\nUnder Article 11 of the San Francisco Peace Treaty, signed on September 8, 1951, Japan accepted the jurisdiction of the International Military Tribunal for the Far East. Article 11 of the treaty reads:\n\nIn 1950, after most Allied war crimes trials had ended, thousands of convicted war criminals sat in prisons across Asia and Europe, detained in the countries where they had been convicted. Some executions had not yet been carried out, as Allied courts agreed to reexamine their verdicts. Sentences were reduced in some cases, and a system of parole was instituted, but without relinquishing control over the fate of the imprisoned (even after Japan and Germany had regained their sovereignty).\n\nThe focus changed from the top wartime leaders to \"ordinary\" war criminals (Class B and C in Japan), and an intense and broadly-supported campaign for amnesty for all imprisoned war criminals ensued. The issue of criminal responsibility was reframed as a humanitarian problem.\n\nOn March 7, 1950, MacArthur issued a directive that reduced the sentences by one-third for good behavior and authorized the parole after fifteen years of those who had received life sentences. Several of those who were imprisoned were released earlier on parole due to ill health.\n\nMany Japanese reacted to the Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal by demanding parole for the detainees or mitigation of their sentences. Shortly after the San Francisco Peace Treaty came into effect, a movement demanding the release of B- and C-class war criminals began, emphasizing the \"unfairness of the war crimes tribunals\" and the \"misery and hardship of the families of war criminals.\" The movement quickly garnered the support of more than ten million Japanese. The government commented that \"public sentiment in our country is that the war criminals are not criminals. Rather, they gather great sympathy as victims of the war, and the number of people concerned about the war crimes tribunal system itself is steadily increasing.\"\n\nThe parole for war criminals movement was driven by two groups: people who had \"a sense of pity\" for the prisoners demanded, \"Just set them free\" (\"tonikaku shakuho o\") regardless of how it is done. The war criminals themselves called for their own release as part of an anti-war peace movement.\n\nOn September 4, 1952, President Truman issued Executive Order 10393, establishing a Clemency and Parole Board for War Criminals. Its purpose was to advise the President regarding recommendations by the Government of Japan for clemency, reduction of sentence, or parole of Japanese war criminals sentenced by military tribunals.\n\nOn May 26, 1954, Secretary of State John Foster Dulles rejected a proposed amnesty for the imprisoned war criminals but instead agreed to \"change the ground rules\" by reducing the period required for eligibility for parole from 15 years to 10 years.\n\nBy the end of 1958, all Japanese war criminals were released from prison and politically rehabilitated. Hashimoto Kingorô, Hata Shunroku, Minami Jirô, and Oka Takazumi were all released on parole in 1954. Araki Sadao, Hiranuma Kiichirô, Hoshino Naoki, Kaya Okinori, Kido Kôichi, Ôshima Hiroshi, Shimada Shigetarô, and Suzuki Teiichi were released on parole in 1955. Satô Kenryô, whom many—including Judge Röling—regarded as the one least deserving of imprisonment, was not granted parole until March 1956, the last of the Class A Japanese war criminals to be released. With the concurrence of a majority of the powers represented on the tribunal, the Japanese government announced on April 7, 1957, that the last ten major Japanese war criminals who had previously been paroled were granted clemency and were to be regarded henceforth as unconditionally free.\n\nIn 1978 the \"kami\" of 1,068 convicted war criminals, including 14 convicted Class-A war criminals, were secretly enshrined at Yasukuni Shrine. Those enshrined include Hideki Tōjō, Kenji Doihara, Iwane Matsui, Heitarō Kimura, Kōki Hirota, Seishirō Itagaki, Akira Mutō, Yosuke Matsuoka, Osami Nagano, Toshio Shiratori, Kiichirō Hiranuma, Kuniaki Koiso and Yoshijirō Umezu. Since 1985, visits made by Japanese government officials to the Shrine have aroused protests in China and South Korea.\n\nArnold Brackman, who had covered the trials for United Press International, wrote \"The Other Nuremberg: The Untold Story of the Tokyo War Crimes Trial,\" a rebuttal to charges that the trial had been \"victors' justice\"; this rebuttal was published posthumously in 1987.\n\nIn a survey of 3,000 Japanese people conducted by \"Asahi News\" as the 60th anniversary approached in 2006, 70% of those questioned were unaware of the details of the trials, a figure that rose to 90% for those in the 20–29 age group. Some 76% of the people polled recognized a degree of aggression on Japan's part during the war, while only 7% believed it was a war strictly for self-defense.\n\nA South Korean government commission cleared 83 of the 148 Koreans convicted by the Allies of war crimes during World War II. The commission ruled that the Koreans, who were categorized as Class B and Class C war criminals, were in fact victims of Japanese imperialism.\n\nSome time before the situation emerged about his expected accession to the Chrysanthemum Throne at the end of April 2019, some degree of concern was voiced by current Crown Prince Naruhito on the occasion of his 55th birthday in February 2015 about how Japanese history in regards to its World War II involvement would be remembered by his future subjects; as Naruhito put it at that time: that it was \"important to look back on the past humbly and correctly,\" in reference to Japan's role in World War II-era war crimes and that he was concerned about the ongoing need to, in his own words: \"correctly pass down tragic experiences and the history behind Japan to the generations who have no direct knowledge of the war, at the time memories of the war are about to fade.\"\n\nMacArthur appointed a panel of 11 judges, nine from the nations that signed the Instrument of Surrender.\n\nThe famous legal scholar Roscoe Pound was also apparently favourably disposed to replacing John P. Higgins as a judge but an appointment did not eventuate.\n\nThe chief prosecutor, Joseph B. Keenan of the United States, was appointed by President Harry S. Truman.\n\nTwenty-eight defendants were charged, mostly military officers and government officials.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3510770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3510770", "title": "LGBT rights in the United States", "text": "LGBT rights in the United States\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) rights in the United States of America vary by . Since June 26, 2003, sexual activity between consenting adults of the same sex as well as same-sex adolescents of a close age has been legal nationwide, pursuant to the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in \"Lawrence v. Texas\". , all states license and recognize marriage between same-sex couples as a result of the Supreme Court decision in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\".\n\nHowever, the United States has no federal law outlawing discrimination nationwide other than from federal executive orders which have a more limited scope than from protections through federal legislation. This leaves residents of some states unprotected against discrimination in employment, housing, and private or public services. Thus, LGBT persons in the United States may face challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents.\n\nThe strongest expansions in LGBT rights in the United States have come from the United States Supreme Court. In four landmark rulings between the years 1996 and 2015, the Supreme Court invalidated a state law banning protected class recognition based upon homosexuality, struck down sodomy laws nationwide, struck down Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act, and made same-sex marriage legal nationwide.\n\nLGBT rights-related laws regarding family and anti-discrimination still vary by state. The age of consent in each jurisdiction varies from age 16 to 18, with some jurisdictions maintaining different ages of consent for males/females or for same-sex/opposite-sex relations.\n\nTwenty-two states plus Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico outlaw discrimination based on sexual orientation, and twenty states plus Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico outlaw discrimination based on gender identity or expression. Hate crimes based on sexual orientation or gender identity are also punishable by federal law under the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009. In 2012 the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ruled that Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 does not allow gender identity-based employment discrimination because it is considered sexual discrimination. In 2015, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission concluded that Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 does not allow sexual orientation discrimination in employment because it is a form of sex discrimination.\n\nAdoption of children by same-sex married couples is legal nationwide since June 2015 following the Supreme Court's decision in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\", though Mississippi did not have its same-sex adoption ban struck down by a federal court until March 2016. Policies regarding adoption vary greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Some states allow adoption by all couples, while others ban all unmarried couples from adoption.\n\nCivil rights for LGBT people in the United States are advocated by a variety of organizations at all levels and concentrations of political and legal life, including the Human Rights Campaign, Lambda Legal, Gay & Lesbian Advocates & Defenders (GLAD), American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), the National Center for Transgender Equality and the National Center for Lesbian Rights.\n\nOn April 14, 2010, President Barack Obama issued an Executive Order to the Department of Health and Human Services to draft new rules for all hospitals accepting Medicare or Medicaid funds. They would require facilities to grant visitation and medical decision-making rights to gay and lesbian partners, as well as designees of others such as widows and widowers. Such rights are not protected by law in many states. Obama said he was inspired by the case of a Florida family, where one of the mothers died while her partner and four children were denied visitation by the hospital.\n\nThe Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO) is an agency within the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. FHEO is responsible for administering and enforcing federal fair housing laws and establishing policies that make sure all Americans have equal access to the housing of their choice. Housing discrimination refers to discrimination against potential or current tenants by landlords. In the United States, there is no federal law against such discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, but at least twenty-two states and many major cities have enacted laws prohibiting it. See, for example, Washington House Bill 2661.\n\nIn 2012, The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development's Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity issued a regulation to prohibit LGBT discrimination in federally-assisted housing programs. The new regulations ensure that the Department's core housing programs are open to all eligible persons, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity. The Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity is responsible for enforcing a variety of fair housing laws, which prohibit discrimination in both privately owned and publicly assisted housing including:\n\nThere is no federal statute addressing employment discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. Protections at the national level are limited. Some regulations protect government employees but do not extend their protections to the private sector. Twenty-two states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and over 140 cities and counties have enacted bans on discrimination based on sexual orientation and/or sexual identity. Employment discrimination refers to discriminatory employment practices such as bias in hiring, promotion, job assignment, termination, and compensation, and various types of harassment. In the United States there is \"very little statutory, common law, and case law establishing employment discrimination based upon sexual orientation as a legal wrong.\"\n\nPresidents have established certain protections for some employees of the federal government by executive order. In 1995, President Bill Clinton's Executive Order 12968 establishing criteria for the issuance of security clearances included sexual orientation for the first time in its non-discrimination language: \"The United States Government does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, or sexual orientation in granting access to classified information.\" It also said that \"no inference\" about suitability for access to classified information \"may be raised solely on the basis of the sexual orientation of the employee.\" Clinton's Executive Order 13087 in 1998 prohibited discrimination based on sexual orientation in the competitive service of the federal civilian workforce. It applied to the large majority of federal employees, but not to the excepted services such as the military.\n\nAt the start of 2010, the Obama administration included gender identity among the classes protected against discrimination under the authority of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). In 2012 the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ruled that Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 does not allow gender identity-based employment discrimination because it is a form of sex discrimination. In 2015, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission concluded that Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 does not allow sexual orientation discrimination in employment because it is a form of sex discrimination.\n\nOn July 21, 2014, President Obama signed Executive Order 13672, adding \"gender identity\" to the categories protected against discrimination in hiring in the federal civilian workforce and both \"sexual orientation\" and gender identity\" to the categories protected against discrimination in hiring and employment on the part of federal government contractors and sub-contractors.\n\nHate crime laws (also known as \"bias crimes laws\") protect against crimes motivated by feelings of enmity against a protected class. Until 2009, a 1969 federal law defined hate crimes committed on the basis of a person's race, color, religion, or nation origin when engaging in a federally protected activity. In October 2009, Congress passed the Matthew Shepard Act, which expanded the definition of hate crimes to include gender, sexual orientation, gender-identity, and disability. It removed the requirement that the victim of a hate crime be engaged in a federally protected activity. President Obama signed the legislation on October 28, 2009.\n\nTwo statutes, the Hate Crime Statistics Act (1990) and the Campus Hate Crimes Right to Know Act (1997), require the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as well as college/university campus security authorities, to collect and publish hate crime statistics.\n\nForty-five states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico have statutes criminalizing various types of bias-motivated violence or intimidation (the exceptions are AR, GA, IN, SC, and WY). Each of these statutes covers bias on the basis of race, religion, and ethnicity; 32 cover disability; 32 of them cover sexual orientation; 28 cover gender; 13 cover age; 18 cover gender identity; 5 cover political affiliation. 31 states and the District of Columbia have statutes creating a civil cause of action, in addition to the criminal penalty, for similar acts. 27 states and the District of Columbia have statutes requiring the state to collect hate crime statistics; 16 of these cover sexual orientation.\n\nIn \"Wisconsin v. Mitchell\" (1993) the Supreme Court unanimously held that state penalty-enhancement laws for hate crimes were constitutional and did not violate First Amendment rights to freedom of thought and expression.\n\nIn the United States, four states permit conjugal visits to prisoners: California, Connecticut, New York and Washington, all of these US states have legalized same-sex marriage in June 2015. In June 2007, California, following the enactment in 2005 of a state law requiring state agencies to provide the same rights to domestic partners as to married couples, became the first US state to allow same-sex conjugal visits. The new rules allowed for visits only by registered same-sex married couples or domestic partners, provided that the same-sex marriage or domestic partnership was established before the prisoner was incarcerated. In New York prior to the vote on same-sex visits, this state allowed 27 out of its 60 facilities to allow same-sex conjugal visits, but this law was not enforced state wide until April 2011. In 2014, both New Mexico and Mississippi banned conjugal visits.\n\nPrior to 1993, lesbian and gay people were not permitted to serve in the US military. Under the \"Don't ask, don't tell\" (DADT) policy enacted that year, they were permitted to do so only if they did not disclose their sexual orientation. The Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 permitted homosexual men and women to serve openly in the armed forces following once designated government officials certified that the military was prepared for the repeal. Since September 20, 2011, gays, lesbians, and bisexuals have been able to serve openly. Transgender women and other individuals that are assigned male at birth are still required to sign-up for the Selective Service. On July 13, 2015, Defense Secretary Ashton Carter said that the current regulations banning transgender individuals from serving were outdated, and announced a six-month study to determine if lifting the ban would have any impact on the military's effectiveness. On June 30, 2016, Carter announced that the ban on transgender troops from openly serving had been lifted. The policy went into effect on October 1, 2016 and on October 24, 10 soldiers in the United States Army became the first to openly petition for a sex change since the ban on service by transgender individuals was lifted. Training on transgender issues will go into effect on November 1 and the transition is proposed to be complete by July 2017.\n\nIn July 2017, President Trump announced that transgender people are prohibited from serving in the military. The day after President Trump's announcement, however, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Joseph Dunford said \"There will be no modifications to the current policy until the President's direction has been received by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary has issued implementation guidance. In the meantime, we will continue to treat all of our personnel with respect.\" Trump later published a memo on August 25, 2017 directing that an implementation plan be submitted to him by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security by February 2018.\n\nIn the US, the current guidance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is to defer from donating blood for 12 months from the most recent contact a man who has had sex with another man during the past 12 months. Furthermore, the FDA recommends to blood establishments that in the context of the donor history questionnaire, male or female gender should be self-identified and self-reported for the purpose of blood donation.\n\nIf a person identifies as transgender, this typically means their gender differs from their sex assigned at birth. Some transgender people have binary gender identities (male or female) and some transgender people have nonbinary gender identities, (genderqueer, agender, pangender, culturally-specific third gender identities, and more).\n\nDiscrimination rates are very high for the transgender community and especially for transgender people of color. Some frequent examples of discrimination and other forms of oppression faced by the transgender community are violence and hate crimes, homelessness, poverty, sexual assault, housing discrimination, employment discrimination, harassment, bullying, disproportionate rates of arrest and incarceration,\nprison and immigration violence and mistreatment, airport security humiliation, HIV+/AIDS and health disparities, governmental/bureaucratic barriers to transitioning (documents and surgery requirements), economic and societal barriers to transitioning (the high costs of medical care and the frequent denial of care,) to name only a few. Some (but not all), who experience exclusion from the workforce, turn to survival crimes, such as sex work, in order to have an income as a direct result of economic oppression and discrimination.\n\nFrequently, the media, and politicians (and as a result, society) sensationalize transgender identities and oppression is reinforced. Aware of this trend, in 2016, a coalition of over 250 anti-sexual assault and domestic violence organizations have released a joint letter decrying the trend of portraying transgender people in restrooms as sexual predators as untrue and harmful. Likewise, GLAAD has released a media guide for reporters covering restroom usage in relation to the transgender community.\n\nMany transgender advocates also advocate for converting single-occupant, gender-segregated restrooms into single-occupant, all-gender restrooms by simply changing the signs due to the high rates of harassment and even violence faced by the transgender community when accessing gender-segregated restrooms according to their gender expression. All-Gender/Gender-Neutral restrooms are also beneficial to nursing mothers, parents with different-sex children, and people with disabilities. Transgender advocates affirm all-gender restrooms as well as access to gendered restrooms as a matter of choice, safety, privacy, and dignity.\n\nIntersex people in the United States have some of the same rights as other people, but with significant gaps, particularly in protection from non-consensual cosmetic medical interventions and violence, and protection from discrimination. Actions by intersex civil society organizations aim to eliminate harmful practices, promote social acceptance, and equality. In recent years, intersex activists have also secured some forms of legal recognition.\n\nThe movement to obtain civil marriage rights and benefits for same-sex couples in the United States began in the 1970s but remained unsuccessful for over forty years. On May 17, 2004, Massachusetts became the first U.S. state and the sixth jurisdiction in the world to legalize same-sex marriage following the Supreme Judicial Court's decision six months earlier. Before nationwide legalization, same-sex marriage became legal in 36 states; 24 states by court order, 9 by legislative action, and 3 by referendum. Some states had legalized same-sex marriage by more than one of the three actions.\n\nOn June 26, 2015 the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" that states must license and recognize same-sex marriages. Consequently, same-sex marriage is legal in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, U.S. Virgin Islands and Northern Mariana Islands. Officials in American Samoa are discussing whether the ruling applies to the territory; currently same-sex marriages are neither licensed nor recognized there.\n\n\nFourteen state and the District of Columbia legislators have passed same-sex marriage bills in their states, of which four were vetoed by the governors with Vermont overriding its governor's veto. In total ten states legalized same-sex marriage through legislation without judicial order.\n\n\nPrior to nationwide same-sex marriage, fifteen U.S. states had civil unions or domestic partnerships. Many of those state retain those laws as a continued choice for same-sex couples, and opposite couples in certain states.\n\nThirty-three states had initiatives to vote on same sex marriage and all but one passed a ban on same-sex marriage and/or civil union laws. In the 2012 November elections, Washington, Maryland, and Maine all had referendums to vote on same sex marriage. In this same election, Minnesota had an initiative to add a constitutional ban on same sex marriage. Following the results of this election, Maryland, Maine, and Washington became the first states to allow same-sex marriage through popular vote. while in turn Minnesota voters rejected the proposed ban.\nVarious other states had initiatives on banning LGBT individuals from certain positions or allowing certain anti-discrimination laws.\n\nThe events of the Hawaii Supreme Court prompted the United States Congress to enact the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) in 1996, which forbade the federal government from recognizing same-sex marriages and relieved states of the requirement that they recognize same-sex unions performed in other jurisdictions.\n\nOn June 26, 2013, Section 3 of DOMA was ruled unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court in \"United States v. Windsor\".\n\n\nThere was a backlash after Massachusetts legalized same sex marriage during the 2004 election cycle where fourteen states amended their constitution to ban recognition of same-sex marriages and many banning civil unions as well.\n\nIn all twenty-eight states passed state constitutional amendments that banned same-sex marriage to be legalized by judicial or legislative action:\nAlabama, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia and Wisconsin.\n\nHawaii voters approved a narrower constitutional amendment empowering the legislature to outlaw same-sex marriage, which they had already done in 1993.\n\nOn November 6, 2012, Minnesota became the first state to vote down a proposed constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage. The amendment failed with a 53% to 47% vote.\n\nAll state constitutional bans have been declared unconstitutional in June 2015 in \"Obergefell\".\n\n\nAfter the passage of the Defense of Marriage Act in 1996 many state legislators enacted state statutes, nicknamed mini-DOMA's, that ban same sex marriage. Beginning in 1972 with Maryland, all states but New Mexico passed a statute banning same-sex marriage prior to nationwide legalization in \"Obergefell\" in June 2015.\n\nSame-sex couples are allowed to adopt in states and territories following the ruling in \"Obergefell\" legalizing same-sex marriage. Prior to \"Obergefell\", various states by legislative and judicial action had allowed joint adoption by same-sex couples.\n\nA March 2014 public opinion poll by \"Washington Post\"/ABC News showed support for same-sex marriage at 59% among Americans, and a February 2014 \"New York Times\"/CBS News opinion poll showed 56% support for same-sex marriage. A November 2012 Gallup poll indicated 61% support for gays and lesbians being allowed to adopt children.\n\nThe main supporters of LGBT rights in the U.S. have generally been political liberals and libertarians. Regionally, support for the LGBT rights movement has been strongest in the areas of the North and the West coast, and in other states with large urban populations. The national Democratic Party has held the official platform support most initiatives since 2012 for LGBT rights. However, there are some Republican groups advocating for LGBT issues inside the party include the Log Cabin Republicans, GOProud, Young Conservatives for the Freedom To Marry, and College Republicans of the University of Pennsylvania and Columbia University. A poll in March 2014 found that 40% of Republicans support same-sex marriage. In 2013, 52% of Republicans and GOP-leaning independents between the age of 18–49 years old supported same-sex marriage in a joint \"Washington Post\"-ABC News poll. A 2014 Pew Forum Poll showed that American Muslims are more likely than Evangelicals to support same-sex marriage 42% to 28%.\n\nThe main opponents of LGBT rights in the U.S. have generally been political and religious conservatives. Conservatives cite various Bible passages from the Old and New Testaments as their justification for opposing LGBT rights. Regionally, LGBT rights opposition has been strongest in the South and in other states with a large rural and conservative population.\n\nAs the movement for same-sex marriage has developed, many national and/or international organizations have opposed that movement. Those organizations include the American Family Association, the Christian Coalition, Family Research Council, Focus on the Family, Save Our Children, NARTH, the national Republican Party, the Roman Catholic Church, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), the Southern Baptist Convention, Alliance for Marriage, Alliance Defense Fund, Liberty Counsel, and the National Organization for Marriage. A number of these groups have been named as anti-gay hate groups by the Southern Poverty Law Center.\n\nIn March 1956, a Federal District Court ruled that \"ONE: The Homosexual Magazine\", was obscene under the Federal Comstock laws and thus could not be sent through the United States Postal Service. This ruling was upheld by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, but in 1958, the Supreme Court of the United States issued a landmark ruling in \"One, Inc. v. Olesen\", 355 U.S. 371, which overturned the previous rulings under a new legal precedent that had been established by the landmark case, \"Roth v. United States\", 354 U.S. 476 (1957). As a result, gay newspapers, magazines and other publications could be lawfully distributed through the public mail service.\nOn May 22, 1967, the Supreme Court of the United States upheld the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, which among other things banned homosexuals, as constitutional. This ban remained in effect until 1991.\n\nIn 1972, a Tacoma, Washington teacher of twelve years with a perfect record was terminated after a former student outed him to the vice-principal. The Washington Supreme Court found that homosexuality was immoral and impaired his efficiency as a teacher. The court supported its conclusion in various ways, including the definition of homosexuality in the New Catholic Encyclopedia, the criminal nature of homosexual conduct, and finding that an \"immoral\" person could not be trusted to instruct students as his presence would be inherently disruptive. On October 3, 1977, the United States Supreme Court denied certiorari, although Justices Brennan and Marshall would have granted cert. This was the first homosexual discrimination decision to be aired on national network news. In fact, it was simultaneously aired on all three national network evening news shows, reaching approximately 60 million viewers.\n\nIn 1985, the Supreme Court heard \"Board of Education v. National Gay Task Force\", which concerned First and Fourteenth Amendment challenges against a law that allowed schools to fire teachers for public homosexual conduct. The Court affirmed the lower court by an equally divided vote 4–4 allowing the Tenth Circuit's ruling that partially struck down the law to stand without setting precedent.\n\nAlso in 1985, the Supreme Court refused to hear an appeal of \"Gay Student Services v. Texas A&M University\", letting stand an appellate ruling ordering the university to provide official recognition of a student organization for homosexual students.\n\nOn June 30, 1986, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in \"Bowers v. Hardwick\", that same-sex intimate conduct was not protected under the right to privacy established under the Fourteenth Amendment.\n\nOn May 20, 1996, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in \"Romer v. Evans\" against an amendment to the Colorado state constitution that would have prevented any city, town or county in the state from taking any legislative, executive, or judicial action to protect homosexual or bisexual citizens from discrimination on the basis of their sexual orientation.\n\nOn March 4, 1998, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in \"Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Services\" that federal laws banning on-the-job sexual harassment also applied when both parties are the same sex. The lower courts, however, have reached differing conclusions about whether this ruling applies to harassment motivated by anti-gay animus.\n\nOn June 28, 2000, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in \"Boy Scouts of America v. Dale\" that the Boy Scouts of America had a First Amendment right to exclude people from its organization on the basis of sexual orientation, irrespective of any applicable civil rights laws.\n\nOn June 26, 2003, the United States Supreme Court ruled in \"Lawrence v. Texas\" that intimate consensual sexual conduct is part of the liberty protected by substantive due process under the Fourteenth Amendment. The majority opinion, written by Justice Anthony Kennedy, explicitly overruled \"Bowers v. Hardwick\". Despite this ruling, some states have not repealed their sodomy laws and local law enforcement officers have used these statutes to harass or arrest gay people.\n\nPrior to the 2003 Supreme Court ruling in \"Lawrence v. Texas,\" same-sex sexual activity was illegal in fourteen US states, Puerto Rico, and the US military.\n\nBy that time, twenty-nine states, the District of Columbia, and five territories had repealed their state's sodomy laws by legislative action. After the repeal of \"Don't Ask Don't Tell,\" the US Congress repealed sodomy laws in the US military. Twelve states have had state Supreme Court or state Appeals courts rule that their state's sodomy laws were unconstitutional. Georgia, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, and Virginia have all had their state sodomy laws struck down by the courts, but the legislatures have not repealed those laws. On April 18, 2013, the governor of Montana signed a bill repealing that state's sodomy law; it had previously been nullified by the Montana Supreme Court.\n\nTen years after the \"Lawrence\" decision, the Supreme Court ruled on June 26, 2013 by a 5–4 vote in \"United States v. Windsor\" that section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act, that forbade the federal government from recognizing lawfully performed same-sex marriages, was found to violate the Fifth Amendment. The federal government then began to recognize lawfully performed same-sex marriages, and provide federal rights, privileges and benefits.\n\nOn June 26, 2015, the United States Supreme Court ruled in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" that same-sex marriage cannot be prohibited by a state. Consequently, same-sex marriages are licensed and recognized as valid and enforced in all states and areas subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Constitution.\n\nTo train the new American Army in the latest military drills and tactics, General George Washington brought in Friedrich Wilhelm von Steuben (1730–94), who had been an officer on the German General staff. Von Steuben escaped Germany where he was threatened with prosecution for homosexuality. He joined Washington's army at Valley Forge in February 1778 accompanied by two young aides. Steuben became an American general, and a senior advisor to Washington. Despite rumors about sexual behavior at his parties, there never was an investigation of Steuben, and he received a Congressional pension after the war.\n\nThe first evidence of antipathy to homosexuals serving in the United States military dates from March 11, 1778, when Lieutenant Frederick Gotthold Enslin was brought to trial before a court-martial. According to General Washington's report: \"...Lieutt. Enslin of Colo. Malcolm's Regiment tried for attempting to commit \"sodomy\" ...\" Washington's secretary described the results of the trial: \"His Excellency the Commander in Chief approves the sentence and with Abhorrence & Detestation of such Infamous Crimes orders Lieut. Enslin to be drummed out of Camp tomorrow morning...\"\n\nIn 1801, Congress enacted the District of Columbia Organic Act of 1801 that continued all criminal laws of Maryland and Virginia in the now formally structured District, with those of Maryland applying to that portion of the District ceded from Maryland, and those of Virginia applying to that portion ceded from Virginia. At the time, Maryland had a sodomy law applicable only to free males with a punishment of \"labour for any time, in their discretion, not exceeding seven years for the same crime, on the public roads of the said county, or in making, repairing or cleaning the streets or bason [sic] of Baltimore-town;\" it imposed the death penalty for slaves committing sodomy. Similarly, Virginia had a penalty of 1–10 years for free persons committing sodomy, but imposed the death penalty for slaves committing sodomy. The law went into effect on February 27, 1801.\n\nIn 1779, Thomas Jefferson wrote a law in Virginia which contained a maximum punishment of castration for men who engaged in sodomy. However, what was intended by Jefferson as a liberalization of the sodomy laws in Virginia at that time was rejected by the Virginia Legislature, which continued to prescribe death as the maximum penalty for the crime of sodomy in that state.\n\nIn 1831, Congress established penalties in the District of Columbia for a number of crimes, but not for sodomy. It specified that \"every other felony, misdemeanor, or offence not provided for by this act, may and shall be punished as heretofore[.]\" At the time, Maryland and Virginia had a penalty of 1–10 years for committing sodomy. It went into effect in March 2, 1831.\n\nIn 1807, William Henry Harrison signed into law a comprehensive criminal code that included the first sodomy law for the Indiana Territory that eliminated the gender-specifics, reduced the penalty for a maximum of 1 to 5 years in prison, a fine of $100 to $500, up to 500 lashes on the back, and a permanent loss of civil rights.\n\nIn 1892, Congress passed a law for the District of Columbia that states that \"for the preservation of the public peace and the protection of property within the District of Columbia.\" Labeled in the law as vagrants were \"all public prostitutes, and all such persons who lead a notoriously lewd or lascivious course of life[.]\" All offenders had to post bond of up to $200 for good behavior for a period of six months. The law went into effect on July 29, 1892.\n\nIn 1898, Congress deleted the word \"notoriously\" from the provision concerning a lewd or lascivious course of life, thereby allowing prosecution of persons without the condition of notoriety. The bond for good behavior was raised to $500, and the law was made gender-neutral. The law went into effect on July 8, 1898.\n\nIn 1901, Congress adopted a new code for the District of Columbia that expressly recognized common-law crimes, with a penalty for them of up to five years and/or a $1,000 fine. The law went into effect on March 3, 1901.\n\nOn December 14, 1916, President Woodrow Wilson vetoed the Immigration Act of 1917, which would have excluded individuals from entering the United States who were found \"mentally defective\" or who had a \"constitutional psychopathic inferiority.\" A similar Public Health Service definition of homosexuals was used simultaneously by the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) to reinforce the language of the Immigration Act of 1917 and effectively ban all homosexual immigrants who disclosed their sexual minority status. On February 5, 1917, the Congress overrode Wilson's veto, implementing the Immigration Act of 1917 into law.\n\nOn March 1, 1917, the Articles of War of 1916 are implemented. This included a revision of the Articles of War of 1806, the new regulations detail statutes governing U.S. military discipline and justice. Under the category Miscellaneous Crimes and Offences, Article 93 states that any person subject to military law who commits \"assault with intent to commit sodomy\" shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.\n\nOn June 4, 1920, Congress modified Article 93 of the Articles of War of 1916. It was changed to make the act of sodomy itself a crime, separate from the offense of assault with intent to commit sodomy. It went into effect on February 4, 1921.\n\nIn 1919, Democratic Assistant Secretary of the Navy Franklin D. Roosevelt requests an investigation into \"vice and depravity\" in the sea services after a sting operation in which undercover operatives attempt to seduce sailors suspected of being homosexual had already begun at the Naval base in Newport, Rhode Island. At least 17 sailors are jailed and court-martialed before public outcry prompts a Republican-led Senate committee to condemn the methods of the operation. Roosevelt denied he had any knowledge that entrapment had been used or that he would have approved of it.\n\nIn 1935, Congress passed a law for the District of Columbia that made it a crime for \"any person to invite, entice, persuade, or to address for the purpose of inviting, enticing, or persuading any person or persons...to accompany, to go with, to follow him or her to his or her residence, or to any other house or building, inclosure, or other place, for the purpose of prostitution, or any other immoral or lewd purpose.\" It imposed a fine of up to $100, up to 90 days in jail, and courts were permitted to \"impose conditions\" on anyone convicted under this law, including \"medical and mental examination, diagnosis and treatment by proper public health and welfare authorities, and such other terms and conditions as the court may deem best for the protection of the community and the punishment, control, and rehabilitation of the defendant.\" The law went into effect on August 14, 1935.\n\nIn 1941, Congress enacted a new solicitation law for the District of Columbia that labeled a \"vagrant\" any person who \"engages in or commits acts of fornication or perversion for hire.\" The law went into effect on December 17, 1941.\n\nIn 1948, Congress enacted the first sodomy law in the District of Columbia, which established a penalty of up to 10 years in prison or a fine of up to $1,000 for sodomy. Also included with this sodomy law was a psychopathic offender law and a law \"to provide for the treatment of sexual psychopaths in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes.\" The law went into effect on June 9, 1948.\n\nOn May 5, 1950, the Uniform Code of Military Justice was passed by Congress and was signed into law by President Harry S. Truman, and became effective on May 31, 1951. Article 125 forbids sodomy among all military personnel, defining it as \"any person subject to this chapter who engages in unnatural carnal copulation with another person of the same or opposite sex or with an animal is guilty of sodomy. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete the offence.\"\n\nOn June 25, 1952, the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 was vetoed by President Truman because he regarded the bill as \"un-American\" and discriminatory. The bill prohibits \"aliens afflicted with a psychopathic personality, epilepsy, or a mental defect\" from entry into the United States. Congress would later override his veto and implemented the act into law.\n\nOn April 27, 1953, President Dwight D. Eisenhower signed Executive Order 10450 which prohibits Federal employees from being members of a group or organization considered subversive. The order lists \"sexual perversion\" as a security risk constituting grounds for termination or denial of employment. The order went into effect on May 27, 1953.\n\nWithout explicitly referring to homosexuality, the executive order responded to several years of charges that the presence of homosexual employees in the State Department posed blackmail risks. Attorney General Herbert Brownell Jr. explained that the new order was designed to encompass both loyalty and security risks and he differentiated between the two: \"Employees could be a security risk and still not be disloyal or have any traitorous thoughts, but it may be that their personal habits are such that they might be subject to blackmail by people who seek to destroy the safety of our country.\"\n\nThe press recognized the revolutionary nature of the new executive order. The \"Washington Post\" said that it established not a loyalty test but a \"suitability test.\" Some in government referred to their new \"integrity-security\" program. Some of those the press expected to be excluded from federal employment included \"a person who drinks too much,\" \"an incorrigible gossip,\" \"homosexuals,\" and \"neurotics.\"\n\nIn 1953, Congress changed the solicitation law in the District of Columbia so that the jail term of up to 90 days was retained, but the maximum fine was raised to $250, and the reference to the power of judges to \"impose conditions\" on the defendant was removed. The law went into effect on June 29, 1953.\n\nOn February 2, 1950, Senator Lyndon B. Johnson voted for Uniform Code of Military Justice.\n\nOn October 19, 1964, Walter Jenkins, a longtime top aide to President Johnson, had been arrested by District of Columbia Police in a YMCA restroom. He and another man were booked on a disorderly conduct charge.\n\nAfter becoming a controversy prior to the 1964 presidential election, the American Mental Health Foundation wrote a letter to President Johnson protesting the \"hysteria\" surrounding the case:\n\nAfter reelection during his second term on October 3, 1965, Johnson signed the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, which added \"sexual deviation\" as a medical ground for denying prospective immigrants entry into the United States. The bill went into effect on June 30, 1968.\n\nIn August 1970, Richard Nixon, on the issue of same-sex marriage, said \"I can't go that far; that's the year 2000! Negroes [and whites], okay. But that's too far!\"\n\nOn May 13, 1971, in a conversation with John D. Ehrlichman and H. R. Haldeman, Nixon went on to discuss negative perception of homosexuality. He made the assertion that it led to the fall of Ancient Greece, referring to the promotion of same-sex relations in Ancient Greece. He also related homosexuality with areas of San Francisco known for a large gay male population, saying he would not shake hands with persons there.\n\nIn 1972, San Francisco's Gay Activists Alliance disbanded and formed the Gay Voter's League, a group that campaigned for the reelection of President Richard Nixon. In October 1972, representative of the Committee to Re-elect the President addressed gay voters on behalf of Richard M. Nixon's campaign in San Francisco. The event was organized by the Gay Voters League of San Francisco.\n\nOn August 25, 1965, Rep. Gerald Ford voted for the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965.\n\nOn March 5, 1976, when asked about the issue of gay rights, with respect to hiring, employment, and housing, Gerald Ford said \"I recognize that this is a very new and serious problem in our society. I have always tried to be an understanding person as far as people are concerned who are different than myself. That doesn't mean that I agree with or would concur in what is done by them or their position in society. I think this is a problem we have to face up to, and I can't give you a pat answer tonight. I just would be dishonest to say that there is a pat answer under these very difficult circumstances\".\n\nIn 1976, during that year's presidential campaign, President Gerald Ford was \"zapped\" by activists in Ann Arbor, Michigan over federal immigration rules. The protests forced President Ford to admit that he was not aware that homosexuality was used as a basis for exclusion in immigration rulings.\n\nGerald Ford, as former president, formally opposed the Briggs Initiative in 1977, which sought to ban homosexuals from teaching in public school. In October 2001, he broke with conservative members of the Republican party by stating that gay and lesbian couples \"ought to be treated equally. Period.\" He became the highest ranking Republican to embrace full equality for gays and lesbians, stating his belief that there should be a federal amendment outlawing anti-gay job discrimination and expressing his hope that the Republican Party would reach out to gay and lesbian voters. He also was a member of the Republican Unity Coalition, which \"The New York Times\" described as \"a group of prominent Republicans, including former President Gerald R. Ford, dedicated to making sexual orientation a non-issue in the Republican Party\".\n\nIn February 1976, Carter said he opposed discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, but in June 1976 he withdrew his support of a gay rights plank in the Democratic Party platform.\n\nIn 1977, under the guidance of Jimmy Carter, a policy was removed which barred employment of gays from employment in the foreign service and Internal Revenue Service ended its policy that forced LGBT education and charity groups to publicly state that homosexuality is a \"sickness, disturbance, or diseased pathology.\" That same year, fourteen gay and lesbian activists were invited to the White House for the first official visit ever. Jimmy Carter publicly opposed the Briggs Initiative. However, in March 1980, Carter issued a formal statement indicating he would not issue an executive order banning anti-gay discrimination in the US federal government and that he would not support including a gay rights plank in the Democratic Party platform. In September 1980, the United States Department of Justice announced that immigration officials would no longer be allowed to ask whether an individual entering the United States was gay and therefore ineligible for admission. An individual would only be denied admission into the United States if the traveler self-identified as gay to the immigration official.\n\nIn 2004, Carter came out for civil unions and stated that he \"opposes all forms of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and believes there should be equal protection under the law for people who differ in sexual orientation\". In 2007, he called for ending the ban on gays in the military. In March 2012, Jimmy Carter came out in favor of same sex marriage.\n\nThe first chapter of what would become the national Log Cabin Republicans (LCR) formed in 1978 to fight California's Briggs Initiative, a ballot initiative that would have banned homosexuals from teaching in public schools. The chapter worked diligently and successfully convinced Governor Reagan to publicly oppose the measure. Reagan penned an op-ed against the Briggs Initiative in which he wrote, \"Whatever else it is, homosexuality is not a contagious disease like the measles. Prevailing scientific opinion is that an individual's sexuality is determined at a very early age and that a child's teachers do not really influence this.\"\n\nOn the 1980 campaign trail, he spoke of the gay civil rights movement:\n\nNo civil rights legislation for LGBT individuals passed during Reagan's tenure. Additionally, Reagan has been criticized by some LGBT groups for allegedly ignoring (by failing to adequately address or fund) the growing AIDS epidemic, even as it took thousands of lives in the 1980s. Reagan's Surgeon General from 1982 to 1989, Dr. C. Everett Koop, claims that his attempts to address the issue were shut out by the Reagan Administration. According to Koop, the prevailing view of the Reagan Administration was that \"transmission of AIDS was understood to be primarily in the homosexual population and in those who abused intravenous drugs\" and therefore that people dying from AIDS were \"only getting what they justly deserve.\"\n\nOn August 18, 1984, President Reagan issued a statement on the issue of same-sex marriage that read:\n\nMr. Reagan made the comment in response to a questionnaire from the conservative publishers of the Presidential Biblical Scoreboard, a magazine-type compilation of past statements and voting records of national candidates.\n\nIn 1981, during Nancy Reagan's 60th birthday party, White House interior decorator, Ted Graber, spent a night in the Reagans' private White House quarters with his male lover, Archie Case.\n\nIn 1988, the Republican Party's nominee, Vice President George H. W. Bush, endorsed a plan to protect persons with AIDS from discrimination.\n\nAs President, George H. W. Bush signed legislation that extended gay rights. On April 23, 1990, George H. W. Bush signed the Hate Crime Statistics Act, which requires the Attorney General to collect data on crimes committed because of the victim's race, religion, disability, sexual orientation, or ethnicity. It was the first federal statute to \"recognize and name gay, lesbian and bisexual people.\" On July 26, 1990, George H. W. Bush signed the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. On November 29, 1990, Bush signed the Immigration Act of 1990, which withdrew the phrase \"sexual deviation\" from the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) so that it could no longer be used as a basis for barring entry of immigration to the U.S. for homosexuals.\n\nIn a television interview, Bush said if he found out his grandchild was gay, he would \"love his child\", but tell him homosexuality was not normal and discourage him from working for gay rights. In February 1992, the chairman of the Bush-Quayle campaign met with the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force. In May 1992, he appointed Anne-Imelda Radice to serve as the Acting Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts. Losing ground in the 1992 Republican president primary to President Bush's far-right challenger, Pat Buchanan, the Bush campaign turned to the right, and President Bush publicly denounced same-sex marriage. The 1992 Log Cabin Republican convention was held in Spring, Texas, a Houston exurb. The main issue discussed was whether or not LCR would endorse the re-election of President George H. W. Bush. The group voted to deny that endorsement because Bush did not denounce anti-gay rhetoric at the 1992 Republican National Convention. Many in the gay community believed President Bush had not done enough on the issue of AIDS. Urvashi Vaid argues that Bush's anti-gay rhetoric \"motivated conservative gay Democrats and loyal gay Republicans, who had helped defeat Dukakis in 1988, to throw their support behind Clinton.\"\n\nIn 1992, the Council of the District of Columbia passed the \"Health Benefits Expansion Act\", which was signed into law by the Mayor of Washington, D.C. The bill, which established domestic partnerships in the District of Columbia, became law on June 11, 1992. Every year from 1992 to 2000, the Republican leadership of the U.S. Congress added a rider to the District of Columbia appropriations bill that prohibited the use of federal or local funds to implement the Health Care Benefits Expansion Act. On October 5, 1992, Bush signed the H.R. 6056 into law, which included the Republican rider to the appropriations bill.\n\nIn 2013, former President George H. W. Bush served as a witness at a same-sex wedding of Bonnie Clement and Helen Thorgalsen, who own a general store together in Maine. In 2015 the Boston Globe reported that Bush \"offered to perform the ceremony but had a scheduling conflict.\"\n\nIn 1992, Governor Bill Clinton, as a candidate for President, issued a public statement of support for repeal of Arkansas's sodomy law. Also in 1992, the Human Rights Campaign, America's largest LGBT rights organization, issued its first presidential endorsement in 1992 to Bill Clinton.\n\nBill Clinton's legacy on gay rights is a matter of controversy. LGBT rights activist Richard Socarides credits Clinton as the first President to publicly champion gay rights, but Clinton's signing of DOMA and DADT have led critics like Andrew Sullivan to argue Clinton was a detriment to rather than an ally for the LGBT rights movement.\n\nIn December 1993, Clinton implemented a Department of Defense directive known as \"Don't Ask, Don't Tell\", which allowed gay men and women to serve in the armed services provided they kept their sexuality a secret, and forbade the military from inquiring about an individual's sexual orientation. The policy was developed as a compromise after Clinton's proposal to allow gays to serve openly in the military met with staunch opposition from prominent Congressional Republicans and Democrats, including Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Sam Nunn (D-GA). According to David Mixner, Clinton's support for the compromise led to a heated dispute with Vice President Al Gore, who felt that \"the President should lift the ban ... even though [his executive order] was sure to be overridden by the Congress\". Some gay-rights advocates criticized Clinton for not going far enough and accused him of making his campaign promise to get votes and contributions. Their position was that Clinton should have integrated the military by executive order, noting that President Harry Truman used executive order to racially desegregate the armed forces. Clinton's defenders argue that an executive order might have prompted the Senate to write the exclusion of gays into law, potentially making it harder to integrate the military in the future. Later in his presidency, in 1999, Clinton criticized the way the policy was implemented, saying he did not think any serious person could say it was not \"out of whack\".\n\nOn September 21, 1996, Clinton signed into law the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), which defines marriage for federal purposes as the legal union of one man and one woman, allowing individual states to refuse to recognize gay marriages performed in other states. Paul Yandura, speaking for the White House gay and lesbian liaison office, said that Clinton's signing of DOMA \"was a political decision that they made at the time of a re-election.\" In defense of his actions, Clinton has said that DOMA was an attempt to \"head off an attempt to send a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage to the states\", a possibility he described as highly likely in the context of a \"very reactionary Congress.\" Administration spokesman Richard Socarides said, \"... the alternatives we knew were going to be far worse, and it was time to move on and get the president re-elected.\" Others were more critical. The veteran gay rights and gay marriage activist Evan Wolfson has called these claims \"historic revisionism\". In a July 2, 2011 editorial \"The New York Times\" opined, \"The Defense of Marriage Act was enacted in 1996 as an election-year wedge issue, signed by President Bill Clinton in one of his worst policy moments.\"\n\nDespite DOMA, Clinton, who was the first President to select openly gay persons for Administration positions, is generally credited as the first President to publicly champion gay rights. During his Presidency, Clinton controversially issued two substantial executive orders on behalf of gay rights, the first was in 1995 that lifted the ban on security clearances for LGBT federal employees and the second was in 1998 that outlawed discrimination based on sexual orientation in the federal civilian workforce. Under President Clinton's leadership, federal funding for HIV/AIDS research, prevention and treatment more than doubled. And Clinton also pushed for passing hate crimes laws for gays and for the private sector Employment Non-Discrimination Act, which, buoyed by his lobbying, failed to pass the Senate by a single vote in 1996. Advocacy for these issues, paired with the politically unpopular nature of the gay rights movement at the time, led to enthusiastic support for Clinton's reelection in 1996 by the Human Rights Campaign.\n\nClinton was the first President to select openly gay persons for Administration positions, appointing over 150 LGBT appointees. The first openly gay US ambassador, James Hormel, received a recess appointment from the President after the Senate failed to confirm the nomination.\n\nOn June 2, 2000, Clinton declared June to be Gay and Lesbian Pride Month, making him the first president to do so.\n\nIn 2008, Clinton publicly opposed the passage of California's Proposition 8 and recorded robocalls urging Californians to vote against it. In July 2009, he came out in favor of same-sex marriage. On March 7, 2013, Clinton called for the overturn of the Defense of Marriage Act by the US Supreme Court.\n\nIn his 1994 campaign to become the Governor of Texas, Bush pledged to veto any effort to repeal Texas's sodomy law, calling it \"a symbolic gesture of traditional values.\"\n\nIn 1997, Governor Bush signed into law a bill adding \"A license may not be issued for the marriage of persons of the same sex\" into the Texas Family Code.\n\nIn a 1998 Texas Gubernatorial election political awareness test, he answered no to the questions of whether Texas government should include sexual orientation in Texas' anti-discrimination laws and whether he supports Texas recognizing same-sex marriage.\n\nIn 1999, the Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Act, which would have increased punishment for criminals motivated by hatred of a victim's gender, religion, ethnic background or sexual orientation, was killed in committee by Texas Senate Republicans. Governor Bush was criticized for letting the hate crimes bill die in a Texas Senate committee. Bush spokesman Sullivan said the governor never took a position on the bill. According to Louvon Harris, sister of James Byrd, said that Bush's opposition to the bill reportedly revolved around the fact that it would cover gays and lesbians. The governor's office \"contacted the family and asked if we would consider taking sexual orientation out of the bill, and our answer was no, because the bill is for everybody. Everybody should be protected by the law.\" said Harris. In a 2000 presidential debate, Al Gore would attack Bush for allowing the bill to die in committee, with Bush responding Texas already had a hate crimes statute, and nothing more was needed. George W. Bush also stated his opposition New Jersey Supreme Court ruling that said the Boy Scouts of America must accept gays in their organization. \"I believe the Boy Scouts is a private organization and they should be able to set the standards that they choose to set,\" Bush said. Bush would also express his support for bans on gay foster parenting and adoption.\n\nDuring the 2000 campaign he did not endorse a single piece of gay rights legislation. In a 2000 Republican presidential debate, George W. Bush, said he opposes same-sex marriage, but supports states' rights when it came to the issue of same-sex marriage. During the campaign he had refused to comment on Vermont's civil unions law. On April 13, 2000, Governor Bush became first presumptive GOP presidential nominee ever to meet publicly with gay Republicans in Austin, Texas. On August 4, 2000, Bush received the endorsement of the Log Cabin Republicans, the GOP's largest gay group, for president. He also received the endorsement of the newly formed Republican Unity Coalition. In a 2000 presidential debate with Al Gore, Bush stated he supported the Defense of Marriage Act and the \"Don't ask, don't tell\" policy. However, he stated that he opposed sodomy laws, a reversal of his position as governor of Texas.\n\nGeorge W. Bush was mostly neutral towards LGBT rights as president. In his eight years of office, Bush's views on gay rights were often difficult to ascertain, but many experts feel that the Bush White House wanted to avoid bad publicity without alienating evangelical conservative Christian voters. Thus, he did not repeal President Clinton's Executive Order banning discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in the federal civilian government, but Bush's critics felt as if he failed to enforce the executive order. He retained Clinton's Office of National AIDS Policy and was the first Republican president to appoint an openly gay man to serve in his administration, Scott Evertz as director of the Office of National AIDS Policy. Bush also became the second President, after President Clinton, to select openly gay appointees to his administration. Bush's nominee as ambassador to Romania, Michael E. Guest, became the second openly gay man U.S. Ambassador and the first to be confirmed by the Senate. He did not repeal any of the spousal benefits that Clinton had introduced for same-sex federal employees. He did not attempt to repeal Don't ask, don't tell, nor make an effort to change it.\n\nIn April 2002, White House officials held an unannounced briefing in April for the Log Cabin Republicans. On June 27, 2002, President Bush has signed a bill allowing death benefits to be paid to domestic partners of firefighters and police officers who die in the line of duty, permanently extending a federal death benefit to same-sex couples for the first time.\n\nIn 2003, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in \"Lawrence v. Texas\" that sodomy laws against consenting adults was unconstitutional. President Bush's press secretary Ari Fleischer refused to comment on the decision, noting only that the administration had not filed a brief in the case. In 2004, Bush said \"What they do in the privacy of their house, consenting adults should be able to do.\"\n\nPreviously, Bush said he supports states' rights when it came to marriage, however, after the Massachusetts Supreme Court decision in \"Goodridge v. Department of Public Health\", Bush announced his support for a U.S. constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage on February 24, 2004. Due to his support of the Federal Marriage Amendment (FMA), the Log Cabin Republicans declined to endorse the reelection of George W. Bush in 2004 by a vote of 22–2. The Palm Beach County chapter in Florida did endorse him, resulting in the revocation of their charter. On September 22, 2004, the Abe Lincoln Black Republican Caucus (ALBRC), a group of young urban Black gay Republicans, voted in a special call meeting in Dallas, Texas, to endorse President Bush for re-election. In an October president debate, Bush said he did not know whether homosexuality is a choice or not. In October 2004, Bush said that he supported civil unions of same-sex couples.\n\nIn 2007, Bush threatened to veto the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2007, which would have included sexual orientation in hate crimes, and Employment Nondiscrimination Act of 2007.\n\nIn December 2008, the Bush administration refused to support the U.N. declaration on sexual orientation and gender identity at the United Nations that condemns the use of violence, harassment, discrimination, exclusion, stigmatization, and prejudice based on sexual orientation and gender identity.\n\nIn his post presidency interviews, he refused to take a position on the issue of same-sex marriage.\n\nObama supported legalizing same-sex marriage when he first ran for the Illinois State Senate in 1996. When he ran for re-election to the Illinois Senate in 1998, he was undecided about legalizing same-sex marriage and supported including sexual orientation to the state's non-discrimination laws. During his time as a state senator he cosponsored a bill amending the Illinois Human Rights Act to include protections for LGBT people which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity in the workplace, housing, and all public places and supported Illinois gender violence act.\n\nObama supported civil unions, but opposed same-sex marriage when he ran for the U.S. Senate in 2004 and for U.S. President in 2008. He supported civil unions that would carry equal legal standing to that of marriage for same-sex couples, but believed that decisions about the title of marriage should be left to the states.\n\nDuring his time as senator, Obama co-sponsored the Employment Non-Discrimination Act, Matthew Shepard Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act, Tax Equity for Domestic Partner and Health Plan Beneficiaries Act, and Early Treatment for HIV Act.\n\nIn the 109th United States Congress, Obama received a score of 89% by the Human Rights Campaign.\n\nIn 2006, Obama voted against the Federal Marriage Amendment, which would have defined marriage as between one man and one woman in the US Constitution.\n\nIn 2007, Senator Obama said he opposed the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act and the Don't ask, don't tell policy when it passed and supported repealing it. He also said that homosexuality is not a choice, he supported adoption rights for same-sex couples, and he would work as president to extend the 1,000 federal rights granted to marriage couples to couples in civil unions. He also voted for the Kennedy Amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 that would expand federal jurisdiction to reach serious, violent hate crimes perpetrated because of the victim's sexual orientation and gender identity and the Tom Lantos and Henry J. Hyde United States Global Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria Reauthorization Act.\n\nIn the 2008 presidential election, he expressed his opposition to state constitutional bans on same-sex marriage in California, and Florida on the November ballot, but stated in a 2008 interview that he personally believes that marriage is \"between a man and a woman\" and that he is \"not in favor of gay marriage.\" In the 110th United States Congress, Obama received a score of 94% by the Human Rights Campaign. In the 2008 election, Obama received the endorsement of the following gay rights organizations: Houston GLBT Political Caucus, Human Rights Campaign, and the National Stonewall Democrats.\n\nPresident Barack Obama has taken many definitive pro-LGBT rights stances. In 2009, his administration reversed Bush administration policy and signed the U.N. declaration that calls for the decriminalization of homosexuality. (However, the United States removed its support for LGBT rights in October 2017 under President Trump, and voted against UN resolution condemning gay sex death penalty.) In June 2009, Obama became the first president to declare the month of June to be LGBT pride month; President Clinton had declared June Gay and Lesbian Pride Month. Obama did so again in June 2010, June 2011, June 2012, June 2013, June 2014, June 2015, and June 2016.\n\nOn June 17, 2009, President Obama signed a presidential memorandum allowing same-sex partners of federal employees to receive certain benefits. The memorandum does not cover full health coverage. On October 28, 2009, Obama signed the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, which added gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, and disability to the federal hate crimes law.\n\nIn October 2009, he nominated Sharon Lubinski to become the first openly gay U.S. marshal to serve the Minnesota district.\n\nOn January 4, 2010, he appointed Amanda Simpson the Senior Technical Advisor to the Department of Commerce, making her the first openly transgender person appointed to a government post by a U.S. President. He has appointed the most U.S. gay and lesbian officials of any U.S. president.\n\nAt the start of 2010, the Obama administration included gender identity among the classes protected against discrimination under the authority of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). On April 15, 2010, Obama issued an executive order to the Department of Health and Human Services that required medical facilities to grant visitation and medical decision-making rights to same-sex couples. In June 2010, he expanded the Family Medical Leave Act to cover employees taking unpaid leave to care for the children of same-sex partners. On December 22, 2010, Obama signed the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 into law.\n\nOn February 23, 2011, President Obama instructed the Justice Department to stop defending the Defense of Marriage Act in court.\n\nIn March 2011, the U.S. issued a nonbinding declaration in favor of gay rights that gained the support of more than 80 countries at the U.N. In June 2011, the U.N. endorsed the rights of gay, lesbian, and transgender people for the first time, by passing a resolution that was backed by the U.S., among other countries.\n\nOn August 18, 2011, the Obama administration announced that it would suspend deportation proceedings against many undocumented immigrants who pose no threat to national security or public safety, with the White House interpreting the term \"family\" to include partners of lesbian, gay and bisexual people.\n\nOn September 30, 2011, the Defense Department issued new guidelines that allow military chaplains to officiate at same-sex weddings, on or off military installations, in states where such weddings are allowed.\n\nOn December 5, 2011, the Obama administration announced the United States would use all the tools of American diplomacy, including the potent enticement of foreign aid, to promote LGBT rights around the world.\n\nIn March and April 2012, Obama expressed his opposition to state constitutional bans on same-sex marriage in North Carolina, and Minnesota.\n\nOn May 3, 2012, the Federal Bureau of Prisons has agreed to add an LGBT representative to the diversity program at each of the 120 prisons it operates in the United States.\n\nOn May 9, 2012, Obama publicly supported same-sex marriage, the first sitting U.S. President to do so. Obama told an interviewer that:\nIn the 2012 election, Obama received the endorsement of the following gay rights organizations: Equal Rights Washington, Fair Wisconsin, Gay-Straight Alliance, Human Rights Campaign, and the National Stonewall Democrats. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) gave Obama a score of 100% on the issue of gays and lesbians in the U.S. military and a score of 75% on the issue of freedom to marry for gay people.\n\nOn January 7, 2013, the Pentagon agreed to pay full separation pay to service members discharged under \"Don't Ask, Don't Tell.\"\n\nObama also called for full equality during his second inaugural address on January 21, 2013: \"Our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the law—for if we are truly created equal, then surely the love we commit to one another must be equal as well.\" It was the first mention of rights for gays and lesbians or use of the word \"gay\" in an inaugural address.\n\nOn March 1, 2013, Obama, speaking about \"Hollingsworth v. Perry\", the U.S. Supreme Court case about Proposition 8, said \"When the Supreme Court asks do you think that the California law, which doesn't provide any rationale for discriminating against same-sex couples other than just the notion that, well, they're same-sex couples—if the Supreme Court asks me or my attorney general or solicitor general, 'Do we think that meets constitutional muster?' I felt it was important for us to answer that question honestly. And the answer is no.\" The administration took the position that the Supreme Court should apply \"heightened scrutiny\" to California's ban—a standard under which legal experts say no state ban could survive.\n\nOn August 8, 2013, Obama criticized Russia's anti-gay law.\n\nOn December 26, 2013, President Obama signed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 into law, which repealed the ban on consensual sodomy in the UCMJ.\n\nOn February 16, 2014, Obama criticized Uganda's anti-gay law.\n\nOn February 28, 2014, Obama agreed with Governor Jan Brewer's veto of SB 1062.\n\nObama included openly gay athletes in the 2014 Olympic delegation, namely Brian Boitano and Billie Jean King (who was later replaced by Caitlin Cahow). This was done in criticism of Russia's anti-gay law.\n\nOn July 21, 2014, President Obama signed Executive Order 13672, adding \"gender identity\" to the categories protected against discrimination in hiring in the federal civilian workforce and both \"sexual orientation\" and \"gender identity\" to the categories protected against discrimination in hiring and employment on the part of federal government contractors and sub-contractors.\n\nObama was criticized for meeting with anti-gay Ugandan president Yoweri Museveni at a dinner with African heads of state in August 2014.\n\nLater in August 2014, Obama made a surprise video appearance at the opening ceremony of the 2014 Gay Games.\n\nOn February 10, 2015, David Axelrod's \"Believer: My Forty Years in Politics\" was published. In the book, Axelrod revealed that President Barack Obama lied about his opposition to same-sex marriage for religious reasons in 2008 United States presidential election. \"I'm just not very good at bullshitting,\" Obama told Axelrod, after an event where he stated his opposition to same-sex marriage, according to the book.\n\nIn 2015, the U.S. appointed Randy Berry as its first Special Envoy for the Human Rights of LGBT Persons.\n\nIn April 2015, the Obama administration announced it had opened a gender-neutral bathroom within the White House complex, located in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building next door to the West Wing. President Obama also responded to a petition seeking to ban conversion therapy (inspired by the death of Leelah Alcorn) with his pledge to advocate for such a ban.\n\nAlso in 2015, when President Obama declared May to be National Foster Care Month, he included words never before included in a White House proclamation about adoption, stating in part, \"With so many children waiting for loving homes, it is important to ensure all qualified caregivers have the opportunity to serve as foster or adoptive parents, regardless of race, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status. That is why we are working to break down the barriers that exist and investing in efforts to recruit more qualified parents for children in foster care.\" He was the first president to explicitly say gender identity should not prevent anyone from adopting or becoming a foster parent.\n\nOn October 29, 2015, President Barack Obama endorsed Proposition 1 in Houston, Texas.\n\nOn November 10, 2015, Obama officially announced his support for the Equality Act of 2015.\n\nIn June 2016, President Obama and Vice President Joe Biden met with the victims and families of victims of the Orlando Pulse nightclub massacre. Obama and Biden laid 49 bouquets of white roses to memorialize the 49 people killed in the tragedy impacting the LGBTQ community.\n\nOn June 24, 2016, President Obama designated the Stonewall National Monument in Greenwich Village, Lower Manhattan, as the first national monument in the United States to honor the LGBT rights movement.\nOn October 20, 2016, Obama endorsed Kate Brown as Governor of Oregon. On November 8, Brown became the first openly LGBT person to be elected governor in the United States. Brown is a bisexual woman who has also come out as a survivor of sexual assault and domestic violence. Before being elected in her own right, Brown had assumed the governorship due to a resignation. During that time, she signed legislation to ban conversion therapy on minors.\n\nDuring the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign, Donald Trump did not emphasize LGBT issues and at times gave ambiguous answers to questions on the subject. Trump said he supported \"traditional marriage\" and that the decision on whether to allow same-sex couples to marry should be determined state by state. At one point, he said that he would \"strongly consider appointing Supreme Court justices who would overturn same-sex marriage.\" In a letter to Brian Burch, president of CatholicVote.org, Trump expressed support for legislation that would protect the religious liberty of Christians who oppose marriage equality.\n\nAt the 2016 Republican National Convention, Trump said \"As your president, I will do everything in my power to protect our LGBTQ citizens from the violence and oppression of a hateful foreign ideology.\" Later at a campaign rally in Greeley, Colorado, Trump held up a rainbow flag onstage to appeal to his supporters.\n\nSoon after his election, President Trump said that the law on same-sex marriage was settled by the \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" decision and that he was \"fine with that,\" but some have expressed doubts over Trump's claims as Trump stated prior that he will \"strongly consider\" appointing Supreme Court justices who will overturn the \"Obergefell\" ruling.\n\nOn February 22, 2017, Trump reversed a directive from the Obama administration that allowed transgender students who attend public schools to use bathrooms that correspond with their gender identity.\n\nOn July 26, 2017, Trump announced on Twitter that transgender individuals would not be accepted or allowed to serve \"in any capacity\" in the U.S. military, citing \"tremendous medical costs and disruption\" related to transgender service members. Pentagon officials weren't prepared to provide specific details of what he meant and the comment received a rebuke by Senator John McCain. That same day, the Trump administration intervened in a private employment lawsuit urging a federal appeals court to rule that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 does not protect against job discrimination based on sexual orientation.\n\nOn August 25, 2017, Trump directed the Pentagon to stop admitting any new transgender individuals into the military and to stop providing medical treatments for sex reassignment, effective March 23, 2018. On August 29, 2017, Secretary of Defense James Mattis put a freeze on expelling transgender service members who are currently in the military, pending a study by experts within the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security.\n\nOn October 13, 2017, Trump became the first sitting president to address the Values Voter Summit, an annual conference sponsored by the Family Research Council, which is known for its anti-LGBT civil rights advocacy.\n\nOn December 5, 2017, when asked by a White House reporter if President Trump agreed that it would be okay for bakers to put up signs in their business windows saying \"We don't bake cakes for gay weddings.\", as his solicitor general had argued before the Supreme Court, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said that the president believes in religious liberty and \"that would include that.\"\n\nOn October 21, 2018, a \"New York Times\" article reported on a Department of Health and Human Services memo discussing plans to establish a definition of gender based on sex assignment at birth across federal agencies. The memo argued in favor of a definition of gender “on a biological basis that is clear, grounded in science, objective and administrable” and the use of genetic testing to determine sex in the event of disputes. That night, several hundred people gathered in Washington Square Park in opposition of the proposed policy. Over the following days, thousands of protesters gathered in Washington, D.C.; San Diego; Portland, Maine; Minneapolis; Los Angeles; Milwaukee; Boston; and other cities across the country.\n\nOn June 15, 2016, Trump announced Indiana Governor Mike Pence as his vice presidential running-mate. The decision was criticized by LGBT advocates due to Pence being known for committed opposition to same-sex marriage and his support for \"religious freedom laws\" that allow individuals and companies to claim religious exemptions from providing services to LGBT people.\n\nIn addition, Pence, during his Congressional campaign in 2000, stated, on his campaign website, that \"Resources should be directed toward those institutions which provide assistance to those seeking to change their sexual behavior.\" This has been interpreted by some to be a statement of support for Conversion therapy, an accusation that was not addressed until after Pence's election as Vice President, when Pence's spokesperson called the accusation a \"mischaracterization\".\n\nSecretary Hillary Clinton, who ran against Trump in the 2016 presidential election called Pence \"the most extreme pick in a generation\".\n\nIn October 2017, an article published by \"The New Yorker\" claimed Trump made light of Pence's anti-LGBT attitudes during a meeting with a legal scholar, saying he wants \"to hang them all\". Trump's comments attracted much criticism.\n\nThere were also allegations that Pence once published letters that were strongly anti-LGBT for the Indiana Policy Review Foundation publication \"Indiana Policy Review\", including one in 1993 that urged employers to not hire members of the LGBT community for work, claiming they are \"promiscuous\", carry \"extremely high rates of disease\", and \"not able bodied\".\n\nThe Democratic Party started to support some LGBT rights in the 1990s. Despite singing the Defense of Marriage Act, Bill Clinton was the first president who openly supported LGBT rights; he appointed several openly gay government officials during his administration. In 2012 national platform, the Democratic Party supported the repeal of the Defense of Marriage Act and supports \"equal responsibility, benefits, and protections\" for same-sex couples, Since President Barack Obama came out to support same-sex marriage in 2012, the Democratic Party explicitly supports same-sex marriage.\n\nIn the Democratic Party's 2016 national platform, the Democratic Party adopted its most progressive agenda on support LGBT rights, which include: Supports the Supreme Court Marriage Equality decision, Supports comprehensive federal nondiscrimination policies for LGBT Americans in [housing, employment, public accommodations, credit, jury service, education, and federal funding], Supports including LGBT people under sex discrimination laws, Opposes anti-LGBT state laws including anti-transgender legislation, Supports combating youth homelessness, Supporting policies to improve school climates for LGBT students, Supporting LGBT elders, Supporting access to trans healthcare, Ending violence against LGBT people including the crisis of anti-transgender violence, Supporting mental health, and \"Insuring fair treatment for LGBT veterans, including by proactively reviewing and upgrading discharge records for veterans who were discharged because of their sexual orientation.\" \n\nAccording to that agenda, \"Democrats believe that LGBT rights are human rights and that American foreign policy should advance the ability of all persons to live with dignity, security, and respect, regardless of who they are or who they love.\"\n\nIn the section on HIV/AIDS: Democrats believe an AIDS-free generation is within our grasp. But today far too many Americans living with HIV are without access to quality care and too many new infections occur each year. That is why we will implement the National HIV and AIDS Strategy; increase research funding for the National Institutes of Health; cap pharmaceutical expenses for people living with HIV and AIDS; reform HIV criminalization laws; and expand access for harm reduction programs and HIV prevention medications, particularly for the populations most at risk of infection. Abroad, we will continue our commitment to the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and increase global funding for HIV and AIDS prevention and treatment. Democrats will always protect those living with HIV and AIDS from stigma and discrimination.\"\n\nThe Republican Party opposes many LGBT rights. The 2012 Republican National Convention platform opposes any legal recognition of same sex couples, supported a ban on same-sex marriage through a federal constitutional amendment, along with state constitutional amendments banning same-sex marriage and the Defense of Marriage Act. However, Fred Karger's unsuccessful run for the 2012 Republican nomination for President made him America's first openly gay Republican presidential candidate.\n\nThough the Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump expressed his support to the LGBTQ community at the 2016 Republican National Convention, the Republican Party's 2016 Platform adapted its policies on LGBT issues, which include: Opposes Obergefell v. Hodges, Opposes banning conversion therapy on minors, Opposes transgender rights, Opposes covering LGBT people under discrimination policies (\"First Amendment Defense Act\"/\"Religious Freedom\" laws)\n\nThe Libertarian Party has endorsed libertarian perspectives on LGBT rights by supporting \"religious freedom\" and promoting marriage equality since it was created in 1971. The Libertarian Party also wished to lift the bans on same-sex marriage, but with the ultimate goal of marriage privatization.\n\nIn 1972 John Hospers of the Libertarian Party became the first openly gay man to run for president of the United States, as well as the Libertarian Party's first presidential candidate.\n\nThe Green Party has been in favor of sweeping LGBT rights and protections since the party's inaugural platform in 2000.\n\nThe more informal coalition of State Green Parties that existed in America from 1983 to 2000 also backed LGBT rights.\n\nThe Constitution Party (United States) is strongly opposed to LGBT rights, and supports criminal laws against homosexuality and cross-dressing.\nThe party is very conservative and has ties to Christian Reconstructionism, a far-right, political movement within conservative Christian churches.\n\nWhile many American socialist and communist political parties initially preferred to ignore the issue, most now support gay rights causes. Socialist groups generally integrate a stronger approach to gender identity issues than mainstream parties. The Socialist Party USA nominated an openly gay man, David McReynolds, as its Presidential candidate in 1980.\n\nThis is simplified for international comparison with other Wikipedia LGBT rights articles. A green checkmark denotes the right exists, while a red X denotes it doesn't; a check \"and\" an X in the same column means the right varies on a state-by-state basis.\nAccording to the 2014 Pew Research estimate, most of LGBT+ population is affiliated to Christianity(48%),followed by Non affiliated (41%) and Other Non -Christian faiths(11%).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7538331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7538331", "title": "Line of hereditary succession", "text": "Line of hereditary succession\n\nSuccessor to hereditary title, office or like, in case of the heritage being indivisible, goes to one person at a time. There are also other sorts of order of succession than hereditary succession (such as line of non-hereditary succession to democratic state offices).\n\nThe hereditary line of succession may be limited to heirs of the body, or may pass also to collateral lines, in case of extinction of heirs of the body, depending on the succession rules. These concepts are in use in English inheritance law.\n\nMain concepts for hereditary succession are usually either \"heir male\" or \"heir general\" – see further primogeniture (agnatic, cognatic, and also equal).\n\nCertain types of property pass to a descendant or relative of the original holder, recipient or grantee according to a fixed order of kinship. Upon the death of the grantee, a designated inheritance such as a peerage, or a monarchy, passes automatically to that living, legitimate, non-adoptive relative of the grantee who is most senior in descent, regardless of the relative age; and thereafter continues to pass to subsequent successors of the grantee, according to the same formula, upon the death of each subsequent heir.\n\nEach person who inherits according to this formula is considered an heir at law of the grantee and the inheritance may not pass to someone who is not a natural, lawful descendant or relative of the grantee.\n\nCollateral kin, who share some or all of the grantee's ancestry, but do not directly descend from the grantee, may inherit if there is no limitation to heirs of the body.\n\nThere are other kinds of formulae for inheritance, if the heritage can be divided: heirs portioners and partible inheritance.\n\n\"Heir male\" is a genealogical term which specifically means \"senior male by masculine primogeniture in the legitimate descent of an individual\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1601418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1601418", "title": "London Agreement (2000)", "text": "London Agreement (2000)\n\nThe London Agreement, formally the Agreement on the application of Article 65 of the Convention on the Grant of European Patents and sometimes referred to as the London Protocol, is a patent law agreement concluded in London on 17 October 2000 and aimed at reducing the translation costs of European patents granted under the European Patent Convention (EPC). The London Agreement is an optional agreement between member states of the European Patent Organisation, and has not altered other language requirements applying to European patent applications prior to grant.\n\nThe London Agreement entered into force on 1 May 2008.\n\nBefore 1 May 2008, once a European patent was granted or more precisely within three months (or six months for Ireland) from the date of grant, the patent had to be translated into an official language of each country in which the patentee wanted patent protection. If the translation of the European patent was not provided to the national patent office within the prescribed time limit, the patent was \"deemed to be void ab initio in that State.\" This situation still applies in the Contracting States wherein the Agreement has not entered into force.\n\nThis situation led to high translation costs for patent holders, reduced the incentives to apply for a European patent and, many argued, the situation was a burden on the competitiveness of the European economy, compared to the situation in the United States (see also EU's Lisbon Strategy).\n\nThe agreement provides that Contracting States that have an official language in common with an official language of the European Patent Office, i.e. English, French or German, no longer require translation of European patents into one of their official languages. Other contracting states have to choose one of the official languages of the EPO as a \"prescribed language,\" in which European patents have to be translated in order to enter into force in their country. They however keep the right to require translation of the claims in one of their official languages.\n\nIn addition, a Contracting State to the Agreement also keeps the right to require that, in case of a dispute relating to a European patent, a translation should be provided by the patentee in one of the official languages of the state.\n\nThe agreement has not altered other language provisions applying prior to grant of a European patent, such as the requirement that the claims of a European patent application have to be translated \"in the two official languages of the European Patent Office other than the language of the proceedings\" after receiving the communication under indicating that the EPO intends to grant a European patent.\n\nThe London Agreement entered into force for 14 countries on 1 May 2008, then for Lithuania as 15th contracting state on 1 May 2009, for Hungary as 16th contracting state on 1 January 2011, for Finland as 17th contracting state on 1 November 2011, for Macedonia as 18th contracting state on 1 February 2012, and for Albania as 19th contracting state on 1 September 2013. In September 2012, the Irish patent legislation was amended \"paving the way for Ireland's accession to the London Agreement.\" Namely, for European patents granted in French or German on or after 3 September 2012, the filing of a translation into English is no longer required in Ireland. Formally, Ireland became the 20th contracting state to the London Agreement on 1 March 2014. The London Agreement entered into force for Norway as 21st contracting state on 1 January 2015. On 1 January 2017, Belgian law was amended \"paving the way for Belgium's accession to the London Agreement.\" Namely, for European patents for which the mention of grant was published in the European Patent Bulletin on or after 1 January 2017, the filing of a translation \"into a Belgian national language\" is no longer required in Belgium no matter the language of the patent.\n\nThe current implementation of the London Agreement is as follows:\n\nPursuant to article 9 of the Agreement, the regime applies to European patents in respect of which the mention of grant was published on or after 1 May 2008. The new language regime however already applied for Switzerland, Liechtenstein and the United Kingdom to European patents granted on or after 1 February 2008. Germany had some trouble with the implementation of the London Agreement. The original implementation bill was flawed due to miscalculations of the date of entry into force of the new translation requirements for European patents designating Germany. A new implementation bill was then published on 11 July 2008. The old translation requirements are no longer applicable in Germany retroactively as of 1 May 2008.\n\nOn 14 April 2010, the Court of Appeal of Paris, France, issued 24 similar court decisions, holding that, since France has ratified the London Agreement, no translation in French needed to be filed at the French Patent Office (INPI) with respect of European patents maintained as amended after opposition proceedings, and that this applied also to European patents maintained as amended for which the original mention of grant has been published prior to the entry into force of the London Agreement. The French Court of Cassation upheld these decisions in November 2011.\n\nThe Agreement resulted from a process started at the Paris Conference on 24–25 June 1999, an intergovernmental conference of the member states of the European Patent Organisation held in Paris at the invitation of the French government.<ref name=\"OJ8–9/1999\"> European Patent Office, \"Intergovernmental conference of the member states of the European Patent Organisation on the reform of the patent system in Europe, Paris, 24 and 25 June 1999\", OJ EPO 8–9/1999, pp. 545-553.</ref> The conference adopted a mandate setting up two working parties with the task of submitting reports to the governments of the contracting states on reducing the cost of European patents and harmonising patent litigation. The first working party eventually led to the London Agreement while the second led to the proposed European Patent Litigation Agreement. More precisely, the first working party was instructed to draft an \"optional protocol to the EPC, under which its signatory states undertake not to require the translation of the description of the European patent, provided that it is available in English... [or alternatively] provided that it is available in one of the official EPO languages as designated by each signatory state\". The name \"London Protocol\" is sometimes used to refer to the London Agreement, because the initial mandate mentioned a Protocol, rather than an Agreement.\n\nThe Agreement was then adopted at the London Conference of 2000, followed by a seven-year ratification process. On 18 April 2007, at the European Patent Forum in Munich, Germany, Angela Merkel said that she and German Justice Minister Brigitte Zypries would fight to see the London Agreement realised. She called the London Agreement \"an important step in the right direction\".\n\nThis agreement was signed by 10 countries, namely Denmark, France, Germany, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. To enter into force, the deposit of instruments of ratification by at least eight countries, including at least France, Germany and the United Kingdom had to take place. Up to now, Monaco, Germany, United Kingdom, Switzerland, Netherlands, Liechtenstein, Luxemburg, Denmark, and France have deposited their instrument of ratification to the London Agreement while Slovenia, Iceland, Latvia and Croatia have deposited their instrument of accession (accession is also taken into account for the entry into force of the agreement). Sweden ratified on 29 April 2008.\n\nSince France deposited its instruments of ratification on 29 January 2008, the agreement entered into force on 1 May 2008.\n\nThe ratification of the London Agreement by France, which for some time was the last missing step for the Agreement to enter into force, followed a number of steps, including the recommendation in May 2006 by the French National Assembly and the French Senate to adopt the Agreement, the approval by the French Constitutional Council, the announcement in August 2007 by the new Prime Minister François Fillon that the London Agreement would soon be ratified, the approval by the French Council of Ministers, and eventually the adoption by the National Assembly and the Senate of the ratification act on 26 September 2007 and on 9 October 2007 respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "28570649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28570649", "title": "Ma Xiaohai", "text": "Ma Xiaohai\n\nMa Xiaohai (马尧海) is a 53-year-old computer science professor at Nanjing Technical University under arrest for organising wife-swapping events. He was sentenced to 3.5 years in jail, \"a more severe punishment because he did not admit the malicious and illegal nature of his conduct,\" according to the court.\n\nIn the so-called \"swingers trial\" in Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, he is the only one among 21 defendants to have plead \"not guilty\" to accusations of \"group licentiousness\" (聚众淫乱罪). The activities took place from 2007, and from September 2009 he was under police surveillance.\n\nMa was defended online by renowned Chinese sexologist Li Yinhe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20105755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20105755", "title": "Manitoba Provincial Judges Association", "text": "Manitoba Provincial Judges Association\n\nThe Manitoba Provincial Judges Association is an organization that represents the interests of provincial judges in Manitoba, Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "35038749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35038749", "title": "Martinsville Seven", "text": "Martinsville Seven\n\nThe Martinsville Seven were a group of seven African-American men from Martinsville, Virginia who were convicted and executed in 1951 for raping a white woman in 1949. At the time of their arrest, all but one was between the ages of 20 and 23. They were quickly tried in six separate trials (two agreed to be tried together) and each was sentenced to death. It was the largest mass execution for rape that had been reported in the United States. Under Virginia law, only black men were executed for rape convictions. According to historian Eric W. Rise, this case \"demonstrated the power of the southern legal system to enforce codes of racial behavior.\"\n\nThe Civil Rights Congress defended the men originally, and later conducted two marches and other attempts to raise awareness and conduct a public campaign on behalf of their agenda, and over the objections of NAACP, who feared further backlash because of the CRC's Communist affiliations, as many thought eventually occurred. Martin A. Martin and other NAACP attorneys defended the men on appeals, attempting to ensure fair trials, set due process precedents, and gain clemency or sentence reductions. The case attracted national newspaper coverage. The NAACP appeals also noted that since Virginia started use of the electric chair, only black men had been executed for rape in the state for what was a non-lethal crime. Though Governor William Tuck initially agreed to a stay during appellate litigation, by late July 1950, newly elected Governor John S. Battle refused to commute the men's sentences, saying he was horrified by the rapes. The appellate courts upheld the convictions and sentences, and the US Supreme Court twice refused to hear the cases, but would in 1977 finally adopt those arguments with respect to other cases.\n\nThe rapes occurred on Saturday, January 8, 1949, after Ruby Stroud Floyd, a 32-year-old white woman, entered a black neighborhood in Martinsville, Virginia to collect money for clothing she had sold. She previously distributed Jehovah's Witnesses materials in the neighborhood. Residents warned her not to stay too long, noting the time as late afternoon. She passed four men at the railroad tracks and continued into the neighborhood, where she was later assaulted by some of those four and other men. At 7:30 p.m., after dark, she went to Mary Wade's house for shelter, showing signs of an assault. The Wades called an ambulance for her.\n\nBased on her account, claiming to have been raped by several black men, the police quickly arrested Frank Hairston, Jr. and Booker Millner. Four more suspects were arrested that night, based in part on the first two men's confessions. By the next morning, all the men in custody had signed confessions. The last to be arrested, Joe Hampton, was taken into custody on January 10. All but one man was in his early 20s. After being held by police overnight, the first six all signed confessions, implicating themselves and each other. All admitted to being present at the crime, including Joe Hampton, although not all took part in rape. Only one of the accused had a prior criminal record, and most of the men were employed. When the NAACP appealed their convictions, its defense team noted that the police had questioned the men who had been drinking for some time, and without allowing them to consult with lawyers or their families.\n\nThe officials separated the men and acted to protect them from mob violence by taking them to other jails outside Henry County. The preliminary hearing occurred about a month later, and the grand jury two months after that. A grand jury (which included both black and white members) indicted all the men. Their quick arrest assured the community that stability was being preserved. Authorities showed increased professional conduct and procedures since the controversial arrest and execution of Odell Waller during World War II (he was initially represented at trial by the Trotskyite Revolutionary Workers League and ultimately executed).\n\nBased on their confessions, the police arrested:\nThe last was arrested January 10:\n\nThe judge appointed seven attorneys for the seven defendants. Since they ranged widely in experience, he asked the more experienced ones to aid the newer attorneys. Efforts by the defense team to change the trial's venue from the Martinsville Circuit Court—on the grounds that sensationalist press about the events made a fair trial impossible—were unsuccessful. There was considerable community sentiment against the men. Racism was less explicit in the trial than in cases known as \"legal lynchings\" in the South, in which innocent men were convicted (e.g., the Scottsboro Boys, Willie McGee), and the Groveland Boys.\n\nPrevious actions by civil rights attorneys had resulted in changes in the Virginia process, improving their procedures. For example, although most African Americans in Virginia had been disenfranchised since the early 20th century and were thus disqualified from serving on juries, the grand jury had included black members. In addition, each of the jury pools for the six separate trials contained some African Americans. But, none was selected for any of the seven juries, as the prosecutors rejected all of them on various grounds. The juries were all white and all male.\n\nJudge Kennon Whittle told the attorneys: \"this case must and will be tried in such a way as not to disturb the kindly feeling now, locally, existing between the races. It must be tried as though both parties were members of the same race.\" The prosecution did not explicitly discuss race; it argued the case based on the \"preservation of community stability, not the protection of southern womanly virtues,\" as had formerly been common.\n\nThe trials were held back to back, each with a separate jury of twelve white men. The prosecution, led by Irvin W. Cubine, introduced evidence showing that non-consensual sex took place. Some of the defendants acknowledged having sexual intercourse with Floyd, but said that it was consensual, or that she did not resist or say no, either considered necessary as a condition to prove rape. Virginia law authorized capital punishment for accessories, parties to the act of rape who did not take part in the act. On the stand, each of the defendants at least partially rejected his confession. In some cases, they said that the police had written the confessions, that the formal account varied from a handwritten version, and that they had not fully read the police version when signing and did not recognize that their own accounts had been changed.\n\nRise says that the white community disdained Ruby Floyd for her missionary work with the Jehovah's Witnesses and for her willingness to enter the black part of Martinsville. The prosecution pointed out that Floyd had had gone to an area considered unsafe for white women, ignored warnings of black residents of staying too long there, and not been attentive to her surroundings or the men she passed. A relative of the Hairstons has said that their family tradition always said that Floyd had been having an affair with one of the defendants, but this was not explored at trial.\n\nNo trial lasted more than a day, and the longest jury deliberation lasted less than two hours. The shortest was little more than half an hour. Although the defense attorneys pointed out mitigating circumstances, the juries quickly convicted each defendant and sentenced them to execution in the electric chair. The judge presiding was Kennon C. Whittle.\n\nVirginia had historically convicted and executed numerous black men accused of raping white women; for most of its history, only blacks were sentenced to death for rape. Since Virginia started using an electric chair in 1908, all 45 of the men sentenced to death for rape had been black men convicted of raping white women. From 1908 to 1951, only Texas, North Carolina and Georgia executed more black men for rape than did Virginia. An editorial in New York's \"Amsterdam News\" read, \n\nWhen we consider the fact that in the entire history of the Old Dominion state, no white man has ever received capital punishment for rape, then of necessity we must conclude that the death penalty for seven men for a singular crime was neither righteous, nor compassionate, nor wise.\n\nThe case of the Martinsville Seven was taken up by outside groups, including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) and the Civil Rights Congress (CRC). Martin A. Martin of the Richmond law firm Hill, Martin and Robinson, was the lead attorney for the appellate defense team for the NAACP in Virginia, as his firm had considerable experience with civil rights cases. The NAACP did not want the CRC to participate in the litigation directly. Martin and the NAACP also agreed to represent the men in an appeal for the Seven with the Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals. They applied the bulk of the funds raised to the defense of clients. The NAACP's interest was in establishing legal precedent \"for the benefit of due process and equal protection in general and the Negroes' rights in particular.\" Their concern was ensuring a fair trial.\n\nOne of the convicted men's parents contacted the CRC directly and asked one of its lawyers to defend their son DeSales Grayson. The CRC focused on producing pamphlets and publicity for outside campaigns to raise awareness about the case, including internationally, and hoped to put pressure on government officials. The CRC began to organize mass actions in Richmond.\n\nIn their appeals, Martin and the NAACP discussed the unfairness of the venue, the pressure on later juries to arrive at the same sentence as the earlier ones, and the historical racial disparities in application of death penalty sentences in the state. They noted the assaults of Floyd had no evidence of homicidal intent. The Court of Appeals upheld the rulings on March 13, 1950, with Chief Justice Edward W. Hudgins writing: \"one can hardly conceive of a more atrocious, a more beastly crime\". Together representatives, both black and white, of the CRC and NAACP, as well as other citizens, met with Battle in June 1950 to appeal for a pardon or clemency for the defendants in the case. They argued for lesser sentences, but Battle resisted their pleas.\n\nThe NAACP thought that involvement by the CRC in appeals could endanger the defendants both because of their inflammatory tactics and its communist affiliation. In this period of the second Red Scare, Senator Joseph McCarthy and the House Un-American Activities Committee had raised alarms about purported communist influence in government and society. Both African American Newspapers, the \"Richmond Afro-American\" and \"Norfolk Journal and Guide\" concluded the national and international crusades by the CRC hurt the defendants' chances for clemency.\n\nAfter exhausting the appeals process, with the US Supreme Court twice declining to hear the case, the NAACP and CRC began to appeal to executive offices. Newly elected Virginia Governor John S. Battle refused their request for clemency. In advance of a large planned CRC demonstration in the state capital, Governor Battle doubled the capital guard and alerted the state militia. On January 30, 1951, 400 protesters arrived in Richmond, appealing to Battle on the issue of racial disparity in sentencing. Governor Battle listened to their claims but was unwilling to bend on the issue of the Seven, saying: \"The prisoners have not been convicted because they are Negroes and should not be released because they are Negroes.\" He was appalled at the nature of the crime.\n\nThe CRC also had organized an international campaign, and Governor Battle was swamped by letters from overseas asking him to commute the sentences of the men. He resented being under so much pressure. One telegram from Moscow was signed by \"workers in science, literature, the arts,\" including composers Dmitri Shostakovich and Sergei Prokofiev. Another, from China, called the sentence a \"barbaric\" example of American \"fascist hooliganism\". The men were executed in early February.\n\nIn 1977, in its ruling in \"Coker v. Georgia\", the US Supreme Court ruled that \"it is repugnant to an enlightened society for the state to kill a person for a crime that does not result in death,\" declining to extend the death penalty to a person guilty of raping an adult woman.\n\nAll of the appeals by the NAACP failed. The Seven were executed at the Virginia State Penitentiary in early February 1951. The first four were executed at 15-minute intervals on February 2. The remaining three were executed on February 5, 1951. The day before the youngest of the seven was executed, he said, \"God knows I didn't touch that woman and I'll see ya'll on the other side.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "38920935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38920935", "title": "Maternity leave in the United States", "text": "Maternity leave in the United States\n\nMaternity leave in the United States is regulated by US labor law. There is a right to a temporary and unpaid period of absence from employment granted to expectant or new mothers during the months immediately before and after childbirth. These policies are generally aimed at supporting the mother's full recovery from childbirth and facilitating a stronger mother-child bond. The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA) requires 12 weeks of unpaid leave annually for most mothers of newborn or newly adopted children.\n\nThis is one of the lowest levels of leave in the industrialized world. In comparison to other countries, the United States is one of the only countries in the world, and the only OECD member, that has not passed laws requiring business and corporations to offer paid maternity leave to their employees.\n\nBetween 1961 and 1965, only 14% of mothers participated in the workforce within 6 months of their child's birth.\n\nPrior to the enactment of FMLA legislation in 1993, maternity leave coverage was governed by state law, collective bargaining agreements and employer policies. The first set of maternity leave related policies emerged in the late 1960s. By 1969, five states had enacted Temporary Disability Insurance laws protecting employees from income loss in the occurrence of a temporary medical disability. Under this legislation, new mothers were granted leaves corresponding to the benefits that other employees received for temporary illness or disability. This state-level trend of maternity leave legislation continued into the 1970s and 1980s where multiple other states passed more explicit recognitions of new mothers' rights to a temporary leave of absence. Ultimately, 12 states and the District of Columbia had implemented measures requiring at least some private sector employers to offer maternity leave packages to its employees. Even in the absence of this formal legislation, employees in other states often obtained maternity leave through collective bargaining. Employees frequently held enough bargaining power to influence employer policies and negotiate for the inclusion of maternity leave protection.\n\nDespite some localized employees' access to maternity leave, there was growing pressure for national maternity leave legislation in the early 1990s. Many new mothers continued to be excluded from such maternity leave provisions despite growing national demand. Women now enjoyed greater employment opportunities and changing gender norms that encouraged increased labor involvement. This increased female employment extended to mothers as well who now were now more likely to engage in the workforce even if they had a young child. The labor participation rate of mothers with children under the age of 1 rose from 31% in 1976 to 54% in 1992. In spite of a high labor force participation rate, only an estimated 40% of working women had access to explicit maternity leave protection. This inadequate national coverage provoked intense protest and growing national consensus on the value of maternity leave. Ultimately, the increased salience and galvanized national support prompted the 1993 enactment of the Family and Medical Leave Act mandating maternity leave.\n\nThe Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (or FMLA), signed into law during President Bill Clinton's first term, mandates a minimum of 12 weeks unpaid leave to mothers for the purpose of attending to a newborn or newly adopted child. However, the act does not attain universal coverage as it includes several limiting stipulations. In order to receive maternity leave, employees must work in a firm of 50 or more employees, maintain employment with the same business for 12 months and have accumulated at least 1,250 working hours over those 12 months. As of 2012, 59% of American employees were eligible under the FMLA.\n\nThe FMLA is the only law that addresses family leave. Two other Federal laws, the Pregnancy Discrimination Act and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act's amendment of the Fair Labor Standards Act, provide some additional protection for parents on the birth of a child.\n\nMany states have supplemented these federal regulations and provided more extensive maternity leave benefits, including expanding paid or flexible sick time, expanding access for workers in smaller companies or with less time on the job, right to pump that expands on federal law, and pregnancy accommodations.\n\nAs of 2016, 12 states have enacted no additional laws or programs to support family leave before or after birth. Fourteen states, along with the District of Columbia, have addressed eligibility requirements by lowering the firm-size threshold from 50 or more employees down to as low as 10 employees. Seven other states, in addition to the District of Columbia, have adopted more generous maternity leave lengths that allow longer absences for the purpose of child rearing. Moreover, some states have enacted legislation enhancing the benefits of leave programs.\n\nCalifornia, New Jersey, and Rhode Island for instance, operate programs that require private-sector employers to pay their employees who utilize maternity leave at partial replacement rates. New York passed paid family leave legislation, which includes maternity leave, in 2016 — starting off at 8 weeks and 50% of pay in 2018, and reaching 12 weeks and 67% of pay in 2021.\n\nWashington state passed a paid family leave bill in 2007, but it lacked a funding mechanism and has not yet gone into effect. Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia designate childbirth as a temporary disability thus guaranteeing mothers paid maternity leave through Disability Insurance (TDI) provisions.\n\nThe Department of Defense has regulated the amount of maternity leave a military member can take. Before February 5, 2016 the leave was six weeks long for active duty members or reservists who had previously done twelve months of active duty time. On January 28, 2016, the Defense Secretary, Ashton Carter, increased the paid maternity leave to twelve weeks for all branches. Traditional reservists, however, are given an eighty-four-day excusal, not leave.\n\nIn the United States Air Force AFI36-3003, it states that the maternity leave starts after being released from the hospital from giving birth, as also defined for other branches. \"Shared benefits\" can be created if both parents are active Air Force members. Therefore, a sum of up to twelve weeks can be taken by one parent or distributed amongst the two parents. However, two married active duty members cannot create \"shared benefits\" in the Army, according to the Army Directive 2016-09 (Maternity Leave Policy).\n\nThere was a stance by the previous Secretary of the Navy, Ray Mabus, to increase the maternity leave from six to eighteen weeks for the Navy and Marine Corps beginning on July 2, 2015. It was implemented until January 28, 2016, however, it remained eighteen weeks for those who were pregnant previous to and on March 3, 2016.\n\nIt was a significant leap to go from six to twelve weeks of maternity leave. Other benefits have also been increased to improve the lives of those with newborn or newly adopted children. These benefits include an increase of child care hours to fourteen hours a day, and allowing active duty members more ability to family plan by paying for the sperm and egg freezing. These decisions were made by the previous Defense Secretary \"in an effort to support military families, improve retention and strengthen the force of the future.\"\n\nStudies assert that an additional week of maternity leave among industrialized countries reduces infant mortality rates by 0.5 deaths per 1,000 live births. There is also a positive correlation between maternal leave and the duration of breast-feeding. Mothers who are not engaged in employment may be more able to participate in consistent breast-feeding; babies who are breastfed may be less likely to get a variety of infections and are also at a lower risk for asthma, obesity, and infant death syndrome. Research suggests that breast-feeding has the ability to yield substantial health improvements in disease prevention and immune system build-up. Moreover, further evidence indicates that maternal care is especially crucial during the first couple of months following child birth, or the time in which American maternity leave is in effect.\n\nThe medical definition of postpartum is the time frame between childbirth and the return of the mother's reproductive organs to their non pregnant state. For women that return to work during this postpartum period, the stress of maintaining a balance between their professional and parenting responsibilities has been shown to weaken their immune systems and interact poorly with their psychological state.\n\nDepression is a condition with both mental and physical side effects and can be very debilitating depending on the severity. The risk factors vary from person to person and women are typically diagnosed with depression more than men. Other than trauma, physical illness, certain personality traits, and previous family history, pregnancy can be a cause of depression in women. Symptoms of this disease include, loss of interest in activities, difficulty focusing, thinking, making decisions, and remembering things, anxiety, irritation, slowed speaking, physical pains, and feelings of sadness and worthlessness. Any combination of these symptoms makes simple tasks seem daunting and almost impossible. Women who just gave birth are already managing recovering from the severe physical symptoms while taking care of a newborn child and adding symptoms of depression to this mixture can be a huge burden on them. When these new mothers go back to work they have the added stress of worrying about their child and balancing their family and work roles. Mothers who return to work soon after a birth of a child are likely to get depressed than other mothers; therefore, longer paid maternity leave has the potential to help new mothers. Women will have more time to recover from giving birth both mentally and physically, which can help prevent the onset of depression.\n\nFour states currently offer paid family leave: California, Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Rhode Island. In New Jersey, women who took paid leave in the year after giving birth were 40% less likely to receive public aid or food stamps. According to a California-based study, 87% of employers reported that the paid leave requirement did not increase costs; 9% note that it saved money due to decreased turnover and other costs.\n\nThough the overall labor force participation has declined since the year 2000, some economists argue that paid maternity leave in California has increased labor force participation among mothers. Mothers who receive paid maternity leave may be more likely to return to employment later, and then work more hours and earn higher wages.\n\nLess favorable maternity leave policies may inhibit a woman's career trajectory and promotion prospects. The extended period of absence of such policies often reduce a women's economic status and opportunities. During this hiatus, their job skills and experiences may deteriorate thus limiting their potential advancement. \n\nAvailable maternity leave options may also help lower the impact of children on career advancement, or the motherhood penalty. There currently exists a \"family gap\" between the pay of mothers and nonmothers. In the United States prior to the passage of the FMLA, mothers typically earned 70% of men's wages while nonmothers earned 90%. These earning disparities partially stemmed from insecure employment return prospects. Women without maternity leave protection were often forced to start over with a new employer following their absence. This interrupted their career progression and burdened them with the additional task of seeking new employment. Such factors ultimately impeded equitable access to income and career opportunities. Women as a group notably experience increasing income inequality as they age illustrating the impact of motherhood on their wage prospects. However, the implementation of FMLA addressed some of these impediments through the introduction of mandatory maternity leave. Mothers now are more likely to return to their previous employer due to this increased legal protection. The policy minimizes some of the negative externalities of motherhood by maintaining women's employment options even following maternity leave. Many policy experts though suspect that the remaining gender imbalance is largely attributable to the dearth of paid leave options. Women who worked for companies that provided paid maternity leave before they gave birth are more likely to take such leave for up to 12 weeks, and more likely to return to work more quickly thereafter.\n\nAmerican family policy perpetuates inequalities as many low-income women lack access to maternity leave. Under the current FMLA system, approximately 40% of United States workers are ineligible for benefits due to the brevity of their tenure or the smallness of their firm. These excluded populations are often low-waged and minority women thus furthering their already present disadvantage. Moreover, the unpaid aspect of the current policy limits access to those who are economically well off. The United States Department of Labor reported that over a 22-month period in 1999 and 2000, 3.5 million people needed leave but were unable to take it due to affordability concerns. The lack of monetary compensation may hinder the ability of women who are not as financially secure as others to balance employment with their family life.\n\nCalifornia is the first state to offer paid paternity leave weeks (six weeks, partial payment). New Jersey, Rhode Island, and New York since passed laws for paid family leave. In the rest of the US, paternity pay weeks are not offered (therefore neither paternity paid leave weeks), but fathers have access to unpaid paternity leave to care for their newborns (without new income). Often, fathers will take sick days or vacation time when they have newborns. There is also a growing number of fathers that go unpaid. Some employers are required by law to allow 12 weeks of unpaid family leave after the birth or adoption of a child. This law is under FMLA or Family Medical Leave Act. Fathers who have access to paid paternity leave give mothers the opportunity to engage in paid work, with a positive effect on female labor force participation and wages.\n\nThe United States military branches also show a minimal paternity leave. Although some branches give more time after the birth to take the leave, all branches give to ten days. This type of leave is only applicable to those who are married.\n\nLonger paternity leave increases the father's engagement with a child, which leads to the child's improved cognitive and mental health outcomes and fewer behavior problems.\n\nThe United States maternity leave policy is distinct for its relative scarcity of benefits in comparison to other industrialized countries. Thus, the legislation imposes relatively few restrictions on American firms and instead underscores employer discretion in the shaping of maternity leave policy. These firms are thus free to offer maternity leave policies on terms that are more aligned with corporate interests. This United States policy differs greatly from most other western countries in terms of maternity leave provision.\n\nThese stark maternity leave differentials are demonstrated in both the policy's length and compensation. In terms of the length of protected maternity leave, the United States currently ranks 20th out of the 21 highest-income countries. The United States is one of three countries, along with Oman and Papua New Guinea, that do not offer paid maternity leave. Countries that offer paid maternity leave include Mexico (12 weeks), United Kingdom (40 weeks), India (26 weeks), Chile (6 weeks before birth, 12 weeks after)http://www.dt.gob.cl/consultas/1613/w3-article-60107.html, Canada (1 year), and China (14 weeks). Although the United States does not guarantee paid maternity leave, employers may provide paid leave if they choose. There are three states in the United States that do provide paid maternity leave and they are California, New Jersey, and Rhode Island.\n\nMothers usually share baby care with their husbands. Fathers can have paid week leaves if they live in California (partial paid leave). In Slovenia fathers have 12 weeks of 100% paid paternity leave. In Sweden 480 days of 80% paid paternity leave weeks. In Norway 49 weeks of 100% paid paternity leave weeks or 59 weeks of 80% paid paternity leave. Finnish fathers have 11 partial paid leave weeks.\n\n"}
{"id": "32721332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32721332", "title": "Media Piracy in Emerging Economies", "text": "Media Piracy in Emerging Economies\n\nMedia Piracy in Emerging Economies is a report released by the Social Science Research Council in 2011. It contends that “high prices for media goods, low incomes, and cheap digital technologies are the main ingredients of global media piracy. If piracy is ubiquitous in most parts of the world, it is because these conditions are ubiquitous.”\n\n\"The Guardian\"'s Cory Doctorow commented that \"This report and its researchers are rare examples of academic rigour in a world of special pleading and cooked industry statistics.\" \"Computerworld\" UK blogger Glyn Moody wrote that \"Given the scope and rigour of this report, I think it will go down as a decisive moment when the discourse around piracy changed fundamentally, with the content industries being forced, finally, to explain and justify their methodologies, rather than simply stating their claimed results.\" Reuters' blogger Felix Salmon also hailed it as \"The best report ever on media piracy\". Canadian academic Michael Geist, writing in the \"Toronto Star\", found that \"While setting the record straight on piracy myths is valuable, the report's most important contribution comes from chronicling how piracy is primarily a function of market failure.\" Gilberto Gil, former culture minister of Brazil, was quoted saying the study is “required reading for anyone concerned with copyright and enforcement, or with the challenges of cultural globalization\".\n\nMagellan Media's founder Brian O'Leary invited to comment by O'Reilly Radar blogger Jenn Webb, was only in partial agreement with the report, noting that \"Concerns about convenience, availability and usability (the absence of onerous rights restrictions) factor into individual decisions about what and whether to pirate media products. This doesn't refute the Social Science Research Council's claim that higher prices in lower-wealth countries can lead to piracy. It does suggest that it may not be enough to just lower prices. I do agree fully with the SSRC's conclusion that enforcement has limited impact.\" \"Ars Technica\"'s Nate Anderson emphasized that the SSRC \"report debunks alleged link between piracy and terrorism\" put forward by a 2009 report of the RAND Corporation and funded by the motion picture business.\n\n"}
{"id": "5114992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5114992", "title": "Offshore trust", "text": "Offshore trust\n\nAn offshore trust is a conventional trust that is formed under the laws of an offshore jurisdiction.\n\nGenerally offshore trusts are similar in nature and effect to their onshore counterparts; they involve a settlor transferring (or 'settling') assets (the 'trust property') on the trustees to manage for the benefit of a person, class or persons (the 'beneficiaries') or, occasionally, an abstract purpose. However, a number of offshore jurisdictions have modified their laws to make their jurisdictions more attractive to settlors forming offshore structures as trusts. Liechtenstein, a civil jurisdiction which is sometimes considered to be offshore, has artificially imported the trust concept from common law jurisdictions by statute.\n\nOfficial statistics on trusts are difficult to come by as in most offshore jurisdictions (and in most onshore jurisdictions), trusts are not required to be registered, however, it is thought that the most common use of offshore trusts is as part of the tax and financial planning of wealthy individuals and their families. For instance, the founder of Wonga.com, Errol Damelin holds his shares through Castle Bridge Ventures, a trust based in the British Virgin Islands. While the family behind the Nando's restaurant chain, the Enthovens, reportedly use trusts in the Channel Islands as part of their financial planning. Other users of offshore trusts include Sir Ken Morrison, the British supermarket magnate, the Rothermere family who own the Daily Mail group and the late Bruce Gyngell who founded TV-am.\n\nHowever, offshore trusts have other uses too:\n\nBelow are the most common types of trusts:\n\nA Revocable Offshore Trust is a trust which can be liquidated or altered by the settlor according to the terms, that are set out in the Trust Deed.\n\nIn an Irrevocable Offshore Trust may not be changed or liquidated by the settlor.\n\nA Discretionary Offshore Trust enables the trustee to decide on the distribution of profits for different classes of beneficiaries.\n\nIn a Fixed trust, the distribution of income to the beneficiaries is fixed and can not be changed by trustee.\n\nA Hybrid Trust includes elements of discretionary and fixed trust.\n\n\nTrusts in general are subject to the rule against perpetuities which, in practical terms, puts limits on the length of time within which all trust property must be distributed. Because of the strictures of the rule, a number of trusts have been struck down in wildly hypothetical circumstances because of possible infringement of the rule (e.g., the \"fertile octogenarian\").\n\nMost offshore jurisdictions which have sophisticated trust laws have modified their laws relating to perpetuity to allow settlor to select lengthy, fixed, perpetuity periods, to avoid the use of \"Royal lives\" clauses. Many have also adopted \"wait and see\" laws, which mean that trusts which might potentially infringe the rule against perpetuities are no longer automatically invalid, but instead the trust remains valid unless and until the perpetuity period is breached.\n\nIn Jersey, the rule against perpetual trusts has actually been abolished entirely. This has also been done in a number of U.S. states.\n\nTrusts in general are subject to the rule in \"Bartlett v Barclays Bank\" which provides (briefly) that where trust property includes the shares of a company, then the trustees must take a positive role in the affairs on the company. The rule has been criticised, but remains part of trust law in many common law jurisdictions.\n\nA number of offshore jurisdictions (notably the Cayman Islands, with STAR trusts, and the British Virgin Islands, with VISTA trusts) have created special forms of trust that may be expressly settled without imposing an obligation of the trustees to interfere in management in this way.\n\nParadoxically, these specialised forms of trusts seem to infrequently be used in relation to their original intended uses. STAR trusts seem to be used more frequently by hedge funds forming mutual funds as unit trusts (where the fund managers wish to eliminate any obligation to attend meetings of the companies in whose securities they invest) and VISTA trusts are frequently used as a part of orphan structures in bond issues where the trustees wish to divorce themselves from supervising the issuing vehicle.\n\nCritics in onshore jurisdictions have suggested that these specialised trusts have provisions that so fundamentally undermine the nature of a trust that they should not be recognised in an onshore jurisdiction, but whatever the view of onshore tax authorities and regulators, it seems unlikely that the courts in onshore jurisdictions would be prepared to derogate from the Hague Convention on the Law Applicable to Trusts and on their Recognition.\n\nCertain jurisdictions (notably the Cook Islands, but the Bahamas also has a species of asset protection trust) have provided special trusts which are styled as asset protection trusts. While all trusts have an asset protection element, some jurisdictions have enacted laws trying to make life difficult for creditors to press claims against the trust (for example, by providing for particularly short limitation periods). In practice, the effectiveness of such trusts is limited as the bankruptcy and/or divorce laws in the settlor's home jurisdiction will usually operate to set aside transfers to the trusts, and most jurisdictions (including offshore jurisdictions) set aside transactions entered into defraud creditors.\n\nMost traditional jurisdictions only permit trustees to make very conservative financial investments. Most offshore jurisdictions give trustees flexibility and permit (or allow the settlor to specify in the trust instrument that they are permitted) a wider range of investments, including higher risk investments such as derivatives and futures contracts and specific investments, such as an investment into a small private company, in any area of the world.\n\nWhilst in most common law jurisdictions, trusts must either be formed for the benefit of persons, or charitable purposes, many offshore jurisdictions have also amended their laws to permit trusts to be formed for non-charitable purposes. Such trusts need to enforce a \"protector\" to be able to enforce the terms of the trust, but doubt remains as to who should be treated as the beneficial owner of the trust funds for tax purposes prior to its distribution.\n\nNo offshore jurisdiction yet appears to have made a serious effort to expand upon the flexibility of discretionary trusts in relation to certainty of objects, as expounded in \"McPhail v Doulton\". This may be because the common law rules are now considered to be sufficiently flexible to make no widening necessary to attract trust business.\n\nMany offshore jurisdictions have also legislated to abolish certain anachronistic common law rules which sometimes cause difficulty for trust planning. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "19346236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19346236", "title": "Open Source Observatory and Repository", "text": "Open Source Observatory and Repository\n\nThe Open Source Observatory and Repository (OSOR) is an online project launched by the European Commission under the IDABC programme, to support the distribution and re-use of software developed by or for public sector administrations across Europe, connecting EU services and Member States.\n\nIn December 2011, the OSOR.eu and SEMIC.eu communities moved to a new collaborative platform - Joinup. The reason for the migration to Joinup was to provide public administrations in Europe with better communication and collaboration tools, to share experiences with interoperability solutions for public administrations, to increase the number of users and to leverage synergies between the OSOR.eu and SEMIC.eu user communities, while optimising the use of public funding.\n\nThe OSOR.eu platform aims to support and encourage the re-use of publicly financed Open Source Software developments (OSS or FLOSS for \"Free, Libre & Open Source Software\") that are of particular use for public administrations in Europe.\nOSOR.eu aims to support the collaborative development of OSS applications and solutions, in particular cross-border collaboration and exchange of knowledge or software.\n\nAll of OSOR's services are now available on Joinup.eu:\n\n\nThe OSOR project is financed by the European Union, managed by the European Commission under the Directorate-General for Informatics (DIGIT), and supported by the Member States' national, regional and local administrations.\n\n"}
{"id": "6772197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6772197", "title": "Passive foreign investment company", "text": "Passive foreign investment company\n\nFor purposes of income tax in the United States, U.S. persons owning shares of a passive foreign investment company (PFIC) may choose between (i) current taxation on the income of the PFIC or (ii) deferral of such income subject to a deemed tax and interest regime. The provision was enacted as part of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 as a way of placing owners of offshore investment funds on a similar footing to owners of U.S. investment funds (regulated investment companies). The original provisions applied for all foreign corporations meeting either an income or an asset test. However, 1997 amendments limited the application in the case of U.S. Shareholders of controlled foreign corporations.\n\nAny foreign (i.e., non-U.S.) corporation meeting either the income test or the asset test is a PFIC with respect to each shareholder when the test is met. PFIC status applies separately for each U.S. person owning shares, and also separately with respect to shares acquired at different times. PFIC status does not, itself, have any impact on the foreign corporation or foreign shareholders.\n\nThe \"income test\" is met if 75% or more of the foreign corporation's gross income is passive income, defined as foreign personal holding company income with modifications.\n\nThe \"asset test\" is met if 50% or more of the foreign corporation's average assets (as defined in the IR Code) produce, or could produce passive income, or are assets (such as cash and bare land) that produce no income. The test is applied based on the foreign corporation's adjusted basis, for U.S. tax purposes, of the assets, or at the election of the particular shareholder, fair market values of the assets.\n\nLook-thru of 25% subsidiaries: Interests in 25% or more owned foreign corporations are treated similarly to partnership interests (i.e., looked through) for the income test and the asset test.\n\nIf a U.S. person receives income from a PFIC or recognizes gain from disposition of shares of a 1291 fund, such person is subject to a tax and interest regime. A shareholder may elect out of this regime (see QEF below). The regime applies only to any distribution or gain in excess of 125% of the average distributions for the prior three years. This regime is as follows:\nFirst, such income or gain (in excess of the 125%) is allocated pro rata to each day of the person's holding period for the particular shares.\nNext, the amounts allocated to prior years after 1986 are excluded from current year taxable income.\nThen tax is computed on amounts allocated to each prior year at the maximum rate of tax applicable to the type of taxpayer for such year (prior year tax).\nThen interest is computed on such prior year tax as if it were an underpayment of tax (interest charge).\nFinally, current year tax is increased by the aggregate of prior year tax amounts and interest charge amounts.\n\nThe interest charges are computed using compound interest on an April 15 to April 15 basis. Given a sufficiently long holding period, the tax and back-interest will exceed 100%. However, the shareholder may avoid >100% tax by periodically selling and repurchasing his holdings, using the after-tax proceeds to repurchase shares.\n\nShareholders of a PFIC (including a QEF) are eligible for foreign tax credit with respect to the current and deemed prior year taxes, including the deemed paid credit for 10% corporate shareholders of the PFIC.\n\nEach U.S. person owning shares of a PFIC may elect to include their share of the ordinary income and net capital gains of the PFIC(similar to shareholders of a mutual fund), provided that the PFIC issues the necessary PFIC annual information statement. The PFIC annual information statement is a rough equivalent of Form 1099. This election is effective for the year in which the election is made and all subsequent years. The tax and interest regime is avoided to the extent this election applies.\n\nThis election helps U.S. persons holding shares of a PFIC by treating the income earned through the PFIC similar to other US entities. For example, shareholders of corporations are usually subject to U.S. tax only when the income is distributed. In addition, shareholders of a U.S. mutual fund are subject to tax on their pro rata share of ordinary income and capital gains of the mutual fund.\n\nQEF status applies only to the shares of a particular shareholder acquired during a tax year for which the QEF election was in force, assuming that the QEF election remains in place throughout the holding period. Such status does not apply to other shareholders or to persons acquiring the particular shares.\n\nQEF status fully avoids the tax and interest regime only if it is effective from the beginning of the share's holding period. If a shareholder elects QEF status for particular shares at a date later than the acquisition date, one of three additional elections may be made to \"purge\" PFIC status for prior years. The shareholder may make one of two gain recognition elections (deemed sale and mark to market) or, if the shareholder is a corporation, a deemed dividend election. In each case, the gain or deemed dividend recognized under the election is subject to the tax and interest regime.\n\nA shareholder of a PFIC may also elect each year to recognize gain or loss on the shares as if he, she or it had sold the PFIC shares at fair market value, although gains are taxed as ordinary income. Losses generate ordinary income deductions to the extent they reverse prior gains, on a share-by-share basis, after which they are claimed on US schedule D. Such election is available only for shares the market value of which is readily determinable (e.g., regularly traded shares). Shares subject to this election are not subject to the tax and interest regime.\nAlso, this election is independent of prior PFIC elections (i.e. QEF or Sect 1291 election). for example: If stock X was purchased in 2007 for $100, has a FMV on December 31, 2011, of $120, and no PFIC forms were filed until 2011 (when Sect 1296- Mark-to-market- election was made), no PFIC filings would be needed for the prior years as long as distributions were less than 125% and no capital gains occurred. For the current year, 8621 would be filed using Mark to market and the ordinary income would be $20.\n\nU.S. Shareholders (generally 10% or more owners) of a controlled foreign corporation (CFC) are not subject to the tax and interest regime with respect to any share which was not a share of a PFIC at any time before 1997. Such shareholders are, instead, subject to the CFC rules.\n\nEach U.S. person owning shares of a PFIC is required to file IRS Form 8621. Such form is used to report actual distributions and gain, as well as income and gains under a QEF election. Such form is also used to make the QEF and purging elections described above. Failure to file such form in a year in which no income is properly reported does not carry specific penalties, but may render the return incomplete and potentially subject to tolling of the statute of limitations.\n\n"}
{"id": "26726864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26726864", "title": "Poll taxes in the United States", "text": "Poll taxes in the United States\n\nA poll tax is a tax levied as a fixed sum on every liable individual. Although often associated with states of the former Confederacy, poll taxes were also in place in some northern and western states, including California, Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Vermont and Wisconsin. Poll taxes had been a major source of government funding among the colonies which formed the United States. Poll taxes made up from one-third to one-half of the tax revenue of colonial Massachusetts. Various privileges of citizenship, including voter registration or issuance of driving licenses and resident hunting and fishing licenses, were conditioned on payment of poll taxes to encourage collection of this tax revenue. Property taxes assumed a larger share of tax revenues as land values rose when population increases encouraged settlement of the American west. Some western states found no need for poll tax requirements; but poll taxes and payment incentives remained in eastern states, and some links to voter registration were modified following the American Civil War until court action following ratification of the 24th Amendment in 1964.\n\nPayment of a poll tax was a prerequisite to the registration for voting in a number of states until 1966. The tax emerged in some states of the United States in the late 19th century as part of the Jim Crow laws. After the right to vote was extended to all races by the enactment of the Fifteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, a number of states enacted poll tax laws as a device for restricting voting rights. The laws often included a grandfather clause, which allowed any adult male whose father or grandfather had voted in a specific year prior to the abolition of slavery to vote without paying the tax. These laws, along with unfairly implemented literacy tests and extra-legal intimidation, achieved the desired effect of disenfranchising African-American and Native American voters, as well as poor whites.\n\nProof of payment of a poll tax was a prerequisite to voter registration in Florida, Alabama, Tennessee, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Georgia (1877), North and South Carolina, Virginia (until 1882 and again from 1902 with its new constitution), and Texas (1902). The Texas poll tax \"required otherwise eligible voters to pay between $1.50 and $1.75 to register to vote – a lot of money at the time, and a big barrier to the working classes and poor.\" Georgia created a cumulative poll tax requirement in 1877: men of any race 21 to 60 years of age had to pay a sum of money for every year from the time they had turned 21, or from the time that the law took effect.\n\nThe poll tax requirements applied to whites as well as blacks, and also adversely affected poor citizens. The laws that allowed the poll tax did not specify a certain group of people. This meant that anyone, including white women, could also be discriminated against when they went to vote. One example is in Alabama where white women were discriminated against and then organized to secure their right to vote. One group of women that did this was Women's Joint Legislative Council of Alabama (WJLC). African American women also organized in groups against being denied voting rights. One African American woman sued the county with the help of the NAACP. She sued for her right to vote as she was stopped from even registering to vote. As a result of her suing the county the mailman did not deliver her mail for quite some time. Many states required payment of the tax at a time separate from the election, and then required voters to bring receipts with them to the polls. If they could not locate such receipts, they could not vote. In addition, many states surrounded registration and voting with complex record-keeping requirements. These were particularly difficult for sharecropper and tenant farmers to comply with, as they moved frequently.\n\nThe poll tax was sometimes used alone or together with a literacy qualification. In a kind of grandfather clause, North Carolina in 1900 exempted from the poll tax those men entitled to vote as of January 1, 1867. This excluded all blacks, who did not then have suffrage.\n\nIn 1937, in \"Breedlove v. Suttles,\" 302 U.S. 277 (1937), the United States Supreme Court found that a prerequisite that poll taxes be paid for registration to vote was constitutional. The case involved the Georgia poll tax of $1. Georgia abolished its poll tax in 1945. Florida repealed its poll tax in 1937.\n\nThe 24th Amendment, ratified in 1964, abolished the use of the poll tax (or any other tax) as a pre-condition for voting in federal elections, but made no mention of poll taxes in state elections.\n\nIn the 1966 case of \"Harper v. Virginia State Board of Elections,\" the Supreme Court reversed its decision in \"Breedlove v. Suttles\" to also include state elections as violating the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nThe \"Harper\" ruling was one of several that relied on the Equal Protection clause of the 14th Amendment rather than the more direct provision of the 15th Amendment. In a two-month period in the spring of 1966, Federal courts declared unconstitutional poll tax laws in the last four states that still had them, starting with Texas on 9 February. Decisions followed for Alabama (3 March) and Virginia (25 March). Mississippi's $2.00 poll tax (equal to $ in 2013) was the last to fall, declared unconstitutional on 8 April 1966, by a federal panel. Virginia attempted to partially abolish its poll tax by requiring a residence certification, but the Supreme Court rejected the arrangement in 1965 in \"Harman v. Forssenius\" 380 US 528|1965 \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6262978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6262978", "title": "Revised Statutes", "text": "Revised Statutes\n\nRevised Statutes is a term used in some common law jurisdictions for a collection of statutes that have been revised to incorporate amendments, repeals and consolidations. It is not a change to the law, but designed to make the body of statutes more accessible.\n\nStatute revisions have occurred in the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Ireland, and the United States. In federal states, statute revisions can occur at both the federal level, and the state or provincial level.\n\n"}
{"id": "5334905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5334905", "title": "Rick Falkvinge", "text": "Rick Falkvinge\n\nRick Falkvinge (born Dick Greger Augustsson on 21 January 1972) is a Swedish information technology entrepreneur and founder of the Swedish Pirate Party. He is currently a political evangelist with the party, spreading the ideas across the world.\n\nFalkvinge grew up in Ruddalen, Gothenburg, and studied Natural Sciences at Göteborgs Högre Samskola. During his high school years, he was active in \"Moderat Skolungdom\" and \"Moderata Ungdomsförbundet\", the youth wings of the Moderaterna party in Sweden. His passion for technology was visible at an early age, and he would spend time as a toddler just pressing doorbell buttons in electronics stores.\n\nHis first computer was a Commodore VIC-20, where he wasn't content just pressing its buttons, but also opened it up and took it apart, to study its inner workings. He learned how to disable the system calls, and learned all relevant memory positions. His interest for computers as a technological phenomenon was as large as his fascination for the possibility of using computers as tools. He has likened this to amateur radio enthusiasts and their interest for the technology and its applications alike.\n\nHis VIC-20 would soon be replaced by a Commodore 64, the most sold computer model ever. He started swapping files early, and continued the mixtape tradition with his friends, only using disks instead. He started attending copyparties, where people brought their computer and a box of disks, and copied files between one another: images, games, texts, programs.\n\nFalkvinge created his first company, Infoteknik (literally \"Infotechnology\"), in 1988 at the age of 16. The inefficiency in administrative business tasks irritated him, and he wanted to digitize the world.\n\nIn 1994 to 1998, he was active as an entrepreneur with five employees in software development in Gothenburg, Kalmar and Strömsund.\n\nHaving grown tired of snide remarks about his first name Dick, and above all what he calls the moralism among systems developers who would make it impossible for him to even use his real name online, he changed his first name in 2004 from Dick to Rickard, with just Rick for short. As he changed his first name, he also changed his last name from Augustsson to the current Falkvinge (literally \"Falconwing\"). He wanted a unique last name describing his character. He has always been fascinated by birds, and thinks that large raptors symbolize pride, freedom, and vision.\n\nIn the Fall of 2005, Rick Falkvinge started to consider creating a political party focused on the issues of file sharing, copyright, and patents. The dominating Swedish organization in the copyright debate at this time was the Pirate Bureau, which was not affiliated with any party. On 16 December 2005, Falkvinge registered the domain name \"piratpartiet.se\" (literally \"The Pirate Party\"), and on 1 January 2006, the party's web site was launched through a message on a Direct Connect hub, signaling the start of the petition to register a new political party in Sweden. According to the party, the site got three million hits in the first two days, and in the morning of 2 January, the newspaper Dagens Industri published a notice about the initiative, followed by a longer article in the tabloid Aftonbladet after lunch. Falkvinge took out a large bank loan, quit his job at Cypak, and started working with building the Pirate Party full-time.\n\nFollowing the raid on The Pirate Bay on 31 May 2006, Falkvinge mobilized every part of the Pirate Party, and in the protests that followed on June 3, he held his first widely translated and acclaimed speech, \"Nothing new under the Sun\".\n\nIn the week that followed the raid, Falkvinge was on the TV news daily, and Pirate Party membership tripled from 2,200 to 6,600.\n\nIn the general elections in 2006, the Pirate Party achieved 0.63%. Falkvinge was noticeably downcast when the exit polls arrived during the election night party, but promised the gathered people that this would not be the end of the fight.\n\nOne number that gave a bit of hope was that the mock-up school elections gave the Pirate Party 4.5%, showing that the party had a potential future.\n\nOn 29 December 2008, Falkvinge published a letter on his blog, stating that he was no longer able to pay his rent as the bank loan he had used to cover his work for the Pirate Party had run out, and that he had run out of additional credit. At the time, the Pirate Party did not have a strong enough economy to hire someone, and therefore, he asked the members of the party to donate money to him.\n\nHe led the Pirate Party while living off of donations and charity from supporters for 18 months, until he was hired by the European Parliament following entry.\n\nThe success in the European Elections in 2009, where the Pirate Party achieved 7.13% under his leadership, catapulted Falkvinge and the top candidate Christian Engström onto every newspaper front page in the country, as well as making the top news on CNN, headlines on BBC, Reuters and others. Media described the election night party as ecstatic as the Pirate Party became the largest party by far for voters under 30, with 25% of those votes.\n\nFalkvinge called this success a re-ignition for the civil liberties fight in Europe and the world.\n\nNot long after the European Elections, media predicted that the Pirate Party was also on its way into Swedish Parliament, as they got 3.9% support in a poll. The threshold for entry is 4.0%. This support did not materialize in the 2010 parliamentary elections.\n\nDuring the election campaign of 2009, Falkvinge announced privately on Facebook that as he was touring the country, he was looking for women to sleep with while on the campaign trail. This was picked up by tabloids and blogs and caused a minor controversy.\n\nIn the launch of the party's election manifesto in 2010, Falkvinge caused a controversy by stating that freedom of speech and freedom of the press should take precedence over the current ban on possession of drawings potentially depicting child pornography, and that the party wanted to repeal current legislation on the topic. This followed a Swedish court case where a manga researcher and translator was indicted for possession of a handful drawings as part of a very large manga collection. The Swedish Union of Journalists openly and immediately proclaimed their support for this stance, and the irrationality of a law which persecuted individuals of a crime with no victim. Despite this, the stance created internal controversy in the Pirate Party and Falkvinge initially backed away from his position, before reiterating it in 2012.\n\nOn 1 January 2011, five years after the party's foundation, Falkvinge announced that he was stepping down as party leader, and that deputy party leader Anna Troberg would step into the role. This announcement was done during a live broadcast.\n\nFalkvinge works as a political evangelist in the Pirate Party and pirate movement at large, traveling to speak about the ideas and concepts.\n\nIn May 2011, he started exploring bitcoin and its effects on society's economy and was quoted by the Swedish Public Service Television (SVT) as a reference in this context.\n\nIn February 2016, it was announced that Falkvinge had accepted a full-time role as head of privacy for Private Internet Access, a US-based personal VPN service.\n\nRick is heavily involved with Bitcoin Cash, a Hardfork of Bitcoin as of Aug 1, 2017.\n\nPeter Santesson, Ph.D. in Political Sciences, has analyzed Falkvinge's leadership style and found it unique in Swedish politics. Falkvinge is never late to admit a mistake, and openly displays his weaknesses, acting to diminish his own authority. Among other things, Santesson refers to the episode where Falkvinge said he was flat broke and asked for donations, something that no other politician has attempted and much less succeeded with. Santesson argues that this personality, where Falkvinge takes responsibility for mistakes and admits them immediately without reservation, makes Falkvinge appear even more charismatic. Santesson compares it to techniques used in pick-up artistry.\n\nIn 2013, Rick Falkvinge wrote a book called \"Swarmwise: The Tactical Manual to Changing the World\", in which he describes a new kind of organization that he built in the Swedish Pirate Party, and the role of leadership in this organization.\n\nIn 2012, \"TIME Magazine\" shortlisted Falkvinge as one of the world's most influential people, and \"The Guardian\" listed Falkvinge as one of the world's Top 20 Internet Freedom Fighters.\n\nIn 2011, The magazine \"Foreign Policy\" named Falkvinge as one of the Top 100 Global Thinkers.\n\nFalkvinge was awarded the Swedish \"Guldmusen\" award as \"IT person of the year\" 2010, citing his successes in bringing the Net and its consequences to the political table.\n\nHe has been listed as one of the 100 most influential people in Sweden by \"Fokus\" magazine.\n\nFalkvinge has given presentations on his ideas in cities \"from Aarhus to Zurich\". Notable appearances include Stanford Law School, Google, O'Reilly Open Source Convention and TheNextWeb.\n\nThe Danish documentary Good Copy Bad Copy contains an interview with Falkvinge explaining how the Pirate Party grew as a result of the raid against The Pirate Bay on 31 May 2006. At the time, The Pirate Bay had no formal connections to the party.\n\nHe also appears in the documentary Steal This Film and TPB AFK.\n\nFalkvinge lives in Sollentuna, a suburb north of Stockholm. His personal interests include whisky, cooking, and motorcycles. He spends his summers in a cabin on Björkö, an island just off Gothenburg.\n\nHe likes speeding and has called it a national sport in Sweden.\n\nHe has no children and is not married but openly polyamorous, which still precludes marriage for legal reasons as of April 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2610329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2610329", "title": "Robert P. George", "text": "Robert P. George\n\nRobert Peter George (born July 10, 1955) is an American legal scholar, political philosopher, and public intellectual who serves as the McCormick Professor of Jurisprudence and Director of the James Madison Program in American Ideals and Institutions at Princeton University. He lectures on constitutional interpretation, civil liberties, philosophy of law, and political philosophy. George, a Catholic, is considered one of the country's leading conservative intellectuals.\n\nIn addition to his professorship at Princeton, he is the Herbert W. Vaughan senior fellow of the Witherspoon Institute, a research fellow at the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture, and a Visiting Professor at Harvard Law School.\n\nGeorge was born on July 10, 1955 and is of Syrian and Italian descent. He grew up in Morgantown, West Virginia, the grandson of immigrant coal miners. He was educated at Swarthmore College (BA), Harvard Law School (JD), Harvard Divinity School (MTS), and University of Oxford (DPhil, BCL, and DCL). As a doctoral student at Oxford, he studied philosophy of law under the supervision of John Finnis and Joseph Raz, and served as a Lecturer in Jurisprudence in New College.\n\nGeorge joined the faculty of Princeton University as an instructor in 1985, and in the following year became a tenure-track assistant professor. He spent 1988–89 on sabbatical leave as a Visiting Fellow in Law at Oxford University, working on his book \"Making Men Moral: Civil Liberties and Public Morality\" (1993, Oxford University Press). George was promoted to associate professor with tenure at Princeton in 1994, and to professor in 1999, being named to Princeton's McCormick Chair of Jurisprudence, a celebrated endowed professorship previously held by Woodrow Wilson, Edward S. Corwin, Alpheus T. Mason, and Walter F. Murphy.\n\nGeorge founded Princeton's James Madison Program in American Ideals and Institutions in 2000 and continues to serve as its director. Since 2007, George has been teaching undergraduate seminars on leading thinkers in Western intellectual history with friend and colleague Cornel West, a leading left-wing public intellectual; readings have included Sophocles's \"Antigone\", Plato's \"Gorgias\", St. Augustine's \"Confessions\", Marx and Engels's \"The Communist Manifesto\", Du Bois's \"The Souls of Black Folk\", Hayek's \"The Road to Serfdom\", Gramsci's \"Prison Notebooks\", Strauss's \"Natural Right and History\", Lewis's \"The Abolition of Man,\" and King's \"Letter from Birmingham Jail\". The George-West collaboration – allowing only 18 students, many fewer than want to attend – has drawn attention on campus and in the national media. In 2017, George and West did a three-hour interview together on C-Span's \"Book Notes.\" They have also appeared together at colleges and universities around the country, arguing for civil dialogue and a broad conception of campus freedom of speech as essential to the truth-seeking mission of academic institutions. In March 2017, they jointly published the statement \"Truth-Seeking, Democracy, and Freedom of Thought and Expression,\" which has been signed by several thousand professors, students, academic administrators and others.\n\nGeorge is of counsel to the law firm of Robinson & McElwee PLLC in Charleston, West Virginia.\n\nGeorge served from 1993–1998 as a presidential appointee to the United States Commission on Civil Rights, and from 2002–2009 as a member of the President's Council on Bioethics. George was appointed to the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom by the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2012, and in the following year was elected Chairman of the Commission. He served until hitting the statutory term limit in 2016.\n\nHe is a former Judicial Fellow at the Supreme Court of the United States, receiving during his tenure there the Justice Tom C. Clark Award. He has served as the U.S. member of UNESCO's World Commission on the Ethics of Scientific Knowledge and Technology (COMEST), of which he remains a corresponding member. He is a member of the boards of the Ethics and Public Policy Center (where he is Vice-Chairman of the Board), the American Enterprise Institute, the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, the Center for Individual Rights, the Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation, and the Templeton Foundation Religion Trust. George is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.\n\nGeorge has served or serves on the editorial boards of the \"American Journal of Jurisprudence\", the \"Journal of American Political Thought\", \"National Affairs\", \"Touchstone\" and the editorial advisory board of \"First Things\".\n\nGeorge twice served as Governor of the West Virginia Democratic Youth Conference, and attended the 1976 Democratic National Convention as an alternate delegate. He moved to the right in the 1980s, largely due to his views on abortion, and left the Democratic Party as a result of what he saw as its increasingly strong commitment to legal abortion and its public funding, and his growing skepticism about the effectiveness of large scale government-run social welfare projects in Appalachia and other low income rural and urban areas. George founded the American Principles Project, which aims to create a grass-roots movement around his ideas. He is a past chairman of the National Organization for Marriage, an advocacy group opposed to same-sex marriage, and co-founder of the Renewal Forum, an organization fighting the sexual trafficking and commercial exploitation of women and children.\n\nGeorge drafted the \"\", a manifesto signed by Orthodox, Catholic and Evangelical leaders that \"promised resistance to the point of civil disobedience against any legislation that might implicate their churches or charities in abortion, embryo-destructive research or same-sex marriage.\" He has also joined with Muslim scholar Shaykh Hamza Yusuf in urging hotel chains and other businesses to refrain from offering or promoting pornography. He has worked closely with his former student Rabbi Meir Soloveichik and with Rabbi Lord Jonathan Sacks of Great Britain to combat anti-Semitism in Europe. Along with other public intellectuals, George played a key role in creating the \"theoconservative\" movement and integrating it into mainstream Republicanism. Much of George's work on religious liberty has centered on the idea that religion is a \"distinct human good,\" which he asserts allows people to \"live authentically by ordering one's life in line with one's best judgments of conscience.\"\n\nGeorge was threatened with death by pro-choice extremist Theodore Shulman, who also targeted Priests for Life director Rev. Frank Pavone, saying that they would be killed if the accused killer of Dr. George Tiller (a Wichita abortion-provider) was acquitted. For his crimes, Shulman was sentenced by Federal Judge Paul A. Crotty to 41 months' imprisonment, 3 years' supervised release, and assessed a $100 special fee.\n\nGeorge endorsed Texas Senator Ted Cruz in the 2016 Republican presidential primaries. In his own words, he \"fiercely opposed\" the candidacy of Donald Trump, saying that he was \"a person of poor character.\" In July 2017, after Trump had become president, George praised his nomination of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. However, he characterized his attempts to restrict immigration to the United States from certain countries as \"unnecessary and therefore unjust.\" He went on to say, \"One thing you have to say for President Trump is that he has been fortunate in his enemies. Although he gives them plenty to legitimately criticize him about, they always go overboard and thus discredit themselves with the very people who elected Mr. Trump and may well re-elect him.\"\n\nOn December 8, 2008, George was awarded the Presidential Citizens Medal by President George W. Bush in a ceremony in the Oval Office of the White House. His many other awards include the Honorific Medal for the Defense of Human Rights of the Republic of Poland, the Canterbury Medal of the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, the Philip Merrill Award of the American Council of Trustees and Alumni, the Irving Kristol Award of the American Enterprise Institute, the Sidney Hook Award of the National Association of Scholars, the Paul Bator Award of the Federalist Society for Law and Public Policy, and Princeton University's President's Award for Distinguished Teaching. He holds nineteen honorary degrees, including a Doctor Honoris Causa awarded by the Universitat Abat Oliba CEU University in Barcelona, Spain in 2017. Also in 2017, Baylor University launched the \"Robert P. George Initiative in Faith, Ethics, and Public Policy,\" as part of its Baylor in Washington, D.C. program.\n\nGeorge has been called the \"most influential conservative Christian thinker\" in the United States by David Kirkpatrick of the \"New York Times\". Kirkpatrick goes on to state:\n\nSupreme Court Justice and former Harvard Law School Dean Elena Kagan has praised George as \"one of the nation's most respected legal theorists,\" saying that the respect he had gained was due to \"his sheer brilliance, the analytic power of his arguments, the range of his knowledge,\" and \"a deeply principled conviction, a profound and enduring integrity.\"\n\nIn announcing his election as Chairman of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom in 2013, outgoing Chairwoman Katrina Lantos Swett, a Democrat appointed by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, praised George as \"a true human rights champion whose compassion for victims of oppression and wisdom about international religious freedom shine through all we have accomplished.\" George was described by \"The New Yorker\" in 2014 as \"a widely respected conservative legal philosopher\" who has \"played [intellectual] godfather to right-leaning students on [the Princeton] campus.\"\n\nGeorge's critics, including many Catholic scholars, have argued that he has neglected critical aspects of the Christian message, including \"the corruption of human reason through original sin, the need for forgiveness and charity and the chance for redemption,\" focusing instead on \"mechanics\" of morality, and – through his political associations and activism – turned the church \"into a tool of Republican Party.\"\n\nGeorge is a finger style guitarist and bluegrass banjo player. His guitar playing is in the style of Chet Atkins and Jerry Reed. His banjo playing mixes the styles of Earl Scruggs, Don Reno, and Bela Fleck. As a teenager, he performed with folk groups and bluegrass bands in coffee houses, rod and gun clubs, and at state and county fairs in West Virginia, Maryland, and Virginia. At Swarthmore he led \"Robby George and Friends,\" a country and bluegrass band. He has performed with folk singer Ed Trickett, country music pioneer Stan Hitchcock, and the New Jersey-based bluegrass band \"Blue Heart.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25615775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25615775", "title": "Same-sex marriage under United States tribal jurisdictions", "text": "Same-sex marriage under United States tribal jurisdictions\n\nThe Supreme Court decision in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" that legalized same-sex marriage in the states and most territories did not legalize same-sex marriage on Indian lands. In the United States, Congress (not the federal courts) has legal authority over Indian country. Thus, unless Congress passes a law regarding same-sex marriage for Indian tribes, federally recognized American Indian tribes have the legal right to form their own marriage laws. As such, the individual laws of the various United States federally recognized Native American tribes set the limits on same-sex marriage under their jurisdictions.\n\nMost, but not all, Native American jurisdictions have no special regulation for marriages between people of the same sex or gender. Many Native American belief systems include the two-spirit descriptor for gender variant individuals and accept two-spirited individuals as valid members of their tribes. Same-sex marriage is possible in at least 40 Native American tribes, beginning with the Coquille Indian Tribe (Oregon) in 2009. Marriages performed in these Native American tribes were first recognized by the Federal Government in 2013 after section 3 of the \"Defense of Marriage Act\" (DOMA) was declared unconstitutional in \"United States v. Windsor\".\n\nIn some instances, tribal law has been changed to specifically address same-sex marriage. In other cases, tribal law specifies that state law and state jurisdiction govern marriage relations for the tribal jurisdiction.\n\nUntil October 25, 2017, the Ak-Chin Law and Order Code specifically banned same-sex marriages and did not recognize those performed off the reservation.\n\nIn September 2015, a member of the Ak-Chin Indian Community filed a lawsuit in the Ak-Chin Indian Community Court, alleging violations of equal protection, the \"Indian Civil Rights Act\" and due process, after the tribe refused to recognize her same-sex marriage On October 25, 2017, the court ruled that the law banning same-sex marriage was in violation of the tribe's Constitution and the \"Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968\". The tribe's chairman announced that the Government will not appeal the ruling. The ruling only applies to the Ak-Chin Indian Community, but may set a precedent for similar future challenges by more tribes.\n\nThe Law and Order Code of the Blackfeet Nation of the Blackfeet Indian Reservation of Montana, Chapter 3 – Domestic Relations specifies that state law and state jurisdiction governs marriage relations and that neither common-law nor marriages performed under native customs are valid within the Blackfeet Reservation. On November 19, 2014, US District Court Judge Brian Morris struck down Montana's same-sex marriage ban in \"Rolando v. Fox\". In December 2007, a traditional Blackfoot marriage ceremony was held in Seeley Lake, Montana for a Blackfoot two-spirit couple.\n\nThe Central Council of the Tlingit and Haida peoples in Alaska voted in February 2015 to legalize same-sex marriage on their sovereign lands. The Council will also be responsible for any related divorces that may arise.\n\nThe Cherokee Nation has recognized same-sex marriages since December 9, 2016, overturning a ban established in 2004.\n\nOn May 13, 2004, a lesbian couple applied for a marriage license and were approved by a Cherokee Nation tribal court deputy clerk. On May 14, 2004, Judicial Appeals Tribunal Chief Justice Darrell Dowty ordered a moratorium on issuing additional same-sex marriage licenses.\n\nOn May 18, 2004, the couple were married in Tulsa, but their request to register their certificate of marriage was refused. On June 11, 2004, the Tribal Council's attorney, as a private party, filed an objection to the issuance of the application and on June 16 filed an injunction to nullify the marriage. On June 14, the Cherokee Nation Tribal Council passed a law banning same-sex marriages. The couple filed a motion for a decision in November 2004. On December 10, their motions to dismiss, quash and for summary judgment were denied by the Cherokee District Court and they appealed to the Judicial Appeals Tribunal of the Cherokee Nation (JAT) on December 17. In June 2005, the JAT set a trial date of August 2 to determine the standing of the Tribal Council attorney to file as a private individual. On August 3, 2005, the JAT ruled that no individual suffered harm from the legal recognition of same-sex marriage and the plaintiff therefore lacked standing.\n\nThe following day, 15 tribal councilors filed a petition to prevent the couple from filing their marriage certificate with the tribe. On December 22, the JAT dismissed the injunction again citing the inability of council members to demonstrate that they suffered harm as individuals from the recording of the marriage.\n\nOn January 6, 2006, the Cherokee Nation Court Administrator filed a petition stating that recording the marriage certificate would violate the tribal law defining marriage as that of a man and a woman. On March 8, the couple filed a motion to dismiss the third challenge as their marriage had occurred prior to the enactment of the law defining marriage as being only between a man and a woman. Though Oklahoma's same-sex marriage ban was overturned on January 14, 2014, in a ruling by U.S. District Judge Terence Kern, the petition before the JAT remained unanswered.\n\nOn December 9, 2016, the Attorney General of the Cherokee Nation overturned the tribe's ban on same-sex marriage. His decision took effect immediately. He had been asked to rule on the recognition of same-sex marriage by the tribe's tax commissioner.\n\nOn March 21, 2017, a Cherokee Nation Rules Committee discussed a proposal that would ask voters whether the tribe should recognize same-sex marriage. The following day, the Council voted to table the resolution indefinitely, keeping same-sex marriage legal.\n\nMarriage law of the Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes, a united tribe in Oklahoma, makes no specification of the gender of the participants. Based on that, Darren Black Bear and Jason Pickel applied for and received a marriage license on October 18, 2013. Theirs was the third such license issued by the Tribes.\n\nThe Confederated Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua and Siuslaw Indians (Coos Bay, Oregon) began recognizing same-sex marriages on August 10, 2014 by repealing part of their marriage law which called same-sex marriages invalid and prohibited. Previously, section 4-7-6 (c) of the Tribal Code banned same-sex marriage : \"No marriage shall be contracted between parties of the same gender.\" But section 4-7-13 showed a marriage from another jurisdiction could be recognized : \"A marriage contracted outside the territory of the Tribes that would be valid by the laws of the jurisdiction in which the marriage was contracted is valid within the territory of the Tribes.\".\n\nIn March 2013, it was reported that the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians from Oregon had introduced a tribal ordinance to recognize same-sex marriage. The ordinance was proposed when Oregon banned same-sex marriage. The measure was to be an \"additional option\" for tribal members who would retain the ability to marry through the tribe, the State of Oregon, or their state of residence. On May 16, 2014, the Tribal Council passed a motion in favor of allowing same-sex couples to legally marry on its reservation, but submitted the measure to tribal consultation before implementation. On May 19, 2014, U.S. District Judge Michael McShane ruled that Oregon's ban against same-sex marriage was unconstitutional. On May 15, 2015, the Tribal Council changed its laws to legalize same-sex marriages after 67% of members of the General Assembly voted in favor.\n\nThe Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation in the state of Washington voted for same-sex marriage recognition on September 5, 2013. The vote passed the Tribal Council without objection.\n\nIn October 2015, the Grand Ronde Tribal Council in Oregon passed an ordinance allowing members to marry in the Tribal Court. The ordinance specifically includes a non-discrimination clause that would allow same-sex couples to marry. The ordinance went into effect on November 18, 2015.\n\nIn 2008, the Coquille Indian Tribe legalized same-sex marriage, with the law going into effect on May 20, 2009. The law approving same-sex marriage was adopted 5-2 by the Coquille Tribal Council and extends all of the tribal benefits of marriage to same-sex couples. To marry under Coquille law, at least one of the spouses must be a member of the tribe. In the 2000 Census, 576 people defined themselves as belonging to the Coquille Nation.\n\nAlthough the Oregon voters approved an amendment to the Oregon Constitution in 2004 to prohibit same-sex marriages, the Coquille are a federally recognized sovereign nation, and thus not bound by the Oregon Constitution. On May 24, 2009, the first same-sex couple—Jeni and Kitzen Branting—married under the Coquille jurisdiction.\n\nThe first same-sex marriage at the Shoshone and Arapaho Tribal Court (which the Eastern Shoshone Tribe shares with the Northern Arapaho Tribe) on the Wind River Indian Reservation in Wyoming was registered on November 14, 2014.\n\nThe Fond du Lac Band of Lake Superior Chippewa (part of the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe) Tribal Council approved on July 16, 2014 \"Ordinance 04/10\", which amended section §301 Marriage, Domestic Partnership & Divorce to recognize as valid and binding any marriage between two persons which is formalized or solemnized in compliance with the laws of the place where it was formalized. Chapter 4 recognizes the relationship of two non-married, committed adult partners who have declared themselves as domestic partners provided that it is registered. A member of the Tribal Council explicitly stated that this amendment legalized same-sex-marriage.\n\nThe Law and Order Code of the Fort McDermitt Paiute and Shoshone Tribes, Chapter 5 – Domestic Relations and Adoptions enacted on September 13, 1988, provides in section 2 that all marriages from the day of enactment are to be governed by the laws of the states of Nevada or Oregon, depending on which state they occurred in. On May 19, 2014, a federal judge overturned a ban on same-sex marriages in Oregon, and beginning on October 9, 2014 same-sex marriages were allowed in Nevada.\n\nThe Law and Order Code of the Fort McDowell Yavapai Community of Arizona, Chapter 10 – Domestic Relations §10–11, states that all marriages since April 19, 1954, \"shall be in accordance with state laws.\" On October 17, 2014, U.S. District Court Judge John Sedwick ruled that Arizona's same-sex marriage ban was unconstitutional.\n\nThe Grand Portage Band of Chippewa (part of the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe) follows state law with regard to marriages as they \"do not have jurisdiction over domestic relations\" per the Grand Portage Judicial Code. Same-sex marriage was legalized in Minnesota on August 1, 2013 after passage of legislation on May 13, 2013.\n\nOn June 5, 2017, the Legislature of the Ho-Chunk Nation of Wisconsin approved a bill to legalize same-sex marriage, in a 13–0 vote.\n\nPreviously, the Ho-Chunk Nation Code (HCC), Title 4 – Children, Family, and Elder Welfare Code, Section 10 – Marriage Ordinance (October 19, 2004) provided at 4HCC § 10.3 that marriage is a civil contract requiring consent to create a legal status of husband and wife. 4HCC § 10.9 required that a ceremony be solemnized by an officiant, witnessed by two affiants and that the two parties involved agree to becoming husband and wife.\n\nOn June 24, 2013, the Iipay Nation of Santa Ysabel announced their recognition of same-sex marriage, becoming the first tribe in California to do so.\n\nOn November 7, 2014, the Tribal Council of the Keweenaw Bay Indian Community voted to place a referendum on the ballot for a tribal vote on December 13, 2014 to allow same-sex marriage in their community, in response to the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals decision to uphold Michigan's ban on same-sex marriage. The proposal was approved with 302 to 261 votes on December 13, 2014, and finally included into the Tribal Code after the Tribal Council approved the changes on June 6, 2015.\n\nThe Lac du Flambeau Band of Lake Superior Chippewa Tribal Code, Chapter 30 – Domestic Relations Ordinance at §30.103, provides that marriages by custom and tradition are not recognized and that legal marriages must be in accord with the laws of the states wherein the marriage is consummated or the laws of Wisconsin. Chapter 30 of the Tribal Code authorizes tribal court judges to perform marriages in accordance with the laws of Wisconsin. On October 6, 2014, the US Supreme Court declined to review a decision overturning Wisconsin's ban of same-sex marriages, paving the way for same-sex marriages to begin.\n\nThe Family Relations Code of the Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe, Title 5 Family Relations Code, Chapter 2 – Marriages, establishes that the tribe has jurisdiction over all marriages performed within its boundaries and over the marriages of all tribal members regardless of where they reside. Chapter 3 defines marriage as a civil contract between two parties who are capable of solemnizing and consenting to marriage. Chapter 2.D.2 requires that the parties declare in the presence of two witnesses, who must sign the declaration, that they take each other as spouses. On November 15, 2013, the first same-sex marriage took place among the Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe (part of the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe). The band has the most populous reservation in the state of Minnesota, which had legalized same-sex marriage at the state level earlier in the year.\n\nThe Little Traverse Bay Bands of Odawa Indians Tribal Council voted to recognize same-sex marriages on March 5, 2013. The Tribal Chairman signed into law the legislation on March 15, 2013, and a male couple was married that day. Same-sex marriages entered into by the sovereign tribe are recognized by Michigan, the state where the Little Traverse Bay Bands are based, due to the Supreme Court's ruling striking down Michigan's same-sex marriage ban.\n\nSection 13.102C of the Tribal Code states \"Marriage means the legal and voluntary union of two persons to the exclusion of all others.\n\nSince April 29, 2010, the Connecticut-based Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation's law states that \"Two persons may be joined in marriage on the Mashantucket Pequot Reservation\" without specifying gender. This was a change from the 2008 code, which specified that \"A man and a woman may be joined in marriage on the Mashantucket Pequot Reservation\".\n\nIn June 2010, the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation approved an anti-discrimination ordinance which prohibits discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity.\n\nThe Tribal Council of the Menominee Indian Tribe of Wisconsin approved a marriage law on November 3, 2016, which states under section 6, that marriage \"creates a union between two (2) persons, regardless of their sex (or gender)\".\n\nThe first same-sex marriage at the Shoshone and Arapaho Tribal Court (which the Northern Arapaho Tribe shares with the Eastern Shoshone Tribe) on the Wind River Indian Reservation in Wyoming was registered on November 14, 2014.\n\nThe Law and Order Code of the Oglala Sioux Tribe, Chapter 3 – Domestic Relations, provides at section 28 that marriage is a consensual personal relationship arising out of a civil contract, which has been solemnized. Per section 30, any tribal member of legal age or with parental consent if a minor, may obtain a marriage license from the Agency Office, or consummate marriage under authority of license by the state of South Dakota. Voidable or forbidden marriages include incestuous marriages (§31); those obtained if a party is incapable of consent, through fraud, or within prohibited degrees of consanguinity (§32); and those which occur when another spouse is still living (§33). A memorandum by the tribal attorney from January 25, 2016 confirmed, that same-sex marriages are not prohibited under the existing Tribal Code. A first same-sex marriage which was conducted by the tribe's chief judge took place soon after. A number of traditional elders voiced their objection against the attorney's viewpoint.\n\nThe Marriage Law of the Oneida Tribe of Indians of Wisconsin was revised in May 2015, replacing the phrase \"husband and wife\" with \"spouses\", explicitly recognizing same-sex marriage. The change came into effect on June 10, 2015.\n\nThe Osage Nation in Oklahoma has explicitly recognized same-sex marriages performed in other jurisdictions since April 6, 2016. On April 20, 2015, Osage Nation Congresswoman Shannon Edwards introduced a same-sex marriage bill. A referendum on whether same-sex marriages should be performed in the reservation took place on March 20, 2017, and the proposal passed, with 770 voting for same-sex marriage and 700 voting against. The law took effect immediately.\n\nPreviously, on April 12, 2012, at the 4th Session of the 2nd Congress of the Osage Nation, a bill to establish marriage, dissolution and child support procedures for the Osage jurisdiction was passed. At Chapter II §5, marriage was defined as a personal relationship between a man and a woman arising out of a civil contract. Further, at §8 entitled \"Marriage Between Persons of Same Gender Not Recognized\", the law provided that same-sex marriages performed in other jurisdictions shall not be recognized as valid by the tribe.\n\nThe Constitution of the Pascua Yaqui Tribe, Title 5- Civil Code, Chapter 2- Domestic Relations, provides that marriages which are valid at the place where contracted are recognized. Persons 18 and above, or with parental/guardian consent if a minor, shall obtain a license and be joined by an ordained clergyman, minister, or judge. The tribe is located in the state of Arizona, which legalized same-sex marriage on October 17, 2014.\n\nThe Pokagon Band of Potawatomi Indians, in southwestern Michigan and northeastern Indiana, announced on March 9, 2013, that a law recognizing same-sex marriages would enter into force on May 8, 2013. They issued their first such marriage certificate to a male couple on June 20, 2013.\n\nThe Port Gamble S'Klallam Tribe recognized the passage of Washington Referendum 74, which legalized same-sex marriage in Washington. On December 9, 2012, they offered couples the opportunity to marry at Heronswood Botanical Gardens, which is owned by the tribe, near Kingston.\n\nThe Minnesota-based Prairie Island Indian Community which forms a part of the Mdewakanton Dakota legalized same-sex marriage on 22 March 2017 by changing its Domestic Relations Code. Section 1, Chapter 3c of the Code now states that \"two persons of the same or opposite gender may marry.\" A previous version had explicitly banned same-sex marriages.\n\nOn July 9, 2014, the Puyallup Tribe of Indians in the state of Washington legalized same-sex marriage.\n\nThe Tribal Code of Ordinances of the Salt River Pima–Maricopa Indian Community of the Salt River Reservation in Arizona, Chapter 10: Domestic Relations §10–30(a), provides that all marriages since April 19, 1954 \"shall be in accordance with the state laws.\" U.S. District Court Judge John Sedwick ruled on October 17, 2014, that Arizona's same-sex marriage ban was unconstitutional.\n\nAccording to the Constitution and by-laws of the San Carlos Apache Tribe of Arizona, all marriages shall be in accordance with state laws. On October 17, 2014, Arizona's ban on same-sex marriage was declared unconstitutional.\n\nThe Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of Chippewa Indians in Michigan changed its marriage laws on July 7, 2015 by removing gender-specific language and also the need obtain marriage licenses from the state of Michigan before getting married. A spokesperson of the tribe noted that these changes were necessary to legalize same-sex marriage and to exercise tribal sovereignty.\n\nUp to 2015, the law of the Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of Chippewa Indians noted that \"requirements of the State of Michigan with respect to the qualifications entitling persons to marry within that State's borders, whether now in existence or to become effective in the future, are hereby adopted, both presently and prospectively, in terms of the sex of the parties to the proposed marriage\" (Art. 31.104). Same-sex marriage is legal in Michigan. Opposite-sex marriages were recognized by the tribe but the law didn't say whether or not same-sex marriages were recognized.\n\nOn February 2, 2016, the Stockbridge-Munsee Tribal Council in Wisconsin changed its marriage law, stating under §61.6 g that \"Marriage is a civil contract between two (2) persons, regardless of their sex\".\n\nPreviously, the Stockbridge-Munsee Community Tribal Ordinances, Chapter 61 – Marriage, provided at §61.2 a definition that marriage is a consensual civil contract which creates the legal status of husband and wife and stated §61.3 that any person age 18 and above, or 16 with consent of a parent or guardian may marry. Invalid or prohibited marriages per §61.4 are those that would be bigamous, those within prohibited degrees of consanguinity, those in which a party is incapable of understanding a marriage relationship, or those in which one of the parties was divorced within the prior 6 months.\n\nThe Suquamish Tribe of Washington legalized same-sex marriage on August 1, 2011, following a unanimous vote by the Suquamish Tribal Council. At least one member of a same-sex couple has to be an enrolled member of the tribe to be able to marry in the jurisdiction.\n\nAfter changes on May 6, 2016, Chapter 4.20.020(9) of the Tulalip Tribes of Washington's Tribal Code states that marriage is a legal union of two people, regardless of their sex. Previously, Chapter 4.20 of the Code stated at Chapter 4.20.070 that during the ceremony the parties must take each other as husband and wife and the officiant must declare that they are husband and wife.\n\nAccording to the White Mountain Apache Domestic Relations Code, enacted on September 9, 2015, chapter 1, sections 1.3, 1.5 and 1.6, marriage is a solemnized civil procedure between consenting parties, of legal age or with parental consent, in conformity with state (Arizona) or tribal law, who are free from infectious and communicable diseases and are not prohibited by clan or specified consanguinity. In a 2017 ruling, an Ak-Chin court noted that the White Mountain Apache Tribe recognizes same-sex marriage.\n\nThe Domestic Relations Code of the Yavapai-Apache Nation of Arizona of 1994, states in Chapter 3.1. that \"all marriages in the future shall be in accordance with the State laws.\" On October 17, 2014, U.S. District Court Judge John Sedwick ruled that Arizona's same-sex marriage ban was unconstitutional.\n\nThe federally recognized Native American tribes in this section have neutrally worded marriage statutes which do not appear to have been applied to same-sex couples, nor have steps been taken to officially recognize same-sex couples, but they are not precluded from recognition. In some cases, valid marriages performed in other jurisdictions are recognized. In some cases their legislation about recognition of out-of-jurisdiction marriages is neutrally worded and could leave the possibilities open to such a recognition. In parallel, the wording of their marriage conditions within jurisdiction is frequently not explicitly excluding same-sex marriages but a few elements of it contains reference to heterosexual marriage such as \"husband and wife\". In other cases, the wording may also forbid performance explicitly, but not exclude recognition. Some tribes recognize \"domestic partnerships\" of same-sex couples for limited benefits.\n\nThe Tribal Code of the Absentee-Shawnee Tribe of Indians of Oklahoma, Civil Procedure Chapter Eleven – Family Relations §1101, requires marriages to be recorded for tribal persons regardless of whether they were consummated under tribal custom or in accordance with state law. §1102 requires that marriages must conform to the custom and common law of the tribe.\n\nThe Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians operates resorts and casinos in Palm Springs and Rancho Mirage in California. Employees have access to same-sex benefits for domestic partners and as of January 2014 the tribe began offering coverage to employees in same-sex marriages.\n\nThe Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes of the Fort Peck Indian Reservation in Montana specifies in Title 10 of the Family Code, Chapter 2 – Marriages, that marriages are limited to those of specific degrees of consanguinity. In §210, tribal recognition is granted to all marriages \"duly licensed and performed under the laws of the United States, any Tribe, state, or foreign nation.\"\n\nThe Tribal Code of the Bad River Band of the Lake Superior Tribe of Chippewa Indians, Chapter 126 – Marriage at §126.01(c), provides that tribal procedures shall be concurrent with those established by the laws of Wisconsin. Per §126.04, those who may not marry are those of prohibited consanguinity, those who are currently married, those who are incapable of assent and those who have been divorced within the last 6 months. However §126.13 requires that the parties declare to take each other as husband and wife.\n\nSection 1401 of the Tribal Code for the Bay Mills Indian Community states : \"The Bay Mills Indian Community shall recognize as a valid and binding marriage any marriage between a man and a woman formalized or solemnized in compliance with the laws of the jurisdiction in which such marriage was formalized or solemnized. Section 1404.B.1. requires for the issuance of a marriage licence that \"The parties are a man and a woman (...)\".\n\nOn October 13, 2001, the Business Council of the Blue Lake Rancheria passed an ordinance which at §6C prohibits marriages contracted by same-sex parties. However, at §13 it states that marriages legally contracted outside the boundaries of the Blue Lake Rancheria are valid within the tribal jurisdiction.\n\nSection 5.1.31(1) of the Tribal code of Burns Paiute Tribe of the Burns Paiute Indian Colony of Oregon (Harney County, Oregon) states that \"all marriages performed other than as provided for in this Chapter, which are valid under the laws of the jurisdiction where and when performed, are valid within the jurisdiction of the Tribe.\" Section 5.1.34 \"Marriage Ceremony\" states that \"no particular form of marriage ceremony is required. However, the persons to be married must declare in the presence of the person performing the ceremony, that they take each other as husband and wife, and he must thereafter declare them to be husband and wife.\n\nThe Cabazon Band of Mission Indians operates the Fantasy Springs Resort Casino in Indio and offers employment benefits for domestic partners.\n\nThe Chippewa-Cree Indians of the Rocky Boy's Reservation in Montana have traditionally respected variant identities. Their Law and Order Code of 1987, Title 5 – Domestic Relations, Chapter 1 – Marriages §1.6 prohibits marriages when one party is currently married, when the specified degree of consanguinity is breached, or when the marriage does not conform with tribal custom or tradition.\n\nThe Constitution and Comprehensive Codes of Justice of the Chitimacha Tribe of Louisiana, in Title VI- Family Law, Chapter 2 – Marriage states at §201(a) that for a man and a woman to be married they must be 16 years of age, be able to give consent, or must obtain parental consent. §202 prohibits marriages within certain degrees of consanguinity and §203 prohibits those with existing spouses from marrying. However, the tribe recognizes as valid common-law marriages (§210) or duly licensed marriage (§211) which have been recognized as valid under the laws of the United States, any other tribe, state, or foreign nation.\n\nThe Colorado River Indian Tribes of the Colorado River Indian Reservation Domestic Relations Code, Article 2 – Marriage and Divorce, Chapter 1 at §2–102.B states that \"a marriage between a man and a woman licensed, solemnized, and registered as provided in this Chapter is valid.\" §2–108.A.1 lists prohibited marriages as those in which a party is in an undissolved prior marriage or is within prohibited degrees of consanguinity.\n\nIn the Comanche Nation Part 11—Courts of Indian Offenses and Law and Order Code, Subpart F—Domestic Relations, it is stated at §11.600 that both parties must consent, obtain a license, have a tribal custom marriage ceremony, and sign a registry. §11.603 prohibits marriages when one party is currently married and within proscribed degrees of consanguinity.\n\nThe minutes of a tribal council meeting which took place on 20 December 2016 stated that the \"\"... Code is silent on defining who can marry. If the Tribal Code is silent, then we rely on federal law first and then state law.\" The Codified Laws of the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes (revised April 15, 2003) specify in Title III, Chapter 1 – Domestic Relations at §3-1-101 that the Tribal Court shall have jurisdiction over all marriages of Indians residing on the Flathead Reservation and other consenting parties and that tribal judges or the Tribal Court are authorized to perform ceremonies.\n\nThe Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation, located in Umatilla County, Oregon, approved in 2007 a law allowing couples, including same-sex couples, to enter a domestic partnership. The possibility of passing same-sex marriage was discussed at the time, but the tribe decided to pass a domestic partnership law instead.\n\nThe Family Law Code of the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Reservation states:\n\nSection 331.160 \"Marriages Consummated in Other Jurisdictions\" of the Tribal Code Book of the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Reservation of Oregon states that \"for the purposes of this Chapter a marriage that is valid and legal in the jurisdiction where consummated shall be valid and legal within the jurisdiction of the Tribal Court.\" Section 331.150 \"Form of Solemnization – Witnesses\" states that \"in the solemnizing of a marriage, no particular form is required, except the parties thereto shall assent or declare in the presence of the minister, priest, or Judge solemnizing the same and in the presence of at least two attending witnesses that they each take the other to be husband and wife.\" \n\nThe Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana Judicial Codes, Title VIII – Domestic Relations provides in §3 that marriages must conform to tribal custom, in §4 that parties must consent and a ceremony must be performed by an authorized representative in front of witnesses. However, §6 states that a \"marriage which is valid under the laws of the State of Louisiana shall be recognized as valid for all purposes by the Coushatta Tribe.\"\n\nThe Crow Tribe of Montana's Uniform Marriage and Divorce Act provides at §10-1-104 that marriage is a consensual relationship between a man and a woman arising out of a civil contract. However, at §10-1-113 it states that marriages which are validly contracted under the laws of the place where they occurred are recognized as valid within the Crow Indian Reservation. It further lists as prohibitions to marriage §1.0-1-110 specific degrees of consanguinity and marriage before dissolving a prior union.\n\nThe Tribal Code of the Curyung Tribal Council, Title II – Family Law, Chapter 6 – Tribal Marriages provides in Section 1 that the tribe shall uphold the validity of any marriage which was valid under the law of the jurisdiction where it was performed. In Section 2, any party age 18, under 18 with parental/guardian consent, may marry if they are unmarried and the tribe approves.\n\nThe Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, North Carolina – Code of Ordinances, Part II, Chapter 50, family law specifies at §50–1 that the marriage between a man and a woman is recognized if a license is obtained from a register of deeds in their county of residence or the Cherokee Court; however, at §50–2 it states that all marriages will be given full faith and credit by the Eastern Cherokee which have been solemnized according to the laws of North Carolina or any other state or Indian nation.\n\nOn November 6, 2014, an amendment to Cherokee Code was submitted to the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians Tribal Council in order to prohibit same-sex marriage in their jurisdiction. On December 11, 2014, the resolution passed, but it simply means marriage ceremonies will not be performed within tribal jurisdiction. Since licenses are issued by the state and since the Eastern Cherokee recognize marriages legally performed elsewhere as valid, recognition is assured.\n\nThe Ely Shoshone Tribal Code, Title VII, chapter 122, §122.020.1 states that a male and a female person having obtained the age of 18, who are not within prescribed forbidden consanguinity, and who do not have a living spouse, may marry. §122.110.1 does not require a specific type of ceremony, but requires that the couple declare themselves to take each other as husband and wife.\n\nThe Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe Law & Order Code Volume III §6-1-3 provides that all marriages which are valid under the laws of the jurisdiction where and when they were conducted are valid within the jurisdiction of the Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe. §6-1-6 does not require a specific procedure other than that the spouses must take each other as husband and wife and be declared as same by the officiant. §6-1-3 lists specific degrees of consanguinity and bigamy as prohibitions to marriage.\n\nThe Fort Belknap Indian Community (aka Gros Ventre (Aaniiih) and Assiniboine (Nakoda) Tribes of Fort Belknap) in their Family Court Act, Part I, §2.1 vests exclusive, original jurisdiction over marriages (and other issues) to the tribal Family Court. At Part VI, §1.3.A.1 allows a license to be issued by the Tribal Court or the State of Montana and §1.3.A.3 provides that a valid marriage exists if a woman and man publicly purport to be wife and husband. Section 2 prohibits marriages wherein one party is already married, within specified degrees of consanguinity, or if the marriage is prohibited by custom of the tribes.\n\nA report in June 2013 created by the Maricopa Association of Governments listed a 2010 demographic of the Gila River Indian Community. Footnote 5, explaining the category of spouse noted \"Responses of \"same-sex spouse\" were edited during processing to \"unmarried partner\".\" Footnote 6 clarifies that even if the marriages of same-sex couples were performed in jurisdictions accepting same-sex marriage families households in the survey did not include them in the family data.\n\nSection \"10 GTBC § 501 (e)\" of the Tribal Code for the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians states that \"Marriage means the legal union of one (1) man and one (1) woman as husband and wife for life or until divorced\". Section \"10 GTBC § 505(a). \"Recognition of Marriages\"\" of the same code states that \"The Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians shall recognize as a valid and binding marriage any marriage between a man and a woman, formalized or solemnized in compliance with the laws of the jurisdiction in which such marriage was formalized or solemnized.\n\nThe Hoh Indian Tribe's Housing Management Policy which was adopted on January 15, 2015 defines marriage as \"a marriage acknowledged in any state or tribal jurisdiction, same-sex and common-law marriages.\" The tribe's Code of Conduct, Core Values and Ethical Standards at §18 prohibits harassment or discrimination on the basis of an individual's sex, marital status or sexual orientation, among other listed items.\n\nThe Domestic Code of the Hoopa Valley Tribe in §14A.2.10 states that two consenting persons over the age of 18 may marry if they have lived within reservation boundaries for 90 days. In §14A.2.20, the only prohibited marital unions are specific degrees of consanguinity and a current living spouse. However, §14A.2.40 requires the persons to be married to declare taking each other as husband and wife in the presence of the celebrant and at least two witnesses.\n\nAccording to the Hopi Parental Responsibility Ordinance, §3.M \"Marriage\" is an institution according to any practice, including custom and tradition, recognized under Hopi law.\n\nThe Labor Code of the Tribal Code for the Jamestown S'Klallam Tribe under §3.06.05.D.9 provides that the Tribal Family Medical Leave can be extended to care for domestic partners in the same manner as spouses, as long as the employee has registered their domestic partnership and the name of their domestic partner with the Human Resources Director.\n\nThe Children and Family Code of the Karuk Tribe defines marriage in under Section 3 A as \"a personal relationship between two (2) persons arising out of a civil contract to which the consent of the parties is essential\", only marriages between persons who are already married or closely related are considered illegal under Section 3 B.\n\nThe \"Tribal Employment Rights Ordinance and Workforce Protection Act\" (adopted April 8, 2013) of the Karuk Tribe provides at §1.3.ee that spouse is defined as a party, widow, or widower to a marriage, other than a common law union, to a Tribal Member recognized by any jurisdiction. §4.1 bans discrimination in employment for a variety of reasons, including sexual orientation and §4.9.a.5a bars discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in relation to employment, labor or licensing.\n\nSection 19.5 (2) of the Domestic Relationships Code states: \"All marriages performed other than as provided for in this Chapter, which are valid under the laws of the jurisdiction where and when performed, are valid within the jurisdiction of the KTTT.\"\n\nThe tribe does not allow same-sex marriages to be performed in its jurisdictions. Section 19.2 (6) states: \"Marriage shall mean a consent relationship between a man and a woman that becomes a civil contract if entered into by two people capable of making the contract. Consent alone does not constitute a marriage. A conventional marriage relies upon the issuance of a license and the issuance of a marriage certificate as authorized by this Chapter. A common-law marriage has no documentary requirements.\"\n\nThe Lummi Nation Code of Laws, Title 11 – Domestic Relations Code (Amended April 7, 2008) provides at §11.01.010 that persons who may marry are of the opposite sex. Prohibited marriages per §11.01.020 are those that would be bigamous, involve prohibited degrees of consanguinity, or when either party is mentally incompetent. Licenses may be issued per §11.01.030 by the Lummi Tribal Court or from the county auditor of any county in the State of Washington. On March 3, 2004, a same-sex marriage between a member of the Lummi Nation occurred in Oregon.\n\nThe federally recognized Minnesota Chippewa Tribe (also known as aka Anishinaabe, Chippewa and Ojibwe) is composed of six component reservations with their own tribal codes. See individual bands for discussion. The Bois Forte Band of Chippewa at Nett Lake; the Fond du Lac Band of Lake Superior Chippewa; the Grand Portage Band of Chippewa; the Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe; the Mille Lacs Band of Ojibwe; the White Earth Nation\n\nThe Domestic Relations Code of the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians at §9‐1‐2 recognizes all marriages which have been legally consummated in another jurisdiction. §9‐1‐4 defines marriage as a personal consensual relationship arising out of a civil contract. Prohibited marriages are those involving incest (§9‐1‐5) or bigamy (§9‐1‐6).\n\nThe Mohegan Sun, a casino located in Uncasville in Connecticut and operated by the Mohegan Indian Tribe has offered domestic partners and dependents of full and part-time employees benefits since March 2001. Since Connecticut's recognition of same-sex marriage November 2008, these benefits have been extended to same-sex married partners.\n\nThe Morongo Band of Mission Indians, which runs a tribal casino and hotel in Cabazon in California provides to all employees and their legal spouses, whether same-sex or opposite-sex, health, retirement and other benefits.\n\nThe Tribal Code of the Nez Perce §4-5-1(o) defines marriage as a civil status of a man and a woman united in law as husband and wife. Further, at §4-5-5(c) the parties must declare, in the presence of the celebrant and at least two witnesses that they take each other as husband and wife. However, the code states that as of a September 12, 2006 amendment, §4-5-2.b that marriages may be within or outside of the Nez Perce Reservation and at §4-5-5.a.1 that ceremonies may be performed by authorized clergy.\n\nThe Tribal Code of the Nisqually Indian Tribe, Title 11 – Domestic Relations, at §11.01.01.b provides that the marriage ceremony chosen by the persons who are marrying may be conducted in any reasonable manner, provided they verbally agree to be husband and wife.\n\nThe Northern Cheyenne Uniform Marriage and Divorce Act at §8-1-5 defines marriage as a personal, consensual relationship between a man and a woman arising out of a civil contract and requires at §8-1-10.D that the parties take each other as husband and wife. However §8-1-10.A valid marriages may be solemnized by a Judge of the Northern Cheyenne Court, a public official authorized to perform marriages, a Justice of the Peace, or in accordance with any religious denomination, Reservation government or native group. Prohibited marriages defined at §8-1-15 include those that would result in bigamy or those of specified degrees of consanguinity.\n\nThe Omaha Tribal Code (2013), Title 19 – Domestic Relations indicates at §19-1-2.a that all marriages validly performed in the jurisdiction where and when performed are valid. §19-1-5 provides that during a ceremony of choice, the parties must take each other as husband and wife and the person performing the ceremony must thereafter declare them to be husband and wife. Void and voidable marriages per section §19-1-6 include those within prohibited degrees of consanguinity, those in which a party had a living spouse and those in which a party is incapable of having sexual relations or was forced or coerced.\n\nThe Oneida Nation of New York's Marriage Code (amended 2004) provides at §103 that a man and a woman may marry if they meet specified requirements. §104 states that those who cannot marry are minors, those with a living spouse, and those within prohibited consanguinity. §107 does not require a specific ceremony but the parties must declare in the presence of the officiant that they take each other as husband and wife. The Oneida Nation recognizes as valid per §111 all valid marriages celebrated outside their territorial jurisdiction.\n\nThe Law and Order Code of the Pawnee Nation of Oklahoma, Title III – Civil Procedure, Chapter Eleven – Family Relations §1101 requires marriages to be recorded for tribal persons regardless of whether they were consummated under tribal custom or in accordance with state law. §1102 requires that marriages must conform to the custom and common law of the Tribe.\n\nDuring the debates in 2009 for passage of Maine's same-sex marriage legislation, Representative Wayne Mitchell of the Penobscot Nation, who was unable to vote as a tribal representative, urged House members to pass the bill.\n\nThe federally recognized Pit River Tribe contains the bands XL Ranch, Big Bend, Likely, Lookout, Montgomery Creek and Roaring Creek Rancherias. According to the Statutes of the Pit River Tribe of California Code, Title 8 – Family/Children's Code, Chapter 3. Marriage, at §202 marriage of a man and a woman requires they are of legal age, or have consent of their parents/guardians, and be capable of consent. §203 describes void marriages as those that would result in bigamy or are between prohibited degrees of consanguinity. §402 does not specify a type of ceremony other than that in the presence of the Judge performing the ceremony, the fianceés must declare that they receive each other as husband and wife. The Pit River Tribal Court shall recognize as valid per §501 all marriages duly licensed and performed under the laws of the United States, any tribe, state, or foreign nation.\n\nThe Poarch Band of Creek Indians Tribal Domestic Code §15-1-4 states that licenses may be issued to tribal members and §15-1-6 requires that parties be of legal age. §15-1-7 describes void marriages as those wherein one party is already married or within prohibited degrees of consanguinity and §15-1-8 states that marriages may be voided if any of the parties were unable to or incapable of consent, if consent was obtained through fraud or force, or if the marriage cannot be consummated.\n\nThe Occupational Injury Ordinance of the Ponca Tribe of Nebraska §7-1-4 defines under provision 13 that a domestic partner is \"of the same sex or opposite sex.\" To qualify for limited tribal benefits, a domestic partnership affidavit must be on file with the Tribe. The Law and Order Code, Title IV – Domestic Relations §4-1-4 provides that persons may be married who are 18 (or at 16 with parental consent), when at least one of them is a resident tribal member. However, §4-1-6 requires that the parties declare themselves to be husband and wife and that the official pronounce them to be husband and wife. §4-1-7 describes void marriages as those wherein one party is already married or within prohibited degrees of consanguinity and §4-1-8 states that marriages may be voided if any of the parties were unable to or incapable of consent or if consent was obtained through fraud or force.\n\nAccording to the Law and Order Code of the Prairie Band Potawatomi Nation, Title 7 – Family Relations, Chapter 1 at §7-1-1 states that marriages, whether consummated in accordance with the State law or in accordance with Tribal law or custom may be recorded by the tribe and at §7-1-2 that the Tribal Court is the sole authority to determine marital status.\n\nThe San Ildefonso Pueblo Code, Title X – Domestic Relations, Chapter 23 – Marriage and Divorce, provides at §23.1 that all marriages consummated according to State Law or Tribal custom or tradition are valid. §23.4.1 requires licenses be issues to an unmarried male and unmarried female of 18 years or older, or parental permission be obtained. Prohibited marriages per §23.6 are those which would be bigamous, which are within described degrees of consanguinity, and those which are against tribal custom.\n\nThe Rincon Band of Luiseño Indians in California started an ad campaign in November 2008 offering same-sex wedding packages in the nation-owned casino.\n\nThe Law & Order Code of the Rosebud Sioux Tribe, Title 2 – Domestic Relations, Chapter 4 – Marriage of Tribal Members provides that the tribe assumes jurisdiction on marriage between tribal members, that the tribe and tribal courts are not impeded from recognizing marriages validly entered into in other jurisdictions, and follow tribal custom and tradition \"without requirements of oath, affirmation or ceremony or involvement of religious or civil authority.\"\n\nThe Sac and Fox Nation of Oklahoma Code Of Laws, Title 13 – Family, Chapter 1 – Marriage & Divorce requires at §1–01 that marriages consummated in\naccordance with the State law or in accordance with Tribal law, which involve a native person, must be recorded with the Clerk of the Tribal\nDistrict Court.\n\nAccording to the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribal Marriage Act of 1995, all marriages that were valid in the place where contracted are recognized by the tribe. Licenses from the tribe are issued to legal adults (or minors with parental consent), and a person may be joined by qualified individuals.\n\nThe Tribal Code of the Santee Sioux Nation, Title III – Domestic Relations, Chapter 3 – Marriages provides at §3.2.A that a man and a woman can obtain a license on the Santee Sioux Nation Reservation as long as one party is a tribal member, the marriage is performed within the reservation, both parties are at least 18 years old, and all licensing requirements are met. §5 states that the tribe recognizes as valid all marriages performed outside the boundaries of the reservation as long as the marriage was legal in the jurisdiction where celebrated.\n\nThe Sauk-Suiattle Indian Tribe Family Code §1.2.010 establishes that actions arising under the customs and traditions of the Sauk-Suiattle Indian Tribe affecting family and child welfare are within the jurisdiction of the Sauk-Suiattle Family Court. No particular marriage guidelines are stated; however, §3.2.010 defines \"spouse\" to include common law spouses, which for purposes of this code are \"parties to a marriage recognized under tribal custom or parties to a relationship wherein the couple reside together and intend to reside together as a family.\"\n\nThe Workers' Compensation Ordinance for Tribal Employees of the Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians at §7.11 provides that a \"spouse\" can be a member of the same sex if the members have cohabited for one year as if they were married prior to any occurrence of injury and are registered at the time of any injury with the State of California Secretary of States' Domestic Partners Registry.\n\nThe Code of Laws of the Shoalwater Bay Indian Tribe Title 20-Family (Modified November 20, 2013) has no provisions for performing marriage ceremonies. At §20.10.060 it provides that a marriage may be invalidated by the Court if it finds that it was contracted by minor party(ies), bigamous, capacity to consent was lacking, prohibited consanguinity existed, or the physical relationship associated with marriage which the parties did not agree to at or prior to the time of entering into the marriage has been lost.\n\nThe Law and Order Code of the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes, Chapter 7 – Domestic Relations, at §2.2 that any unmarried male and any unmarried female of the age of 18 years or older, or with parental consent may consent and consummate a marriage. Voidable marriages involve (§2.4) physical incapacity or if consent was obtained by force or fraud, (§2.5 and §2.6) unions breaching prohibited degrees of consanguinity, and (§2.7) marriages that would result in polygamy. §2.12 requires that the parties declare in the presence of the officiant that they take each other as husband and wife. However, §2.2 confirms that all marriages contracted outside of the Fort Hall Indian Reservation, which are valid under the law of the state or Country in which they were contracted, are valid in the jurisdiction of the tribe.\n\nThe Sisseton Wahpeton Oyate Code of Law, Chapter 34 – Domestic Relations (approved February 3, 1982) at §34.4.01 defines marriage as a personal consensual relationship arising out of a civil contract which has been solemnized. §34.6.01 states that any member of eligible age of the Sisseton Wahpeton Sioux tribe or any other Indian Tribe may obtain a marriage license. Voidable marriages according to §34.7.01 include those in which there is incapacity to consent or those in which consent was obtained by force or fraud and defines illegal marriages at §34.8.01 as those which would result in bigamy.\n\nThe Smith River Rancheria Domestic Relations Chapter provides at §5-1-32 that persons seeking to be married must be of the opposite gender and requires at §5-1-34 the persons to be married must declare in the presence of the person performing the ceremony, that they take each other as husband and wife, and he must thereafter declare them to be husband and wife. However, at §5-1-31 is a provision that the tribe accepts as valid all marriages, including common law and customary marriages, which were lawfully established in the jurisdiction where and when they were contracted.\n\nIn the Funeral Assistance Code of the Snoqualmie Indian Tribe is a provision defining domestic partners as two adults of the same or opposite sex.\n\nThe Spirit Lake Tribe (Formerly known as the Devil's Lake Sioux or Mni Wakan Oyate Tribe) Law and Order Code, Title 9 – Domestic Relations, as amended by \"Resolution A05-04-159\" adopted on July 28, 2004, states at §9-1-101 that marriages consummated by tribal custom are valid and legal. §9-1-105 requires that the parties must declare in the presence of the officiant, that they take each other as husband and wife, and must be declared by the officiant to be husband and wife. Void and voidable marriages per §9-1-106 are those within prohibited degrees of consanguinity and those contracted when a party has a currently living spouse.\n\nThe Title 8 – Probate Code of the Squaxin Island Tribal Code at §8.01.050 defines spouse as \"individuals married to, or registered as a domestic partnership with, the decedent and common law spouses, the latter of which means parties to a marriage that is recognized under Tribal custom or parties to a relationship wherein the couple reside together and intend to reside together as a family.\" Within the tribal Legal Department Policies and Procedures, Eligibility, Admission and Occupancy Policy, Chapter II Eligibility for Housing, Part A. defines marriage as an acknowledged marriage in any state or tribal jurisdiction, same-sex, and common law marriages.\n\nThe Law and Order Code of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe Title V – Family Code provides per §5–101 that a man and a woman can marry provided they are at least 16 years old, with consent of parents or guardians, and freely consent. §5–102 prohibits marriages within specified degrees of consanguinity and §5–103 prohibits bigamous marriage. §5–109 states that any marriage validly contracted in the United States, any tribe, state, or foreign nation shall be \"for all purposes\" recognized as valid by the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe.\n\nThe Tribal Code of the Swinomish Indian Tribal Community, Title VII – Domestic Relations, Chapter 2 – Marriages, provides at §7–02.010.A that marriage is a consensual personal relationship between two persons arising out of a civil contract. §7-02.020 prohibits marriage if one of the parties is currently married and those within specified consanguinity degree. No particular type of ceremony is required but §7-02.040 stipulates that the parties must take each other to be husband and wife in the presence of a celebrant and two witnesses. §7-02.070.A allows that all marriages which were legally valid under the laws of the jurisdiction where and when contracted are valid within the tribal jurisdiction.\n\nTitle 9, Chapter 1 of the Tohono O'odham Nation (previously known as Papago Law and Order Code Chapter 3, \"Domestic Relations\") provides that duly licensed applicants over the age of 21, if male, and 18, if female (or with parental consent if a minor), can be married by authorized officiants. Prohibited marriages per section 7 are limited to those within listed degrees of consanguinity.\n\nThe Tribal Code of the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa, Title 9 – Domestic Relations at §9.0701 defines marriage as a contract between a man and woman which has been licensed, solemnized, and registered. Prohibited marriages per §9.0707 are those that would result in bigamy or those wherein the parties are within prohibited degrees of consanguinity. However, per §9.0710 Turtle Mountain recognizes as valid marriages contracted outside its jurisdiction that were valid at the time of the contract or subsequently validated by the laws of the place they were contracted or by the domicile of the parties.\n\nTitle V of the Law and Order Code of the Ute Indian Tribe of the Uintah and Ouray Reservation §5-1-3 provides that persons 14 and above with parental consent, of whom one of the parties is a tribal member, who are free of venereal disease may marry. §5-1-6 defines void and voidable marriages as those obtained by force or fraud, when a party was already legally married or when a prohibited degree of consanguinity existed. However, §5-1-5 requires the parties to declare that they are husband and wife in the presence of an official.\n\nThe Family Relations Code of the White Earth Nation (part of the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe) defines only marriages which are voidable. Those include per §3.1.a bigamous marriages, those entered into by minors, and those prohibited by degrees of consanguinity. §3.2 a marriage could be declared voidable if the party lacked capacity to consent, consummate the marriage, or was under age at the time it was entered into.\n\nThe Winnebago Tribe of Nebraska Tribal Code, Title Two – Civil Procedure provides that marriages be recorded and in section 2-1202 that tribal members must conform with the customs and common law of the Tribe.\n\nTitle VII Domestic Relations Code of the Yankton Sioux Tribal Code provides in §7-1-3 provides that persons 14 and above with parental consent, of whom one of the parties is a tribal member, who are free of venereal disease may marry. §7-1-5 requires that they take each other as husband and wife and are declared to be husband and wife by the celebrant. §7-1-6 lists voidable marriages as those in which one party was already married or within prohibited degrees of consanguinity.\n\nThe Law and Order Code of the Yomba Shoshone Tribe, Chapter 8 – Domestic Relations, holds at §A2 that for a marriage to be valid both parties must consent and §A3 states that any party 16 and older with consent, or any party 18 or above, who does not lack mental capacity or impairment due to substances may marry. §A5e requires that a certificate containing a statement that the parties consent to the establishment of the relationship of husband and wife must be signed by the parties, the officiant and two witnesses. §A7 confirms that marriages entered into outside the tribal jurisdiction will be considered valid by the tribe, if they were valid where obtained. §B2 provides that marriages entered into under tribal custom are valid.\n\nThe Tribal Code of the Yurok Tribe defines marriage as the union of two individuals by any ceremony or practice recognized under Yurok law, section 3.1 states that \"typically any two persons may marry\". Under prohibited unions in section 3.2 the only impediments are a living spouse or a relative within specific degrees of consanguinity.\n\nSection 6-101.6.A of the laws of the Chickasaw Nation asserts that \"marriage means a personal relation arising out of a civil contract between members of the opposite sex to which the consent of parties legally competent of contracting and of entering into it is necessary, and the Marriage relation shall be entered into, maintained or \"abrogated as provided by law\". Section 6-101.9 of the same asserts that \"a marriage between persons of the same gender performed in any jurisdiction shall not be recognized as valid and binding in the Chickasaw Nation as of the date of the marriage\".\n\nSame-sex marriages are not recognized. The \"Choctaw Nation Marriage Act\" states that \"a marriage between persons of the same gender performed in another tribe, a state, or in any other forum shall not be recognized as valid and binding in the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma\"\n\nThe Kalispel Indian Community Law and Order Code (revised October 29, 2014), Chapter 8, Domestic Relations at §8–1.03.3 defines marriage as a personal relationship between two persons of the opposite sex, at §8–2.01 states that licenses may only be issued if the persons are of the opposite sex, and at §8–2.04 provides that while no particular ceremony must be followed, the parties must state that they take each other as \"husband and wife\" and the officiant must declare that they are \"husband and wife.\"\n\nThe Marriage and Divorce Ordinance (Revised on February 26, 2011) of the Kickapoo Tribe of Oklahoma at §A.2 specifies marriage must be between parties of the opposite sex, §A.3 states that a person can only be married to one person of the opposite sex, and at §A.12 prohibits the tribal court from issuing a license or conducting a marriage between the same-sex.\n\nAccording to the Annotated Code of the Muscogee (Creek) Nation same-gender marriages are neither performed or recognized by the tribe since September 7, 2001.\n\nSame-sex marriage is not valid under Navajo law. It was explicitly prohibited in a nation code amendment from April 22, 2005, which was vetoed by Navajo President Joe Shirley, Jr. That veto was overridden by the Navajo Nation Council.\n\nTribal Code, Title 6 – Family Relations of the Sac & Fox Tribe of the Mississippi in Iowa specifies at §6–1203.c that same-gender marriages are prohibited and that only opposite-gender couples may marry.\n\nThe Code of Laws of the Seminole Nation of Oklahoma Title 13A, Chapter 2 (revised July 28, 2012) specifies at §104-f that persons of the same gender will not be allowed to marry or divorce and further clarifies under 110-4 that marriages which are invalid on one of the grounds set forth in Section 104 are subject to being voided or annulled by the Tribal District Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "2026258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2026258", "title": "Serjeant-at-law", "text": "Serjeant-at-law\n\nA Serjeant-at-Law (SL), commonly known simply as a Serjeant, was a member of an order of barristers at the English bar. The position of Serjeant-at-Law (\"servientes ad legem\"), or Sergeant-Counter, was centuries old; there are writs dating to 1300 which identify them as descended from figures in France before the Norman Conquest. The Serjeants were the oldest formally created order in England, having been brought into existence as a body by Henry II. The order rose during the 16th century as a small, elite group of lawyers who took much of the work in the central common law courts. With the creation of Queen's Counsel (or \"Queen's Counsel Extraordinary\") during the reign of Elizabeth I, the order gradually began to decline, with each monarch opting to create more King's or Queen's Counsel. The Serjeants' exclusive jurisdictions were ended during the 19th century and, with the Judicature Act 1873 coming into force in 1875, it was felt that there was no need to have such figures, and no more were created. The last Irish Serjeant-at-Law was Serjeant Sullivan (d. 1959). The last English Serjeant-at-Law was Lord Lindley (d. 1921).\n\nThe Serjeants had for many centuries exclusive jurisdiction over the Court of Common Pleas, being the only lawyers allowed to argue a case there. At the same time they had rights of audience in the other central common law courts (the Court of King's Bench and Exchequer of Pleas) and precedence over all other lawyers. Only Serjeants-at-Law could become judges of these courts right up into the 19th century, and socially the Serjeants ranked above Knights Bachelor and Companions of the Bath. Within the Serjeants-at-Law were more distinct orders; the King's Serjeants, particularly favoured Serjeants-at-Law, and within that the King's Premier Serjeant, the Monarch's most favoured Serjeant, and the King's Ancient Serjeant, the oldest. Serjeants (except King's Serjeants) were created by Writ of Summons under the Great Seal of the Realm and wore a special and distinctive dress, the chief feature of which was the coif, a white lawn or silk skullcap, afterwards represented by a round piece of white lace at the top of the wig.\n\nThe history of Serjeants-at-Law goes back to within a century of the Norman Conquest; Alexander Pulling argues that Serjeants-at-Law existed \"before any large portion of our law was formed\", and Edward Warren agrees, supporting him with a Norman writ from approximately 1300 which identifies Serjeants-at-Law as directly descending from Norman \"conteurs\"; indeed, they were sometimes known as Serjeant-Conteurs. The members of the Order initially used St Paul's Cathedral as their meeting place, standing near the \"parvis\" where they would give counsel to those who sought advice. Geoffrey Chaucer makes reference to the Serjeants in the \"Canterbury Tales\", General Prologue, writing:\nA serjeant of the law, ware and wise,<br>\nThat often hadde ben at the parvis,<br>\nTher was also, full rich of excellence.<br>\nDiscreet he was and of great reverence,<br>\nHe sened swiche; his wordes were so wise,<br>\nJustice he was ful often in assise,<br>\nBy patent, and by pleine commissiun;<br>\nFor his science, and for his high renoun,<br>\nOf fees and robes had he many on.\n\nThe Order certainly existed during the reign of Henry II from 1154–1189, who created a dozen Serjeants and thus moved the order's existence \"out of the realm of conjecture\" and into recorded fact. As such it is the oldest royally created order; the next is the Order of the Garter, created in 1330. Serjeants at Law existed in Ireland from at least 1302, and were appointed by letters patent in a similar way to English Serjeants. Henry de Bracton claimed that, for the trial of Hubert de Burgh in 1239 the king was assisted by \"all the serjeants of the bench\", although it is not known who they were. By the 1270s there were approximately 20 recorded Serjeants; by 1290, 36. This period also saw the first regulation of Serjeants, with a statutory power from 1275 to suspend from practise any Serjeant who misbehaved (enacted as chapter 29 of the Statute of Westminster 1275). The exclusive jurisdiction Serjeants-at-Law held over the Court of Common Pleas slowly came about during the 1320s, squeezing the size of the bar until only a consistent group reappeared. From this period, Serjeants also began to be called in regular groups, rather than individually on whatever date was felt appropriate.\n\nDuring the 16th century the Serjeants-at-Law were a small, though highly respected and powerful, elite. There were never more than ten alive, and on several occasions the number dwindled to one; William Blendlowes bragged that he had been \"the only Serjeant-at-Law in England\" in 1559. Over these 100 years, only 89 Serjeants were created. At the time they were the only clearly distinguishable branch of the legal profession, and it is thought that their work may have actually created barristers as a separate group; although Serjeants were the only lawyers who normally argued in court, they occasionally allowed other lawyers to help them in special cases. These lawyers became known as outer or \"utter\" barristers (because they were confined to the outer bar of the court); if they were allowed to act they had \"passed the bar\" towards becoming a Serjeant-at-Law.\n\nDespite holding a monopoly on cases in the Court of Common Pleas, Serjeants also took most of the business in the Court of King's Bench. Although required to make the Common Pleas their principal place of work, there is evidence of Serjeants who did not; one, Robert Mennell, worked entirely in the North of England after his creation in 1547 and was not known in Westminster, where the Common Pleas was located. This was also a time of great judicial success for the Serjeants; since only Serjeants could be appointed to the common law courts, many also sat in the Exchequer of Pleas, a court of equity. This period was not a time of success for the profession overall, however, despite the brisk business being done. The rise of central courts other than the Common Pleas allowed other lawyers to gain advocacy experience and work, drawing it away from the Serjeants, and at the same time the few Serjeants could not handle all the business in the Common Pleas, allowing the rise of barristers as dedicated advocates.\n\nThe decline of the Serjeants-at-Law started in 1596, when Francis Bacon persuaded Elizabeth I to appoint him \"Queen's Counsel Extraordinary\" (QC), a new creation which gave him precedence over the Serjeants. This was not a formal creation, in that he was not granted a patent of appointment, but in 1604 James I saw fit to finally award this. The creation of Queen's (or King's) Counsel was initially small; James I created at least one other, and Charles I four. Following the English Restoration this increased, with a few appointed each year. The largest change came about with William IV, who appointed an average of nine a year, and following him approximately 12 were created a year, with an average of 245 at any one time.\n\nEvery new Queen's Counsel created reduced the Serjeants in importance, since even the most junior QC took precedence over the most senior Serjeant. Although appointments were still made to the Serjeants-at-Law, the King's Serjeant and the King's Ancient Serjeant, and several Serjeants were granted patents of precedence which gave them superiority over QCs, the Victorian era saw a decline in appointments. The rule that all common law judges must be Serjeants was circumvented: anyone chosen to be a judge would be appointed a Serjeant, and immediately thereafter a judge. In 1834 Lord Brougham issued a mandate which opened up pleading in the Court of Common Pleas to every barrister, Serjeant or not, and this was followed for six years until the Serjeants successfully petitioned the Queen to overturn it as invalid.\n\nThe Serjeants only enjoyed their returned status for another six years, however, before Parliament intervened. The Practitioners in Common Pleas Act 1846, from 18 August 1846, allowed all barristers to practice in the Court of Common Pleas. The next and final blow was the Judicature Act 1873, which came into force on 1 November 1875. Section 8 provided that common law judges need no longer be appointed from the Serjeants-at-Law, removing the need to appoint judicial Serjeants. With this Act and the rise of the Queen's Counsel, there was no longer any need to appoint Serjeants, and the practice ended.\n\nThe equivalent Irish rank of Serjeant-at-law survived until 1919. Alexander Sullivan, the last Irish serjeant, spent the second half of his career at the English Bar, and as a matter of courtesy was always addressed as Serjeant.\n\nSerjeant's Inn was an Inn of Court restricted to Serjeants-at-Law. It operated from three locations, one in Holborn, known as Scroope's Inn, which was abandoned by 1498 for the one in Fleet Street, which was pulled down during the 18th century, and one on Chancery Lane, pulled down in 1877. The Inn was a voluntary association, and although most Serjeants joined upon being appointed they were not required to. There were rarely more than 40 Serjeants, even including members of the judiciary, and the Inns were noticeably smaller than the Inns of Court. Unlike the Inns of Court, Serjeant's Inn was a private establishment similar to a gentlemen's club.\n\nThe Inn on Fleet Street existed from at least 1443, when it was rented from the Dean of York. By the 16th century it had become the main Inn, before being burnt down during the Great Fire of London. It was rebuilt by 1670, but the end finally came in 1733. The Fleet Street Inn had fallen into a \"ruinous state\", and the Serjeants had been unable to obtain a renewal of their lease. They abandoned the property, and it returned to the Dean.\n\nThe property on Chancery Lane consisted of a Hall, dining room, a library, kitchens and offices for the Serjeants-at-Law. This Inn was originally known as \"Skarle's Inn\" from about 1390, named after John Scarle, who became Master of the Rolls in 1394. By 1404 it was known as \"Farringdon's Inn\", but although the Serjeants were in full possession by 1416 it was not until 1484 that the property became known as Serjeant's Inn. Newly promoted Serjeants had to pay £350 in the 19th century, while those promoted solely to take up judicial office had to pay £500. The Hall was a large room hung with portraits of various famous judges and Serjeants-at-Law, with three windows on one side each containing the coat of arms of a distinguished judge. Around the room were the coats of arms of various Serjeants, which were given to their descendants when the Inn was finally sold. When the Fleet Street Inn was abandoned, this location became the sole residence of the Serjeants. With the demise of the order after the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1873, there was no way to support the Inn, and it was sold in 1877 for £57,100. The remaining Serjeants were accepted into their former Inns of Court, where judicial Serjeants were made Benchers and normal Serjeants barristers.\n\nThe process of being called to the order of Serjeants-at-Law stayed fairly constant. The traditional method was that the Serjeants would discuss among themselves prospective candidates, and then make recommendations to the Chief Justice of the Common Pleas. He would pass these names on to the Lord Chancellor, who would appoint the new Serjeants. This was intended to provide a way to select possible judges in a period where political favouritism was rampant – since only Serjeants could become judges, making sure that Serjeants were not political appointees was seen to provide for a neutral judiciary. Serjeants were traditionally appointed by a writ directly from the King. The writ was issued under the Great Seal of the Realm and required \"the elected and qualified apprentices of the law to take the state and degree of a Serjeant-at-Law\". The newly created Serjeants would then assemble in one of the Inns of Court, where they would hear a speech from the Lord Chancellor or Lord Chief Justice and be given a purse of gold. The Coif was then placed on the Serjeant's head. The Serjeants were required to swear an oath, which was that they would:\nserve the King's people as one of the Serjeants-at-law, and you shall truly counsel them that you be retained with after your cunning; and you shall not defer or delay their causes willingly, for covetness of money, or other thing that may turn you to profit; and you shall give due attendance accordingly. So help you God.\n\nThe new Serjeants would give a feast to celebrate, and gave out rings to their close friends and family to mark the occasion. The King, the Lord Chancellor and other figures also received rings. The major courts would be suspended for the day, and the other Serjeants, judges, leaders of the Inns of Court and occasionally the King would attend. Serjeant's Inn and the Inns of Court were not big enough for such an occasion, and Ely Place or Lambeth Palace would instead be used. The feasts gradually declined in importance, and by the 17th century they were small enough to be held in the Inns. The last recorded feast was in 1736 in Middle Temple, when fourteen new Serjeants were raised to the Coif.\n\nThe traditional clothing of a Serjeant-at-Law consisted of a coif, a robe and a furred cloak. The robe and cloak were later adapted into the robe worn by judges. The cut and colour of this robe varied – records from the King's Privy Wardrobe show judges being instructed to wear robes of scarlet, green, purple and miniver, and Serjeants being ordered to wear the same. In 1555 new Serjeants were required to have robes of scarlet, brown, blue, mustard and murrey. By the time the order came to an end the formal robes were red, but Mr. Serjeant Robinson recalled that, towards the end days of the order, black silk gowns were the everyday court garb and the red gown was worn only on certain formal occasions. The cape was originally a cloak worn separately from the robe, but gradually made its way into the uniform as a whole. John Fortescue described the cape as the \"main ornament of the order\", distinguished only from the cape worn by judges because it was furred with lambskin rather than miniver. The capes were not worn into court by the advocates, only by the serjeants.\n\nThe coif was the main symbol of the Order of Serjeants-at-Law, and is where their most recognisable name (the Order of the Coif) comes from. The coif was white and made of either silk or lawn. A Serjeant was never obliged to take off or cover his coif, not even in the presence of the King, except as a judge when passing a death sentence. In that situation he would wear a black cap intended to cover the Coif, although it is often confused with the coif itself. When wigs were first introduced for barristers and judges it caused some difficulty for Serjeants, who were not allowed to cover the coif. Wigmakers got around this by adding a small white cloth to the top of the wig, representing the coif.\n\nA King's or Queen's Serjeant was a Serjeant-at-Law appointed to serve the Crown as a legal adviser to the monarch and their government in the same way as the Attorney-General for England and Wales. The King's Serjeant (who had the postnominal KS, or QS during the reign of a female monarch) would represent the Crown in court, acting as prosecutor in criminal cases and representative in civil ones, and would have higher powers and ranking in the lower courts than the Attorney- or Solicitor General. King's Serjeants also worked as legal advisers in the House of Lords, and were not allowed to act in cases against the Crown or do anything that would harm it; in 1540 Serjeant Browne was heavily punished for creating a tax avoidance scheme. The King's Serjeants would wear a black Coif with a narrow strip of white, unlike the all-white Coif of a normal Serjeant. The King's Serjeants were required to swear a second oath to serve \"The King and his people\", rather than \"The King's people\" as a Serjeant-at-Law would swear. The King's favoured Serjeant would become the King's Premier Serjeant, while the oldest one was known as the King's Ancient Serjeant.\n\nFor almost all of their history, Serjeants at Law and King's Serjeants were the only advocates given rights of audience in the Court of Common Pleas. Until the 17th century they were also first in the order of precedence in the Court of King's Bench and Court of Chancery, which gave them priority in motions before the court. Serjeants also had the privilege of being immune from most normal forms of lawsuit – they could only be sued by a writ from the Court of Chancery. It was held as an extension of this that servants of Serjeants could only be sued in the Common Pleas. As part of the Court of Common Pleas the Serjeants also performed some judicial duties, such as levying fines. In exchange for these privileges, Serjeants were expected to fulfil certain duties; firstly, that they represent anybody who asked regardless of their ability to pay, and secondly that, due to the small number of judges, they serve as deputy judges to hear cases when there was no judge available.\n\nOnly Serjeants-at-Law could become judges of the common law courts; this rule came into being in the 14th century for the Courts of Common Pleas and King's Bench, and was extended to the Exchequer of Pleas in the 16th century; it did not apply to the Court of Chancery, a court of equity, or the Ecclesiastical Courts. The Serjeants-at-Law also had social privileges; they ranked above Knights Bachelor and Companions of the Bath, and their wives had the right to be addressed as \"Lady —\", in the same way as the wives of knights or baronets. A Serjeant made a King's Counsel or judge would still retain these social privileges. As the cream of the legal profession, Serjeants earned higher fees than normal barristers.\n\nIn the order of precedence King's Serjeants came before all other barristers, even the Attorney-General, until the introduction of King's Counsel. This state of affairs came to an end as a result of two changes – firstly, during the reign of James I, when a royal patent gave the Attorney General precedence over all King's Serjeants \"except the two ancientiest\", and secondly in 1814 when the Attorney General of the time was a barrister and the Solicitor General (politically junior to the Attorney General) a King's Serjeant. To reflect the political reality, the Attorney General was made superior to any King's Serjeant, and this remained until the order of Serjeants-at-Law finally died out.\n\nThe main character in C.J. Sansom's 'Shardlake' novels, hunchback lawyer Matthew Shardlake, is a Serjeant-at-Law during the reign of King Henry VIII of England.\n\n"}
{"id": "19330546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19330546", "title": "Standard State Zoning Enabling Act", "text": "Standard State Zoning Enabling Act\n\n\"A Standard State Zoning Enabling Act\" (SZEA) was a model law for U.S. states to enable zoning regulations in their jurisdictions. It was drafted by a committee of the Department of Commerce and first issued in 1922. This act was one of the foundational developments in land use planning in the United States.\n\nThe zoning advisory committee that wrote the standard act was formed in the U.S. Department of Commerce in September 1921. The Secretary of Commerce was Herbert Hoover, who was later elected US President.\n\nThe SZEA begins with several explanatory notes. The act itself is nine sections with annotations mostly describing the committee's choice of words.\n\nThe SZEA was first issued in August 1922, was reissued in revised form in January 1923, and was first printed in May 1924. More than 55,000 copies of the first printed edition were sold. A second printed edition was published in 1926.\n\nThe 1926 revised second printing noted that 19 states had passed enabling acts modeled on the Standard State Zoning Enabling Act.\n\nThe American Planning Association wrote that the SZEA and the Standard City Planning Enabling Act of 1927 \"laid the basic foundation for land development controls in the U.S.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "211937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211937", "title": "Straddle", "text": "Straddle\n\nIn finance, a straddle strategy refers to two transactions that share the same security, with positions that offset one another. One holds long risk, the other short. As a result, it involves the purchase or sale of particular option derivatives that allow the holder to profit based on how much the price of the underlying security moves, regardless of the \"direction\" of price movement.\n\nA straddle involves buying a call and put with same strike price and expiration date. If the stock price is close to the strike price at expiration of the options, the straddle leads to a loss. However, if there is a sufficiently large move in either direction, a significant profit will result. A straddle is appropriate when an investor is expecting a large move in a stock price but does not know in which direction the move will be.\n\nThe \"purchase\" of particular option derivatives is known as a long straddle, while the \"sale\" of the option derivatives is known as a short straddle.\n\nA long straddle involves \"going long,\" in other words, purchasing both a call option and a put option on some stock, interest rate, index or other underlying. The two options are bought at the same strike price and expire at the same time. The owner of a long straddle makes a profit if the underlying price moves a long way from the strike price, either above or below. Thus, an investor may take a long straddle position if he thinks the market is highly volatile, but does not know in which direction it is going to move. This position is a limited risk, since the most a purchaser may lose is the cost of both options. At the same time, there is unlimited profit potential.\n\nFor example, company XYZ is set to release its quarterly financial results in two weeks. A trader believes that the release of these results will cause a large movement in the price of XYZ's stock, but does not know whether the price will go up or down. He can enter into a long straddle, where he gets a profit no matter which way the price of XYZ stock moves, if the price changes enough either way. If the price goes up enough, he uses the call option and ignores the put option. If the price goes down, he uses the put option and ignores the call option. If the price does not change enough, he loses money, up to the total amount paid for the two options. The risk is limited by the total premium paid for the options, as opposed to the short straddle where the risk is virtually unlimited.\n\nIf the stock is sufficiently volatile and option duration is long, the trader could profit from both options. This would require the stock to move both below the put option's strike price and above the call option's strike price at different times before the option expiration date.\n\nThis is an at-the-money (ATM) Straddle with 1 year to expiry:\nAfter 50 days, the P/L graph of the straddle will look as follows (blue line):\nThe P/L blue graph is \"negative\" at prices from approximately 84 to 107 dollars (these are the break-even points), which means that in order for the strategy to be profitable after 50 days, the stock price should be either higher than 107 dollars or lower than 84 dollars.\n\nAs time goes by, due to time decay, the straddle P/L graph goes down (and becomes more and more unprofitable), until it reaches the orange line (which is the P/L of the straddle at expiry). Also, the distance between the break-even points increases.\n\nA short straddle is a non-directional options trading strategy that involves simultaneously selling a put and a call of the same underlying security, strike price and expiration date. The profit is limited to the premium received from the sale of put and call. The risk is virtually unlimited as large moves of the underlying security's price either up or down will cause losses proportional to the magnitude of the price move. A maximum profit upon expiration is achieved if the underlying security trades exactly at the strike price of the straddle. In that case both puts and calls comprising the straddle expire worthless allowing straddle owner to keep full credit received as their profit. This strategy is called \"nondirectional\" because the short straddle profits when the underlying security changes little in price before the expiration of the straddle. The short straddle can also be classified as a credit spread because the sale of the short straddle results in a credit of the premiums of the put and call.\n\nA risk for holder of a short straddle position is unlimited due to the sale of the call and the put options which expose the investor to unlimited losses (on the call) or losses limited to the strike price (on the put), whereas maximum profit is limited to the premium gained by the initial sale of the options.\n\nA tax straddle is straddling applied specifically to taxes, typically used in futures and options to create a tax shelter.\n\nFor example, an investor with a capital gain manipulates investments to create an artificial loss from an unrelated transaction to offset their gain in a current year, and postpone the gain till the following tax year. One position accumulates an unrealized gain, the other a loss. Then the position with the loss is closed prior to the completion of the tax year, countering the gain. When the new year for tax begins, a replacement position is created to offset the risk from the retained position. Through repeated straddling, gains can be postponed indefinitely over many years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30871860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30871860", "title": "Torture Victim Protection Act of 1991", "text": "Torture Victim Protection Act of 1991\n\nThe Torture Victim Protection Act of 1991 (TVPA; ) is a statute that allows for the filing of civil suits in the United States against individuals who, acting in an official capacity for any foreign nation, committed torture and/or extrajudicial killing. The statute requires a plaintiff to show exhaustion of local remedies in the location of the crime, to the extent that such remedies are \"adequate and available.\" Plaintiffs may be U.S. citizens or non-U.S. citizens.\n\nAlthough the Act was not passed until early 1992, it was introduced the previous year, and the official name of the Act is the \"Torture Victim Protection Act of 1991.\"\n\nIn 1992, Sister Dianna Ortiz was the first to file a case under the act, in a civil action against former general and Defense Minister Héctor Gramajo of Guatemala, contending that, by his command authority, he was responsible for her abduction, rape, and torture by military forces in Guatemala in November 1989. A federal court in Massachusetts ruled in her favor, awarding her $5 million in damages in 1995.\n\nThe TVPA has been used by victims of terrorism to sue foreign states that have been designated by the U.S. as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Iraq (which has since been removed from the list) and Iran. In May 2000, Miami based attorney Andrew C. Hall and clients David Daliberti, Bill Barloon, Chad Hall, Kenneth Beaty and their wives were awarded a collective sum of almost $19 million for the pains the men suffered in captivity. see \"Daliberti v. Republic of Iraq,\" 97 F.Supp.2d 38 (D.D.C. 2000); and also \"Weinstein v. Islamic Republic of Iran,\" 184 F.Supp.2d 13 (D.D.C. 2002). The Foreign Sovereign Immunity Act (FSIA), , prohibits foreign states from being sued in U.S. courts for most non-commercial issues.\n\nThe Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA), (a)(7), created an exception to the FSIA, allowing U.S. nationals to sue foreign states if the state has been designated as a state sponsor of terrorism and if the plaintiff's injury has been caused by the state's support of a terrorist organization. Following the passage of the AEDPA, numerous suits have been filed against state sponsors of terrorism, particularly Iran. Because some courts have held that the AEDPA does not create a cause of action against foreign states, plaintiffs have used the TVPA and the AEDPA in concert, first using the AEDPA to provide an exception to a foreign state's sovereign immunity, and then using the TVPA to provide a cause of action.\n\nThe TVPA has also been used by victims of torture by agents of the United States. In \"Meshal v. Higgenbotham\", a native-born American citizen alleges U.S. officials repeatedly threatened him with torture, forced disappearance, and other serious harm.\n\nOn April 18, 2012, in \"Mohamad v. Palestinian Authority\", the United States Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the TVPA applies exclusively to natural persons and does not impose liability against any organizational entity.\nThe court's decision was based on the statute's use of the word \"individual\", as distinguished from \"person\" (the latter of which is usually defined in U.S. law and statutes as meaning an individual or an organization). The court examined the word both in context of its ordinary meaning and through the legislative history of the TVPA. The court noted that the original language of the TVPA bill had used the word \"person\" and that during a House committee markup, one of the bill's sponsors proposed an amendment \"to make it clear we are applying it to individuals and not to corporations.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "39640821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39640821", "title": "Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation Between Argentina and the United Kingdom", "text": "Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation Between Argentina and the United Kingdom\n\nThe Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation Between Argentina and the United Kingdom was an 1825 treaty between the United Provinces of the River Plate (predecessor of modern Argentina) and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland (predecessor of modern United Kingdom). With this treaty, the United Kingdom accepted the 1816 Argentine Declaration of Independence. As the United Kingdom was the most powerful world power of the time, and the United States had announced the Monroe Doctrine, this treaty limited the chances of Spain to reconquer its former colony.\n\nThe treaty also allowed British subjects to keep their religion, and to build their own churches and cemeteries. This was an unprecedented step in the history of the freedom of religion in Argentina, as it was the first time that a religion other than the Catholic Church was legally allowed in the country. The treaty set as well an agreement to stop the Atlantic slave trade.\n\nIn the context of the dispute over the Falkland Islands (), Lowell S. Gustafson argues that by signing the Treaty without making any reservation about Argentina's settlement on the islands by 1825, the United Kingdom weakened its claim.\n"}
{"id": "4922101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4922101", "title": "Vocational expert", "text": "Vocational expert\n\nA vocational expert is an authority in the areas of vocational rehabilitation, vocational and earning capacity, lost earnings, cost of replacement labor and lost ability/time in performing household services. They perform evaluations for purposes of civil litigation, as an aspect of economic damages.\n\nVocational experts identify what the person could have earned prior to the incident, compared to what they are likely to earn following the incident. Economic experts calculate the value of those earnings over time, so the difference, if any, between the two income streams is clearly understood. Those who act as vocational/economic experts blend the two disciplines, and offer testimony in both arenas.\n\nA vocational \"expert\" is designated by an attorney as an expert who testifies in court, whereas a vocational \"consultant\" does not testify. Qualifications to testify in court as an expert in the field of vocational rehabilitation are fairly strict and related to State certification and licensure. Typically, a graduate degree in counseling or psychology plus certification/licensure will suffice. Ultimately, the rules of evidence in the jurisdiction presiding over the civil case prevail.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15735157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15735157", "title": "Yale Law &amp; Policy Review", "text": "Yale Law &amp; Policy Review\n\nThe Yale Law & Policy Review is a biannual student-run law review at the Yale Law School covering the intersection of law and policy. The 2007 \"ExpressO\" Guide to Top Law Reviews ranked the journal first among law and society law reviews based on the number of manuscripts received.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47229908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47229908", "title": "Yount v. City of Sacramento", "text": "Yount v. City of Sacramento\n\nYount v. City of Sacramento was a decision of the California Supreme Court, which significantly expanded the rights of a convicted arrestee subjected to excessive force during arrest. The case was brought by Brian T. Dunn of The Cochran Firm in California, on behalf of Steven Yount when Yount was shot by a Sacramento police officer after being handcuffed during a DUI arrest.\n\nDuring the early morning hours of March 10, 2001, Steven Yount, the plaintiff in the Yount case, left his home, got into his car and drove to a 7-Eleven store in Sacramento to purchase alcohol. Yount had already consumed beer and liquor that morning and was very drunk. A security guard in the parking lot of the 7-Eleven called police after he observed the visibly-intoxicated Yount attempting to get back into his vehicle. Sacramento Police Department Officer Samuel Davis arrived at the 7-Eleven, approached Yount's car, and asked him to step out of the vehicle.\n\nHe complied with Davis's request to get out of the car but refused to get inside the patrol vehicle. After some effort, Davis was able to secure Yount in the backseat of his patrol vehicle. In the backseat of the patrol vehicle, Yount shouted obscenities and racial slurs at Davis and kicked and banged his head against the side and window of the patrol vehicle.\n\nWith the assistance of two security guards in the area, Davis was able to pull Yount out of the patrol vehicle, handcuff him, and place him back inside the patrol vehicle. After he was placed back inside the patrol vehicle, he continued to shout and kick and bang his head against the doors of the vehicle. Sacramento Police Department Officers Debra Hatfield, Daniel Swafford, and Thomas Schrum responded to the 7-Eleven to assist Davis.\n\nSchrum opened the door of Davis's patrol vehicle to ask Yount for identification. When Schrum opened the door of the patrol vehicle, Yount popped out of the vehicle, attempted to move right in Schrum's face, and continued to yell and curse at the officers. Schrum forced Yount back into the patrol vehicle. Yount continued yelling obscenities at the officers and banging on the patrol vehicle while kicking his legs at Schrum. Swafford tased Yount.\n\nAfter Swafford deployed the Taser, Yount became more violent and continued to yell obscenities and racial slurs at the officers. Yount also kicked out the window of Davis's patrol vehicle. The officers decided to restrain Yount's legs before they placed him into a different patrol vehicle. When they attempted to pull Yount out of Davis's patrol vehicle, Yount refused to co-operate and resisted the officers' efforts to remove him from the vehicle.\n\nThe officers eventually managed to pull Yount out of the patrol vehicle. After the officers pulled him out of the patrol vehicle, Davis stumbled and fell to the ground. Yount kicked him and spat at him. Davis got on top of Yount, who was continuing to struggle and shout, and the officers were able to secure Yount's legs with ankle restraints. He continued to resist the officers by kicking and spitting at them. Schrum pulled out what he thought was a Taser and fired it at the back of Yount's thigh. Then, Schrum realized that he had mistakenly grabbed his firearm, instead of his Taser. Yount sustained a gunshot wound to his left buttock.\n\nAfter the incident, Yount was charged with resisting arrest in violation of California Penal Code, section 148, and driving under the influence. He pleaded no contest to and was convicted of both offenses. After the conclusion of the criminal proceedings, Brian T. Dunn, an attorney at The Cochran Firm, specializing in civil rights cases, filed a civil action on Yount's behalf against Schrum and the City of Sacramento in the Sacramento County Superior Court, alleging a claim for violation of civil rights under Section 1983 of Title 42 of the United States Code, among others. The complaint alleged that Schrum had shot him without justification and violated his constitutional rights.\n\nThe defendants argued that the 42 U.S.C. 1983 claim was a collateral attack on the conviction for resisting arrest and so was barred by \"Heck v. Humphrey\", 512 U.S. 477, 129 L. Ed. 2d 383, 114 S. Ct. 2364 (1994). That was a US Supreme Court decision that held that a plaintiff is barred from prosecuting a 42 U.S.C. 1983 action if the successful resolution of the action would necessarily imply the invalidity of a criminal conviction of the plaintiff.\n\nThe issue was whether a finding in favor off Yount on his 42 U.S.C. 1983 claim would \"necessarily imply the invalidity\" of his criminal conviction for resisting arrest. Submitted to the California Supreme Court for decision. The appeal was briefed and argued by Dunn.\n\nThe California Supreme Court held that the civil claims were barred to the extent that they alleged that Schrum was not entitled to use any force during the incident, as the use of resistance justified the use of reasonable force in response to his actions. The Court further held, however, that the civil claims were not barred, as to the use of deadly force, as it was not reasonable under the circumstances. The conviction for resisting arrest did not, by itself, provide a justification for the use of deadly force.\n\nIn holding that success on the claim of excessive deadly force would not necessarily imply the invalidity of his conviction for resisting arrest, the California Supreme Court analyzed the relationship between his acts of resistance and Schrum’s misconduct. The Court began its analysis by noting that Officer Schrum was justified in using \"reasonable force\" against Mr. Yount, who was kicking, spitting, and refusing to co-operate with the officers in the moments prior to the shooting. Consequently, to the extent that his claims alleged that he was not resisting or obstructing the officers and that the officers were not justified in using any level of force against him, they would be inconsistent with his conviction for resisting and so were barred by \"Heck\".\n\nThe California Supreme Court also noted, however, that he had alleged that the use of deadly force was excessive under the circumstances and not justified by his acts of resistance during the incident. The Court held that to the extent that his claims were based on Schrum's unjustifiable use of deadly force, the claims were not barred under \"Heck\" because the evidence did not support the use of deadly force against Yount. His criminal conviction for resisting arrest, standing alone, did not establish a justification for Schrum's use of deadly force against him. Accordingly, Yount's claim that the use of deadly force was not a reasonable response to his acts of resistance did not call the validity of his conviction for resisting arrest into question.\n\nThe decision has been followed by a number of courts confronted with cases involving similar facts, including the California Court of Appeals, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, and federal district courts in California.\n\n"}
