{"id": "49780593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49780593", "title": "Basic amino acid antiporter family", "text": "Basic amino acid antiporter family\n\nThe Basic Amino Acid Antiporter (ArcD) family (TC# 2.A.118) is a constituent of the IT superfamily. This family consists of proteins from Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria (e.g., \"Streptococcus\", \"Escherichia\", \"Salmonella\", \"Fusobacterium\" and \"Borrelia\" species). The proteins are of about 480 amino acyl residues (aas) in length and have 10-12 putative transmembrane segments (TMSs). Functionally characterized homologues are in the DcuC (TC #2.A.61) and ArsB (TC #2.A.4) families. Some members of the family probably catalyze arginine/ornithine or citruline/ornithine antiport.\n\n"}
{"id": "21400844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21400844", "title": "Buck Creek State Park", "text": "Buck Creek State Park\n\nBuck Creek State Park is a Ohio state park in Clark County, Ohio in the United States, around part of Buck Creek (or Lagonda Creek). The park is leased by the state of Ohio from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. It includes C. J. Brown Reservoir and Dam, a flood control dam and reservoir built by the USACE as part of a flood control system in the Ohio River drainage basin. Buck Creek State Park is open for year-round recreation including camping, boating, hunting, fishing, swimming, picnicking and hiking.\n\nThe land in and around Buck Creek State Park was inhabited by various Indian tribes prior to settlement by American pioneers. As happened all over the Ohio Territory white settlers from the east sought to drive the Indians from the land. One of the first major conflicts in Clark County happened in 1780 when George Rogers Clark led a group of some 1,000 men from Kentucky in an attack against the Indians in Ohio. This attack forced the Shawnee to abandon their camp near what is now Xenia. They fled Old Chillicothe for Piqua near the present site of Springfield and Buck Creek State Park. Clark pursued the Shawnee and defeated them at the Battle of Piqua. Many of the Shawnee were not killed in the battle and managed to escape into the woodlands. Tecumseh was one of those Indians and he vowed to gain vengeance on Clark and his fellow attackers. George R. Clark, Joe Williams and their men did not hold the land they gained in the battle. They retreated back to Kentucky and the Shawnee built a new Piqua on the banks of the Miami River. Hostilities between whites and Indians were at a brief standstill in the area of Buck Creek and the Mad River.\n\nClark County was safely opened to settlement by whites following the Battle of Fallen Timbers and resulting Treaty of Greenville when the Wyandot, Lenape, Shawnee, Ottawa, Chippewa, Potawatomi, Miami, Wea, Kickapoo and Kaskaskia tribes surrendered their claims to the land in what would become Ohio, Indiana and Illinois. Simon Kenton led a group of six Kentucky families into the area of Buck Creek and the Mad River. This group of settlers remained at the confluence of Buck Creek and the Mad River for two years before moving elsewhere. Kenton would then build a home along Buck Creek north of present-day Springfield. Kenton and following settlers began clearing land for farming. The fallen trees were used to build homes and barns.\n\nSettlers quickly moved into the area and farmed the fertile land. Springfield was established in 1801 and was named the county seat of Clark County. Markets to the east and west were opened to the Buck Creek State Park area in 1840 with the completion of the National Road, now U.S. Route 40. Springfield transformed from an agriculture based community to an industrial center. In fact the city led the nation in the production of farming tools.\n\nC. J. Brown Reservoir and Dam is named for Clarence J. Brown who was the State Statistician of Ohio and published several newspapers at the president of the Brown Publishing Company. Brown was also the Lieutenant Governor of Ohio from 1919-1923, the Ohio Secretary of State from 1927-1933, was the Republican nominee for governor in 1934 and finally served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1939 until his death in 1965. The House of Representatives named the dam project in his honor with a bipartisan resolution.\n\nThe dam was built across Buck Creek to control flooding in the Ohio River basin. It is made of rock fill with a sand and gravel core. It measures across and 72 high. The reservoir covers with a drainage area of .\n\nThe Crabill Homestead, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, is on the west shore of the reservoir within Buck Creek State Park. The homestead was settled in 1813 by David and Barbara Crabill who arrived in the area on a Conestoga wagon from Virginia. The home is a two-story Federal style house that is surrounded by various outbuildings. The homestead remained in the family until the early 1900s when it was left unoccupied until 1971. Slated for demolition with the construction of the dam, it was acquired by the Clark County Historical Society which restored the property and opened it to public. The homestead was acquired in 2010 by the George Rogers Clark Heritage Association of Clark County, which offers tours seasonally.\n\nBuck Creek State Park is located in an area of moraines, which are low hills that were built as the glaciers receded over 12,000 years ago. They are made of gravel and sand that piled up as the pace of glacial retreat changed over the course of time. Ancient streams were covered by sand and gravel deposited by the retreating glaciers. These streams are now springs. The springs form the numerous bogs and fens that are found throughout Clark and Champaign counties.\n\nThe bogs and fens are home to a variety of rare and unusual plant species including horned bladderwort and round-leaved sundew. Also found in the park is the spotted turtle which is endangered in Ohio. Buck Creek State Park is also home to many migrating waterfowl species and some rare songbirds including, Henslow's sparrows, dickcissels, and bobolinks.\n\nMore than of land are protected at Buck Creek State Park. Early settlers to the area described this land as being a prairie or wet prairie. The soil was very fertile and most of it was converted into farmland. Not all of the land was farmed and it was left in its natural state in isolated patches. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Ohio Department of Natural Resources have been able to use seeds from these patches to restore the prairie to some of the land at Buck Creek State Park. A large restored area is below the dam at the park. The field as nest boxes that attract tree swallows and eastern bluebirds. Non-native and invasive plant species are managed by hand pulling, cutting, mowing, burning and spraying projects. Seeds from the native plants are gathered in autumn and planted in spring in an ongoing effort to restore the area to a natural prairie environment.\n\nBuck Creek State Park is open for year-round recreation. Twenty-six air conditioned cottages are available to rent in a wooded area. Some have a view of the reservoir. There are 89 electric and 22 rustic campsites at the park. C. J. Brown Reservoir is open to all boating. Water skiing is permitted at the park. Common game fish include walleye, bass and pan fish. A swimming area on the lake is open during the summer months. Trails that are open to hiking, horse-back riding and snowmobiles measure in length. Picnic areas are spread throughout the park.\n\n"}
{"id": "44496193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44496193", "title": "Chirinda Forest Botanical Reserve", "text": "Chirinda Forest Botanical Reserve\n\nThe Chirinda Forest Botanical Reserve is situated on the slopes of Mount Selinda, south of Chipinge, in the Chipinge Highlands of Manicaland, Zimbabwe, and is administered by the Forestry Commission. The reserve is situated at between in altitude, and receives some to of annual rainfall. of its higher levels, above , is covered by moist evergreen forest, specifically Zanzibar-Inhambane transitional rain forest, of which it represents the southernmost occurrence. The headwaters of three streams, namely the Zona, Chinyika and Musangazi, drain the two broad highlands which it encloses. The boundaries of the reserve are not strictly enforced, so that cattle grazing and plant harvesting are ongoing. The reserve is surrounded by communal settlements, commercial timber plantations (eucalypts and pines) and small-scale commercial farming units. The naturalist Charles Swynnerton was appointed manager of the nearby Gungunyana farm in 1900, and a number of plant, bird and insect names commemorate his collecting activities of the next two decades. Chirinda means \"lookout\" or \"vantage point\" in the chiNdau language, or perhaps \"place of refuge\".\n\nThe medium altitude forest is likely the southernmost patch of subtropical rainforest in Africa. Phytogeographically it is classed as Afromontane forest, but with lowland and Guineo-Congolian elements. It is situated on two hill tops on dolerite-derived soils, and Müller (1991) proposed that these soil types determine its extent. Goldsmith (1876) however suggested that it is only a relic of a once much larger forest which has been reduced by gradual climatic changes in a few hundred years.\n\nYear-round moisture, in the form of rain, mist or dew, provides for a substantial and intact moist leaf litter layer, on which its ecological processes depend. Decomposition is fungal, and not by termites or similar insects as would be the case in drier woodlands of the region. Several tree species bear fleshy fruit, resulting in a good representation of mammal and bird frugivores, which impact both negatively and positively on seed dispersal. Much of the fauna shows affinities to forests elsewhere, particularly those at lower altitudes along the East Africa coastal plains.\n\nProtection from fires is expected to facilitate the regeneration and expansion of the forest. During his time of residence, Swynnerton noted that recurring fires had been gradually reducing outlying forest patches. Destruction of portions of the Chipete and Chipungambira satellite forest patches occurred during the 1860s. It may have been aided by elephants which opened up forest, but more likely resulted from indigenous people who regularly cleared land by fire in spring time. Fire-resistant mobola plum and mahobohobo trees are pioneer species in such areas.\n\nMaupare (1993) however noted that the forest boundary was stable and that former logging operations in the northern section had no lasting effect on the plant diversity. This extraction of red mahogany, peawood and tannodia during the 1940s also had little effect on its extent.\n\nThe area is home to a high diversity of plants, fungi, birds, butterflies, insects and reptiles.\n\nRare tree species which seldom occur elsewhere in Zimbabwe include the fluted milkwood (dominant canopy species), Chirinda fig, undershrub big-leaf, Chirinda stinkwood, yellow bitterberry and forest strychnos. The type of the latter species was obtained in the forest by Swynnerton.\n\nThe dominant canopy species, besides fluted milkwood, are forest mahogany and peawood. The sub-canopy is occupied by tannodia, forest strychnos and forest ironplum. The Big Tree grows in the southern part of the reserve in the \"Valley of the Giants\". It is the largest red mahogany tree in southern Africa and the tallest native tree in Zimbabwe. The 600- to 1,000-year-old (some estimate 2,000-year-old) leviathan has a trunk diameter of about 6 metres. Other forest tree species include colossal specimens of strangling figs, brown mahogany, white stinkwood, forest climbing acacia, ironwood, giant diospyros, apricot vine, forest peach, forest rothmannia, strombosia and forest toad-tree. The forest edge is characterized by smooth-barked flat-crown, forest num-num, forest sword-leaf, horsewood, forest croton, climbing turkey-berry, Manica bride's bush, green flower tree, small-fruited teclea, elbow-leaf, mitzeerie, eastern blue-bush, magic guarri, orange-milk tree, lavender tree, mobola plum, wild currant and climbing orange are common species of the surrounding savannah.\n\nThousands of specimens of the yucca-like \"Dracaena fragrans\" populate the forest floor, and numerous ferns, creepers, vines, epiphytes and orchids (including \"Calanthe sylvatica\") are to be found. montbretia and flame lilies are also present, while guava, lantana and ginger are exotic invasive species.\n\nSamango monkeys are regularly seen, and leopard on the odd occasion. The local races of the mutable sun squirrel (\"H. m. chirindensis\") and red-bellied coast squirrel (i.e. Selinda mountain squirrel, \"P. p. swynnertoni\") are mountain isolates. The Selinda veld rat occurs in tangled vegetation on rocky areas, and is only known from two other sites in Zimbabwe.\n\nA few highland bird species reach their southernmost occurrence here, namely the Chirinda apalis (type locality), Swynnerton's robin, a globally threatened monotypic genus, stripe-cheeked greenbul (\"A. m. disjunctus\"), moustached warbler (\"M. m. orientalis\"), white-tailed flycatcher and yellow-bellied waxbill. Wide-ranging African species include crowned eagle, trumpeter and silvery-cheeked hornbills, both breeders, Livingstone's turaco, lemon dove, green pigeon, owls, nightjars, bee-eaters, pygmy kingfisher, yellow-streaked (\"P. f. dendrophilus\") and sombre greenbuls, yellow-throated (\"S. r. alacris\"), Barratt's (\"B. b. priesti\") and broad-tailed warblers, olive and black-fronted bushshrikes, Cape batis, sunbirds and firefinches. Various bird races were first described from this location: a strikingly coloured race of red-necked spurfowl (\"P. a. swynnertoni\"), a fulvous-coloured race of wailing cisticola (\"C. l. mashona\"), a race of bar-throated apalis (\"A. t. arnoldi\"), the smallish, dusky and streaky-throated Swynnerton's thrush (\"T. o. swynnertoni\") which is endemic to the Eastern Highlands, and a race of olive sunbird (\"C. o. sclateri\"). The forest is situated too low for orange thrush, Roberts's warbler, malachite or bronze sunbirds, and too high for yellow-spotted nicator, white-eared barbet or grey waxbill. Crested guineafowl however inhabits its lower elevations and green malkoha recently populated the forest from lower altitudes. Blue-mantled flycatchers occupy the lower altitudes or fringing thickets, but remain segregated from white-tailed flycatchers which occupy the forest proper or higher canopy.\n\nThe reptile fauna includes pythons, cobras, vipers, mambas, adders, chameleons, geckos, skinks and lizards. Marshall's leaf chameleon, an endemic of the Eastern Highlands, is found within the forest and along its margins. The type species \"C. swynnertoni\" of the worm lizard genus \"Chirindia\" was described from this locality, while another worm lizard, \"Zygaspis ferox\", is endemic to the forest and its vicinity.\n\nThe types of Broadley's forest treefrog, Hewitt's long-nosed frog and the Chirinda toad were obtained in the forest. The Chirinda toad is known from Chirinda and the forest north of Dombé in adjacent Mozambique. It is a terrestrial species that lives on leaf-litter, and takes refuge under rotten logs.\n\nThe Mount Selinda acraea mimic butterfly is found nowhere else. The type of the ebony bush brown was obtained from Chirinda forest, and it is also known from the Vumba. It flies all year and has distinct seasonal forms. The Chirinda bush brown is named for the forest, but it is in fact a widespread species. Its type was obtained at an unknown location in the Eastern Highlands, and it is distinguished from the previous species by its lighter upperside ground colour, and the contrasting hair-pencils of the male.\n\nThe well-marked route to the campsite leaves the main road just east of the mission hospital in Mount Selinda. It is located 4 km into the forest, and also has chalets with clean facilities and braai stands.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234766", "title": "Chlorodifluoromethane", "text": "Chlorodifluoromethane\n\nChlorodifluoromethane or difluoromonochloromethane is a hydrochlorofluorocarbon (HCFC). This colorless gas is better known as HCFC-22, or R-22. It is commonly used as a propellant and refrigerant. These applications are being phased out in developed countries due to the compound's ozone depletion potential (ODP) and high global warming potential (GWP), although global use of R-22 continues to increase because of high demand in developing countries. R-22 is a versatile intermediate in industrial organofluorine chemistry, e.g. as a precursor to tetrafluoroethylene. R-22 cylinders are colored light green.\n\nWorldwide production of R-22 in 2008 was about 800 Gg per year, up from about 450 Gg per year in 1998, with most production in developing countries. R-22 use is increasing in developing countries, largely for air conditioning applications. Air conditioning sales are growing 20% annually in India and China.\n\nR-22 is prepared from chloroform:\n\nAn important application of R-22 is as a precursor to tetrafluoroethylene. This conversion involves pyrolysis to give difluorocarbene, which dimerizes:\n\nThe compound also yields difluorocarbene upon treatment with strong base and is used in the laboratory as a source of this reactive intermediate.\n\nThe pyrolysis of R-22 in the presence of chlorofluoromethane gives hexafluorobenzene.\n\nR-22 is often used as an alternative to the highly ozone-depleting CFC-11 and CFC-12, because of its relatively low ozone depletion potential of 0.055, among the lowest for chlorine-containing haloalkanes. However, even this lower ozone depletion potential is no longer considered acceptable.\n\nAs an additional environmental concern, R-22 is a powerful greenhouse gas with a global warming potential equal to 1810 (which indicates 1810 times as powerful as carbon dioxide).[4] Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) are often substituted for R-22 because of their lower Ozone Depleting Potential, but these refrigerants also have high global warming potential. R-410A, for example, is often substituted, but has a Global Warming Potential of 1725. Another substitute is R404A with a Global Warming Potential of 3900. Other substitute refrigerants are available with low Global Warming Potential. Ammonia (R717), for example, has a Global Warming Potential of <1 and is a popular substitute on fishing vessels. Propane (R-290), is another example, and has a Global Warming Potential of 3, although it is rarely used in refrigeration systems because of its flammability and potential for explosion.\n\nSince January 1, 2010, it has been illegal to use newly manufactured HCFCs to service refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment - only reclaimed and recycled HCFCs may be used. In practice this means that the gas has to be removed from the equipment before servicing and replaced afterwards, rather than refilling with new gas.\n\nSince January 1, 2015, it has been illegal to use any HCFCs to service refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment; broken equipment that used HCFC refrigerants must be replaced with equipment that does not use them.\n\nR-22 has been mostly phased out in new equipment in the United States under the Montreal Protocol, and has been replaced by other refrigerants with lower ozone depletion potential such as propane (R-290), pentafluoroethane, R-134a (1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane), and blended mixtures of HFCs such as R-409A, R-410A, R-438A, and R-507A. See refrigerant for specific components of the R-400 and R-500 HFC blends used to replace R-22.\n\n\nR-407A is for use in for low- and medium-temp refrigeration. Uses a polyolester (POE) oil.\n\nR-407C is for use in air conditioning. Uses a minimum of 20 percent POE oil.\n\nR-407F is for use in medium- and low-temperature refrigeration applications (supermarkets, cold storage, and process refrigeration); direct expansion system design only. Uses a POE oil.\n\nR-407H is for use in medium- and low-temperature refrigeration applications (supermarkets, cold storage, and process refrigeration); direct expansion system design only. Uses a POE oil.\n\nR-421A is for use in “air conditioning split systems, heat pumps, supermarket pak systems, dairy chillers, reach-in storage, bakery applications, refrigerated transport, self-contained display cabinets, and walk-in coolers.” Uses mineral oil (MO), Alkylbenzene (AB), and POE.\n\nR-422B is for use in low-, medium-, and high-temperature applications. It is not recommended for use in flooded applications.\n\nR-422C is for use in medium- and low-temperature applications. The TXV power element will need to be changed to a 404A/507A element and critical seals (elastomers) may need to be replaced.\n\nR-422D is for use in low-temp applications, and is mineral oil compatible.\n\nR-424A is for use in air conditioning as well as medium-temp refrigeration temperature ranges of 20 to 50˚F. It works with MO, alkylbenzenes (AB), and POE oils.\n\nR-427A is for use in air conditioning and refrigeration applications. It does not require all the mineral oil to be removed. It works with MO, AB, and POE oils.\n\nR-434A is for use in water cooled and process chillers for air conditioning and medium- and low-temperature applications. It works with MO, AB, and POE oils.\n\nR-438A (MO-99) is for use in low-, medium-, and high-temperature applications. It is compatible with all lubricants.\nR-458A is for use in air conditioning and refrigeration applications, without capacity or efficiency loss. Works with MO, AB, and POE oils. \n\nIt has two allotropes: crystalline II below 59 K and crystalline I above 59 K to 115.73 K.\n\nNext diagram represents the pressure-enthalpy R22 properties, using Refprop 9.0 database, using the International Institute of Refrigeration reference.\n\nEPA's analysis indicated the amount of existing inventory was between 22,700 MT (metric tons) and 45,400 MT.\n\nTBD = To be determined\nIn 2012 the EPA reduced the amount of R-22 by 45%, causing the price to rise by more than 300%. For 2013, the EPA has reduced the amount of R-22 by 29%.\n\n"}
{"id": "15398749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15398749", "title": "Clare Francis", "text": "Clare Francis\n\nClare Mary Francis (born 17 April 1946) is a British novelist who was first known for her career as a yachtswoman who has twice sailed across the Atlantic on her own and she was the first woman to captain a successful boat on the Whitbread Around the World race.\n\nFrancis was born in Thames Ditton in Surrey and spent summer holidays on the Isle of Wight, where she learnt to sail. She was educated at the Royal Ballet School, then gained a degree in Economics at University College London.\n\nIn 1973, after working in marketing for three years, she took leave to sail singlehandedly across the Atlantic, departing from Falmouth in Cornwall and arriving, 37 days later, at Newport, Rhode Island. Following this, she received sponsorship to take part in the 1974 Round Britain Race with Eve Bonham. They finished in third place. In 1975, she took part in the Azores and Back and the L'Aurore singlehanded races; and, in 1976, she competed in the \"Observer\" Singlehanded Transatlantic Race in her Ohlson 38 yacht \"Robertson's Golly\", finishing thirteenth overall and setting a new women's single-handed transatlantic record. She also took part in that year's L'Aurore singlehanded race. During 1977 and 1978, she became the first woman to skipper a yacht in the Whitbread Round the World Race, finishing in fifth place in her Swan 65 \"ADC Accutrac\".\n\nAfter writing three accounts of her experiences while sailing, she turned to fiction and is the author of eight best-sellers.\n\nFrancis suffers from chronic fatigue syndrome and is a trustee of the UK charity Action for ME.\n\n3rd Worthing Scout Group Cub Pack’s take the names of famous solo sailors. ‘Francis’ Cub Pack is named in honour of Clare Francis.\n\nFrancis married a draughtsman named Jacques Redon in 1977 who became a crew member on her yacht and the father of her child.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57354076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57354076", "title": "Conifer release", "text": "Conifer release\n\nConifer release is a term used in forest management circles to denote selective silvicide and herbicide use, in order to promote conifers at the expense of alternate species. An Oregon State University Extension Service specialist wrote in 2014 that:\nWeyerhauser used Glyphosate as early as 1979 for its conifer release programme.\n\nScientists noted in 1997 that the below- and near-ground microclimates were affected by conifer release treatments.\n\nScientists at the Lakehead University used Vision (a trade-mark of Monsanto) in 1998 to suppress \"Vaccinium\" blueberry production and hence to promote conifer release in a jack pine plantation.\n\nA partial list of common pesticides employed as early as 1981 for conifer release is found below.\n\n"}
{"id": "12294713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12294713", "title": "Drake Landing Solar Community", "text": "Drake Landing Solar Community\n\nThe Drake Landing Solar Community (DLSC) is a planned community in Okotoks, Alberta, Canada, equipped with a central solar heating system and other energy efficient technology. This heating system is the first of its kind in North America, although much larger systems have been built in northern Europe. The 52 homes in the community are heated with a solar district heating system that is charged with heat originating from solar collectors on the garage roofs and is enabled for year-round heating by underground seasonal thermal energy storage (STES).\n\nThe system was designed to model a way of addressing global warming and the burning of fossil fuels. The solar energy is captured by 800 solar thermal collectors located on the roofs of all 52 houses' garages. It is billed as the first solar powered subdivision in North America, although its electricity and transportation needs are provided by conventional sources.\n\nIn 2012 the installation achieved a world record solar fraction of 97%; that is, providing that amount of the community's heating requirements with solar energy over a one-year time span.\n\nThere are 52 homes in this subdivision that contain an array of 800 solar thermal collectors. These solar collectors are arranged on the roofs of garages located behind the homes. During a typical summer day these collectors can generate 1.5 mega-watts of thermal power. A glycol solution (an anti-freeze solution; a mixture of water and non-toxic glycol) is heated by the sun’s energy and travels through insulated piping underground through a trench system to the heat exchanger within the community’s Energy Centre. This is known as the Solar Collector Loop. The glycol solution then transfers its heat to water located in the short-term storage tanks. The District Heating Loop begins with water being heated in the heat exchanger to a temperature of 40-50 °C within the Energy Centre. This lower temperature is more energy efficient, as solar collecting is more compatible with lower temperatures. This increases the total amount of heat available to each home.\n\nIn the warmer months the previously heated water is taken from the short-term storage tank to the Borehole Thermal Energy Storage (BTES). The Borehole Thermal Energy Storage unit is 144 holes located below the ground and stretches over an approximate area of in diameter. The water returns to the short-term storage tanks in the Energy Centre to be heated again in order to complete the circuit. During colder months the water from the BTES passes back to the short-term storage tank and is then directed to each home. Similar to a hot water tank, the heated water goes through a heat exchanger that blows air across the warm fan coil. Heat travels from the water to the air and is directed through the house via ductwork. When the temperature reaches that said on the thermostat, an automatic valve shuts off the heat transfer unit.\n\nThe Energy Centre building is a 232 square metre (2,500 square feet) building which began operation in 2007. It is home to the short-term storage tanks and most mechanical equipment such as pumps, heat exchangers, and controls. The Solar Collector Loop, the District Heating Loop, and the Borehole Thermal Energy Storage Loop pass through the Energy Centre. Two horizontal water tanks occupy the majority of the space within the Energy Centre. These tanks are in diameter and in length. The remaining space within the Energy Centre houses pumps, valves, heat exchangers and other necessary equipment to operate and control the energy system. These tanks are known as Short-Term Thermal Storage (STTS).\n\nThe Borehole Thermal Energy System is located underground to store large quantities of heat collected in the summer to be used in the winter. It consists of 144 boreholes, which stretch to a depth of . At the surface the pipes are joined together in groups of six to connect to the Energy Centre. The entire BTES is covered by a layer of insulation, on top of which a park is built. When the heated water is to be stored, it is pumped through the pipe series. The heat is then transferred to the surrounding soil as the water cools and returns to the Energy Centre. When the homes need heat, water flows to the centre of the BTES field and picks up the heat from the surrounding soil. The heated water then goes to the short-term energy tank in the Energy Centre and is pumped through the District Heating Loop to the homes.\n\nThis project was conceived by Natural Resources Canada’s CanmetENERGY in partnership with governmental organizations and Canadian industries. Of the $7 million needed for this project this was the breakdown of funds: \n\nHomeowners were willing to pay for these energy efficient homes because it ensured high quality construction. Until the solar heating system began working, ATCO Gas (an Alberta-based natural gas distribution company) fixed heating costs at $60 per month for the homeowners at the Drake Landing Solar Community. With rising fuel costs, this was a powerful incentive for homeowners to support the DLSC project. Even if the project had failed, ATCO Gas would have replaced the special hot-water furnaces with traditional natural gas ones. There was limited risk to the homeowners and this encouraged them to support the project.\n\nThe 52 homes in Drake Landing Solar Community are certified to Natural Resource Canada’s R-2000 Standard as well as the Built Green™ Alberta Gold Standard.\n\n\nA group of researchers from South Korea visited Drake Landing Solar Community in April 2012 to study the geothermal heating technology and how it can be applied to communities in South Korea, particularly ahead of the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang. The main focus of this research trip was to learn about the economics and reliability of the technology.\n\nOn October 5, 2012 the DLSC set a new world record by covering 97% of space heating needs with solar thermal energy. In the 2015-2016 heating season, 100% of space heating needs were met with solar energy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41161859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41161859", "title": "Ecological speciation", "text": "Ecological speciation\n\nEcological speciation is the process by which ecologically based divergent selection between different environments leads to the creation of reproductive barriers between populations. This is often the result of selection over traits which are genetically correlated to reproductive isolation, thus speciation occurs as a by-product of adaptive divergence.\n\nEcological selection is \"the interaction of individuals with their environment during resource acquisition\". Natural selection is inherently involved in the process of speciation, whereby, \"under ecological speciation, populations in different environments, or populations exploiting different resources, experience contrasting natural selection pressures on the traits that directly or indirectly bring about the evolution of reproductive isolation\". Evidence for the role ecology plays in the process of speciation exists. Studies of stickleback populations support ecologically-linked speciation arising as a by-product, alongside numerous studies of parallel speciation—of which, substantiates speciation's occurrence in nature.\n\nThe key difference between ecological speciation and other kinds of speciation, is that it is triggered by divergent natural selection among different habitats; as opposed to other kinds of speciation processes, like random genetic drift, the fixation of incompatible mutations in populations experiencing similar selective pressures, or various forms of sexual selection not involving selection on ecologically relevant traits. Ecological speciation can occur either in allopatry, sympatry, or parapatry. The only requirement being that speciation occurs as a result of adaptation to different ecological or micro-ecological conditions.\n\nSome debate exists over the framework concerning the delineation of whether a speciation event is ecological or nonecological. \"The pervasive effect of selection suggests that adaptive evolution and speciation are inseparable, casting doubt on whether speciation is ever nonecological\".\n\nParallel speciation is where \"greater reproductive isolation repeatedly evolves between independent populations adapting to contrasting environments than between independent populations adapting to similar environments\". It is established that ecological speciation occurs and with much of the evidence, \"...accumulated from top-down studies of adaptation and reproductive isolation\".\n\nKnown examples of ecological speciation include three-spined stickleback fishes, distinct species of which emerged as the result to adaptation of different conditions along water depth clines in freshwater lakes. Ancestors of the genus \"Ilex\" (holly) became isolated from the remaining \"Ilex\" when the Earth mass broke away into Gondwana and Laurasia about 82 million years ago, resulting in a physical separation of the groups (allopatry) and beginning a process of change to adapt to new conditions; over time survivor species of the holly genus adapted to different ecological niches. The invasive weed species \"Centaurea solstitialis\" is thought to be a case of ecological speciation—in less than 200 years, incipient reproductive isolation appeared as a result to adaptation to different ecological conditions between native and non-native ranges.\n\nParallel speciation occurs for example in mosquito fish in the Bahamas, where \"Gambusia\" fish inhabit \"blue holes\"—carbonate caves and depressions flooded with water throughout the islands. Some of the holes contain the piscivorous predator fish \"Gobiomorus dormitor\", while others have no major predators (excluding birds). The authors of the study tested for ecological speciation by measuring three different data sets: morphological data (to test for divergent natural selection), molecular data (to test for \"replicated trait evolution in independent populations\" with similar phenotypes), and mate-choice trials (to test for reproductive isolation between \"ecologically divergent pairs of populations than ecologically similar ones\": a by-product resulting from divergent traits). The study allowed for a natural experiment to test the effects of predator-mediated natural selection and its by-product: ecological speciation. The results suggested a \"strong confirmation of the ecological speciation hypothesis\" and amply supported parallel speciation taking place within the different blue holes.\n\nAnother example is in skinks, where the genus \"Plestiodon\" (formerly \"Eumeces\") has a complex evolutionary history with ecological speciation and parallel speciation of the three species (within two morphotypes): \"E. skiltonianus\" and \"E. lagunensis\", and \"E. gilberti\". \"E. gilberti\" occupies dry, low-elevation habitats, has a larger body size, and uniform, solid color scales. The other two species inhabit higher-elevation regions, have smaller bodies, and exhibit colored stripes. The members of the group have similar phenotypic stages during early development but differ in their morphology in later stages. A phylogenetic analysis using mtDNA of the entire group, (including all species and subspecies of the \"Eumeces\" group inhabiting the western United States) combined with comparative approaches to morphology, and geographic distribution showed \"instances of parallel morphological evolution...and provide evidence that this system is consistent with a model of ecological speciation\" due to \"the similarity in early ontogenetic trajectories and the close association between differences in body size and color pattern[s]\" of each morphotype.\n\n"}
{"id": "3882879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3882879", "title": "Erosion control", "text": "Erosion control\n\nErosion control is the practice of preventing or controlling wind or water erosion in agriculture, land development, coastal areas, river banks and construction. Effective erosion controls handle surface runoff and are important techniques in preventing water pollution, soil loss, wildlife habitat loss and human property loss.\n\nErosion controls are used in natural areas, agricultural settings or urban environments. In urban areas erosion controls are often part of stormwater runoff management programs required by local governments. The controls often involve the creation of a physical barrier, such as vegetation or rock, to absorb some of the energy of the wind or water that is causing the erosion. They also involve building and maintaining storm drains. On construction sites they are often implemented in conjunction with sediment controls such as sediment basins and silt fences.\n\nBank erosion is a natural process: without it, rivers would not meander and change course. However, land management patterns that change the hydrograph and/or vegetation cover can act to increase or decrease channel migration rates. In many places, whether or not the banks are unstable due to human activities, people try to keep a river in a single place. This can be done for environmental reclamation or to prevent a river from changing course into land that is being used by people. One way that this is done is by placing riprap or gabions along the bank.\n\nExamples of erosion control methods include:\nSince the 1920s and 1930s scientists have been creating mathematical models for understanding the mechanisms of soil erosion and resulting sediment surface runoff, including an early paper by Albert Einstein applying Baer's law. These models have addressed both gully and sheet erosion. Earliest models were a simple set of linked equations which could be employed by manual calculation. By the 1970s the models had expanded to complex computer models addressing nonpoint source pollution with thousands of lines of computer code. The more complex models were able to address nuances in micrometeorology, soil particle size distributions and micro-terrain variation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1496984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1496984", "title": "Flue-gas desulfurization", "text": "Flue-gas desulfurization\n\nFlue-gas desulfurization (FGD) is a set of technologies used to remove sulfur dioxide () from exhaust flue gases of fossil-fuel power plants, and from the emissions of other sulfur oxide emitting processes (e.g trash incineration)\n\nAs stringent environmental regulations regarding SO emissions have been enacted in many countries, is now being removed from flue gases by a variety of methods. Below are common methods used:\n\n\nFor a typical coal-fired power station, flue-gas desulfurization (FGD) may remove 90 percent or more of the in the flue gases.\n\nMethods of removing sulfur dioxide from boiler and furnace exhaust gases have been studied for over 150 years. Early ideas for flue gas desulfurization were established in England around 1850.\n\nWith the construction of large-scale power plants in England in the 1920s, the problems associated with large volumes of from a single site began to concern the public. The emissions problem did not receive much attention until 1929, when the House of Lords upheld the claim of a landowner against the Barton Electricity Works of the Manchester Corporation for damages to his land resulting from emissions. Shortly thereafter, a press campaign was launched against the erection of power plants within the confines of London. This outcry led to the imposition of controls on all such power plants.\n\nThe first major FGD unit at a utility was installed in 1931 at Battersea Power Station, owned by London Power Company. In 1935, an FGD system similar to that installed at Battersea went into service at Swansea Power Station. The third major FGD system was installed in 1938 at Fulham Power Station. These three early large-scale FGD installations were abandoned during World War II. Large-scale FGD units did not reappear at utilities until the 1970s, where most of the installations occurred in the United States and Japan.\n\nAs of June 1973, there were 42 FGD units in operation, 36 in Japan and 6 in the United States, ranging in capacity from 5 MW to 250 MW. As of around 1999 and 2000, FGD units were being used in 27 countries, and there were 678 FGD units operating at a total power plant capacity of about 229 gigawatts. About 45% of the FGD capacity was in the U.S., 24% in Germany, 11% in Japan, and 20% in various other countries. Approximately 79% of the units, representing about 199 gigawatts of capacity, were using lime or limestone wet scrubbing. About 18% (or 25 gigawatts) utilized spray-dry scrubbers or sorbent injection systems.\n\nFossil fuels such as coal and oil can contain a significant amount of sulfur. When fossil fuels are burned, about 95 percent or more of the sulfur is generally converted to sulfur dioxide (). Such conversion happens under normal conditions of temperature and of oxygen present in the flue gas. However, there are circumstances under which such reaction may not occur.\n\nWhen flue gas has too much oxygen, the further oxidizes into sulfur trioxide (). Too much oxygen is only one of the ways that is formed. Gas temperature is also an important factor. At about 800 °C, formation of is favored. Another way that can be formed is through catalysis by metals in the fuel. Such reaction is particularly true for heavy fuel oil, where a significant amount of vanadium is present. In whatever way is formed, it does not behave like in that it forms a liquid aerosol known as sulfuric acid () mist that is very difficult to remove. Generally, about 1% of the sulfur dioxide will be converted to . Sulfuric acid mist is often the cause of the blue haze that often appears as the flue gas plume dissipates. Increasingly, this problem is being addressed by the use of wet electrostatic precipitators.\n\nMost FGD systems employ two stages: one for fly ash removal and the other for removal. Attempts have been made to remove both the fly ash and in one scrubbing vessel. However, these systems experienced severe maintenance problems and low removal efficiency. In wet scrubbing systems, the flue gas normally passes first through a fly ash removal device, either an electrostatic precipitator or a baghouse, and then into the -absorber. However, in dry injection or spray drying operations, the is first reacted with the lime, and then the flue gas passes through a particulate control device.\n\nAnother important design consideration associated with wet FGD systems is that the flue gas exiting the absorber is saturated with water and still contains some . These gases are highly corrosive to any downstream equipment such as fans, ducts, and stacks. Two methods that may minimize corrosion are: (1) reheating the gases to above their dew point, or (2) using materials of construction and designs that allow equipment to withstand the corrosive conditions. Both alternatives are expensive. Engineers determine which method to use on a site-by-site basis.\n\n is an acid gas, and, therefore, the typical sorbent slurries or other materials used to remove the from the flue gases are alkaline. The reaction taking place in wet scrubbing using a (limestone) slurry produces calcium sulfite () and may be expressed in the simplified dry form as:\n\nWhen wet scrubbing with a Ca(OH) (hydrated lime) slurry, the reaction also produces CaSO (calcium sulfite) and may be expressed in the simplified dry form as:\n\nWhen wet scrubbing with a Mg(OH) (magnesium hydroxide) slurry, the reaction produces MgSO (magnesium sulfite) and may be expressed in the simplified dry form as:\n\nTo partially offset the cost of the FGD installation, some designs, particularly dry sorbent injection systems, further oxidize the CaSO (calcium sulfite) to produce marketable CaSO-2HO (gypsum) that can be of high enough quality to use in wallboard and other products. The process by which this synthetic gypsum is created is also known as forced oxidation:\n\nA natural alkaline usable to absorb SO is seawater. The is absorbed in the water, and when oxygen is added reacts to form sulfate ions SO- and free H. The surplus of H is offset by the carbonates in seawater pushing the carbonate equilibrium to release gas:\n\nIn industry caustic (NaOH) is often used to scrub , producing sodium sulfite:\n\nTo promote maximum gas–liquid surface area and residence time, a number of wet scrubber designs have been used, including spray towers, venturis, plate towers, and mobile packed beds. Because of scale buildup, plugging, or erosion, which affect FGD dependability and absorber efficiency, the trend is to use simple scrubbers such as spray towers instead of more complicated ones. The configuration of the tower may be vertical or horizontal, and flue gas can flow cocurrently, countercurrently, or crosscurrently with respect to the liquid. The chief drawback of spray towers is that they require a higher liquid-to-gas ratio requirement for equivalent removal than other absorber designs.\n\nFGD scrubbers produce a scaling wastewater that requires treatment to meet discharge regulations. However, technological advancements in ion exchange membranes and electrodialysis systems has enabled high-efficiency treatment of FGD wastewater to meet recent EPA discharge limits. The treatment approach is similar for other highly scaling industrial wastewaters.\n\nA venturi scrubber is a converging/diverging section of duct. The converging section accelerates the gas stream to high velocity. When the liquid stream is injected at the throat, which is the point of maximum velocity, the turbulence caused by the high gas velocity atomizes the liquid into small droplets, which creates the surface area necessary for mass transfer to take place. The higher the pressure drop in the venturi, the smaller the droplets and the higher the surface area. The penalty is in power consumption.\n\nFor simultaneous removal of and fly ash, venturi scrubbers can be used. In fact, many of the industrial sodium-based throwaway systems are venturi scrubbers originally designed to remove particulate matter. These units were slightly modified to inject a sodium-based scrubbing liquor. Although removal of both particles and in one vessel can be economic, the problems of high pressure drops and finding a scrubbing medium to remove heavy loadings of fly ash must be considered. However, in cases where the particle concentration is low, such as from oil-fired units, it can be more effective to remove particulate and simultaneously.\n\nA packed scrubber consists of a tower with packing material inside. This packing material can be in the shape of saddles, rings, or some highly specialized shapes designed to maximize the contact area between the dirty gas and liquid. Packed towers typically operate at much lower pressure drops than venturi scrubbers and are therefore cheaper to operate. They also typically offer higher removal efficiency. The drawback is that they have a greater tendency to plug up if particles are present in excess in the exhaust air stream.\n\nA spray tower is the simplest type of scrubber. It consists of a tower with spray nozzles, which generate the droplets for surface contact. Spray towers are typically used when circulating a slurry (see below). The high speed of a venturi would cause erosion problems, while a packed tower would plug up if it tried to circulate a slurry.\n\nCounter-current packed towers are infrequently used because they have a tendency to become plugged by collected particles or to scale when lime or limestone scrubbing slurries are used.\n\nAs explained above, alkaline sorbents are used for scrubbing flue gases to remove SO. Depending on the application, the two most important are lime and sodium hydroxide (also known as caustic soda). Lime is typically used on large coal- or oil-fired boilers as found in power plants, as it is very much less expensive than caustic soda. The problem is that it results in a slurry being circulated through the scrubber instead of a solution. This makes it harder on the equipment. A spray tower is typically used for this application. The use of lime results in a slurry of calcium sulfite (CaSO) that must be disposed of. Fortunately, calcium sulfite can be oxidized to produce by-product gypsum (CaSO · 2HO) which is marketable for use in the building products industry.\n\nCaustic soda is limited to smaller combustion units because it is more expensive than lime, but it has the advantage that it forms a solution rather than a slurry. This makes it easier to operate. It produces a \"spent caustic\" solution of sodium sulfite/bisulfite (depending on the pH), or sodium sulfate that must be disposed of. This is not a problem in a kraft pulp mill for example, where this can be a source of makeup chemicals to the recovery cycle.\n\nIt is possible to scrub sulfur dioxide by using a cold solution of sodium sulfite; this forms a sodium hydrogen sulfite solution. By heating this solution it is possible to reverse the reaction to form sulfur dioxide and the sodium sulfite solution. Since the sodium sulfite solution is not consumed, it is called a regenerative treatment. The application of this reaction is also known as the Wellman–Lord process.\n\nIn some ways this can be thought of as being similar to the reversible liquid–liquid extraction of an inert gas such as xenon or radon (or some other solute which does not undergo a chemical change during the extraction) from water to another phase. While a chemical change does occur during the extraction of the sulfur dioxide from the gas mixture, it is the case that the extraction equilibrium is shifted by changing the temperature rather than by the use of a chemical reagent.\n\nA new, emerging flue gas desulfurization technology has been described by the IAEA. It is a radiation technology where an intense beam of electrons is fired into the flue gas at the same time as ammonia is added to the gas. The Chendu power plant in China started up such a flue gas desulfurization unit on a 100 MW scale in 1998. The Pomorzany power plant in Poland also started up a similar sized unit in 2003 and that plant removes both sulfur and nitrogen oxides. Both plants are reported to be operating successfully. However, the accelerator design principles and manufacturing quality need further improvement for continuous operation in industrial conditions.\n\nNo radioactivity is required or created in the process. The electron beam is generated by a device similar to the electron gun in a TV set. This device is called an accelerator. This is an example of a radiation chemistry process where the physical effects of radiation are used to process a substance.\n\nThe action of the electron beam is to promote the oxidation of sulfur dioxide to sulfur(VI) compounds. The ammonia reacts with the sulfur compounds thus formed to produce ammonium sulfate, which can be used as a nitrogenous fertilizer. In addition, it can be used to lower the nitrogen oxide content of the flue gas. This method has attained industrial plant scale.\n\nFlue gas desulfurization scrubbers have been applied to combustion units firing coal and oil that range in size from 5 MW to 1500 MW. Scottish Power are spending £400 million installing FGD at Longannet power station, which has a capacity of over 2 GW. Dry scrubbers and spray scrubbers have generally been applied to units smaller than 300 MW.\n\nFGD has been fitted by RWE npower at Aberthaw Power Station in south Wales using the seawater process and works successfully on the 1580MW plant.\n\nApproximately 85% of the flue gas desulfurization units installed in the US are wet scrubbers, 12% are spray dry systems, and 3% are dry injection systems.\n\nThe highest removal efficiencies (greater than 90%) are achieved by wet scrubbers and the lowest (less than 80%) by dry scrubbers. However, the newer designs for dry scrubbers are capable of achieving efficiencies in the order of 90%.\n\nIn spray drying and dry injection systems, the flue gas must first be cooled to about 10–20 °C above adiabatic saturation to avoid wet solids deposition on downstream equipment and plugging of baghouses.\n\nThe capital, operating and maintenance costs per short ton of removed (in 2001 US dollars) are:\n\n\nAn alternative to removing sulfur from the flue gases after burning is to remove the sulfur from the fuel before or during combustion. Hydrodesulfurization of fuel has been used for treating fuel oils before use. Fluidized bed combustion adds lime to the fuel during combustion. The lime reacts with the SO to form sulfates which become part of the ash.\nThis elemental sulfur is then separated and finally recovered at the end of the process for further usage in, for example, agricultural products. Safety is one of the greatest benefits of this method, as the whole process takes place at atmospheric pressure and ambient temperature. This method has been developed by Paqell, a joint venture between Shell Global Solutions and Paques.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13034", "title": "Geyser", "text": "Geyser\n\nA geyser (, ) is a spring characterized by intermittent discharge of water ejected turbulently and accompanied by steam. As a fairly rare phenomenon, the formation of geysers is due to particular hydrogeological conditions that exist only in a few places on Earth. Generally all geyser field sites are located near active volcanic areas, and the geyser effect is due to the proximity of magma. Generally, surface water works its way down to an average depth of around where it contacts hot rocks. The resultant boiling of the pressurized water results in the geyser effect of hot water and steam spraying out of the geyser's surface vent (a hydrothermal explosion).\n\nA geyser's eruptive activity may change or cease due to ongoing mineral deposition within the geyser plumbing, exchange of functions with nearby hot springs, earthquake influences, and human intervention. Like many other natural phenomena, geysers are not unique to planet Earth. Jet-like eruptions, often referred to as cryogeysers, have been observed on several of the moons of the outer solar system. Due to the low ambient pressures, these eruptions consist of vapor without liquid; they are made more easily visible by particles of dust and ice carried aloft by the gas. Water vapor jets have been observed near the south pole of Saturn's moon Enceladus, while nitrogen eruptions have been observed on Neptune's moon Triton. There are also signs of carbon dioxide eruptions from the southern polar ice cap of Mars. In the latter two cases, instead of being driven by geothermal energy, the eruptions seem to rely on solar heating via a solid-state greenhouse effect.\n\nGeysers are temporary geological features. Geysers are generally associated with volcanic areas. As the water boils, the resulting pressure forces a superheated column of steam and water to the surface through the geyser's internal plumbing. The formation of geysers specifically requires the combination of three geologic conditions that are usually found in volcanic terrain.\n\nThe heat needed for geyser formation comes from magma that needs to be close to the surface of the earth. In order for the heated water to form a geyser, a plumbing system made of fractures, fissures, porous spaces, and sometimes cavities is required. This includes a reservoir to hold the water while it is being heated. Geysers are generally aligned along faults.\n\nGeyser activity, like all hot spring activity, is caused by surface water gradually seeping down through the ground until it meets rock heated by magma. The geothermally heated water then rises back toward the surface by convection through porous and fractured rocks. Geysers differ from non-eruptive hot springs in their subterranean structure; many consist of a small vent at the surface connected to one or more narrow tubes that lead to underground reservoirs of water and pressure tight rock.\n\nAs the geyser fills, the water at the top of the column cools off, but because of the narrowness of the channel, convective cooling of the water in the reservoir is impossible. The cooler water above presses down on the hotter water beneath, not unlike the lid of a pressure cooker, allowing the water in the reservoir to become superheated, i.e. to remain liquid at temperatures well above the standard-pressure boiling point.\n\nUltimately, the temperatures near the bottom of the geyser rise to a point where boiling begins which forces steam bubbles to rise to the top of the column. As they burst through the geyser's vent, some water overflows or splashes out, reducing the weight of the column and thus the pressure on the water below. With this release of pressure, the superheated water flashes into steam, boiling violently throughout the column. The resulting froth of expanding steam and hot water then sprays out of the geyser vent.\n\nA key requirement that enables a geyser to erupt is a material called geyserite found in rocks nearby the geyser. Geyserite—mostly silicon dioxide (SiO), is dissolved from the rocks and gets deposited on the walls of the geyser's plumbing system and on the surface. The deposits make the channels carrying the water up to the surface pressure-tight. This allows the pressure to be carried all the way to the top and not be leaked out into the loose gravel or soil that are normally under the geyser fields.\n\nEventually the water remaining in the geyser cools back to below the boiling point and the eruption ends; heated groundwater begins seeping back into the reservoir, and the whole cycle begins again. The duration of eruptions and time between successive eruptions vary greatly from geyser to geyser; Strokkur in Iceland erupts for a few seconds every few minutes, while Grand Geyser in the United States erupts for up to 10 minutes every 8–12 hours.\n\nThere are two types of geysers: \"fountain geysers\" which erupt from pools of water, typically in a series of intense, even violent, bursts; and \"cone geysers\" which erupt from cones or mounds of siliceous sinter (including geyserite), usually in steady jets that last anywhere from a few seconds to several minutes. Old Faithful, perhaps the best-known geyser at Yellowstone National Park, is an example of a cone geyser. Grand Geyser, the tallest predictable geyser on earth, (although Geysir in Iceland is taller, it is not predictable), also at Yellowstone National Park, is an example of a fountain geyser.\n\nThere are many volcanic areas in the world that have hot springs, mud pots and fumaroles, but very few have erupting geysers. The main reason for their rarity is because multiple intense transient forces must occur simultaneously for a geyser to exist. For example, even when other necessary conditions exist, if the rock structure is loose, eruptions will erode the channels and rapidly destroy any nascent geysers.\n\nAs a result, most geysers form in places where there is volcanic rhyolite rock which dissolves in hot water and forms mineral deposits called siliceous sinter, or geyserite, along the inside of the plumbing systems which are very slender. Over time, these deposits strengthen the channel walls by cementing the rock together tightly, thus enabling the geyser to persist, as mentioned in the previous section.\n\nGeysers are fragile phenomena and if conditions change, they may go dormant or extinct. Many have been destroyed simply by people throwing debris into them while others have ceased to erupt due to dewatering by geothermal power plants. However, the Great Geysir of Iceland has had periods of activity and dormancy. During its long dormant periods, eruptions were sometimes artificially induced—often on special occasions—by the addition of surfactants to the water.\n\nThe specific colours of geysers derive from the fact that despite the apparently harsh conditions, life is often found in them (and also in other hot habitats) in the form of thermophilic prokaryotes. No known eukaryote can survive over .\n\nIn the 1960s, when the research of the biology of geysers first appeared, scientists were generally convinced that no life can survive above around —the upper limit for the survival of cyanobacteria, as the structure of key cellular proteins and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) would be destroyed. The optimal temperature for thermophilic bacteria was placed even lower, around .\n\nHowever, the observations proved that it is actually possible for life to exist at high temperatures and that some bacteria even prefer temperatures higher than the boiling point of water. Dozens of such bacteria are known.\nThermophiles prefer temperatures from , whilst hyperthermophiles grow better at temperatures as high as . As they have heat-stable enzymes that retain their activity even at high temperatures, they have been used as a source of thermostable tools, that are important in medicine and biotechnology, for example in manufacturing antibiotics, plastics, detergents (by the use of heat-stable enzymes lipases, pullulanases and proteases), and fermentation products (for example ethanol is produced). Among these, the first discovered and the most important for biotechnology is \"Thermus aquaticus\".\n\nGeysers are quite rare, requiring a combination of water, heat, and fortuitous plumbing. The combination exists in few places on Earth.\n\nYellowstone is the largest geyser locale, containing thousands of hot springs, and approximately 300 to 500 geysers. It is home to half of the world's total number of geysers in its nine geyser basins. It is located mostly in Wyoming, USA, with small portions in Montana and Idaho. Yellowstone includes the world's tallest active geyser (Steamboat Geyser in Norris Geyser Basin), as well as the renowned Old Faithful Geyser, Beehive Geyser, Giantess Geyser, Lion Geyser, Plume Geyser, Aurum Geyser, Castle Geyser, Sawmill Geyser, Grand Geyser, Oblong Geyser, Giant Geyser, Daisy Geyser, Grotto Geyser, the Fan & Mortar Geysers, & the Riverside Geyser, all in the Upper Geyser Basin which alone contains nearly 180 geysers.\n\nThe Valley of Geysers (\"Dolina Geyzerov\" in Russian) located in the Kamchatka Peninsula of Russia is the only geyser field in Eurasia and the second largest concentration of geysers in the world. The area was discovered and explored by Tatyana Ustinova in 1941. Approximately 200 geysers exist in the area along with many hot-water springs and perpetual spouters. The area was formed due to a vigorous volcanic activity. The peculiar way of eruptions is an important feature of these geysers. Most of the geysers erupt at angles, and only very few have the geyser cones that exist at many other of the world's geyser fields. On June 3, 2007, a massive mudflow influenced two thirds of the valley. It was then reported that a thermal lake was forming above the valley. Few days later, waters were observed to have receded somewhat, exposing some of the submerged features. Velikan Geyser, one of the field's largest, was not buried in the slide and has recently been observed to be active.\n\nThe name \"El Tatio\" comes from the Quechua word for \"oven\". El Tatio is located in the high valleys on the Andes surrounded by many active volcanoes in Chile, South America at around above mean sea level. The valley is home to approximately 80 geysers at present. It became the largest geyser field in the Southern Hemisphere after the destruction of many of the New Zealand geysers, and is the third largest geyser field in the world. The salient feature of these geysers is that the height of their eruptions is very low, the tallest being only high, but with steam columns that can be over high. The average geyser eruption height at El Tatio is about .\n\nThe Taupo Volcanic Zone is located on New Zealand's North Island. It is long by and lies over a subduction zone in the Earth's crust. Mount Ruapehu marks its southwestern end, while the submarine Whakatane volcano ( beyond White Island) is considered its northeastern limit. Many geysers in this zone were destroyed due to geothermal developments and a hydroelectric reservoir, but several dozen geysers still exist. In the beginning of the 20th century, the largest geyser ever known, the Waimangu Geyser existed in this zone. It began erupting in 1900 and erupted periodically for four years until a landslide changed the local water table. Eruptions of Waimangu would typically reach and some superbursts are known to have reached . Recent scientific work indicates that the Earth's crust below the zone may be as little as thick. Beneath this lies a film of magma and .\n\nDue to the high rate of volcanic activity in Iceland, it is home to some famous geysers in the world. Geysers and hot springs are distributed all over the island. Many of the geysers are located in Haukadalur. Geysers are known to have existed in at least a dozen other areas on the island. \"The Great Geysir\", which first erupted in the 14th century, gave rise to the word \"geyser\". By 1896, Geysir was almost dormant before an earthquake that year caused eruptions to begin again, occurring several times a day, but in 1916, eruptions all but ceased. Throughout much of the 20th century, eruptions, usually following earthquakes, did happen from time to time. Some man-made improvements were made to the spring and eruptions were forced with soap on special occasions. Earthquakes in June 2000 subsequently reawakened the giant for a time but it is not currently erupting regularly. The nearby Strokkur geyser erupts every 5–8 minutes to a height of some .\n\nThere used to be two large geysers fields in Nevada—Beowawe and Steamboat Springs—but they were destroyed by the installation of nearby geothermal power plants. At the plants, geothermal drilling reduced the available heat and lowered the local water table to the point that geyser activity could no longer be sustained.\n\nMany of New Zealand’s geysers have been destroyed by humans in the last century. Several New Zealand geysers have also become dormant or extinct by natural means. The main remaining field is Whakarewarewa at Rotorua. Two thirds of the geysers at Orakei Korako were flooded by the Ohakuri hydroelectric dam in 1961. The Wairakei field was lost to a geothermal power plant in 1958. The Taupo Spa field was lost when the Waikato River level was deliberately altered in the 1950s. The Rotomahana field was destroyed by the Mount Tarawera eruption in 1886.\n\nThere are various other types of geysers which are different in nature compared to the normal steam-driven geysers. These geysers differ not only in their style of eruption but also in the cause that makes them erupt.\n\nIn a number of places where there is geothermal activity, wells have been drilled and fitted with impermeable casements that allow them to erupt like geysers. The vents of such geysers are artificial, but are tapped into natural hydrothermal systems. These so-called \"artificial geysers\", technically known as \"erupting geothermal wells\", are not true geysers. Little Old Faithful Geyser, in Calistoga, California, is an example. The geyser erupts from the casing of a well drilled in the late 19th century. According to Dr. John Rinehart in his book \"A Guide to Geyser Gazing\" (1976 p. 49), a man had drilled into the geyser in search for water. He had \"simply opened up a dead geyser\".\n\nThis is a natural hot spring that spouts water constantly without stopping for recharge. Some of these are incorrectly called geysers, but because they are not periodic in nature they are not considered true geysers.\n\nGeysers are used for various activities such as electricity generation, heating and tourism. Many geothermal reserves are found all around the world. The geyser fields in Iceland are some of the most commercially viable geyser locations in the world. Since the 1920s hot water directed from the geysers has been used to heat greenhouses and to grow food that otherwise could not have been cultivated in Iceland's inhospitable climate. Steam and hot water from the geysers has also been used for heating homes since 1943 in Iceland. In 1979 the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) actively promoted development of geothermal energy in the \"Geysers-Calistoga Known Geothermal Resource Area\" (KGRA) near Calistoga, California through a variety of research programs and the Geothermal Loan Guarantee Program. The Department is obligated by law to assess the potential environmental impacts of geothermal development.\n\nThere are several bodies in the Solar System where jet-like eruptions, often termed cryogeysers (\"cryo\" meaning \"icy cold\"), have been observed or are believed to occur. Unlike geysers on Earth, these represent eruptions of volatiles, together with entrained dust or ice particles, without liquid.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4616703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4616703", "title": "Halosere", "text": "Halosere\n\nIn ecology, a halosere is a succession in a saline environment. An example of a halosere is a salt marsh.\n\nIn a river estuary, large amounts of silt are deposited by the ebbing tides and inflowing rivers.\n\nThe earliest plant colonizers are algae and eel grass, which can tolerate submergence by the tide for most of the 12-hour cycle and which trap mud, causing it to accumulate. Two other colonizers are \"Salicornia\" and \"Spartina\", which are halophytes, i.e. plants that can tolerate saline conditions. They grow on the inter-tidal mudflats with a maximum of four hours' exposure to air every 12 hours.\n\n\"Spartina\" has long roots enabling it to trap more mud than the initial colonizing plants and \"Salicornia\", and so on. In most places this becomes dominant vegetation. The initial tidal flats receive new sediments daily, are waterlogged to the exclusion of oxygen, and have a high pH value.\n\nThe sward zone, in contrast, is inhabited by plants that can only tolerate a maximum of four hours submergence every day (24 hours). The dominant species there are sea lavender and other numerous types of grasses.\n\nHowever, although the vegetation there tends to form a thick mat, it is not continuous. Hollows may remain where the seawater becomes trapped elaving, after evaporation, saltpans in which the salinity is too great for plants. As the tide ebbs, water draining off the land may be concentrated into creeks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50338645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50338645", "title": "Hypernuclear Physics", "text": "Hypernuclear Physics\n\nHypernuclear Physics is the science of hypernuclei, or nuclei which fall under the category of hypernucleus, and their constituents and properties. These nuclei are made of baryons which have at least one hyperon, i.e. a three-quark particle having at least one strange quark in them.\n\nThe Hall C and Hall A of JLab, or the US Jefferson National Laboratory, in Newport News, VA, is currently involved among other international laboratories in research on the hypernuclei.\n\nReferences:\n\n"}
{"id": "3004239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3004239", "title": "J. B. Jackson", "text": "J. B. Jackson\n\nJohn Brinckerhoff \"Brinck\" Jackson, J. B. Jackson, (September 25, 1909, Dinard, France – August 28, 1996, La Cienega, NM) was a writer, publisher, instructor, and sketch artist in landscape design. Herbert Muschamp, architecture critic of the \"New York Times,\" stated that J. B. Jackson was \"America's greatest living writer on the forces that have shaped the land this nation occupies.\" He was influential in broadening the perspective on the \"vernacular\" landscape.\n\nBorn in France to American parents, J. B. Jackson spent his early school years with them in Washington, D.C., and in Europe. At age 14 (1923) he was enrolled at the elite Institut Le Rosey in Rolle, Switzerland, where he became fluent in both French and German. He savored an environment of mountains, meadows, and forests, but also absorbed the human face of the Swiss cities and cantons. He would later draw upon his travels abroad in writings, sketches, and watercolors. He attended preparatory schools in New England and spent summers on his uncle's farm in New Mexico. During the height of his career, Jackson lived just southwest of Santa Fe, New Mexico, near an historic property known as \"El Rancho de las Golondrinas\" (The Ranch of the Swallows).\n\nJackson's experiences in college were influential in his approach to the shaping of the landscape. He attended the Experimental College of the University of Wisconsin–Madison. Jackson gained an insight into architecture and planning from the social criticism of Lewis Mumford and Oswald Spengler's revelation in \"Decline of the West\" that \"landscapes reflected the culture of the people that were living there.\"\n\nIn 1929 Jackson entered Harvard. His instructor Irving Babbitt was influential in Jackson's opposition to modernism. Jackson's taste for Baroque style and history began to blossom at this time. He believed that the zest of the Baroque style was the essence of the connection between humankind and nature. While attending Harvard, Jackson wrote articles for the \"Harvard Advocate.\" His career of writing about the landscape began here.\n\nFollowing graduation from Harvard in 1932, Jackson took courses in architecture, writing, and drawing. Each would later serve as the bases for essays, lectures, and articles for his magazine, \"Landscape.\" He wandered through Europe in 1934 to 1935 studying Baroque style. While in Europe, Jackson began to write articles critical of Nazism and published them in \"The American Review\" and \"Harper's.\" His interest in politics began to be expressed in his works. In 1938, his novel, titled \"Saints in Summertime,\" was published. The book revealed the infiltration of Nazism and the soldiers' attraction to energy emanating from power.\n\nAfter briefly trying his hand at ranching in New Mexico, Jackson enlisted in the army, in 1940. As an officer during war, he studied books to gain insight on the geography of the location. He deciphered code, studied maps, and learned the terrain. He read books by French geographers—Pierre Deffontaines, Paul Vidal de la Blache, and Albert Demangeon. It was at this time that he developed his interpretation that the shaping and devastation of the landscape came from the necessities for human existence. Jackson believed that human history brought about human geography. The landscape was the product of humankind's effort to \"recreate heaven on earth\". As the war ended, Jackson began to contemplate publishing a magazine of geography.\n\nIn the spring of 1951, he published the first issue of \"Landscape,\" with the subtitle \"Human Geography of the Southwest;\" this was later dropped. Jackson served as the magazine's publisher and editor until 1968. At first, Jackson argued, quite literally, for a lofty – an airborne – view of the world, reveling in the perspective of aerial photographs. But Jackson's work, which dominated the first five issues of the magazine, was grounded in what he would later call the vernacular: an interest in the commonplace or everyday landscape. Jackson expressed an innate confidence in the ability of people of small means to make significant changes in their surroundings. In an opening essay, \"The Need of Being Versed in Country Things,\" Jackson states that \"It is from the air that the true relationship between the natural and the human landscape is first clearly revealed. The peaks and canyons lose much of their impressiveness when seen from above. What catches our eye and arouses our interest is not the sandy washes and the naked rocks, but the evidences of man.\" His writings allowed him to raise questions and present controversial statements especially in reference to humans and their role in shaping the landscape.\n\nJackson's collected essays have been published in seven books, in addition to \"A Sense of Place, a Sense of Time,\" which won the 1995 PEN prize for essays.\n\nJackson was influential in the lives of many students, colleagues, admirers, and friends. He taught landscape history courses as adjunct professor at Harvard University's Graduate School of Design beginning in 1969 and at the College of Environmental Design and the Department of Geography at the University of California, Berkeley. He ended teaching classes in the late 1970s. Since then he has given lectures, especially on themes pertaining to urban issues. Jackson states that \"We are not spectators; all human landscape is not a work of art.\" He felt strongly that the purpose of landscape is to provide a place for living and working and leisure.\n\nThe Association of American Geographers established a Jackson Prize, to \"reward American geographers who write books about the United States which convey the insights of professional geography in language that is interesting and attractive to a lay audience.\"\n\nAs a scholar, historian and writer, John B. Jackson greatly influenced the development and trajectory of contemporary cultural landscape studies in America. In the introduction to \"Everyday America: Cultural Landscape Studies after J.B. Jackson\" (2003), editors Chris Wilson and Paul Groth note that the term 'cultural landscape' rarely appeared in print prior to the 1950s. But between 1959 and 1990, they note, writers across disciplines have come to realize the importance of the built environment.\n\n\"More surprising,\" they claim, \"was the discovery of everyday built spaces as significant evidence of social groups, power relations and culture by historians, American studies scholars, literary critics, and a growing number of anthropologists, sociologists and social theorists.\" It is a \"way of thinking,\" they continue, with \"inherent contradictions and multiple approaches.\"\n\nThe history of landscape study and, more broadly, place and regional studies, illustrates the convergences with some of the histories here, both across discipline and nation.\nIn the United States a popular fascination with vibrant architecture, communities, and landscapes of everyday America has been expressed by writers ranging from Walt Whitman to Mark Twain, and by painter Winslow Homer through early-twentieth artists of common landscapes. The New Deal writers and painters explored a strong regionalist theme, which was also connected to the architectural and urban criticism of Lewis Mumford. The concern for environmental degradation caused by human activities was another American theme, spurred particularly by the Vermont writer George Perkins Marsh.\n\nComparison of American trends to cultural landscape studies in other places is illuminating. Wilson and Groth write that German cultural landscape studies were primarily based on scientific categorizations of regions and settlements, with strong cross-disciplinary ties to geology and economic analysis. Historical accounts of landscape influenced British cultural studies, but the study of cultural landscapes also was strongly based on field observation and map interpretations. In France, the emphasis on unique culture and geography shaped the field, especially in ideas of \"genre de vie\" (ways of life) and \"pays\" (social regions), ideas that have had particular resonance in American landscape studies. \"By World War II,\" the editors remark, \"each French region had its own well-written guidebooks to local physical and social landscapes\" (4).\n\nGeographer Carl Sauer, who had studied in Germany and had long tenure as the chair of the Geography department at Berkeley, in 1925 wrote the now classic definition of a cultural landscape: \"The cultural landscape is fashioned from the natural landscape by a cultural group. Culture is the agent, the natural area is the medium, and cultural landscape is the result.\"\n\n\"The older I grow and the longer I look at landscapes and seek to understand them, the more convinced I am that their beauty is not simply an aspect but their very essence and that that beauty derives from the human presence.\"\n\n\"Let us hope that the merits and charm of the highway strip are not so obscure but they will be accepted by a wider public.\"\n\n\"The bicycle had, and still has, a humane, almost classical moderation in the kind of pleasure it offers. It is the kind of machine that a Hellenistic Greek might have invented and ridden. It does no violence to our normal reactions: It does not pretend to free us from our normal environment.\"\n\n\"The way a city grows, the direction in which it spreads, is a factor not so much of zoning or real estate activity or land values but of highways.\"\n\n\"Ruins provide the incentive for restoration, and for a return to origins. There has to be an interim of death or rejection before there can be renewal and reform.\"\n\nJackson's published works include:\n\n\nJohn Brinckerhoff Jackson received the PEN/Diamonstein-Spielvogel Award for the Art of the Essay for \"A Sense of Place, a Sense of Time\" in 1995.\n\nJ.B. Jackson received the Silver Star for exemplary service in WWII.\n\n"}
{"id": "26466876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26466876", "title": "Karakoram-West Tibetan Plateau alpine steppe", "text": "Karakoram-West Tibetan Plateau alpine steppe\n\nThe Karakoram-West Tibetan Plateau alpine steppe is a montane grasslands and shrublands ecoregion found in parts of Pakistan, China, Afghanistan, and India.\n\nThe Karakoram-West Tibetan Plateau alpine steppe is an area of high-elevation grasslands covering . It is centered on the Karakoram Range, west of the Himalaya Range. It also includes nearby ranges, such as the Ladakh Range.\n\nThe mean annual precipitation in the ecoregion varies from , 90 percent in the form of snow.\n\nMost of this ecoregion consists of grasslands and herbaceous plants. Protected slopes and ravines contains \"Salix denticulata, Mertensia tibetica, Potentilla desertorum, Juniperus polycarpus, Polygonum viviparum, Berberis pachyacantha, Rosa webbiana\", and \"Spiraea lycoides\". Where vegetation ceases to grow, around , are found \"Delphinium cashmerianum, Glechoma tibetica, Silene longicarpophora, Potentilla fruticosa\", and \"Nepeta\" spp. \n\nShrublands and woodlands are found in valley bottoms. These include \"Hippophae rhamnoides, Myricaria elegans, Salix viminalis, Capparis spinosa, Tribulus terrestris, Pegamum harmala, Sophora alopecuroides\", and \"Lycium ruthenicum\". A few remnant steppe forests of \"Juniperus macropoda\" and \"Juniperus indica\" are still found here.\n\nSheep in this ecoregion include the Marco Polo sheep, Tibetan argali, and urial. Goats include the markhor and ibex. \n\nThe sheep and goats, as well as smaller mammals, make this ecoregion excellent habitat for the snow leopard.\n\nBoth the brown bear and Himalayan black bear are found here. \n\nBird species richness is low. Common birds include Guldenstadt's redstart, Himalayan monal, rosefinches, raptors, and vultures.\n\nMuch of the montane habitat in this ecoregion lies in protected areas. These include\n\n"}
{"id": "90777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90777", "title": "L'inglesou", "text": "L'inglesou\n\nL'inglesou is a loa who lives in the wild areas of Haiti and kills anyone who offends him in Vodou.\n\nHe executes judgment on those who can't keep their word and the Houngan or Mambo who can't keep the Voodoo secrets from the uninitiated ones. Lenglensou is feared and respected by all. He almost never comes in possession, but when he does must be served correctly, otherwise the Houngan or the Mambo will be cruelly punished.\n\nWhen Lenglensou comes in possession he only eats glasses, razor blades and drinks warm bull blood. His color is red and the Sacred Heart of Jesus is the St Catholic image uses to represent this wild spirit. He likes sharp objects such as knives, scissors, barbed wire, razor blades; everything that tear the flesh.\n"}
{"id": "27423727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27423727", "title": "List of Conus species", "text": "List of Conus species\n\nThis list of \"Conus\" species is a listing of species in the genus \"Conus\", a genus of sea snails, specifically cone snails, marine gastropod mollusks in the family Conidae.\n\nFor many years, all of the cone snails were placed in the genus \"Conus\". More recently a large number of species have been moved to other genera.\n\nThis list with about 800 accepted species relies on the taxonomy used in the World Register of Marine Species and the publication in 2015 by Puillandre N., Duda T.F., Meyer C., Olivera B.M. & Bouchet P. (2015). \"One, four or 100 genera? A new classification of the cone snails.\" Journal of Molluscan Studies. 81: 1-23 \n\nSpecies within the genus \"Conus\":\n\n\nThis list is incomplete.\nThis a list of species in \"Conus\" that have a doubtful name (\"nomen dubium\")\n"}
{"id": "11051845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11051845", "title": "List of NGC objects (5001–6000)", "text": "List of NGC objects (5001–6000)\n\nThis is a list of NGC objects 5001–6000 from the New General Catalogue (NGC). The astronomical catalogue is composed mainly of star clusters, nebulae, and galaxies. Other objects in the catalogue can be found in the other subpages of the list of NGC objects.\n\nThe constellation information in these tables is taken from \"The Complete New General Catalogue and Index Catalogue of Nebulae and Star Clusters by J. L. E. Dreyer\", which was accessed using the \"VizieR Service\". Galaxy types are identified using the \"NASA/IPAC Extragalactic Database\". The other data of these tables are from the SIMBAD Astronomical Database unless otherwise stated.\n"}
{"id": "15457826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15457826", "title": "List of North Carolina hurricanes (1950–1979)", "text": "List of North Carolina hurricanes (1950–1979)\n\nThe list of North Carolina hurricanes between 1950 and 1979 encompasses 79 tropical or subtropical cyclones that affected the U.S. state of North Carolina. Collectively, cyclones in North Carolina during that time period resulted in 37 total fatalities during the period, as well as about $3 billion in damage in 2008 USD. A cyclone affected the state in every year during the three decades, and in three seasons a total of five cyclones impacted the state. The strongest hurricane to hit the state during the time period was Hurricane Hazel, which struck the state as a Category 4 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale. Hazel was both the costliest and deadliest cyclone during the period, causing over $1 billion in damage (2008 USD) and 19 deaths. Most storms affected the state in September, though cyclones impacted the state between May and October.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe table lists hurricanes by death tolls. Direct deaths are those that are directly caused by the storm passage, such as drownings or deaths from being struck by windblown objects. Indirect deaths are those that are related to the storm, but not directly from its storm effects.\n\n"}
{"id": "5856512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5856512", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Devon", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Devon\n\nThis is a list of the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in Devon, England, United Kingdom. Natural England formerly English Nature is responsible for designating SSSIs in England, and chooses sites because of their fauna, flora, geological or physiographical features. , there are 211 sites designated in this Area of Search. 71 of the sites are designated for their geological interest, 109 for biological interest and 31 are of interest for both. Eleven of Devon's SSSIs are national nature reserves, sixteen are managed by the Devon Wildlife Trust and three are bird sanctuaries. There are 49 Special Areas of Conservation.\n\nFor other counties, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "47681621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47681621", "title": "List of local nature reserves in Somerset", "text": "List of local nature reserves in Somerset\n\nThe ceremonial county of Somerset consists of a non-metropolitan county, administered by Somerset County Council, which is divided into five districts, and two unitary authorities. The districts of Somerset are West Somerset, South Somerset, Taunton Deane, Mendip and Sedgemoor. The two administratively independent unitary authorities, which were established on 1 April 1996 following the breakup of the County of Avon, are North Somerset and Bath and North East Somerset. These unitary authorities include areas that were once part of Somerset before the creation of Avon in 1974.\n\nLocal nature reserves (LNRs) are designated by local authorities under the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949. The local authority must have a legal control over the site, by owning or leasing it or having an agreement with the owner. LNRs are sites which have a special local interest either biologically or geologically, and local authorities have a duty to care for them. They can apply local bye-laws to manage and protect LNRs.\n\nThere are 40 local nature reserves in Somerset recognised by Natural England. The smallest is Wellington Basins, which covers of small ponds and surrounding grassland and woodland. This provides a habitat for grey wagtail, dipper and reed bunting. The largest, covering , is Weston Woods on Worlebury Hill, which includes Worlebury Camp Iron Age hill fort. The woodland provides a habitat for mammals including deer, badgers, foxes and bats. Birds include woodpeckers, buzzards and treecreepers. Several of the sites are Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI). The list includes sites owned or managed by both Avon Wildlife Trust and Somerset Wildlife Trust.\n\n"}
{"id": "46938509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46938509", "title": "List of mountain peaks of Utah", "text": "List of mountain peaks of Utah\n\nThis article comprises three sortable tables of major mountain peaks of the U.S. State of Utah.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nOf the highest major summits of Utah, Kings Peak exceeds elevation, 14 peaks exceed , and 43 peaks exceed elevation.\n\nOf the most prominent summits of Utah, eight peaks are ultra-prominent summits with more than of topographic prominence and 33 peaks exceed of topographic prominence.\n\nOf the most isolated major summits of Utah, Kings Peak exceeds of topographic isolation and four peaks exceed of topographic isolation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31573147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31573147", "title": "List of mountains in Algeria", "text": "List of mountains in Algeria\n\nThis is a list of mountains in the country of Algeria.\n\n"}
{"id": "54382979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54382979", "title": "List of power stations in Lebanon", "text": "List of power stations in Lebanon\n\nThis page lists all power stations in Lebanon.\n\n"}
{"id": "4602754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4602754", "title": "List of rivers of Serbia", "text": "List of rivers of Serbia\n\nThis is a list of the rivers of Serbia, either those flowing entirely or partially within Serbia proper, or just being a border rivers.\n\nAll rivers in Serbia belong to the drainage basins of three seas: Black Sea, Adriatic Sea or Aegean Sea.\n\nThe largest in area, Black Sea drainage basin, covers an area of 81,261 km or 92% of the territory of Serbia. The entire basin is drained by only one river, the Danube, which flows into the Black Sea. All major rivers in Serbia, like Tisa, Sava, Velika Morava and Drina belong to it.\n\nThe Adriatic Sea drainage basin covers an area of 4,500 km or 5% of territory of Serbia. It comprises the western half of the Kosovo and Metohija and it is mostly drained by one river, the White Drin, which in Albania meets the Black Drin to create the Drin river, which flows into the Adriatic Sea. Smaller portion of it is drained by Crni Kamen-Radika river in the extreme southern region of Gora, which also drains into Black Drin in Macedonia.\n\nThe Aegean Sea basin is the smallest in area, 2,650 km or 3% of the territory of Serbia, and covers the southern parts of Serbia, to the Macedonian and Bulgarian borders. It is drained by three rivers: Lepenac, Pčinja and Dragovištica. The first two flow into the Vardar river in Macedonia, and the third flows into the Struma river in Bulgaria, and both of those rivers flow into the Aegean Sea.\n\nAll three basins meet at the \"Drmanska glava\" peak on the Crnoljeva mountain in central Kosovo, which represents the water divide of Serbia and the major one in the Balkans, as it divides three out of the Balkan's four drainage basins (the fourth being the Ionian Sea).\n\nThe lengths in the table present the overall lengths of the rivers, not just the Serbian parts of the flow. In the first table, rivers over 50 km are listed, including river systems (such as Great Morava) created by confluence of other major rivers; in those cases, the length is given as the total of the river and the longer headstream.\n\nSelected list of shorter rivers is added below the two tables.\n\nSome rivers, historically with different names, are already included in the length of other rivers, but exist as separate rivers in topography or tradition. The most prominent ones are listed below.\n\n"}
{"id": "22863210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22863210", "title": "List of rivers of Venezuela", "text": "List of rivers of Venezuela\n\nThis is a list of rivers in Venezuela.\n\nThis list is arranged by drainage basin, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8591696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591696", "title": "List of stars in Hydrus", "text": "List of stars in Hydrus\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Hydrus, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8591892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591892", "title": "List of stars in Ursa Minor", "text": "List of stars in Ursa Minor\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Ursa Minor, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29261331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29261331", "title": "List of wadis of Yemen", "text": "List of wadis of Yemen\n\nYemen does not have any permanent rivers, but does have numerous wadis, which is an either permanently or intermittently dry riverbed. This is a list of wadis in Yemen.\nThis list is arranged by drainage basin, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29263498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29263498", "title": "List of wadis of the United Arab Emirates", "text": "List of wadis of the United Arab Emirates\n\nThe United Arab Emirates does not have any permanent rivers, but does have wadis, a permanently or intermittently dry riverbed. This is a list of wadis in United Arab Emirates arranged by drainage basin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9833820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9833820", "title": "Lukanga Swamp", "text": "Lukanga Swamp\n\nLukanga Swamp is a major wetland in the Central Province of Zambia, about 50 km west of Kabwe. Its permanently swampy area consists of a roughly circular area with a diameter of 40 to 50 km covering 1850 km, plus roughly 250 km in the mouths of and along rivers discharging into it such as the Lukanga River from the north-east, plus another 500 km either side of the Kafue River to the west and north-west, making 2600 km in total. It contains many lagoons such as Lake Chiposhye and Lake Suye but few large channels, and its average depth is only 1.5 m.\n\nThe permanent swamp is surrounded by a seasonally-inundated floodplain, varying from about 5 to 25 km wide in the south and east, up to 40 km in the north, and reaching the Kafue River and its swamps 25 km to the west and north-west. When the Kafue floods it overflows north-west through the normally dry Mwinuna channel and into the lower Lukanga River, while another channel drains out of the swamp back into the Kafue in the south-west. The Kafue meanders through its own swamps which are up to 10 km wide and extend for 90 km along the river. Numerous short rivers and streams flow into the swamp from the south, east and north, of which the Lukanga is the largest. In the rainy season the floodplains are inundated increasing the area of the wetland to 6000 km, reaching a maximum of 8000 km at the peak flooding of a good rainy season.\n\nThere are several inhabited islands of higher ground which stay dry through the rainy season, mainly in an arc along the western edge of the permanent swamp, such as Chilwa Island and Chiposha Island. In addition the swamp contains floating islands of papyrus which support temporary fishing camps. No seasonal roads or bridges reach into the permanently swampy areas, and only one road crosses any part of the floodplain to any extent, a dry-season road from Kabwe (with a feeder from Mpongwe) going through Mukobwe and Ibondo to a ferry across the Kafue and on to Ngabwe. Two other dirt tracks come from Mumbwa in the south to the river near Mswebe and to the floodplain at Mwanamulambo. Despite its central location in the country, the Lukanga Swamp remains relatively inaccessible and even today government authorities in Kabwe and Lusaka have relatively little knowledge of or effect on the area. \n\nThe inhabitants of villages mainly around the north-east, east and southern floodplain practise traditional methods of fishing in the swamps and farm the edge of the floodplain. There is no commercial fishing of any size, but FAO reported a 1980 estimate of 2600 t for the fish catch, sold in the markets of Lusaka, Kabwe, and the Copperbelt. A more recent report puts the figure at 1,200 t and notes declining catches due to over-fishing.\n\nThere are some smaller commercial farms especially near the Great North Road which passes within 10 km of the floodplain at the south-eastern edge. Several large commercial farms and plantations, some with dry-season irrigation, have been established on the north side of the floodplain.\n\nThe floodplain is classed as the Zambezian flooded grasslands ecoregion, and the surrounding woodland savanna is the Central Zambezian miombo woodlands ecoregion, except on the south-east side which is Zambezian and mopane woodlands ecoregion. Flooded grasslands are considered to be productive and diverse owing to the nutrients brought by the flood and the fact they provide both grazing and aquatic habitats.\n\nThe miombo woodland west of the Kafue River is a game management area stretching as far as Kafue National Park. Lukanga Swamp therefore could be considered a potential extension of that rich wildlife haven.\n\nLukanga Swamp is home to 316 reported bird species. It supports populations of hippopotamus, and crocodile, and is considered an important site for conservation of lechwe, oribi, marsh mongoose, sitatunga, bushbuck, and python. The western side is visited by elephant, buffalo, eland and roan antelope. In 2000 the Department of National Parks and Wildlife Service (NPWS) was reported to be under-resourced in the area and the swamps \"are virtually unprotected, and poaching is excessive\".\n\nDeforestation for charcoal production and for 'slash and burn' and other types of farming is also reported as a major threat to the Lukanga Swamp ecosystem mainly\nbecause it results in erosion of the land, turbidity of the water and siltation. In nearly all areas north-east of the swamp forests have been cleared especially for charcoal production, and land clearing for farming has been extensive on the north-east, east and southern sides of the swamp. Only the western side remains relatively untouched. The development of a tourism industry in the area, which (as has been seen for the national parks) results in greater wildlife conservation efforts, depends on providing access to this part from Mumbwa or Kabwe.\n\nThe nearly circular shape of the main permanent swamp has led to speculation that Lukanga Swamp may be an impact crater (astrobleme) formed by the impact of a meteorite.\nHowever research on the ground in 2002 found no evidence of impact shock in rocks of the area, concluding that the Lukanga Swamp is not an astrobleme. In the absence of other research data the origin of the swamp is unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "21941645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21941645", "title": "Multi-effect Protocol", "text": "Multi-effect Protocol\n\nThe 1999 Gothenburg Protocol to Abate Acidification, Eutrophication and Ground-level Ozone (known as the Multi-effect Protocol or the Gothenburg Protocol) is a multi-pollutant protocol designed to reduce acidification, eutrophication and ground-level ozone by setting emissions ceilings for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds and ammonia to be met by 2010. As of August 2014, the Protocol had been ratified by 26 parties, which includes 25 states and the European Union.\n\nThe Protocol is part of the Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution. The Convention is an international agreement to protect human health and the natural environment from air pollution by control and reduction of air pollution, including long-range transboundary air pollution.\n\nThe geographic scope of the Protocol includes Europe, North America and countries of Eastern Europe, Caucasus and Central Asia (EECCA).\n\nOn May 4, 2012, at a meeting at the United Nations Office at Geneva, the Parties to the Gothenburg Protocol agreed on a substantial number of revisions, most important are the inclusion of commitments of the Parties to further reduce their emissions until 2020. These amendments now need to be ratified by Parties in order to make them binding.\n\nBecause pollutants can be carried many hundreds of kilometres by winds, pollutants emitted in one country may be deposited in other countries. Deposition of pollutants in a country can far exceed the amount of such pollution produced domestically due to pollution arriving from one or more upwind countries.\n\nIn 1976, the environment ministers from the Nordic countries proposed a European convention on transboundary air pollution that emphasized sulphur compounds (Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution (CLRTAP)). After negotiations, 34 countries and the European Commission signed this Convention in 1979 in Geneva. The convention came into force in 1983, and has now been ratified by 47 European countries, two North American countries (Canada and the United States) and Armenia. The CLRTAP now includes eight protocols that identify specific obligations to be taken by Parties.\n\nThe Gothenburg Protocol was signed on 30 November 1999 in Gothenburg, Sweden, to support the CLRTAP. The Gothenburg Protocol entered into force on 17 May 2005.\n\nThe following are the main provisions of the Protocol:\n\nFollowing the revision of the Gothenburg Protocol, to which the Parties agreed in May 2012, Annex 2 will now also contain reduction commitments, expressed as a percentage reduction compared to 2005 emission levels, that Parties should meet in 2020.\n\n\nGuidance documents adopted together with the Protocol provide a range of abatement techniques and economic instruments for the reduction of emissions. Among the specific emission sources, the Protocol establishes NO emission limits for large stationary engines. Emission limits for new stationary sources should be enforced within one year after the date of entry into force of the Protocol for the party in question.\n\n\nThe details of the Protocol are identified in a series of Annexes that address specific pollutants and emission source sectors (e.g. Annex V: \"Limit values for emissions of nitrogen oxides from stationary sources\"). The Annexes typically allow Canada and the United States to participate with different commitments than other Parties to the Protocol. This is due to the different regulatory nature of Canada and the United States versus most European countries.\n\nIn the EU, the Gothenburg protocol is implemented through the National Emission Ceilings (NEC) directive.\n\nOf all the countries that ratified the 1999 Gothenburg Protocol, most are expected to meet their obligations. Progress towards reducing sulphur emissions was greater than the Protocol commitments due to a widespread European shift from coal to natural gas as an industrial fuel in the 1970s and 1980s. As a result, the acidification of forests and lakes was halted in large parts of Europe. Reduction of NO emissions from traffic has less than originally expected. The Protocol required only modest ammonia emission reductions and therefore in most parts of Europe, excess nitrogen deposition will be reduced only by a small percentage.\n\nIt is predicted that the implementation of the Protocol in Europe will reduce sulphur emissions there by at least 63%, NO emissions by 41%, VOC emissions by 40% and ammonia emissions by 17% compared to levels in 1990. In addition, Protocol implementation in Europe will:\n\nAs a result, it is estimated that human life-years lost as a result of the chronic effects of ozone exposure will be about 2,300,000 lower in 2010 than in 1990. In addition, there will be approximately 47,500 fewer premature deaths resulting from ozone and particulate matter in the air. Furthermore, the amount of vegetation exposed to excessive ozone levels will be reduced by 44% from 1990 levels.\n\nHowever, for large parts of Europe, human exposure to particulate matter and ozone will remain higher than recommended by the World Health Organization. In the Benelux, the Po-area, Russia and Ukraine, the health risks will remain higher than for the rest of Europe. The East European countries that did not ratify the Protocol are expected to suffer from increasing air pollution. Because of the great potential for low-cost emission reduction measures in this region, increased related policy efforts are underway for countries such as Russia and Ukraine. Abatement of emissions from shipping and ambitious climate policy measures, offers possibilities to reduce air pollution in EU countries at relatively low costs. Additional concerns include the negative effects from the combustion of biomass and biodiesel on air quality/\n\nIn December 2007, efforts began to revise the Gothenburg Protocol. These revisions were concluded at a meeting of the Parties to the Protocol in Geneva in May 2012. The Parties agreed to include more stringent emission reduction commitments for 2020, including reduction targets for particulate matter (PM). Subsequently, the technical annexes were also amended to update them with improved emission limit values. The protocol now also includes, as the first international agreement between countries, measures addressing short-lived climate forcers, such as black carbon.\n\nThe work to revise the Protocol was coordinated by the Working Group on Strategies and Review and supported by varies technical groups, such as the Expert Group on Techno-Economic Issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "7240194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7240194", "title": "Mysore Dasara", "text": "Mysore Dasara\n\nMysuru Dasara (Kannada: ದಸರಾ ಹಬ್ಬ) is the \"Nadahabba\" (state-festival) of the state of Karnataka in India. It is a 10-day festival, starting with \"Navaratri\" (\"Nava-ratri\" means nine-nights) and the last day being Vijayadashami. The festival is observed on the tenth day in the Hindu calendar month of \"Ashvin\", which typically falls in the Gregorian months of September and October.\n\nThe Hindu festival of Dasara, Navratri and Vijayadashami celebrates the victory of good over evil. It was the day in the Hindu legends when Goddess Chamundeshwari (Durga) killed the demon Mahishasura. Mahishasura is the demon whose slaying by the Goddess gave the city the name Mysuru. The Mysuru tradition celebrates the warriors and the state fighting for the good during this festival, ritually worshipping and displaying the state sword, weapons, elephants, horses along with Hindu Devi goddess in her warrior form (predominantly) as well as the Vishnu avatar Rama. The ceremonies and a major procession is traditionally presided by the king of Mysuru.\n\nThe city of Mysuru has a long tradition of celebrating the Dasara festival with grandeur and pomp to mark the festival. The Dasara festival in Mysuru completed 400th anniversary in year 2010, while evidence suggests the festivities were observed in Karnataka state by the Vijayanagara Empire kings in the 15th century.\n\nThe Dasara festivities began with the Vijayanagar kings as early as the 15th Century. The festival played a historical role in the 14th-century Vijayanagara Empire, where it was called \"Mahanavami\" and the festivities are shown in the relief artwork of the outer wall of the Hazara Rama temple of Hampi. \n\nThe Italian traveller Niccolò de' Conti described the festival's intensity and importance as a grandeur religious and martial event with royal support. The event revered Durga as the warrior goddess (some texts refer to her as Chamundeshwari). The celebrations hosted athletic competitions, singing and dancing, fireworks, a pageantry military parade and charitable giving to the public.\n\nAfter the fall of the Vijayanagar to Deccan Sultanates, these Hindu celebrations came to an end under Muslim rulers. The Wodeyars of Mysore formed a kingdom in Southern parts of the Vijayanagara Empire and continued the Mahanavami (Dasara) festival celebration, a tradition started initially by Raja Wodeyar I (1578-1617 CE) in the year 1610 at Srirangapatna.\n\nThe festivities included a special \"durbar\" (royal assembly). It was during the reign of Krishnaraja Wodeyar III in the year 1805, when the king started the tradition of having a special \"durbar\" in the Mysore Palace during Dasara; which was attended by members of the royal family, special invitees, officials and the masses. After the death of Srikanta Wadiyar in December 2013, this tradition has been continued by placing the \"Pattada Katti\" (royal sword) on the golden throne. The ninth day of Dasara called as \"Mahanavami\" is also an auspicious day on which the royal sword is worshipped and is taken on a procession involving elephants, camels and horses.\n\nThe main attraction of the ten-day Mysore Dasara festival is the Mysore Palace which is illuminated daily with nearly 100,000 light bulbs from 7 pm to 10 pm on all days of the festival. Various cultural and religious programs highlighting the dance, music and culture of the State of Karnataka are performed in front of the illuminated Palace.\n\nOn Vijayadashami, the traditional Dasara procession (locally known as \"Jumboo Savari\") is held on the streets of Mysore city. The main attraction of this procession is the idol of the Goddess Chamundeshwari which is placed on a golden mantapa (which is around 750 kilograms of gold) on the top of a decorated elephant. This idol is worshipped by the royal couple and other invitees before it is taken around in the procession. Colourful tableaux, dance groups, music bands, decorated elephants, horses and camels form a part of the procession which starts from the Mysore Palace and culminates at a place called \"Bannimantap\" where the \"banni\" tree (\"Prosopis spicigera\") is worshipped. According to a legend of the Mahabharata, \"banni\" tree was used by the Pandavas to hide their weapons during their one-year period of \"Agnatavasa\" (living life incognito). Before undertaking any warfare, the kings traditionally worshipped this tree to help them emerge victorious in the war. The Dasara festivities would culminate on the night of Vijayadashami with an event held in the grounds at Bannimantap called as \"Panjina Kavayatthu\" (torch-light parade).\n\nIn Mysore, India, the Vijayadashami Elephant procession during Mysore Dasara is called Jumbo Savari (from the British during their control of Mysore State). The original name to this procession is \"Jumbi Savari\" (\"going to the Shami (Banni) tree\"). Now Goddess Chamundeshwari is taken in procession on an Elephant. But the \"Jumbo\" name is still intact.\n\nAfter the Jamboo Savari, a torchlight parade takes place in the evening at the Bannimantap Parade Grounds.\n\nAnother major attraction during Dasara is the Dasara exhibition which is held in the exhibition grounds opposite to the Mysore Palace. The exhibition was started by the Maharaja of Mysore Chamaraja Wodeyar X in 1880 with the sole aim of introducing timely developments to the people of Mysore. The task of holding the exhibition is now entrusted with the \"Karnataka Exhibition Authority (KEA)\". This exhibition starts during Dasara and goes on till December. Various stalls which sell items like clothes, plastic items, kitchenware, cosmetics and eatables are set up and they attract a significant number of people. A play area containing attractions like a Ferris wheel is also present to provide entertainment to the people. Various Governmental agencies setup stalls to signify the achievements and projects that they have undertaken.\n\nOn all the 10 days of Dasara, various music and dance concerts are held in auditoriums around Mysore city. Musicians and dance groups from all over India are invited to perform on this occasion. Another attraction during Dasara is the \"Kusti Spardhe\" (wrestling-bout) which attracts wrestlers from all around India.\n\n\n \n\n "}
{"id": "43613282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43613282", "title": "Paleogeoscience", "text": "Paleogeoscience\n\nPaleogeosciences are those associated with the past states or processes associated with Earth science or geoscience. Earth science or geoscience is an all-embracing term referring to the fields of science dealing with planet Earth. These studies of earth's history encompass the Biosphere, Cryosphere, Hydrosphere, Atmosphere, and Lithosphere; the Geosphere. One of the most socially prominent facets of the paleogeosciences would be their applications to our changing climate system.\n\nThe term \"Paleogeoscience\" was coined by the \"Collaboration and Cyberinfrastructure for Paleogeosciences\" (C4P) research coordination network (RCN), a \"National Science Foundation EarthCube\" funded project intending to foster collaboration among paleogeoscientists, paleobiologists, bioinformaticists, stratigraphers, geochronologists, geographers, data scientists, and computer scientists with an aim to dramatically improve the application of modern data management approaches, data mining technologies, and computational methods to better analyze data within the paleogeosciences and other domains and disciplines.\n\n\"Paleogeoscience\" is the collective term for geologic studies that pertain to past geological processes. It combines paleoenvironmental and paleobiologial perspectives towards the goal of furthering our understanding of the interactions between life and the earth through time. It encompasses subjects such as \"Paleobiology\", \"Paleoclimatology\", \"Geochemistry\", \"Geochronology\", \"Stratigraphy\", \"Paleobotany\", \"Paleogeography\", and more.\nGoals of paleogeosciences include understanding and recreating the Earth System over time for use in understanding the future of our Earth. It uses tangible data and proxy data.\n\nSee \"Resources\" section for links to catalogs of hundreds of resources for data, software, and sample collections pertaining to many realms of paleogeoscience.\n\nNSF EarthCube Paleogeoscience RCN Catalog of Software Resources\n\nNSF EarthCube Paleogeoscience RCN Catalog of Physical Sample Repository Resources\n\nNSF EarthCube Paleogeoscience RCN Catalog of Database Resources\n\nOGC Catalog Service web service primer and instructions for accessing NSF EarthCube Paleogeoscience RCN Catalogs\n"}
{"id": "18344791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18344791", "title": "Pressure melting point", "text": "Pressure melting point\n\nThe pressure melting point is the temperature at which ice melts at a given pressure. The pressure melting point is nearly a constant 0 °C at pressures above the triple point at 611.7 Pa, where water can exist in only the solid or liquid phases, through atmospheric pressure (100 kPa) until about 10 MPa. With increasing pressure above 10 MPa, the pressure melting point decreases to a minimum of −21.9 °C at 209.9 MPa. Thereafter, the pressure melting point rises rapidly with pressure, passing back through 0 °C at 632.4 MPa.\n\nGlaciers are subject to geothermal heat flux from below and atmospheric warming or cooling from above. As the pressure increases with depth in a glacier from the weight of the ice above, the pressure melting point of ice decreases within bounds, as shown in the diagram. The level where ice can start melting is where the pressure melting point equals the actual temperature. In static equilibrium conditions, this would be the highest level where water can exist in a glacier. It would also be the level of the base of an ice shelf, or the ice-water interface of a subglacial lake.\n"}
{"id": "1818265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818265", "title": "Quantum fluid", "text": "Quantum fluid\n\nA quantum fluid refers to any system that exhibits quantum mechanical effects at the macroscopic level such as superfluids, superconductors, ultracold atoms, etc.\n\nMost matter is either solid or gaseous (at low densities) near absolute zero. However, for the cases of helium-4 and its isotope helium-3, there is a pressure range where they can remain liquid down to absolute zero because the amplitude of the quantum fluctuations experienced by the helium atoms is larger than the inter-atomic distances.\n\nIn the case of solid quantum fluids, it is only a fraction of its electrons or protons that behave like a “fluid”. One prominent example is that of superconductivity where quasi-particles made up of pairs of electrons and a phonon act as bosons which are then capable of collapsing into the ground state to establish a supercurrent with a resistivity near zero. \n\n"}
{"id": "13671305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13671305", "title": "Rattlesnake Mountain (Benton County, Washington)", "text": "Rattlesnake Mountain (Benton County, Washington)\n\nRattlesnake Mountain (Native American name Lalíik meaning \"land above the water\") is a 3,531 ft (1,060 m) windswept treeless sub-alpine ridge overlooking the Hanford nuclear site. Parts of the western slope are privately owned ranchland, while the eastern slope is under the federal protection of the Arid Lands Ecology Reserve, a unit of the Hanford Reach National Monument, managed by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. The mountain is the second highest point in Benton County, with its neighbor Lookout Summit surpassing it by only 98 ft (30 m). \n\nThe highest winds recorded on Rattlesnake were around 150 mph (241 kilometers per hour).\n\nThe Yakama Nation referred to Rattlesnake Mountain as \"Lalíik\", meaning \"land above the water\". Some historians speculate that the origin of the name Lalíik refers to the inundation of the Columbia River Plateau during the Missoula Floods, as Rattlesnake would have been one of the few mountains not completely inundated by flood waters reaching depths of 1200 ft (366 m). Geologists have found glacial erratics on Rattlesnake at heights up to this level. However, there is scant evidence placing human settlements in the area at the time of the floods, 12 to 13 thousand years ago. Lalíik is held sacred by native peoples of the Columbia Plateau, including the Nez Perce, Umatilla, Wanapum, Cayuse, Walla Walla, and Yakama, and remains a spiritual epicenter to this day.\n\nIn 1943, Rattlesnake Mountain was seized by the United States government under eminent domain and became a buffer zone for the nuclear project at the Hanford site. In 1956, US Army installed a Nike Ajax missile base on the southeastern end of the ridge and maintained it until 1960, when it was closed.\n\nThe Rattlesnake Mountain Observatory was established at the summit in 1966, utilizing some of the former missile base infrastructure, and remained there until its relocation near Wallula, WA in 2009. The observatory's main telescope was installed in 1971 and is a 32-inch (0.8-meter) telescope housed inside a 24-foot domed enclosure. This telescope is the largest permanently mounted telescope in Washington State. The telescope was used regularly through the early 1980s, but soon fell into disuse. Due to its location, renovations and upgrades were done to allow for remote control. Observatory operations are directed by a local nonprofit group founded by scientists and engineers from the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory at Hanford.\n\nIt was announced 14 March 2008 that the Department of Energy would not renew the permit, license or easements for the observatory or most of the other entities that maintain communication equipment on the mountain. DOE instead intends to return the area to its natural conditions, citing the cultural sensitivity of the area. The removal of the observatory from Rattlesnake Mountain began in the latter part of May, 2009. Most of the work, including the removal of the telescope itself, was completed in June of the same year. In late 2012, the telescope moved into its new home in the hills near Wallula, WA\n\nSection 3081, \"Ensuring public access to the summit of Rattlesnake Mountain in the Hanford Reach National Monument\", of the Carl Levin and Howard P. “Buck” McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (H.R. 3979 (113th)) directs the Secretary of the Interior to provide public access (including motorized access) to the summit of Rattlesnake Mountain in the Hanford Reach National Monument in the state of Washington. This law was enacted — Signed by the President on Dec 19, 2014. The provision is supposed to help with tourism and scientific undertakings. The Native American community has objected to this action. Public access is expected to begin in Fall of 2019.\n\nRattlesnake Mountain is often described as the tallest treeless mountain in the world, but this claim appears to be without foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1430592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1430592", "title": "Rex Nemorensis", "text": "Rex Nemorensis\n\nThe rex Nemorensis (Latin, \"king of Nemi\" or \"king of the Grove\") was a priest of the goddess Diana at Aricia in Italy, by the shores of Lake Nemi, where she was known as Diana Nemorensis. The priesthood played a major role in the mythography of James George Frazer in \"The Golden Bough\"; his interpretation has exerted a lasting influence.\n\nThe tale of the \"rex Nemorensis\" appears in a number of ancient sources. Ovid gives a poetic account of the priesthood of Nemi in his \"Fasti\", Book 3, 271 (on the month of March), noting that the lake of Nemi was \"sacred to antique religion\", and that the priest who dwelt there \"holds his reign by strong hands and fleet feet, and dies according to the example he set himself.\" The Latin name of the priesthood is given by Suetonius: \"He <nowiki>[</nowiki>Caligula<nowiki>]</nowiki> caused the \"rex Nemorensis\", who had held his priesthood for many years, to be supplanted by a stronger adversary.\" That same passage indicates that by the time of the early Principate, the custom of succession in the office by combat had become subject to outside control.\n\nThe Greek geographer Strabo also mentions the institution: \"and in fact a barbaric, and Scythian, element predominates in the sacred usages, for the people set up as priest merely a run-away slave who has slain with his own hand the man previously consecrated to that office; accordingly the priest is always armed with a sword, looking around for the attacks, and ready to defend himself.\"\n\nPausanias gives an etiological myth on the founding of the shrine:\n\nIn Roman mythology, Hippolytus was deified as the god Virbius; Artemis was the Greek name of the goddess identified with the Roman Diana. A possible allusion to the origins of the priesthood at Nemi is contained in Vergil's \"Aeneid\", as Virgil places Hippolytus at the grove of Aricia.\n\nAn alternative story has the worship of Diana at Nemi instituted by Orestes; the flight of the slave represents the flight of Orestes into exile.\n\nSurviving lore concerning the \"rex Nemorensis\" indicates that this priest or king held a very uneasy position. Macaulay's quatrain on the institution of the \"rex Nemorensis\" states:\nThis is, in a nutshell, the surviving legend of the \"rex Nemorensis\": the priesthood of Diana at Nemi was held by a person who obtained that honour by slaying the prior incumbent in a trial by combat, and who could remain at the post only so long as he successfully defended his position against all challengers. However, a successful candidate had first to test his mettle by plucking a golden bough from one of the trees in the sacred grove.\n\nThe human sacrifice conducted at Nemi was thought to be highly unusual by the ancients. Suetonius mentions it as an example of the moral failings of Caligula. Strabo calls it \"Scythian\", implying that he found it barbaric. The violent character of this singular institution could barely be justified by reference to its great antiquity and mythological sanctity. The ancient sources also appear to concur that an escaped slave who seeks refuge in this uneasy office is likely to be a desperate man.\n\nJames George Frazer, in his seminal work \"The Golden Bough\", argued that the tale of the priesthood of Nemi was an instance of a worldwide myth of a sacred king who must periodically die as part of a regular fertility rite. \n\nIn 1990, a radio programme entitled \"The Priest of Nemi\" was produced by Michael Bakewell and broadcast on BBC Radio 3. This programme was based on\nthe 1990 book \"The Making of the Golden Bough\" by Robert Fraser, which was written to mark the centenary of the first edition of Frazer's book.\n\nThe novel \"Nemorensis\", by Simon Spurrier (set in the universe of the MMORPG), is based on the legend.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849210", "title": "Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago", "text": "Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago\n\nThe Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago ( ) is a group of 15 small islets and rocks in the central equatorial Atlantic Ocean. It lies in the Intertropical Convergence Zone, a region of the Atlantic characterized by low average winds punctuated with local thunderstorms. It lies approximately from the nearest point of mainland South America (the northeastern Brazilian coastal town of Touros); northeast of the archipelago of Fernando de Noronha; from the city of Natal; and from the west coast of Africa. Administratively, the archipelago belongs to Brazil and is part of the special \"state district\" () of Fernando de Noronha, in the state of Pernambuco, in spite of the very large distance between the two island groups and the even larger distance to the state mainland.\n\nThe islets expose serpentinized abyssal mantle peridotite and kaersutite-bearing ultramafic mylonite atop the world's highest and yet only second largest megamullion (after the Parece Vela megamullion under Okinotorishima in the Pacific Ocean). This grouping is the sole location in the Atlantic Ocean where the abyssal mantle is exposed above sea level.\n\nIn 1986, the archipelago was designated an environmentally protected area. \nThis is now part of the Fernando de Noronha Environmental Protection Area.\nSince 1998, the Brazilian Navy has maintained a permanently manned research facility on the islands. \nThe main economic activity around the islets is tuna fishing.\n\nOn April 20, 1511, a Portuguese Navy fleet composed of six caravels under the command of Captain Garcia de Noronha discovered the islets by accident while on their journey to India. While navigating in open sea at late night, the \"Saint Peter\" caravel, under the command of Captain Manuel de Castro Alcoforado, crashed against the islets. The crew was rescued by the \"Saint Paul\" caravel, forming the name given to the islets.\n\nOn the morning of February 16, 1832, the rocks were visited by Charles Darwin on the first leg of his voyage on HMS \"Beagle\" around the world. Darwin listed all the fauna he could find; noting that not a single plant or even a lichen could be found on the island. Darwin found two birds, a booby and a noddy, a large crab that stole the fish intended for baby birds, a fly that lived on the booby and a parasitic tick. He found a moth that lived on feathers, a beetle, a woodlouse that lived on dung, and numerous spiders that he thought lived on scavengers of the waterfowl. Darwin felt that these rocks represented how life first took hold on a newly formed outcrop. Darwin was correct in noting that, unusually, these small islands were not volcanic, but were instead formed by a geologic uplift. Darwin's account formed the basis of a fictionalized episode in Patrick O'Brian's historical novel \"HMS Surprise\", when the naturalist Stephen Maturin is briefly marooned and survives by drinking fouled rainwater and the blood of boobies.\n\nThe then called “St. Paul's Rocks” were visited by James Clark Ross on 29 November 1839. He was in charge of an expedition to the Antarctic regions with two vessels, HMS \"Erebus\" and HMS \"Terror\". Robert McCormick gave some geological and biological remarks on St. Paul's Rocks in the report on the expedition.\n\nAnother famous person to visit the rocks was Ernest Shackleton, on his last expedition to Antarctica (1921–1922).\n\nIn 1942, during World War II, the islets were declared to be part of the Federal Territory of Fernando de Noronha (which also included the Rocas Atoll).\n\nIn early 1960, the rocks served as the starting-point and terminus for the first submerged circumnavigation of the world by the American nuclear-powered submarine .\n\nOn June 25, 1998, the Brazilian Navy inaugurated the Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago Scientific Station (; ECASPSP). The station is manned with four researchers, who are rotated in and out every 15 days. By maintaining permanent occupation of the archipelago, the Brazilian Navy extends Brazil's Exclusive Economic Zone, territorial waters and airspace into the North Atlantic Ocean.\n\nOn June 5–6, 2006, an earthquake with a magnitude of above six on the Richter magnitude scale rocked the archipelago. The strong tidal surge following the earthquake caused the battery compartment to crash against the station's outer wall, allowing sea water to flood the station. The four researchers who were on the archipelago took shelter in the lighthouse, while maintaining constant contact with the Brazilian Navy. A fishing vessel located nearby rescued the researchers, who were then transferred to a Brazilian Navy patrol boat. The incident caused considerable damage to the station and equipment. The station was repaired on September 9–11, 2006, and became operational shortly after.\n\nIn 2007, the Brazilian Navy started to build a new scientific station on the archipelago. Construction began on July 24, 2007, and was completed on June 25, 2008. The new station was built with seismic isolation, and is considerably larger and better equipped than the previous one. The station is composed of a main building - equipped with reverse osmosis salt water desalination system, photovoltaics system and satellite communications system; deposits and a mooring dock.\n\nThe Brazilian Navy also maintains a lighthouse on the archipelago, (ARLHS: SPP-001), built in 1995 to replace a previous one from 1930.\n\nOn June 1, 2009, Air France Flight 447, an Airbus A330-200 jetliner \"en route\" from Rio de Janeiro to Paris with 228 persons on board crashed on the Atlantic Ocean relatively close to the Saint Peter and Saint Paul Archipelago, killing all its occupants. Bodies and fragments from the aircraft were found near the archipelago.\n\nThe Saint Peter and Saint Paul Rocks are situated in the Atlantic Ocean, north of the Equator and are the only group of Brazilian oceanic islets in the Northern Hemisphere. The nearest point in the Brazilian coast, is Cabo do Calcanhar, Rio Grande do Norte, approximately from the archipelago. The total emerged area is about and the maximum land elevation is , on Nordeste Island. The archipelago is composed of several rocks, five small rocky islets and four larger islets:\n\n\nTheir base is over below sea level.\n\nNone of the islets has a permanent fresh water supply available.\n\nOnly the largest of the islets, Belmonte, is vegetated with mosses and grasses. The other rocks are mostly barren, except for some sea algae and fungi that can tolerate the salt spray. The rocks are inhabited by seabirds, including the brown booby (\"Sula leucogaster\"), brown noddy (\"Anous stolidus\"), and black noddy (\"Anous minutus\"), as well as crabs (\"Grapsus grapsus\"), insects and spiders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28011973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28011973", "title": "Saudi-OSCAR 50", "text": "Saudi-OSCAR 50\n\nSaudi-OSCAR 50 is a Saudi Arabian amateur radio satellite that was launched on by the King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology.\n\nSO-50 carries several experiments, including an amateur radio repeater experiment. The transponder receives on 145.850 MHz FM and retransmits on 436.795 MHz. The transponder is available to amateurs worldwide as power permits. The receiver has a sensitivity of -124 dBm, having a bandwidth of 15 kHz. The receive antenna is a 1/4 wave vertical mounted in the top corner of the spacecraft. The receive audio is filtered and conditioned then gated in the control electronics prior to feeding it to the 250 mW UHF transmitter. The downlink antenna is a 1/4 wave mounted in the bottom corner of the spacecraft and canted at 45 degrees inward.\n"}
{"id": "3026049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3026049", "title": "Sina-1", "text": "Sina-1\n\nSina-1 () is the first Iranian artificial satellite, launched at 6:52 UTC October 28, 2005 on board a Cosmos-3M Russian launch vehicle from the Plesetsk Cosmodrome. The rocket was also carrying a Russian military Mozhayets-5 satellite, a Chinese China-DMC, a British Topsat, a European Space Agency SSETI Express, a Norwegian nCube, a German UWE-1 and a Japanese XI-V. Sina-1 Satellite Catalog Number or USSPACECOM object number is 28893 .\n\nIn 2003, then-Defense Minister Admiral Ali Shamkhani announced that Iran would launch its first satellite on a locally produced launch vehicle within eighteen months. The plan was to develop a booster based on the Shahab-3 medium-range ballistic missile.\n\nWhen difficulties arose with indigenous booster development, the Iranian Institute of Applied Research turned to the Omsk-based Russian company Polyot for both the launch services and \"Sina-1\", for which $8 million USD was paid.\n\nThe Iranian Space Agency had for many years said they were on the verge of sending their first satellite into orbit, finally leading to the launch of \"Sina-1\", a satellite for telecommunications and research purposes.\n\nThe miniaturized 160-kilogram reconnaissance satellite was put into a sun synchronous near-polar orbit and will image the surface with a 50m (pan) with 50 km swath and 250m resolution of MSS with 500 km swath resolution.\n\nIran has plans for the construction of five more Iranian satellites of which three are scheduled to be launched over the next three years. In July 2005, Iran's Deputy Telecom Minister Ahmad Talebzadeh said that Iran's next satellite, \"Mesbah\", is ready for launch.\n\n\"Mesbah\", similar to \"Sina-1\", is a reconnaissance satellite which will be used to monitor natural phenomena on Iran's territory. This satellite will most likely be launched on an indigenous rocket.\n\nIranian officials were originally going to use the recently cancelled Shahab-4 missile to carry out the process of launching satellites into space. Instead, IRIS, an advanced model of the Ghadr-110 IRBM missile, will be used. \n\nIn January 2005, Iran and a Russian firm sealed a $132 million deal to build a telecommunication satellite called Zohreh (\"Venus\"). The launch of Zohreh is planned in the next two years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "250438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250438", "title": "Slag", "text": "Slag\n\nSlag is the glass-like by-product left over after a desired metal has been separated (i.e., smelted) from its raw ore. Slag is usually a mixture of metal oxides and silicon dioxide. However, slags can contain metal sulfides and elemental metals. While slags are generally used to remove waste in metal smelting, they can also serve other purposes, such as assisting in the temperature control of the smelting, and minimizing any re-oxidation of the final liquid metal product before the molten metal is removed from the furnace and used to make solid metal.\n\nIn nature, iron, copper, lead, nickel and other metals are found in impure states called ores, often oxidized and mixed in with silicates of other metals. During smelting, when the ore is exposed to high temperatures, these impurities are separated from the molten metal and can be removed. Slag is the collection of compounds that are removed. In many smelting processes, oxides are introduced to control the slag chemistry, assisting in the removal of impurities and protecting the furnace refractory lining from excessive wear. In this case, the slag is termed \"synthetic\". A good example is steelmaking slag: quicklime and magnesite are introduced for refractory protection, neutralising the alumina and silica separated from the metal, and assist in the removal of sulfur and phosphorus from the steel.\nFerrous and non-ferrous smelting processes produce different slags. The smelting of copper and lead in non-ferrous smelting, for instance, is designed to remove the iron and silica that often occurs with those ores, and separates them as iron-silicate-based slags. Slag from steel mills in ferrous smelting, on the other hand, is designed to minimize iron loss and so mainly contains oxides of calcium, silicon, magnesium, and aluminium. Any sandy component or quartz component of the original ore automatically carries through the smelting process as silicon dioxide.\n\nAs the slag is channeled out of the furnace, water is poured over it. This rapid cooling, often from a temperature of around , is the start of the granulating process. This process causes several chemical reactions to take place within the slag, and gives the material its cementitious properties.\n\nThe water carries the slag in its slurry format to a large agitation tank, from where it is pumped along a piping system into a number of gravel based filter beds. The filter beds then retain the slag granules, while the water drains away and is returned to the system.\n\nWhen the filtering process is complete, the remaining slag granules, which now give the appearance of coarse beach sand, can be scooped out of the filter bed and transferred to the grinding facility where they are ground into particles that are finer than Portland cement.\n\nDuring the Bronze Age of the Mediterranean there were a vast number of differential metallurgical processes in use. A slag by-product of such workings was a colorful, glassy, vitreous material found on the surfaces of slag from ancient copper foundries. It was primarily blue or green and was formerly chipped away and melted down to make glassware products and jewelry. It was also ground into powder to add to glazes for use in ceramics. Some of the earliest such uses for the by-products of slag have been found in ancient Egypt.\n\nHistorically, the re-smelting of iron ore slag was common practice, as improved smelting techniques permitted greater iron yields—in some cases exceeding that which was originally achieved. During the early 20th century, iron ore slag was also ground to a powder and used to make agate glass, also known as slag glass.\n\nGround granulated slag is often used in concrete in combination with Portland cement as part of a blended cement. Ground granulated slag reacts with water to produce cementitious properties. Concrete containing ground granulated slag develops strength over a longer period, leading to reduced permeability and better durability. Since the unit volume of Portland cement is reduced, this concrete is less vulnerable to alkali-silica and sulfate attack.\n\nThis previously unwanted recycled product is used in the manufacture of high-performance concretes, especially those used in the construction of bridges and coastal features, where its low permeability and greater resistance to chlorides and sulfates can help to reduce corrosive action and deterioration of the structure. The slag can also be used to create fibers used as an insulation material called \"slag wool\".\n\nBasic slag is a co-product of steelmaking, and is typically produced either through the blast furnace - oxygen converter route or the electric arc furnace - ladle furnace route. To flux the silica produced during steelmaking, limestone and/or dolomite are added, as well as other types of slag conditioners such as calcium aluminate or fluorspar. The major components of these slags therefore include the oxides of calcium, magnesium, silicon, iron, and aluminum, with lesser amounts of manganese, phosphorus, and others depending on the specifics of the raw materials used.\n\nBecause of the slowly released phosphate content in phosphorus-containing slag, and because of its liming effect, it is valued as fertilizer in gardens and farms in steel making areas. However, the most important application is construction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20160538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20160538", "title": "Spruce-pine-fir", "text": "Spruce-pine-fir\n\nSpruce-pine-fir (SPF), which refers to the spruce, pine and fir tree species, refers to Canadian softwoods of similar characteristics that have been grouped due to their similar physical and mechanical properties.\nSPF is used to make dimensional lumber for home building and panel as well as in engineered wood products such as plywood, oriented strand board, laminated veneer lumber, glued laminated timber and cross laminated timber.\nSPF wood has moderate strength, is worked easily, takes paint readily, and holds nails well. They are white to pale yellow in color. There are two types of SPF woods:\n\n\nThe lodgepole pine forests of British Columbia, particularly in the Interior are currently suffering from a massive infestation of the mountain pine beetle.\n\nWestern SPF is the primary deliverable species of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange lumber contract.\n\nIn many cases SPF is used in contrast to other species of wood used for different purposes, such as southern yellow pine (SYP) or poplar.\n"}
{"id": "172653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172653", "title": "Stratopause", "text": "Stratopause\n\nThe stratopause (formerly Mesopeak) is the level of the atmosphere which is the boundary between two layers: the stratosphere and the mesosphere. In the stratosphere the temperature increases with altitude, and the stratopause is the region where a maximum in the temperature occurs.\nThis atmospheric feature is not only associated with Earth: it occurs on any other planet or moon that has an atmosphere as well.\n\nOn Earth, the stratopause is high above the Earth's surface. The atmospheric pressure is around 1/1000 of the pressure at sea level. The temperature in the stratopause is -15 degrees Celsius (5 degrees Fahrenheit).\n\n"}
{"id": "5284746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5284746", "title": "Sustainable city", "text": "Sustainable city\n\nSustainable cities, urban sustainability, or eco-city (also \"ecocity\") is a city designed with consideration for social, economic, environmental impact , and resilient habitat for existing populations, without compromising the ability of future generations to experience the same. These cities are inhabited by people whom are dedicated towards minimization of required inputs of energy, water, food, waste, output of heat, air pollution - CO, methane, and water pollution. Richard Register first coined the term \"ecocity\" in his 1987 book, \"Eco city Berkeley: Building Cities for a Healthy Future\". Other leading figures who envisioned the sustainable city are architect Paul F Downton, who later founded the company Ecopolis Pty Ltd, as well as authors Timothy Beatley and Steffen Lehmann, who have written extensively on the subject. The field of industrial ecology is sometimes used in planning these cities.\n\nThere remains no completely agreed upon definition for what a sustainable city should be or completely agreed upon paradigm for what components should be included. Generally, developmental experts agree that a sustainable city should meet the needs of the present without sacrificing the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. The ambiguity within this idea leads to a great deal of variation in terms of how cities carry out their attempts to become sustainable.\n\nIdeally, a sustainable city creates an enduring way of life across the four domains of ecology, economics, politics and culture. However, minimally a sustainable city should firstly be able to feed itself with a sustainable reliance on the surrounding countryside. Secondly, it should be able to power itself with renewable sources of energy. The core of this is to create the smallest conceivable ecological footprint, while producing the lowest quantity of pollution achievable. All while efficiently using the land; composting used materials, and recycling or converting waste-to-energy. All of these contributions will lead to the city's overall impacts on climate change to be minimal and with as little impact. The Adelaide City Council states that socially sustainable cities should be equitable, diverse, connected, and democratic and provide a good quality of life. \n\nA sustainable city can feed itself with minimal reliance on the surrounding countryside, and power itself with renewable sources of energy. The crux of this is to create the smallest possible ecological footprint, and to produce the lowest quantity of pollution possible, to efficiently use land; compost used materials, recycle it or convert waste-to-energy, and thus the city's overall contribution to climate change will be minimal, if such practices are adhered to. \n\nIt is estimated that over 50% of the world’s population now lives in cities and urban areas. These large communities provide both challenges and opportunities for environmentally-conscious developers. There are distinct advantages to further defining and working towards the goals of sustainable cities. Humans are social creatures and thrive in urban spaces that foster social connections. Richard Florida, an urban studies theorist, focuses on the social impact of sustainable cities and states that cities need to be more than a competitive business climate; they need to be a great people climate that appeals to individuals and families of all types. Because of this, a shift to more dense, urban living would provide an outlet for social interaction and conditions under which humans can prosper. These types of urban areas would also promote the use of public transit, walkability and biking which would benefit citizens health wise but also be environmentally beneficial.\n\nContrary to common belief, urban systems can be more environmentally sustainable than rural or suburban living. With people and resource located so close to one another it is possible to save energy for transportation and mass transit systems, and resources such as food. Cities benefit the economy by locating human capital in one relatively small geographic area where ideas can be generated. Having a more dense, urban space would also increase people's efficiency since they wouldn't have to spend as much time commuting to places if resources are located close together, which in turn would benefit the economy since people can use this extra time on other matters; like work.\n\nThese ecological cities are achieved through various means, such as:\n\nBuildings provide the infrastructure for a functioning city and allow for many opportunities to demonstrate a commitment to sustainability. A commitment to sustainable architecture encompasses all phases of building including the planning, building, and restructuring. Sustainable Site Initiatives is used by landscape architects, designers, engineers, architects, developers, policy-makers and others to align land development and management with innovative sustainable design.\n\nThe purpose of an eco-industrial park is to connect a number of firms and organizations to work together to decrease their environmental impact while simultaneously improving their economic performance. The community of businesses accomplishes this goal through collaboration in managing environmental and resource issues, such as energy, water, and materials. The components for building an eco-industrial park include natural systems, more efficient use of energy, and more efficient material and water flows Industrial parks should be built to fit into their natural settings in order to reduce environmental impacts, which can be accomplished through plant design, landscaping, and choice of materials. For instance, there is an industrial park in Michigan built by Phoenix Designs that is made almost entirely from recycled materials. The landscaping of the building will include native trees, grasses, and flowers, and the landscaping design will also act as climate shelter for the facility. In choosing the materials for building an eco-industrial park, designers must consider the life-cycle analysis of each medium that goes into the building to assess their true impact on the environment and to ensure that they are using it from one plant to another, steam connections from firms to provide heating for homes in the area, and using renewable energy such as wind and solar power. In terms of material flows, the companies in an eco-industrial park may have common waste treatment facilities, a means for transporting by-products from one plant to another, or anchoring the park around resource recovery companies that are recruited to the location or started from scratch. To create more efficient water flows in industrial parks, the processed water from one plant can be reused by another plant and the parks infrastructure can include a way to collect and reuse storm water runoff.\n\nSee also: Urban Agriculture\n\nUrban farming is the process of growing and distributing food, as well as raising animals, in and around a city or in urban area. According to the RUAF Foundation, urban farming is different from rural agriculture because \"it is integrated into the urban economic and ecological system: urban agriculture is embedded in -and interacting with- the urban ecosystem. Such linkages include the use of urban residents as labourers, use of typical urban resources (like organic waste as compost and urban wastewater for irrigation), direct links with urban consumers, direct impacts on urban ecology (positive and negative), being part of the urban food system, competing for land with other urban functions, being influenced by urban policies and plans, etc.\" There are many motivations behind urban agriculture, but in the context of creating a sustainable city, this method of food cultivation saves energy in food transportation and saves costs. In order for urban farming to be a successful method of sustainable food growth, cities must allot a common area for community gardens or farms, as well as a common area for a farmers market in which the foodstuffs grown within the city can be sold to the residents of the urban system.\nBerms of fava beans have been planted at Hayes Valley Farm, a community-built farm on the former Central freeway ramps of San Francisco.\n\nMany cities are currently in a shift from the suburban sprawl model of development to a return to urban dense living. This shift in geographic distribution of population leads to a denser core of city residents. These residents provide a growing demand in many sectors that is reflected in the architectural fabric of the city. This new demand can be supplied by new construction or historic rehabilitation. Sustainable cities will opt for historical rehabilitation wherever possible. Having people live in higher densities not only gives economies of scale but also allows for infrastructure to be more efficient.\n\nWalkable urbanism is a development strategy in opposition to suburban sprawl. It advocates housing for a diverse population, a full mix of uses, walkable streets, positive public space, integrated civic and commercial centers, transit orientation and accessible open space. It also advocates for density and accessibility of commercial and government activity.\n\nThe most clearly defined form of walkable urbanism is known as the Charter of New Urbanism. It is an approach for successfully reducing environmental impacts by altering the built environment to create and preserve smart cities which support sustainable transport. Residents in compact urban neighborhoods drive fewer miles, and have significantly lower environmental impacts across a range of measures, compared with those living in sprawling suburbs. The concept of circular flow land use management has also been introduced in Europe to promote sustainable land use patterns that strive for compact cities and a reduction of greenfield land taken by urban sprawl.\n\nIn sustainable architecture the recent movement of New Classical Architecture promotes a sustainable approach towards construction, that appreciates and develops smart growth, walkability, architectural tradition and classical design. This in contrast to modernist and globally uniform architecture, as well as opposing solitary housing estates and suburban sprawl. Both trends started in the 1980s.\n\nMain article: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design\n\nThe Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Green Building Rating System® encourages and accelerates global adoption of sustainable green building and development practices through the creation and implementation of universally understood and accepted tools and performance criteria.\n\nLEED, or Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, is an internationally recognized green building certification system. LEED recognizes whole building sustainable design by identifying key areas of excellence including: Sustainable Sites, Water Efficiency, Energy and Atmosphere, Materials and Resources, Indoor Environmental Quality, Locations & Linkages, Awareness and Education, Innovation in Design, Regional Priority. In order for a building to become LEED certified sustainability needs to be prioritized in design, construction, and use. One example of sustainable design would be including a certified wood like bamboo. Bamboo is fast growing and has an incredible replacement rate after being harvested. By far the most credits are rewarded for optimizing energy performance. This promotes innovative thinking about alternative forms of energy and encourages increased efficiency.\n\nSustainable Sites Initiative, a combined effort of the American Society of Landscape Architects, The Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center at The University of Texas at Austin, and the United States Botanic Garden, is a voluntary national guideline and performance benchmark for sustainable land design, construction and maintenance practices. The building principles of SSI are to design with nature and culture, use a decision-making hierarchy of preservation, conservation, and regeneration, use a system thinking approach, provide regenerative systems, support a living process, use a collaborative and ethical approach, maintain integrity in leadership and research, and finally foster environmental stewardship. All of these help promote solutions to common environmental issues such as greenhouse gases, urban climate issues, water pollution and waste, energy consumption, and health and wellbeing of site users. The main focus is hydrology, soils, vegetation, materials, and human health and well being.\n\nIn SSI, the main goal for hydrology in sites is to protect and restore existing hydrologic functions. To design storm water features to be accessible to site users, and manage and clean water on site. For site design of soil and vegetationmany steps can be done during the construction process to help minimize the urban heat island effects, to and minimize the building heating requirements by using plants.\n\nAs major focus of the sustainable cities, sustainable transportation attempts to reduce a city’s reliance and use of greenhouse emitting gases by utilizing eco friendly urban planning, low environmental impact vehicles, and residential proximity to create an urban center that has greater environmental responsibility and social equity.\n\nDue to the significant impact that transportation services have on a city’s energy consumption, the last decade has seen an increasing emphasis on sustainable transportation by developmental experts. Currently, transportation systems account for nearly a quarter of the world’s energy consumption and carbon dioxide emission. In order to reduce the environmental impact caused by transportation in metropolitan areas, sustainable transportation has three widely agreed upon pillars that it utilizes to create more healthy and productive urban centers.\n\nThe Carbon Trust states that there are three main ways cities can innovate to make transport more sustainable without increasing journey times - better land use planning, modal shift to encourage people to choose more efficient forms of transport, and making existing transport modes more efficient.\n\nThe concept of car free cities or a city with large pedestrian areas is often part of the design of a sustainable city. A large part of the carbon footprint of a city is generated by cars so the car free concept is often considered an integral part of the design of a sustainable city.\n\nCreated by eco friendly urban planning, the concept of urban proximity is an essential element of current and future sustainable transportation systems. This requires that cities be built and added onto with appropriate population and landmark density so that destinations are reached with reduced time in transit. This reduced time in transit allows for reduced fuel expenditure and also opens the door to alternative means of transportation such as bike riding and walking.\nTransportation in downtown Chicago\nFurthermore, close proximity of residents and major landmarks allows for the creation of efficient public transportation by eliminating long sprawled out routes and reducing commute time. This in turn decreases the social cost to residents who choose to live in these cities by allowing them more time with families and friends instead by eliminating part of their commute time.\n\nSee also: Compact city and Pocket neighborhood\n\nSustainable transportation emphasizes the use of a diversity of fuel-efficient transportation vehicles in order to reduce greenhouse emissions and diversity fuel demand. Due to the increasingly expensive and volatile cost of energy, this strategy has become very important because it allows a way for city residents to be less susceptible to varying highs and lows in various energy prices.\n\nAmong the different modes of transportation, the use alternative energy cars and widespread installation of refueling stations has gained increasing importance, while the creation of centralized bike and walking paths remains a staple of the sustainable transportation movement.\n\nIn order to maintain the aspect of social responsibility inherent within the concept of sustainable cities, implementing sustainable transportation must include access to transportation by all levels of society. Due to the fact that car and fuel cost are often too expensive for lower income urban residents, completing this aspect often revolves around efficient and accessible public transportation.\n\nIn order to make public transportation more accessible, the cost of rides must be affordable and stations must be located no more than walking distance in each part of the city. As studies have shown, this accessibility creates a great increase in social and productive opportunity for city residents. By allowing lower income residents cheap and available transportation, it allows for individuals to seek employment opportunities all over the urban center rather than simply the area in which they live. This in turn reduces unemployment and a number of associated social problems such as crime, drug use, and violence.\n\nAlthough there is not an international policy regarding sustainable cities and there are not established international standards, there is an organization, the United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG) that is working to establish universal urban strategic guidelines. The UCLG a democratic and decentralized structure that operates in Africa, Asia, Eurasia, Europe, Latin America, North America, Middle East, West Asian and a Metropolitan section work to promote a more sustainable society. The 60 members of the UCLG committee evaluate urban development strategies and debate theses experiences to make the best recommendations. Additionally, the UCLG accounts for differences in regional and national context. All the organizations are making a great effort to promote this concept by media and internet, and in conferences and workshops. An International conference was held in Italy at Università del Salento and Università degli Studi della Basilicata, called 'Green Urbanism', from 12–14 October 2016.\n\nRecently, local and national governments and regional bodies such as the European Union have recognized the need for a holistic understanding of urban planning. This is instrumental to establishing an international policy that focuses on cities challenges and the role of the local authorities responses. Generally, in terms of urban planning, the responsibility of local governments are limited to land use and infrastructure provision excluding inclusive urban development strategies. The advantages of urban strategic planning include an increase in governance and cooperation that aids local governments in establishing performance based-management, clearly identifying the challenges facing local community and more effectively responding on a local level rather than national level, and improves institutional responses and local decision making. Additionally, it increases dialogue between stakeholders and develops consensus-based solutions, establishing continuity between sustainability plans and change in local government; it places environmental issues as the priority for the sustainable development of cities and serves as a platform to develop concepts and new models of housing, energy and mobility.\n\nThe City Development Strategies (CDS) addresses new challenges and provides space for innovative policies that involves all stakeholders. The inequality in spatial development and socio-economic classes paired with concerns of poverty reduction and climate change are factors in achieving global sustainable cities. According to the UCLG there are differences between regional and national conditions, framework and practice that are overcome in the international commitment to communication and negotiation with other governments, communities and the private sector to continual to develop through innovative and participatory approaches in strategic decisions, building consensus and monitoring performance management and raising investment.\n\nAccording to UN Habitat, around half of the world's population is concentrated in cities, which is set to rise to 60% within a couple decades. The UCLG has specifically identified 13 global challenges to establishing sustainable cities: demographic change and migration, globalisation of the job market, poverty and unmet Millennium Development Goals, segregation, spatial patterns and urban growth, metropolisation and the rise of urban regions, more political power for local authories, new actors for developing a city and providing services, decline in public funding for development, the environment and climate change, new and accessible building technologies, preparing for uncertainty and limits of growth and global communications and partnerships.\n\nUrban forests\n\nIn Adelaide, South Australia (a city of 1.3 million people) Premier Mike Rann (2002 to 2011) launched an urban forest initiative in 2003 to plant 3 million native trees and shrubs by 2014 on 300 project sites across the metro area. The projects range from large habitat restoration projects to local biodiversity projects. Thousands of Adelaide citizens have participated in community planting days. Sites include parks, reserves, transport corridors, schools, water courses and coastline. Only trees native to the local area are planted to ensure genetic integrity. Premier Rann said the project aimed to beautify and cool the city and make it more liveable; improve air and water quality and reduce Adelaide's greenhouse gas emissions by 600,000 tonnes of C02 a year. He said it was also about creating and conserving habitat for wildlife and preventing species loss.\n\nSolar power\n\nThe Rann government also launched an initiative for Adelaide to lead Australia in the take-up of solar power. In addition to Australia's first 'feed-in' tariff to stimulate the purchase of solar panels for domestic roofs, the government committed millions of dollars to place arrays of solar panels on the roofs of public buildings such as the museum, art gallery, Parliament, Adelaide Airport, 200 schools and Australia's biggest rooftop array on the roof of Adelaide Showgrounds' convention hall which was registered as a power station.\n\nWind power\n\nSouth Australia went from zero wind power in 2002 to wind power, making up 26% of its electricity generation by October 2011. In the five years preceding 2011 there was a 15% drop in emissions, despite strong economic growth.\n\nWaste recycling\n\nFor Adelaide the South Australian government also embraced a Zero Waste recycling strategy, achieving a recycling rate of nearly 80% by 2011 with 4.3 million tonnes of materials diverted from landfill to recycling. On a per capita basis this was the best result in Australia, the equivalent of preventing more than a million tonnes of C02 entering the atmosphere. In the 1970s container deposit legislation was introduced. Consumers are paid a 10 cent rebate on each bottle, can, or container they return to recycling. In 2009 non-reusable plastic bags used in supermarket checkouts were banned by the Rann Government, preventing 400 million plastic bags per year entering the litter stream. In 2010 Zero Waste SA was commended by a UN Habitat Report entitled 'Solid Waste Management in the World Cities'.\n\nMelbourne\n\n\nThe City of Greater Taree north of Sydney has developed a masterplan for Australia's first low-to-no carbon urban development.\n\nBelo Horizonte, Brazil was created in 1897 and is the third largest metropolis in Brazil, with 2.4 million inhabitants. The Strategic Plan for Belo Horizonte (2010–2030) is being prepared by external consultants based on similar cities' infrastructure, incorporating the role of local government, state government, city leaders and encouraging citizen participation. The need for environmental sustainable development is led by the initiative of new government following planning processes from the state government. Overall, the development of the metropolis is dependent on the land regularization and infrastructure improvement that will better support the cultural technology and economic landscape.Southern cities of Porto Alegre and Curitiba are often cited as examples of urban sustainability.\n\n\nThe GreenScore City Index studies the ecological footprints of Canadian cities and splits them into three population categories: large, medium, and small. The index studies 50 cities in Canada.\n\n\nMost cities in Canada have sustainability action plans which are easily searched and downloaded from city websites.\n\nIn 2010, Calgary ranked as the top eco-city in the planet for it's, \"excellent level of service on waste removal, sewage systems, and water drinkability and availability, coupled with relatively low air pollution.” The survey was performed in conjunction with the reputable Mercer Quality of Living Survey.\n\n\nTwo comprehensive studies were carried out for the whole of Denmark in 2010 (The IDA Climate Plan 2050) and 2011 (The Danish Commission on Climate Change Policy). The studies analysed the benefits and obstacles of running Denmark on 100% renewable energy from the year 2050. There is also a larger, ambitious plan in action: the Copenhagen 2025 Climate Plan.\n\nOn a more local level, the industrial park in Kalundborg is often cited as a model for industrial ecology. However, projects have been carried out in several Danish cities promoting 100% renewable energy. Examples include Aalborg, Ballerup and Frederikshavn. Aalborg University has launched a master education program on sustainable cities (Sustainable Cities @ Aalborg University Copenhagen). See also the Danish Wikipedia.\n\n\nLoja, Ecuador won three international prizes for the sustainability efforts begun by its mayor Dr. Jose Bolivar Castillo.\n\nOxford Residences for four seasons in Estonia, winning a prize for Sustainable Company of the Year, is arguably one of the most advanced sustainable developments, not only trying to be carbon neutral, but already carbon negativeGermany \n\nFreiburg im Breisgau is often referred to as green city. It is known for its strong solar economy. Vauban, Freiburg is a sustainable model district. All houses are built to a low energy consumption standard and the whole district is designed to be carfree. \n\nThe Finnish city of Turku has adopted a \"Carbon Neutral Turku by 2040\" strategy to achieve carbon neutrality via combining the goal with circular economy.\n\nNo other country has built more eco-city projects than Germany. Freiburg im Breisgau is often referred to as a green city. It is one of the few cities with a Green mayor and is known for its strong solar energy industry. Vauban, Freiburg is a sustainable model district. All houses are built to a low energy consumption standard and the whole district is designed to be carfree. Another green district in Freiburg is Rieselfeld, where houses generate more energy than they consume. There are several other green sustainable city projects such as Kronsberg in Hannover and current developments around Munich, Hamburg and Frankfurt.\n\n\nThe government portrays the proposed Hung Shui Kiu new town as an eco-city. The same happened with the urban development plan on the site of the former Kai Tak Airport.\n\nSouth Dublin County Council announced plans in late 2007 to develop Clonburris, a new suburb of Dublin to include up to 15,000 new homes, to be designed to achieve the highest of international standards. The plans for Clonburris include countless green innovations such as high levels of energy efficiency, mandatory renewable energy for heating and electricity, the use of recycled and sustainable building materials, a district heating system for distributing heat, the provision of allotments for growing food, and even the banning of tumble driers, with natural drying areas being provided instead.\n\nIn 2012 a energy plan was carried out by the Danish Aalborg University for the municipalities of Limerick and Clare. The project was a short-term 2020 renewable energy strategy giving a 20% reduction in CO emissions, while ensuring that short-term actions are beneficial to the long-term goal of 100% renewable energy.\n\nIndia is working on Gujarat International Finance Tec-City or GIFT which is an under-construction world-class city in the Indian state of Gujarat. It will come up on 500 acres (2.0 km) land. It will also be first of its kind fully Sustainable City.\nAuroville was founded in 1968 with the intention of realizing human unity, and is now home to approximately 2,000 individuals from over 45 nations around the world. Its focus is its vibrant community culture and its expertise in renewable energy systems, habitat restoration, ecology skills, mindfulness practices, and holistic education.\nAndhra Pradesh state New capital also coming up with a future sustainable city.\n\nHacienda - Mombasa, Kenya. It is the largest development of eco-friendly residential properties in East Africa; construction is currently ongoing, and it will eventually be one of Africa’s first self-sustaining estates.\n\nSongdo IBD is a planned city in Incheon which has incorporated a number of eco-friendly features. These include a central park irrigated with seawater, a subway line, bicycle lanes, rainwater catchment systems, and pneumatic waste collection system. 75% of the waste generated by the construction of the city will be recycled.\n\nGwanggyo City Centre is another planned sustainable city.\n\nAs of 2014 a Low Carbon Cities programme is being piloted in Malaysia by KeTTHA, the Malaysian Ministry of Energy, Green Technology and Water, Malaysian Green Technology Corporation (GreenTech Malaysia) and the Carbon Trust.\n\nMalacca has a stated ambition to become a carbon-free city, taking steps towards creating a smart electricity grid. This is being done as part of an initiative to create a Green Special Economic Zone, where it is intended that as many as 20 research and development centers will be built focusing on renewable energy and clean technology, creating up to 300,000 new green jobs. \n\nThe Federal Department of Town and Country Planning (FDTCP) in peninsular Malaysia is a focal point for the implementation of the Malaysian Urban Rural National Indicators Network for Sustainable Development (MURNInets)MURNInets includes 36 sets of compulsory indicators grouped under 21 themes under six dimensions. Most of the targets and standards for the selected indicators were adjusted according to hierarchy of local authorities. In MURNInets at least three main new features are introduced. These include the Happiness Index, an indicator under the quality of life theme to meet the current development trend that emphasizes on the well-being of the community. Another feature introduced is the customer or people satisfaction level towards local authorities' services. Through the introduction of these indicators the bottom-up approach in measuring sustainability is adopted.\n\nThe city of Waitakere, the Western part of the greater Auckland urban region, was New Zealand's first eco-city, working from the Greenprint, a guiding document that the City Council developed in the early 1990s.\n\nClark Freeport Zone is a former United States Air Force base in the Philippines. It is located on the northwest side of Angeles City and on the west side of Mabalacat City in the province of Pampanga, about 40 miles (60 km) northwest of Metro Manila. A multi-billion project will convert the 36,000 hectare former Clark Air Force Base into a mix of industrial, commercial and institutional areas of green environment. The heart of the project is a 9,450-hectare metropolis dubbed as the \"Clark Green City\". Builders will use the green building system for environmentally-friendly structures. Its facilities will tap renewable energy such as solar and hydro power.\n\nThe organization Living PlanIT is currently constructing a city from scratch near Porto, Portugal. Buildings will be electronically connected to vehicles giving the user a sense of personal eco-friendliness.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee also the Sustainability navigational box at the bottom of the page.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2668907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2668907", "title": "Tau Serpentis", "text": "Tau Serpentis\n\nThe Bayer designation Tau Serpentis (τ Ser / τ Serpentis) is shared by a collection of eight stars, τ Serpentis through τ Serpentis, in the head of the constellation Serpens. They are distributed within a box of size 40 minutes in right ascension by 3.5° in declination. They are numbered by increasing right ascension:\n"}
{"id": "58739433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58739433", "title": "Time-Resolved Observations of Precipitation structure and storm Intensity with a Constellation of Smallsats", "text": "Time-Resolved Observations of Precipitation structure and storm Intensity with a Constellation of Smallsats\n\nNASA's Time-Resolved Observations of Precipitation structure and storm Intensity with a Constellation of Smallsats (TROPICS) mission is a constellation of small satellites that will measure temperature and moisture profiles and precipitation in tropical systems with unprecedented temporal frequency. This data will enable scientists to study the dynamic processes that occur in the inner core of the storm resulting in rapid genesis and intensification. William Blackwell of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Lincoln Laboratory in Lexington is the principal investigator.\n\nThe TROPICS CubeSats will get very frequent measurements, similar to X-rays, that cut through the overall cloud-cover to see the storm’s underlying structure. The storm structures known as the eyewall – tall clouds, wind and rain around the eye – and rainbands – the rainy parts of the spiral arms – give us clues about whether a storm is primed to intensify into a category 4 or 5 storm, something everyone in their path needs to know.\n\nTROPICS will consist of 12 CubeSats, each about one foot long and weighing just 8.5 pounds, that use scanning microwave radiometers to measure temperature, humidity, precipitation and cloud properties. The CubeSats will be launched into three separate orbital planes to enable the overall constellation to monitor changes in tropical cyclones as frequently as every 21 minutes. Each CubeSat will host a high-performance radiometer scanning across the satellite track at 30 RPM to provide temperature profiles using seven channels near the 118.75 GHz oxygen absorption line, water vapor profiles using 3 channels near the 183 GHz water vapor absorption line, imagery in a single channel near 90 GHz for precipitation measurements, and a single channel at 206 GHz for cloud ice measurements.\n\nThe investigation was selected from NASA’s third Earth Venture Instrument competition.\n\nLangley Research Center is the NASA Center leading the mission.\n"}
{"id": "5977485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5977485", "title": "Underwater panther", "text": "Underwater panther\n\nAn underwater panther, called or in Ojibwe (), is one of the most important of several mythological water beings among many indigenous peoples of the Northeastern Woodlands and Great Lakes region, particularly among the Anishinaabe.\n\n\"\" translates into \"the Great Lynx\". It has the head and paws of a giant cat but is covered in scales and has dagger-like spikes running along its back and tail. Mishipeshu calls Michipicoten Island in Lake Superior his home and is a powerful creature in the mythological traditions of some Native American tribes, particularly Anishinaabe tribes, the Odawa, Ojibwe, and Potawatomi, of the Great Lakes region of Canada and the United States. In addition to the Anishinaabeg, Innu also have \"Mishibizhiw\" stories.\n\nTo the Algonquins, the underwater panther was the most powerful underworld being. The Ojibwe traditionally held them to be masters of all water creatures, including snakes. Some versions of the Nanabozho creation legend refers to whole communities of water lynx.\n\nSome archaeologists believe that underwater panthers were major components of the Southeastern Ceremonial Complex of the Mississippian culture in the prehistoric American Southeast.\n\nIn the Ojibwe language, this creature is sometimes called ', ', ', ', ', ', or ', which translates as \"Great Lynx\", or ' (\"Gitche-anahmi-bezheu\"), which translates as \"the fabulous night panther\". However, it is also commonly referred to as the \"Great underground wildcat\" or \"Great under-water wildcat.\" It is the most important of the underwater animals for the Ojibwa.\n\nIn mythologies of the indigenous peoples of the Great Lakes, underwater panthers are described as water monsters that live in opposition to the Thunderbirds, masters of the powers of the air. Underwater Panthers are seen as an opposing yet complementary force to the Thunderbirds, and they are engaged in eternal conflict.\n\nUnderwater panther was an amalgam of features from many animals: the body of a wild feline, often a cougar or lynx; the horns of deer or bison; upright scales on its back; occasionally feathers; and parts from other animals as well, depending on the particular myth. Underwater panthers are represented with exceptionally long tails, occasionally with serpentine properties. The creatures are thought to roar or hiss in the sounds of storms or rushing rapids.\n\n\"\" were said to live in the deepest parts of lakes and rivers, where they can cause storms. Some traditions believed the underwater panthers to be helpful, protective creatures, but more often they were viewed as malevolent beasts that brought death and misfortune. They often need to be placated for safe passage across a lake. As late as the 1950s, the Prairie Band of Potawatomi Indians performed a traditional ceremony to placate the Underworld Panther and maintain balance with the Thunderbird.\n\nWhen ethnographer Johann Georg Kohl visited the United States in the 1850s, he spoke with a Fond du Lac chief, who showed Kohl a piece of copper kept in his medicine bag. The chief said it was a strand of hair from the \"\", and thus considered extremely powerful.\n\n\"\" is known for guarding the vast amounts of copper in Lake Superior and the Great Lakes Region. Indigenous people mined copper long before the arrival of Europeans to the area. Later, during the 17th century, missionaries of the Society of Jesus arrived in the Great Lakes Region. By that time, swiping copper from the region was extremely taboo and forbidden by the Ojibwa tribe. It was even worse to take it from the Great Lynx's home, Michipicoten Island; this was considered to be stealing from Mishipeshu himself.\n\nThere are a few stories of encounters with this great beast. A Jesuit missionary named Claude Dablon told a story about four Ojibwa Indians who embarked on a journey to the home of \"\" to take some copper back to their home, and use it to heat water. The very second they pushed off and backed into the water with their canoe, the eerie voice of the water panther surrounded them. The water panther came growling after them, vigorously accusing them of stealing the playthings of his children. All four of the Indians died on the way back to their village; the last one surviving just long enough to tell the tale of what had happened in his final moments before he died.\n\nThe underwater panther is well represented in pictograms. Historical Anishnaabe twined and quilled men's bags often feature an underwater panther on one panel and the Thunderbird on the other. Norval Morrisseau (Ojibwe) painted underwater panthers in his Woodlands style artworks, contemporary paintings based on Ojibwe oral history and cosmology. The emblem has been embellished, and appears as a decorative motif on muskets.\n\nThe Canadian Museum of History includes an underwater panther in its coat of arms.\n\nIn 2003, archaeologist Brad Lepper suggested that the Alligator Effigy Mound in Granville, Ohio represents the underwater panther. Lepper posits that early European settlers, when learning from Native Americans that the mound represented a fierce creature that lived in the water and ate people, mistakenly assumed that the Native Americans were referring to an alligator.\n\nThe \"Grimm\" episode \"Mishipeshu\" involves the possession of a young Native American by an underwater panther.\n\n\n\n"}
