{"id": "41732962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41732962", "title": "Academic bias", "text": "Academic bias\n\nAcademic bias is the bias or perceived bias of scholars allowing their beliefs to shape their research and the scientific community. Claims of bias are often linked to claims by conservatives of pervasive bias against political conservatives and religious Christians. This claim focuses on what conservatives, such as David Horowitz, say is discrimination against those who hold a conservative ideology and the argument that research has been corrupted by a desire to promote an progressive agenda. Barry Ames et al., John Lee and Henry Giroux have argued that these claims are based upon anecdotal evidence which would not reliably indicate systematic bias. Russell Jacoby has argued that claims of academic bias have been used to push measures that infringe on academic freedom.\n\nAccording to , a quarterly journal with a conservative point of view, evidence for academic bias includes the disproportionate percentage of academics who are political progressives and/or irreligious. Conservative activists, such as David Horowitz, have argued that this imbalance is due to academics creating an inhospitable atmosphere for conservatives. Ames et al. and Neil Gross have suggested that this divide is due to self-selection. Instead of conservatives not participating in academia because of discrimination, this theory suggests that conservatives simply are more likely to choose not to pursue an academic career.\n\nSome research supports the possibility of academic bias against political conservatives and the highly religious. An audit study suggests that entrance into a clinical psychology graduate program is negatively affected by whether the applicant is a conservative Protestant. Examination of the comments made by members of the admission committees of medical schools also indicated religious candidates were more closely questioned because of their beliefs. Other research indicates a willingness of academics to openly admit that they are less likely to hire a colleague, if they find out that the colleague is either religiously or politically conservative. George Yancey's research is particularly notable since he finds that academics in a variety of disciplines are open to discriminating against fundamentalists, evangelicals and to a lesser extent Republicans. Research further suggests that certain types of conservatives are more likely to suffer from potential academic bias. Stanley Rothman and S. Robert Lichter's analysis indicates that economic and foreign policy conservatives' academic careers do not appear to be shaped by their conservatism. Yancey also argues that the label of Republican or Christian may not be enough to trigger bias but those seen as strongly conservative in their political ideology or religious theology may garner discrimination and prejudice. Furthermore, evidence of academic bias appears to be stronger in the social sciences and humanities than in the natural sciences. According to George Yancey, such findings indicate that if academic bias exists then it does so within a given cultural context.\n\nHowever, reasons given for the unwillingness of conservatives to pursue an academic career may be because conservatives prefer higher paying jobs and are not as tolerant of controversial ideas as progressives. Empirical support for self-selection can be found in the work of Neil Gross. He conducted an audit study whereby he sent emails to directors of graduate study programs. He varied the emails so that some of them indicated the student supported the presidential candidacy of Senator John McCain, some of them supported the presidential candidacy of then Senator Barack Obama and some of them were politically neutral. He found that the directors of graduate study programs did not significantly vary in their treatment of the senders of the letters regardless of the implied political advocacy of that sender. His work suggests an absence of systematic discrimination against political conservatives.\n\nBrent D. Slife and Jeffrey S. Reber assert that an implicit bias against theism limits possible insights in the field of psychology.\n\nResearch by a conservative group, the American Council of Trustees and Alumni, argues that course curriculums betray a progressive bias. However, John Lee argues that this research is not based on a probability sample and uses a research design that cannot rule out explanations other than political bias. Furthermore, research suggests little or no leftward movement among college students while they are in college.\nAcademic bias has also been argued as a problem due to discrimination against conservative students. Research has indicated that conservative Christians may experience discrimination on colleges and universities, though these studies are anecdotal and rely on self-reported perceptions of discrimination. For example, the Hyers' study includes \"Belief Conflicts\" and \"Interaction Difficulties\" as discriminatory events. However, other work suggests that very few students experience discrimination based on political ideology.\n\nThere is some evidence that academic bias can be based in non-political and non-religious dimensions. At least one study suggests that perception of classroom bias may be rooted in issues of sexuality, race, class and sex as much or more than in religion. However, according to Yancey's research, willingness of academics to discriminate against colleagues indicate little appetite for such discrimination, unless the target is religiously or politically conservative.\n\n"}
{"id": "324570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=324570", "title": "Academic publishing", "text": "Academic publishing\n\nAcademic publishing is the subfield of publishing which distributes academic research and scholarship. Most academic work is published in academic journal article, book or thesis form. The part of academic written output that is not formally published but merely printed up or posted on the Internet is often called \"grey literature\". Most scientific and scholarly journals, and many academic and scholarly books, though not all, are based on some form of peer review or editorial refereeing to qualify texts for publication. Peer review quality and selectivity standards vary greatly from journal to journal, publisher to publisher, and field to field.\n\nMost established academic disciplines have their own journals and other outlets for publication, although many academic journals are somewhat interdisciplinary, and publish work from several distinct fields or subfields. There is also a tendency for existing journals to divide into specialized sections as the field itself becomes more specialized. Along with the variation in review and publication procedures, the kinds of publications that are accepted as contributions to knowledge or research differ greatly among fields and subfields.\n\nAcademic publishing is undergoing major changes, as it makes the transition from the print to the electronic format. Business models are different in the electronic environment. Since the early 1990s, licensing of electronic resources, particularly journals, has been very common. Currently, an important trend, particularly with respect to journals in the sciences, is open access via the Internet. In open access publishing, a journal article is made available free for all on the web by the publisher at the time of publication. Open-access journals are often funded by the author paying hundreds or thousands of dollars in publication fees, thereby shifting the costs from the reader to the researcher or their funder, but some open-access journals are funded directly. The Internet has facilitated open access self-archiving, in which authors themselves make a copy of their published articles available free for all on the web. Some important results in mathematics have been published only on arXiv.\n\nThe \"Journal des sçavans\" (later spelled \"Journal des savants\"), established by Denis de Sallo, was the earliest academic journal published in Europe. Its content included obituaries of famous men, church history, and legal reports. The first issue appeared as a twelve-page quarto pamphlet on Monday, 5 January 1665, shortly before the first appearance of the \"Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society\", on 6 March 1665.\n\nAt that time, the act of publishing academic inquiry was controversial and widely ridiculed. It was not at all unusual for a new discovery to be announced as an anagram, reserving priority for the discoverer, but indecipherable for anyone not in on the secret: both Isaac Newton and Leibniz used this approach. However, this method did not work well. Robert K. Merton, a sociologist, found that 92% of cases of simultaneous discovery in the 17th century ended in dispute. The number of disputes dropped to 72% in the 18th century, 59% by the latter half of the 19th century, and 33% by the first half of the 20th century. The decline in contested claims for priority in research discoveries can be credited to the increasing acceptance of the publication of papers in modern academic journals, with estimates suggesting that around 50 million journal articles have been published since the first appearance of the \"Philosophical Transactions\". The Royal Society was steadfast in its not-yet-popular belief that science could only move forward through a transparent and open exchange of ideas backed by experimental evidence.\n\nEarly scientific journals embraced several models: some were run by a single individual who exerted editorial control over the contents, often simply publishing extracts from colleagues' letters, while others employed a group decision making process, more closely aligned to modern peer review. It wasn't until the middle of the 20th century that peer review became the standard.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, commercial publishers began to selectively acquire \"top-quality\" journals that were previously published by nonprofit academic societies. When the commercial publishers raised the subscription prices significantly, they lost little of the market, due to the inelastic demand for these journals. Although there are over 2,000 publishers, five for-profit companies (Reed Elsevier, Springer Science+Business Media, Wiley-Blackwell, Taylor & Francis, and Sage) accounted for 50% of articles published in 2013. (Since 2013, Springer Science+Business Media has undergone a merger to form an even bigger company named Springer Nature.) Available data indicate that these companies have profit margins of around 40% making it one of the most profitable industries, especially compared to the smaller publishers, which likely operate with low margins. These factors have contributed to the \"serials crisis\" – total expenditures on serials increased 7.6% per year from 1986 to 2005, yet the number of serials purchased increased an average of only 1.9% per year.\n\nUnlike most industries, in academic publishing the two most important inputs are provided \"virtually free of charge\". These are the articles and the peer review process. Publishers argue that they add value to the publishing process through support to the peer review group, including stipends, as well as through typesetting, printing, and web publishing. Investment analysts, however, have been skeptical of the value added by for-profit publishers, as exemplified by a 2005 Deutsche Bank analysis which stated that \"we believe the publisher adds relatively little value to the publishing process... We are simply observing that if the process really were as complex, costly and value-added as the publishers protest that it is, 40% margins wouldn't be available.\"\n\nA crisis in academic publishing is \"widely perceived\"; the apparent crisis has to do with the combined pressure of budget cuts at universities and increased costs for journals (the serials crisis). The university budget cuts have reduced library budgets and reduced subsidies to university-affiliated publishers. The humanities have been particularly affected by the pressure on university publishers, which are less able to publish monographs when libraries can not afford to purchase them. For example, the ARL found that in \"1986, libraries spent 44% of their budgets on books compared with 56% on journals; twelve years later, the ratio had skewed to 28% and 72%.\" Meanwhile, monographs are increasingly expected for tenure in the humanities. In 2002 the Modern Language Association expressed hope that electronic publishing would solve the issue.\n\nIn 2009 and 2010, surveys and reports found that libraries faced continuing budget cuts, with one survey in 2009 finding that one-third of libraries had their budgets cut by 5% or more.\n\nSeveral models are being investigated, such as open publication models or adding community-oriented features.\nIt is also considered that \"Online scientific interaction outside the traditional journal space is becoming more and more important to academic communication\". In addition, experts have suggested measures to make the publication process more efficient in disseminating new and important findings by evaluating the worthiness of publication on the basis of the significance and novelty of the research finding.\n\nIn academic publishing, a paper is an academic work that is usually published in an academic journal. It contains original research results or reviews existing results. Such a paper, also called an article, will only be considered valid if it undergoes a process of peer review by one or more \"referees\" (who are academics in the same field) who check that the content of the paper is suitable for publication in the journal. A paper may undergo a series of reviews, revisions, and re-submissions before finally being accepted or rejected for publication. This process typically takes several months. Next, there is often a delay of many months (or in some subjects, over a year) before an accepted manuscript appears. This is particularly true for the most popular journals where the number of accepted articles often outnumbers the space for printing. Due to this, many academics self-archive a 'pre-print' copy of their paper for free download from their personal or institutional website.\n\nSome journals, particularly newer ones, are now published in electronic form only. Paper journals are now generally made available in electronic form as well, both to individual subscribers, and to libraries. Almost always these electronic versions are available to subscribers immediately upon publication of the paper version, or even before; sometimes they are also made available to non-subscribers, either immediately (by open access journals) or after an embargo of anywhere from two to twenty-four months or more, in order to protect against loss of subscriptions. Journals having this delayed availability are sometimes called delayed open access journals. Ellison has reported that in economics the dramatic increase in opportunities to publish results online has led to a decline in the use of peer-reviewed articles.\n\nAn academic paper typically belongs to some particular category such as:\n\n\nNote: Law review is the generic term for a journal of legal scholarship in the United States, often operating by rules radically different from those for most other academic journals.\n\nPeer review is a central concept for most academic publishing; other scholars in a field must find a work sufficiently high in quality for it to merit publication. A secondary benefit of the process is an indirect guard against plagiarism since reviewers are usually familiar with the sources consulted by the author(s). The origins of routine peer review for submissions dates to 1752 when the Royal Society of London took over official responsibility for \"Philosophical Transactions.\" However, there were some earlier examples.\n\nWhile journal editors largely agree the system is essential to quality control in terms of rejecting poor quality work, there have been examples of important results that are turned down by one journal before being taken to others. Rena Steinzor wrote:\n\"Confirmatory bias\" is the unconscious tendency to accept reports which support the reviewer's views and to downplay those which do not. Experimental studies show the problem exists in peer reviewing.\n\nThe process of academic publishing, which begins when authors submit a manuscript to a publisher, is divided into two distinct phases: peer review and production.\n\nThe process of peer review is organized by the journal editor and is complete when the content of the article, together with any associated images or figures, are accepted for publication. The peer review process is increasingly managed online, through the use of proprietary systems, commercial software packages, or open source and free software. A manuscript undergoes one or more rounds of review; after each round, the author(s) of the article modify their submission in line with the reviewers' comments; this process is repeated until the editor is satisfied and the work is accepted.\n\nThe production process, controlled by a production editor or publisher, then takes an article through copy editing, typesetting, inclusion in a specific issue of a journal, and then printing and online publication. Academic copy editing seeks to ensure that an article conforms to the journal's house style, that all of the referencing and labelling is correct, and that the text is consistent and legible; often this work involves substantive editing and negotiating with the authors. Because the work of academic copy editors can overlap with that of authors' editors, editors employed by journal publishers often refer to themselves as “manuscript editors”.\n\nIn much of the 20th century, such articles were photographed for printing into proceedings and journals, and this stage was known as \"camera-ready\" copy. With modern digital submission in formats such as PDF, this photographing step is no longer necessary, though the term is still sometimes used.\n\nThe author will review and correct proofs at one or more stages in the production process. The proof correction cycle has historically been labour-intensive as handwritten comments by authors and editors are manually transcribed by a proof reader onto a clean version of the proof. In the early 21st century, this process was streamlined by the introduction of e-annotations in Microsoft Word, Adobe Acrobat, and other programs, but it still remained a time-consuming and error-prone process. The full automation of the proof correction cycles has only become possible with the onset of online collaborative writing platforms, such as Authorea, Google Docs, and various others, where a remote service oversees the copy-editing interactions of multiple authors and exposes them as explicit, actionable historic events.\n\nAcademic authors cite sources they have used, in order to support their assertions and arguments and to help readers find more information on the subject. It also gives credit to authors whose work they use and helps avoid plagiarism.\n\nEach scholarly journal uses a specific format for citations (also known as references). Among the most common formats used in research papers are the APA, CMS, and MLA styles.\n\nThe American Psychological Association (APA) style is often used in the social sciences. The Chicago Manual of Style (CMS) is used in business, communications, economics, and social sciences. The CMS style uses footnotes at the bottom of page to help readers locate the sources. The Modern Language Association (MLA) style is widely used in the humanities.\n\nScientific, technical, and medical (STM) literature is a large industry which generated $23.5 billion in revenue; $9.4 billion of that was specifically from the publication of English-language scholarly journals. Most scientific research is initially published in scientific journals and considered to be a primary source. Technical reports, for minor research results and engineering and design work (including computer software), round out the primary literature. Secondary sources in the sciences include articles in review journals (which provide a synthesis of research articles on a topic to highlight advances and new lines of research), and books for large projects, broad arguments, or compilations of articles. Tertiary sources might include encyclopedias and similar works intended for broad public consumption or academic libraries.\n\nA partial exception to scientific publication practices is in many fields of applied science, particularly that of U.S. computer science research. An equally prestigious site of publication within U.S. computer science are some academic conferences. Reasons for this departure include a large number of such conferences, the quick pace of research progress, and computer science professional society support for the distribution and archiving of conference proceedings.\n\nPublishing in the social sciences is very different in different fields. Some fields, like economics, may have very \"hard\" or highly quantitative standards for publication, much like the natural sciences. Others, like anthropology or sociology, emphasize field work and reporting on first-hand observation as well as quantitative work. Some social science fields, such as public health or demography, have significant shared interests with professions like law and medicine, and scholars in these fields often also publish in professional magazines.\n\nPublishing in the humanities is in principle similar to publishing elsewhere in the academy; a range of journals, from general to extremely specialized, are available, and university presses issue many new humanities books every year. The arrival of online publishing opportunities has radically transformed the economics of the field and the shape of the future is controversial. Unlike science, where timeliness is critically important, humanities publications often take years to write and years more to publish. Unlike the sciences, research is most often an individual process and is seldom supported by large grants. Journals rarely make profits and are typically run by university departments.\n\nThe following describes the situation in the United States. In many fields, such as literature and history, several published articles are typically required for a first tenure-track job, and a published or forthcoming \"book\" is now often required before tenure. Some critics complain that this \"de facto\" system has emerged without thought to its consequences; they claim that the predictable result is the publication of much shoddy work, as well as unreasonable demands on the already limited research time of young scholars. To make matters worse, the circulation of many humanities journals in the 1990s declined to almost untenable levels, as many libraries cancelled subscriptions, leaving fewer and fewer peer-reviewed outlets for publication; and many humanities professors' first books sell only a few hundred copies, which often does not pay for the cost of their printing. Some scholars have called for a publication subvention of a few thousand dollars to be associated with each graduate student fellowship or new tenure-track hire, in order to alleviate the financial pressure on journals.\n\nAn alternative to the subscription model of journal publishing is the open access journal model, which typically involves a publication charge being paid by the author. Prestige journals typically charge several thousand dollars. Oxford University Press, with over 300 journals, has fees ranging from £1000-£2500, with discounts of 50% to 100% to authors from developing countries. Wiley Blackwell has 700 journals available, and they charge a flat $US3000 open access fee. Springer, with over 2600 journals, charges US$3000 or EUR 2200 (excluding VAT).\n\nThe online distribution of individual articles and academic journals then takes place without charge to readers and libraries. Most open access journals remove all the financial, technical, and legal barriers that limit access to academic materials to paying customers. The Public Library of Science and BioMed Central are prominent examples of this model.\n\nOpen access has been criticized on quality grounds, as the desire to maximize publishing fees could cause some journals to relax the standard of peer review. It may be criticized on financial grounds as well because the necessary publication fees have proven to be higher than originally expected. Open access advocates generally reply that because open access is as much based on peer reviewing as traditional publishing, the quality should be the same (recognizing that both traditional and open access journals have a range of quality). It has also been argued that good science done by academic institutions who cannot afford to pay for open access might not get published at all, but most open access journals permit the waiver of the fee for financial hardship or authors in underdeveloped countries. In any case, all authors have the option of self-archiving their articles in their institutional repositories in order to make them open access, whether or not they publish them in a journal.\n\nIf they publish in a Hybrid open access journal, authors pay a subscription journal a publication fee to make their individual article open access. The other articles in such hybrid journals are either made available after a delay or remain available only by subscription. Most traditional publishers (including Wiley-Blackwell, Oxford University Press, and Springer Science+Business Media) have already introduced such a hybrid option, and more are following. Proponents of open access suggest that such moves by corporate publishers illustrate that open access, or a mix of open access and traditional publishing, can be financially viable, and evidence to that effect is emerging. The fraction of the authors of a hybrid open access journal that make use of its open access option can, however, be small. It also remains unclear whether this is practical in fields outside the sciences, where there is much less availability of outside funding. In 2006, several funding agencies, including the Wellcome Trust and several divisions of the Research Councils in the UK announced the availability of extra funding to their grantees for such open access journal publication fees.\n\nIn May 2016, the Council for the European Union agreed that from 2020 all scientific publications as a result of publicly funded research must be freely available. It also must be able to optimally reuse research data. To achieve that, the data must be made accessible, unless there are well-founded reasons for not doing so, for example, intellectual property rights or security or privacy issues.\n\nIn recent decades there has been a growth in academic publishing in developing countries as they become more advanced in science and technology. Although the large majority of scientific output and academic documents are produced in developed countries, the rate of growth in these countries has stabilized and is much smaller than the growth rate in some of the developing countries. The fastest scientific output growth rate over the last two decades has been in the Middle East and Asia with Iran leading with an 11-fold increase followed by the Republic of Korea, Turkey, Cyprus, China, and Oman. In comparison, the only G8 countries in top 20 ranking with fastest performance improvement are, Italy which stands at tenth and Canada at 13th globally.\n\nBy 2004, it was noted that the output of scientific papers originating from the European Union had a larger share of the world's total from 36.6 to 39.3 percent and from 32.8 to 37.5 per cent of the \"top one per cent of highly cited scientific papers\". However, the United States' output dropped 52.3 to 49.4 per cent of the world's total, and its portion of the top one percent dropped from 65.6 to 62.8 per cent.\n\nIran, China, India, Brazil, and South Africa were the only developing countries among the 31 nations that produced 97.5% of the most cited scientific articles in a study published in 2004. The remaining 162 countries contributed less than 2.5%. The Royal Society in a 2011 report stated that in share of English scientific research papers the United States was first followed by China, the UK, Germany, Japan, France, and Canada. The report predicted that China would overtake the United States sometime before 2020, possibly as early as 2013. China's scientific impact, as measured by other scientists citing the published papers the next year, is smaller although also increasing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28030481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28030481", "title": "Alternative Center for Excellence", "text": "Alternative Center for Excellence\n\nThe Alternative Center for Excellence (ACE), formerly the Alternative Center for Education, is located in the former Locust Avenue School at 26 Locust Avenue in Danbury, Connecticut, United States. It is an alternative high school within the city's school system, meant for at-risk students.\n\nThe building itself, a brick Romanesque Revival structure, was designed by architect Warren R. Briggs in 1896, and later featured in his book \"Modern American School Buildings\". For many years it was an elementary school, and a laboratory school where recent graduates of the state's teacher training schools were sent to hone their skills with actual students before going to their ultimate teaching jobs.\n\nToday it is the last nineteenth-century school building remaining in Danbury, and one of the few remaining laboratory school buildings in the state. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1985.\n\nThe school occupies a lot at the north end of the block formed by Locust, Ninth and Roberts avenues in an otherwise residential neighborhood. Western Connecticut State University, formerly the Danbury State Normal School where the teachers at the school were trained in its laboratory era, is a block to the west. Downtown Danbury is a mile (1.6 km) to the west-southwest, and Danbury Hospital is to the northwest along Locust.\n\nThe terrain is level. Paved parking lots abut the school on the south and west. The entire site is landscaped, with trees planted shortly after the school was opened to honor veterans of the Spanish–American War.\n\nThe building itself is a two-story structure of common bond orange-red brick on a raised basement topped by a slate-shingled hip roof. Modillioned galvanized sheet metal is along the eaves. At the top of the roof is an orange wooden cupola with octagonal rounded roof supported by round arches with keys and surrounded by a balustrade with chamfered newels and pointed finials. A stone water table runs around the building at the level of the top of the entrance steps.\n\nOn both east and west facades are a nearly identical projecting two-story pavilion with a central pediment with returns. The centrally located entrances, reached by a set of stone steps, are double doors in concentric recessed round arches. A projecting bay window on the west side, facing Roberts Avenue, is the only difference between the two.\n\nInside both entrances lead into vestibules with hooks for hanging coats. Four classrooms are on each floor, two on each side of the central hall, with three-foot (1 m) wainscoting of tongue and groove North Carolina pine. Partitions within the rooms are all brick. Each is lit by six tall windows and floored in pine similar to the wainscoting. The blackboards above the wainscoting have their original turned trim.\n\nThe supporting beams in the ceilings are exposed. They are reinforced at the joints by cast iron columns with decorative floral bases. Also exposed along the upper walls are the copper heating pipes with their original brass fittings run; spaces in the ceiling above that originally helped to ventilate the building have been boarded over to comply with modern fire codes.\n\nIn the basement, designed to be fully functional, windows provide similar natural illumination. Brick partitions are pierced with rounded arches, and large brick piers with corbeled tops support the ceiling. The walls are decorated with student artwork. The cooking facilities, sink and bathroom stalls are all original. The original 1894 Gurney furnace remains in operation to supplement the modern furnace.\n\nThe Town of Danbury, which at that time was in charge of education, built the school in response to growing population on the city's eastern fringe following the subdivision of the former White Farm in that area. Development on Locust Avenue took off, complemented by new streets like Ninth Avenue. Children in the area had to walk a long distance to the Balmforth Street School. Architect Warren Briggs had already designed a sister school on Morris Street on the other side of the city.\n\nHis design, with Romanesque Revival touches, incorporated his advanced ideas on school construction, primarily that school buildings should be visually appealing. Classrooms were arranged so that the abundant natural light came over the student's left shoulder. The ventilation and high ceilings kept them airy as well as bright, with space for classes of 50–60 students as was common at the time. The basement was meant to be used as a play space when weather outside was not suitable. In 1899 the Locust Avenue School was one of Briggs' featured designs in his \"Modern American School Buildings\".\n\nThe Danbury Building Company constructed the new school for $23,000 ($ in contemporary dollars). After a short delay, students began their spring term there in April 1896. The 150 first and second graders had previously attended either Liberty Street or Balmforth. The school's first graduating class planted the trees in honor of veterans of the recent Spanish–American War.\n\nWithin a decade, in 1905, administration was transferred to the nearby Danbury State Normal School (now Western Connecticut State University. Students there were required to teach, observe or manage for two weeks of the school year at either Locust Avenue or the one-room King Street School in the city's northwestern corner. Over time other Danbury schools were included as well, but Locust Avenue remained one of them.\n\nThe state's Department of Education continued to staff the school, and the Town of Danbury to maintain it, until 1965. In that year city and town governments were consolidated and control of the school was turned over to the Danbury Board of Education. It continued to be used as an elementary school until 1976. By that time, all of the other schools Danbury had built in the 19th century had been demolished. Statewide, only two other laboratory schools, in New Haven and New Britain, remain.\n\nThe next year, 1977, it was reused as what was originally known as the Alternative Center for Education, a program for at-risk students. A few years later, the building's heating, cooling and ventilation systems, the first of which had been converted from coal to oil in the 1920s, were upgraded to comply with modern building codes. There have been few other changes to the building in its lifetime.\n\nThe Alternative Center for Excellence keeps class sizes low, with a student-teacher ratio of about 10:1. Approximately a hundred students are in the program in each year. They are divided into nine guidance groups, with each teacher responsible for about ten students.\n\nApplicants come for a two-day visit, submit three letters of recommendation and do 15 hours of community service. Afterwards, they are interviewed along with their parents by students and staff. They must demonstrate to the program's satisfaction that they are willing to attend school regularly and devote themselves to academic improvement.\n\nOver 500 students have completed the program since it was inaugurated. They must meet Danbury High School's graduation requirements, and receive a diploma from it. They attend both the high school's graduation ceremonies as well as ACE's.\n\nThe school's location has been considered a factor in its success. It is a short walk from both the commercial areas on White Street, where many students work after school, and Roberts Avenue School, where many serve as reading tutors. For these reasons the program has remained at the Locust Avenue building, helping to preserve it.\n\n"}
{"id": "11962396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11962396", "title": "Anthony Froshaug", "text": "Anthony Froshaug\n\nAnthony Froshaug (1920–84) was an English typographer, designer and teacher, born in London to a Norwegian father and English mother.\n\nInfluenced by ideas of European modernism, particularly the work of Jan Tschichold, Froshaug is considered by some to be the most convincing exponent of modern typography in Britain.\n\nAnthony Froshaug's archive is located at the University of Brighton Design Archives.\n\nFroshaug attended Charterhouse School and studied book production and wood engraving at the Central School of Arts & Crafts from 1937 to 1939.\n\nOn leaving the Central in 1939 he began to practice as a freelance graphic designer and typographer. As a typographer, he has been viewed as unusual in running his own small (un-private) press, including two periods of printing in Cornwall (1949–52, 1954–7). He worked with Alan Kitching.\n\nFroshaug was a natural teacher: he taught typography, first at the Central School (1948–9, 1952–3), then at the Hochschule für Gestaltung Ulm (1957–61), the Royal College of Art in London (1961–4), Watford School of Art (1964–6); in 1970 he returned to teach (part-time) at the Central School, continuing there until illness forced him to stop. He later also taught at the London College of Printing Department of Art and Design from 1980–82.\n\nAs both a practitioner and a teacher, Froshaug preferred an experimental workshop environment with opportunities for discussion, rather than more formal learning structures.\n\n"}
{"id": "38811268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38811268", "title": "Arboricultural Association", "text": "Arboricultural Association\n\nThe Arboricultural Association is the largest body in the UK for the amenity tree care professional (arboriculturalists).\n\nThere are over 2300 Arboricultural Association members and is recognised by local Government, the RHS and increasingly the general public as the focal point for best practice in arboriculture . It has a membership program linked to the Qualifications and Credit Framework It is represented on a number of national bodies including the Tree Council. It is a registered charity, charity number 1083845.\n\nIt is situated on the B4008 in Stroud Green, north of Stonehouse.\nThe address is The Malthouse, Stroud Green, Standish, Stonehouse, Gloucestershire GL10 3DL\n\nIt regulates the education and qualifications of tree surgeons in the UK.\nThe Arboriculture Association continually strives to raise awareness of the importance of urban and amenity trees and gives a voice to everyone working within the wide and varied industry. Working with the Arboriculture Association allows the progression of the disciplines of arboriculture and makes our villages, towns and cities greener.\nMembership with the AA provides support and benefits which are tailored to the members needs as they progress through a career in arboriculture. Members have access to a wide range of benefits, along with the opportunity to get involved with the key developments and decisions in the industry and make their voices heard.\n\nThe AA was founded in 1964 as a scientific and educational organisation, keen to promote the care and value of trees in no forest settings. The passion for trees shown by the founders at that time continues to exist in our Board and members today. \nFollowing initial discussions between Keith Ross, Don Wells and other interested parties, the Arboricultural Association is formed, and in the same year the Association of British Tree Surgeons and Arborists (ABTSA) is also formed.\nIn May 1965 Issue 1 of Volume 1 of The Arboricultural Association Journal was published. In this year the AA was also involved in developing new tree-related standards and documents including BS3936:1965 Nursery Stock - Trees and Shrubs; BS3998:1966 ‘Recommendations for Tree Work’ and BS4043:1966 Semi-Mature Trees. The first AA Advisory Leaflet ‘Tree Preservation Orders’ is also published.\nIn 1974 at the Arboricultural Annual Conference at Merrist Wood College, the AA and ABTSA formally merge to become the ‘new’ AA incorporating ABTSA. Don Wells reported that the Scottish Branch had been very active since 1971. Don Wells reported “A register of Consultants has been drawn up and well established” and that the AA were involved in preparartion of Bristish Standards for ‘Extra Heavy Trees’ and ‘Tree Roots and Construction’.\n\n"}
{"id": "1558159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1558159", "title": "Charrette", "text": "Charrette\n\nA charrette (American pronunciation: ), often Anglicized to charette or charet and sometimes called a design charrette, is an intense period of design or planning activity.\n\nThe word \"charrette\" is French for \"cart\" or \"chariot.\" Its use in the sense of design and planning arose in the 19th century at the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris, where it was not unusual at the end of a term for teams of student architects to work right up until a deadline, when a charrette would be wheeled among them to collect up their scale models and other work for review. Their continued working furiously to apply the finishing touches came to be referred to as working \"en charrette\", \"in the cart.\" Émile Zola depicted such a scene of feverish activity, a \"nuit de charrette\" or \"charrette night,\" in \"L'Œuvre\" (serialized 1885, published 1886), his fictionalized account of his friendship with Paul Cézanne. The term evolved into the current design-related usage in conjunction with working right up until a deadline.\n\nThe word \"charrette\" may refer to any collaborative session in which a group of designers drafts a solution to a design problem.\n\nWhile the structure of a charrette varies, depending on the design problem and the individuals in the group, charrettes often take place in multiple sessions in which the group divides into sub-groups. Each sub-group then presents its work to the full group as material for further dialogue. Such charrettes serve as a way of quickly generating a design solution while integrating the aptitudes and interests of a diverse group of people. Although the structure of charrettes may vary, the general idea of a charrette is to create an innovative atmosphere in which a diverse group of stakeholders can collaborate to \"generate visions for the future\". Compare this term with workshop.\n\nCharrettes take place in many disciplines, including land use planning, or urban planning. In planning, the charrette has become a technique for consulting with all stakeholders. This type of charrette (sometimes called an enquiry by design) typically involves intense and possibly multi-day meetings, involving municipal officials, developers, and residents. A successful charrette promotes joint ownership of solutions and attempts to defuse typical confrontational attitudes between residents and developers. Charrettes tend to involve small groups, however the residents participating may not represent all the residents nor have the moral authority to represent them. Residents who do participate get early input into the planning process. For developers and municipal officials charrettes achieve community involvement, may satisfy consultation criteria, with the objective of avoiding costly legal battles. Other uses of the term \"charrette\" occur within an academic or professional setting, whereas urban planners invite the general public to their planning charrettes. Thus most people (unless they happen to be design students) encounter the term \"charrette\" in an urban-planning context.\n\nIn fields of design such as architecture, landscape architecture, industrial design, interior design, interaction design, or graphic design, the term \"charrette\" may refer to an intense period of work by one person or a group of people prior to a deadline. The period of a charrette typically involves both focused and sustained effort. The word \"charrette\" may also be used as a verb, as in, for example, \"I am charretting\" or \"I am on charrette [or: en charrette],\" simply meaning I am working long nights, intensively toward a deadline.\n\nAn example of a charrette occurred in Florida in 1973 when the future residents of the Miccosukee Land Co-op in Tallahassee traveled by auto caravan to Orlando and spent the weekend at the offices of the King Helie Planning Group of Orlando (sleeping on the floor) working with its staff to develop the community's land use plans; features desired by individual members and acceptable to the group included a perfectly circular lot, a huge treehouse lot, and streets named after Beatles songs (such as \"The Long and Winding Road\". \"Penny Lane\", \"Abbey Road\"). A more recent example, from New College of Florida, is their Master Plan Design Charrettes that took place over a week in 2005 involving students, alumni, administrators, professors, area residents, and local government staff members as well as architects, designers, and planners from Moule & Polyzoides, The Folsom Group, the Florida House Institute for Sustainable Development, Hall Planning & Engineering, and Biohabitats in a process to make long-range suggestions for the campus layout, landscaping, architecture, and transportation corridors of the master plan for its campus.\n\nIn some cases, a charrette may be held on a recurring basis, such as the annual charrette held by the Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning department at Utah State University. Each February, the faculty choose a site in partnership with communities and groups throughout Utah, and hold an intense 5-day design charrette focusing on particular issues in that community or region. The charrette begins with a field visit, followed by all-day work sessions accompanied by project stakeholders and volunteer landscape architects and other professionals, and overseen by senior and graduate level students. The final work is then presented to the community. Charrettes such as these offer students and professionals the opportunity to work together in a close setting on real-world design scenarios, and often provide communities with tens of thousands of dollars of design work for free.\n\nThe Schools of Architecture at Rice University and at the University of Virginia call the last week before the end of classes \"Charrette\". At the final deadline time (assigned by the school), all students must put their \"pencils down\" and stop working. Students then present their work to fellow students and faculty in a critiqued presentation.\n\nMany municipalities around the world develop long-term city plans or visions through multiple charrettes - both communal and professional. Notable successes on the west coast of Canada include the city of Vancouver, British Columbia , as well as the District of Tofino. Tofino won an Award of Excellence in Planning after a successful multi-day charrette.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8928361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8928361", "title": "Christine Panushka", "text": "Christine Panushka\n\nChristine Panushka is an independent filmmaker, freelance animator, artist and teacher. She is a Professor in the John Hench Division of Animation and Digital Arts at the USC School of Cinematic Arts.\n\nPanushka received her MFA in Experimental Animation from the California Institute of the Arts in 1983. During her studies at CalArts, she was mentored under Jules Engel and Don Levy. With Dr. William Moritz, she taught a class called \"The Aesthetics of Experimental Animation\", which was offered only one time. They were expanding on the scholarly writing of the topic of experimental animation, a subject in which little had been written until that time. In the late 1990s, she was associate director of that same program. She has also taught animation to talented high school students at California State Summer School for the Arts.\n\nHer film work includes \"Nighttime Fears and Fantasies: A Bedtime Tale for a Young Girl\" and \"The Sum of Them\". She is also the creator of the award-winning website \"Absolut Panushka\", which featured artwork by Priit Pärn, Jules Engel, Kihachiro Kawamoto, Ruth Hayes, The DeNoojiers and others, during its premiere. The site is no longer active, but an archive of the pages is maintained by the iotaCenter, an organization dedicated to the exhibition and preservation of abstract and experimental animation.\n\n"}
{"id": "15406175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15406175", "title": "Counterpoise", "text": "Counterpoise\n\nCounterpoise (1997-2011) is an alternative review journal formerly based in Gainesville, Florida (United States). It was founded in 1997 by Charles Willett (1932-2012), as a project of the AIP Task Force of the American Library Association's Social Responsibilities Round Table. In January 2001, Counterpoise became a project of the Civic Media Center (an alternative library also located in Gainesville, Florida). Counterpoise magazine focused on marginalized publications—books, magazines, and films on controversial topics or viewpoints that are not adequately represented in American mainstream press. The magazine was released on a quarterly basis; one issue each year was a double issue.\n\nCounterpoise operated as a collective, wherein all members participated in the process of creating and publishing the magazine. The Collective was composed of volunteers and student interns from the University of Florida and Florida State University. The magazine was distributed throughout the US, Canada, Great Britain, and Europe; subscribers and contributors came from a wide range of fields and included historians, journalists, librarians, teachers, and activists of all stripes. Both the CMC and Counterpoise are non-profit organizations.\n\nIn 2011, Charles Willett retired as founding editor and publication of the journal ceased. Back issues can still be ordered through the CMC.\n\nFormer volunteers from the Counterpoise collective and the CMC produce a weekly talk radio show for Gainesville's low power FM station WGOT-LP 94.7, which began broadcasting in January 2008. The show (Counterpoise Radio) airs locally on Fridays at 2pm.\n\n"}
{"id": "40107286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40107286", "title": "Digital scholarship", "text": "Digital scholarship\n\nDigital scholarship is the use of digital evidence, methods of inquiry, research, publication and preservation to achieve scholarly and research goals. Digital scholarship can encompass both scholarly communication using digital media and research on digital media. An important aspect of digital scholarship is the effort to establish digital media and social media as credible, professional and legitimate means of research and communication. Digital scholarship has a close association with digital humanities, though the relationship between these terms is unclear.\n\nDigital scholarship may also include born-digital means of scholarly communication that are more traditional, like online journals and databases, e-mail correspondence and the digital or digitized collections of research and academic libraries. Since digital scholarship is concerned with the production and distribution of digital media, discussions about copyright, fair use and digital rights management (DRM) frequently accompany academic analysis of the topic. Combined with open access, digital scholarship is offered as a more affordable and open model for scholarly communication.\n\nAccording to Ernest L. Boyer in Scholarship Reconsidered, discovery, integration, application, and teaching are the four main aspects of scholarship. The growth of digital media means that the main areas of scholarship can each benefit from expansions in their own way thanks to the infinite sharability of digital content.\n\nIn education, the main areas of relevance are science, technology, engineering and math. It is said that students learn best in a classroom when they are actively engaged. The emergence of digital scholarship and digital media allows for another means for students to become engaged. Key areas of academia that digital media is used on are to illustrate concepts, model displays and reinforce 21st century skills.\n\nCritics cite concerns about the legitimacy, accessibility and verifiability of digital scholarship and the erosion of authors' rights as reasons to be concerned about digital scholarship. As scholarly communication evolves, controversy over the definition and value of the term \"digital scholarship\" is likely to continue.\n\nDigital scholarship must take all of cultural, economic, personal, and institutional responsibilities to take its position as academic scholarship and to realize the core purpose of higher education with the possibilities of our time.\n\nConcerns with how to regulate digital scholarship have arisen across universities across the world. The explosion in availability and creation of scholarly works has led many universities to adjust their policies on how they will manage scholarship in the future. These universities feel pressured to take action because digital technologies have led to the easy reproduction and commodification of these creations. Many universities are unclear how to address the copyrighting of online classes and media presentations. Current law does not cover these specific areas of media produced in the academic world. In the past any printed work done by professors was considered their intellectual property, but now the question stands as to who owns these different forms of multimedia. One of the main concerns of faculty is that universities will soon take ownership of this digital media.\n\nUniversities have taken a growing interest in creations that have revenue-generating potential, like online classes or lecture slides, while also showing concern for products that may be used by comparable institutions, potentially reducing their competitive advantage. In order to stay on top of others academically, universities have sought to keep the intellectual property created within the university away from others schools. Not only are universities using digital scholarship to make money and stay ahead, but they also have interests in protecting their brand.\n\nWhile universities attempt to protect digital scholarship, it is in many professors best interests for their creations to be seen by the world as to grow their brand and acclaim as a professor. Laws that may apply to digital scholarship are largely outdated but professors would like to use the argument of faculty ownership of traditional works as historical practice and practice compatible with mission of higher education as a public good. Professors argue that it took time and serious effort to make the presentations, slides, media. To date professors have been rarely questioned whether they have the right to bring their course outlines, lecture outlines, and lecture notes with them if they decide to leave the university where they created them. Change over the ability of professors to bring digital scholarship with them is expected as universities have begun to take notice and assert copyrights. Professors will argue that since they are the creators and authors of the product they are the owners according to law.\n\nAs of now most copyright laws in America indicate that the author or creator holds the copyright, but the same cannot be said for digital scholarship. The law explicitly states that if the work is within the scope of his or her employment then the work is the property of the employer. Since the employer here would be the university, professors are technically creating work for hire. While faculty of universities appear to not be credited for their work, the primary reason for a university to take ownership of a faculty's work is that the member created the work using university funds mostly. Solutions to the lack of clear laws regarding ownership of digital scholarship are not currently being created but many universities have created written contracts with professors over who owns future work or what they can do with previous work.\n\nFor example, in the U.S. Supreme Court case \"Stanford v. Roche\", the court decided that Roche, a former Stanford researcher, was a co-owner with Stanford of patents for testing kits to detect HIV. While this case does not deal with digital scholarship directly, it deals with the ownership of intellectual property of university employees when they leave. This case will set a precedent for future decisions with online classes, lecture notes, and outlines.\n\nThe National Education Association (NEA), the largest professional educational association in the United States, updated its policy on digital learning in 2013. The policy stresses that students need to develop \"advanced critical thinking and information literacy skills and master new digital tools,\" as well as \"the initiative to become self-directed learners while adapting to the ever-changing digital information landscape.\" The NEA also believes that digital learning creates an environment in which learning can be more individualized to meet the needs of each student. The NEA mandates that all public schools must do their best to acquire necessary modern technologies and constantly revise teaching plans to incorporate technology where viable to best prepare students for the 21st century. The NEA's digital learning policy also states that technology must be used in an adaptive manner as to not become a distraction and to remain a tool, as well as that technology should not become a replacement for instructors, merely a supplement.\n\n"}
{"id": "55596565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55596565", "title": "ESCE International Business School", "text": "ESCE International Business School\n\nESCE International Business School (ESCE - Ecole Supérieure du Commerce Extérieur) is a business school founded in 1968 by Business France (French Office for International Trade) and located in Campus Eiffel, Paris. It is a member of France's \"Conférence des Grandes Ecoles\" since 2012. The school has ~ 2,500 students and 9,300 Alumni.\n\nThe school offers Bachelor degrees, internationally accredited Masters in Management and Summer Programs.\n\nAmong famous speakers, former Prime Ministers Tony Blair, Jean-Pierre Raffarin, Michel Rocard and Alain Juppé contributed to conferences at ESCE.\n\nThe Paris-based business school is renowned in France and Europe for its network of entrepreneurs, who founded some notable french start-ups (Zenly, Simplified, Sixth June, Interactive Mobility...).\n\nFrom 2001 till 2016, the school belonged to Laureate International Universities, that sold all their French assets to perform their IPO. The school now belongs to APAX Partners investment fund, which owns the INSEEC U network.\n\nThe school delivers a Master in Management with EFMD EPAS accreditation as well as French Ministry of Higher Education and Research accreditation. It also cofounded the Consortium of International Double Degrees (CIDD).\n\nESCE specializes in International Affairs. For long it has been the most demanded school within SÉSAME Examination (famous Business School examination in France), of which it was a founding member in 1992.\n\nIt is renowned for its dual degree with Berlin School of Economics & Law, often referred as one of Germany's best Business Schools, as well as its dual degree with UIBE Beijing, one of China's remarkable Business schools.\n\n (Associated Professor since 2010) - ENA Graduate (Promotion Voltaire), Former Congressman (député), Business Man, President of European & Global Affairs at CESE (Conseil Economique, Social et Environnemental), founder of ESCE Centre Asie.\n\nAlexandre de Rothschild, Chairman of Rothschild & Co bank.\n\n\nZenly, acquired by Snapchat in 2017 for USD 250 to 350 Million, quoted by Les Echos to be part of top 10 most expensive french start-ups ever created.\n\nSimplifield, analytics platform for the retail industry, USD 4 Million raised.\n\nInteractive Mobility, entertainment platform for planes and cabs; €4 Million fundraising ongoing.\n"}
{"id": "35007306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35007306", "title": "Fisher v. University of Texas (2013)", "text": "Fisher v. University of Texas (2013)\n\nFisher v. University of Texas, 570 U.S. ___ (2013), also known as Fisher I (to distinguish it from the 2016 case), is a United States Supreme Court case concerning the affirmative action admissions policy of the University of Texas at Austin. The Supreme Court voided the lower appellate court's ruling in favor of the University and remanded the case, holding that the lower court had not applied the standard of strict scrutiny, articulated in \"Grutter v. Bollinger\" (2003) and \"Regents of the University of California v. Bakke\" (1978), to its admissions program. The Court's ruling in \"Fisher\" took \"Grutter\" and \"Bakke\" as given and did not directly revisit the constitutionality of using race as a factor in college admissions.\n\nThe suit, brought by undergraduate Abigail Fisher in 2008, asked that the Court declare the University's race-conscious admissions inconsistent with \"Grutter\", which had in 2003 established that race had an appropriate but limited role in the admissions policies of public universities. While reasserting that any consideration of race must be \"narrowly tailored\", with \"Fisher\" the Court did not go on to overrule \"Grutter\", a relief for political activists who feared that the Court would end affirmative action.\n\nThe United States District Court heard \"Fisher v. University of Texas\" in 2009 and upheld the legality of the University's admission policy in a summary judgment. The case was appealed to the Fifth Circuit which also ruled in the University's favor. The Supreme Court agreed on February 21, 2012, to hear the case. Justice Elena Kagan recused herself because she served as the Solicitor General when the Department of Justice filed an \"amicus curiae\", or friend-of-the-court, brief in the Fisher case when it was pending in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. On June 24, 2013, the Fifth Circuit's decision was vacated, and the case remanded for further consideration in a 7–1 decision, with Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg dissenting. Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas filed concurring opinions.\n\nApplying the Supreme Court's 2013 decision, the Fifth Circuit once again found for UT Austin in 2014. Fisher again appealed the Fifth Circuit's decision, and in 2016 the Supreme Court upheld the lower court in a 4–3 decision.\n\nPlaintiffs Abigail Noel Fisher and Rachel Multer Michalewicz applied to the University of Texas at Austin in 2008 and were denied admission. The two women, both white, filed suit, alleging that the University had discriminated against them on the basis of their race in violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. At the time that the initial lawsuit was filed, the University of Texas at Austin accepted students in the top 10% of each Texas high school's graduating class, regardless of their race; under Texas House Bill 588, 81% of 2008's freshman class were admitted under the plan. (Starting with the fall 2010 admission class, Senate Bill 175 adjusted this rule to the top 7 percent, but with no more than 75 percent of freshman slots filled under automatic admissions.)\n\nApplicants who, like Fisher, failed to gain acceptance by automatic admissions can still gain admission by scoring highly in a process that evaluates their talents, leadership qualities, family circumstances, and race. Fisher had a grade point average of 3.59 (adjusted to a 4.0 scale) and was in the top 12% of her class at Stephen F. Austin High School. She scored 1180 on her SAT (measured on the old 1600-point scale, because UT Austin did not consider the writing section in its undergraduate admissions decision for the 2008 incoming freshman class). The 25th and 75th percentiles of the incoming class at UT-Austin were 1120 and 1370. She was involved in the orchestra and math competitions and volunteered at Habitat for Humanity.\n\nDuring the case proceedings, Fisher enrolled at Louisiana State University, from which Fisher graduated in 2012 with a degree in finance. In 2011, Michalewicz withdrew from the case, leaving Fisher as the sole plaintiff.\n\nIn 2009, United States District Court judge Sam Sparks upheld the University's policy, finding that it meets the standards laid out in \"Grutter v. Bollinger\". That decision was affirmed by a Fifth Circuit panel composed of judges Patrick Higginbotham, Carolyn Dineen King and Emilio M. Garza. In his ruling, Higginbotham wrote that the \"ever-increasing number of minorities gaining admission under this 'Top Ten Percent Law' casts a shadow on the horizon to the otherwise-plain legality of the \"Grutter-like\" admissions program, the Law's own legal footing aside\".\n\nA request for a full-court en banc hearing was denied by a 9–7 vote by circuit judges.\n\nIn September 2011, lawyers representing Fisher filed petition seeking review from the Supreme Court. The plaintiff's legal team was assembled by the Project on Fair Representation, a Washington, D.C.-based legal defense fund active in attempts to overturn race-based laws, whose legal fees were paid by Donors Trust, a conservative donor-advised fund. On February 21, 2012, the court granted \"certiorari\" in \"Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin\". Justice Elena Kagan recused herself from the case and did not participate in the court's discussions. Kagan's recusal was most likely due to her involvement with the case while she was Solicitor General.\n\n\"Amicus\" briefs were filed by Teach for America, the Asian American Legal Foundation, the Asian Pacific American Legal Center, the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund, the California Association of Scholars and Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence, the Black Student Alliance at The University of Texas, the Mountain States Legal Foundation, the Pacific Legal Foundation, Peter Kirsanow, Stuart Taylor, Jr., and many others.\n\nThe case was on the Supreme Court calendar for the term beginning in October 2012. There were concerns that if the Court overruled \"Grutter\", affirmative action at public universities would end in the United States. Some argued that the result of such a ruling would decrease the number of black and Hispanic students admitted to American universities while increasing the proportion of white and Asian students.\n\nOn October 10, 2012, the Supreme Court heard oral arguments in the case. Bert Rein represented the petitioner, Gregory G. Garre, a former Solicitor General, represented the respondent, the university, and Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, Jr., presented the government's stance in support of the respondent.\n\nDuring the beginning of the petitioner’s argument, Justices Sotomayor and Ginsburg asked questions about whether the case was moot. Specifically, they were concerned with the university's arguments that Fisher would not have earned admission regardless of her race, that she had already graduated from college, and that she only named the $100 application fee as real damages. Scalia commented that the harm of racial discrimination alone created an active controversy under the Court’s previous Equal Protection jurisprudence.\n\nJustices Scalia, Alito, and Roberts asked many questions about the definition of a “critical mass”, which \"Grutter\" named as the central measure of diversity. Scalia started calling it a “critical cloud” after the university’s lawyer failed, upon multiple requests, to define the central measure of diversity. Chief Justice Roberts asked whether an applicant who was one-quarter or one-eighth Latino would be permitted by the University to check the “Latino” box. Garre responded that the applicant was entitled to self-identify as any race, subject to discipline under the university's honor code, and that the University did not ever question that determination.\n\nLegal analysts concurred that the process of oral argument indicated that a majority of the justices disliked the university's position.\n\nThe opinion was issued on June 24, 2013—unusually late given that it was argued in October 2012. In a 7–1 decision, the Court vacated and remanded the Fifth Circuit's ruling. Writing for the majority, Justice Kennedy concluded that the Fifth Circuit failed to apply \"strict scrutiny\" in its decision affirming the admissions policy. Instead, he wrote, the Fifth Circuit held that Fisher could only challenge \"whether the University's decision to use race as an admissions factor 'was made in good faith.' It presumed that the school had acted in good faith and gave petitioner the burden of rebutting that presumption\". Kennedy argued that per the \"Grutter \"ruling, the burden of evidence primarily lies with the university \"to prove that its admissions program is narrowly tailored to obtain the educational benefits of diversity\".\n\nJustice Scalia wrote a one-paragraph concurring opinion, stating that he still holds the view that he first expressed in his concurring opinion in \"Grutter\": \"The Constitution proscribes government discrimination on the basis of race, and state-provided education is no exception\". Because the petitioner did not ask to overturn the holding in \"Grutter\", that there is a compelling evidence in the educational benefits of diversity to justify racial preferences in university admissions, he joined with the majority in full.\n\nJustice Thomas wrote his own concurrence, stating his reasons for overturning \"Grutter\", and ruled that the use of race in higher education admissions violated the Equal Protection Clause. Thomas concluded that \"Grutter\" was a radical departure from the Court's application of the strict scrutiny test. According to Justice Thomas, strict scrutiny had only been previously satisfied where the state actor was acting to protect national security or to remedy its own past discrimination. He wrote that student body diversity was simply not important enough to override the presumption that race-based policies are unconstitutional.\n\nAdditionally, comparing such university admissions with desegregation, he wrote that \"there is no principled distinction between the University’s assertion that diversity yields educational benefits and the segregationists’ assertion that segregation yielded those same benefits\". He also wrote that he believed that such admissions programs may actually be more harmful: \"Blacks and Hispanics admitted to the University as a result of racial discrimination are, on average, far less prepared than their white and Asian classmates...the University’s discrimination does nothing to increase the number of blacks and Hispanics who have access to a college education generally...any blacks and Hispanics who likely would have excelled at less elite schools are placed in a position where underperformance is all but inevitable because they are less academically prepared than the white and Asian students with whom they must compete\".\n\nIn her dissenting opinion, Justice Ginsburg explained her reasons for affirming the Fifth Circuit's ruling. Noting that the university's 10% plan admitted students regardless of their race, she argued that \"the University’s admissions policy flexibly considers race only as a 'factor of a factor of a factor of a factor' ... and is subject to periodic review to ensure that the consideration of race remains necessary and proper to achieve the University's educational objectives ... As I see it, the Court of Appeals has already completed that inquiry, and its judgment, trained on this Court's \"Bakke\" and \"Grutter\" pathmarkers, merits our approbation\".\n\nIn June 2013, the Supreme Court ruled the Fifth Circuit had failed to apply strict scrutiny to the university's race-conscious admissions policy and sent the case back to the Fifth Circuit court. In November, the Fifth Circuit court heard oral arguments from both sides. In their questions during the arguments, Judges Patrick Higginbotham, Carolyn Dineen King, and Emilio M. Garza focused on the way the university defines \"critical mass\" as well as past attempts the university has made to increase minority enrollment.\n\nOn July 15, 2014, the Fifth Circuit announced its decision in favor of UT Austin, with Judge Garza dissenting. In its decision, the majority wrote, “It is equally settled that universities may use race as part of a holistic admissions program where it cannot otherwise achieve diversity.” Fisher sought a rehearing en banc with the Fifth Circuit which was denied on 12 of November in a 10–5 decision. Fisher then filed a petition for certiorari to the Supreme Court.\n\nOn June 29, 2015, the Supreme Court announced that they would hear another challenge to UT Austin's admissions policy. The case was assigned docket number 14-981 and oral arguments were heard on December 9. Legal analysts predict from the justices' questions that the Court would likely either remand the case again to the lower courts for additional fact-finding, strike down UT Austin's policy, or strike down affirmative action in college admissions nationwide.\n\nDuring oral arguments, Justice Scalia raised the mismatching theory and questioned whether black students admitted to top-tier schools suffer because the courses are too difficult. Scalia commented that \"There are those who contend that it does not benefit African Americans to get them into the University of Texas, where they do not do well, as opposed to having them go to a less-advanced school, a slower-track school where they do well. One of the briefs pointed out that most of the black scientists in this country don't come from schools like the University of Texas. They come from lesser schools where they do not feel that they're being pushed ahead in classes that are too fast for them.\" The comments led to outcry from the University of Texas's African American students, and spurred the creation of the Twitter hashtag #StayMadAbby. As Justice Antonin Scalia died on February 13, 2016 and Justice Elena Kagan recused herself, the case was decided by the seven remaining justices. On June 23, 2016, a 4-3 vote affirmed the Fifth Circuit's decision for UT Austin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11575417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11575417", "title": "François Rabelais University", "text": "François Rabelais University\n\nFrançois Rabelais University (French: \"Université François-Rabelais\") or University of Tours (\"Université de Tours\"), is a public university in Tours, France. The university is named after the French writer François Rabelais, and was founded in 1969. As of July 2015 it is a member of the regional university association Leonardo da Vinci consolidated University.\n\nThe University of Tours was established as part of efforts to modernize and democratize higher education in France after the events of 1968. The university was created by grouping together a number of older educational institutions.\n\nThe university has seven campuses, distributed across the city of Tours:\n\nThe university comprises seven departments, as well as an engineering school and two technology institutes: \n\nThe university offers bachelor, master and doctorate degrees in line with the Bologna Process. It also provides Technological Diploma courses (\"diplômes universitaire de technologie\") through the two University Institutes of Technology. Several other institutions operate within the framework of the university:\n\nResearch at the University is at the forefront in the social sciences and humanities in the study of the Renaissance through the Graduate Center of the Renaissance since 1956 and in knowledge of food heritage through a program ambitious research at the Institute of European history and culture of food.\n\nThe University of Tours is also distinguished in the field of materials for energy technology research with the Microelectronic at CERTEM in collaboration with ST Microelectronics in 1996.\n\nThe research also extends into the field of medical imaging and bio-medicine, oncology, and eminently in the study of autism at the University Hospital of Tours. Geo-science and environment with the study of insects at the Institute for Research on the biology of the insect (IRBI). Since 1969 the CESA, Planning Department today Polytech'Tours research in the field of cities, territories and societies is deemed to France. Finally the University of Tours works in the field of mathematical research through the Laboratory of Theoretical Physics and Mathematics.\n\nIn 2016, the Center for World University Rankings placed François Rabelais University 682nd in the world and 30th in France.\n\nLaw\n\nFrançois Rabelais University undergraduate law program is ranked 3rd in France by Eduniversal, with 3 stars (2016/17).\n\nWell-known alumni of the university include France 3 journalist Marie-Laure Augry, TF1 journalist Harry Roselmack and member of the National Assembly Philippe Briand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48945081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48945081", "title": "Fyodor Iordan", "text": "Fyodor Iordan\n\nFyodor Ivanovich Iordan, or Jordan (Russian: Фёдор Иванович Иордан; 13 August 1800, Pavlovsk - 19 September 1883, Saint Petersburg) was a Russian engraver and art professor. He was best known for portraits and reproductions of the Old Masters.\n\nHis father was the upholsterer for the Imperial Court. He was enrolled in the primary school courses at the Imperial Academy of Arts and, in 1819, entered the engraving class, serving as an apprentice of Nikolai Utkin. He graduated in 1824 and received a gold medal for his engraving, \"Mercury lulls Argus\", after a painting by Pyotr Sokolov. Shortly after, he was awarded another gold medal at one of the Academy's exhibitions for his rendering of the \"Dying Abel\", after a work by Anton Losenko.\nIn 1829, he went to Paris, where he studied with Théodore Richomme. When the July Revolution began, he moved to London, continuing his studies with Abraham Raimbach and John Henry Robinson. In 1834, he settled in Rome where, at the urging of Karl Briullov, he produced a huge engraving of the \"Transfiguration\" by Raphael, which took him twelve (some sources say fifteen) years to complete. As a result of this work, he became an honorary member of the Academy of Arts, Berlin and the Accademia delle Arti del Disegno in Florence. He was named an Academician by the Imperial Academy in 1844 and was awarded the title of Professor in 1850, when he returned to Saint Petersburg.\n\nAfter the death of in 1854, he became head of the engraving department at the Academy and was appointed an assistant curator for prints and drawings at the Hermitage. The following year, he married Varvara Pushchin (1833-1916), a close relative of the poet, Pyotr Pletnyov. In 1861, he gave private engraving lessons to Taras Shevchenko. He was promoted to head curator of prints after the death of Nikolai Utkin in 1863. Eight years later, he became a Rector in the painting and sculpture departments (the only time this position has been held by an engraver) and, in 1876, was named a superintendent in the mosaic division. Towards the end of his life, he was appointed Privy Councilor.\n\n"}
{"id": "28006180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28006180", "title": "George Joseph Gustave Masson", "text": "George Joseph Gustave Masson\n\nGeorge Joseph Gustave Masson (9 March 1819- 29 August 1888), was an English-born educational writer with a French father and an English mother.\nHe was born in London on 9 March 1819. \nHis father had served under Napoleon I, and survived the retreat from Moscow ; his mother was of English origin. \nGustave was educated at Tours, was exempted from military service as eldest son of a widow, and was awarded the diploma of 'Bachelier es Lettres' by the University of France on 8 August 1837. \nAfter some ten years of literary struggle in Paris, he came to England as tutor to the two sons of Captain Trotter of the Woodlands, Harrow, and was in 1855 appointed by Dr. Vaughan, headmaster of Harrow School, French master there. \nHe proved himself a good organiser, and took a prominent part in the life of the school. He was from 1869 Vaughan librarian and published a catalogue.\nMasson was an author and translator on a large scale, writing many books on French literature and history, and editing with much success numerous French classics for English students. \nHe was at the same time a frequent contributor to the \"Athenæum,\" and supplied the notes on French literature to the \"Saturday Review\" from soon after its foundation until 1880. \nHe gave up his Harrow mastership in the autumn of 1888, and died a few weeks later on 29 August at Ewhurst, Surrey, while on a visit to Sir Henry Doulton ; he was buried in Harrow churchyard. \nBy his wife, whose maiden name was Janet Clarke, and whom he married in 1843, he left two sons and two daughters.\nHis works were:\n\n"}
{"id": "620634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=620634", "title": "Glee club", "text": "Glee club\n\nA glee club is a musical group or choir group, historically of male voices but also of female or mixed voices, which traditionally specializes in the singing of short songs—glees—by trios or quartets. In the late 19th century it was very popular in most schools and was made a tradition to have in American high schools from then on. The first named Glee Club was founded in Harrow School in London in 1787, where an annual Glee competition is still held. Glee clubs were very popular in Britain from then until the mid-1850s but by then they were gradually being superseded by choral societies. \"Glee\" in this context does not refer to the mood of the music or of its singers, but to a specific form of English part song popular between 1650 and 1900, the glee. But by the mid-20th century, proper \"glee\" clubs were no longer common.\n\nThe term remains in contemporary use, however, for choirs established in North American colleges, universities, and high schools, although most American glee clubs are choruses in the standard sense, and rarely perform \"glees\".\n\nThe oldest collegiate glee clubs in the United States are, by year of foundation:\n\n\nThe oldest non-collegiate glee club in the United States is the Mendelssohn Glee Club, founded in 1866.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30307883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30307883", "title": "Guildhall Lectures", "text": "Guildhall Lectures\n\nThe Guildhall Lectures were an annual series of talks on the theme of communication, organised by the British Association.\n\nThe lectures, held in the London Guildhall, were sponsored and broadcast by Granada Television. The first set of three lectures were held in 1959, and they continued until at least 1984. Broadly on the theme of \"Communication in the Modern World\", they concerned the arts, sciences, politics and mass media.\n"}
{"id": "764387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=764387", "title": "Hooked on Phonics", "text": "Hooked on Phonics\n\nHooked on Phonics is a commercial brand of educational materials, originally designed for reading education through phonetics. First marketed in 1987, it used systematic phonics and scaffolded stories to teach letter–sound correlations (phonics) as part of children's literacy. The program has since expanded to encompass a wide variety of media, including books, computer games, music, videos, and flash cards in addition to books in its materials, as well as to include other subject areas. The target audience for this brand is primarily individuals and home school parents. The product was advertised extensively on television and radio throughout the 1990s.\n\nHooked on Phonics was developed in the 1980s by a father who wanted to help his son overcome his reading problems. The original Hooked on Phonics \"Learn to Read\" product was released by Gateway Educational Products in 1987.\n\nThe company built a successful business based upon significant advertising, leading to sales of over $100M per year. The product, along with its catchphrase \"Hooked on Phonics worked for me!\" (spoken by children in the product's television ads) and its telephone number \"1-800-ABCDEFG\" (now belonging to the Wilshire Law Firm), became widely recognized during the mid-1990s.\n\nIn 1994 the company was featured on the program \"Dateline NBC\" with an official from the FTC attacking the company for \"deceptive advertising\". The FTC and Gateway reached a settlement later, with Gateway agreeing to advertising ground rules and disclosure of all research data and consumer complaints. Nevertheless, the negative media coverage caused the company's sales to plummet and for the company to file for bankruptcy protection.\n\nThe year 2001 saw the introduction of test-taking strategies and study skills as part of the \"Hooked on School Success\" program and a new partnership with KinderCare Learning Centers to use materials in KinderCare's private child care facilities. \n\nIn 2004 the FTC fined the company, then called Gateway Learning Corporation, for retroactively changing their privacy policy without informing customers, and subsequently sharing private information about customers including children with outside marketing firms.\n\nIn 2005 the product line was acquired by Educate, Inc., who also operated Sylvan Learning, and began selling products in retail. In 2006 the company released a new line of educational programs including \"Hooked on Spanish\", \"Hooked on Handwriting\", and \"Hooked on Spelling\", among many others. \n\nBy 2007, the Hooked on Phonics program had been introduced in over 30 countries. \n\nHooked on Phonics was taken private in 2007 and the company renamed to Smarterville, Inc.\n\nThe flagship \"Learn to Read\" product underwent a major redesign, featuring DVDs, web customizations, and an entire new line of systematic phonics readers. It was launched in the summer of 2009. Sixty music videos were added, composed by Russell Ginns and featuring performances by Cathy Fink, Marcy Marxer and the a cappella group The Bobs.\n\nHooked on Phonics was acquired by Sandviks Inc., in 2011.\n\nTheir Hooked on Phonics mobile app for iOS and Android was launched in 2013. As of 2018, it has been download more and 500,000 times.\n\nHooked on Phonics' products have won several awards over the years, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21441960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21441960", "title": "Imi-Nova International Management Institute", "text": "Imi-Nova International Management Institute\n\nInstitutul Internaţional de Management \"IMI – Nova\" is an educational institution located in Chişinău, Moldova.\n\nIMI Nova – was established by the Rector Valentin Railean on 25 April 1995 as a joint venture between some public and private institutions — three Moldovan academic institutions: the State University of Moldova, the Academy for the Economic Studies and the Academy of Sciences); two French Universities: the University of Grenoble Pierre Mendes and The University of Paris XI; and three companies: Bucuria SA, Victoria Bank and AFU Dresden.\n\nThe mission of the IMI-Nova International Management Institute is to educate professional managers for integration into the modern globalized economy. IMI's core activities include MBA Programs, Executive Education Programs, Consulting Services, a Ph.D. in Business Administration Programs and research projects. It was the first such institutes in the post Soviet Union to offer a one-year MBA program based on a western European model and it has introduced the \"Bologna process\" and the \"European standard of Evaluation\".\n\nThe main training areas are economics, business management and international business management. The academic year is divided in semesters with an obligation to sit for exams within the provided deadline dates. Courses are delivered in three main languages: Romanian, Russian and French, with some course modules in Italian and English.\n\nThe IMI uses their computer center as a tool in business research as well as preparing students for continued professional success. Using the internet is greatly encouraged and classes are designed stressing the global impacts of information technology. The institute has international agreements with universities in other countries including the University of Genova in Italy, the University of Nice, the University NOVI of Amsterdam in the Netherlands, and the Link Campus University in Rome (Italy/Malta). In particular there is a close link to the State University of Nice Sophia Antipolis in France which follows the \"Bologna process\" for the MBA which is delivered following the ECTS system standard.\n\nAs of 2009 the Rector is Valentin Railean, the deputy rector for academic and administrative affairs is Corina Railean and from 2007 the deputy rector for international relations is Alessandro Figus. He was \"Honoris Causa\" of the Institute in 2005.\n"}
{"id": "1298051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1298051", "title": "Inspired (project)", "text": "Inspired (project)\n\nInspired is an ambitious new project being developed by the Science Museum in London, England. \nThe Science Museum holds some of the greatest collections of their kind in the world. However, it is currently only able to display around 8% of its objects, while the rest are hidden away from the public in deep storage at the Science Museum Swindon and Blythe House. \"Inspired\" aims to bring all of these objects together in an extensive, sustainable new facility at the Science Museum Swindon and open them up to the public, accompanied by comprehensive public engagement in science and engineering, learning programmes and outdoor events.\n\n"}
{"id": "4472367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4472367", "title": "Inter-University Council for East Africa", "text": "Inter-University Council for East Africa\n\nThe Inter-University Council for East Africa (IUCEA), based in Kampala, Uganda, is an institution of the inter-governmental organisation, the East African Community. IUCEA aims to foster collaboration between universities in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Burundi, Rwanda and South Sudan.\n\nHistorical Background\n\nIn East Africa regional higher education interactions and cooperation originates from the pre-independence era when Makerere University College was the only higher education institution in the region serving students from Kenya, the then Tanganyika, and Zanzibar in East Africa\n\nas well as from the then Rhodesia and Nyasaland in central and southern Africa, which now consist of Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Later in 1963, university colleges were formed in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam as constituent colleges of the then University of East Africa that had been established during the era of independence of the four countries (Uganda, Kenya, Zanzibar and Tanganyika). Makerere College was the third constituent college of the University of East Africa.\n\nIn 1970, the University of East Africa was dissolved and the University of Dar es Salaam, Makerere University and the University of Nairobi were established as separate national universities for Tanzania, Uganda and Kenya respectively. In the same year, due to the need to maintain collaboration between these universities the Inter-University Committee (IUC) was established under the auspices of the first EAC. The role of IUC was to facilitate contact and cooperation among the three universities (University of Dar es Salaam, Makerere University and University of Nairobi). IUC was hosted in Kampala, Uganda. In 1977, the former EAC collapsed and the support that IUC was receiving from the Partner States declined. However, IUC continued to coordinate cooperation between the three universities albeit with resource constraints that severely limited its functions.\n\nEstablishment of IUCEA\n\nIn 1980, after consultations involving permanent/principal secretaries responsible for higher education in Uganda, Tanzania and Kenya, the vice chancellors of the universities in the three countries met in Nairobi (Kenya) to discuss the future of the cooperation of their institutions. They agreed to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) committing them to maintain cooperation between their universities within the IUC framework. The MoU was subsequently signed, which also led to the transformation of IUC into the current Inter-university Council for East Africa (IUCEA). The MoU spelt out the objectives, functions, membership and governance of IUCEA, and, just like IUC, IUCEA continued and still is hosted in Kampala, Uganda. IUCEA played its role very well until 1992 when decline in financial support from the three governments of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda made it impossible to carry out the collaborative activities. This raised concern about institutional sustainability and hence prompted a study by the Commonwealth Higher Education Management Services (CHEMS) between November 1998 and March 1999 with a view to revitalizing IUCEA. The aim of the study was to develop a viable strategy for expansion and sustainability of IUCEA.\n\nRevitalized IUCEA and Integration into EAC Framework\n\nThe Treaty for the Establishment of the current East African Community (The Treaty) was signed on 30 November 1999 and entered into force on 7 July 2000 following its ratification by the original three Partner States, namely Republic of Kenya, Republic of Uganda, and United Republic of Tanzania. The Republic of Burundi and the Republic of Rwanda acceded to the EAC Treaty on 18 June 2007 and became full Members of the Community with effect from 1 July 2007. Upon its re-establishment, EAC recognized IUCEA as one of the surviving institutions of the former Community. Therefore, it was agreed to establish IUCEA as an institution of the new EAC. In that process in 2000 IUCEA underwent revitalization following the recommendations of the CHEMS study and in 2002 the Ministers responsible for Higher Education of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda signed the IUCEA Protocol as an instrument that made IUCEA a legal body corporate of EAC.\n\nThe IUCEA Act, 2009\n\nIn 2009 the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) enacted the IUCEA Act 2009, thus effectively integrating IUCEA into the EAC operational framework. The Act spells out the objectives, functions, institutional set up and systems of governance and management of IUCEA. According to the Act any university, university college and degree awarding institution may apply for and get admitted to the IUCEA membership as long as it is properly incorporated in the EAC Partner State where it is operating and is pursuing objectives that are consistent with the functions of IUCEA as spelt out in the Act.\n\n\nSince 1970, Kenya was founding members of IUCEASince 1970, Kenya was founding members of IUCEASince 1970, Kenya was founding members of IUCEA\n"}
{"id": "12161724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12161724", "title": "International Dyslexia Association", "text": "International Dyslexia Association\n\nThe International Dyslexia Association (IDA) is a non-profit education and advocacy organization devoted to issues surrounding dyslexia. It is based in Baltimore, Maryland, United States.\n\nThe International Dyslexia Association serves individuals with dyslexia, their families, and professionals in the field. It has 9,000 members and it operates with more than 40 branches throughout the United States and Canada, and has global partners in twenty-one countries. IDA has an all-volunteer Board of Directors.\n\nThe IDA provides information about dyslexia on its website, publishes a peer-reviewed scientific journal (\"Annals of Dyslexia\"), publishes newsletter updates to members; provides referral services to individuals and professionals; advocates for the rights of individuals with dyslexia through the legal and Federal legislative systems. IDA is working to match increasing demand for teacher training and teacher preparation aligned with the IDA Knowledge & Practice standards. The IDA provides peer reviewed Fact Sheets and access to regional experts that together help support grassroots state and regional educational and advocacy efforts.\n\n"}
{"id": "37488066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37488066", "title": "Janet Currie", "text": "Janet Currie\n\nJanet Currie is a Canadian economist. She is the Henry Putnam Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton University and the Director of Princeton's Center for Health and Wellbeing. She served as the Chair of the Department of Economics at Princeton from 2014-2018. She also served as the first female Chair of the Department of Economics at Columbia University from 2006-2009. Before Columbia, she taught at the University of California, Los Angeles. She was named one of the top 10 women in economics by the World Economic Forum in July 2015. She was recognized for her mentorship of younger economists with the Carolyn Shaw Bell award from the American Economics Association in 2015.\n\nCurrie co-directs the Program on Families and Children at the National Bureau of Economic Research. She is a member of various professional associations including being elected member of the National Academy of Medicine (NAM), and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, American Academy of Political and Social Science and the Econometric Society. She is past president of the Society of Labor Economists and of the Eastern Economics Association, the in-coming President of the American Society of Health Economics, and previously served as vice-president of the American Economic Association. She has honorary degrees from the University of Lyon and the University of Zurich. She is also an affiliate of Institute for the Study of Labor (IZA) in Bonn, Germany. Currie has served as a member of the Advisory Committee on Labor and Income Statistics for Statistics Canada and as a consultant for the National Health Interview Survey and the National Longitudinal Surveys, and on the advisory board of the National Children's Study.\n\nShe served on the Board of Reviewing Editors for \"Science\" magazine from 2014-2018, and as the editor of the \"Journal of Economic Literature\" from 2010-2013. Currie currently serves on the advisory board for the \"Journal of Economic Perspectives\", and as Associate Editor for the \"Journal of Population Economics\". She has previously held editorial roles for numerous economic peer-reviewed journals, including the \"Quarterly Journal of Economics,\" the \"Journal of Health Economics,\" and the \"Journal of Public Economics.\"\n\nAlthough Currie published several studies early in her career about collective bargaining in the public sector, she is best known for her work on the impact of poverty and government anti-poverty policies on the health and well-being of children over their life cycle. She has written about early intervention programs, expansions of Medicaid program, public housing and food and nutrition programs. She is considered an expert on the topic of Head Start Program. In work with Duncan Thomas and Eliana Garces, she showed that children in Head Start made gains relative to their own siblings in terms of both test scores and longer-term measures of attainment. In work with Jonathan Gruber, she showed that expansions of public health insurance to low income women and children improved access to care and reduced infant mortality. Research on the effects of the safety net on American children is reviewed in her book, \"The Invisible Safety Net.\"\n\nCurrie has also investigated broader socioeconomic determinants of fetal and child health, including health care, child maltreatment, nutrition, pollution exposure, and maternal education and smoking behaviors. Her work showing that the adoption of EZ-Pass improved infant health in Pennsylvania and New Jersey received wide attention. Her work showing disparities in fetal exposure to pollution and their consequences is summarized in her 2011 Ely lecture to the American Economics Association. In work with Anna Aizer and Hannes Schwandt, she has shown that inequality in mortality is falling among U.S. children, at the same time that inequality in mortality among adults has been increasing, and attributed this improvement to the protective effect of safety net programs.\n\nShe is married to W. Bentley MacLeod, an economist at Columbia University, and together they have two children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2406984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2406984", "title": "KIPP (organization)", "text": "KIPP (organization)\n\nThe Knowledge is Power Program, commonly known as KIPP, is a nationwide network of free open-enrollment college-preparatory schools in under-resourced communities throughout the United States. charter school laws. KIPP is America's largest network of charter schools. The head offices are in San Francisco, Chicago, New York City, and Washington, D.C..\n\nKIPP was founded in 1994 by Mike Feinberg and Dave Levin, two Teach For America corps members. In 1995, they opened two KIPP middle schools, one in Houston and one in New York City. Both schools were among the highest-performing schools in their communities by 1999. KIPP was one of the charter school organizations to help produce the Relay Graduate School of Education for teacher training.\nKIPP began in 1994 after co-founders Dave Levin and Mike Feinberg completed their two-year commitment to Teach For America. A year later, they launched a program for fifth graders in a public school in inner-city Houston, Texas. Feinberg developed KIPP Academy Houston into a charter school, while Levin went on to establish KIPP Academy New York in the South Bronx. The original KIPP Academies have a sustained record of high student achievement.\n\nMore than 96% of KIPP students are African American or Latino/Hispanic; more than 87% are eligible for the federally subsidized meal program. Students are accepted regardless of prior academic record, conduct, or socioeconomic background. However KIPP schools typically have lower concentrations of special education and limited English proficiency (LEP) students, than the public schools from which they draw.\n\nDoris and Donald Fisher, co-founders of Gap Inc., formed a partnership with Feinberg and Levin to replicate KIPP's success nationwide. Established in 2000 with a $15 million grant from the Fishers, the nonprofit KIPP Foundation recruits, trains, and supports outstanding teachers in opening and leading high-performing college-preparatory public schools in educationally underserved communities. The foundation helps secure facilities and operating contracts while training school leaders through a yearlong fellowship called \"Fisher Fellows\" that includes a program of coursework, residencies at other KIPP Schools, and support from KIPP staff.\n\nKIPP students are admitted through a lottery system. After a student is selected from the lottery and the student decides that he or she would like to attend a KIPP school, a home visit is set up with a teacher or the principal of the school, who meets with the family and student(s) to discuss expectations of all students, teachers and the parents in KIPP. Students, parents, and teachers are then all required to sign a KIPP commitment of excellence, agreeing to fulfill specific responsibilities, promising that they will do everything in their power to help the student succeed and go to college.\n\nTeachers work approximately 60–80 hours a week and there is a great deal of teacher turnover.\n\nAs of spring 2015, 45 percent of KIPP students have earned a four-year college degree after finishing eighth grade at a KIPP middle school ten or more years ago. This is above the national average for all students (34 percent), and five times the rate of the average student from a low-income community (9 percent).\n\nKIPP has extended school days, requires attendance on Saturdays, offers extra-curricular activities, and adds three extra weeks of school in July. Most KIPP schools run from 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and 8:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. on select Saturdays (usually twice a month). KIPP has built partnerships with other organizations, such as the United Negro College Fund, to address financial issues that might be related to the high rate of college attrition for their alumni.\n\nDuring the school year, KIPP students can earn trips to visit colleges, go ice-skating, etc. At the end of the school year, the students can then attend an end of the school year field trip. These trips expose low-income students to new opportunities. For example, KIPP Academy Middle School in Houston, Texas, sends sixth graders to Utah and eighth graders to Washington, D.C., while fifth and seventh graders take a small trip within Texas for budget reasons. \n\n\nKIPP and similar operators of multiple charter schools are known as \"charter management organizations\" (CMOs). KIPP is the largest, with 209 schools. Another non-profit CMO, Imagine Schools, has 55.\n\nFor-profit rivals have shied away from managing any brick-and-mortar schools, preferring to offer online curricula and other services. These companies, including K12 and EdisonLearning are known as \"education management organizations\" (EMOs). K12 was the largest in the US in 2011-2012. K12 does not manage any brick-and-mortar schools, instead delivering schooling on line.\n\nIn June 2010, Mathematica Policy Research produced the first findings from a multi-year evaluation of KIPP: \"Using a matched comparison group design, results show that for the vast majority of KIPP schools in the evaluation, impacts on students' state assessment scores in math and reading are positive, statistically significant, and educationally substantial.\"\n\nA February 2007 strategy paper for the think tank the Brookings Institution commented favorably on the accomplishment of KIPP. \n\nA research report published in March 2005 by the Economic Policy Institute in book form as \"The Charter School Dust-Up: Examining the Evidence on Enrollment and Achievement\", however, described the degree to which KIPP's admission process selects for likely high achievers:\n\nSome observers, such as the authors of \"The Charter School Dust-Up\", say that KIPP's admission process self-screens for students who are motivated and compliant and come from similarly motivated, compliant as well as supportive families. The 2010 Mathematica Policy Research study found that KIPP schools had a \"lower concentration of special education and limited English proficiency students than the public schools from which they draw\".\n\nIn addition, some KIPP schools show high rates of attrition, especially for those students entering the schools with the lowest test scores. A 2008 study by SRI International found that while KIPP fifth-grade students who enter with below-average scores significantly outperform peers in public schools by the end of year one, \"60 percent of students who entered fifth grade at four Bay Area KIPP schools in 2003–04 left before completing eighth grade\", although research on attrition at one KIPP school in Massachusetts differs. The SRI report also discusses student mobility due to changing economic situations for student's families, but does not directly link this factor into student attrition. Figures for schools in all states are not readily available.\nWhile KIPP's goal is that 75% of KIPP students graduate from college, a report they released in April 2011 stated that the college graduation rate for students who completed the first middle school program in 1999 and 2000 was about 33%.\n\nThe report states that 95% of the students completed high school, 89% of the students went to college, and 33% of the students earned a degree. This is in contrast to only 70% completing high school, 41% going to college, and 8% earning a four-year degree for students in a similar economic background to that which KIPP draws from.\n\nOverall in the United States 83% of students complete high school, 62% enroll in college, and 31% complete a four-year degree.\n\nFor the overall graduation rate for students entering college in the United States one study found a value of 56% (Pathways to Prosperity Study), and another study found a value of 54% (American Dream 2.0 Report).\n\nKIPP's goal of a 75% college graduation rate is close to the 82% college graduation rate for students coming from the highest income quartile.\n\nJay Mathews, writing for \"The Washington Post\", was encouraged by the results from the KIPP report, although he pointed out that the sample size was only 200 students, and that after graduating from the KIPP middle school the students were no longer attending a KIPP school. Both Matthews and Kay S. Hymowitz writing for \"City Journal\" find the 75% goal to be ambitious.\n\nThe report published in April 2011 projects that KIPP students who graduate from college will increase from over 6,000 in 2014, to over 7,500 in 2015, to about 10,500 in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44027805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44027805", "title": "List of libraries in Japan", "text": "List of libraries in Japan\n\nThis is a list of libraries in Japan. As of 2008, there were 3,106 public libraries and private libraries in Japan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39062650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39062650", "title": "List of museums in Papua New Guinea", "text": "List of museums in Papua New Guinea\n\nThis is a list of museums in Papua New Guinea.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22054069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22054069", "title": "List of programs and colleges for non-traditional students", "text": "List of programs and colleges for non-traditional students\n\nThe following are tertiary education institutions, or programs within parent institutions, that are specifically intended for non-traditional students in North America.\nThere is also a ranking of top schools and programs for non-traditional students available at U.S. Top Schools/Programs for Non-traditional Students | Higher Education Rankings by IVRI\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42713905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42713905", "title": "Miscellaneous school", "text": "Miscellaneous school\n\nA miscellaneous school is a classification of schools under the education laws of Japan and South Korea.\n\n\"Kakushu gakkō\" (), or a \"miscellaneous vocational school,\" is a classification of schools in Japan, established by Article 134 of the School Education Act. Types of schools classified as miscellaneous schools include driving schools, vocational schools, and some international schools (such as the \"chōsen gakkō\" run by North Korea-aligned Chongryon). Due to this status they receive a smaller government subsidy than do ordinary Japanese private schools. Their graduates may also face difficulties registering to take entrance examinations for high schools and universities. For example, the Osaka Chinese School warns parents of prospective students that, while the municipal government of Osaka allows OCS graduates who are Chinese citizens and people of Chinese descent to sit for public high school examinations, the government has refused the same permission to OCS graduates who are Japanese citizens not of Chinese descent.\n\nAs of May 1, 2007, there were 120 \"miscellaneous schools\" that were not aimed at Japanese children; they included 79 \"chōsen gakkō\", five Chinese schools, four schools that serve either Brazilian or Peruvian () students, and one school affiliated with South Korea, along with 31 other international schools.\n\nRegulations setting out the standards for accreditation as a miscellaneous school were issued by the then-Ministry of Education in 1956. Under those regulations, the power to accredit miscellaneous schools was assigned to the prefectural governors. The accreditation standards thus differ by prefecture. For example, as of 2011, the minimum threshold for total assets as a proportion of yearly operational expense ranged from one-sixth to two-thirds, and some prefectures demand that miscellaneous schools own lands and buildings as a condition of accreditation, while others have relaxed this standard and allow schools which rent their facilities on a long-term or even short-term basis.\n\nSome international schools have been able to convert from \"miscellaneous school\" to so-called \"Article 1 school\" () status, making them ordinary recognised private schools under Japanese law. \"Chōsen gakkō\" have been unable to obtain this kind of official recognition as private schools, a situation which their supporters have described as discriminatory.\n\nThe classification of \"gakjong hakkyo\" () is defined in regulations promulgated under the authority of Article 60, Paragraph 3 of the Primary and Middle Education Act, and Article 59, Paragraph 3 of the Higher Education Act. Article 12 of the regulations defines schools for foreigners following the curricula of a foreign country as one type of \"gakjong hakkyo\".\n"}
{"id": "27056671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27056671", "title": "National Art Education Association", "text": "National Art Education Association\n\nThe National Art Education Association (NAEA) is a professional association founded in 1947 in the United States. It is the world's largest professional art education association.\n\nThe NAEA's annual convention attracts thousands of art educators and offers art educators a chance to network, establish mentor relationships, and attend professional development events. The NAEA also gives awards for Art Educator of the Year at this convention.\n\nAlong with the Art & Creative Materials Institute, in 1969, the NAEA began sponsoring March as Youth Art Month. Since 1984, Youth Art Month has been run by the Council for Art Education, Inc., which consists of representatives of the NAEA and other art associations.\n\nAs an advocacy organization, the NAEA speaks out in favor of increased funding for art education, and opposing cuts to art funding.\n\nThe NAEA publishes two journals, \"Art Education\" and \"Studies in Art Education\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31619878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31619878", "title": "National Skills Academy for Power", "text": "National Skills Academy for Power\n\nThe National Skills Academy for Power is a skills academy for the energy and power industry in the UK.\n\nThe National Skills Academy for Power was first announced in October 2008 by the Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills. Steve Davies was made the Chief Executive in September 2009. It was given formal government approval on 18 March 2010.\n\nIt was the 15th National Skills Academy. £2.9 million of funding for the project was allocated from the government.\n\nIt held its first Annual Conference and Awards Dinner on 9 March 2011 at Twickenham Stadium. This also included the People in Power Awards.\n\nIt is based near Monkspath on the A34, next to the Corus Hotel Solihull and the Monkspath business park close to junction 4 of the M42.\nIt is a partnership between the Sector Skills Council, Energy and Utility Skills, and several energy companies:\n\nIt also works in conjunction with the IET Power Academy, which was set up in 2004, an industry group that was formed by seven universities (Bath, Cardiff, Imperial College London, Manchester, Queen's University Belfast, Southampton and Strathclyde) and eighteen power companies.\n\nIt seeks to focus and coordinate UK-wide training in the power sector by standardising training materials. It also promotes the industry sector, specifically its career choices, in a way similar to a trade association. Similar work, on a much broader focus, is carried out by the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24243268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24243268", "title": "New York State College of Forestry at Cornell", "text": "New York State College of Forestry at Cornell\n\nThe New York State College of Forestry at Cornell was a statutory college established in 1898 at Cornell University to teach scientific forestry. The first four-year college of forestry in the country, it was defunded by the State of New York in 1903, over controversies involving the college's forestry practices in the Adirondacks. Forestry studies continued at Cornell even after the college's closing.\n\nThe idea of a Cornell Forestry school began with Colonel William F. Fox, Superintendent of New York's state-owned forests during the mid-1890s. At that time, forestry research and education was conducted only in Great Britain and Europe.\n\nWhen Governor Frank S. Black went on a fishing trip with a Cornell trustee and discussed Col. Fox's proposal, the suggestion was made that Cornell would be well-suited to implement the demonstration forest. Cornell President Jacob Gould Schurman then began lobbying for a state-funded college, just as he had successfully advocated for a state-funded veterinary college in 1894. The legislature quickly approved the new college. The act authorized New York State to pay for a tract of forest land in the Adirondacks from funds, previously appropriated for the acquisition of lands to be held \"forever wild\" in the Adirondack Forest Preserve, with Cornell holding title, possession, management, and control for 30 years. After 30 years, the land would revert to the State. Schurman recruited German trained, Dr. Bernhard E. Fernow, who was then the 3rd Chief of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Division of Forestry (predecessor of the U.S. Forest Service) and one of the top forestry experts in the United States, to be the first Dean of the college.\n\nFernow moved quickly to acquire a tract of land to serve as a demonstration forest and purchased some. Fernow's plan called for clearcutting the forestland at the rate of several thousand acres per year to prepare for planting conifers. He contracted with the Brooklyn Cooperage Company to take the logs and cordwood from the forest land for a 15-year period. In the 1890s, the more valuable red spruce trees had been logged, leaving primarily northern hardwoods. The years 1899, 1903, and 1908 were terrible years for forest fires in the Adirondacks. Many, tens of thousands of acres were consumed by forest fires. Most fires were started by sparks or embers flying from coal-burning locomotive stacks and landing on logging slash. Louis Marshall, with a summer residence at Knollwood Club on Lower Saranac Lake, branded locomotives as \"instruments of arson.\" The worst sin of the lumbermen was the fire menace that they left behind, and which caused incalculable destruction. Nevertheless, Fernow had a long railroad spur built from Axton to Tupper Lake in order to deliver logs to the Brooklyn Cooperage Company facility. The company turned the hardwood logs into barrels and the cordwood into methanol and charcoal, through a process called destructive distillation. Historic charcoal kiln photo: \nTo his credit, Fernow established the first tree nursery in New York State at Axton, the site of an old lumber settlement originally called Axe-town. But most of the non-native conifer species he planted, such as norway spruce, did not do well for many years, with a denuded area as a result. Smoke from the burning of brush and logging slash, along with Fernow's arrogant disposition toward landowners from nearby Saranac Lake further alienated the public. Fernow's actions drew criticism also from Adirondack guides such as Ellsworth Petty (father of Clarence Petty), who protested the plan and, in a letter writing campaign, successfully lobbied the State to assign a special \"Committee of the Adirondacks\" to tour the Axton site. In its findings, the commission concluded that \"the college has exceeded the original intention of the State when the tract was granted the university for conducting silvicultural experiments.\"\n\nIn 1898, the New York State College of Forestry opened at Cornell, which was the first forestry college in North America. Because some of the students were transfer students, even though the College had a four-year curriculum, it graduated students during each of the five years of its operation, and the demand for students with Cornell forestry degrees exceeded the supply. It also offered an optional fifth year for a professional masters in forestry degree.\n\nIn 1899, Fernow had been recruited as a member of New York's E.H. Harriman expedition to Alaska, along with fellow Cornellian Louis Agassiz Fuertes. The expedition set sail from Seattle on May 31, 1899, aboard the refitted steamer, the \"George W. Elder\". \"[Fernow's] research on the expedition was hampered by the fact that the coastal itinerary never gave him a look at the inland forests. His overview thus limited, he concluded that Alaska would never be a great source of timber: the wood was inferior and the conditions of lumbering too difficult. Some say that history has proven him wrong, but his opinion did have an effect: for a time, it discouraged commercial interests from prospecting for timber in the Alaskan forests.\"\n\nIn 1902, Fernow founded and became editor-in-chief of the \"Journal of Forestry\", the pioneering scholarly journal in this field.\n\nThe demonstration forest, near Saranac Lake, in the Adirondacks drew heated opposition from neighboring land owners. With an annual state appropriation for the college of only $10,000, Cornell entered into a contract with Brookyn Cooperage Company for the project to be viable. The contract proved to be profitable and beneficial only for the company. Cornell gained insufficient funds to replant the clear-cut areas. A lawsuit was filed, naming the Brooklyn Cooperage Company as defendant with the People of New York State as plaintiff. (See \"People v. the Brooklyn Cooperage Company\".)\n\nAlthough the legislature had adopted the 1903 appropriation without debate, Governor Benjamin B. Odell made a pocket veto of funds for the school. In his statement, Governor Odell said: \"The operations of the College of Forestry have been subjected to grave criticism, as they have practically denuded the forest lands of the State without compensating benefits. I deem it wise therefore to withhold approval of this item until a more scientific and more reasonable method is pursued in the forestry of the lands now under the control of Cornell University.\"\n\nNotable alumni of the College included:\n\n\nDean Bailey and Dean Bernhard Fernow, of the Forestry College were the best of friends. In fact, on that night in May 1903 when the telegram arrived announcing Governor Odell's veto of the annual appropriation for the College of Forestry, Bailey and Fernow were together at a dance. Despite the bad news, the dance went on. Fernow did not want to let the veto end his school, and he continued to work without a salary. He proposed continuing the school by charging tuition to the students. (During this time, New York State students attended the College tuition-free.) However, Cornell's Board of Trustees and President Schurman (despite Bailey's urgings to the contrary) decided to close the doors of the Forestry College. In June, 1903, instruction in the College ceased and the faculty was dismissed. It was rumored, and with good reason, that a political bargain took place exchanging the College of Forestry, for the establishment of the New York State College of Agriculture at Cornell University in 1904. To quote Liberty Hyde Bailey, \"Last winter at Albany I was confronted by inquiries which indicated that the State would be willing to give to either a College of Forestry or a College of Agriculture, but not to both.\"\n\nJust as the legislative session of 1904 began in Albany, a most unexpected mishap occurred: at a hearing before the Federal Commission on Agriculture in Washington, the Secretary of Agriculture, James Wilson, attacked Cornell for not teaching \"Soil Physics\" and took the occasion to revive the old canards about Cornell misusing the riches conferred by the Morrill Act. He said of Cornell: \"They were better endowed than any institution in the land, yet never did anything.\" Cornell's President Jacob Gould Schurman demanded a hearing and spoke in Washington with his usual brilliance, refuting the Secretary point by point.\nMeanwhile, in Albany, Senator Ed Stewart of Ithaca introduced a bill drafted by Liberty Hyde Bailey,establishing the New York State College of Agriculture at Cornell. Leading the opposition was Chancellor James R. Day of Syracuse University. According to Schurman, \"the Chancellor led a pious army, the Methodists of the state. He was an angry man; his words breathe a rancor too hot to be contained by facts.\" He charged that Ezra Cornell had so \"manipulated\" the proceeds of the Morrill Act that more than four-fifths were improperly used. He demanded a share in state bounty equal to that accorded Cornell: \"Either give to all or not to any!\"\nBailey broadcast an immediate refutation, but Chancellor Day had already had his speech published by the Syracuse University Press without change. The Chancellor asked for a hearing before the Assembly's Ways and Means Committee. This request granted, he spoke at the hearing but the chairman and other legislators were insufficiently attentive to him, the Chancellor broke off in a fury and left the room,\"before he had adduced a single coherent argument.\" Dean Bailey, later put up a picture of Chancellor Day, in his office, with the subscription: \"Founder of the New York State College of Agriculture at Cornell.\"\nThe announcement of the final passage and signing of the bill, in Albany, creating the New York State College of Agriculture at Cornell was met with bonfires and the pealing of church bells in Ithaca. However, the price for this new state support at Cornell was the sacrifice of the New York State College of Forestry at Cornell.\n\nThe lawsuit, \"People v. the Brooklyn Cooperage Company\", was decided in favor of the People, and again on appeal in 1906; and the case defined forestry in the United States for a generation. The of forest lands were placed under the \"forever wild\" protection of the Adirondack Forest Preserve. At the conclusion of the case, constitutional lawyer Louis Marshall stated, \"I hold before me the decision in the case of the People against the Brooklyn Cooperage Company...the consequence of that was that this 'tremendous' tract of thirty thousand acres was to be cut down 'flat' from one end of it to the other, in order that the scientific foresters might start a new forest which might mature a hundred years from the time that that contract was entered into. This is scientific forestry?\".\n\nIn 1907, Bernhard E. Fernow became the first professor of forestry in a four-year baccalaureate degree program at Penn State, in State College, after having been the nation's first consulting forester since leaving Cornell and Ithaca in 1903. His office was in New York City. After teaching the 1907 spring semester at Penn State, Dr. Fernow left to become the first head of the Faculty of Forestry at the University of Toronto. He gave as a reason for leaving Penn State his argument with Dr.Joseph Rothrock that Penn State Mont Alto should not have departed from its role as a \"ranger school\" to pursue higher aspirations. Joseph Rothrock, an explorer, botanist and medical doctor founded the academy Penn State Mont Alto to train men for service in the state forests. It was one of three forestry schools in the nation in 1903, after Yale and Biltmore, respectively.\n\nIn 1910, Liberty Hyde Bailey, the Dean of Cornell's Agriculture College, succeeded in having what remained of the Forestry College transferred to his school. At his request, in 1911, the legislature appropriated $100,000 to construct a building to house the new Forestry Department on the Cornell campus, which Cornell later named Fernow Hall. That Forestry Department continues today as the Department of Natural Resources. In 1927, Cornell established a research forest south of Ithaca, the Arnot Woods.\n\nIn 1911, the State Legislature established a New York State College of Forestry at Syracuse University, but not without opposition from Cornell University. In 1930, the NYS Board of Regents questioned the need for duplicate, state-supported forestry programs at Cornell and Syracuse. A formal study resulted in an agreement in 1937 that the Syracuse program would be the only place for professional undergraduate training in forestry. Cornell's Department of Forestry continued with courses in \"farm\" forestry, to cooperative extension work in forestry, and to research and graduate education. In an exchange, Syracuse University agreed to abandon its School of Agriculture. However, in 2000, SUNY System Administration established ESF's \"primacy\" among the 64 SUNY campuses and contract colleges for development of new undergraduate degree programs in Environmental Science and Environmental Studies, but ESF does not have a veto power over competing new programs.\n\nForestry continued at Cornell, \nwith Dean Liberty Hyde Bailey adding a Department of Forestry to the New York State College of Agriculture at Cornell University in 1910-11. Walter Mulford, of the University of Michigan, was appointed as department chair. In 1914, noted forester Ralph Hosmer, a 1902 graduate of the Yale School of Forestry and contemporary of Gifford Pinchot, replaced Mulford as Professor and head of the Department of Forestry at the New York State College of Agriculture at Cornell University, a position he held until his retirement in June 1942.\n\nThe world-famous Cornell Lab of Ornithology was the brainchild of Professor Arthur A. \"Doc\" Allen, beginning in 1915. Louis Agassiz Fuertes (the son of Cornell's first civil engineering professor, Estovan Antonio Fuertes), America's most famous painter of bird-life, after John James Audubon, taught at Cornell from 1923 until his untimely death in 1927.\n\nCornell’s vertebrate museum’s fishes collection is particularly strong with great diversity in North American fishes, and minnows in particular. Beginning in the 1940s and continuing into the 1970s the fish collection was greatly expanded thanks to collections made by renowned Cornell ichthyologist Edward Raney and his students.\nThe Cornell Hortorium founded by Liberty Hyde Bailey in 1935, has historically been the major U. S. center for the systematics of cultivated plants.\n\nFollowing in the footsteps of the great botanist and horticulturist, Liberty Hyde Bailey, a most extraordinary plant physiologist, Frederick Campion Steward, arrived to teach and conduct research at Cornell University in 1950, as Professor of Botany. From his Cornell classrooms and laboratories, Steward was responsible for creating and inspiring a generation of botanists.\n\nIn 1978, the Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research relocated to the Ithaca campus from its original site in Yonkers, NY. Its history is extremely interesting and relevant.\n\nToday, Cornell University owns in its home county of Tompkins, including the \"Arnot Forest\" for teaching, demonstration, and research; the Uihlein maple syrup research forest near Lake Placid in the Adirondacks; Cornell Plantations: on campus, and 4,000 off-campus acres of diverse natural areas; and mineral rights on of land across the United States\n\nFounded in 1972, Cornell Outdoor Education is one of the largest college-based outdoor programs in the country. The Cornell Tree Climbing Institute is a more recent offshoot, having been founded in 2004\nCornell University was a founding member of the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest Research Foundation\n\nBy Raphael Zon, Director, Lake States Forest Experiment Station, United States Forest Service.\n“Reprinted with revised Bibliography, 1927, from Appendix V of the Final Report of the National Waterways Commission, 1912. (Senate Document No. 469, 62d Congress, 2d Session)”\n\n“Object of the Report”\n\n“ Of all the direct influences of the forest the influence upon the supply of water in streams and upon the regularity of their flow is the most important in human economy. Yet so many are the factors which play related parts in this influence, so great is the difficulty of observing them with precision, and so wide the range of economic interests affected, that considerable divergence of opinion has arisen on the subject. This, however, if prompted by a sincere desire to reach the bottom of a complicated and vital problem, can only be productive of results of the highest scientific value.”\n\n“ There is, perhaps no other problem facing the American people to-day which demands such care in the scientific accuracy of its data and conclusions as does the relation between forests and water. It is imperative, therefore, that no final conclusions be drawn in regard to this relation until ample, reliable, and critically revised evidence upon which to base them is available. A national policy which, though considering the direct value of forests as a source of timber, fails to take full account also of their influence upon erosion, the flow of streams, and climate, may easily endanger the well-being of the whole people.” (page 1)\n\nOn October 28, 2010, a gift of \"historic\" proportions from the son of a New Jersey chicken farmer created the Atkinson Center for a Sustainable Future at Cornell University, to position the university to be a global leader in the effort to create a sustainable future. The $80 million gift is the single largest gift to the Ithaca campus from an individual, and according to the \"Ithaca Journal\" (10/28/2010), the largest gift ever given to a university for sustainability research and faculty support.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52115578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52115578", "title": "Orgelkids", "text": "Orgelkids\n\nOrgelkids (Dutch, \"organkids\") is an educational project meant to familiarize and educate children with the pipe organ musical instrument. The project was initiated in the Netherlands in 2009 by Lydia Vroegindeweij and is directed towards cultural legacy and music education. Initially the project consisted of a website with educational tips and lesson suggestions to organize, among other projects, an excursion to a large pipe organ. Since 2013, Orgelkids has at its disposal a speciallly developed educational organ assembly kit. A complete, craftsman-built organ, in unassembled component parts, is contained in a lesson box. The instrument can be assembled and subsequently played. This so-called Do-organ is rented out by Orgelkids to organists, organ builders or organ teachers who want to organize educational projects for children.\n\nThe classical pipe organ is almost always built in a fixed location in a building and not very accessible for children. Due to increased secularization of society, fewer children attend churches, so they have fewer occasions to spontaneously experience a pipe organ. Many smaller churches in N. America have electronic organs. \nIn the Netherlands there is a wealth of historical organs. For the preservation and maintenance of this cultural legacy, it is important to encourage a continuing flow of new organists and organ builders. To prevent that knowledge and enthusiasm for organs continue to decline, Orgelkids has made a special instrument available to schools. An organist or organ builder visits the school with the Do-organ and supervises the students as they build/assemble the organ.\n\nAn organ in a lesson box is a unique concept, first conceived and built by Dutch organ builder Wim Janssen specially for the goal of educating children with the technology and playing of the organ. It is not a demonstration organ with just a few keys, but a real instrument with which children can self-discover how it works. That is the reason it was given the name, \"Do-organ.\"\nThe Orgelkids instrument is a mechanical, tracker organ with two octaves (24 keys) and two registers which can be used independently or in combination. Air (wind in organ parlance) is supplied by a hand-pumped bellows.\n\nAll the materials used are identical to those used in a large pipe organ (such as oak wood and sheep leather). Children experience the value and quality of craftsman-made instruments.\n\nThe lesson box is supplied with instruction manuals which include many photos, by which children can assemble the organ with a minimum of instructions, in about 45 minutes. In addition, there are other lesson materials available such as an instructional video by the builder, an e-book, and a presentation for a digital blackboard.\n\nTon Stevens, organist of the basilica of St. John in Oosterhout, the Netherlands, works with kids on World Animal Day in the basilica every year. First they build and play the Do-organ of Orgelkids, and afterwards the children can take a look at the \"real\" organ built by Maarschalkerweerd in 1890. Of course songs like \"Old MacDonald Had a Farm\" are played on the organ on the occasion of that special day.\n\nOrgelkids started in the Netherlands in 2013 with a single lesson box. The home for this organ is in the Amersfoort region, which is in the center of the country. In the first year, 1350 children were reached.\nIn 2015 it was expanded with a second organ which is based in Belgium, operating out of Antwerp. In its first year there, 800 children were reached.\n\nThe project has attracted more international attention. In Oregon a sister project, Orgelkids USA, an educational 501c3 nonprofit, was launched in 2016 with the mission to help grow a nationwide network of independent kits. They helped place five organ kits built by the US builders in their first year. Orgelkids USA kits are being commissioned to serve as regional resources by chapters of the American Guild of Organists as well as by non-profit organizations whose missions are pipe organ related. \nSince 2016, Orgelkids has been supporting the training of organ builders and the passing down of artisanal skills. Organ building shops can have apprentice builders work on an Orgelkids instrument during their practical training. In doing so they develop all manner of practical skills which are also needed in the building or restoration of large, monumental organs. After completion, the organ kit can be made available for educational projects.\nFor those who wish to build an organ kit themselves, building instructions are available including 20 technical drawings that correspond to the original organ.\n\nThe Orgelkids project has been brought into the Dutch \"Stichting Kerk Muziek Netwerk\" (Church Music Network Foundation) since 2013. This non-profit foundation engages to make relevant aspects of church music accessible to the greater public.\n\nUS-based Orgelkids USA was founded in June 2015 as a program of the Eugene Oregon USA chapter of the American Guild of Organists, and later incorporated on 29 August 2016 as a section-501(c)(3) non-profit organization. Orgelkids USA shares a similar educational and outreach agenda as the original Netherlands-based Orgelkids organization, serving as a pilot program for the US and helping grow a nationwide network of independent organ kits. Orgelkids USA was launched with a generous grant by the New York City American Guild of Organists (AGO) ' Centennial Millennium Fund, , similar grants from the San Francisco and Seattle chapters of AGO and a social media fundraising campaign. 2017 was an inaugural year of outreach programing in the USA with two Orgelkids USA kits reaching over 700 people. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "26594026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26594026", "title": "Pennco Tech", "text": "Pennco Tech\n\nPennco Tech is a technical school with locations in Bristol, Pennsylvania, and Blackwood, New Jersey. It was founded in 1973.\n\nPennco Tech awards certificates and diplomas in healthcare and technology fields. At Pennco Tech, all programs and areas of study have local advisory boards composed of industry business personnel assembled to make sure curriculum encompasses real-world need and experience.\n\n\nPennco Tech is accredited by the Accrediting Commission of Career Schools and Colleges of Technology.\n\nPennco Tech's Bristol, Pennsylvania campus is located at 3815 Otter St, Bristol, PA 19007. The Pennco Tech Bristol campus offers a plumbing and heating curriculum not available at Pennco Tech's Blackwood campus.\n\nPennco Tech's Blackwood, New Jersey campus is located at 99 Erial Rd, Blackwood, NJ 08012. The Pennco Tech Blackwood campus offers Diesel/Truck Technology and Mechanical/CAD Drafting curriculum not available at Pennco Tech's Bristol campus.\n\nIn 2011, Matthew Hamilton, a former admissions representative at Pennco, claimed that Pennco fired him for refusing to participate in a scheme that ensured every student who applied would be enrolled.\n\n"}
{"id": "41222882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41222882", "title": "Premlila Vithaldas Thackersey", "text": "Premlila Vithaldas Thackersey\n\nPremlila Vithaldas, Lady Thackersey (1894–1977) was an Indian educationist and Gandhian.\n\nShe was the wife of educationist and philanthropist Sir Vithaldas Thackersey. When her husband died in 1925, she was 31 years old, yet continued his work, both in the field of education and philanthropy and dedicated herself to the cause of women's education. She remained the chairperson of the Kasturba Gandhi National Memorial Trust (1956-1972), and also became the first Vice-Chancellor of SNDT Women's University in Mumbai.\n\nShe was awarded the Padma Vibhushan, India's second highest civilian honour given by Government of India in 1975, for her contribution in the field of education.\n"}
{"id": "229661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229661", "title": "Pseudophilosophy", "text": "Pseudophilosophy\n\nPseudophilosophy is a term, often considered derogatory, applied to criticize philosophical ideas or systems which are claimed not to meet an expected set of standards. The etymology of the term is based on appending the prefix pseudo- (\"false\") to the word philosophy (\"love of wisdom\"); another term to describe false philosophy is \"cod philosophy\".\n\nThe term has been used against many different targets, including:\n\nAccording to Christopher Heumann, an 18th-century scholar, pseudo-philosophy has six characteristics:\n\nAccording to Michael Oakeshott, pseudo-philosophy \"is theorizing that proceeds partly within and partly outside a given mode of inquiry.\"\n\nPieper notes that there cannot be a closed system of philosophy, and that any philosophy that claims to have discovered a \"cosmic formula\" is a pseudo-philosophy. In this he follows Kant, who rejected the postulation of a \"highest principle\" from which to develop Transcendental idealism, calling this pseudo-philosophy and mysticism.\n\nNicholas Rescher, in \"The Oxford Companion to Philosophy\", describes \"pseudo-philosophy\" as \"deliberations that masquerade as philosophical but are inept, incompetent, deficient in intellectual seriousness, and reflective of an insufficient commitment to the pursuit of truth.\" Rescher adds that the term is particularly appropriate when applied to \"those who use the resources of reason to substantiate the claim that rationality is unachievable in matters of inquiry.\"\n\nAccording to Pieper, for Pythagoras, Plato and Aristotle philosophy is the human search \"oriented toward wisdom such as God possesses\". It suggests that philosophy includes, in its essence, an orientation toward theology. Pieper notes:\nThe term \"pseudo-philosophy\" appears to have been coined by Jane Austen.\n\nErnest Newman (30 November 1868 – 7 July 1959), an English music critic and musicologist, who aimed at intellectual objectivity in his style of criticism, in contrast to the more subjective approach of other critics, published in 1897 \"Pseudo-Philosophy at the End of the Nineteenth Century\", a critique of imprecise and subjective writing.\n\nThe term is almost always used pejoratively and is often contentious.\n\nAccording to Bunge,\nFor Kant, intellectual knowledge is discursive knowledge, not intuitive knowledge. According to Kant, intuition is limited to the realm of senses, while knowledge is \"essentially realised in the acts of researching, relating, comparing, differentiating, inferring, proving\". Kant criticised Romantic philosophy, which is based on feeling and intuition, and not on \"philosophical work\":\nKant called Romantic philosophy pseudo-philosophy, \"in which one is entitled not to work, but only to heed and enjoy the oracle in oneself in order to take complete possession of that wisdom toward which philosophy aims\".\n\nMysticism has a long history. In the Age of Enlightenment mysticism had fallen into disrepute. Kant called mysticism pseudophilosophy. In the 19th century, with the rise of Romanticism, interest in mysticism was renewed. Rationalists and Lutherans wrote histories of mysticism to reject its claims, but there was a widespread interest in spiritualism and related phenomena.\n\nInterest in Eckhart's works was revived in the early nineteenth century, especially by German Romantics and Idealist philosophers. Since the 1960s debate has been going on in Germany whether Eckhart should be called a \"mystic\". The philosopher Karl Albert had already argued that Eckhart had to be placed in the tradition of philosophical mysticism of Parmenides, Plato, Plotinus, Porphyry, Proclus and other neo-Platonistic thinkers. Heribert Fischer argued in the 1960s that Eckhart was a mediaeval theologian.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer wrote the following about Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel:\nHowever his opinion is not widely held of Hegelianism or German Idealism.\n\nSoccio notes that analytical inclined philosophers tend to dismiss Heidegger's philosophy as pseudophilosophy. According to Christensen, Heidegger himself called the philosophy of Husserl \"scheinphilosophy\".\n\nDietrich von Hildebrand used the term to critique the central place modern science is occupying in western society:\n\nJonathan Chait used the term in the title \"Ayn Rand's Pseudo-Philosophy\" of an article in \"New Republic\", in which he wrote, \"She was a true amateur who insisted on seeing herself as the greatest human being who ever lived because she was almost completely unfamiliar with the entire philosophical canon.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46694383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46694383", "title": "Putin. War", "text": "Putin. War\n\n\"Putin. War\" () is a report based on materials prepared by the Russian opposition politician Boris Nemtsov about the 2014–15 Russian military intervention in Ukraine. Published on the website \"Putin. Itogi\" on 12 May 2015, it covers the preparations for the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation and the involvement of Russian troops in the war in Donbass. The report includes testimonials of Russian soldiers taken prisoner in Ukraine and photos of Russian military personnel who died in the hostilities.\n\nBoris Nemtsov began working on the report at the end of January 2015. After Nemtsov's assassination, his close associate Ilya Yashin headed a team of opposition journalists and activists, who continued writing the report and prepared it for publication.\n\nThe epigraph of the report is a post by Boris Nemtsov in Facebook on 31 January 2015:\nThe task of the opposition today is education and truth.And the truth is that Putin is war and crisis.\n\nThe report consists of a preface, 11 chapters and a conclusion. It has 65 large-format pages with 46 color photographs and 8 charts.\n\nChapters:\nChapters cover the events from the beginning of Euromaidan when the Kremlin developed plans for the \"annexation of Crimea\" up to the start of 2015. The report includes information from relatives of Russian servicemen who died in Ukraine. The authors write that Putin's \"hybrid war\" involves doublethink, falsehoods and сowardliness, concluding:\n\nThe cowardly and despicable war unleashed by Putin will cost the country a lot. We will be paying for this adventure with the lives of our soldiers, economic crisis and political isolation.\n\nWe will pay with enmity from our long-time allies. No people are closer and more like kin to the Russians than the Ukrainians. These are our brothers - without any pathos -- and the war between Russians and Ukrainians in Donbass is impossible to characterize in any other way except as fratricide.\n\nThis war is the shame of our country. But the problem will not go away by itself. Putin must be stopped. And this can only be done by the Russian people themselves.\n\nLet us stop this war together.\nA special issue of the \"European Union Foreign Affairs Journal\" (EUFAJ) from Germany includes an English translation of the entire report as well as the original text in Russian (publication date 21.05.2015).\n\nAn American NGO, the Free Russia Foundation, also published a translation of the report into English. It was presented on 28 May 2015 at the Atlantic Council in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn Russia, 14 printing companies refused to publish the report. PayPal blocked an account raising funds for the report.\n\nThe head of the NGO \"Officers of Russia\" Anton Tsvetkov sent a statement to the Prosecutor General of the Russian Federation with a request to verify the report \"Putin. War\" for the presence of false information. Tsvetkov said that the facts in the report are based on distorted and anti-Russian sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "5286831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5286831", "title": "Richard Shavelson", "text": "Richard Shavelson\n\nRichard J. Shavelson is an educational psychologist who has published over 100 research articles and books in the fields of educational assessment, cognitive psychology, and science education. He is an emeritus professor in the Stanford Graduate School of Education, a former dean of the Stanford Graduate School of Education, and a past president of the American Educational Research Association. \n\nShavelson earned a Ph.D. in educational psychology from Stanford. Before he joined the Stanford faculty, Shavelson was a professor at UCLA and the University of California, Santa Barbara. He received the E. L. Thorndike Award from the American Psychological Association in 2010; the award recognized his research contributions in educational psychology.\n\nHis father was famed screenwriter Mel Shavelson.\n"}
{"id": "40541507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40541507", "title": "Rod Masterson", "text": "Rod Masterson\n\nRodney Gregory Masterson, Jr., known as Rod Masterson (February 14, 1945 – September 12, 2013), was an American film and television actor from Baton Rouge, Louisiana.\n\nA native of Alexandria in Central Louisiana, Masterson was one of four children born to the late Rodney Masterson, Sr., a physician originally from St. Louis, Missouri, and Elizabeth F. Masterson, a native of Jonesboro in Jackson Parish in North Louisiana. He graduated in 1963 from Holy Savior Menard Central High School, a Roman Catholic-institution in Alexandria and in 1967 from Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. He served in the United States Marine Corps, first as a drill sergeant and rose to the rank of lieutenant during the Vietnam War and was a member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars.\n\nIn addition to his acting, Masterson operated a Bikram Yoga clinic in Baton Rouge.\n\nMasterson made his screen debut in the NBC television film, \"The Life and Assassination of the Kingfish\", which aired on March 21, 1977. It is written and directed by Robert Lee Collins. Masterson was cast as Murphy Roden, one of several bodyguards of then U.S. Senator Huey Pierce Long, Jr. Roden fired at close range upon Carl Austin Weiss, the Baton Rouge physician and Long's presumed assassin, at the Louisiana State Capitol on the night of September 8, 1935. Ed Asner plays Long in the film; Diane Kagan, Rose McConnell Long; and Steven Ramay, the teenaged son, Russell B. Long.\nIn 1978, Masterson was cast as Oscar Weinberg in the episode \"Rosendahl and Gilda Stern Are Dead\" on James Garner's NBC detective television series, \"The Rockford Files\". That same year he had minor parts on CBS's \"Lou Grant\", starring Ed Asner in the title role, and \"\", a ten-episode crime drama on NBC starring David Cassidy. In 1979, Masterson played an unnamed police officer in the film \"Walk Proud\", starring Robby Benson as a confused Chicano gang member. The script of the film was written by Evan Hunter who had penned Glenn Ford's \"The Blackboard Jungle\" twenty-five years earlier.\nMasterson was cast as Patrolman Gallo in the 1984 film, \"Tightrope\", starring Clint Eastwood and Jennifer Beck, the story of attacks on prostitutes in New Orleans. In 1987, he played the character Couch in \"A Gathering of Old Men\", the story of a group of elderly African-Americans who rally to the defense of a fellow black charged with the murder of a white tenant farmer.\n\nIn 1988, he played the character Morris in the two-part pilot for the Carroll O'Connor NBC crime drama series, \"In the Heat of the Night\". On October 23, 1989, he appeared as Dr. Nystrom in the television movie, \"False Witness\", filmed in New Orleans, the story of a woman assistant district attorney who seeks to convict the killer of a controversial talk show hostess. In 1989, he was cast as a prison guard in the film \"The Outside Woman\", starring Sharon Gless as a millworker who becomes a pen pal of a Louisiana State Penitentiary inmate, played by Scott Glenn. That same year, Masterson was cast one of two unnamed newspaper reporters of the \"Alexandria Daily Town Talk\" in the film, \"Blaze\", a fictionalized account of Louisiana Governor Earl Kemp Long, played by Paul Newman and his involvement with stripper Blaze Starr, played by Lolita Davidovich.\n\nIn 1992, Masterson played the part of Crawford in the film, \"Delta Heat\", a police drama set in swampy terrain north of New Orleans, starring Anthony Edwards. In 1994, he had a minor role as a reporter in the film, \"Blue Sky\", with Tommy Lee Jones, Jessica Lange and Powers Boothe, a drama about 1950s weapons testing in the United States.\n\nMasterson's last role was as Ann's father in the 1998 film \"Dangerous Proposition\", filmed in Baton Rouge. In the story line a wife tries to determine if her husband is engaged in an affair by hiring another woman to entice him into adultery and to record the encounter.\n\nMasterson died in Baton Rouge in 2013 at the age of sixty-eight after having been stricken for some fifteen years with Parkinson's disease. He is survived by two brothers, Michael Masterson (born 1946) of Thibodaux in Lafourche Parish in south Louisiana and John Lloyd Masterson (born 1955) of Alexandria, and a sister, Mary Elizabeth Masterson (born 1949) of Hendersonville, Tennessee. He was predeceased by a brother, Paul F. Masterson.\n"}
{"id": "18409939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18409939", "title": "Rowman &amp; Littlefield Award in Innovative Teaching", "text": "Rowman &amp; Littlefield Award in Innovative Teaching\n\nThe Rowman & Littlefield Award in Innovative Teaching is the only national teaching award in political science given in the United States. It has been awarded annually by the American Political Science Association and was first awarded in 1996.\n\nThe award is sponsored by Rowman & Littlefield Publishers. It carries a US$500 cash stipend and is presented at the APSA's Annual Meeting to a winner selected from political science professors nominated by members of the award committee, chaired by L. Sandy Maisel, Professor of Government and Director of the Goldfarb Center for Public Affairs and Civic Engagement at Colby College in Waterville, Maine. \n\nAccording to the Association, the Award recognizes developers of \"effective new approaches to teaching\" among political scientists. Its intent is to honor a wide range of new directions, rather than one in particular. The annual winner is chosen from among a pool of nominees whose innovations had moved political science pedagogy forward.\n\nThe 2008 award was presented to Professor Renée Van Vechten of the University of Redlands Department of Government. Van Vechten received the award for work done on collaborative simulations; she created and facilitated three simultaneous interactive simulations, one where her students simulated Members of Congress in her Congress course and two in her Introduction to American Governments courses, with one class playing lobbyists and the other playing the constituents of the Congressmembers.\n\nProfessors James Meernik and Kimi King of the University of North Texas for their jointly taught study abroad class entitled \"International Law: Peace and Justice\", an intensive three-week program at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) in The Hague, Netherlands. Students receive access to top officials, including two of the ICTY presidents and 10 of the ICTY judges, as well as to attorneys and to tribunal testimony.\n\nThe 2005 winner was Professor Barbara Allen of Carleton College.\n\nJeremy Mayer, a professor of public policy and political science at the School of Public Policy of George Mason University, is a past winner of the Award.\n"}
{"id": "59004111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59004111", "title": "Rules-of-Renovation", "text": "Rules-of-Renovation\n\nRules-of-Renovation is an educational program that provides training in the real estate world, specifically home renovation. This program is designed by HGTV star, Hilary Farr from \"Love It or List It\". Farr has many years of experience in real estate and interior design, and has designed Rules of Renovation to help others be successful in the renovation of houses.\n\nHilary Farr is originally from Canada and was introduced to the real estate world at a young age, by helping her mother decorate her childhood home. Farr was able to move to Los Angeles, where she bought several properties and renovated them. In the beginning, she was working part time jobs, but after a few years her talent for renovation of homes started to gain recognition.\n\nIn 2008, Farr was approached by the W Network to co-host the show \"Love It or List It\", along with David Visentin. The show was broadcast on HGTV and the W Network. The show was originally based in Toronto, but in 2014, \"Love It or List It\" began its filming in North Carolina. Hilary Farr co-founded Rules of Renovation to give investors unique strategies on how to successfully renovate homes and then sell them. Investors looking to succeed in the field were invited to register for a free event to see how Rules of Renovation could help their business.\n\nWhile renovating houses and then selling them has became a way for people to make a living, it did not mean that the process is without risk. An investor without the correct tools and strategies has a high chance of making mistakes and failing in the field. Rules of Renovation exploited this market by giving investors the tools for being successful using its trained coaches and their tactics.\n\nThis educational program has several different steps offered to investors. First, it starts with a free renovation training event that discusses the basics and shows investors how the program would help them to succeed in their renovations. The second step is a 3-Day Workshop that provides attendees with strategies tailored to each individual. The last step is the ongoing mentoring and coaching. Even after the investors leave the event, they would have access to the coaches and one-on-one trainings for future questions.\n\n"}
{"id": "47792342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47792342", "title": "Showdown cooperative learning", "text": "Showdown cooperative learning\n\nShowdown is a cooperative learning technique that allows students to work in a group. It is usually used in middle school classrooms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28878", "title": "Software Engineering Body of Knowledge", "text": "Software Engineering Body of Knowledge\n\nThe Software Engineering Body of Knowledge (SWEBOK) is an international standard ISO/IEC TR 19759:2005 specifying a guide to the generally accepted Software Engineering Body of Knowledge.\n\nThe Guide to the Software Engineering Body of Knowledge (SWEBOK Guide) has been created through cooperation among several professional bodies and members of industry and is published by the IEEE Computer Society (IEEE). The standard can be accessed freely from the IEEE Computer Society. In late 2013, SWEBOK V3 was approved for publication and released. In 2016, the IEEE Computer Society kicked off the SWEBoK Evolution effort to develop future iterations of the body of knowledge.\n\nThe published version of SWEBOK V3 has the following 15 knowledge areas (KAs) within the field of software engineering:\n\n\nIt also recognized, but did not define, these related disciplines:\n\n\nThe 2004 edition of the SWEBOK guide defined ten knowledge areas (KAs) within the field of software engineering:\n\nThe SWEBOK also defines disciplines related to software engineering:\n\nA similar effort to define a body of knowledge for software engineering is the \"Computing Curriculum Software Engineering (CCSE),\" officially named Software Engineering 2004 (SE2004). The curriculum largely overlaps with the 2004 SWEBOK V2 because the SWEBOK has been used as one of its sources; however, it is more directed towards academia. Whereas the SWEBOK Guide defines the software engineering knowledge that practitioners should have after four years of practice, SE2004 defines the knowledge that an undergraduate software engineering student should possess upon graduation (including knowledge of mathematics, general engineering principles, and other related areas). SWEBOK V3 aims to address these intersections.\n\n"}
{"id": "44241739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44241739", "title": "St. Catherine's Master of Physician Assistant Studies (MPAS) Program", "text": "St. Catherine's Master of Physician Assistant Studies (MPAS) Program\n\nSt. Catherine's Master of Physician Assistant Studies (MPAS) Program is accredited by the ARC-PA The program is located on the Saint Paul, Minnesota campus of St. Catherine University . The program is one of the three accredited Master of Physician Assistant Studies programs in the state of Minnesota. The other two programs are located at Bethel University and Augsburg University. St .Catherine's MPAS program aims to educate and prepare its students to become successful Physician Assistants.\n\nTheir mission statement is:\n\"Influenced by Catholic intellectual tradition, the MPAS program is committed to preparing competent and compassionate Physician Assistant scholar practitioners who possess the knowledge, clinical acumen and critical thinking skills necessary to practice exemplary, ethical, patient-centered care, and who will lead and influence with grace emphasizing global responsibility, social justice and the preservation of human dignity.\"\n\nThe MPAS Program is full-time, containing 110 credits of in-classroom study and over 2,000 clinical hours over the span of 28 months. Each term follows a model that contains a specific sequence of courses. The first 14 months consist of classroom instruction/learning, and the following 14 months, clinical education. Students then finish the program with a senior seminar. During the 14 months of clinical clerkship, students complete nine clinical clerkships at various locations and medical specialties. Two of the nine clerkships are considered electives, and students are able to customize their education by choosing an area of interest.\n\nThere are particular prerequisite courses and steps for admission into the program, which are outlined and can be found on the St. Catherine MPAS website. Applicants should have a Bachelor's degree , a minimum GPA of 3.2, and experience in the healthcare field. This includes a minimum of 250 logged hours in a healthcare setting, although most successful applicants have about 500 hours. In addition, students must meet the technical standards provided by St.Catherine University. Admission to Physician Assistant programs is highly competitive.\n\nFall 2013 Admission Facts\n\nAfter completing the 28-month program, students must take the PANCE certification test. The PANCE is five hours long, containing 300 multiple choice questions. The pass rate, mean score, and national mean score of the St. Catherine's MPAS program will be posted when available. The inaugural Master of Physician Assistant Studies graduated from St. Catherine University in December 2014.\n\nHeather Bidinger is the program director. Bidinger was hired in 2009 to form the curriculum for the program. A faculty directory can be found on the St. Catherine MPAS website.\n"}
{"id": "24189487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24189487", "title": "Sue Sylvester", "text": "Sue Sylvester\n\nSue Sylvester is a fictional character of the Fox musical comedy-drama series, \"Glee\". The character is portrayed by actress Jane Lynch, and appears in \"Glee\" from its pilot episode, first broadcast on May 19, 2009, through the show's final episode, first broadcast on March 25, 2015. Sue was developed by \"Glee\" creators Ryan Murphy, Brad Falchuk, and Ian Brennan. For the show's first four seasons, Sue is the track-suit wearing coach of the William McKinley High School cheerleading squad, and a ruthless bully to both students and faculty members alike. Because her cheerleading squad competes with the glee club for the school's limited funding, she is often at odds with the club and more particularly its director Will Schuester (Matthew Morrison). Sue is the main antagonist throughout the series' run. In the show's fifth season, Sue is made the school's new principal, though she is ultimately fired late in the show's sixth and final season.\n\nDue to Lynch's initial limited availability, Sue was originally set to be a recurring character while Lynch was working on a Damon Wayans pilot for the American Broadcasting Company (ABC). When that pilot fell through, Sue became a starring role. The character has been acclaimed by critics. Mary McNamara for the \"Los Angeles Times\" has written that \"Lynch alone makes \"Glee\" worth watching\", while \"Entertainment Weekly\" Ken Tucker has called Sue \"the greatest Broadway-musical villain to ever co-star in a TV series\". In recognition of her portrayal of Sue, Lynch won an Emmy and a Golden Globe Award.\n\nThroughout the first season of \"Glee\", Sue makes numerous attempts at sabotaging the William McKinley High School glee club, New Directions. She enlists members of her cheerleading squad, the Cheerios, to bring the club down from the inside, and conspires to lure away its star member, Rachel Berry (Lea Michele). Sue is appointed co-director of the club by Principal Figgins (Iqbal Theba), but soon scales back her involvement when her attempts to turn the club members against director Will Schuester (Matthew Morrison) fail. Hoping to ruin the club's chances of winning at the show choir Sectionals competition, Sue gives New Directions' setlist to the directors of their rival glee clubs. Despite having to devise a new setlist at the last moment, New Directions win by unanimous decision and Sue is suspended by Figgins. She blackmails him into allowing her back, and is selected as a judge for the show choir Regionals competition. Sue is ridiculed by the other judges for her lack of fame and underdog status, allowing her to empathize with the glee club members. She votes for New Directions to win, and although they place last, she blackmails Figgins into allowing them another year to compete.\n\nSue's personal life is also explored over the course of the season. She has a commentary feature on the local television news, \"Sue's Corner\", which she uses to editorialize on issues such as littering and support for caning. She falls in love with news anchor Rod Remington (Bill A. Jones), but their burgeoning relationship comes to an abrupt end when she discovers he is sleeping with his co-anchor, Andrea Carmichael (Earlene Davis). In the episode \"Wheels\", Sue allows Becky Jackson (Lauren Potter), a sophomore with Down syndrome, to join the Cheerios. Will is suspicious of her motives, increasingly so when Sue donates money to the school to fund three new ramps for students with disabilities. It is revealed that Sue's older sister Jean (Robin Trocki) also has Down syndrome, and lives in a residential care facility. Sue becomes a minor celebrity when Olivia Newton-John invites her to remake the video to \"Physical\", after a viral video of Sue Jazzercising to the track achieves internet notoriety. She donates her share of the profits to her sister's care home.\n\nAt the onset of the second season, Sue has formed a truce with Will, and together they conspire against the school's new football coach, Shannon Beiste (Dot Jones). When Will comes to regret his actions and apologizes, Sue renews their enmity. She is appointed acting principal after having Figgins infected with the flu, but although the school board is so impressed with her performance they make her position permanent, she resigns when they refuse to uphold her expulsion of Dave Karofsky (Max Adler), a bully who had threatened to kill glee club member Kurt Hummel (Chris Colfer). After Sue learns that Rod and Andrea have become engaged, she announces her intention to marry herself. Her estranged mother Doris (Carol Burnett), a recently retired Nazi hunter, visits in an attempt to make amends for her absentee parenting, but is continuously critical of her daughter, to the point that Sue disinvites her during her wedding ceremony. Doris leaves, and Sue and Jean comfort each other.\n\nSue grows disillusioned with cheerleading, and in an effort to recapture her love for it, plans to fire cheerleader Brittany Pierce (Heather Morris) from a cannon during the team's next competitive routine. Brittany and her friends Santana Lopez (Naya Rivera) and Quinn Fabray (Dianna Agron) ultimately quit the squad, which loses at Regionals after having won the national title for six straight years. Sue is named Loser of the Year in a televised interview with Katie Couric, and has her budget slashed. Depressed, Sue stages a fake suicide, and as she hoped would happen, is convinced to temporarily join the glee club to lift her spirits, though she really wants to bring down the club from within. When her attempts to do so fail, Sue decides to become the coach of Aural Intensity, one of New Directions' Regionals competitors, and deliberately injures their director in order to get the job. Sue is furious when her club loses to New Directions, and punches the announcer in the face.\n\nMore intent than ever on destroying the glee club, Sue forms a \"League of Doom\", which consists of former glee club director Sandy Ryerson (Stephen Tobolowsky), the coach of rival glee club Vocal Adrenaline, Dustin Goolsby (Cheyenne Jackson), and Will's ex-wife Terri Schuester (Jessalyn Gilsig). Their first mission, to ruin a New Directions benefit, fails when Sandy is won over by a performance from Mercedes Jones (Amber Riley) and donates the full amount needed. Devastated by Jean's death from pneumonia, Sue turns to Terri, who has the glee club's plane tickets for Nationals changed from New York to Tripoli. She also removes Becky from the Cheerios, because she reminds her of her sister. Kurt and his stepbrother Finn Hudson (Cory Monteith) help Sue to clean out Jean's things, and she accepts their offer to have New Directions perform at the funeral, as she is afraid no one else will come. At the well-attended funeral service, an emotional Sue is unable to continue reading her eulogy after a few sentences, and Will reads the remainder for her. Touched by his support, Sue tells Will he is a good friend and she will no longer go after the glee club. She will instead be running for the United States House of Representatives on a platform of lowering health care costs, as her sister had faced significantly higher bills in her last few years. She then apologizes to Becky, reinstates her as a member of the Cheerios, and tells her she will be captain of the squad next year. As a final act of reconciliation, Sue asks for and receives a hug from Becky.\n\nAt the start of the third season, Sue's campaign for Congress is not going well. She decides to pledge to get rid of all arts programs in schools, music and theater especially, until all students are reading at or above grade level. Will's attempt to embarrass Sue and highlight the value of the arts by glitter bombing her backfires, and Sue's poll numbers rise. She also goes back on her promise to leave the glee club alone by having her new cheerleading co-captains, Becky and Santana, sabotage the club's recruitment drive. She rails against the school musical, and succeeds in having its funding rescinded. This angers Kurt's father, Burt Hummel (Mike O'Malley), who arranges for local businesses to sponsor the musical, and he enters the congressional race as a write-in candidate to defeat her. Sue runs a negative campaign, airing political ads containing false statements about Burt's personal life through her political ads. One of the other candidates in the race discovers that Santana is a lesbian, and uses this to attack Sue on the issue of \"family values\" for appointing her a cheerleading captain, and to imply that Sue herself is a lesbian. Santana is devastated, as she has not yet come out as a lesbian. Sue attempts to combat the implications by starting a relationship with one of her former bed partners, Ohio State football recruiter Cooter Menkins, who had recently been dating Coach Beiste. Being seen in public with Cooter does not help her in the voting, however; she comes in third, and Burt wins.\n\nIn the episode \"On My Way\", Sue reveals she is pregnant, shocking everyone. Her child is revealed by doctors to be a girl, but they mention that there were abnormalities on the scan. Sue mentions to Becky that she will have a child just like her, hinting that the baby may have Down's Syndrome. She shows unusual compassion, telling Will she will help him win nationals, letting Quinn rejoin the Cheerios, and is visibly upset at Karofsky's suicide attempt.\n\nIn the first episode of the fourth season, \"The New Rachel\", Sue, now a mother, introduces her newborn child named Robin to Kurt. Sue then calls Kitty, a new cheerleader into her office to take Robin from her. Sue has a storyline with Alex Newell's character, Wade \"Unique\" Adams, when she doesn't want him to audition for the role of Rizzo on the school's musical, \"Grease\". Also, when Finn insults Robin, calling her \"retarded\", they start a strong rivalry. Sue \"proposes\" to Finn that if New Directions lose sectionals, the glee club would end. They lose and Sue uses the choir room for the Cheerios practices when the weather is cold. When New Directions discover that they won because the other club cheated, Sue gives them back the choir room.\nSue is fired from the William McKinley High School in \"Shooting Star\", when Becky's gun is shot by accident, causing everyone to think that there's a school shooting. Sue says it was her gun and she misfired it while checking it, to protect Becky. Coach Roz replaces Sue as the cheerleader squad coach and takes her office. Sue later starts working as a personal trainer, and Blaine tries to get her back on McKinley's faculty, but she denies his offer by saying that getting fired was the best thing that could have ever happened to her, because now, as a trainer, people respect her, and also admits that she does not miss the Cheerios at all.\n\nIn the episode \"Love Love Love,\" Sue has come back to McKinley High after Becky confessed to the shooting. Upon her return, Sue gets Principal Figgins fired by faking incriminating details about him. He is demoted to janitor, while she takes his job as principal, where she constantly torments Figgins, and tells Will and Roz that she will keep the Cheerios and New Directions going if they win in their upcoming competitions.\n\nFollowing Finn's death in the episode \"The Quarterback,\" Sue orders the memorial in the school to be taken down, which angers Santana to the point where she confronts her and pushes her into a filing cabinet. She later reveals, after Santana apologizes to her, she is heartbroken Finn died believing she hated him, while she actually respected him and looked forward to having him as a colleague. In \"Puppet Master\" She experiences a hallucination in the choir room, later to be a gas leak. After fixing the pipe herself, she then becomes the school's permanent principal. In \"City Of Angels\", after New Directions comes in second in their Nationals competition, Sue fires Will and disbands the club, although she gets Will a job at Carmel High School as the new Coach for Vocal Adrenaline.\n\nIn \"A Wedding\", Sue tries to attend Brittany and Santana's wedding only to be flatly refused for her treatment of everyone. Showing a softer side, Sue visits Santana's grandmother who doesn't believe in two women marrying and uses \"some reverse Suecology\" to get the woman to see that no matter what she believes, family is most important. Sue is then allowed to attend the wedding and helps convince Kurt Hummel and Blaine Anderson to marry alongside Brittany and Santana, providing the rings for them when they don't have any. Sue later provides the two couples with their dream honeymoons, telling them that despite how she's treated them over the years, she's come to see them like her own kids. She is fired as principal in \"The Rise and Fall of Sue Sylvester\".\n\nBy 2020, Sue is the Republican Vice President of the United States to President Jeb Bush. She is planning on running for President in 2024. She rededicates the McKinley High auditorium to be named in honor of Finn Hudson while apologizing for her previous poor perception of the glee club. McKinley High has now become a model of excellence and other schools are copying its format. New Directions members from years past and present unite for one last massive group song, with Sue and Becky (now working as Sue's bodyguard) joining the entire cast for one final bow.\n\nSue is played by Jane Lynch. The character did not exist when the script for the \"Glee\" pilot was first submitted to Fox. In an interview with \"Entertainment Weekly\", Ryan Murphy said that Fox Entertainment president Kevin Reilly was responsible for her creation. On our first call, Kevin said, \"You need a villain, Murphy remembered. 'And I said, \"You know, you're right.\" I knew exactly who she is. I said, \"Her name is Sue Sylvester. And she is the cheerleading coach. And she may be on horse estrogen. The casting notice described Sue as \"the anal, tightly wound, and ruthlessly ambitious leader of the Harrison High cheer leading squad.\" At the time she was cast as Sue, Lynch was already committed to do a Damon Wayans pilot for ABC. The \"Glee\" role initially had her as a guest star, in the hope that she could become a regular in the future. When the ABC pilot fell through, Lynch became a series regular.\n\nSue is initially presented as the glee club's \"arch-nemesis\". Following the pilot episode, Lynch said she is \"pure evil and doesn't hide it\", explaining that she was created as a product of Murphy, Brennan and Falchuk's \"inner mean girl\". Lynch feels that Sue has the ability to be both \"horrible and really delightful at the same time\", assessing that she continually speaks her mind as she enjoys appalling people with the things she says. She encapsulates Sue's world view as being about \"power and winning\", stating that she will do anything to win. Sue's softer side manifests following the revelation that her sister has Down syndrome. She is depicted as kind and loving towards Jean, though Lynch stated that exploration of Sue's humanity would be limited. Sue is an atheist, but according to Murphy, does not want to be. He explained, \"She [is] saying to the world, 'Prove [me] wrong: If God is kindness and love, make me believe in God.'\" The second-season episode \"Grilled Cheesus\" focuses on the characters' differing approaches to religion. Sue lobbies against the performance of spiritual songs in school, engaging in a philosophical argument on the matter with school guidance counselor Emma Pillsbury (Jayma Mays), which Murphy describes as the scene he is \"most proud to have been involved with in [his] entire career.\" On the fifth-season episode \"Puppet Master\", the reason behind Sue's track suit outfit was revealed. It was because she felt that she never received the respect she deserved as a teacher and even the then Principal Figgins \"insulted\" her and said that she was a cheerleading coach so she needed to \"try some pants\" because she was wearing an office skirt and that she had long hair. She said that the moment she put the track suit on, \"the world bowed before her\" and that she \"had one made in every color\".\n\nSue performs in several of the series' musical numbers. In the first-season episode \"Mash-Up\", she is given a dancing lesson by Will, to Louis Prima's \"Sing, Sing, Sing (With a Swing)\". Her first vocal performance comes in the episode \"The Power of Madonna\", in which Sue enacts a frame-by-frame recreation of the music video for Madonna's \"Vogue\". The track features on the extended play record \"\", released to accompany the episode, and charted at number 106 on the UK singles chart. Sue duets with Olivia Newton-John on her song \"Physical\" in the episode \"Bad Reputation\". This track was included on the soundtrack album \"\", as well as the compilation albums \"Glee: The Music, The Complete Season One\", and \"Glee: The Music, The Complete Season One Collection\". Also released as a single available for download, it charted both on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and internationally, peaking at number 89 in the US, 88 in Australia, 61 in Canada and 56 in the United Kingdom. During the second season, Sue duets with her mother Doris on \"Ohio\" from the 1953 musical \"Wonderful Town\". The song was suggested to Murphy by Burnett, who felt that the lyrics were suited to her character's storyline.\n\nIn the fourth season, Sue performs \"Little Girls\" from Annie in the episode \"Lights Out\" and a mash-up of Nicki Minaj's \"Super Bass\" and \"I Still Believe by Mariah Carey as a duet with Darren Criss in the episode \"Feud\". Sue featured in three duets during the fifth season: \"Cheek to Cheek\" by Fred Astaire and \"NYC\" from Annie with Matthew Morrison in the episodes \"Puppet Master\" and \"Opening Night\" respectively and \"Who Are You Now?\" from Funny Girl with Lea Michele also in \"Opening Night\". Sue's final solo in the series is a cover of \"Bitch\" by Meredith Brooks in \"The Hurt Locker, Part One\". She performs another duet with Doris in \"The Rise and Fall of Sue Sylvester\": \"The Trolley Song\" from \"Meet Me in St. Louis. Also featured in that episode is a duet of Europe's \"The Final Countdown with Will. Sue's final performance is a duet with Will of ABBA's \"The Winner Takes It All.\n\nSue was lauded as \"the greatest Broadway-musical villain to ever co-star in a TV series\" by \"Entertainment Weekly\" Ken Tucker. In an early review, Robert Lloyd of the \"Los Angeles Times\" criticized her domination of scenes and flat characterization, commenting: \"She's funny from line to line, but there is little to her besides tin-pot contrariness.\" In June 2010, \"Entertainment Weekly\" named her one of the 100 Greatest Characters of the Last 20 Years. She is the 100th Most Memorable Female TV Character, according to AOL TV. She was included in AfterEllen.com's Top 50 Favorite Female TV Characters.\nLynch's performance in the role has attracted critical acclaim. Following the pilot episode, Mary McNamara of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote that she alone makes the series worth watching. IGN's Eric Goldman later assessed that a comic actress such as Lynch is necessary to make the character loveable, given that her key traits include smugness, ignorance and casual racism. The \"Los Angeles Times\" Shawna Malcom similarly praised Lynch's portrayal for keeping Sue from being \"an over-the-top disaster.\" Raymund Flandez of \"The Wall Street Journal\" suggested that the show would be less fun without Lynch's delivery.\n\n\"Variety\" Brian Lowry was critical of Lynch in early episodes, deeming \"Glee\" adult cast \"over-the-top buffoons\", and writing that she \"chews through her material so relentlessly as to be fitfully funny but usually just plain annoying.\" \"The New York Times\" Mike Hale wrote that she gives a \"one-note performance\" in \"Glee\", suggesting that she is miscast in the role, as \"her talent for playing repressed nut cases doesn’t extend to playing straightforward Nazis.\"\n\nLynch has won a number of awards for her portrayal of Sue. At the 14th Satellite Awards, she won the Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actress – Series, Miniseries, or Television Film. The following year, she won Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series at the 62nd Primetime Emmy Awards, for her performance in the episode \"The Power of Madonna\". She received the TCA Award for Individual Achievement in Comedy at the 26th TCA Awards, as well as the Actress Comedy Series accolade at the WIN Awards. Lynch was part of the \"Glee\" cast ensemble given the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series at the 16th Screen Actors Guild Awards. She was named Favorite Female TV Star (Comedy) at the Lesbian/Bi People's Choice Awards, run by the lesbian media website AfterEllen.com, and won the TV Performance of the Year: Musical or Comedy Award at the inaugural Dorian Awards, reflecting gay interest in the TV industry. The following year, Lynch tied in the same category with co-star Chris Colfer. 2011 also saw Lynch named Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress – Series, Miniseries, or Television Film at the 68th Golden Globe Awards, and Favorite TV Comedy Actress Award at the 37th People's Choice Awards.\n\nThe role has earned Lynch nominations for several further awards. She was nominated for Best Supporting Actress in a Series, Miniseries, or Television Film at the 67th Golden Globe Awards, and for Best Supporting Actress in a Series, Miniseries, or Television Film at the 15th Satellite Awards. Also in 2010, Sue was nominated Choice TV: Villain at the Teen Choice Awards, and Lynch was nominated for the Favorite TV Actress Award at the AfterEllen.com Visibility Awards. In 2011, she was nominated for the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Comedy Series at the 17th Screen Actors Guild Awards, and was also part of an ensemble nomination for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series.\n\nLynch was selected as the 2010 principal honoree of Madame Tussauds wax museum in Hollywood. A wax figure of Lynch as Sue was created, featuring the character's trademark tracksuit and bullhorn. At the August unveiling of the figure, Brennan commented that Sue would approve of being immortalized in such a manner.\n\n"}
{"id": "49636931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49636931", "title": "Symposia and workshops on opisthobranchs", "text": "Symposia and workshops on opisthobranchs\n\nNumerous biologists (malacologists) and citizen scientists, including many scuba divers, study the marine mollusks known as opisthobranchs, which are a large and diverse group of shelled and (mostly) shell-less, saltwater gastropods, the common name for which is sea slugs (including nudibranchs, sacoglossans, etc) and bubble snails. Symposia and workshops on opisthobranchs are meetings where those who specialize in studying these animals meet, in order to share ideas, information and knowledge.\n\nMeetings of an informal group of opisthobranch scientists have occurred in the past. Numerous examples are listed on the Sea Slug Forum website.\n\nA few are listed here:\n\n\n\n\"Planned workshop\"\n\n\nOther meet-ups listed on Sea Slug Forum:\n\n\nA concept which has been raised at these meetings is the idea of a calendar day on which to celebrate nudibranchs or sea slugs in general. In 2015, in Southern California, \"Sea Slug Day\" was October 29, \"the birthday of Terry Gosliner from the San Francisco's California Academy of Sciences\" (Gosliner is an expert on nudibranchs). Alternatively, \"International Nudibranch Day\" was suggested in Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "37822128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37822128", "title": "Tarbiat library", "text": "Tarbiat library\n\nTarbiat library () is the first state library in Iran, established in 1921 at Tabriz. The library was founded by Mahammad Ali Tarbiat, Iranian journalist and politician as \"Ma'aref public library and reading room\" () which was later renamed after its founder to Tarbiat library.\n"}
{"id": "7187756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7187756", "title": "The Goose-Step (book)", "text": "The Goose-Step (book)\n\nThe Goose-step: A Study of American Education is a book, published in 1923, by the American novelist and muckraking journalist Upton Sinclair. It is an investigation into the consequences of plutocratic capitalist control of American colleges and universities. Sinclair writes, “Our educational system is not a public service, but an instrument of special privilege; its purpose is not to further the welfare of mankind, but merely to keep America capitalist.\" (p. 18)\n\nThe book is one of the “Dead Hand” series: six books Sinclair wrote on American institutions. The series also includes \"The Profits of Religion\", \"The Brass Check\" (journalism), \"The Goslings\" (elementary and high school education), \"Mammonart\" (great literature, art and music) and \"Money Writes!\" (literature). The term “Dead Hand” criticizes Adam Smith’s concept that allowing an \"invisible hand\" of capitalist greed to shape economic relations provides the best result for society as a whole.\n\nPublished in 1923, \"The Goose-step\" was written during the post–World War I Red Scare. It was a time of great political awareness and activism on both left and right in the United States. On the left, there was widespread interest in Socialism and Communism, especially in the results of the 1917 Russian Revolution. Populist ideas were still alive, and Anarchism was in the news, with the Italian anarchists Sacco and Vanzetti arraigned in 1920 for a robbery and murder. On the right, the anti-German jingoism and florid patriotism of the war years had stirred up passions against pacifism and ‘foreign’ ideas such as Socialism and Communism. The Palmer raids against suspected radicals occurred in 1919, and superpatriotic organizations like the business-sponsored, anti-union Better America Foundation worked to shape public opinion.\n\nCritiques of higher education had recently appeared, such as Thorstein Veblen’s 1918 book \"The Higher Learning in America.\"\n\nSinclair spent a year traveling the country for the book and interviewed over a thousand persons. (Like American filmmaker Michael Moore, Sinclair makes the rejection he received part of the story.) Sinclair also used primary sources like letters, and secondary sources like student newspapers.\n\nSinclair had studied at Columbia University in New York City, and the book’s longest section attacks Columbia and its president, Nicholas Murray Butler.\n\nSinclair originally intended to also critique elementary and high schools, but because of length he saved that material for another book, published in 1924 as \"The Goslings.\"\n\nContemporary readers would have recognized the title, \"The Goose-step,\" as referring to the authoritarian Prussian culture of Germany, which the United States had recently defeated in World War I. With the title, Sinclair implies that students in American universities and colleges were being trained to think in unison like German students. This is not surprising, he implies, as the presidents of major universities--Princeton, Columbia, Harvard, Pennsylvania, Yale, University of California-Berkeley and Stanford (p. 115), and the chancellor of New York University (p. 314)--had studied in Germany. “Everyone (sic) of them learned the Goose-step under the Kaiser!” (p. 115)\n\nTo explain how higher education is controlled by financial interests, Sinclair quotes from a report of the 1913 Pujo Committee of the United States House of Representatives.\n\nThe interlocking directorate was equally well represented on the boards of trustees of American universities. Sinclair cites a survey by Evans Clark, \"a preceptor in Princeton University--until he made this survey.\" Of the boards of the 29 largest universities, \"the plutocratic class…composed 56 per cent of the membership of the privately controlled boards, and 68 per cent of the publicly controlled boards.” In contrast, the board members included 4-6 per cent farmers, no representatives of labor, and no inhouse professors to represent the faculty. (Clark's findings were confirmed by a 1917 study by Scott Nearing.)\n\nFor each school (see below), Sinclair describes how the interlocking directorate exercises its influence on the school's Board of Trustees. Bankers and powerful local businessmen dominate the boards, ensuring that school policies support their class interest.\n\nThis occurs in various ways. The school president serves the board rather than the educational interest of the students. Unqualified but politically conservative men are hired as administrators or professors. University funds are invested at artificially low interest rates at favored banks. Schools purchase land from people in their administration. The administration represses radical students and prohibits speeches by Socialists like Sinclair. Students at state universities, which are funded by the public, are nevertheless taught to serve the interests of the rich.\n\nA major theme is professors' inability to speak freely in or out of class without fearing for their jobs (academic freedom). Rather, the Board of Trustees, acting through the school's president, suppressed any criticism of the status quo. Many faculty members were dismissed, driven out or denied promotion because of their political activities or views. Sinclair says that academic freedom was suppressed at church-sponsored and tax-supported (state) schools, as well as at private ones. Only one or two faculty members allowed Sinclair to use their names.\n\nOther chapters deal with the importance of keeping the support of wealthy and politically conservative alumni/donors, and the influence of plutocrat-founded policy organizations like Andrew Carnegie's Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching and John D. Rockefeller’s General Education Board. A chapter, \"The Academic Pogrom,\" concerns some institutions’ efforts to reduce the number of Jewish students and applicants. Final chapters support the alternative of workers’ education and labor colleges.\n\nAmong his prescriptions for change, Sinclair wanted more professors to unionize by joining the American Association of University Professors (only 2-3 per cent were unionized). He also wanted college students to experience real life: they should visit jails and work in factories, or alternatively have prisoners and labor leaders speak at their schools.\n\nCritics have usually praised \"The Goose-step\" for bringing an enormous mass of information together in an engaging and readable book. It is “muckraking at its best”, an “honest effort to find out the truth” and \"indispensable to any student of present American life.\" While they rarely if ever find errors of fact, they criticize Sinclair's interpretation as oversimplified: plutocrats are not responsible for all the problems with higher education.\n\nRegarding suppression of academic freedom, one critic argues that “many [cases], perhaps a majority, were the result of war hysteria and should not be regarded as typical.”\n\nSinclair's epithet for the school follows; it refers to the major source of plutocratic influence on the Board of Directors or school administration.\n\n\nBriefer references to:\nMIT, Cincinnati, Washington University, Temple, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Iowa, Ohio State, Beloit, Marietta College, Rockford College, Williams College, Delaware, Bryn Mawr.\nReligious colleges: Wooster, Muskingum, Allegheny, Washburn, American University, Trinity, Baylor, SMU, Bethany, Emory and Henry\nInstitutions Sinclair praises: Union Theological Seminary, Berkeley Divinity School (Middletown CT), Oberlin, Iliff School of Theology (Denver), Y.M.C.A. College (Springfield, MA), Harvard Law, Amherst, Swarthmore, University of North Carolina, New School for Social Research\n\nAll page numbers refer to the second edition (1923).\n\nThe cited references can be found through JSTOR, an online database of academic journals.\n\nAlso Eells, Walter Crosby, \"Criticisms of Higher Education\", \"The Journal of Higher Education,\" 5 (4) (Apr. 1934), pp. 187–9.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14803265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14803265", "title": "The National Strategies", "text": "The National Strategies\n\nThe National Strategies were professional programmes aiming for improvements in the quality of learning and teaching in schools in England, delivered on behalf of the Department for Children, Schools and Families. The National Strategies were first introduced in 1998 and were a key national delivery vehicle for many new and existing government learning priorities.\n\nThe programmes provided a mix of resources and services that supported improvements in the quality of learning and teaching in schools, colleges and early years settings. A key aim of The National Strategies was to help these educational settings raise children's standards of attainment and improve their life chances.\n\nThe National Strategies mission was “To raise standards of achievement and rates of progression for children and young people in all phases and settings through personalised learning with a particular focus on the core subjects and early years”. The National Strategies web area, which was closed in 2011, was recognised by the Web Marketing Association Awards as ‘outstanding’ in the categories ‘Best Government Website’ and ‘Best Education Website’.\n\n"}
{"id": "15149971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15149971", "title": "Twenty First Century Science", "text": "Twenty First Century Science\n\nTwenty First Century Science is a syllabus of GCSE Sciences, which was trialed before released into schools. Teaching of this syllabus began in September 2006. It is run by the OCR examination board and covers Biology, Chemistry and Physics.\n\n"}
{"id": "23389971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23389971", "title": "Xavier University MBA Program", "text": "Xavier University MBA Program\n\nXavier University's MBA program is the master's degree in business administration program offered by Xavier University in Cincinnati. The Xavier MBA has received regional praise as the \"best reputation in the Midwest for an MBA\", according to \"The Princeton Review.\" The university's part-time MBA program is nationally ranked 14th in the 2010 \"U.S. News & World Report.\"\n\nXavier University's MBA degree is offered in several formats to meet the needs of its students. An evening program is available and offers working professional students weekday evening courses and flexibility on the time frame to complete the degree requirements. Also aimed for working professional students, a weekend option allows students who travel during the week to complete the degree requirements during weekends. An Executive MBA is designed for experienced business leaders who have been tapped by their respective organizations for executive roles. Xavier University also conducts MBA courses in off-campus locations in West Chester, Ohio and Deerfield Township, Ohio. \n\nXavier sponsors the Momentum Program for students who completed their undergraduate degree and wish to continue their education through a full-time MBA program. \n\n"}
{"id": "4113726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4113726", "title": "Yushima Seidō", "text": "Yushima Seidō\n\n, located in the Yushima neighbourhood of Bunkyō, Tokyo, Japan, was established as a Confucian temple in the Genroku era of the Edo period (end of the 17th century).\n\nThe Yushima Seidō has its origins in a private Confucian temple, the Sensei-den (先聖殿), constructed in 1630 by the neo-Confucian scholar Hayashi Razan (1583–1657) in his grounds at Shinobi-ga-oka (now in Ueno Park). The fifth Tokugawa \"shōgun\", Tsunayoshi, moved the building to its present site in 1690, where it became the Taiseiden (大成殿) of Yushima Seidō. The Hayashi school of Confucianism moved at the same time.\n\nUnder the Kansei Edict, which made neo-Confucianism the official philosophy of Japan, the Hayashi school was transformed into a state-run school under the control of the shogunate in 1797. The school was known as the Shōhei-zaka Gakumonjo (昌平坂学問所) or Shōheikō (昌平黌), after Confucius's birthplace, Changping (昌平, pronounced \"Shōhei\" in Japanese). During the time of the Tokugawa shogunate, the school attracted many men of talent, but it was closed in 1871 after the Meiji Restoration.\n\nThe title \"Daigaku-no-kami\" identifies the head of the chief educational institution of the state. It was conferred by the shogun in 1691 when the Neo-Confucian academy moved to land provided by the shogunate at Yushima. In the years which followed, this academic title became hereditary for the ten descendants who followed in succession.\n\nIn the early years of the Edo period, the \"seidō\" or Confucian \"Hall of Sages\" was located in Shinobugaoka; but in 1691, it was moved to a new location at the top of a hill in the Yushima section of Edo. The hereditary heads of the Edo \"daigaku\" are identified below.\n\n\n\nSince the Meiji restoration, Yushima Seidō has temporarily shared its premises with a number of different institutions, including the Ministry of Education, the Tokyo National Museum, and the forerunners of today’s Tsukuba University and Ochanomizu University (which is now in a different location but retains \"Ochanomizu\" in its name).\n\nThe site of the school is now occupied by the Tokyo Medical and Dental University.\n\nThe colour scheme of the original Taiseiden is believed to have been one of vermilion paint with verdigris. After being burnt down on a number of occasions, the Taiseiden was rebuilt in 1799 in the style of the Confucian temple in Mito, which used black paint. This building survived through the Meiji period and was designated a national historical site in 1922, but was burnt down in the Great Kantō earthquake of the following year. The current Taiseiden is in reinforced concrete and was designed by Itō Chūta.\n\nInside the compound is the world's largest statue of Confucius, donated in 1975 by the Lions Club of Taipei, Taiwan. There are also statues of the Four Sages, Yan Hui, Zengzi, Kong Ji, and Mencius.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Taiseiden was used as the location for scenes in NTV's \"Monkey\" television series.\n\nAlong with the nearby Yushima Tenman-gū, the Yushima Seidō is a mecca for students praying for success in their examinations.\n\nOchanomizu Station and Shin-Ochanomizu Station are nearby.\n\n\n\n"}
