{"id": "31615011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31615011", "title": "100 Landscapes of Japan (Shōwa era)", "text": "100 Landscapes of Japan (Shōwa era)\n\nThe is a list of famous scenic sites in Japan. The 100 Landscapes or Views were selected alongside further sets of 8 Views and 25 Winning Sites in 1927, a year after Hirohito became Emperor. The selection was intended to \"reflect the new taste of the new era\". The nomination and voting process was sponsored by the Tokyo Nichi Nichi Shimbun and Osaka Mainichi Shimbun.\n\nThe landscapes or views are divided into eight classes (1) Coastlines (2) Lakes (3) Mountains (4) Rivers (5) Gorges (6) Waterfalls (7) Onsen (8) Plains. Many of these landscapes are now included among Japan's National Parks.\n\n\n Ministry of the Environment - 100 View of Japan\n"}
{"id": "8543836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8543836", "title": "Aesthetic distance", "text": "Aesthetic distance\n\nAesthetic distance refers to the gap between a viewer's conscious reality and the fictional reality presented in a work of art. When a reader becomes fully engrossed in the illusory narrative world of a book, the author has achieved a close aesthetic distance. If the author then jars the reader from the reality of the story, essentially reminding the reader they are reading a book, the author is said to have \"violated the aesthetic distance.\" \n\nThe concept originates from Immanuel Kant's Critique of Judgement, where he establishes the notion of \"disinterested delight\" which does not depend on the subject's having a desire for the object itself, he writes, \"delight in beautiful art does not, in the pure judgement of taste, involve an immediate interest. [...] it is not the object that is of immediate interest, but rather the inherent character of the beauty qualifying it for such a partnership-a character, therefore, that belongs to the very essence of beauty.\" \n\nThe term aesthetic distance itself derives from an article by Edward Bullough published in 1912. In that article, he begins with the image of a passenger on a ship observing fog at sea. If the passenger thinks of the fog in terms of danger to the ship, the experience is not aesthetic, but to regard the beautiful scene in detached wonder is to take legitimate aesthetic attitude. One must feel, but not too much. Bullough writes, \"Distance … is obtained by separating the object and its appeal from one's own self, by putting it out of gear with practical needs and ends. Thereby the 'contemplation' of the object becomes alone possible.\"\n\nAuthors of film, fiction, drama, and poetry evoke different levels of aesthetic distance. For instance, William Faulkner tends to invoke a close aesthetic distance by using first-person narrative and stream of consciousness, while Ernest Hemingway tends to invoke a greater aesthetic distance from the reader through use of third person narrative.\n\nAnything that pulls a viewer out of the reality of a work of fiction is said to be a violation of aesthetic distance. An easy example in theater or film is \"breaking the fourth wall,\" when characters suspend the progress of the story to speak directly to the audience. When the aesthetic distance is deliberately violated in theater, it is known as the distancing effect, or \"Verfremdungseffekt\", a concept coined by playwright Bertolt Brecht.\n\nMany examples of violating the aesthetic distance may also be found in meta-fiction. William Goldman, in \"The Princess Bride\", repeatedly interrupts his own fairy tale to speak directly to the reader. In the musical, \"Stop the World I Want to Get Off\", the protagonist, \"Littlechap\", periodically stops the progress of the play to address the audience directly.\n\nIn film, the aesthetic distance is often violated unintentionally. Examples might include a director's cameo, poor special effects, or perhaps blatant product placement - any can be enough to pull a viewer out of the reality of the film. David Mamet in \"On Directing Film\" asserts that any direct depiction of graphic sex or violence in film is an inherent violation of aesthetic distance, as audience members will instinctively make judgments as to whether or not what they just saw was real, and thus be pulled out of the story-telling.\n\n"}
{"id": "37761633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37761633", "title": "Angel of the Resurrection (Tiffany Studios stained glass window)", "text": "Angel of the Resurrection (Tiffany Studios stained glass window)\n\nAngel of the Resurrection is a massive stained glass window by the American Art Nouveau glass manufacturer Tiffany Studios, now in the collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art. It was commissioned by former-First Lady Mary Lord Harrison as a memorial to her husband, President Benjamin Harrison. Completed in 1904, the window depicts the Archangel Michael calling for the dead to rise at the Second Coming.\n\nAlthough his trumpet often leads to the assumption that the angel here is Gabriel, he is in fact Michael, using the trumpet to signal the dead to rise again. Dressed in chainmail like a crusading knight from the books of Sir Walter Scott, Michael cuts a dashing figure in keeping with the era's romanticism. Although Tiffany was absorbed in numerous other projects at the time, he gave his team of gifted designers input before bestowing his approval upon the final composition. Several of his brilliant innovations in glass manufacturing are visible in this piece, including the swirling opalescence of his trademark mottled glass, drapery glass in Michael's robes, and the ruffling on the wings to resemble feathers. The assembly was equally innovative, with lead not merely holding the glass in place but defining the image and creating linear effects. Furthermore, his layering of glass creates dazzling depths and color effects. \"Awake Thou That Sleepest. Arise from the Dead and Christ Shall Give Thee Light\" from Ephesians 5:14 is inscribed on the window.\n\n\"Angel of the Resurrection\" was commissioned in 1901 for the First Meridian Heights Presbyterian Church in Indianapolis, by Mary Lord Harrison in memory of her husband, President Benjamin Harrison. The church had particular importance for Harrison, who had been a church elder for over forty years. The total cost, including installation and external glass protection, was $1500.\n\nThe new Presbyterian church being constructed at the time of Harrison's death housed the window from its dedication in 1905 until it was donated to the IMA in 1972. The original watercolor sketch by Frederick Wilson, a Tiffany designer, resides at the Benjamin Harrison Home. \"Angel of the Resurrection\" has the acquisition number 72.75. It is currently on view in the Hunt Rotunda Gallery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14554018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14554018", "title": "Anti-nuclear movement in Germany", "text": "Anti-nuclear movement in Germany\n\nThe anti-nuclear movement in Germany has a long history dating back to the early 1970s when large demonstrations prevented the construction of a nuclear plant at Wyhl. The Wyhl protests were an example of a local community challenging the nuclear industry through a strategy of direct action and civil disobedience. Police were accused of using unnecessarily violent means. Anti-nuclear success at Wyhl inspired nuclear opposition throughout Germany, in other parts of Europe, and in North America. A few years later protests raised against the NATO Double-Track Decision in Germany and were followed by the foundation of the Green party.\n\nIn 1986, large parts of Germany were covered with radioactive contamination from the Chernobyl disaster and Germans went to great lengths to deal with the contamination. Germany's anti-nuclear stance was strengthened. From the mid-1990s onwards, anti-nuclear protests were primarily directed against transports of radioactive waste in \"CASTOR\" containers.\n\nIn September 2010, German government policy shifted back toward nuclear energy, and this generated some new anti-nuclear sentiment in Berlin and beyond. On 18 September 2010, tens of thousands of Germans surrounded Chancellor Angela Merkel's office. In October 2010, tens of thousands of people protested in Munich. In November 2010, there were violent protests against a train carrying reprocessed nuclear waste.\n\nWithin days of the March 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, large anti-nuclear protests occurred in Germany. Chancellor Angela Merkel promptly \"imposed a three-month moratorium on previously announced extensions for Germany's existing nuclear power plants, while shutting seven of the 17 reactors that had been operating since 1981\". Protests continued and, on 29 May 2011, Merkel's government announced that it would close all of its nuclear power plants by 2022. Galvanised by the Fukushima nuclear disaster, first anniversary anti-nuclear demonstrations were held in Germany in March 2012. Organisers say more than 50,000 people in six regions took part.\n\nGerman publications of the 1950s and 1960s contained criticism of some features of nuclear power including its safety. Nuclear waste disposal was widely recognized as a major problem, with concern publicly expressed as early as 1954. In 1964, one author went so far as to state \"that the dangers and costs of the necessary final disposal of nuclear waste could possibly make it necessary to forego the development of nuclear energy\".\n\nIn the early 1960s there was a proposal to build a nuclear power station in West Berlin, but the project was dropped in 1962. Another attempt to site a reactor in a major city was made in 1967, when BASF planned to build a nuclear power station on its ground at Ludwigshafen, to supply process steam. Eventually the project was withdrawn by BASF.\n\nThe tiny hamlet of Wyhl, located just outside the Kaiserstuhl wine-growing area in the southwestern corner of Germany, was first mentioned in 1971 as a possible site for a nuclear power station. In the years that followed, local opposition steadily mounted, but this had little impact on politicians and planners. Official permission for the plant was granted and earthworks began on 17 February 1975. On 18 February, local people spontaneously occupied the site and police removed them forcibly two days later. Television coverage of police dragging away farmers and their wives through the mud helped to turn nuclear power into a major national issue. The rough treatment was widely condemned and made the wine-growers, clergy, and others all the more determined. Some local police refused to take part in the action.\n\nSubsequent support came from the nearby university town of Freiburg. On 23 February about 30,000 people re-occupied the Wyhl site and plans to remove them were abandoned by the state government in view of the large number involved and potential for more adverse publicity. On 21 March 1975, an administrative court withdrew the construction licence for the plant. The plant was never built and the land eventually became a nature reserve.\n\nThe Wyhl occupation generated extensive national debate. This initially centred on the state government's handling of the affair and associated police behaviour, but interest in nuclear issues was also stimulated. The Wyhl experience encouraged the formation of citizen action groups near other planned nuclear sites. Many other anti-nuclear groups formed elsewhere, in support of these local struggles, and some existing citizens' action groups widened their aims to include the nuclear issue. This is how the German anti-nuclear movement evolved. Anti-nuclear success at Wyhl also inspired nuclear opposition in the rest of Europe and North America.\n\nIn 1976 and 1977, mass demonstrations took place at Kalkar, the site of Germany's first fast breeder reactor, and at Brokdorf, north of Hamburg. Some of these demonstrations, which always started peacefully, were organized by the World Union for Protection of Life. The circumstances at Brokdorf were similar to those at Wyhl, in that the behaviour of the police was again crucial:\n\nThe authorities had rushed through the licensing process, and police occupied the site hours before the first construction license was granted, in order to prevent a repetition of Wyhl. Demonstrators trying to enter the site a few days later got harsh treatment, and all this helped consolidate the population in opposition.\nIn February 1977 the Minister-President of Lower Saxony, Ernst Albrecht of the Christian Democratic Union, announced that the salt mines in Gorleben would be utilised to store radioactive waste. New protests by the local population and opponents of nuclear power broke out and approximately 20,000 people attended the first large demonstration in Gorleben on 12 March 1977. Protests about Gorleben continued for several years and, in 1979, the prime minister declared that plans for a nuclear waste plant in Gorleben were “impossible to enforce for political reasons\".\n\nIn 1980 an Enquete Commission of the Bundestag proposed \"a paradigmatic\nchange in energy policy away from nuclear power\". This contributed to a broad shift in German public opinion, the formation of the Green Party, and its election to the German Bundestag in 1983.\n\nIn the early 1980s plans to build a nuclear fuel reprocessing plant in the Bavarian town of Wackersdorf lead to major protests. In 1986, West German police were confronted by demonstrators armed with slingshots, crowbars and Molotov cocktails at the site of a nuclear reprocessing plant in Wackersdorf. The plans for the plant were abandoned in 1988. It still isn't clear whether protests or plant economics led to the decision.\n\nIn 1981, Germany's largest anti-nuclear demonstration took place to protest against the construction of the Brokdorf Nuclear Power Plant on the North Sea coast west of Hamburg. Some 100,000 people came face to face with 10,000 police officers. Twenty-one policemen were injured by demonstrators armed with gasoline bombs, sticks, stones and high-powered slingshots. The plant began operations in October 1986 and is scheduled to close in 2018.\n\nThe Chernobyl disaster in 1986 was a pivotal event for Germany's anti-nuclear movement. After the radioactive fallout cloud covered large parts of the country, Germans went to great lengths to deal with the contamination. Contaminated crops were destroyed, firemen dressed in protective gear cleaned cars as they crossed the border from other countries, and sand in playground sandboxes was replaced.\n\nFollowing Chernobyl, the Green Party strived \"for the immediate shut-down of all nuclear facilities\". The SPD pushed for a nuclear phase-out within ten years. Länder governments, municipalities, parties and trade unions explored the question of \"whether the use of nuclear power technology was reasonable and sensible for the future\".\n\nIn May 1986 clashes between anti-nuclear protesters and West German police became common. More than 400 people were injured in mid-May at the site of a nuclear-waste reprocessing plant being built near Wackersdorf. Police \"used water cannons and dropped tear-gas grenades from helicopters to subdue protesters armed with slingshots, crowbars and Molotov cocktails\".\n\nSeveral advanced reactor designs in Germany were unsuccessful. Two fast breeder reactors were built, but both were closed in 1991 without the\nlarger ever having achieved criticality. The High Temperature Reactor THTR-300 at Hamm-Uentrop, under construction since 1970, was started in 1983, but was shut down in September 1989.\n\nThe anti-nuclear protests were also a driving force of the green movement in Germany, from which the party The Greens evolved. When they first came to power in the Schröder administration of 1998 they achieved their major political goal for which they had fought for 20 years: abandoning nuclear energy in Germany.\n\nFrom the mid-1990s onwards, anti-nuclear protests were primarily directed against transports of radioactive waste called \"castor\" containers. In 1996 there were sit-ins against the second castor consignment bringing nuclear waste from La Hague in France to Gorleben. In 1997 the third castor transport reached Gorleben despite the efforts of several thousand protesters.\n\nIn 2002, the \"Act on the structured phase-out of the utilization of nuclear energy for the commercial generation of electricity\" took effect, following a drawn-out political debate and lengthy negotiations with nuclear power plant operators. The act legislated for the shut-down of all German nuclear plants by 2021. The Stade Nuclear Power Plant was the first one to go offline in November 2003, followed by the Obrigheim Nuclear Power Plant in 2005. Block-A of the Biblis Nuclear Power Plant is still provisionally scheduled to be shut down in 2008. Block-B is going back online after a year-long shutdown on 13 or 14 December 2007 and is scheduled to keep operating until 2009 or 2012.\n\nIn 2007, amid concerns that Russian energy supplies to western Europe may not be reliable, conservative politicians, including Chancellor Angela Merkel and Economics Minister Michael Glos, continued to question the decision to phase out nuclear power in Germany. WISE along with other anti-nuclear movement groups contend that the climate problem can only be solved by the use of renewable forms of energy along with efficient and economical energy technologies.\n\nIn summer 2008, a cover of the German magazine Der Spiegel read \"Atomkraft - Das unheimliche Comeback \"(Nuclear Power - Its eerie comeback). As a consequence the Germans anti-nuclear organisation \"\" decided to coordinate the various anti-nuclear movements on their website leading to a more powerful protest. Anti-nuclear Monday evening walks become popular in various German cities.\n\nIn November 2008, a shipment of radioactive waste from German nuclear plants arrived at a storage site near Gorleben after being delayed by large protests from nuclear activists. More than 15,000 people took part in the protests which involved blocking trucks with sit-down demonstrations and blocking the route with tractors. The demonstrations were partly a response to conservative calls for a rethink of the planned phaseout of nuclear power stations.\n\nIn April 2009, activists blocked the entrance to controversial Neckarwestheim Nuclear Power Plant with an 8-metre wall. Their protest coincided with the annual meeting of the company that runs the plant, EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg.\n\nAlso in April 2009 about 1,000 people demonstrated against nuclear power generation in the north-western city of Münster. Located southwest of Hamburg, Münster is surrounded by a nuclear waste dump at Ahaus, Germany's only uranium enrichment plant at Gronau and another such plant at Almelo in neighbouring Holland.\n\nOn 24 April 2010, about 120,000 people built a human chain (\"KETTENreAKTION!\") between the nuclear plants Krümmel and Brunsbüttel. This way they were demonstrating against the plans of the German government to extend the period of producing nuclear power. Demonstrations were also held in other German cities \"where public opinion is mainly opposed to nuclear energy\".\n\nIn September 2010, German government policy shifted back toward nuclear energy, and this generated some new anti-nuclear sentiment in Berlin and beyond. On 18 September 2010, tens of thousands of Germans surrounded Chancellor Angela Merkel’s office in an anti-nuclear demonstration that organisers said was the biggest of its kind since the Chernobyl disaster in 1986. In October 2010, tens of thousands of people protested in Munich against the nuclear power policy of Chancellor Angela Merkel's coalition government. Protesters called for a move away from nuclear power towards renewable energy. The action was the biggest anti-nuclear event in Bavaria for more than two decades.\n\nIn November 2010, police wielding batons clashed with protesters who disrupted the passage of a train carrying reprocessed nuclear waste from France to Germany. The train carrying the nuclear waste was heading for Dannenberg where the 123 tonnes of waste was loaded onto trucks and taken to the nearby storage facility of Gorleben, in central Germany. Tens of thousands of protesters gathered in Dannenberg to signal their opposition to the cargo. Organisers said 50,000 people had turned out but police said the figure was closer to 20,000. Around 16,000 police were mobilised to deal with the protests.\n\nIn light of the Fukushima nuclear disaster, public opposition intensified. 60,000 Germans participated in a protest on 12 March 2011, forming a 45-km human chain from Stuttgart to the Neckarwestheim power plant. 110,000 people protested in 450 other German towns on 14 March, with opinion polls indicating 80% of Germans opposed the government's extension of nuclear power. On 15 March 2011, Angela Merkel said that seven nuclear power plants which went online before 1980 would be temporarily closed and the time would be used to study speedier renewable energy commercialization. Merkel has effectively reversed a previous decision to keep older nuclear plants operating beyond their previously designated life span.\n\nFormer proponents of nuclear energy such as Angela Merkel, Guido Westerwelle, Stefan Mappus have changed their positions, yet 71% of the population believe that to be a tactical maneuvre related to upcoming state elections. In the largest anti-nuclear demonstration ever held in Germany, some 250,000 people protested on 26 March under the slogan \"Fukushima reminds - shut off all nuclear plants.\" The 27 March state elections in Baden-Württemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate saw the Greens gain their voting share significantly as a result of their long-time anti-nuclear politics, ending up with the second largest share of the vote in the Baden-Württemberg election.\n\nIn March 2011, more than 200,000 people took part in anti-nuclear protests in four large German cities, on the eve of state elections. Organisers called it the biggest anti-nuclear demonstration the country has seen, with police estimating that 100,000 people turned out in Berlin alone. Hamburg, Munich and Cologne also saw big demonstrations. The \"New York Times\" reported that \"most Germans have a deep-seated aversion to nuclear power, and the damage at the Fukushima Daiichi plant in Japan has galvanized opposition\". Thousands of Germans demanding an end to the use of nuclear power took part in nationwide demonstrations on 2 April 2011. About 7,000 people took part in anti-nuclear protests in Bremen. About 3,000 people protested outside of RWE's headquarters in Essen. Other smaller rallies were held elsewhere.\n\nChancellor Angela Merkel's coalition announced on 30 May 2011, that Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following Japan's Fukushima I nuclear accidents. Seven of the German power stations were closed temporarily in March, and they will remain off-line and be permanently decommissioned. An eighth was already off line, and will stay so. Between 2011 and 2014 Germany burned more coal, an additional 9.5 million tonnes of oil equivalent.\n\nIn November 2011, thousands of anti-nuclear protesters delayed a train carrying radioactive waste from France to Germany. Many clashes and obstructions made the journey the slowest one since the annual shipments of radioactive waste began in 1995. The shipment, the first since Japan's Fukishima nuclear disaster, faced large protests in France where activists damaged the train tracks. Thousands of people in Germany also interrupted the train's journey, forcing it to proceed at a snail's pace, covering 1,200 kilometers (746 miles) in 109 hours. More than 200 people were reported injured in the protests and several arrests were made. Galvanised by the Fukushima nuclear disaster, first anniversary anti-nuclear demonstrations were held in Germany in March 2012. Organisers say more than 50,000 people in six regions took part.\n\nSpiegel Online has presented this timeline of events associated with the anti-nuclear power movement in Germany:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11702500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11702500", "title": "Battal Gazi", "text": "Battal Gazi\n\n\"Seyyid\" Battal Ghazi is a mythical Muslim Turkish, saintly figure and warrior based in Anatolia (associated primarily with Malatya, where his father, Hüseyin Gazi, was the ruler ), based on the real-life exploits of the 8th-century Umayyad military leader Abdallah al-Battal. His attributed legends, which also form the bulk of the information available on the historic personality, later became an important part in Turkish folk literature.\n\nHis title Seyyid, as well as being an Arabic honorific, may refer, in the form \"Seyyid\", to family ties to Muhammad. The title of \"Seyyid\" or \"Sayyid\", and it is said that Battal Ghazi was an sunni Muslim.\n\nSources available on the historical personality of Abdallah al-Battal consist of legends often written in the mesnevi style, and which may comport historically correct elements or points that support each other, as well as contradictions. For example, he is cited as having participated in his twenties to the Second Arab Siege of Constantinople in 718, and the legends name his Byzantine enemy as \"Leon\", which could be no other than Leo III the Isaurian, the Emperor during the siege. On the basis of this information, his date of birth is reckoned to be around 690-695 and there is a consensus among historians for accepting 740 as the year of his death, at the Battle of Akroinon. On the other hand, in one story Battal Gazi raids the Maiden's Tower and rides away from Üsküdar, on the city's Asian side, with the Emperor's treasures and daughter, an event that is not confirmed by any historical record.\n\nBattal Gazi was revindicated as an ancestor of Danishmend Gazi in the romanced epic on the Turkish Bey, \"Danishmendnâme\", in which stories relating to the two figures are blended, possibly with a view to stress the presence of Islam in Anatolia even before the main Turkish advance following the Battle of Manzikert (modern Malazgirt). The verses that compose Danishmendnâme were compiled from Turkish folk literature for a first time by order of the Anatolian Seljuk Sultan Alâeddin Keykubad, a century after Danishmend's death, and the final form that reached our day is a compendium that was put together under the instructions of the early 15th century Ottoman sultan Murad II.\n\nBattal Gazi remains a spirited figure in Turkey's modern day urban culture. This is partly due to a series of films in which Battal Gazi was incarnated by and immortalised anew under the chiselled features of the Turkish film star Cüneyt Arkın. These modern references sometimes involve touches of indirect humour.\n\nBattal Gazi is buried in Seyitgazi, a town named after him and where he is believed to have been martyred (possibly during a siege of the nearby Amorium), in Eskişehir Province, Turkey. Upon the initiative as of 1207 of Ümmühan Hatun, wife of the Anatolian Seljuk Sultan Gıyaseddin Keyhüsrev I and mother of Alâeddin Keykubad I, Battal Gazi's tomb was extended into a complex containing a mosque, a medrese, cells and ceremonial rooms for dervishes as well as charitable services for the community such as kitchens and a bakery, and it was later renovated extensively under the Ottoman sultan Bayezid II's reign. As such, Seyyid Battal Gazi Complex in Seyitgazi remains a much visited shrine.\n\nOn the other hand, many other localities across Turkey also put forth claims as burial places either for Battal Gazi, or for his father Hüseyin Gazi. A tomb in Divriği and another one in Ankara on top of a hill named after Hüseyin Gazi are the most famous among the shrines thought to contain the father's remains.\n\nThe district centre of Battalgazi in Turkey's Malatya Province, formerly Eskimalatya (\"Old Malatya\") and the previous location of Malatya city, at a distance of 20 km from the modern day urban centre, was renamed in honour of Battal Gazi. Battal Gazi's wife and two children are buried in the town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2977957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2977957", "title": "Bean-feast", "text": "Bean-feast\n\nA bean-feast was an informal term for a celebratory meal or party, especially an annual summer dinner given by an employer to his or her employees, probably derived from a tradition in the Low Countries at Twelfth Night. By extension, colloquially, it describes any festive occasion with a meal and perhaps an outing. The word, and its shorter form \"beano,\" are fairly common in Britain, less known in the United States. An alternative derivation refers the name to the eating of a dish of beans and bacon, and seems to trace to 1725, when Daniel Day of Wapping, London began to entertain friends near his estate at Fairlop in Essex on the first Friday in July.\n\nIn the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, the beanfeast often took the form of a trip to some beauty spot, where the meal was provided. (e.g. ..\"I want a feast, I want a bean feast. Cream buns and doughnuts and fruitcake with no nuts, so good you could go nuts. \" - Veruca Salt, Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory)\n\nIt is derived from the Twelfth Night feast, at which a king cake or pie with a special object or \"favour\" buried in it was a great feature. This remains a common custom in much of Europe and former European colonies; in the US mainly in New Orleans. Elsewhere the favour took various forms, including metal tokens and small pottery figures. In the Low Countries a bean was usual. The bean king for the rest of the night was the person who had the slice of cake containing the bean. The king (or queen) was given a paper crown to wear, and appointed various court officials. When the king took a drink, all the party shouted \"the king drinks\". The subject was often painted by Flemish Baroque and Dutch Golden Age painters, especially Jacob Jordaens and Jan Steen.\n\n"}
{"id": "16114797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16114797", "title": "Bedlah", "text": "Bedlah\n\nThe bedlah is an Arabian costume normally worn by women. The word bedlah is Arabic for \"suit\".\n\nIn the world of belly dance the term bedlah refers simply to the costume that a dancer wears. Most commonly it is used to refer to the matched set of bra and belt that cabaret dancers use, but technically it encompasses all parts of the dancer's costume as well, such as the jewelry, headband, skirt, pants and veil. This is often referred to as a \"Complete Bedlah\". Occasionally it also refers to just one piece of the costume such as the highly ornate belt that tribal dancers wear which may or may not have a matching bra. The term \"Bedlah hardwear\" refers to the more sturdy portions of the dancer's costume, the bra, belt and jewelry and the term \"Bedlah softwear\" includes the flowing fabric portions of the costume, the skirt, pants, vest, choli and/or veil. Bedlah originated in the Western imagination of Victorian painters and was adopted by dancers who catered to foreign audiences who expected the look. Many dancers also adopted the look simply because they liked it, and it has survived to become the most popular costume for oriental dancers across the globe.\n"}
{"id": "15879216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15879216", "title": "Beer in Chile", "text": "Beer in Chile\n\nThe primary beer brewed and consumed in Chile is pale lager, though the country also has a tradition of brewing corn beer, known as chicha. Chile’s beer history has a strong German influence – some of the bigger beer producers are from the country’s southern lake district, a region populated by a great number of German immigrants during the 19th century. Chile also produces English ale-style craft beers while also developing its own craft beer identity.\n\nThere is long tradition of brewing a drink called chicha that might be classified as corn beer by modern standards, though is not considered as such in South America. Chicha was originally brewed with corn, influenced by the Andean cultures of northern Chile and Peru, but during colonial times apple and grape chicha started to be brewed across the country as a cheaper alternative to wine. There were at least four major alcoholic drinks during colonial times in Chile: wine, pisco-aguardiente, apple chicha and grape chicha.\n\nModern beer (Spanish, \"cerveza chilena\") history in Chile began in the 19th century when European beer was first introduced in the years after Chile gained independence. With the arrival of German immigrants around 1850, massive beer production began. By the end of the 19th century, beer was consumed all over the country. Beer consumption and culture then spread across the country from cities with high immigrant populations such as Valdivia and Valparaíso. In 1907, 20 million litres of beer were produced in Valdivia. By 1997, Chilean beer consumption reached 28 liters per year per capita., and by 2013 this had increased to 40 litres per year per capita.\n\nPisco, wine and rum are popular alcoholic drinks in Chile but there has been a slow increase in the sales of lager, pale ale from local microbreweries and imported pale lager. Although Chilean beer consumption is low compared to the rest of the South American region, beer is still the most consumed alcoholic beverage and takes 60% of the total market share for alcoholic drinks. Premium beers alone hold an 18% share of the total market, the highest share seen among the countries of the region.\nCraft beers in Chile\nPart of the so-called premium sector, craft beers have gained ground in recent years, and today there are more than 300 micro-breweries in Chile. Cía Cervecerías Unidas SA, a local company, is the leading Chilean beer company, producing mainly lager beers.\n\nThere are two main big industrial large-scale beer producers in Chile: Compañía de Cervecerías Unidas (CCU) and Cervecería Chile. All others are considered small producers (low volume) and/or craft producers.\n\nCreated in 1902 with the merge of Plagemann, Limache and Gubler & Cousiño beer companies. They produce their own brands of beer and some international brands, along with soft drinks and other alcoholic products. Products include:\n\n\nProduce their own brands and also many known international brands:. Products include:\n\n\nThese include smaller volume beer producers and are considered premium brands.\n\nOther brands that are entirely considered as craft beers. They are generally low or very low volume producers. In Chile there are more than 150 craft beer producers distributed along the 15 Chilean Regions. The list below includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34534118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34534118", "title": "Behavioral urbanism", "text": "Behavioral urbanism\n\nBehavioral urbanism and its related area of study, behavioral architecture, is an interdisciplinary field focused on the interaction between humans and the built environment, studying the effects of social, cognitive, and emotional factors in understanding the spatial behavior of individuals.\n\n"}
{"id": "49615649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49615649", "title": "Chinese Literature (magazine)", "text": "Chinese Literature (magazine)\n\nChinese Literature, in some years Chinese Literature: Fiction, Poetry, Art, was an English-language literary magazine of Chinese literature in translation. It was founded in 1951 by Yeh Chun-chan (叶君健), Sidney Shapiro, Yang Xianyi, and Gladys Yang. The headquarters was in Beijing. In 1956, \"Chinese Literature\" was incorporated into the state-run Foreign Languages Press. Publication ceased in 2000, but newer contents appeared on its website for a time.\n\nThe magazine ran quarterly from 1951–1957, bimonthly in 1958, monthly from 1959–1983, quarterly from 1984–1999, and bimonthly in 2000. Over 2000 writers and artists were featured in the issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "373775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373775", "title": "Comb", "text": "Comb\n\nA comb is a tool consisting of a shaft, usually wider than it is long, that holds a row of teeth for pulling through the hair to clean, untangle, or style it. Combs have been used since prehistoric times, having been discovered in very refined forms from settlements dating back to 5,000 years ago in Persia.\n\nCombs consist of a shaft and teeth that are placed at a perpendicular angle to the shaft. Combs can be made out of a number of materials, most commonly plastic, metal or wood. Combs made from ivory and tortoiseshell were once common but concerns for the animals that produce them have reduced their usage. When made from wood, combs are largely made of boxwood, cherry wood or other fine-grained wood. Good quality wooden combs are usually handmade and polished.\n\nCombs come in various shapes and sizes depending on what they are used for. A hairdressing comb may have a thin, tapered handle for parting hair and close teeth. Common hair combs usually have wider teeth halfway and finer teeth for the rest of the comb. Hot combs were used solely for straightening hair during the colonial era in North America.\n\nA hairbrush comes in both manual and electric models. It is larger than a comb, and is also commonly used for shaping, styling and cleaning hair. A combination comb and hairbrush was patented in the 19th century.\n\nCombs can be used for many purposes. Historically, their main purpose was securing long hair in place, decorating the hair, matting sections of hair for dreadlocks, or keeping a kippah or skullcap in place. In Spain, a \"peineta\" is a large decorative comb used to keep a mantilla in place.\n\nIn industry and craft, combs are used in separating cotton fibres from seeds and other debris (the cotton gin, a mechanized version of the comb, is one of the machines that ushered in the Industrial Revolution). A comb is used to distribute colors in paper marbling to make the swirling colour patterns in comb-marbled paper.\n\nCombs are also a favorite tool for police investigators to collect hair and dandruff samples that can be used in ascertaining dead or living persons' identities, as well as their state of health, toxicological profiles, and so forth.\n\nStringing a plant's leaf or a piece of paper over one side of the comb and humming with cropped lips on the opposite side dramatically increases the high-frequency harmonic content of the hum produced by the human voice box, and the resulting spread sound spectrum can be modulated by changing the resonating frequency of the oral cavity.\n\nThis was the inspiration for the kazoo, a membranophone. Moreover, the comb is also a lamellophone. Comb teeth have harmonic qualities of their own, determined by their shape, length, and material. A comb with teeth of unequal length, capable of producing different notes when picked, eventually evolved into the thumb piano and musical box.\n\nThis type of comb has loose, thick teeth and is usually used on kinky or Afro-textured hair. It is longer and thinner than the typical comb, and it is sometimes worn in the hair. Afro picks were common in many melanesian and polynesian societies but were usually an adornment and worn on ceremonial occasions.\n\nSpecialized combs such as \"flea combs\" or \"nit combs\" can be used to remove macroscopic parasites and cause them damage by combing. A comb with teeth fine enough to remove nits is sometimes called a \"fine-toothed comb\", as in the metaphoric usage \"go over [something] with a fine-toothed comb\", meaning to search closely and in detail. Sometimes in this meaning, \"fine-toothed comb\" has been reanalysed as \"fine toothcomb\" and then shortened to \"toothcomb\", or changed into forms such as \"the finest of toothcombs\".\n\nSharing combs is a common cause of parasitic infections much like sharing a hat, as one user can leave a comb with eggs or live parasites, facilitating the transmission of lice, fleas, mites, fungi, and other undesirables. Siblings are also more likely to pass on nits to each other if they share a comb, so it is advisable to buy each child their own comb.\n\nAn unbreakable plastic comb is a comb that, despite being made of plastic rather than (more expensive) metal, does not shatter into multiple pieces if dropped on a hard surface such as bathroom tiles, a hardwood floor, or pavement. Such combs were introduced in the mid-twentieth century. Today most plastic combs are unbreakable as technology has reached a point of understanding the causation of brittleness in these products.\n\nModern artisan combs crafted from a wide variety of new and recycled materials have become popular over recent years. Used skateboard decks, vinyl records, brass, titanium alloy, acrylic and exotic wood are a few of the materials being used.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42035094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42035094", "title": "Cuisine of Guinea-Bissau", "text": "Cuisine of Guinea-Bissau\n\nGuinea-Bissauan cuisine is the food culture of Guinea-Bissau, a nation on Africa's west coast along the Atlantic Ocean. Rice is a staple in the diet of residents near the coast and millet a staple in the interior. Much of the rice is imported and food insecurity is a problem in large part due to coups, corruption and inflation. Cashews are grown for export. Coconut, palm nut, and olives are also grown.\n\nFish, shellfish, fruits and vegetables are commonly eaten along with cereal grains, milk, curd and whey. The Portuguese encouraged peanut production. Vigna subterranea (Bambara groundnut) and Macrotyloma geocarpum (Hausa groundnut) are also grown. Black-eyed peas are also part of the diet. Palm oil is harvested.\n\nCommon dishes include soups and stews. Common ingredients include yams, sweet potato, cassava, onion, tomato and plantain. Spices, peppers and chilis are used in cooking, including Aframomum melegueta seeds (Guinea pepper).\n\nSeptember 12 is Amilcar Cabral's birthday, a celebration that includes the eating of yassa, chicken prepared with mustard, citrus and onion. Other holidays and festivals include Carnival in February, Colonization Martyr's Day on August 3, Readjustment Movement Day in November, Independence Day on September 24th, Mocidade Day on December 1 and New Year Day.\n\nFamily ceremonies to mark birth, circumcision, marriage, and death are celebrated with palm wine or rum. Animal sacrifice is also performed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1929224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1929224", "title": "Culture of Afghanistan", "text": "Culture of Afghanistan\n\nThe culture of Afghanistan has been around for over three millennia, tracing record to at least the time of the Achaemenid Empire in 500 BCE. Afghanistan translates to \"Land of the Afghans\" or \"Place of Afghans\" in the nation's official languages, Pashto and Dari. It is mostly a tribal society with different regions of the country having its own subculture. Nearly all Afghans follow Islamic traditions, celebrate the same holidays, dress the same, consume the same food, listen to the same music and are multi-lingual to a certain extent.\n\nIn the southern and eastern region, as well as western Pakistan which was historically part of Afghanistan, the Pashtuns live according to the Pashtun culture by following Pashtunwali (meaning \"the way of the Pashtuns\"). The western, northern, and central regions of Afghanistan are influenced by neighboring Central Asian and Persian cultures. Some of the non-Pashtuns who live in close proximity with Pashtuns have adopted Pashtunwali in a process called Pashtunization (or \"Afghanization\") while some Pashtuns and others become Persianized.\n\nThe lands of Afghanistan have a long history of art, with the world's earliest known usage of oil painting found in cave murals in the country. A notable art style that developed in Afghanistan and eastern Pakistan is Gandhara art, produced by a fusion of Greco-Roman art and Buddhist art between the 1st and 7th centuries CE. Later eras saw increased use of the Persian miniature style, with Kamaleddin Behzad of Herat being one of the most notable miniature artists of the Timurid and early Safavid periods. Since the 1900s, the nation began to use Western techniques in art. Abdul Ghafoor Breshna was a prominent Afghan painter and sketch artist from Kabul during the 20th century.\n\nAfghanistan's art was originally almost entirely done by men, but recently women are entering the arts programs at Kabul University. Art is largely centered at the National Museum of Afghanistan, the National Gallery of Afghanistan and the National Archives of Afghanistan in Kabul. There are a number of art schools in the country. The Center for Contemporary Arts Afghanistan (CCAA) in Kabul provides young people to learn contemporary paintings.\nTraditionally, only women have been involved in theater acting. Recently, in theater arts, women have begun to take center stage.\n\nOther known forms of art in the country are music, poetry, and several sports. The art of making carpets has been prominent for centuries. Afghanistan is known for making beautiful oriental rugs. The Afghan carpet has certain prints that make them unique to Afghanistan.\n\nSince the 1980s, the nation has witnessed several wars so music has been suppressed and recording for outsiders minimal. During the 1990s, the Taliban government banned instrumental music and much public music-making. Many musicians and singers continued to play their trade in the cities of other countries. Pakistani cities such as Peshawar, Karachi and Islamabad are important centers for the distribution of Afghan music. Kabul has long been the regional cultural capital, but outsiders have tended to focus on the cities of Herat and Mazar-i-Sharif with its \"Qataghani\" style. Lyrics across the country are typically in both Dari-Persian and Pashto. Hindi songs from Bollywood films are also very popular in Afghanistan.\nAfghans enjoy music by playing many types of instruments. They also enjoy performing the Attan, which is considered the national dance of Afghanistan. What is typically heard in the country are folk songs or ballads. Many of the songs are known by almost everyone and have been around for many years. The main traditional Afghan music instruments include:\n\n\nPoetry in Afghanistan has long been a cultural tradition and passion. It is mainly in Persian/Dari and Pashto languages, although in modern times it is also becoming more recognized in Afghanistan's other languages. Classic Persian and Pashto poetry plays an important role in the Afghan culture. Poetry has always been one of the major educational pillars in the region, to the level that it has integrated itself into culture. Some notable poets include Khushal Khan Khattak, Rahman Baba, Massoud Nawabi, Nazo Tokhi, Ahmad Shah Durrani, and Ghulam Muhammad Tarzi. Some of the famous Persian poets and authors from the 10th to 15th centuries are Rumi, Rabi'a Balkhi, Khwaja Abdullah Ansari, Jami, Alisher Navoi, Sanai, Abu Mansur Daqiqi, Farrukhi Sistani, Unsuri, and Anvari. Contemporary Persian language poets and writers include Khalilullah Khalili and Sufi Ashqari.\n\nAfghans universally prize wit and cleverness in speech. They use proverbs in their daily conversations far more often than Westerners do, and with far greater effect. An appropriate Afghan proverb inserted at the right time can carry the weight of an entire explanation or discussion. An Afghan proverb used well, especially by a foreigner, leads most Afghans either to laugh in genuine surprise and delight, or to nod thoughtfully while considering its full meaning and nuance.\n\n\"Zarbul Masalha\" (pronounced zar-bull mah-sal-HAA) means \"Proverbs\" in Dari, and these \"zarbul masalha\" deeply reflect Afghan culture. Although often humble in origin, Afghan proverbs can rival the great words of famous philosophers and writers throughout world history in their richness, meaning and color. A good Dari proverb, properly used, can match the wisdom of Confucius, the depth of Zen Koan, the whimsy of Lewis Carroll, the homespun words of Mark Twain, and the lyricism of Shakespeare - all in one short, meaningful phrase.\n\nAbove all, the proper use of Afghan proverbs demonstrates respect and understanding of Afghan culture at a very high level. Their use can lead to deeper personal connections that in turn help bridge very different religions, ethnicities, customs and traditions. Regardless of their many differences, people all over the world share many common feelings, opinions and hopes. Afghan proverbs highlight these similarities, and show our common humanity. U.S. Navy Captain Edward Zellem pioneered the use of Afghan proverbs as a positive relationship-building tool during the war in Afghanistan, and in 2012 he published two bilingual collections of Afghan proverbs in Dari and English.\n\nThe region has made major contributions to the world's architecture. UNESCO has acknowledged Afghanistan's role by declaring the Minaret of Jam and the Valley of Bamiyan, home of the famous Buddhas destroyed by the Taliban, World Heritage Sites.\n\nOther examples of important contributions to architecture may be found in Herat, Mazar-I-Sharif, Ghazni Kandahar, and Firuzkoh in Ghor Province.\n\nAfghanistan has a wide varying landscape allowing for many different crops. Afghan food is largely based upon cereals like wheat, maize, barley and rice, which are the nation's chief crops. Fresh and dried fruits is the most important part of Afghan diet. Afghanistan is well known for its fine fruits, especially pomegranates, grapes, and its extra-sweet jumbo-size melons.\n\nThe sports in Afghanistan are organized by the Afghan Sports Federation, which promotes football, cricket, basketball, volleyball, golf, handball, boxing, taekwondo, track and field, bowling, skating and several others.\n\nCricket and football are the most popular sports in Afghanistan. The Afghanistan national cricket team, which was formed in 2001, has held matches against all other international cricket teams. The Afghan team rapidly rose through the World Cricket League since early 2008. It participated in the 2009 ICC World Cup Qualifier, 2010 ICC World Cricket League Division One, and 2010 ICC World Twenty20 where they played India and South Africa. The team won four times in a row, the ACC Twenty20 Cup in 2007, 2009, 2011, and 2013. It played against top ranking teams in the 2012 ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup and the 2012 ICC World Twenty20. In the national level, cricket matches are played between provinces, mainly between the south and eastern provinces of the country. In the other sports, Afghans usually play with challengers of neighboring states and sometimes with other Asian countries.\n\nThe Afghanistan national football team was founded in 1922, joined FIFA in 1948 and the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) in 1954. Although it did not play in any international games from 1984 to 2003 due to the war, it is now striving and hoping to make it to FIFA. The Afghanistan women's national football team was formed in 2007. The Ghazi Stadium, which was built during the reign of King Amanullah Khan, was once used for a venue for public executions by the Taliban government. The stadium is currently used mostly for football matches between teams from different provinces of the country as well as neighboring countries. Basketball has existed in Afghanistan since at least the 1970s, and is slowly becoming popular again. It is played by both Afghan men and women. Additionally, Afghans in the north of the country enjoy the sport of buzkashi.\n\nEducation in Afghanistan includes K-12 and higher education, which is supervised by the Ministry of Education and Ministry of Higher Education in Kabul, Afghanistan. There are about 10,000 schools of which 4,000 were built in the last decade. More than 100,000 teachers were trained and recruited in the same period. It was reported in 2011 that more than seven million male and female students were enrolled in schools. Some of the well known schools in Kabul are Habibia High School, Lycée Esteqlal, Amani High School, Aisha-i-Durani School, Ghazi High School and Rahman Baba High School. The Ahmad Shah Baba High School and Zarghuna Anna High School are two of the oldest schools in Kandahar.\nSince the country has one of the lowest literacy rates in the world, the United States began establishing a number of Lincoln learning centers to help with this problem and promote American culture in Afghanistan. They are set up to serve as programming platforms offering English language classes, library facilities, programming venues, Internet connectivity, educational and other counseling services. A goal of the program is to reach at least 4,000 Afghan citizens per month per location. The military and national police are now provided with mandatory literacy courses. In addition to this, Baghch-e-Simsim (based on the American Sesame Street) was launched in late 2011 to help Afghan children learn from preschool onward. Programs in the show \"will be partly filmed in Afghanistan with the rest\" lifted from other versions in Muslim countries including Egypt and Bangladesh, as well as Mexico and Russia.\n\nHigher education is provided by various universities throughout the country, which include the American University of Afghanistan, Kabul University, Polytechnical University of Kabul, Herat University, Balkh University, Nangarhar University, Kandahar University, Khost University, Bakhtar University, and a heap of others. There is also one military college, located in Kabul. Recently with help from UNESCO, over 1,000 women have taken the university entrance exam. As of 2011, about 62,000 students are enrolled in different universities around the country.\n\nPashto and Dari are both the official languages of Afghanistan, although Dari (Afghan Persian) serves as the lingua franca for the majority. People in the northern and central areas of the country usually speak Persian/Dari, while those living in the south and east speak Pashto. Afghans living in the western regions of Afghanistan speak both Dari and Pashto. Most citizens are fluent in both languages, especially those living in major cities where the population is multi-ethnic. Several other languages are spoken in their own regions, which includes Uzbek, Turkmen and Balochi. English is gradually becoming popular among the young generation. There are smaller number of Afghans who can understand Russian, mainly among the northern Tajik, Uzbek and Turkmen groups.\n\nIslam is the main religion of Afghanistan and over 99% of Afghans are Muslims. An estimated 84.7–90% of the population adhere to Sunni Islam, while an estimated 7–15% practice Shia Islam, and approximately 1% are followers of other religions. \n\nIn addition to Muslims, there are thousands of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus living in the country. They are usually found in the major cities such as Kabul, Kandahar, Herat, Mazar-i-Sharif, Jalalabad, and Lashkar Gah.\n\nHouses in rural Afghanistan are traditionally made out of mud, and have a series of rooms located around a private rectangular courtyard where women and children play, cook and socialize. Married sons share the same house as their parents in most cases, although they have separate quarters. Afghan houses contain a special room where men socialize with each other known as a \"hujra\". In the cities, many Afghans live in modern style houses or apartments. There are many new housing schemes being built in all the major cities of the country. Some of these include the \"New Kabul City\" next to the capital, the \"Ghazi Amanullah Khan City\" near Jalalabad, and the \"Aino Mina\" in Kandahar. The nomadic kuchi people live in large tents because they are constantly on the move from one part of the country to another.\n\nAfghanistan's religious holidays are nearly the same as Islamic holidays. Some of the most important include Eid al-Fitr (end of Ramadan), Eid al-Adha, Ashura, and Mawlid. Religious minorities of Afghanistan, such as the Hindus, Sikhs, Zoroastrians, and others celebrate holidays unique to their respective religion.\n\nFarmer's Day, also known as Nauruz (Nowruz), is an ancient annual Afghan festival which celebrates both the beginning of spring and the New Year. The observances usually last two weeks, culminating on the first day of the Afghan New Year, March 21, and corresponds to the first day of the Persian Calendar.\n\nNauruz is related to a religion called Zoroastrianism which was in practice in ancient Persia before the emergence of Islam. This festival is to celebrate the arrival of spring as plants, trees, and flowers start to bloom making the weather pleasant. On the day of Nauruz, families usually celebrate the festival by cooking food and going out for a picnic. Families cook various kinds of meals, Samanak, and Haft-mewah or dry fruits that start with the letter (س) or (S) which represents the arrival of spring season. Haft-mewah contains seven dry fruits which families place in warm water two to three days before Nauruz. Samanak is another type of dessert made from wheat and sugar. Women usually get together days before Nauruz to prepare Samanak. They pour the ingredients into a big pot placed on an open fire and take turns to stir the wheat and sugar in the pot before it turns into a thick paste. Once prepared, the dessert is then served on the day of Nauruz.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7630271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7630271", "title": "Dalton International", "text": "Dalton International\n\nDalton International is a worldwide network of Dalton Plan schools and Dalton specialists. The alumni of Dalton school are called Daltonians. \"The Daltonian\" is also the official newspaper name of Dalton International.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8191076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8191076", "title": "Digital dark age", "text": "Digital dark age\n\nThe digital dark age is a lack of historical information in the digital age as a direct result of outdated file formats, software, or hardware that becomes corrupt, scarce, or inaccessible as technologies evolve and data decays. Future generations may find it difficult or impossible to retrieve electronic documents and multimedia, because they have been recorded in an obsolete and obscure file format. The name derives from the term \"Dark Ages\" in the sense that there could be a relative lack of records in the digital age, as documents are transferred to digital formats and original copies are lost. An early mention of the term was at a conference of the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) in 1997. The term was also mentioned in 1998 at the Time and Bits conference, which was co-sponsored by the Long Now Foundation and the Getty Conservation Institute.\n\nThe problem is not limited to text documents, but applies equally to photos, video, audio and other kinds of electronic documents. One concern leading to the use of the term is that documents are stored on physical media which require special hardware in order to be read and that this hardware will not be available in a few decades from the time the document was created. For example, it is already the case that disk drives capable of reading 5¼-inch floppy disks are not readily available.\n\nThe digital dark age also applies to the problems which arise due to obsolete file formats. In such a case, it is the lack of necessary software which causes problems when retrieving stored documents. This is especially problematic when proprietary formats are used, in which case it might be impossible to write appropriate software to read the file.\n\nMagnetic tape data storage is a method of storing data on magnetic tape. It is used as a backup method of storage for digital storage and is one way of mitigating a possible digital dark age. For example, in 2011 hundreds of thousands of Google accounts were reset and the data in those accounts went missing. Google was able to restore the data to the email accounts from the data stored on magnetic tape. Magnetic data storage is also used by financial institutions, hospitals, movie studios, and manufacturing companies to backup content. Magnetic tape can hold hundreds of terabytes of data.\n\nThe Internet Archive has stated that one of their goals is to prevent the digital dark age.\n\nEven Vinton Cerf, Vice President of Google, showed his concerns about data preservation in the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science: \"As the way that we store information about ourselves develops, memories stored in files that use older technology are becoming harder to access. That could mean that historians of the future are unable to learn about our lives\". His suggested solution consists of preserving a sample of every piece of software and hardware that has ever existed so that it never becomes obsolete. He proposed taking an X-ray snapshot of the content, the application and the operating system along with a description of the machine. This information should be then stored, instead of in a museum, in servers in the cloud. \n\nA famous example is NASA, whose early space records have suffered from a dark age issue more than once. For over a decade, magnetic tapes from the 1976 Viking Mars landing were unprocessed. When later analyzed, the data was unreadable as it was in an unknown format and the original programmers had either died or left NASA. The images were eventually extracted following many months of puzzling through the data and examining how the recording machines functioned.\n\nAnother example is the BBC Domesday Project in which a survey of the nation was compiled 900 years after the Domesday Book was published. While the original Domesday Book is still readable today, there were great fears that the discs of the Domesday Project would become unreadable as software and disk drives capable of reading the format became rarer and rarer. However, in 2002 the CAMiLEON project migrated the information to a system called DomesEm, allowing it to be accessed on modern computers.\n\nEncryption may exacerbate the problem of preserving data, since decoding adds complexity even when the relevant software is available. Historically, encrypted data is quite rare, but even the very simple means available throughout history have provided many examples of documents that can only be read with great effort. For example, it took the capacity of a distributed computing project to break the mechanically generated code of a single brief World War II submarine tactical message. Modern encryption is being used in many more documents and media due to publishers wanting the promised protections of DRM.\n\nAs more records are stored in digital form, there have been several measures to standardize electronic file formats so software to read them is widely available and can be re-implemented on new platforms if necessary.\n\nPDF/A is an open standard based on Adobe Systems PDF format. It has been widely adopted by governments and archives around the world, such as the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Open Document Format for Office Applications (OpenDocument) has been standardized by OASIS in 2005, and by ISO in 2006. Since then, support for OpenDocument has been implemented in a large number of open source and proprietary software. Therefore, using OpenDocument is one option for archiving editable documents from office applications. More broadly, the use of open source software is a prevention measure. Since the source code for reading and writing a file format is open, the code can be used as a base for future implementations. In 2007, the chief information officer of the UK's National Archives stated \"We welcome open-source software because it makes our lives easier\".\n\nIn 2007, Microsoft created a partnership with the UK's National Archives to prevent the digital dark age and \"unlock millions of unreadable stored computer files\". UK's National Archives now accepts various file formats for long term sustenance, including Office Open XML, PDF and OpenDocument.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8231695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8231695", "title": "Dionysius Exiguus' Easter table", "text": "Dionysius Exiguus' Easter table\n\nDionysius Exiguus's Easter table was constructed in the year 525 by Dionysius Exiguus for the years 532–626. He obtained it from an Easter table attributed to Patriarch Cyril of Alexandria for the years 437–531. The latter was constructed around the year 440 by means of extrapolation from an Alexandrian Easter table constructed around the year 390 by Patriarch Theophilus of Alexandria. The great historical importance of Dionysius' Easter table is twofold: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4226386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4226386", "title": "Dozo", "text": "Dozo\n\nThe Dozo (also Donzo, Bambara for \"hunter\", pl. donzow) are traditional hunters in northern Côte d'Ivoire, southeast Mali, and Burkina Faso, and members of a co-fraternity containing initiated hunters and sons of Dozo, called a \"Donzo Ton\". Not an ethnic group, the Dozo are drawn mostly from Mandé-speaking groups, but are also found among Dyula-speaking communities and most other ethnic groups in Côte d'Ivoire. Dozo societies increased in the last decades of the twentieth century, and Dozo groups came into political prominence during the Ivorian Civil War.\n\nThe Donzo Ton (\"Ton\" is a Mandé word for age-group, religious, or vocational associations) are but one of a number of hunter fraternities common in Mandé-speaking areas of West Africa. Similar, and in the case of West Africa closely related groups, exist as the Kamajor in Sierra Leone, Poro in Liberia, the Mayi-Mayi in Democratic Republic of the Congo, and the Karamojong in Uganda. Sons of Dozos, as well as new adherents, are able to be initiated into the Ton, and undergo a series of secret rituals. There has been a long history of these hunter collectives (the Segu Bambara empire is said to have grown from such a \"Ton\") and hunters were often viewed by farming or pastoralist neighbours as possessing special power, wisdom and strength. Collective organisations, as with many vocations in West Africa, existed in part to train and pass on needed skills. Hunters, though, are found in every community, and are not a strictly inherited role.\nIt is believed that the amulets (\"gris-gris\") worn by Dozos possess magical properties protecting them from harm, and amplifying their vision and hearing. Such amulets, inherited brown hunting clothing, as well as special hats, are said to make them bulletproof. Each local Donzo Ton is led by an elder hunter, the \"donzokuntigi\". Along with ritual and initiation, local Donzo Ton will meet to discuss their work, organise hunts, or settle internal grievances, often in the all-night \"tonsigi\" gathering. In this way, the Donzo Ton operates much like a western guild.\n\nPart of the cultural and ritual tradition of the Donzow surrounds sacrifice and protection of the community. In traditional belief, wild animals killed by hunters released a nyama, a destructive spirit which afflicted the community benefiting from the kill. Donzo Ton trained to perform rituals, cleansing the nyama and enabling them to both share their bounty with the community of non-hunters, and act as spiritual guardians of settled communities from malevolent forces of the forest or bush.\n\nWhile there are records of hunter \"Ton\"s going back to the Mali Empire, since the 1990s there has been a particular growth of local collectives of Donzo Ton in Côte d'Ivoire. It is believed that this growth first originated along the border with Mali, and spread into forested regions of Côte d'Ivoire. In Mali, hunter associations were organised into a national union (\"l`Association Nationale des Chasseurs\"). This is seen as the birth of the \"Benkadi\", a network of Donzo Ton. By the year 2000 there were over 22,000 official members.\n\nOne explanation for the huge growth in the Benkadi network in the 1990s is the rapid increase in deforestation (and thus more scarce hunting land) in the north, economic hardship in other vocations, along with the growing insecurity across the country fed by fears of civil war spreading from Liberia and Sierra Leone. World Bank-mandated structural adjustment and a currency devaluation in 1994 helped spread an unprecedented crime wave. These hunter groups, then, were simultaneously respected (even feared) for their power by neighbours while growing in numbers and organisation while the government slid into ethnic conflict and civil war. In many places the Benkadi were hired or simply stepped in to fill this vacuum.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1990s, President Houphouët-Boigny had called on public-minded citizens to aid the police, and as crime increased, local officials drafted in hunters in Korhogo and Ferkessédougou. Not only were the hunter militias successful, but their fame spread far beyond the north. Donzow became a common sight in towns and on the roads. They were hired by locals and both sides in the Ivorian Civil War as soldiers, to guard vehicles, direct traffic, or patrol religious sites. This success fed into the growth of Benkadi groups in all parts of Côte d'Ivoire, as the civil war and fragile peace made local organisation of security much sought after. In Abidjan and Bouaké. Donzo Ton leaders opened security offices, trading not only on their northern successes, but on a public perception of special (even magical) abilities of Donzow. Unemployed men from around the country came to Korhogo and Odienné, home of Benkadi leadership, to be initiated into a Donzo Ton, and thus have access to work as well-paid security guards.\n\nWhile Donzow became guards for hire in the unstable years before the 2002–2005 Ivorian Civil War, their network became associated with northern groups who led the rebel forces. The Donzo Ton, viewed as saviours by some in the south, were also seen as unsophisticated throwbacks to a pre-modern era by many in cosmopolitan Abidjan. The transnational and northern source of the Donzo Ton were seen to conflict with the ethnic nationalism of Ivoirité which feared the presence of Burkinabé labourers and immigrants from Mali as not being \"true\" Ivorians. Politically, it was Rassemblement des Républicains (RDR) politicians from the north who first entrusted the Donzow with policing duties, and the Donzo Ton leadership became associated with the RDR. Nationalist Presidents Henri Konan Bédié, and later Laurent Gbagbo, condemned these armed Benkadi groups as regressive, divisive and dangerous. It was not surprising, then, when the September 2002 coup began the civil war, northern forces included many identifiable Donzow. One rebel group, the Mouvement populaire ivoirien du Grand Ouest (MPIGO) was thought to be one-fifth Donzow. This participation, while earning the enmity of many in the south, has made leaders of the Donzo Ton Benkadi network powerful figures whose support has been sought by Prime Minister (and former rebel leader) Guillaume Soro's Patriotic Movement of Côte d'Ivoire. Kuruma Lansine, public head of the Benkadi has become a political leader for standing by and speaking for \"the dozos\".\n\nWhile most studies stress the stabilising nature the Donzo Ton had on the country both before and after the civil war, human rights organisations have documented a pattern of lawlessness, intimidation, and extrajudicial killings by Donzow groups beginning from at least 1997, through the 1999 coup (in which Donzo Ton set up checkpoints on roads across the north), and the 2002–2005 war.\n\nIn 2017 local civilians accused the Malian government of arming groups of Dozo, who have allegedly carried out a spate of killings of nomadic Fula populations.\n\nIn June 2018 Dozo surrounded a village in the Mopti Region, separated members of the Fula ethnic group from the other villagers and killed at least 32 of them. The Fula complain that they are being regularly targeted by the traditional hunters in the name of the fight against jihadists. They accuse the Malian military of supporting such incidents.\n\nThe Dozo are also known for their praise singers (see Griot) and rituals, often accompanied by the dozo n’goni, a variant of n'goni West African lute said to have originated among the Senufo hunters of Burkina Faso.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19827678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19827678", "title": "Dubai Opera Ball", "text": "Dubai Opera Ball\n\nThe Vienna Opera Ball Dubai is part of the Vienna Opera Ball series, and has taken place on two occasions in Dubai of the United Arab Emirates.\n\nThe first Dubai Opera Ball was held on February 17, 2005, at Madinat Jumeirah. Its main patron was Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, President of the Department of Civil Aviation, Chairman of The Emirates Group.\n\nThe second Dubai Opera Ball took place on Thursday, March 16, 2006, again at the Madinat Jumeirah and under the patronage of Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum. Emirates Airline was a title sponsor.\n\n"}
{"id": "16510177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16510177", "title": "Early Modern Japanese", "text": "Early Modern Japanese\n\nThe period spanned roughly 250 years extending from the 17th century through half of the 19th century. Politically, this generally corresponds with the Edo period.\n\nAt the beginning of the 17th century, the center of government moved to Edo from Kamigata under the control of the Tokugawa shogunate. Until the early Edo period, the Kamigata dialect, the ancestor of the modern Kansai dialect, was the most influential dialect. However, since the late Edo period, the Edo dialect, the ancestor of the modern Tokyo dialect, became the most influential dialect, during the time in which the country closed its borders to foreigners. Compared to the previous centuries, the Tokugawa rule brought about much stability. The newfound stability made the importance of the warrior class gradually fall, to be replaced by the merchant class. There was much economic growth, and new forms of artistic developments appeared such as Ukiyo-e, Kabuki, and Bunraku. This included new literary genres such as Ukiyozōshi, Sharebon (pleasure districts), Kokkeibon (commoners), and Ninjōbon developed. Major authors included Ihara Saikaku, Chikamatsu Monzaemon, Matsuo Bashō, Shikitei Sanba, and Santō Kyōden.\n\nThere were five vowels: /i, e, a, o, u/.\n\n\nDuring Middle Japanese, word-initial /e/ and /o/ were realized with the semivowels and preceding the vowel, respectively . Both were realized as simple vowels by the middle of the 18th century.\n\nThe high vowels /i, u/ become voiceless between voiceless consonants or the end of the word. This is noted in a number of foreign texts:\n\nMiddle Japanese had two types of long \"o\": and . During this period, both of these merged into by first half of the 17th century. During the transition, instances of temporarily had a tendency to become short in the Kamigata dialect.\n\nIn addition, each of the other vowels could be lengthened because of various contractions in Edo dialect. Most continue to be used in Modern Japanese of both Tokyo and the rest of the Kanto region but are not part of Standard Japanese.\n\nThe long /uː/ was developed during Middle Japanese and remains unchanged.\n\nMiddle Japanese had the following consonant inventory:\n\n/t, s, z, h/ each have a number of allophones found before the high vowels [i, ɯ]:\n\nSeveral major developments occurred:\n\nMiddle Japanese had a syllable final -t. This is gradually replaced with the open syllable /tu/.\n\nThe labial /kwa, gwa/ merge with their non-labial counterparts into [ka, ga].\n\nThe consonants /s, z/, /t/, /n/, /h, b/, /p/, /m/, and /r/ could be palatalized.\n\nDepalatalization may also be seen in the Edo dialect:\n\nMiddle Japanese had a series of prenasalized voiced plosives and fricatives: . During this stage they lose their prenasalization resulting in .\n\nEarly Modern Japanese has five verbal conjugations:\n\nAs already had already begun during Middle Japanese, the verbal morphology system continues to evolve. The total number of verb classes is reduced from nine to five. Specifically, the r-irregular and n-irregular regularize as quadrigrade, and the upper and lower bigrade classes merge with their respective monograde. This leaves the quadrigrade, upper monograde, lower monograde, k-irregular, s-irregular.\n\nThere were two types of adjectives: regular adjectives and adjectival nouns.\n\nHistorically the adjective was sub-classified into two types: those where the adverbial form ends in -ku and those that end in –siku. That distinction is lost during this stage.\n\nHistorically the adjectival noun was sub-classified into two categories: -nar and -tar. During this stage, -tar vanishes leaving only -na.\n\n"}
{"id": "3334237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3334237", "title": "Fanfare (magazine)", "text": "Fanfare (magazine)\n\nFanfare is an American bimonthly magazine devoted to reviewing recorded music in all playback formats. It mainly covers classical music, but since inception, has also featured a jazz column in every issue.\n\n\"Fanfare\" was founded on 1 September 1977 \"as a labor of love\" by an elementary-school teacher turned editor named Joel Bruce Flegler (born 1941). After years, he is still the publisher.\n\nThe magazine now runs to over 600 pages in a 6\" x 9\" format with about 80% of the editorial copy devoted to record reviews, and a front section with a substantial number of interviews and feature articles. It avoids equipment and pop music coverage and manages to include reviews of many more classical releases than is typical for other magazines in this genre. Subscriptions include online access to current content and archives of past issues.\n\n\"Fanfare\"'s editorial contributors have a range of expertise from the medieval to contemporary work. Describing itself as \"the magazine for serious record collectors\", its reviews cover not only the quality of live performance, but also that of sound and recording. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "459202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459202", "title": "Flag of Mali", "text": "Flag of Mali\n\nThe national flag of Mali (French: \"Drapeau du Mali\") is a tricolour with three equal vertical stripes. From the hoist (the place where the flagpole meets the flag) the colours are green, gold, and red, the pan-African colours. The flag of Mali is almost identical to the flag of Guinea, with the exception that the colours are in reverse order.\nThe green stands for fertility of the land, gold stands for purity and mineral wealth and the red symbolizes the blood shed for independence from the French. \n\nThe current flag was adopted on March 1, 1961. The original flag was adopted on April 4, 1959, when Mali joined the Mali Federation. This flag was the same, except the golden stripe had a human stick figure, a \"kanaga\", in black, with arms raised to the sky. The figure was removed due to the opposition, in a country whose population is 90% Muslim, of Islamic fundamentalists (see Aniconism in Islam, the belief against making pictures of the human figure).\n"}
{"id": "16049277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16049277", "title": "Gente de razón", "text": "Gente de razón\n\nGente de razón (, \"people of reason\" or \"rational people\") is a Spanish term used in colonial Spanish America and modern Hispanic America to refer to people who were culturally Hispanicized. It was a social distinction that existed alongside the racial categories of the \"sistema de castas\". Indigenous peoples (\"indios\" or \"Indians\"), who maintained their culture and lived in their legally recognized communities (the \"repúblicas de indios\"), and mixed-race people (the \"castas\"), especially the poor in urban centers, were generally considered not to be \"gente de razón\".\n\nThe term is ultimately derived from Aristotelian and Roman legal ideas about the use of reason in persons and the status of minority before the law. Under Roman law many adults (women, grown men who were not heads of household) were deemed legal minors under the protection of a tutor (usually the pater familias).\n\nAdditionally, in the early establishment of New Spain, indigenous peoples who converted and were baptized into the Catholic religion often adopted Christian first names and Spanish last names as signs of outward transformation. Colonial leaders used the term \"gente de razón\" (\"people of reason\") to distinguish these converted natives from unconverted ones.\n\nSince the sixteenth century the Laws of the Indies categorized Indians as minors under the protection of the Crown (cf. Dhimmi status in the Ottoman legal system). Slaves, and by extension all Blacks, were also legally deemed not to belong to the \"gente de razón\". These groups were also excluded from the priesthood for most of the colonial period.\n\nIn frontier regions such as Chile, Río de la Plata or the Provincias Internas, the category of \"gente de razón\" gained additional importance and it was interpreted differently than in the areas with a longer Spanish presence. Since the term was used to distinguish between acculturated people who lived in Spanish settlements (the \"repúblicas de españoles\") from the \"gente sin razón\" (\"people without reason\"), or Natives who had not accepted Spanish rule or who lived on missions, it often included acculturated people who normally might not have been included. These areas were settled by Hispanized Indians from the older areas of Spanish settlement, Mulattos, Blacks and Mestizos, all who usually became \"gente de razón\". Because of this, in the frontier areas mixed-race people had a greater chance of social mobility, and their descendants often became the elites of the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28916471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28916471", "title": "In an Antique Land", "text": "In an Antique Land\n\nIn An Antique Land is an ethnography written in narrative form by the Indian writer Amitav Ghosh.\n\nThe book contains two narratives. The first, an anthropological narrative, revolves around two visits made by Ghosh to two villages in the Nile Delta, while he was writing his doctoral dissertation (1980–81) and again a few years later (1988). In the second narrative, presented parallel to the first one in the book, Ghosh reconstructs the history of a 12th-century Jewish merchant, Abraham Ben Yiju, and his slaves Ashu and Bomma, using documents from the Cairo Geniza.\n\n\"In an Antique Land\" is considered to be a stylistically curious book. Written after the success of Ghosh's first two books, \"The Circle of Reason\" and \"The Shadow Lines\", and written more than a decade after the dissertation on which the book is based, In an Antique Land defies easy description and has been called \"generically indefinable\" and could be labelled as \"narrative, travel book, autobiographical piece, historical account\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "166929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166929", "title": "Indo-European ablaut", "text": "Indo-European ablaut\n\nIn linguistics, the Indo-European ablaut (pronounced ) is a system of apophony (regular vowel variations) in the Proto-Indo-European language. All modern Indo-European languages have inherited the feature, though its prevalence and productivity strongly varies.\n\nAn example of ablaut in English is the strong verb \"sing, sang, sung\" and its related noun \"song\", a paradigm inherited directly from the Proto-Indo-European stage of the language.\n\nThe term \"ablaut\" (from German \"ab-\" in the sense \"down, reducing, gradated\" + \"Laut\" \"sound\", thus literally meaning \"sound gradation\") was coined in the early nineteenth century by linguist Jacob Grimm. However, the phenomenon of the Indo-European ablaut itself was first recorded more than 2000 years earlier by the Sanskrit grammarians and was codified by Pāṇini in his Ashtadhyayi, where the terms \"\" and \"\" were used to describe the phenomena now known respectively as the \"full grade\" and \"lengthened grade\".\n\nIn the context of European languages, the phenomenon was first described in the early 18th century by the Dutch linguist Lambert ten Kate, in his book \"Gemeenschap tussen de Gottische spraeke en de Nederduytsche\" (\"Commonality between the Gothic language and Low German [Dutch]\", 1710).\n\nSince ablaut was a regular system in Proto-Indo-European (PIE) but survives only as irregular or partially regular variations in the recorded languages, any explanation of ablaut has to begin with an overview of PIE.\n\nProto-Indo-European (PIE) is the hypothetical parent language from which most of the modern and ancient European languages evolved. By comparing the recorded forms from PIE's daughter languages, linguists can infer the forms of the parent language. However, it is not possible to be certain how the reconstructed forms were pronounced, and the reconstructions are to be understood as an encoding of the deduced phonemes, rather than a reliable indication of the actual pronunciations.\n\nEstablished convention marks all PIE forms with an asterisk to indicate that they are hypothetical. For more details on these reconstructions, see Proto-Indo-European language, Laryngeal theory and Comparative method.\n\nVowel gradation is any vowel difference between two related words (such as \"photograph\" [ˈfəʊtəgrɑːf] and \"photography\" [fəˈtɒgrəfi]) or two forms of the same word (such as \"man\" and \"men\"). The difference need not be indicated in the spelling. There are many kinds of vowel gradation in English and other languages, which are discussed generally in the article apophony. Some involve a variation in vowel length, others in vowel coloring (qualitative gradation: \"man\"/\"men\") and others the complete disappearance of a vowel (reduction to zero: \"could not\" → \"couldn't\").\n\nFor the study of European languages, one of the most important instances of vowel gradation is the Indo-European ablaut, remnants of which can be seen in the English verbs \"ride\", \"rode\", \"ridden\", or \"fly, \"flew, \"flown\". For simply learning English grammar, it is enough to note that these verbs are irregular, but understanding why they have unusual forms that seem irregular (and indeed why they are actually perfectly regular within their own terms) requires an understanding of the grammar of the reconstructed proto-language, where they were regular.\n\nAblaut is the oldest and most extensive single source of vowel gradation in the Indo-European languages and must be distinguished clearly from other forms of gradation, which developed later, such as Germanic umlaut (\"man\"/\"men\", \"goose\"/\"geese\", \"long\"/\"length\") or the results of modern English word-stress patterns (\"man\"/\"woman\", \"photograph\"/\"photography\"). Confusingly, in some contexts, the terms 'ablaut', 'vowel gradation', 'apophony' and 'vowel alternation' are used synonymously, especially in synchronic comparisons, but historical linguists prefer to keep 'ablaut' for the specific Indo-European phenomenon, which is the meaning intended by the linguists who first coined the word.\n\nIn Proto-Indo-European, the basic, inherent vowel of most syllables was a short \"e\". \"Ablaut\" is the name of the process whereby this short \"e\" changed, becoming short \"o\", long \"ē\", long \"ō\" or sometimes disappearing entirely to leave no vowel at all.\n\nThus, ablaut turned short \"e\" into the following sounds:\n\nIf a syllable had a short \"e\", it is said to be in the \"e-grade\" or \"full grade\". When it had no vowel, it is said to be in the \"zero grade\". Syllables with long vowels are said to be in \"lengthened grade\". (When the \"e\"-grade or the \"o\"-grade is referred to, the short vowel forms are meant.)\n\nA classic example of the five grades of ablaut in a single root is provided by the different case forms of two closely related Greek words. In the following table, an acute accent (´) marks the syllable carrying the word stress; a macron (¯) marks long vowels and the syllable in bold is the one illustrating the different vowel gradations.\n\nIn this unusually neat example, the following can be seen:\n\nAs with most reconstructions, however, scholars differ about the details of this example.\n\nOne way to think of this system is that Proto-Indo-European originally had only one vowel, short \"e\", and over time, it changed according to phonetic context, so the language started to develop a more complex vowel system. Thus, it has often been speculated that an original e-grade underwent two changes in some phonetic environments: under certain circumstances, it changed to \"o\" (the o-grade) and in others, it disappeared entirely (the zero-grade).\n\nHowever, that is not certain: the phonetic conditions that controlled ablaut have never been determined, and the position of the word stress may not have been a key factor at all. There are many counterexamples to the proposed rules: \"*deywós\" and its nominative plural \"*deywóes\" show pretonic and posttonic e-grade, respectively, and \"*wĺ̥kʷos\" has an accented zero grade.\n\nMany examples of lengthened grades, including those listed above, are not directly conditioned by ablaut. Instead, they are a result of sound changes like Szemerényi's law and Stang's law, which caused compensatory lengthening of originally-short vowels. In the examples above, Szemerényi's law affected the older sequences *ph-tér-s and *n̥-péh-tor-s, changing them to *ph-tḗr and *n̥-péh-tōr. Thus, these forms were originally in the regular, unlengthened e-grade and o-grade. Such lengthened vowels were, however, later grammaticalised and spread to other words in which the change did not occur.\n\nNevertheless, there are examples of true lengthened grades, in which short \"e\" alternates with long \"ē\". Examples are the verbs with \"Narten\" inflection, and nouns like \"*mḗh₁-n̥s\" \"moon\", genitive \"*méh₁-n̥s-os\". Alternations of this type were rare, however, and the \"e\" ~ \"o\" ~ \"∅\" alternation was the most common by far. The long \"ō\" grade was rarer still and may not have actually been a part of the ablaut system at all.\n\nThe zero grade of \"ablaut\" may appear difficult for speakers of English. However, there are several languages who show fricatives and even plosives in syllable nuclei. In the case of *phtrés, which may already have been pronounced something like , it is not difficult to imagine it as a contraction of an older *phterés, pronounced perhaps , as this combination of consonants and vowels would be possible in English as well. In other cases, however, the absence of a vowel strikes the speaker of a modern western European language as unpronounceable.\n\nTo understand, one must be aware that there were a number of sounds that were consonants in principle but could operate in ways analogous to vowels: the four syllabic sonorants, the three laryngeals and the two semi-vowels:\n\n\nWhen \"u\" and \"i\" came in postvocalic positions, the result was a diphthong. Ablaut is nevertheless regular and looks like this:\n\nThus, any of these could replace the ablaut vowel when it was reduced to the zero-grade: the pattern CVrC (for example, \"*bʰergʰ-\") could become CrC (\"*bʰr̥gʰ-\").\n\nHowever, not every PIE syllable was capable of forming a zero grade; some consonant structures inhibited it in particular cases, or completely. Thus, for example, although the preterite plural of a Germanic strong verb (see below) is derived from the zero grade, classes 4 and 5 have instead vowels representing the lengthened e-grade, as the stems of these verbs could not have sustained a zero grade in this position.\n\nZero grade is said to be from pre-PIE syncope in unaccented syllables, but in some cases the lack of accent does not cause zero grade: \"*deywó-\", nominative plural \"*-es\" \"god\". There does not seem to be a rule governing the unaccented syllables that take zero grade and the ones that take stronger grades.\n\nNowadays a few Indo-Europeanists reject the syncope hypothesis, and instead understand early PIE as a polysynthetic and templatic type language with discontinuous consonant roots and vowel transfixes.\n\nIt is still a matter of debate whether PIE had an original a-vowel at all. In later PIE, the disappearance of the laryngeal h could leave an a-colouring and this may explain all occurrences of \"a\" in later PIE. However, some argue controversially that the e-grade could sometimes be replaced by an a-grade without the influence of a laryngeal, which might help to explain the vowels in class 6 Germanic verbs, for example.\n\nAlthough PIE had only this one, basically regular, ablaut sequence, the development in the daughter languages is frequently far more complicated, and few reflect the original system as neatly as Greek. Various factors, such as vowel harmony, assimilation with nasals, or the effect of the presence of laryngeals in the Indo-European (IE) roots as well as their subsequent loss in most daughter languages, mean that a language may have several different vowels representing a single vowel in the parent language.\n\nIn particular, the zero grade was often subject to modification from changes in the pronunciation of syllabic sonorants. For example, in Germanic, syllabic sonorants acquired an epenthetic \"-u-\", thus converting the original zero grade to a new \"u-grade\" in many words. Thus, while ablaut survives in some form in all Indo-European languages, it became progressively less systematic over time.\n\nAblaut explains vowel differences between related words of the same language. For example:\nAblaut also explains vowel differences between cognates in different languages.\n\n\nFor the English-speaking non-specialist, a good reference work for quick information on IE roots, including the difference of \"ablaut\" grade behind related lexemes, is Calvert Watkins, \"The American Heritage Dictionary of Indo-European Roots\", 2nd edition, Boston & New York 2000.\n\nIn PIE, there were already ablaut differences within the paradigms of verbs and nouns. These were not the main markers of grammatical form, since the inflection system served this purpose, but they must have been significant secondary markers.\n\nAn example of ablaut in the paradigm of the noun in PIE can be found in \"*pértus\", from which the English words \"ford\" and (via Latin) \"port\" are derived (both via the zero-grade stem \"*pr̥t-\").\n\nAn example in a verb is *bʰeydʰ- \"to wait\" (cf. \"bide\").\n\nIn the daughter languages, these came to be important markers of grammatical distinctions. The vowel change in the Germanic strong verb, for example, is the direct descendant of that seen in the Indo-European verb paradigm. Examples in modern English are the following:\n\nIt was in this context of Germanic verbs that \"ablaut\" was first described, and this is still what most people primarily associate with the phenomenon. A fuller description of \"ablaut\" operating in English, German and Dutch verbs and of the historical factors governing these can be found at the article Germanic strong verb.\n\nThe same phenomenon is displayed in the verb tables of Latin, Ancient Greek and Sanskrit. Examples of \"ablaut\" as a grammatical marker in Latin are the vowel changes in the perfect stem of verbs.\n\nAblaut can often explain apparently random irregularities. For example, the verb \"to be\" in Latin has the forms \"est\" (he is) and \"sunt\" (they are). The equivalent forms in German are very similar: \"ist\" and \"sind\". The same forms are present in Slavic languages: \"est\" and \"sut\".\n\nThe difference between singular and plural in these languages is easily explained: the PIE root is \"*hes-\". In the singular, the stem is stressed, so it remains in the e-grade, and it takes the inflection \"-ti\". In the plural, however, the inflection \"-énti\" was stressed, causing the stem to reduce to the zero grade: \"*hes-énti\" → \"*hs-énti\". See main article: Indo-European copula.\n\nSome of the morphological functions of the various grades are as follows:\n\ne-grade:\n\no-grade:\n\nzero-grade:\n\nlengthened grade:\n\nMany examples of lengthened-grade roots in the daughter languages are actually caused by the effect of laryngeals and of Szemerényi's law and Stang's law, which operated within Indo-European times.\n\n"}
{"id": "47545444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47545444", "title": "InterWorld (series)", "text": "InterWorld (series)\n\nInterWorld is a trilogy of fantasy and science fiction novels written by Neil Gaiman, Michael Reaves and later Mallory Reaves. The books are published by EOS and HarperTeen, imprints of HarperCollins Publishers.\n\nJoey Harker was a very average kid who discovered that his world was only one of an infinite alternate earths. Some of these earths were ruled by magic. Some were ruled by science. All were at war.\nJoey teams up with alternate versions of himself from an array of these worlds. Together, the army of Joeys battled evil magicians Lord Dogknife and Lady Indigo from HEX and 01101 from Binary to keep the balance of power between all the earths stable.\n\nIn this novel, Joey continues to struggle to find his place within the InterWorld organization, as he is still blamed for the death of a popular team member. As the team begins to lose more and more ground to Hex and Binary, Joey encounters a mysterious young woman named Acacia Jones, whose powers to jump between dimensions seem to rival or even exceed his own—and who may not be working for the same ends that he is.\n\nIn his final adventure, Joey Harker is forced to be a leader as he had to step up to face the ultimate enemy who was the mastermind behind HEX and Binary if he has any hope of saving InterWorld, the multiverse, and everything in between.\n\nThe novels are set in the \"Altiverse\", a 'portion' in the multiverse composed of a trillion alternate Earths. Whenever consciousness, not to be mixed with ego, has to make an important decision, the universe branches off in two directions.\n\nThe Altiverse is conceptualized as an arc. At one end science reigns, while at the other magic reigns. Our reality lies near the center a bit to the science side. The Altiverse has 3 factions fighting an eternal war. Science's region is mostly dominated by Binary ('01101'b). HEX is the magical cabal that controls the Magical regions. And InterWorld is a little guerrilla-like organization that fights to keep the other two groups in balance.\n\nBesides parallel worlds the Altiverse has bizarre zones named \"Nowhere-at-all\", \"Static\" and \"In-Between\". They serve as the inter-plane bridge. The \"Nowhere-at-all\" is filled with Magic, while the \"Static\" has Science. Traveling from world to world takes weeks or days, except through the \"In-Between\". However, only Walkers can go there. The In-Between is also the place where strange multidimensional beings dwell. In any case, these zones aren't really understood.\n\nWalkers are special people with that possesses the gift of \"walk\" through realities. So far, the only known Walkers are Joseph Harker and all of his alternate counterparts.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe idea of \"InterWorld\" surged on 1995, when Reeves was developing an animated series for DreamWorks while Gaiman was in London, working in the television series \"Neverwhere\". Originally being an idea for a possible television series, \"InterWorld\" ended up being a novel that was not shown until 2007.\n\nOn June 16, 2007, Neil Gaiman reported in his journal that DreamWorks Animation optioned the book to make it into an animated feature film.\n\nOn June 21, 2016, the previous plans to make \"InterWorld\" a television series have become active once again by Universal Cable Productions, in association with \"Hamilton\" producer Jeffrey Seller and his partner Flody Suarez.\n\n"}
{"id": "6097875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6097875", "title": "Key Stage 2", "text": "Key Stage 2\n\nKey Stage 2 is the legal term for the four years of schooling in maintained schools in England and Wales normally known as Year 3, Year 4, Year 5 and Year 6, when the pupils are aged between 7 and 11 years.\n\nThe term is defined in the Education Act 2002 as the period beginning at the same time as the school year in which the majority of pupils in a class attain the age of eight and ending at the same time as the school year in which the majority of pupils in a class attain the age of eleven.\nThis Key Stage normally covers pupils during junior schools, although in some cases part or all of this stage may fall in a middle, or a through primary school.\n\nThe term is used to define the group of pupils who must follow the relevant programmes of study from the National Curriculum. All pupils in this Key Stage must follow a programme of education in these 12 areas:\n\nSchools must provide Religious Education but *parents can ask for their children to be taken out of the whole lesson or part of it. Optionally at this Key Stage, schools often teach Personal, Social and Health education (PSHE) and/or citizenship.\n\nAt the end of this stage, pupils aged 11 – in Year 6 – are tested as part of the national programme of National Curriculum Tests, colloquially known as SATs. These tests cover English and Mathematics. The tests are externally marked, with results for each school being published in DfE performance tables.\n\nThe term is defined in The Education (Northern Ireland) Order 2006 as \"the period beginning at the same time as the next school year after the end of key stage 1 and ending at the same time as the school year in which the majority of pupils in his class complete three school years in that key stage\". Notably, the foundation stage and Key Stage 1 are defined as lasting for four years in total from the start of compulsory education. The Key Stage 2 is applied differently in Northern Ireland where it refers to pupils in P5, P6 and P7 (pupils aged 8 to 11). This is also the case in Hong Kong.\n\nThe term is used to define the group of pupils who must follow the relevant programmes of study from the National Curriculum. All pupils in this Key Stage must follow a programme of education in the six areas of learning in the curriculum.:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "180868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180868", "title": "Land art", "text": "Land art\n\nLand art, variously known as Earth art, environmental art, and Earthworks, is an art movement that emerged in the 1960s and 1970s, largely associated with Great Britain and the United States, but which included examples from many countries. As a trend \"Land art\" expanded boundaries of art by the materials used and the siting of the works. The materials used were often the materials of the Earth including for instance the soil and rocks and vegetation and water found on-site, and the siting of the works were often distant from population centers. Though sometimes fairly inaccessible, photo documentation was commonly brought back to the urban art gallery.\n\nConcerns of the art movement centered around rejection of the commercialization of art-making and enthusiasm with an emergent ecological movement. The art movement coincided with the popularity of the rejection of urban living and its counterpart, an enthusiasm for that which is rural. Included in these inclinations were spiritual yearnings concerning the planet Earth as home to mankind.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s land art protested \"ruthless commercialization\" of art in America. During this period, exponents of land art rejected the museum or gallery as the setting of artistic activity and developed monumental landscape projects which were beyond the reach of traditional transportable sculpture and the commercial art market, although photographic documentation was often presented in normal gallery spaces. Land art was inspired by minimal art and conceptual art but also by modern movements such as De Stijl, Cubism, minimalism and the work of Constantin Brâncuși and Joseph Beuys. Many of the artists associated with land art had been involved with minimal art and conceptual art. Isamu Noguchi's 1941 design for \"Contoured Playground\" in New York is sometimes interpreted as an important early piece of land art even though the artist himself never called his work \"land art\" but simply \"sculpture\". His influence on contemporary land art, landscape architecture and environmental sculpture is evident in many works today.\n\nAlan Sonfist used an alternative approach to working with nature and culture by bringing historical nature and sustainable art back into New York City. His most inspirational work is \"Time Landscape\", an indigenous forest he planted in New York City. He also created several other \"Time Landscapes\" around the world such as \"Circles of Time\" in Florence Italy documenting the historical usage of the land, and recently at the deCordova Sculpture Park and Museum outside Boston. According to critic Barbara Rose, writing in \"Artforum\" in 1969, he had become disillusioned with the commodification and insularity of gallery bound art. In 1967, the art critic Grace Glueck writing in the \"New York Times\" declared the first earthwork was done by Douglas Leichter and Richard Saba at the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture. The sudden appearance of land art in 1968 can be located as a response by a generation of artists mostly in their late twenties to the heightened political activism of the year and the emerging environmental and women's liberation movements.\n\nOne example of land art in the 20th century was a group exhibition created in 1968 at the Dwan Gallery in New York. In February 1969, Willoughby Sharp curated the \"Earth Art\" exhibition at the Andrew Dickson White Museum of Art at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. The artists included were Walter De Maria, Jan Dibbets, Hans Haacke, Michael Heizer, Neil Jenney, Richard Long, David Medalla, Robert Morris, Dennis Oppenheim, Robert Smithson, and Gunther Uecker. The exhibition was directed by Thomas W. Leavitt. Gordon Matta-Clark, who lived in Ithaca at the time, was invited by Sharp to help the artists in \"Earth Art\" with the on-site execution of their works for the exhibition.\n\nPerhaps the best known artist who worked in this genre was the American Robert Smithson whose 1968 essay \"The Sedimentation of the Mind: Earth Projects\" provided a critical framework for the movement as a reaction to the disengagement of Modernism from social issues as represented by the critic Clement Greenberg. His best known piece, and probably the most famous piece of all land art, is the \"Spiral Jetty\" (1970), for which Smithson arranged rock, earth and algae so as to form a long (1500 ft) spiral-shape jetty protruding into Great Salt Lake in northern Utah, U.S.. How much of the work, if any, is visible is dependent on the fluctuating water levels. Since its creation, the work has been completely covered, and then uncovered again, by water. A steward of the artwork in conjunction with the Dia Foundation, the Utah Museum of Fine Arts regularly curates programming around the Spiral Jetty, including a \"Family Backpacks\" program. Smithson's \"Gravel Mirror with Cracks and Dust\" (1968) is an example of land art existing in a gallery space rather than in the natural environment. It consists of a pile of gravel by the side of a partially mirrored gallery wall. In its simplicity of form and concentration on the materials themselves, this and other pieces of land art have an affinity with minimalism. There is also a relationship to Arte Povera in the use of materials traditionally considered \"unartistic\" or \"worthless\". The Italian Germano Celant, founder of Arte Povera, was one of the first curator to promote Land Art.\n\n'Land Artists' have tended to be American, with other prominent artists in this field including, Carl Andre, Alice Aycock, Walter De Maria, Hans Haacke, Michael Heizer, Nancy Holt, Ana Mendieta, Dennis Oppenheim, Andrew Rogers, Charles Ross, Alan Sonfist, and James Turrell. Turrell began work in 1972 on possibly the largest piece of land art thus far, reshaping the earth surrounding the extinct Roden Crater volcano in Arizona. Perhaps the most prominent non-American land artists are the British Chris Drury, Andy Goldsworthy, Richard Long and the Australian Andrew Rogers.\nIn 1973 Jacek Tylicki begins to lay out blank canvases or paper sheets in the natural environment for the nature to create art.\n\nSome projects by the artists Christo and Jeanne-Claude (who are famous for wrapping monuments, buildings and landscapes in fabric) have also been considered land art by some, though the artists themselves consider this incorrect. Joseph Beuys' concept of 'social sculpture' influenced 'Land art' and his '7000 Eichen' project of 1982 to plant 7000 Oak trees has many similarities to 'Land art' processes. Rogers' “Rhythms of Life” project is the largest contemporary land-art undertaking in the world, forming a chain of stone sculptures, or geoglyphs, around the globe – 12 sites – in disparate exotic locations (from below sea level and up to altitudes of 4,300 m/14,107 ft). Up to three geoglyphs (ranging in size up to 40,000 sq m/430,560 sq ft) are located in each site.\n\nEduardo Sanguinetti, the Latino-American philosopher and land-artist, presented in 1979 his \"Sculptures in Earth\". They were placed in natural spaces, they became functional as plants and animals made their homes in that particular topos installed in the La Pampa desert. Later, they acquired the noise of codes capable of classifying smells and colours, and will complete the original idea of our artist, who was at that time absorbed by the countryside and its specular radiation...in his Land-Art Performance \"Solum\" (1987), in the zoomorphy of that horse that greatly seduce the audience of the Centro Cultural Recoleta (ex Centro Cultural Ciudad de Buenos Aires). \"Amarillo Total\" the name of the horse, not only stopped the ecologic blow but also paraded the models who had been completely painted by our artist, their naked painted bodies put another body to painting, with artesan colours prepared with earth and plants pigments.\nIn Sanguinetti's Essay \"Alter Ego\" (1986), he said: \"Spontaneous Activity in Nature...In nature, there is a type of spontaneous activity. This concept does not exist in cultured man, and if it does remain in children, it is like a faint reminiscence of the primitive mind...Consequently I think that the survival of an awareness of the supernatural in nature, should, in all works of Land-Art, be the thing which \"animates Everything\".\n\nLand artists in America relied mostly on wealthy patrons and private foundations to fund their often costly projects. With the sudden economic down turn of the mid-1970s funds from these sources largely stopped. With the death of Robert Smithson in a plane crash in 1973 the movement lost one of its most important figureheads and faded out. Charles Ross continues to work on the Star Axis project, which he began in 1971. Michael Heizer continues his work on City, and James Turrell continues to work on the Roden Crater project. In most respects, \"land art\" has become part of mainstream public art and in many cases the term \"land art\" is misused to label any kind of art in nature even though conceptually not related to the avant-garde works by the pioneers of land art.\n\nThe Earth art of the 1960s were sometimes reminiscent the much older land works, Stonehenge, the Pyramids, Native American mounds, the Nazca Lines in Peru, Carnac stones and Native American burial grounds, and often evoked the spirituality of such archeological sites.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13572244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13572244", "title": "List of celebrity-branded perfumes", "text": "List of celebrity-branded perfumes\n\nIn recent years, celebrities have signed contracts with perfume houses to associate their name with a signature scent, as a self-promotion campaign. The scents are then marketed; the association with the celebrity's name usually being the selling point of the campaign. Such products generally do not have the longevity of classic perfumes. A notable exception is \"Curious\", endorsed by Britney Spears and made and marketed by Elizabeth Arden. It was released in 2004 and has gone on to sell over 500 million bottles worldwide, \"Fantasy\" also being endorsed by Spears has had various remakes and have all sold substantial amounts internationally. Most notable would be \"White Diamonds\", endorsed by Elizabeth Taylor and made and marketed by Elizabeth Arden. It was still the best-selling celebrity-endorsed perfume 20 years after its introduction in 1991.\n"}
{"id": "3981713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3981713", "title": "List of free-software events", "text": "List of free-software events\n\nThe following is a list of computer conferences and other events focused on the development and usage of free and open-source software (FOSS).\n\nSome events with \"Linux\" in their name are in fact general-purpose free-software events, often because they began as Linux-only events before broadening their focus.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "310660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310660", "title": "Logan's Run", "text": "Logan's Run\n\nLogan's Run is a novel by William F. Nolan and George Clayton Johnson. Published in 1967, the novel depicts a dystopic ageist future society in which both population and the consumption of resources are maintained in equilibrium by requiring the death of everyone reaching the age of 21. The story follows the actions of Logan, a \"Sandman\" charged with enforcing the rule, as he tracks down and kills citizens who \"run\" from society's lethal demand—only to end up \"running\" himself.\n\nThe introduction to the book states:\n\nIn the world of 2116, a person's maximum age is strictly legislated: 21 years, to the day. When people reach this \"Lastday\" they report to a \"Sleepshop\" in which they are willingly executed via a pleasure-inducing toxic gas. A person's age is revealed by their \"palm flower\" crystal embedded in the palm of their right hand that changes color every seven years, yellow (age 0–6), then blue (age 7–13), then red (age 14–20), then blinks red and black on Lastday, and finally turns black at 21.\n\n\"Runners\" are those who refuse to report to a Sleepshop and attempt to avoid their fate by escaping to Sanctuary. Logan 3 is a \"Deep Sleep Operative\" (also called \"Sandman\") whose job is to terminate Runners using a special weapon called simply, the 'gun', a handgun with selectable ordnance keyed to self-destruct if touched by an individual who is not the proper owner.\n\nRunners are most terrified of a weapon called the 'Homer', which homes in on body heat, and deliberately ignites every pain nerve in the body, killing the target.\n\nSandmen practice Omnite, a hybrid type of martial arts. On his own Lastday, Logan becomes a Runner himself, in an attempt to infiltrate an apparent underground railroad for runners seeking Sanctuary—a place where they can live freely in defiance of society's dictates.\n\nFor most of the book, Logan is an antihero; however, his character develops a sympathy towards Runners, and he becomes more of a traditional hero figure.\n\nJessica 6, a contact Logan made after he chased her Runner brother, Doyle 10, into Cathedral, where he was killed by the vicious preteen \"Cubs\", helps him, despite her initial distrust of him.\n\nFrancis, another Sandman, and friend of Logan, catches up with Logan and Jessica after they've managed to make it to the final staging area before Sanctuary. He reveals he is actually the legendary Ballard, who's been helping arrange their escape. Francis tells them he is actually 42, but due to his faulty palm flower, which does not change colour and by use of plastic surgery shops, he has been able to disguise his true age and appearance. He is working from within the system, as he believes the computer controlling the global infrastructure, buried beneath Crazy Horse Mountain, is beginning to malfunction, and the society will die with it.\n\nSanctuary turns out to be Argos, a previously abandoned space colony near Mars.\n\nLogan and Jessica escape to the colony on a rocket, which departs from a former space program launch site in Florida, as Ballard remains to help others escape.\n\nNolan wrote two sequels, \"Logan's World\" and \"Logan's Search\", published after the film's release. There is also a novelette, \"Logan's Return\", that has been published as an e-book. Two other novels, \"Logan's Journey\" (written with Paul McComas) and \"Logan Falls\" (written with Jason V Brock), have been written, but not published.\n\n\"Logan's World\" deals with events following Logan's returning to Earth, amidst the survivors and ruins of the system he escaped in the first novel, while \"Logan's Search\" deals with Logan going to an alternate reality (with the assistance of aliens) to once again stop the government system he escaped in the first novel, albeit with some minor changes.\n\nGeorge Clayton Johnson's long rumored personal sequel to \"Logan's Run\" titled \"Jessica's Run: A New Sequel for the Logan's Run Universe\" was said be \"in development\".\nIt was still in development at the time of George Clayton Johnson's death on Christmas day 2015.\n\nDavid Pringle gave \"Logan's Run\" two stars out of four and praised the novel as \"a good SF thriller\"; he also stated it was superior to the film version.\n\nThe novel was adapted in 1976 as a film, directed by Michael Anderson and starring Michael York as Logan 5 (not 3), Jenny Agutter as Jessica 6, and Richard Jordan as Francis 7. The film was produced by Saul David, a former MGM Executive and well-known science fiction supporter (having produced and developed \"Fantastic Voyage\" in 1966 at Fox, and developed \"Westworld\" at MGM). The film only uses the basic premise from the novel (everyone must die at a specific age, Logan runs with Jessica as his companion while being chased by Francis).\n\nThe film's world is a post apocalyptic, dystopian one, in which people now live inside a huge domed city and are unaware of the world outside, believing it to be a barren, poisonous environment. The motivations of the characters are also quite different; in the film, the age of death is 30, and instead of reporting to a Sleepshop, citizens must take part in a ritual called in which they are incinerated with the chance of being \"renewed\". Logan is a 26-year-old Sandman, sent by the computer to find and destroy Sanctuary. The computer alters his palm flower (here called a \"life clock\") to show him as approaching Lastday, and he becomes a runner and escapes from the city.\n\nSanctuary turns out not to exist (it is revealed that Runners have actually been murdered by a malfunctioning food processing robot just outside the city), and the only other person that Logan and Jessica encounter outside the city is an old man (Peter Ustinov) who lives with a large number of cats in the Senate Chamber of the largely intact ruins of Washington, DC. Logan kills Francis, who is simply a Sandman in the movie and not a rebel leader, and leads the old man back to just outside the domed city, returning to try to lead a revolt against the culling. No one believes or listens to him or Jessica, and instead he is captured by Sandmen. In his interrogation by the computer, his information of there being no Sanctuary causes the computer to malfunction and self-destruct.\n\nAs the young population leave the confines of the burning and exploding domed city, they meet the old man outside — the first time they have seen anybody of that age.\n\nThough a remake has not been produced as of May 2018, plans and updates regarding a remake have been discussed almost continuously from the mid-1990s until as recently as 2015.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Warner Bros. began development of a remake of the movie. In April 2000, director Skip Woods entered negotiations with the studio and producer Joel Silver to write and direct the remake. The director planned to make it closer to the novel than the original film, restoring elements including Crazy Horse Mountain and sky gypsies. In March 2004, director Bryan Singer was brought in to develop and direct \"Logan's Run\". Singer had begun working with production designer Guy Dyas from his previous film \"X2\". Screenwriters Ethan Gross and Paul Todisco were hired to write the script with the director, with the film being slated for a 2005 release. In October, the director said he had begun previsualization of \"Logan's Run\", which would be completed by the time he finished production of his project at the time, \"Superman Returns\". The following December, screenwriter Dan Harris said that he and the director had turned in a first draft for \"Logan's Run\". Harris said that further development of the project would take place in Sydney after production for \"Superman Returns\", for which he also collaborated, was finalized. The screenwriter said that the remake would contain more action than the original film, describing the premise to be \"a remake of the concept of the movie plus the book\".\n\nIn February 2005, screenwriter Christopher McQuarrie was hired to rewrite the script, with filming to take place in Australia. In February 2006, \"Logan's Run\" was scheduled to begin production in September/October 2006 in Vancouver. The following May, Singer's availability to direct \"Logan's Run\" rendered questionable by scheduling conflicts with filming the sequel to \"Superman Returns\". By May, Singer confirmed that he would not direct \"Logan's Run\", seeking a vacation from the demands of his job. Directors Robert Schwentke and James McTeigue were approached for the project, but neither ultimately signed on.\n\nIn August 2006, production offices for \"Logan's Run\" were taken over by the production for the 2008 box office bomb \"Speed Racer\". In April 2007, producer Joel Silver reiterated his plan to remake the original film. The following July, Silver said that since Singer's departure, no new director had come aboard the project. In August 2007, the project was reinvigorated with Joseph Kosinski hired as the new director and a new script being written by screenwriter Timothy J. Sexton. Kosinski had made a presentation to Warner Bros. including graphic art and animated previsualization that illustrated his plan for the film, whose low budget appealed to the studio. No progress was made, and Kosinski moved on to make \"\" (2010).\n\nIn May and June 2010, Carl Erik Rinsch was hired to direct and screenwriter Alex Garland was hired to write the film. Rinsch ultimately pulled out of the project due to scheduling conflicts. As of August 2011, Danish filmmaker Nicolas Winding Refn was attached to direct the remake starring actor Ryan Gosling and Rose Byrne with screenwriter Andrew Baldwin. In October 2012, Justin Kroll of Variety tweeted that Gosling was no longer attached to the project. As of June 2013, video game developer Ken Levine, creator of the Bioshock series, was confirmed to be attached to write the screenplay. On April 6, 2015, it was revealed from The Tracking Board that the latest concept for the film was based on a female lead.\n\nA television series spin-off from the film, starring Gregory Harrison as Logan 5 and Heather Menzies as Jessica 6, lasted one season of 14 episodes, from September 16, 1977, through January 16, 1978, on U.S. television (CBS-TV). D. C. Fontana served as story editor and employed several other writers from \"\" as well as the original novel's authors. The series pilot was produced by Saul David, who was replaced by CBS with veteran television producers Ivan Goff and Ben Roberts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3207902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3207902", "title": "Martín Fierro Awards", "text": "Martín Fierro Awards\n\nThe Martín Fierro Awards () is the name of the most prominent awards for Argentine radio and television, granted by APTRA, the Association of Argentine Television and Radio Journalists. The awards were first given in 1959, limited to television. The next year, the awards adopted its current name, after José Hernández' epic poem \"Martín Fierro\" (considered by some as the national epic of Argentina). It was embodied on a statuette of a gaucho, by sculptor Luis Perlotti, weighing over . When the award began, the sole television station in the country was Channel 7. As the media outlets grew, the awards expanded to incorporate media from throughout the country. In 1967, radio productions were included in the awards for the first time. Nowaday there is a special rotating venue, honoring the winners from all the Provinces.\n\nBecause of the censorship and persecution of artists carried over during the 1976-83 military dictatorship, the membership of APTRA dwindled and the awards were suspended. It was not until 1988 that the award was revived. Since 1990, it has also included special productions for cable networks and -in 1992- the Golden \"Martín Fierro\" was added to honor the \"best of the best\". In 2004, the voting became computerized to make it both more secure and simpler, as well as allowing voting to take place immediately before broadcasting.\n\nThe first year the awards were given, 1959, the ceremony took place at the Cervantes National Theater and the inductees included:\n\nIn 1991 APTRA created a special award, the Golden Martín Fierro award. It is given to a single person or production in the annual ceremony, and it is intended as a prize to trajectory or to outstanding quality. The first winner was the host show \"Fax\", and the most recent one the TV series \"Farsantes\". A second main prize, the Platinum Martín Fierro Award, was added in 2009, per the 50th anniversary of APTRA. The first winner of it was Mirtha Legrand.\n\n"}
{"id": "40862609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40862609", "title": "Medical Heritage Library", "text": "Medical Heritage Library\n\nThe Medical Heritage Library (MHL) is a digital curation collaborative among several medical libraries which promotes free and open access to quality historical resources in medicine. The MHL is currently digitizing books and journals and is working to expand to the digitization of archival materials and still images. In 2010, the MHL began digitizing titles, mainly monographs, in a variety of medical history and related fields including chemistry, nursing, dentistry, audiology, physiology, psychology, psychiatry, biological science, hydrotherapy, weather, veterinary medicine, gardening, physical culture, and alternative medicine chosen for their scholarly, educational, and research value. Since the inception of the project, materials in audio and video formats have been added to the collection.\n\nThe MHL works to:\n\nThe MHL maintains a blog, Twitter account, and Facebook page to interact with researchers, librarians, archivists, students, and the interested general public about the MHL collections, the history of medicine, digital humanities, and related topics.\n\nThe MHL began digitization of monographs in 2010 with an initial grant from the Sloan Foundation. Work on the MHL project has continued with funding support from collaborating institutions, the National Endowment for the Humanities (announcement), and the Mellon Foundation via a program administered by the Council on Library and Information Resources (announcement). All digitized works are located at the Internet Archive.\n\nThe collection includes books, pamphlets, journals, and video and audio recordings in the history of medicine and related fields. A working list of subject headings is available here. Titles have been chosen for their scholarly, educational, and research value. The MHL consults with a volunteer group of scholars in the history of medicine and related fields and surveys its users regularly. As of August 2014, the collection consists of nearly 60,000 items including monographs, journals, audio and video on topics including surgery, public health, infectious diseases, gynecology, psychology, anatomy, neuroscience, tobacco, and homeopathy.\n\nThe MHL has created a full-text search tool for use by researchers. The tool allows users to search the full-text of one or more items simultaneously. The tool is in an extended beta release and comments or questions are welcome!\n\nThe UK Medical Heritage Library started in 2014 with nine digitisation partners in England and Scotland, including [UCL] (University College London), the [University of Leeds], the [University of Glasgow], the [London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine], [King's College London], and the [University of Bristol] - along with the libraries of the [Royal College of Physicians of London], the [Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh], and the [Royal College of Surgeons of England]. The original partnership is between the [Wellcome Library] and [Jisc]. Material digitized by the UK MHL project is also available through the MHL portal at the Internet Archive and searchable through the full-text search tool described above.\n\nOriginal members of the collaborative formed in 2010 are:\n\nContent contributors have joined the project regularly since 2011; the MHL continues to seek additional content contributors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32265163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32265163", "title": "My Drunk Kitchen", "text": "My Drunk Kitchen\n\nMy Drunk Kitchen is a cooking show and comedy series of short videos created and posted on YouTube by Hannah \"Harto\" Hart. The series features Hart, a San Franciscan proofreader living in Los Angeles, typically attempting to cook or bake various dishes, or otherwise engaging in some food-related activity, all while imbibing large quantities of alcoholic beverages. Most episodes have their own recipe, and occasionally a corresponding beverage. The series has been praised for its drunk humor, catchphrases, and the use of jump cut editing.\n\nThis season marked the beginning of the series being shot in HD.\nWhile the second season continued featuring her drunk antics, Hannah accompanied \"My Drunk Kitchen\" with a series of videos titled \"Coming Out\".\nTowards the end of the second season, Hannah used Indiegogo to raise $25,000 within a month in order to kick-start her roadshow, \"Hello, Harto!\". She successfully raised $36,000 in four hours and made plans to continue filming \"My Drunk Kitchen\" on the road. While the roadshow featured Hannah's comedy skits, the show was also used to attract viewers to help volunteer in local food operations.\n\nAfter Hannah announced her roadshow, videos were no longer formally organized into seasons.\n\nIn addition to My Drunk Kitchen, Hart has also posted a series of videos, \"Advice from the Hart\", answering viewer questions or requests for advice.\n"}
{"id": "30937568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30937568", "title": "Ntoro", "text": "Ntoro\n\nThe Ntoro is the spiritual-genetic aspect of the father which the Akan people believe is passed on to his children. These 12 Ntoro are considered inherited deities (spirits) who govern guide and protect their 12 clans patrilineally. The Akan believe that the Ntoro does not die with the father. Instead, it is passed down to the man’s children, or if the children are not alive, to his nephews and nieces. The father's Ntoro represents the being of the child until the child comes of age. At this point the Ntoro along with the Sunsum and Kra explains how one interacts in the world. The Ntoro is thus explained by Akans to be the father's characteristics and spiritual traits which can be inherited. Thus, it is the cooperation of the father's Ntoro with the mother's blood (Mogya) Abusua which is believed to form the child and mold into the Human being.\n\n1) Bosompra (The Tough/Strong/firm)\n2) Bosomtwe (The Human/Kind/empathetic)\n3) Bosomakím (The Fanatic)\n4) Bosompo/Bosomnkóteaa (The Brave/proud/courageous) \n5) Bosommuru (The Respectable/distinguished)\n6) Bosomkonsi (The Virtuoso)\n7) Bosomdweróbe (The Eccentric/Jittery)\n8) Bosomayensu (The Truculent)\n9) Bosomsika (The Fastidious)\n10) Bosomkrete (The Chivalrous)\n11) Bosomafram (The Liberal/Kind/empathetic) \n12) Bosomafi (The Chaste)\n\n1. http://pdfproc.lib.msu.edu/?file=/DMC/African%20Journals/pdfs/Institue%20of%20African%20Studies%20Research%20Review/1967v3n3/asrv003003010.pdf \n\n2. http://cec.vcn.bc.ca/rdi/kw-40.htm\n"}
{"id": "52701715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52701715", "title": "Palace lantern", "text": "Palace lantern\n\nA Palace lantern is one of the Han nationality traditional handicrafts, which is special during various Chinese festivals. It was created during the Eastern Han dynasty, blossoming in Sui and Tang dynasties, with strong local characteristics.Palace lantern just as its name imply that it is the lamp which is used in the palace, mainly making from fine wood as the skeleton and decorating with spun silk and glass, and draws sorts of design of coloured drawing or pattern in surface of the lantern. It is famous for its elegant and full of palace style. Clue to the fact that it was used for the palace for a long term, apart from the lighting feature, it also deserve to elaborate adornment, in order to show the wealth and luxury of the emperor. Orthodox palace lantern generally has anise, hexagonal, four corners, the pattern of each face may be \"Dragon and Phoenix Bringing Auspiciousness \", \"live for a long time\", and \"Everything goes well\", etc.\nPalace lantern has been around for thousands of years in China. It become a symbol of traditional Chinese culture. The Palace lantern, as a special arts and crafts of handicraft production in our country, enjoys a high reputation in the world. Up till now, we still can find the adornment of palace lantern in some luxury hall and residence.\nThe palace lantern, hanging on the beam of the hall, is general bigger and embedded tapestry or glass, with the nice effect of adornment. According to legend, after the establishment of the Eastern Han Dynasty to the Han Dynasty emperor Liu Xiu, the capital of Luoyang, in order to celebrate this achievement, the emperor commanded that the palace are compelled to decorate with all kinds og beautiful lantern and hold a big banquets to reward the people who follow him to establish the country. Later, the technology of palace lantern was introduced to the folk. Thus, The name \"palace lantern\" was born. On January 15 of the first year of emperor Suiyangdi, the palace lantern scattered throughout the city, decorating the city half a months. After the sui and tang dynasties, on the Lantern Festival, all the family hung their treasure lamp highly, wherever is light and bright. the custom spread to the whole country and overseas.\nIn Qing dynasty, due to the treasure of the palace lantern,it become the awards which was rewarded by the emperor for the dukes and ministers.\n\n\nGilt Bronze Human-Shaped Lamp, Han Chinese bronzes, unearthed in a tomb of Zhongshan Jing Wang Liusheng's wife Dou Wan in mancheng, Hebei province in 1968. It was displayed in China 2010 Shanghai World Expo. the Lantern is a full-bodied gilt setting maid who were holding the lamps, with an elegance expression. The body height of 48 cm, 15.85 kg. Gilt Bronze Human-Shaped Lamp was designed skillfully. on the on hand, the maid hand the lamp, on the other hand her sleeve seemed to prohibit form the wind. Actually, it is for the tubes to absorb smoke and avoid the air pollution. This Palace lantern got its name, because it has been placed in the long Palace of Dou Taihou (Liu Sheng grandmother). Nowadays, it was collected in the museum of Hebei province.\n\nheight:48 cm, Odalisque:44.5 cm, weight:15.85 kg.\nThe body was golden and it looks splendid and gorgeous. Gilding bronze has appeared in the Warring States period. After the gilding treatment of bronze, its surface will be beautiful, and it also plays a very important role in the protection for the bronze.\n\nThere are nine engraved inscriptions on some parts of the lamp body, a total of 65 words. Around the upper bottom of the lamp holder was engraved with the inscription\"长信尚浴，容一升少半升，重六斤，百八十九，今内者卧\" (some Chinese characters). The handwriting of the inscription is too illegible, it may have been carved later, so the \"长信尚浴\" does not seem to be the first owner of the lamp. The original owner should be first carved, and the handwriting is neatly, so the six parts of the lamp body which was carved with \"阳信家\" illustrated that the lamp is originally belongs to the \"阳信家\".\nThere was \"长信\"(Changxin)on the lamp, used for residence of Dou empress dowager, named \"Changxin Palace lanterns\".\nChangxin Palace lantern changed the style of the old bronze vessels which was mystery, the whole shape and the style of decoration seemed to stretch freely, light and magnificent. It is a practical and beautiful lamp treasures. The maid in the statue is hollow, her right arm and empty sleeves form a copper lamp shade can freely open and close. The burning dust would not disturb to the surrounding environment, it would deposit in the lamp. The concept of environmental protection of the ancient Chinese people's wisdom. the Changxin Palace lantern was known as \"China's first light\". Former U.S. Secretary of state Kissinger made a trip to China to visit Changxin Palace lanterns, and laments: \" Chinese have understood the environmental protection sine 2000 years ago, it is really great.\"\nChangxin Palace lantern has been regarded as an important representative of the pinnacle of national arts and crafts. This is not only because of its rarity, the one and only, but also in its exquisite production process and unique artistic conception. Experts on archaeology and history of metallurgy agree that the exquisite design and production process of the lamp are high level, leading the palace lantern in the Han Dynasty. In 1993 it was identified as a national treasure heritage.\nLuoyang palace lantern is a characteristic of traditional crafts and the common ornament on Lantern Festival, with strong local characteristics. he white square lamp, butterflies lamp, etc. are common. Especially, the red yarn lamp is the most famous. It has beautiful shape, and is easy to paint. Not only can be used for festive ornaments, but also art propaganda.\nLuoyang palace lantern has a long history; it was created in Eastern Han Dynasty, flourishing in the Sui and Tang Dynasties. According to legend, after the establishment of the Eastern Han Dynasty to the Han Dynasty emperor Liu Xiu, the capital of Luoyang, in order to celebrate this achievement, the emperor commanded that the palace are compelled to decorate with all kinds of beautiful lantern and hold a big banquets to reward the people who follow him to establish the country. Later, the technology of palace lantern was introduced to the folk. Thus, The name \"palace lantern\" was born. On January 15 of the first year of emperor Suiyangdi, the palace lantern scattered throughout the city, decorating the city half a months. After the sui and tang dynasties, on the Lantern Festival, all the family hung their treasure lamp highly, wherever is light and bright. The custom spread to the whole country and overseas.The Song Dynasty, Luoyang suffered from wars over and over again, the Lantern Festival gradually lost its presence, but the technology of lantern production has been passed down to now. \n"}
{"id": "31727026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31727026", "title": "Ponding", "text": "Ponding\n\nPonding is the (typically) unwanted pooling of water, typically on a flat roof or roadway. Ponding water accelerates the deterioration of many materials, including seam adhesives in single-ply roof systems, steel equipment supports, and particularly roofing asphalt. On low-slope asphalt roofs, ponding water allows the oil solvent components of the asphalt to leach out and evaporate, leaving the roof membrane brittle and susceptible to cracking and leaking in the ponding location.\n\nMost flat roof systems (properly called \"low-slope roof systems\") are designed with a slight pitch to shed water off the sides, usually into gutters, scuppers, internal drains, or a combination of these. When a scupper or drain is clogged or fails for other reasons, storm water tends to pool around that low area. Over time, with each passing storm, the weight of the storm water will deflect the structural system beyond the structure's bending point, thus allowing a bigger puddle to form. As a bigger puddle forms more weight is applied to the structural system causing more bending, allowing an even bigger puddle, then more weight, until the structure fails.\n\nIn the construction industry, the National Roofing Contractors Association (NRCA) defines roof ponding as \"water that remains on a roof surface longer than 48 hours after the termination of the most recent rain event\".\n\nAccording to the 2009 International Building Code Chapter 15 \"Roof Assemblies and Roof Top Structures\" & Chapter 16 \"Structural Design\"; \n\"When scuppers are used for secondary (emergency overflow) roof drainage, the quantity, size, location and inlet elevation of the scuppers shall be sized to prevent the depth of ponding water from exceeding that for which the roof was designed ... Ponding instability. For roofs with a slope less than 1/4 inch per foot [1.19 degrees (0.0208 rad)], the design calculations shall include verification of adequate stiffness to preclude progressive deflection in accordance with Section 8.4 of ASCE 7.\"\n\nWhen water is diverted into a lower area that has no outlet or is not suitable for drainage, water will begin to pool, and over time the weight of the water will create a deeper pool, allowing more water to sit, eventually creating a permanent water feature. Some municipalities recognize this as an issue on private land, such as the City of Indianapolis.\n\nOther municipalities see this as a great concern, such as the Kapiti Coast District, New Zealand where, \"groundwater ponding is a chronic problem, that results in damp housing and waterlogged sections. The damage that it causes is less apparent than the damaging events associated with floods, but the duration of groundwater ponding, which can last for several months, makes it a serious issue for those affected\".\n\nPonding that forms on paved surfaces, like streets or parking lots that are not properly pitched, will cause issues such as deep puddles and crocodile cracking.\n\n"}
{"id": "47385755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47385755", "title": "Portal Stories: Mel", "text": "Portal Stories: Mel\n\nPortal Stories: Mel is a single-player mod of \"Portal 2\" developed by Prism Studios. The mod was released on June 25, 2015, for Microsoft Windows, OS X and Linux systems, available freely to users who own \"Portal 2\" on Steam.\n\nLike \"Portal 2\", \"Portal Stories: Mel\" is a puzzle-platform game played from the first-person perspective as the player-character Mel. Shortly into the game's story, the player acquires a prototype version of a portal gun, which allows the player to create a connected opening on two different flat surfaces. This allows for accessing out-of-reach areas, passing objects, light, laser beams, and other matter through the portals, and using the portals as a means of \"flinging\" Mel or other objects across a level. These lead the player to various puzzle chambers that are required to be solved in order to access the exit point and proceed forward. The player-character can die by being shot repeatedly by automated turrets, falling into contaminated water, and other similar environmental hazards, but this will simply return the player-character to a previous checkpoint. \"Portal Stories: Mel\" adds a few new features such as water putting out fire, electrified water and a deadly version of the emancipation grill as well as using familiar puzzle elements from previous games in new ways, such as tractor beams, light bridges, and paint gels. There are a total of 22 levels in the game which the developers expect would take players from 6 to 10 hours to complete.\n\nThe mod starts when Mel, an Olympian from the 1936 Summer Olympics (said to have taken place in Nuremberg rather than Berlin), arrives by tram at the Aperture: Science Innovators headquarters in Michigan. She then enters the massive underground complex as a volunteer test subject on October 14, 1952. Aperture's CEO, Cave Johnson, speaks to Mel through prerecorded messages via intercom, informing her that she will take part in one of their smaller tests, the Aperture Innovators Short Term Relaxation Vault.\n\nAfter the test goes wrong and she is put in suspension for decades, Mel is woken up and finds much of the facility in disrepair. She encounters a Cave Johnson impersonator telling her nothing is wrong and that she is still in 1952. Later on, it is revealed that the voice talking to her is a maintenance core named Virgil, who offers to help her escape from the facility if she helps him get back on a management rail he fell off of. After helping her to obtain the portal gun, Virgil guides Mel through the remnants of the old facility, explaining that the destruction of GLaDOS (from the events of \"Portal\") has caused most of the control systems in the facility to falter.\n\nThey continue upwards but learn that due to the reserve power coming on, a prototype security system, AEGIS (Aperture Employee Guardian and Intrusion System), has become active in the absence of GLaDOS and is tracking them through the facility, trying to eliminate them after mistaking them first as unregistered life forms then as potential threats to the long dead scientists. Virgil realizes the only way for Mel to escape is to disable AEGIS.\n\nAfter traveling through some old and overgrown test chambers, the duo eventually arrive at AEGIS's central core. After a battle with the AI, Mel enters the code to shut down AEGIS, but not before finding out that AEGIS was attempting to destroy GLaDOS as well. Virgil leads Mel to the elevator, has her destroy the portal gun, and says his goodbyes as she ascends to the surface. Mel opens a door leading to the outside world to find the same town she walked through decades ago to get to Aperture both modernized and in ruins.\n\nIn a post-credits scene, AEGIS has enough power left to initiate one final fail-safe: waking up the test subject Chell, the main protagonist of the Portal games, by draining the reserve power so she can escape, setting up the events of \"Portal 2\".\n\n\"Portal Stories: Mel\" was developed over the course of four years by a small independent team of fans under the name Prism Studios. Development for the mod started in May 2011, and the mod was originally intended to launch early 2012. After several delays, on March 21, 2013, it was announced that the focus would be changed primarily to quality. At this point, the development team had completely changed.\n\nOn August 4, 2013 the first closed beta for Portal Stories: Mel was announced. As a result of this beta, several maps were re-worked and updated to higher quality standards. The team was also saw the addition of a new Modeller and an extra level designer. On June 20, 2014 the development team announced that they were aiming for a release in the first quarter of 2015, with support for Windows, OS X and Linux systems.\n\nOn July 26, 2014 the mod was put on the Steam Greenlight program, together with a teaser trailer posted on YouTube. On August 1, 2014 the mod advanced through Steam Greenlight. After being successfully green-lit, the developers started posting Development updates at the end of each month, discussing what had been done and what the plan was for the next month. Alongside this, the developers also started a new closed beta, which expanded every month with new players to gather more feedback. In their February Development Update the developers announced that they had to once again postpone the release.\n\nOn June 25, 2015 the mod was released on Steam. Several developer commentary videos were released on YouTube shortly after.\n\nIn response to complaints about the difficulty of the mod, the developers announced that they were working on an optional \"Story Mode\" difficulty, with reduced puzzle difficulty. This mode was released on August 31, 2015 \n\nThe game was generally well received by fans of the series. Both PC Gamer and the Washington Post, among many other media outlets wrote positive reviews for the mod. As of November 8, 2017, the mod has a rating of 95/100 on Steam.\n\n\"Portal Stories: Mel\" won the award for \"Best Fan Creation\" at The Game Awards 2015.\n"}
{"id": "23613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23613", "title": "Postmodern music", "text": "Postmodern music\n\nPostmodern music is either simply music of the postmodern era, or music that follows aesthetical and philosophical trends of postmodernism. As the name suggests, the postmodernist movement formed partly in reaction to modernism. Even so, postmodern music still does not primarily define itself in opposition to modernist music; this label is applied instead by critics and theorists.\n\nPostmodern music is not a distinct musical style, but rather refers to music of the postmodern era. The terms \"postmodern\", \"postmodernism\", \"postmodernist\", and \"postmodernity\" are exasperating terms . Indeed, postmodernists question the tight definitions and categories of academic disciplines, which they regard simply as the remnants of modernity .\n\nPostmodernism in music is not a distinct musical style, but rather refers to music of the postmodern era. Postmodernist music, on the other hand, shares characteristics with postmodernist art—that is, art that comes after and reacts against modernism (see Modernism in Music).\n\nFredric Jameson, a major figure in the thinking on postmodernism and culture, calls postmodernism \"the cultural dominant of the logic of late capitalism\" , meaning that, through globalization, postmodern culture is tied inextricably with capitalism (Mark Fisher, writing 20 years later, goes further, essentially calling it the sole cultural possibility ). Drawing from Jameson and other theorists, David Beard and Kenneth Gloag argue that, in music, postmodernism is not just an attitude but also an inevitability in the current cultural climate of fragmentation . As early as 1938, Theodor Adorno had already identified a trend toward the dissolution of \"a culturally dominant set of values\" , citing the commodification of all genres as beginning of the end of genre or value distinctions in music .\n\nIn some respects, Postmodern music could be categorized as simply the music of the postmodern era, or music that follows aesthetic and philosophical trends of postmodernism, but with Jameson in mind, it is clear these definitions are inadequate. As the name suggests, the postmodernist movement formed partly in reaction to the ideals of modernism, but in fact postmodern music is more to do with functionality and the effect of globalization than it is with a specific reaction, movement, or attitude . In the face of capitalism, Jameson says, \"It is safest to grasp the concept of the postmodern as an attempt to think the present historically in an age that has forgotten how to think historically in the first place\" .\n\nJonathan Kramer posits the idea (following Umberto Eco and Jean-François Lyotard) that postmodernism (including \"musical\" postmodernism) is less a surface style or historical period (i.e., condition) than an \"attitude\". Kramer enumerates 16 (arguably subjective) \"characteristics of postmodern music, by which I mean music that is understood in a postmodern manner, or that calls forth postmodern listening strategies, or that provides postmodern listening experiences, or that exhibits postmodern compositional practices.\" According to , postmodern music:\n\n\nDaniel Albright summarizes the main tendencies of musical postmodernism as :\n\nOne author has suggested that the emergence of postmodern music in popular music occurred in the late 1960s, influenced in part by psychedelic rock and one or more of the later Beatles albums . Beard and Gloag support this position, citing Jameson's theory that \"the radical changes of musical styles and languages throughout the 1960s [are] now seen as a reflection of postmodernism\" (; see also ). Others have placed the beginnings of postmodernism in the arts, with particular reference to music, at around 1930 (; ).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48254824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48254824", "title": "Reflex (building design software)", "text": "Reflex (building design software)\n\nReflex was a 3D building design software application developed in the mid 1980s and - along with its predecessor Sonata - is now regarded as a forerunner to today's building information modelling applications.\n\nThe application was developed by two former GMW Computers employees who had been involved with Sonata. After Sonata had \"disappeared in a mysterious, corporate black hole, somewhere in eastern Canada in 1992,\" Jonathan Ingram and colleague Gerard Gartside then went on to develop Reflex, bought for $30 million by Parametric Technology Corporation (PTC) in July 1996.\n\nPTC had identified the architecture, engineering and construction market as a target for its parametric modelling solutions, and bought Reflex to expand into the sector. However, the fit between Reflex and PTC's existing solutions was poor, and PTC's Pro/Reflex gained little market traction; PTC then sold the product to another US company, Beck Construction, in 1997, where it formed the kernel of a parametric estimating package called DESTINI.\n\nAround the same time, several people from PTC set up a new company, Charles River Software (renamed Revit Technology Corporation in 2000, later (2002) bought by Autodesk). Leonid Raiz and Irwin Jungreis obtained from PTC a non-exclusive, source code development license for Reflex as part of their severance package. In the words of Jerry Laiserin: \"While Autodesk Revit may not contain genomic snippets of Reflex code, Revit clearly is spiritual heir to a lineage of BIM 'begats' — RUCAPS begat Sonata, Sonata begat Reflex, and Reflex begat Revit.\"\n\nIn a 2017 letter to \"AEC Magazine,\" Jungreis said:\n"}
{"id": "4445491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4445491", "title": "Serbianisation", "text": "Serbianisation\n\nSerbianisation or Serbianization, also known as Serbification, and Serbisation or Serbization (\"/srbizacija\" or посрбљавање\"/posrbljavanje\"; , \"sərbizacija\" or посръбчване, \"posrəbčvane\"; ) is the spread of Serbian culture, people, or politics, either by integration or assimilation.\n\nThe region of present-day Republic of Macedonia until 1912 was part of the Ottoman Empire. According to Encyclopædia Britannica 1911 Edition, at the beginning of the 20th century the Slavs constituted the majority of the population in Macedonia. Per Britannica itself the bulk of the Slavs there was regarded by almost all independent sources as \"Bulgarians\". Immediately after annexation of Vardar Macedonia to the Kingdom of Serbia, the Macedonian Slavs were faced with the policy of forced serbianisation.\n\nThose who declare as the Bulgarians were, harassed or deported to Bulgaria. The high clergymen of Bulgarian Orthodox Church were also deported. Bulgarian schools were closed and teachers expelled. The population of Macedonia was forced to declare as Serbs. Those who refused were beaten and tortured. Prominent people and teachers from Skopje who refused to declare as Serbs were deported to Bulgaria. International Commission concluded that the Serbian state started in Macedonia wide sociological experiment of \"assimilation through terror.\" All Bulgarian books gave way to Serbian. The government Serbianized personal names and surnames for all official uses.\nDuring the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, the government of the Kingdom pursued a linguistic Serbisation policy towards population of the Macedonia, then called \"Southern Serbia\" (unofficially) or \"Vardar Banovina\" (officially). The dialects spoken in this region were referred to as dialects of Serbo-Croatian.\nEither way, those southern dialects were suppressed with regards education, military and other national activities, and their usage was punishable. \n\nThe Kingdom, was also interested to change the ethnic composition of the population in Vardar Macedonia. In 1919 there were announced the orders for preparing for colonization of Southern Serbia. The Serbian colonization was maintained through \"agricultural\" and \"administrative\" actions. In the Interbellum, the Kingdom has settled 3,670 families (18,384 persons). The colonists were given properties. Also, in the same time almost all clerks in the area were Serbs. This means that in the period between the two World wars the Kingdom succeeded through the agricultural and the administrative colonizations to create significant Serbian ethnic minority in Vardar Macedonia. As a counteraction the paramilitary IMRO began sending armed bands into Yugoslav Macedonia to assassinate officials and stir up the spirit of the locals. After 1923 the IMRO had \"de facto\" full control of Bulgarian Macedonia and acted as a \"state within a state\". It used Bulgaria as a base for terrorist attacks against Yugoslavia with the unofficial agreement of the right-wing governments. Because of this, contemporary observers described the Yugoslav-Bulgarian border as the most fortified in Europe. In 1930s a more homogeneous generation was growing up in Vardar Macedonia, which resisted Serbianisation and increasingly identified itself as \"Macedonian\", but which also made it clear that Bulgarian idea was no more the only option for them. \n\nAfter WWII Marshal Tito formed out SR Macedonia of a part of 1929–1941 Vardar Banovina, and encouraged the development of Macedonian identity and Macedonian as a separate South Slavic language. The Macedonian national feelings were already ripe, but some researchers argue that even then, it was questionable whether the Macedonian Slavs considered themselves to be a nationality separate from the Bulgarians. However persons declaring Bulgarian identity were again imprisoned or went into exile, and in this way Vardar Macedonia was finally de-Bulgarised.\nToday some researchers have described the process of codifying the Macedonian language during 1945 - 1950 as 'Serbianization'. Within the period of Macedonian language codification two tendencies emerged: one language majority, that was pro-Macedonian, with some pro-Bulgarian biases, and one language minority openly pro-Serbian. The language minority, with the help of the Yugoslav political establishment defeated the language majority. The irreversible turning point of Serbianisation of the Macedonian standard took place in the late 1950s. On the other hand during the time of federation in Socialist Yugoslavia, Yugoslav citizens learned Serbo-Croatian at school. This bilingualism was stimulated by the subordinated pro-Serbian elites in Yugoslav Macedonia. In this way the influence of Serbo-Croatian arrose so much, that the colloquial speech of the capital Skopje has been described as a \"creolized form of Serbian\".\n\nAfter Republic of Macedonia gained independence in 1991 this process still continues. In 2015 the former prime minister and leader of the VMRO-NP, Ljubco Georgievski has claimed in an interview to Radio Free Europe that then Macedonian authorities have a clear goal, to keep the country closer to Serbia, and at some future stage to join the northern neighbor. According to him a classical pro-Yugoslav policy has being conducted, where confrontation with all the other neighbors was taking place, but the border between Macedonian and Serbian national identity has been erased. \"Stop the Serbian assimilation of the Macedonian nation\" was the motto of the billboards that were placed then on Skopje streets, through which the Party launched a campaign for preserving the Macedonian national identity.\n\nVoluntarily Serbianisation has been attributed to Romanians and Vlachs, since the 19th century.\n\nThe Hungarian minority in north Serbia (Vojvodina) has also been affected by Serbianisation since the aftermath of World War II.\n\nSerbs in the Roman Catholic Croatian Military Frontier were out of the jurisdiction of the Serbian Patriarchate of Peć and in 1611, after demands from the community, the Pope establishes the Eparchy of Marča (\"Vratanija\") with seat at the Serbian-built Marča Monastery and instates a Byzantine Rite vicar bishop as sub-ordinate to the Roman Catholic bishop of Zagreb, working to bring Serbian Orthodox Christians into communion with Rome which caused struggle of power between the Catholics and the Serbs over the region. In 1695 Serbian Orthodox Eparchy of \"Lika-Krbava and Zrinopolje\" is established by metropolitan Atanasije Ljubojevic and certified by Emperor Josef I in 1707. In 1735 the Serbian Orthodox protested in the Marča Monastery and it became a part of the Serbian Orthodox Church until 1753 when the Pope restored the Roman Catholic clergy at it. On June 17, 1777 the Eparchy of Križevci is permanently established by Pope Pius VI with see at Križevci, near Zagreb, thus forming the Croatian Greek Catholic Church which would after the World War I include other people; Rusyns and Ukrainians of Yugoslavia.\n\nThe term \"Arnauti\" or \"Arnautaši\" was coined by Serbian ethnographers for allegedly \"Albanized Serbs\"; Serbs who were thought to have converted to Islam and supposedly went through a process of Albanisation.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, writer Branislav Nušić recorded that the Serb \"poturice\" (converts to Islam) of Orahovac began speaking in Albanian and marrying Albanian women.\n\nWhen Dr Jovan Hadži Vasiljević (l. 1866–1948) visited Orahovac in World War I, he could not distinguish Orthodox from Islamicized and Albanized Serbs. They spoke Serbian, wore the same costumes, but claimed Serbian, Albanian or Turk ethnicity. The Albanian \"starosedeoci\" (old urban families) were Slavophone; they did not speak Albanian but a Slavic dialect (naš govor, \"Our language\") at home.\n\nIn the 1921 census the majority of Muslim Albanians of Orahovac were registered under the category \"Serbs and Croats\". This is contrary to the belief that Islamisation led to Albanisation. This suggests that claims of Islamisation has led to Albanisation of Serbs are difficult to prove. Also, there has been a continuous and considerable presence of a Slavic Muslim population in Kosovo.\n\nMark Krasniqi, the Kosovo Albanian ethnographer, recalled in 1957: \"During my own research, some of them told me that their tongue is similar to Macedonian rather than Serbian (it is clear that they want to dissociate themselves from everything Serbian). It is likely they are the last remnants of what is now known in Serbian sources as 'Arnautaši', Islamicised and half-way Albanianised Slavs.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2433249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2433249", "title": "Shotgun house", "text": "Shotgun house\n\nA \"shotgun house\" is a narrow rectangular domestic residence, usually no more than about 12 feet (3.5 m) wide, with rooms arranged one behind the other and doors at each end of the house. It was the most popular style of house in the Southern United States from the end of the American Civil War (1861–65) through the 1920s. Alternate names include \"shotgun shack\", \"shotgun hut\", \"shotgun cottage\", and in the case of a multihome dwelling, \"shotgun apartment\"; the design is similar to that of railroad apartments.\n\nA longstanding theory is that the style can be traced from Africa to Haitian influences on house design in New Orleans, but the houses can be found as far away as Chicago, Key West, Florida, Ybor City, Tampa, and Texas. Though initially as popular with the middle class as with the poor, the shotgun house became a symbol of poverty in the mid-20th century. Urban renewal has led to the destruction of many shotgun houses; however, in areas affected by gentrification, historic preservation efforts have led to the renovation of such houses.\n\nSeveral variations of shotgun houses allow for additional features and space, and many have been updated to the needs of later generations of owners. The oldest shotgun houses were built without indoor plumbing, but this was often added later, often on the back of the house (sometimes crudely). \"Double-barrel\" or \"double\" shotgun houses consist of two houses sharing a central wall, allowing more houses to be fit into an area. \"Camelback\" shotgun houses include a second floor at the rear of the house. In some cases the entire floor plan is changed during remodeling to create hallways.\n\nThe origins of both the term and the architectural form and development of the shotgun house are controversial, even more so in the wake of conflicting preservation and redevelopment efforts since Hurricane Katrina.\n\nNew Orleans architectural historian Samuel Wilson, Jr. influentially suggested that shotgun-style houses originated in the Creole suburbs (\"faubourgs\") of New Orleans in the early 1800s. He also stated that the term \"shotgun\" is a reference to the idea that if all the doors are opened, a shotgun blast fired into the house from the front doorway will fly cleanly to the other end and out at the back.\n\nAlternatively, folklorist and professor John Michael Vlach has suggested that the origin of the building style and the name itself may trace back to Haiti and Africa during the 18th century and earlier. Vlach claimed the name may have originated from a Dahomey Fon area term 'to-gun', which means \"place of assembly\". The description, probably used in New Orleans by Afro-Haitian slaves, may have been misunderstood and reinterpreted as \"shotgun\". Citing Vlach, James Deetz claimed archaeological support for an African origin in his dig at Parting Ways, a 1790s community of freed black slaves in Plymouth, Massachusetts; his shotgun interpretation of the extremely limited evidence – two rooms that \"may or may not have been unified\" – has been challenged as \"premature\".\nVlach's theory behind the earlier African origin is tied to the history of New Orleans. In 1803 there were 1,355 free blacks in the city. By 1810 blacks outnumbered whites 10,500 to 4,500. This caused a housing boom. As many of both the builders and inhabitants were Africans by way of Haiti, Vlach maintained it was only natural they modeled the new homes after ones they left behind in their homeland. Many surviving Haitian dwellings of the period, including about 15 percent of the housing stock of Port-au-Prince, resemble the single shotgun houses of New Orleans.\n\nThe shotgun house was popularized in New Orleans, and, as Fred Kniffen documented in a statewide survey of Louisiana house types in the 1930s, the greatest number are found dispersed from there in a manner that supports the diffusion theory. The style was definitely built there by 1832, though there is evidence that houses sold in the 1830s were built 15 to 20 years earlier.\n\nA simpler theory is that they are the typical one-room-deep floor plan popular in the rural south, rotated to accommodate narrow city lots.\nSuch houses were built throughout hot urban areas in the South, since the style's length allowed for excellent airflow, while its narrow frontage increased the number of lots that could be fitted along a street. It was used so frequently that some southern cities estimate that, even today, 10% or more of their housing stock is composed of shotgun houses.\n\nThe earliest known use of \"shotgun house\" as a name for these dwellings is in a classified advertisement in the \"Atlanta Journal-Constitution\", August 30, 1903: \"Two 3-room houses near the railroad yards at Simpson st. crossing, rent $12 a month to good tenants who pay in advance; price $1,200 on terms or $100 cash, balance $15 a month; a combination of investment and savings bank: these are not shacks, but good shot-gun houses in good repair.\" While this advertisement seems to present shotgun houses as a desirable working-class housing alternative, by 1929 a Tennessee court noted that shotgun houses could not be rented to any other than a very poor class of tenants. After the Great Depression few shotgun houses were built, and existing ones went into decline. By the late 20th century shotgun houses in some areas were being restored as housing and for other uses.\n\nShotgun houses were often initially built as rental properties, located near manufacturing centers or railroad hubs, to provide housing for workers. Owners of factories frequently built the houses to rent specifically to employees, usually for a few dollars a month. However, by the late 20th century shotguns were often owner-occupied. For example, 85% of the houses (many of them shotgun) in New Orleans' Lower Ninth Ward were owner-occupied.\n\nShotgun houses were most popular before widespread ownership of the automobile allowed people to live farther from businesses and other destinations. Building lots were small, 30 feet (9 m) wide at most. An influx of people to cities, both from rural areas in America and from foreign countries, all looking to fill emerging manufacturing jobs, created the high demand for housing in cities. Shotgun houses were built to fulfill the same need as rowhouses in Northeastern cities. Several were often built at a time by a single builder, contributing to their similar appearance.\n\nThe rooms of a shotgun house are lined up one behind the other, typically a living room is first, then one or two bedrooms, and finally a kitchen in back. Early shotgun houses were not built with bathrooms, but in later years a bathroom with a small hall was built before the last room of the house, or a side addition was built off the kitchen. Some shotguns have only two rooms.\n\nChimneys tended to be built in the interior, allowing the front and middle rooms to share a chimney with a fireplace opening in each room. The kitchen usually has its own chimney.\n\nOther than the basic floor layout, shotgun houses have many standard features in common. The house is almost always close to the street, sometimes with a very short front yard. In some cases, the house has no setback and is actually flush with the sidewalk. The original steps were wood, but were often replaced with permanent concrete steps.\n\nA sign of its New Orleans heritage, the house is usually raised two to three feet off the ground. There is a single door and window in the front of the house, and often a side door leading into the back room, which is slightly wider than the rest of the house. The front door and window often were originally covered by decorative shutters. Side walls may or may not have windows; rooms not adjoining the front nor back door will generally have at least one window even when the houses are built very close together.\n\nTypically, shotgun houses have a wood-frame structure and wood siding, although some examples exist in brick and even stone. Many shotguns, especially older or less expensive ones, have flat roofs that end at the front wall of the house. In houses built after 1880, the roof usually overhangs the front wall, and there is usually a gable above the overhang. The overhang is usually supported by decorative wooden brackets, and sometimes contains cast iron ventilators.\n\nThe rooms are well-sized, and have relatively high ceilings for cooling purposes, as when warm air can rise higher, the lower part of a room tends to be cooler. The lack of hallways allows for efficient cross-ventilation in every room. \nRooms usually have some decoration such as moldings, ceiling medallions, and elaborate woodwork. In cities like New Orleans, local industries supplied elaborate but mass-produced brackets and other ornaments for shotgun houses that were accessible even to homeowners of modest means.\n\nA conventional one-story freestanding shotgun house is often called a single shotgun. Many common variations exist in high quantity, and are often actually more common than the single shotgun in cities.\n\nA double shotgun, also called double-barrel shotgun, is essentially two shotgun houses connected to each other and sharing a central wall. They are a form of semi-detached housing. The double shotgun requires less land per household than the traditional shotgun and was used extensively in poorer areas because it could be built with fewer materials and use less land per occupant. It was first seen in New Orleans in 1854.\n\nA camelback house, also called humpback, is a variation of the shotgun that has a partial second floor over the rear of the house. Camelback houses were built in the later period of shotgun houses. The floor plan and construction is very similar to the traditional shotgun house, except there are stairs in the back room leading up to the second floor. The second floor, or \"hump\", contains one to four rooms. Because it was only a partial second story, most cities only taxed it as a single-story house – this was a key reason for their construction.\n\nThe double-width shotgun is an extra-large and -wide shotgun house, built on two lots instead of one. These were typically built one-to-a-block in locations where a single person would first buy the entire city block during development, then build themselves a double-sized home and subdivide the rest of the block with single-lot homes.\n\nA combination, the Double Camelback shotgun, also exists. A minor variation is a side door allowing access to the kitchen, or a porch along the side extending almost the length of the house.\n\n\"North shore\" houses are shotgun houses with wide verandas on three sides. They were so named because most were built on the north shore of New Orleans' Lake Pontchartrain as summer homes for wealthy whites.\n\nThe term may also refer to a different structure, common in rural areas and small towns, which takes the form of a small, long, free-standing house, generally made of wood, with no hallways. Unlike the larger terraced version, this is generally a single-storied dwelling, but it was still associated with poverty and popular partially because of its ability to make hot weather more comfortable. This building style can also be seen in a double shotgun style, made for use by one or two households. Both styles were commonly used in sawmill towns where examples still exist.\n\nThe construction of shotgun houses slowed and eventually stopped during the early 20th century. The increased affordability of two technological innovations, the car and consumer air conditioning units, made the key advantages of the shotgun house obsolete to home buyers. After World War II, shotgun houses had very little appeal to those building or buying new houses, as car-oriented modern suburbs were built \"en masse\". Few shotgun houses have been built in America since the war, although the concept of a simple, single-level floor plan lived on in ranch-style houses.\n\nThe surviving urban shotgun houses suffered problems related to those typically facing the inner city neighborhoods in which they were located. The flight of affluent residents to the suburbs, absentee owners, and a shortage of mortgage lenders for inner-city residents led to the deterioration of shotgun houses in the mid- and late 20th century. Confusing ownership, passed down within a family over several generations, also contributed to many houses sitting vacant for years.\n\nThough shotguns are sometimes perceived as being prevalent in poor African American neighborhoods, many originally constituted much of the housing stock of segregated white neighborhoods. Many of these neighborhoods became predominantly black during the 1950s and 1960s, but many others did not and remain predominantly white.\nRegardless of who was living in them, from World War II until the 1980s shotguns came to be widely viewed as substandard housing and a symbol of poverty, and they were demolished by many urban renewal projects. This thinking is no longer so prevalent, with cities such as Charlotte establishing \"Shotgun Historic Districts\". Shotgun houses have even been praised as quality and cost-effective cultural assets that promote a distinctive urban life. Other cities such as Macon, Georgia experimented with renovating shotgun houses for low-income residents and, though there was indecision on whether it would be cheaper to tear them down and build new housing, some were rebuilt.\n\nThere are many large neighborhoods in older American cities of the south which still contain a high concentration of shotgun houses today. Examples include Third Ward in Houston; Bywater in New Orleans; The Hill in St. Louis; Portland, Butchertown and Germantown in Louisville; and Cabbagetown in Atlanta. Their role in the history of the south has become recognized; for example, in October 2001 Rice University sponsored an exhibition called \"Shotguns 2001\". This three-day event featured lectures on and artistic paintings of the houses, as well as presentations and panel discussions in a neighborhood of restored shotguns.\n\nIn some shotgun-dominated neighborhoods, property value has become quite high, leading to gentrification. Sometimes, a new owner will buy both homes of a double-barreled shotgun structure and combine them, to form a relatively large single house. Shotguns are also often combined to renovate them into office or storage space.\n\nElements of the shotgun style have recently been seen in a number of the compact, low-occupancy structures employed in the Solar Decathlon contests held periodically in Washington, DC. While some are erected from panels brought to the site, many such structures consist of enclosed single or multiple units designed specifically for road transports, with multiple modules connected on site, and compact linear structures often employ multiple-use \"zones\" rather than specifically private areas, while retaining a linear progression of spaces.\n\nIn 2011 Louisville's daily newspaper, \"The Courier-Journal\", reported that a local nonprofit agency devoted to building and renovating affordable housing was building new shotgun houses in a development in southwest Louisville.\n\nThe shotgun house plays a large role in the folklore and culture of the south. Superstition holds that ghosts and spirits are attracted to shotgun houses because they may pass straight through them, and that some houses were built with doors intentionally misaligned to deter these spirits. They also often serve as a convenient symbol of life in the south. Elvis Presley was born in a shotgun house, Aaron Neville of The Neville Brothers grew up in one, \nand according to bluesman David Honeyboy Edwards, Robert Johnson died in one. Shortly before his death in May 1997, Jeff Buckley rented a shotgun house in Memphis and was so enamoured with it he contacted the owner about the possibility of buying it. \"Dream Brother\", David Browne's biography of Jeff and Tim Buckley, opens with a description of this shotgun house and Jeff's fondness of it.\n\nOne of the more widely known references to a shotgun house is in the 1980 Talking Heads song \"Once In A Lifetime\". The first line of the song is \"And you may find yourself living in a shotgun shack\".\n\nThe John Mellencamp song \"Pink Houses\" was inspired when he was driving along an overpass on the way home to Bloomington, Indiana from the Indianapolis airport. There was an old black man sitting outside his little pink shotgun house with his cat in his arms, completely unperturbed by the traffic speeding along the highway in his front yard. “He waved, and I waved back,” Mellencamp said in an interview with Rolling Stone. “That's how 'Pink Houses' started.”. In Bruce Springsteen's song \"We Take Care of Our Own\", from the album \"Wrecking Ball\", he refers to shotgun houses, singing \"We take care of our own, from the shotgun shack to the Super Dome\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12309382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12309382", "title": "Song of the Falklands", "text": "Song of the Falklands\n\n\"Song of the Falklands\" is the unofficial anthem of the Falkland Islands (\"God Save the Queen\" being official). It was written in the 1930s by Christopher Lanham, a Hampshire schoolteacher, while working on West Falkland.\n\nFirst Verse\n\nIn my heart there’s a call for the isles far away<br>\nWhere the wind from the Horn often wanders at play.<br>\nWhere the kelp moves and swells to the wind and the tide<br>\nAnd penguins troop down from the lonely hillside.<br>\n\nCHORUS:<br>\n\nSecond Verse\n\nThere’s a camp house down yonder I’m longing to see,<br>\nThough it’s no gilded palace it’s there I would be.<br>\nJust to be there again I would race o’er the foam,<br>\nFor that lone house so far is my own home sweet home.<br>\n\nChorus<br>\n\nThird Verse\n\nNow we’re off to the Falklands, so wild and so free,<br>\nWhere there’s tussock and kelp and the red diddle-dee,<br>\nAnd the wild rugged beauty that thrills more than me<br>\nIs bred in the bones on the isles of the sea.<br>\n\nChorus\n\n"}
{"id": "11960841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11960841", "title": "Teaching and Learning Research Programme", "text": "Teaching and Learning Research Programme\n\nThe Teaching and Learning Research Programme (TLRP) was the United Kingdom's largest investment in education research. It was initiated in 2000, ended in 2011 and was managed on behalf of the Higher Education Funding Councils by the Economic and Social Research Council . The programme engaged 700 researchers in some 70 major projects. These covered all education sectors - from Early Years to Higher Education and Workplace Learning. The TLRP researchers work closely in partnership with practitioners to ensure the relevance and application of findings to policy and practice. Thematic work across the diverse range of projects enabled analysis of themes and the identification of 'ten principles for effective teaching and learning'.\n\nDuring the project an interest emerged in Technology-Enhanced Learning (TEL). It began with a call for proposals in 2006, additional funding having been made available by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council. \n\nFrom 1995 to 2011, the Teaching and Learning Research programme was based at the Institute of Education, University of London. Prior to this, it was managed from the University of Exeter and University of Cambridge.\n\nThe programme acknowledges the important contributions provided by research on teaching and learning. The TLRP's aims, according to its website include :\n\n\nThere were six strategic commitments underpinning the programme's overall development:\n\nTLRP's projects covered a broad range of topics within the following areas of the lifecourse:\n\n\nStrategic management of the programme was conducted via a steering committee. This comprised academics, practitioners and other users and was chaired by Professor Robert Burgess, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Leicester. The steering committee was accountable to the ESRC Council.\n\nThe Directors’ Team possessed expert knowledge of all the key sectors in which research is currently being conducted. The final team was:\n\n\nAccording to its website, the Technology Enhanced Learning research has specific concern with:\n\n\nUnder the first phase of the TLRP-TEL programme, seven development projects were funded during 2006-2007.\n\nThe programme funded eight large, interdisciplinary projects under its second phase:\n\nThe Director of TLRP-TEL was Professor Richard Noss.\n\nSpecial education in the United Kingdom\n\n"}
{"id": "33840798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33840798", "title": "Textiles of Bhutan", "text": "Textiles of Bhutan\n\nBhutanese textiles represent a rich and complex repository of a unique art form. They are recognised for their abundance of colour, sophistication and variation of patterns, and the intricate dyeing and weaving techniques. The weavers, who are mostly women, must not be seen merely as creator of wealth but also as the innovators and owners of artistic skills developed and nurtured over centuries of time.\n\nThe history of Bhutanese textiles becomes more evident in the last century. As textile production moved beyond the confines of clothing to artistic expression of individuals and communities, patronage from the royal household was vital.\nAlthough the founders of the Wangchuck dynasty are from Bumthang, their ancestral home is in Lhuntse District, which was historically recognised as the home of the most celebrated weavers in the country.\nThe role and influence of royal women in sustaining and furthering the weaving tradition must be acknowledged. The 10th Trongsa Penlop Jigme Namgyal built the Wangducholing Palace in 1857 the loom houses (thagchem) accommodating 30 to 40 weavers, were built around the same time near the palace and existed until the mid 1900s.\n\nThe youngest sister of the second king, Princess \"Ashi\" Kunchog Wangmo Wangchuck (later a nun), is credited to have introduced the horizontal loom from Tibet in the 1930s.\nHer Majesty the Queen Mother \"Ashi\" Sangay Choden Wangchuck continuous to extend royal patronage to the textile industry. Her Majesty's interest and intervention have revitalised Bhutanese textiles, given the industry and impetus within the country and brought world attention to Bhutanese textiles. She is the Royal Patron of the Bhutan Textile Museum and the Chairman of the Royal Textile Academy of Bhutan (RTAB).\n\nToday Bhutanese textiles have reached new heights of dynamism and respect; they are valued not only for their economic viability, but also as a symbol of Bhutan's artistic heritage that commands world attention and appreciation.\n\nOrdinary weavers produced fabrics for general use that were of standard quality. The farmers wove only when they were free from agricultural work.It was the royal weavers, \"thama\", in the royal loom houses who were the professionals. Some of the aristocratic and landed households also professional weavers.\nThe all-encompassing use of textiles took it beyond the realm of clothing to the realms of rituals and symbolism, as a form of wealth and commodities for trade and taxation. A well-established system of production, use and exchange linked the communities, extended the threads of interdependence, and wove the very fabric of Bhutanese society.\n\nPlain weave textiles are usually woven in patterns with stripes and plaids.\n\nWarp is the yarn that runs lengthwise on the loom. The warp pattern designs are characterized by their supplementary warp floating technique that forms bands of repeated motifs on ground. The different warp pattern designs are differentiated with their color schemes. The number of legs or cross hatches in each supplementary warp pattern band is one indicator of the superiority of the textile. The textile is even more priced when the weaver includes weft pattern designs.\n\nWeft patterns are popularly referred to as Sapma continuous weft patterns and Tigma discontinuous weft patterns in Bhutan.\nThe continuous weft patterns are very similar to those featured in other textile throughout South and Southeast Asia. The weft yarn is inserted between intervals of the warp yarn to create continuous weft patterns.\nThe discontinuous weft patterns motifs resemble embroidery are indigenous to Bhutan. Colored pattern yarns are knotted individually to the weft yarns to create geometric motifs which are usually combination of multiple pattern motifs.\nThe \"sapma\" and \"Tingma\" weft pattern designs are usually used as pattern designs for :\n"}
{"id": "15533605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15533605", "title": "The Art of Eternity", "text": "The Art of Eternity\n\nThe Art of Eternity is a series of 3 1-hour documentaries on Christian art presented by Andrew Graham-Dixon. It was first broadcast on BBC Four in 2007, and later repeated on BBC Two.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3101959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3101959", "title": "Ticking time bomb scenario", "text": "Ticking time bomb scenario\n\nThe ticking time bomb scenario is a thought experiment that has been used in the ethics debate over whether torture can ever be justified. As a thought experiment, there is no need that the scenario be plausible; it need only serve to highlight ethical considerations. The scenario can be formulated as follows:\n\nSuppose that a person with knowledge of an imminent terrorist attack, that will kill many people, is in the hands of the authorities and that he will disclose the information needed to prevent the attack only if he is tortured. Should he be tortured?\n\nThe scenario can be better understood through the arguments of those who respond to it; the consequentialist argument is that nations, even those that legally disallow torture, can justify its use if they have a terrorist in custody who possesses critical knowledge, such as the location of a time bomb or a weapon of mass destruction that will soon explode and cause great loss of life. Opponents to the argument usually begin by exposing certain assumptions that tend to be hidden by initial presentations of the scenario and tend to obscure the true costs of permitting torture in \"real-life\" scenarios—e.g., the assumption that the person is in fact a terrorist, whereas in real life there usually remains uncertainty about whether the person is in fact a terrorist and that he has useful information—and rely on legal, philosophical/moral, and empirical grounds to reaffirm the need for the absolute prohibition of torture. There is also uncertainty about the effectiveness of torture, and much opposition to torture is based on the fact it is not effective rather than any moral issue.\n\nPhilosopher Jeremy Bentham has been regarded as the \"father\" of the ticking time bomb argument. He wrote in his 1804 essay \"Means of extraction for extraordinary occasions\":\n\nThe concept was popularized in the 1960s in the novel \"Les Centurions\" by Jean Lartéguy which is set during the Algerian war. The version in the novel has the following conditions:\nAccording to Darius Rejali, a professor of political science at Reed College, the possibility of sudden, massive destruction of innocent life provided French liberals with a more acceptable justification for committing torture.\n\nAlan Dershowitz, a prominent American defense attorney, surprised some observers by giving limited support to the idea that torture could be justified. He argued that human nature can lead to unregulated abuse \"off the books\". Therefore, it would be better if there were a regulated procedure through which an interrogator could request a \"torture warrant\" and that requiring a warrant would establish a paper trail of accountability. Torturers, and those who authorize torture, could be held to account for excesses. Dershowitz's suggested torture warrants, similar to search warrants, arrest warrants and phone tap warrants, would spell out the limits on the techniques that interrogators may use, and the extent to which they may abridge a suspect's rights.\n\nIn September 2002, when reviewing Alan Dershowitz's book, \"Why Terrorism Works: Understanding the Threat, Responding to the Challenge\", Richard Posner, legal scholar and judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, wrote in \"The New Republic\", \"If torture is the only means of obtaining the information necessary to prevent the detonation of a nuclear bomb in Times Square, torture should be used--and will be used--to obtain the information... No one who doubts that this is the case should be in a position of responsibility.\"\n\nIn February 2010 Bruce Anderson wrote a column for \"The Independent\", arguing that the British government would have not just the right, but the duty, to torture if there was a ticking bomb, and that they should torture the relatives of suspects if they believed that doing so would yield information that would avert a terrorist attack: \"It came, in the form of a devilish intellectual challenge. 'Let's take your hypothesis a bit further. We have captured a terrorist, but he is a hardened character. We cannot be certain that he will crack in time. We have also captured his wife and children'. After much agonising, I have come to the conclusion that there is only one answer to Sydney Kentridge's question. Torture the wife and children.\"\n\nSome human rights organizations, professional and academic experts, and military and intelligence leaders have absolutely rejected the idea that torture is ever legal or acceptable, even in a so-called ticking bomb situation. They have expressed grave concern about the way the dramatic force and artificially simple moral answers the ticking bomb thought-experiment seems to offer, have manipulated and distorted the legal and moral perceptions, reasoning and judgment of both the general population and military and law enforcement officials. They reject the proposition, implicit or explicit, that certain acts of torture are justifiable, even desirable. They believe that simplistic responses to the scenario may lead well-intentioned societies down a slippery slope to legalized and systematic torture. They point out that no evidence of any real-life situation meeting all the criteria to constitute a pure ticking bomb scenario has ever been presented to the public, and that such a situation is highly unlikely.\n\nAs well, torture can be criticized as a poor vehicle for discovering truth, as people experiencing torture, once broken, are liable to make anything up in order to stop the pain and can become unable to tell the difference between fact and fiction under intense psychological pressure. Additionally, since the terrorist presumably knows that the timer is ticking, he has an excellent reason to lie and give false information under torture in order to misdirect his interrogators; merely giving a convincing answer which the investigators will waste time checking out makes it more likely that the bomb will go off, and of course once the bomb has gone off, not only has the terrorist won, but there is also no further point in torturing him, except perhaps as revenge.\n\nOthers point out that the ticking-bomb torture proponents adopt an extremely short-term view, which impoverishes their consequentialism. Using torture—or even declaring that one is prepared to accept its use—makes other groups of people much more likely to use torture themselves in the long run. The consequence is likely to be a long-term increase in violence. This long-term effect is so serious that the person making the torture decision cannot possibly (according to this argument) make a reasonable estimate of its results. Thus the decision-maker has no grounds for certainty that the value of the lives saved from the ticking bomb will outweigh the value of the lives lost because of the subsequent disorder. He or she cannot arrive at a successful accounting of consequences.\n\nThis anti-torture argument, in fact, works by positing that human knowledge has intrinsic limits. An analogous argument holds that human decision-makers are fundamentally prone in certain situations to believe that their judgment is better than it is, and that, to be ethical, they must pre-commit themselves to a particular course of action in those situations. Knowing that, under stress, they will never be able to accurately assess the likely success of torture in obtaining information needed to prevent an attack, humans thus pre-commit to not torture. In general, this family of arguments faults the \"ticking-bomb\" scenario for implicitly including an incorrect presumption that the decision-maker can know in advance the outcome of torture, either in the short run (likelihood that it will prevent an attack) or the long run (likelihood that it will not set off a general increase in human violence).\n\nJoe Navarro, one of the FBI’s top experts in questioning techniques, told The New Yorker:\n\nThe United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, which was adopted on December 10, 1984, and entered into force on June 26, 1987, explicitly states in Article 2.2 that:\n\nCritics of the thought experiment scenario maintain that it is essentially implausible, based on simultaneous presence of numerous unlikely factors. This is particularly acute in fictional exploration of the scenario.\n\nFor example, in perhaps the most common variants on the scenario, one must assume that torturers know, with a reasonable degree of certainty that some form of deadly attack is imminent, but lack a crucial component of that plan, such as its precise location. They must also have in their custody someone who they are reasonably certain has said information and would talk under torture or threat of torture. They must then be able to accurately distinguish between true and false information which the subject may supply under torture. They must then be able to use this information to form a plan of response which is effective at stopping the planned attack. All of this must occur within a limited time frame allowed by the \"ticking bomb\".\n\nWorks of fiction, such as the television series \"24\", often rely on ticking time bomb scenarios for dramatic effect. According to the Parents Television Council, given that each season represents a 24-hour period, Jack Bauer encounters someone who needs torturing to reveal a ticking bomb on average 12 times per day.\n\nMichael Chertoff, the Secretary of Homeland Security under the George W. Bush administration, declared that \"24\" \"reflects real life\", John Yoo, the former Justice Department lawyer who produced the torture memos cited Bauer in support while Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia went further, \"Jack Bauer saved Los Angeles... He saved hundreds of thousands of lives. Are you going to convict Jack Bauer?\". One of the shows' creators stated:\n\nThe show uses the same techniques that are used by the U.S. against terrorist suspects during the War on Terror. U.S. Army Brigadier General Patrick Finnegan, the dean of the United States Military Academy at West Point, and others, objected to the central theme of the show—that the letter of American law must be sacrificed for the country’s security—as it had an adverse effect on the training of actual American soldiers by advocating unethical and illegal behavior. As Finnegan said:\n\nHe continued,\n\nThe \"ticking time bomb scenario\" is subject of the drama \"The Dershowitz Protocol\" by Canadian author Robert Fothergill. In that play, the American government has established a protocol of \"intensified interrogation\" for terrorist suspects which requires participation of the FBI, CIA and the Department of Justice. The drama deals with the psychological pressure and the tense triangle of competences under the overriding importance that each participant has to negotiate the actions with his conscience.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "536148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536148", "title": "Wardrobe malfunction", "text": "Wardrobe malfunction\n\nA wardrobe malfunction is accidental exposure of a person's intimate parts due to a temporary failure of clothing to do its job. It is different from indecent exposure or flashing, as the latter are deliberate, although some \"malfunctions\" are alleged to have been planned. There has been a long history of such incidents, though the term itself was only coined in the mid-2000s and has become one of the most common fashion faux pas. Justin Timberlake first used the term referring to the Super Bowl XXXVIII halftime-show controversy, issuing a scripted apology at the 2004 Grammy Awards. The phrase \"wardrobe malfunction\" has since been used by the media to refer to the incident and has entered pop culture.\n\nThe American Dialect Society defines \"wardrobe malfunction\" as \"an unanticipated exposure of bodily parts\". Global Language Monitor, which tracks usage of words on the internet and in newspapers worldwide, identified the term as the top Hollywood contribution to English (HollyWordie) in 2004, surpassing words like \"girlie men\", \"Yo!\" and \"frass\". The term was also one of the new entrants into the \"Chambers Dictionary\" in 2008, along with words like \"electrosmog\", \"carbon footprint\", \"credit crunch\" and \"social networking\". The dictionary defines it as \"the temporary failure of an item of clothing to do its job in covering a part of the body that it would be advisable to keep covered.\"\n\nThe term is credited as having been coined by singers Justin Timberlake and Janet Jackson, on February 1, 2004, to explain the Super Bowl XXXVIII halftime-show controversy; the controversy is in reference to Jackson's right breast having been bared. Timberlake apologized for the incident, stating he was \"sorry that anyone was offended by the wardrobe malfunction during the halftime performance of the Super Bowl...\" The term \"wardrobe malfunction\" appeared in numerous stories in major US consumer and business publications, newspapers, and major TV and radio broadcasts. Journalist Eric Alterman described the incident as \"the most famous 'wardrobe malfunction' since Lady Godiva.\"\n\nThe American Dialect Society had a number of related terms for word of the year nominations in 2004, including \"Janet moment\" (\"unplanned bodily exposure at a public function\"), \"boobgate\" (\"scandal over Janet Jackson's exposed breast\"), \"nipplegate\" (like boobgate, \"but used earlier in squawk over Jackson's possible nipple ring\") and \"wardrobe malfunction\" (\"overexposure in a mammary way\"). The term has been translated into other languages to describe similar incidents, including \"garderobedefect\" (Dutch), \"incident de garde-robe\" (French), \"disfunzione del guardaroba\" or \"incidente del guardaroba\" (Italian), and \"mal funcionamiento de vestuario\" (Spanish).\n\nAn early reported instance of wardrobe malfunction occurred on \"The Price Is Right\" in 1977 involving contestant Yolanda Bowersley, though such incidents were not called by that name at the time.\n\nIn \"DJing for Dummies\", John Steventon describes a range of wardrobe malfunctions from a revelation of buttock cleavage to visible panty lines.\n\nBikinis also present celebrity wardrobe malfunction opportunities to the paparazzi in the form of wedgies or bikini-top malfunctions. In \"Wedding Planning and Management: Consultancy for Diverse Clients\", Maggie Daniels warns, \"With so many people involved in the wedding party, a wardrobe malfunction is guaranteed to happen.\" In \"Cheer!: Inside the Secret World of College Cheerleaders\", Kate Torgovnick warns of wardrobe malfunctions while cheerleading.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853272", "title": "World Book Capital", "text": "World Book Capital\n\nThe success of World Book and Copyright Day, launched in 1996, encouraged UNESCO to develop the concept of World Book Capital City, selecting Madrid as the Capital for 2001. This was again a success, and so UNESCO's General Conference resolved to make the designation of a World Book Capital City an annual event.\n\nUNESCO invited the International Publishers Association, the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions and the International Booksellers Federation to participate in the nomination process, to ensure the three major branches of the book industry can participate in the decision.\n\nThe nomination does not include any financial prize; it rather acknowledges the best programmes dedicated to books and reading.\n\nThe nominating committee welcomes programmes — presented by or endorsed by the mayor of the city making the application — that promote and foster reading. The programmes are to run from one World Book and Copyright Day and the next. The nomination committee will turn its attention to certain criteria:\n\nThe following cities have been designated as World Book Capitals:\n"}
{"id": "3096130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3096130", "title": "Yetholm-type shield", "text": "Yetholm-type shield\n\nThe Yetholm-type shield is a distinctive type of shield dating from 1200-800 BC (Bronze Age). The known shields come from Britain and Ireland, excepting one from Denmark. Their modern name comes from Yetholm in southern Scotland where a peat bog yielded three examples. Twenty two examples are known, although some of these are fragmentary, and a further seven or eight are known from written sources but are lost today. The shields vary significantly in size, but are otherwise similar.\n\nRock carvings from this period made in Southern Scandinavia include depictions of shields decorated with concentric rings or rings of dots. The artist could not hope to show the fine detail of a Yetholm-type shield, but the similarity is striking.\n\nThe impressive shields would have indicated high social status.\n\nThe shields are made of a copper alloy sheet about 0.6 mm thick. The alloy is a high-tin bronze: copper with 11-14% tin. They are round with a central domed boss created by hammering out from the back. The shield face is covered in raised ridges in concentric rings, each a couple of millimetres high. Between the ridges are rings of small hemispherical bosses about 4 mm across. Decoration was formed by hammering from the reverse (Repoussé).\n\nThe outer edge of the shield has been folded back and hammered down to form a strong rim. A handle is riveted across the open bowl of the boss, made from a thicker piece of sheet bronze folded over; also attached are a pair of metal tabs for a carrying strap. Rivet heads are on the front for fitting attachments, but are similar to the decorative raised bosses and difficult to identify.\n\nProbably a flanged punch created the bosses to a uniform size and depth, although no contemporary tool has been found to accomplish this. The embossing would probably require the work piece to be supported, conceivably by a bed of pitch or lead. Some eye-judgement was required, which is revealed in the detail of the spacing of the bosses. As the craftsman came to complete a ring, the spacing would be changed slightly so as to ensure an even design and make the starting place inconspicuous. The shields show a high degree of accomplishment and, given the degree of similarity, it is likely that all were made in the same workshop by a few craftsmen.\n\nThe shields vary in size and in the number of embossed rings, but the size of the embossed features is consistent. The largest shield (found at Ayrshire) has twenty nine circular ridges and twenty nine rings of bosses; the smallest (originally thought to have been from County Antrim but actually from The River Thames) has eleven ridges and rings.\n\nThe overall design, and especially the tabs, indicate that the shield did not have a wooden backing or other reinforcement, though one shield from Lough Gur is believed to have been backed with leather (which was initially written off as dried peat). The embossed design and folded rim impart some stiffness, but some have suggested that the shields were too flimsy for combat. In a 1952 archaeology experiment by John Coles, a reconstruction was made from copper hardened to match a Yetholm-type shield, and it was hit with a replica bronze sword. The shield was cut in two by a single stroke. However, experiments by Barry Molloy and Kate Anderson have pointed out that bronze, the original material used, is substantially harder than even the hardened copper used by Coles, and that he appears to have used a much thinner sheet of copper than in the original designs. Additional design features such as small handles with only about 110 mm for the fingers to grip, have also been cited as evidence that the shields were not used for combat.\n\nSome shields have damage likely to have occurred as a part of a sacrificial ceremony. The South Cadbury specimen was laid in a ditch and stabbed three times with a wooden stake. Its discovery prompted metallurgical analysis of this and other examples by Peter Northover, strongly suggesting that, rather than the accepted range of 1000 to 800 BC, these shields were manufactured in the 12th century BC. Carbon dating implied that the South Cadbury example was deposited in the mid 10th century BC.\nHowever, one shield from Long Wittenham in Oxfordshire has two lozenge-shaped perforations, interpreted as piercings caused by a spearhead, and other piercings hammered flat to close the gap, suggesting that the shield was a veteran of several combat encounters.\n\nWith the exception of the specimen found at South Cadbury (by archaeologist Josh Williams), all were found in wet contexts. They formed part of a widespread practice of placing valuable objects in wet places. Presumably, this practice was motivated by religious beliefs, the details of which are unknown - although other ancient societies such as the Celts had similar practices.\n\n\n"}
