{"id": "8367846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8367846", "title": "Alien Nation (comics)", "text": "Alien Nation (comics)\n\n\"Alien Nation\" comic books were a number of comic books based on the \"Alien Nation\" entertainment media franchise. DC Comics initially produced a single-issue comic book adaptation of the 1988 film. Later, Malibu Comics, under their Adventure Comics imprint, produced several spin-off titles between 1990 and 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6963544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6963544", "title": "Apple TV", "text": "Apple TV\n\nApple TV is a digital media player and microconsole developed and sold by Apple Inc. It is a small network appliance and entertainment device that can receive digital data such as music or video from specific sources and stream it to a television that has HDMI input.\n\nApple TV is an HDMI-compliant source device. To use it for viewing, it has to be connected to an enhanced-definition or high-definition widescreen television via an HDMI cable. The device has no integrated controls and can only be controlled externally, either by an Apple Remote or Siri Remote control device (with which it is sold) using its infrared/Bluetooth capability, by the Apple TV Remote app (downloadable from App Store) on iOS devices, such as the iPhone, iPod Touch, iPad, and Apple Watch, using its Wi-Fi capability, or by some third-party infrared remotes.\n\nIts Wi-Fi capability is also used to receive digital content from various iOS apps using AirPlay or directly from the iTunes Store, which is then streamed to the TV. It also plays digital content from the iTunes Store, Netflix, Stan, Foxtel Now, Hulu, Now TV (UK only), SlingTV, PlayStation Vue, Amazon Prime Video, DirecTV, YouTube, Red Bull TV and Vevo along with HBO Now, Showtime Anytime, Starz, and the TV Everywhere portals of several cable and broadcast networks, and the video subscription portals of three of the four major North American sports leagues: MLB.tv, NBA League Pass, and NHL.tv. It plays content from any macOS or Windows computer running iTunes. Apple began to promote the Live Tune-In feature that allows the viewer to ask Siri to tune to live streams of CBS, ESPN, and Disney XD among many others that support Live Tune-In.\n\nIn an early attempt to enter the home entertainment industry, Apple released the Macintosh TV in 1993. Macintosh TV had a 14-inch CRT screen along with a TV tuner card. This did not prove to be a success, as only 10,000 units of Macintosh TV were sold up to its discontinuation in 1994. Apple's next foray into the television industry came with the Apple Interactive Television Box, also in 1994. Apple Interactive Television Box was a collaboration venture between Apple, BT and Belgacom but it never went on full sale. Apple's last major attempt to enter the home entertainment market before Apple TV occurred with their launch of Apple Bandai Pippin in the late 1990s. Apple Bandai Pippin combined a home game console with a networked computer.\n\nApple TV was unveiled as a work in progress called \"iTV\" on September 12, 2006 using a modified Front Row interface using the Apple Remote. Apple started taking pre-orders for Apple TV on January 9, 2007. The name \"iTV\" was originally going to be used to keep the product in line with the rest of their \"i\"-based products (iMac, iPod, etc.), but was not used because the British terrestrial broadcast network ITV holds the rights to the name in the UK and threatened to take legal action against Apple.\n\nApple TV first shipped on March 21, 2007 with a 40 GB hard disk. A updated model with a 160 GB HDD was released on May 31, 2007; subsequently, Apple ceased selling the 40 GB HDD version on September 14, 2009.\n\nOn January 15, 2008, a software upgrade was announced; this turned the Apple TV into a stand-alone device which removed the requirement for a computer running iTunes on Mac OS X or Windows to stream or sync content to it, and making most of the Apple TV's hard disk redundant. The update allowed the iTunes Store content to be directly rented and purchased, as well as photo streaming and podcast downloads from MobileMe (which was called .Mac at the time) and Flickr. Front Row became deprecated, and a new interface was introduced for the original Apple TV in which content was organized into six categories, all of which appeared in a large square box on the screen upon startup (movies, TV shows, music, YouTube, podcasts, and photos) and presented in the initial menu, along with a \"Settings\" option for configuration, including software updates.\n\nOn July 10, 2008, Apple released the iTunes Remote app on the App Store, and the Apple TV 2.1 software update that added recognition for the iPhone and iPod Touch as remote control devices intended as a software alternative to the Apple Remote. Later updates to the Apple TV, iTunes, and Remote software added support for the iPad, and introduced support for new features as they were added to iTunes.\n\nIn July 2011, Apple discontinued the Front Row interface for Mac users.\n\nOn September 9, 2015, Apple discontinued service and support for the first generation Apple TV. Beginning May 25, 2018, iTunes Store is no longer accessible from the device, due to its obsolete security standards.\n\nThe second generation Apple TV was unveiled on September 1, 2010, and was the first to run on a variant of iOS. The device is housed in a smaller, all-black case, one-quarter the size of the original. This model replaced the internal hard drive with 8 GB internal flash storage, enough local storage for buffering purposes; all media became streamed, instead of synced.\n\nIn May 2015 the YouTube app was removed from 2nd generation Apple TVs due to an API change by Google.\n\nIn the March 7, 2012 presentation that mainly dealt with the third generation iPad, Apple CEO Tim Cook announced a third version of the Apple TV. While being externally identical to the second generation model, the third generation Apple TV includes a single-core A5 processor which also allows for 1080p content support from iTunes and Netflix.\n\nApple silently released a third generation \"Rev A\" on January 28, 2013 with component changes included. By October 2016, Apple had phased out the Apple TV third generation, with Apple Store employees instructed to pull all units and demo units from store shelves.\n\nAmazon Video was automatically added to 3rd generation Apple TVs running 7.2.2 on December 6, 2017.\n\nOn September 9, 2015, Apple announced the 4th generation Apple TV at an Apple Special Event, where Tim Cook took the stage and said \"The future of television is apps\". While matching the form factor of the 2nd and 3rd generation models, the 4th generation model is significantly taller. In contrast to the old remote's arrow button, the 4th generation Apple TV's touch remote integrates swipe-to-select features and Siri support. This release also included a built-microphone and an accelerometer (IMU).\n\nThe 4th generation model also uses a new operating system, tvOS, with an associated app store, allowing download of third-party apps for video, audio, games and other content. Upon release, the third-party apps were available from a limited range of providers, with new APIs providing opportunities for more third-party apps. A requirement of new apps and games is that they must include interfacing with the new touchpad-enabled Siri remote.\n\nThe 4th generation Apple TV started shipping in October 2015. Upon launch, there were several unexpected issues which included incompatibility with Apple's Remote app for iOS and watchOS. These issues were fixed by Apple on December 8, 2015 in tvOS 9.1.\n\nAmazon initially declined to develop an Amazon Video application for Apple TV, and announced in October 2015 it would stop selling Apple TVs, and removed 3rd generation SKUs. In late 2017 Amazon reversed their stance and released an Amazon Video app, and resumed sales of Apple TVs.\n\nOn September 13, 2016, Apple released the tvOS 10 software update for the Apple TV, bringing an all new remote app, single-sign on, dark mode, HomeKit support, and other features to the 4th generation Apple TV.\n\nOn September 12, 2017, Apple announced the 5th generation Apple TV, named Apple TV 4K, which supports 2160p output, HDR10, Dolby Vision, and includes a faster Apple A10X Fusion processor. Dolby Atmos support was added in tvOS 12. Externally it is similar to the 4th generation model, with the only differences being the addition of vents on the base, the removal of the USB-C port, and the addition of a white outline around the menu button on the included Siri Remote. Following the announcement of the new models, the 64 GB version of the 4th generation Apple TV was discontinued.\n\nApple TV allows consumers to use an HDTV to stream video, music, and podcasts as well as downloading apps and games from the tvOS App Store. The first, second, and third generations offered limited content which Apple had provisioned to work with Apple TV. These have now been discontinued in favor of the fourth generation Apple TV, with an OS based on iOS called tvOS which lets developers create their own apps with their own interface that run on Apple TV. These include multimedia, music apps, and games.\n\nFeatures of Apple TV include:\n\n\nSince tvOS and watchOS are based on iOS, they have inherited many of the accessibility features of iOS and macOS and are compatible with Apple's entire product line including the Apple Watch as a remote controller for the Apple TV.\n\ntvOS includes the Apple technologies of VoiceOver, Zoom, and Siri to help the blind and those with low vision. Pairing a Bluetooth keyboard with the tvOS on the Apple TV enables another accessibility feature that also is an incorporation of VoiceOver. When typing, VoiceOver mirrors with an audio voice, each character pressed on the keyboard and repeated again when it is entered. The Apple TV is designed to work with the Apple Wireless Keyboard or the Apple Magic Keyboard.\n\nApple TV with and without tvOS supports closed captioning, so the deaf or hard of hearing can properly watch TV episodes and feature-length movies. Compatible episodes and movies are denoted with a CC (closed captioning) or SDH (Descriptive Audio) icon in the iTunes Store either on the Apple TV or in iTunes itself. The viewer can customize the captions in episodes or movies with styles and fonts that are more conducive to their hearing and/or visual impairment.\n\nApple's Remote app on iOS devices allows control of the Apple TV from an iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch.\n\nSimilar to Google's redesign of YouTube, Apple has restricted access to most viewed charts on movies and podcasts. They are replaced by \"Top Movies\", \"Top Podcasts\", and \"Editor's Picks\".\n\nParental controls allow consumers to limit access to Internet media service content via \"Restrictions\" settings; individual services can be turned off (e.g., to reduce clutter), icons can be rearranged via the tap-and-hold technique \"à la\" iOS. Internet media is split into four categories: \"Internet Photos\", \"YouTube\", \"Podcasts\", and \"Purchase and Rental\". Each of the categories is configured by a parental control of \"Show\", \"Hide\" or \"Ask\" to prompt for a 4-digit PIN. In addition, movies, TV shows, music and podcasts can be restricted by rating.\n\nApple TV allows users on a computer running iTunes to sync or stream photos, music and videos.\n\nA user can connect a computer on a local network to maintain a central home media library of digitized CD, DVD or HD content, provide direct connectivity to photo organization software such as iPhoto, limit home video access to a local network only, play Internet radio, or preload content on Apple TV to be used later as a non-networked video player. For users who wish to connect the Apple TV to a computer, synchronization and streaming modes are supported.\n\nApple TV in synchronization mode works in a way similar to the iPod. It is paired with an iTunes library on a single computer and can synchronize with that library, copying all or selected content to its own storage. Apple TV need not remain connected to the network after syncing. Photos can be synced from iPhoto, Aperture, or from a folder on a Mac, or Adobe Photoshop Album, Photoshop Elements, or from a hard disk folder in Windows.\n\nApple TV can also function as a peer-to-peer digital media player, streaming content from iTunes libraries and playing the content over the network.\n\n1st generation Apple TVs can stream content from up to five computers or iTunes libraries. Also, five Apple TVs can be linked to the same iTunes library. The 2nd generation Apple TV onwards allows users to stream content from more than one iTunes library: these additional iTunes libraries can be on the same or on different computers. This is possible when Apple TV and every iTunes library from which you want to stream content meet all of the following conditions: (1) the Apple TV and the iTunes library you are streaming from are both on the same local network, (2) each uses the iTunes \"Home Sharing\" feature, and (3) each are using the same \"Home Sharing\" Apple ID.\n\n4th generation Apple TVs and newer can also stream content locally using third party apps such as Plex and VLC media player.\n\nApple TV natively supports the following audio, video, and picture formats (although with the 4th generation, apps may use alternative built-in software in order to play other codecs and formats, e.g. VLC media player):\n\nVideo\n\nPicture\nAudio\n\nTV compatibility\nAttempts to sync unsupported content to Apple TV will draw an error message from iTunes.\n\nThe 1st and 2nd generation Apple TV video output can be set to either 1080i or 1080p; however, this resolution is limited to the user interface and the viewing of photographs – all other content is simply upscaled to those resolutions. Those models cannot play 1080i or 1080p video content (e.g., HD camera video). The 3rd and 4th generation Apple TV support 1080p video content. The Apple TV 4K, as the name suggests, supports 4K resolutions and HDR, including Dolby Vision. 4K content from sources such as iTunes can be played on a compatible 4K television set.\n\nApple offers H.264 1080p movies and video podcasts on iTunes. In comparison, Blu-ray Disc films are 1080p H.264 or VC-1 video encoded at rates of up to 40 Mbit/s.\n\nApple TV's audio chip supports 7.1 surround sound, and some high definition rentals from iTunes are offered with Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound.\n\nThere is an Apple TV export option in QuickTime which allows content in some formats that the device does not support to be easily re-encoded. Applications that use QuickTime to export media can use this; e.g., iMovie's Share menu, iTunes' advanced menu, and some third-party content conversion tools.\n\nApple TV streams video through an HDMI cable (Type A) connected to the TV's HDMI port. Audio is supported through the optical or HDMI ports. The device also has a Micro-USB port, which is reserved for service and diagnostics. The device connects through Ethernet or Wi-Fi to the computer for digital content from the Internet and local networks. Apple TV does not come with audio, video or other cables, which must be acquired additionally as required. On the previous Apple TV, media files could be transferred directly onto the device by syncing with another computer. Once content was stored on the device's hard drive, Internet connectivity was no longer needed to view content. This is not the case with the later models, which do not have a hard drive for storing media.\n\nThe 1st generation Apple TV had component video and RCA connector audio ports, both removed in the 2nd generation. The device does not have RCA/composite video or F/RF connectors.\n\nStarting with the 4th generation Apple TV, Apple removed the optical audio port. Apple also enhanced the HDMI port by adding support for HDMI 1.4. The 4th generation also removed the Micro-USB port in favor of the reversible USB-C port and the 5th generation removed USB entirely.\n\nAirPlay allows iOS devices or an AirPort-enabled computer with the iTunes music player to send a stream of music to multiple (three to six, in typical conditions) stereos connected to an AirPort Express (the audio-only antecedent of Apple TV) or Apple TV.\n\nThe AirPort Express' streaming media capabilities use Apple's Remote Audio Output Protocol (RAOP), a proprietary variant of RTSP/RTP. Using WDS-bridging, the AirPort Express can allow AirPlay functionality (as well as Internet access, file and print sharing, etc.) across a larger distance in a mixed environment of wired and up to 10 wireless clients.\n\nSpeakers attached to an AirPort Express or Apple TV can be selected from within the \"Remote\" iPhone/iPod Touch program, allowing full AirPlay compatibility (see \"Remote control\" section below).\n\nA compatible Mac running OS X Mountain Lion or later can wirelessly mirror its screen to an Apple TV through AirPlay Mirroring while one running OS X Mavericks or later can also extend its display with AirPlay Display.\n\nApple TV can be controlled by many infrared remote controls or paired with the included Apple Remote to prevent interference from other remotes. Either kind of remote can control playback volume, but for music only.\n\nThe Apple Wireless Keyboard is supported on the 2nd generation Apple TV and later using the built-in Bluetooth. The consumer has the ability to control media playback, navigate menus and input text and other information. Third-party keyboards that use the Apple layout may also be compatible.\n\nOn July 10, 2008, Apple released \"Remote\", a free iOS application that allows the iPhone, iPod Touch, and iPad to control the iTunes library on the Apple TV via Wi-Fi. The Apple Watch also has a remote app to control Apple TV.\n\nThe Remote App was updated on September 13, 2016, to take advantage of all the features of the Apple TV 4. This includes Siri, Touchpad, and Home Buttons, along with a now playing screen.\nOn September 9, 2015, Apple announced the new Siri Remote for the 4th generation Apple TV (although in some territories, Apple have kept the name Apple TV Remote, due to Siri functionality not being enabled on it in that territory). It is a completely redesigned remote that features dual microphones for Siri support and a glass touch surface for navigation around the interface by swiping or tapping and scrubbing to fast forward or rewind. Also, it has a menu and home button, a Siri button to invoke Siri, a Play/Pause button, and a Volume Up/Down button to control the volume on the TV. The Siri Remote will communicate with the Apple TV via Bluetooth rather than infrared, removing the requirement of a line-of-sight with the device. This new remote is only supported by the 4th generation Apple TV and later and will not work with earlier generations.\n\nBeginning with the 4th generation Apple TV, the remote includes two microphones and a button to activate Siri. Siri on the Apple TV has all of the functions of Siri on iOS 9; it can also respond to requests specifically for the TV. For instance, the viewer can ask Siri to search for a TV show or movie and it will search across multiple different sources to tell the user where the content is available to watch. It can also do things such as Play/Pause, Rewind/Fast Forward, skip back 15 seconds and temporarily turn on captioning when asked \"what did he say?\" or \"what did she say?\", open a specific app, and more.\n\nThe original Apple TV ran a modified build of Mac OS X v10.4 Tiger\n\nApple TV software 1.0 presented the user with an interface similar to that of Front Row. Like Front Row on the Mac, it presents the user with seven options for consuming content. Movies, TV Shows, Music, Podcasts, Photos, Settings, and Sources. It was a modified version of OS x v10.4 Tiger.\n\nIn February 2008, Apple released a major and free upgrade to the Apple TV, labelled \"Take Two\"(2.0). This update did away with Front Row and introduced a new interface in which content was organized into six categories, all of which appeared in a large square box on the screen upon startup (movies, TV shows, music, YouTube, podcasts, and photos) and presented in the initial menu, along with a \"Settings\" option for configuration, including software updates.\n\nIn October 2009, Apple released a minor upgrade for the Apple TV called \"Apple TV Software 3.0\". This update replaced the interface in version 2.0 with a new interface which presented seven horizontal columns across the top of the screen for the different categories of content (Movies, TV Shows, Music, Podcasts, Photos, Internet, and Settings). This update also added features such as content filtering, iTunes Extras, new fonts, and a new Internet radio app. The maximum resolution increased in both the 40 GB and 160 GB version to include 1080P.\n\nOne new feature in particular was the 'Genius' playlist option allowing for easier and more user friendly playlist creating\n\nThe 2nd and 3rd generation Apple TVs run a version of iOS, rather than the modified Mac OS X of the original model.\n\nThe interface on Apple TV Software 4 is similar to that of previous versions, with only minor changes and feature additions throughout. In March 2012, Apple released a major new software update, with the Apple TV 3rd generation, labeled as Apple TV Software 5 (iOS 5.1), which shipped with the new 3rd generation Apple TV. This update completely revised the look of the home screen to make it resemble the icon grid seen on iOS. Instead of 7 columns, content and third-party channels are shown in a tiled grid format, which can be rearranged. Throughout the years, for Apple TV Software 5-6, Apple released minor revisions, content additions, and feature updates.\n\nThe Apple TV Software 7.0 features a flat look similar to iOS 7 and OS X Yosemite and adds features such as Peer-To-Peer AirPlay. Version 8.0 was skipped.\n\nThe final OS update for the third-generation Apple TV is Apple TV Software 7.2.2 (iOS 8.4.2) since it does not support tvOS 9.0 or later. However, it does support Amazon Video, which was automatically added to those Apple TVs running 7.2.2 on December 6, 2017.\n\nThe fourth generation Apple TV and later run an operating system called \"tvOS\" which does not support the earlier generations of Apple TV. It features an app store, allowing third-party app developers to release their own apps on the platform. The new software also features support for Siri voice control. The tvOS software development kit (SDK) for developing tvOS apps is included in Xcode 7.1 and later. A new development feature, App Thinning, is used in the Apple TV, running on tvOS, due to the storage restrictions of the device (32GB and 64GB) and the dual-use of the NAND Flash Memory to precache movies from Apple's content servers as well as storage for downloaded applications from the tvOS App Store. Apple's aim is to limit the size of application downloads and steering users towards downloading individual segments of apps in order to better manage storage space. Developers have reacted with criticism towards the download size limits, arguing that it leads to situations where game data is purged and has to be re-downloaded.\n\nApple TV contains neither a TV tuner nor a personal video recorder. Both capabilities can be applied to the connected home computer through various third-party products, such as allowing PVR software to connect to iTunes and enable scheduled HDTV recordings to play automatically via Apple TV for playback.\n\nThe Front Row interface lacks some iTunes functionality, including rating items, checking the account balance, adding funds to the account, synchronizing from more than one computer, full Internet radio support, and games.\n\nThe Movies search box only searches the iTunes Store, not local hard drives and networks.\n\nMovies rented on Apple TV must be watched on Apple TV, unlike iTunes rentals, which can be transferred to any video-enabled iPod, iPhone, or Apple TV. Movies purchased on Apple TV can be moved to a video-enabled iPod or iPhone via iTunes.\n\nApple TV prior to 4th generation does not support the HDMI Consumer Electronics Control (HDMI CEC) protocol.\n\nOn the Apple TV (2nd generation), digital output audio is up-sampled to 48 kHz, including lossless CD rips at 44.1 kHz. Although this is a higher frequency and the difference is not audible in most cases, it falls short of digital transmission of data standards due to the audio not being 'bit perfect'.\n\nWithin the first week of presales in January 2007, Apple TV was the top pre-selling item at the Apple Store. Orders exceeded 100,000 units by the end of January and Apple began ramping-up to sell over a million units before the 2007 holiday season. Analysts began calling it a \"DVD killer\" that could enable multiple services. Analysts also predicted that Apple could sell up to 1.5 million units in the first year. Besides the Apple Store, Best Buy was one of the first retailers to carry the device; Target and Costco followed shortly thereafter.\n\nTwo months into sales, Forrester Research predicted at the time that Apple would only sell a million Apple TV units, because consumers prefer advertisement-supported content over paid content. Forrester predicted that cable companies would be the clear winners over content providers such as the iTunes Store. Shortly after, Apple released YouTube functionality and Jobs stated that Apple TV was a \"DVD player for the Internet\". Some market analysts predicted that YouTube on Apple TV \"provides a glimpse of this product's potential and its future evolution\", but overall, analysts had mixed reactions regarding the future of Apple TV. Some negative reactions followed after Jobs referred to the device as a \"hobby\", implying it was less significant than the Macintosh, iPod, and iPhone.\n\nIn the fourth quarter of 2008, sales were triple that of the fourth quarter of 2007.\n\nIn Apple's first-quarter 2009 financial results conference call, acting chief executive Tim Cook stated that Apple TV sales increased three times over the same quarter a year ago. Cook mentioned that the movie rental business was working well for Apple, Apple would continue investment in movie rentals and Apple TV, but Apple TV is still considered a hobby for the company. Due to the growth of digital TV and consumers turning to Internet media services, an analyst at the time predicted sales of 6.6 million Apple TVs by the end of 2009.\n\nThe second generation sold 250,000 units in the first two weeks it was available. On December 21, 2010, Apple announced that they had sold 1 million units. In the second fiscal quarter of 2011, it had topped 2 million in total sales, with 820,000 sold in that quarter alone.\n\nOn January 24, 2012, Apple announced they had sold 1.4 million units in the first fiscal quarter of 2012, and 2.8 million units in all of fiscal year 2011. (4.2 million units through January 1, 2012).\n\nTim Cook announced at the All Things Digital conference in May 2012 that Apple had sold 2.7 million of the 3rd generation model in 2012.\n\nIn the Q4 FY2012 earnings call, Engadget reported comments from Tim Cook that Apple had shipped 1.3 million Apple TV units in the 4th Quarter (presumed to be 3rd generation).\n\nMacObserver reported statements by Tim Cook in the Q1 FY2013 earnings call that Apple sold over 2 million Apple TV units in the December Quarter (presumed to be 3rd generation).\n\nThese reports lead to a cumulative volume of the 3rd generation device of 6 million units, as of January 1, 2013.\n\nOn February 28, 2014, at Apple's shareholders meeting, Apple CEO Tim Cook announced that in 2013 Apple TV brought in 1 billion dollars of revenue for Apple.\n\nA market survey published by Parks Associates in December 2014 found that Apple TV has lost consumer traction to Google Chromecast, garnering only a 17% market share.\n\nTim Cook announced at the Apple Watch conference on March 9, 2015, that Apple had sold a total of 25 million Apple TVs up to that point.\n\nIn the January 27, 2016, Apple earnings call, CEO Tim Cook stated that the Apple TV had record sales. However, no specific sales figures were mentioned; Apple TV is included in an \"Other products\" category, which also includes the Apple Watch, iPods, and Beats products, and is not broken down by individual products.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8414321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8414321", "title": "Assault Heroes", "text": "Assault Heroes\n\nAssault Heroes is an arcade-style, top-down shooter video game developed by Wanako Games. The game has the player driving 4x4 vehicles, piloting speedboats, or proceeding on foot against enemy hordes. Players can play alone or co-operatively, including both online and offline 2-player co-operative modes.\n\n\"Assault Heroes\" was originally available as an Xbox Live Arcade title. On March 19, 2008, its price was lowered when the game joined the Arcade Hits lineup. A Microsoft Windows retail version was released on October 23, 2007 and the PS3 retail version was added to the PlayStation Network on January 28, 2010 by Konami exclusively in the United States. As of today, the PS3 digital version is no longer available for purchase.\n\nOriginally designed as an Xbox Live Arcade title, \"Assault Heroes\" features only minimal story elements. According to the game, the player controls \"the last surviving member of an elite forces unit\" searching for a secret enemy laboratory. Once located (near the end of the game), the goal is to destroy the lab and escape.\n\nOver the course of the game (which is very similar to the 1987 video game \"Time Soldiers\"), players battle through five progressively more difficult levels. In addition to countless lesser foes, each level generally contains several \"bosses\" which must be defeated in order to proceed. Using the left thumbstick to move and the right thumbstick to aim/shoot (when playing on the Xbox 360 & PS3), players dodge enemy fire while inflicting damage upon foes utilizing three primary weapons:\n\n\nPlayer vehicles have access to these primary weapons at all times and can switch between them with a button press. Weapons have unlimited ammunition, although the flamethrower will \"cut out\" briefly if used without interruption for a period of time. Each weapon can be upgraded (up to three times) by collecting an appropriate power-up during play, although upgrades are lost if the player is killed.\n\nVehicle health depletes when damage is taken, but slowly replenishes over time. If a vehicle is destroyed, players are not immediately killed, but are instead thrown from the vehicle and must proceed on foot. While on foot, players are exceptionally frail and have only a small machine gun with which to defend themselves. If a player lacking a vehicle survives for a certain period of time, a new vehicle is automatically delivered and can be immediately boarded. Players can also temporarily leave their vehicle of their own free will, usually to collect power-ups which are not accessible from within a vehicle.\n\nIn addition to the standard weapons which vehicles are equipped with, players also have access to a limited number of \"grenades\" and \"nukes\". Grenades are \"thrown\" from the current position towards a crosshair, and inflict heavy damage on anything they hit. Nukes (referred to as \"smart bombs\" in many other titles) explode in an area around the player, causing massive carnage to everything caught within the blast radius.\n\nAdditional quantities of both weapon types can be found and collected as power-ups during the game, with grenades being substantially more plentiful than nukes.\n\nEach level features a single underground bonus area. These are accessed by entering a specially-marked structure, which then transports the player(s) into an underground bunker. While underground, players are always on foot, and hence are easily killed. However, if players do die during these bonus sections, no life is actually lost; instead, players are immediately returned to the main (above ground) level and continue as before.\n\nAt the end of each underground area is an extra life (or \"1-up\"), earned for successfully completing the sub-level.\n\nWhen playing with two players, both players share the same screen and work co-operatively to destroy enemy forces. Players cannot harm each other directly, although they can scroll (or refuse to scroll) the screen in a manner which can be problematic for the other player. The game does not increase or otherwise change the quantity and difficulty level of enemy forces based on the presence of a second player. As a result, having a second player can make gameplay somewhat easier.\n\nPlayers can play multiplayer either offline, or online via Xbox Live or PSN. When playing offline, high scores are not recorded on the leaderboards for either player if one of the players is using a local account.\n\n\"Assault Heroes\" received positive reviews from critics. On Metacritic, the Xbox 360 version of the game has a score of 79/100 based on 16 reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31687830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31687830", "title": "Aura II: The Sacred Rings", "text": "Aura II: The Sacred Rings\n\nAura II: The Sacred Rings is an adventure-genre computer game created by Canadian studio Streko-Graphics Inc. and published by The Adventure Company.\n\nThe game has a Metacritic rating of 44% based on 18 critic reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "1579964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1579964", "title": "Balloon modelling", "text": "Balloon modelling\n\nBalloon modelling or balloon twisting is the shaping of special modelling balloons into almost any given shape, often a balloon animal. People who create balloon animals and other twisted balloon sculptures are called Twisters, Balloon Benders and Balloon Artists. Twisters often perform in restaurants, at birthday parties, fairs and at public and private events or functions.\n\nTwo of the primary design styles are \"single balloon modelling\", which restricts itself to the use of one balloon per model, and \"multiple balloon modelling\", which uses more than one balloon. Each style has its own set of challenges and skills, but few twisters who have reached an intermediate or advanced skill level limit themselves to one style or another. Depending on the needs of the moment, they might easily move between the one-balloon or multiple approaches, or they might even incorporate additional techniques such as \"weaving\" and \"stuffing\". Modelling techniques have evolved to include a range of very complex moves, and a highly specialized vocabulary has emerged to describe the techniques involved and their resulting creations.\n\nSome twisters inflate their balloons with their own lungs, and for many years this was a standard and necessary part of the act. However, many now use a pump of some sort, whether it is a hand pump, an electric pump plugged in or run by a battery pack, or a compressed gas tank containing air or nitrogen. Twisters do not generally fill their creations with helium, as these designs will not usually float anyway. The balloons for twisting are too porous for helium and the designs are generally too heavy for their size for helium to lift.\n\nThe origins of balloon modelling are unknown. The 1975 book by \"Jolly the Clown\" Petri credits \"Herman Bonnert from Pennsylvania at a magician's convention in 1939\" as being the first balloontwister. Val Andrews, in \"Manual of Balloon Modeling, Vol. 1, An Encyclopedic Series\", credits H.J. Bonnert of Scranton, Pennsylvania as being the \"daddy of them all\". Jim Church III states, \"Frank Zacone from Youngstown, Ohio was doing a balloon act during the 1940s and had been doing the act for some time.\" Another candidate for first balloon twister is Henry Maar.\n\nTwo essential items are required for balloon twisting:\n\nteddy bear\n\n"}
{"id": "35711364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35711364", "title": "Bloodforge", "text": "Bloodforge\n\nBloodforge is a third-person view hack and slash action game developed by Climax Studios, Microsoft Studios and Imagination Studios, and published by Microsoft Studios for Xbox Live Arcade in 2012. The game follows a warrior named Crom, who lusts for revenge against the Celtic gods that betrayed his life of peace, making him slay his own family.\n\n\"Bloodforge\" is a hack and slash game in which the player must combat his enemies with an array of weaponry. The player uses an equipped weapon to attack opponents until they are defeated or get until they get disoriented (signaled by an icon on the head), where Crom can then perform a gruesome finishing move on the opponent. This gives the player more Blood which is the currency in the game. The more damage done to the enemy, the more Blood that is spilled, thereby rewarding the player with excessive amounts of Blood that can be then be used for purchasing upgrades for special abilities. The main weapons of the game are sword, war hammer, claws, and crossbow. All which have three available weapon upgrades. The Health Bar is shown at the top left of the screen in green, along with a Rage bar in red. Health and a variety of Runes can be found in breakable cairns, the player can also find Mana runes which recharge the Rune Bar.\n\nCrom is a powerful and brute Celtic warrior who abandoned his life of battle to dwell in comfort with his beautiful wife, Alena. The story begins with Crom on a hunting trip as he dreams a horrific encounter with Arawn, the king of the netherworld realm of Annwn. Crom hastily returns home, only to find his village seemingly attacked by demons. Crom, consumed with rage, begins searching for his beloved Alena, he drives his sword into yet another demon, which transforms back into Alena. Disoriented and stricken with grief, Crom encounters the goddess Morrigan, who then leads him to the shrine of his ancestors, where he finds a mysterious gauntlet. She informs Crom that if he wants to exact his vengeance upon the god, he must traverse the Bloodforge. Crom accepts his overturn with fate and unleashes his unrelenting fury on all those who oppose him. Crom ventures off to discover the Bloodforge, massacre legions of demons, warriors, monsters, and butcher the very gods who betrayed him, including Aerten, the goddess of fate.\n\n\"Bloodforge\" was developed by Climax Studios who collaborated with Microsoft to work on the game to only be released on Xbox 360 for the Xbox Live Arcade. After the game was completed, Microsoft decided to publish the game themselves and complete it under Microsoft Studios. \"Bloodforge\" was then released on April 25, 2012 on XBLA. An update on July 27 dramatically improved the camera, re-balanced difficulty and corrected issues with awards and achievements not unlocking.\n\nCritical reception towards the game was generally unfavourable. \"Bloodforge\" received a low rating of only 42/100 at review aggregation website Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "3182739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3182739", "title": "Broadcasting of sports events", "text": "Broadcasting of sports events\n\nThe broadcasting of sports events (also known as a sportscast) is the live coverage of sports as a television program, on radio, and other broadcasting media. It usually involves one or more sports commentators describing the events as they happen.\n\nBroadcasting of sports started with descriptions of play sent via telegraph in the 1890s. In 1896, a telegraph line was connected to the Victoria Rink in Montreal to update fans in Winnipeg of the Stanley Cup challenge series between Montreal and Winnipeg ice hockey teams. In 1923, the first radio broadcast of an ice hockey game took place on 8 February, with the broadcast of the third period of a game between Midland and North Toronto of the Ontario Hockey Association. Later that month, the first full-game broadcast took place in Winnipeg. That same season, hockey broadcasting pioneer Foster Hewitt made his first broadcast.\n\nIn 1933, Hewitt called a Canada-wide radio broadcast of an NHL game between the Detroit Red Wings and the Toronto Maple Leafs. Always starting the broadcast with \"Hello, Canada, and hockey fans in the United States and Newfoundland!\"; this phrase stuck around (albeit without the \"Newfoundland\" portion after the dominion confederated into Canada in 1949) all the way to CBC's first national television broadcast (the first actual broadcast was on closed-circuit in Maple Leaf Gardens in Spring 1952) of \"Hockey Night in Canada\" in October 1952. Today it is consistently among the highest-rated programs in Canada.\n\nBroadcasting of the Canadian Football League has been a fixture of Canadian television since the CBC's debut in 1952. From 1962 (one year after the debut of CTV) through 2007, there were two separate CFL contracts: one for CBC, and one for CTV (or a sister channel such as cable outlet TSN). Terrestrial television broadcasts of CFL games ended in 2008, when TSN acquired exclusive TV rights to the league.\n\nAmerican sports broadcasts are widely available in Canada, both from Canadian stations and from border blasters in the United States. In order to protect Canadian broadcasters' advertising, broadcast stations can invoke simultaneous substitution: any cable or satellite feed of an American station broadcasting the same program as a Canadian broadcast station must be blacked out and replaced by the Canadian feed. This rule is part of the reason the NFL, which is broadcast on terrestrial television in the United States but has no direct presence in Canada, is also broadcast on terrestrial TV in Canada, while the CFL no longer is (the CFL is broadcast only on cable in the United States); the simultaneous substitution benefits are not extended to cable stations. For the purposes of regional sports broadcasting, the Toronto Blue Jays and Toronto Raptors both claim all of Canada as their \"territory,\" allowing Blue Jays and Raptors games to be broadcast nationwide.\n\nThe first live commentary on a field sport anywhere in Europe was when Paddy Mehigan covered the All-Ireland Hurling Semi-Final between Kilkenny and Galway on 29 August 1926. This game is credited with being the first mainly because the BBC was prevented from broadcasting sporting events before 7.00pm as a means of protecting British newspaper sales.\n\nThe first sports event broadcast in the United Kingdom was a Rugby Union international between England and Wales, broadcast from Twickenham in January 1927. Two weeks later the first broadcast of a football match took place, with the BBC covering Arsenal's league fixture against Sheffield United at Highbury. Listeners to the broadcast could use numbered grids published in the Radio Times in order to ascertain in which area of the pitch the action was taking place due to a second commentator reading out grid references during the match.\n\nThe United Kingdom saw the first live television broadcast of a football match, with the BBC showing a specially arranged fixture between Arsenal and Arsenal Reserves on 16 September 1937.\n\nThe British media is dominated by national outlets, with local media playing a much smaller role. Traditionally the BBC played a dominant role in televising sport, providing extensive high-quality advertisement free coverage and free publicity in exchange for being granted broadcast rights for low fees. ITV broadcast a smaller portfolio of events, and Channel 4 broadcast a few events from the 1980s, mainly horse races and so-called minority sports. In the early 1990s this arrangement was shaken up by the arrival of pay-TV in the form of BSkyB. Their dedicated sports channels have since become the only place for some major sports to be seen. Starting in 2006 the Irish company Setanta Sports emerged as a challenger to Sky Sports' dominance of the British pay-TV sports market; however, Setanta's UK channel went into bankruptcy administration and off the air in 2009. Between 2009 and 2013 ESPN made an attempt to challenge Sky Sports before its British operations were bought out by Sky's current main competitor, BT Sport; a subsidiary of the former national telecommunications monopoly BT plc. There are also a dedicated UK version of Eurosport, called British Eurosport, and Eleven Sports.\n\nRadio sports coverage is also important. BBC Radio 5 Live broadcasts almost all major sports events. It now has a commercial rival called Talksport, but this has not acquired anywhere near as many exclusive contracts as Sky Sports and dedicates much of its airtime to sports discussions and phone-ins; Absolute Radio has also begun acquiring sports rights. BBC Local Radio also provides extensive coverage of sport, giving more exposure to second-tier clubs which get limited national coverage.\n\nNational and local media both serve major roles in broadcasting sports in the United States. Depending on the league and event, telecasts are often shown live on network television (traditionally on weekends and during major events either national through a Television network, or in some cases, regionally syndicated by an operation such as Raycom Sports or a team), and nationally available cable channels (such as ESPN or Fox Sports 1). In some leagues (such as the NHL and the NBA), events are also primarily shown by regional sports networks groups (such as Fox Sports Networks), networks which air telecasts for teams of local interest, which are usually only carried within the relevant market. Additionally, cable channels also exist that are dedicated to specific types of sports, certain college sports conferences, or a specific league. Pay-per-view broadcasts are typically restricted to combat sports such as boxing, mixed martial arts or professional wrestling.\n\nRadio broadcasts are extensive. The national leagues each have national network coverage of league high games in addition to local radio coverage originating with each team, with ESPN Radio and WestwoodOne controlling national rights to the major team sports and the motorsports circuits operating their own networks. Local radio broadcasts cover a wide variety of sports, ranging from the majors to local school and recreational leagues.\n\nInternet broadcasts are also common, though college and major professional sports either use a pay wall or subscriber-based systems such as TV Everywhere to extract payment. Telephone broadcasts are rare, although a few companies provide the service.\n\nIn 1911, more than 1,000 people gathered in downtown Lawrence, Kansas to watch a mechanical reproduction of the 1911 Kansas vs. Missouri football game while it was being played. A Western Union telegraph wire was set up direct from Columbia, Missouri. A group of people then would announce the results of the previous play and used a large model of a football playing field to show the results. Those in attendance cheered as though they were watching the game live, including the school's legendary \"Rock Chalk, Jayhawk\" cheer.\n\nThe first voice broadcast of a sporting event took place on 11 April 1921 when Westinghouse station KDKA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania broadcast a 10-round, no decision boxing match between Johnny Dundee and Johnny Ray at Pittsburgh's Motor Square Garden. Prior to that, an experimental telegraph broadcast of the 1919 Lone Star Showdown was held on Thanksgiving Day of that year on experimental station 5XB, the predecessor of WTAW.\n\nThe first radio broadcast of a baseball game occurred on 5 August 1921 over KDKA from Pittsburgh's Forbes Field. Harold W. Arlin announced a game between the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Philadelphia Phillies. Two months later, on 8 October 1921, from the same Forbes Field, Arlin announced the first live radio broadcast of a college football game on KDKA when he gave the play-by-play action of the University of Pittsburgh victory over West Virginia University.\n\nOn 17 May 1939, the United States' first televised sporting event, a college baseball game between the Columbia Lions and Princeton Tigers, was broadcast by NBC from Columbia's Baker Field. (The world's first live televised sporting event had been the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin.) On 30 September 1939, the first American football game, a college contest between Fordham and Waynesburg College was broadcast on television. The first nationwide broadcast of college football, which was also the first live sporting event seen coast-to-coast, was a game between Duke University and the University of Pittsburgh that was televised by NBC on 29 September 1951. The broadcasting of college football games on television in the United States has been a fixture of the major networks on a continuous basis since that time. The NCAA severely restricted broadcasts of college football from the 1950s until a judge ruled that the action was a violation of antitrust rules in 1984, which allowed for a much greater expansion of college football broadcasting.\n\nNBC broadcast the first televised National Football League (NFL) game when they carried the 22 October 1939 game between the Philadelphia Eagles and the Brooklyn Dodgers. The same year, the first nationwide radio broadcast of an NFL championship game was carried on the Mutual Broadcasting System. While the NFL had weak television deals that ranked behind college football and even the Canadian Football League in the 1950s, the broadcast rights of the NFL would go on to become an important property following the 1958 NFL Championship and the later establishment of the American Football League in 1960. \"Monday Night Football\", \"NFL on Fox\", and \"NBC Sunday Night Football\" have changed the landscape of American football broadcasts, including the scheduling of the Super Bowl, transforming it from an afternoon broadcast into a primetime spectacle. The price for the NFL's broadcast rights has increased steadily over the past several decades, in part because of bidding wars between the numerous networks and the fear of losing stature due to the loss of NFL programming; as of the most recent contract the league nets annual fees of over $6 billion, or half of the league's overall revenue, from television rights alone. Four of the five major sports television units in the United States, and the four companies that control all of the major broadcast networks, currently own some NFL rights.\n\nNBC also broadcast an NHL game in 1940; the league would briefly air games in the 1950s, but due to a dispute over how much of the rights fee money the players would receive (and difficulties programming around the two Canadian teams in the league at the time), the NHL refused to televise its games in the United States for six years in the 1960s. For this reason, as well as the regional nature of the sport, televised NHL games have struggled to gain a foothold on American television for the past several decades, trailing the other leagues in ratings. After several decades of bouncing around various networks (and a stretch from 1975 to 1994 when the league had no permanent broadcast partner), the NHL established a stable broadcast partner in 2004, when NBC and what was then Outdoor Life Network (now NBCSN) took over NHL broadcast rights; they have since renewed those rights through 2021.\n\nThe first-ever television broadcast of a basketball game occurred on 28 February 1940 when the University of Pittsburgh defeated Fordham at Madison Square Garden on NBC station W2XBS. Professional basketball has been aired on television since 1953, shortly after the founding of the National Basketball Association, and has been aired on television ever since. College basketball, on the other hand, was much later in gaining a television foothold. Although the NCAA Tournament has aired since 1962, it was not until the mid-1970s that regular-season college basketball games would air on major network television.\n\nOutside of the networks, the only other source for national sports television was through early syndication networks. Sports Network Incorporated (SNI), later renamed the Hughes Television Network, carried Cleveland Browns (NFL) games in the 1950s and NHL games in the late 1970s, after the NHL lost its contract with NBC. TVS Television Network helped popularize the broadcasts of college basketball and also gave an outlet to the short-lived World Football League. Mizlou Television Network earned a reputation for carrying a large number of college football bowl games in an era when televised college football was highly restricted. Modern syndication networks still exist for sporting events, such as Raycom Sports and American Sports Network, both of which specialize in college sports.\n\nThe debut of ESPN in 1979 revolutionized the broadcasting of sports events. Within several years of ESPN's founding as a basic cable channel, it had developed a stable of sports broadcasts ranging from major leagues to oddities. ESPN has since grown into a massive multiplexed network, with several channels and a large news bureau that has led to the network bestowing the title of \"Worldwide Leader in Sports\" upon itself. Cable, and later digital cable and satellite, greatly expanded the number of channels (and, by extension, the room for broadcasting sports events) available on a given set, and also gave channels such as ESPN the ability to broadcast direct and nationwide, as opposed to dealing with local affiliates. Syndication networks gave way to regional sports networks, which carried broadcasts of local sports on a far greater scale than full-service broadcast stations could provide at the time; these combined with out-of-market sports packages (which debuted in the 1990s) allowed the carriage of these networks' sporting events across the country. However, with the increased availability of sports to broadcast came increasing rights fees, which could be recovered by the newly authorized practice of collecting retransmission consent fees from cable subscribers, which has led to numerous disputes and the dropping of channels from cable lineups. Individual leagues began launching their own networks in the 2000s; specialty networks of other sports have had varying levels of success.\n\nOne of the first live high-definition sports broadcasts in the U.S. took place in September 1998 in which a football game between Ohio State and West Virginia, aired on WBNS-TV. The station claims this to have been the first locally produced HD broadcast in the U.S.; however, as several other stations throughout the country also lay claim to this distinction, the veracity cannot be verified. It is widely considered the first ever live sports game in HD in the U.S. produced using a production truck and transmission vehicle from NHK, Japan's national public broadcasting organization.\n\nThe Internet has also allowed greater broadcasting of sports events, both in video and audio forms and through free and subscription channels. With an Internet broadcast, even a locally broadcast high school football game can be heard worldwide on any device with an audio output and an Internet connection. Individual leagues (including major ones) all have subscription services that allow subscribers to watch their sporting events for a fee.\n\nOne of the first live sporting events in the U.S. to be streamed was the Ohio State spring football game in 2001 by WBNS-TV. The game was delivered on RealVideo, a compressed video format, on the RealPlayer media player platform on the station's website. It also was distributed to Windows Mobile mobile devices using the Windows Media Player format, including Compaq's IPAQ personal digital assistant which required an ExpressCard to connect to the Internet.\n\nBroadcasting rights and contracts limit who can show footage of the event.\n\nIn the United Kingdom BSkyB based its early marketing largely on its acquisition of the broadcast rights of the top division of the English league football, which as part of the deal with The Football Association broke away from The Football League to become the Premier League. This prevented the footage of any major Premier League football game being shown on free-to-air television until much later that evening (as highlights), something the European Commission were very unhappy about. Following warnings of legal action to stop the monopoly, an announcement was made that an alternative structure would be in place when the contract ended in 2007.\n\nIn the United States, team sports are broadcast by networks usually only in \"game of the week\" or championship situations, except for the NFL (see NFL on television) and motorsport. Other sports are broadcast by sports channels, and are limited by who can view them based on various rules set by the leagues themselves, resulting in blackouts. These limitations can be legally overlooked by purchasing out-of-market sports packages, such as MLB Extra Innings or NFL Sunday Ticket. Regular season games involving local teams (except the NFL) may also be viewed on those local stations or regional sports channels that have a contract to broadcast that team's games.\n\nEvents that have been described as \"the most watched\" per various definitions include the FIFA World Cup, Summer Olympic Games, Cricket World Cup, UEFA Champions League, Tour de France, Rugby World Cup (rugby union), Indian Premier League, Super Bowl, and the FIA Formula One World Championship.\n\nTV Rights of the UEFA Champions League, per country. Season 2009-2010, according to FootBiz.\n\n\nIn some countries, broadcast regulations referred to as \"anti-siphoning laws\" exist in order to ensure that coverage of major sporting events of national importance—often covering major events such as the Olympics, FIFA World Cup, and national team events in culturally-significant sports—are available on free-to-air, terrestrial television, rather than exclusively on pay television. Some larger events (particularly the Olympics) may be covered under rules allowing a portion of the event to be televised by a pay TV partner if a specific minimum of coverage is broadcast free-to-air, or if an extended highlights package is available on a delay to a free-to-air broadcaster.\n\nIn the United States, an attempt by the Federal Communications Commission to introduce similar restrictions on cable broadcasts of specific sporting events and recent films as to not cannibalize broadcast TV, was deemed unconstitutional in the 1977 court case \"Home Box Office, Inc. v. FCC\". Since then, sports have been a lucrative source of revenue in the U.S. pay television industry, including mainstream networks such as ESPN, as well as channels devoted to specific sports, leagues, and college sports conferences. These networks receive revenue from both advertising and carriage fees charged to television providers (and passed onto consumers as part of the cost of service), and can provide an outlet for expanded coverage of \"niche\" events with dedicated audiences.\n\nBy the mid-2000s and early 2010s, most major U.S. sports leagues (barring the National Football League, which has historically stipulated that all games be shown on terrestrial television in at least the markets of the teams involved) had begun to steadily decrease their presence on broadcast television, and allow more of their content (including post-season coverage in many cases) to air on cable networks, and more recently, digital-only outlets. The NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament and national championship games in college football have also largely moved to cable (since 2016, the semi-finals of the former only air on broadcast television in odd-numbered years).\n\nPay-per-view\n\n\n\n\nNational General Sports Networks:\n\nSpanish:\n\nSpecialty Sports Networks:\n\nCollege Sports Networks:\n\nRegional sports networks:\n\n\nSeveral sports teams in the United States have their own channels, or own shares in other sports networks. For example, the Boston Red Sox and Boston Bruins own New England Sports Network, which retains the New England area television broadcast rights for the majority of Red Sox games (except nationally televised games). The New York Mets own SportsNet New York jointly with Comcast and Time Warner Cable. Madison Square Garden has its own network as well, MSG, where they broadcast New York Rangers, New York Knicks, New York Islanders and high school sports games, as well as original shows. Altitude airs games of all Denver-based teams owned by Kroenke Sports Enterprises. Mid-Atlantic Sports Network is a partnership between the Washington Nationals and Baltimore Orioles.\n\nThe Longhorn Network, in which ESPN owns a stake, is even more specialized, designed as an outlet for the athletic program of the University of Texas at Austin (although it has also aired football games of the UT system's San Antonio campus).\n\nTeam-owned channels are also common in Europe, most notably Barça TV, Benfica TV, Galatasaray TV, Manchester United TV and Real Madrid TV.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "689464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=689464", "title": "Dance therapy", "text": "Dance therapy\n\nDance/movement therapy (DMT) in USA/ Australia or dance movement psychotherapy (DMP) in the UK is the psychotherapeutic use of movement and dance to support intellectual, emotional, and motor functions of the body. As a modality of the creative arts therapies, DMT looks at the correlation between movement and emotion.\nDance has been used therapeutically for thousands of years. It has been used as a healing ritual in the influence of fertility, birth, sickness, and death since early human history. Over the period from 1840 to 1930, a new philosophy of dance developed in Europe and the United States, defined by the idea that movement could have an effect on the mover vis-a-vis that dance was not simply an expressive art. There is a general opinion that Dance/movement as active imagination was originated by Jung in 1916, developed in the 1960s by dance therapy pioneer Mary Whitehouse. Tina Keller-Jenny and other therapists started practicing the therapy in 1940. The actual establishment of dance as a therapy and as a profession occurred in the 1950s, beginning with future American Dance Therapy Association founder Marian Chace.\n\nMarian Chace, spearheaded the movement of dance in the medical community as a form of therapy. She is considered the principal founder of what is now dance therapy in the United States. In 1942, through her work, dance was first introduced to western medicine. Chace was originally a dancer, choreographer, and performer. After opening her own dance school in Washington, D.C., Chace began to realize the effects dance and movement had on her students. The reported feelings of wellbeing from her students began to attract the attention of the medical community, and some local doctors began sending patients to her classes. She was soon asked to work at St. Elizabeth’s Hospital in Washington, D.C. once psychiatrists too realized the benefits their patients were receiving from attending Chace’s dance classes. In 1966 Chace became the first president of the American Dance Therapy Association, an organization which she and several other DMT pioneers founded. According to the ADTA, dance is \"the psychotherapeutic use of movement as a process which furthers the emotional, social, cognitive, and physical integration of the individual.\"\n\nThe second wave of Dance Movement Therapy came around the 1970s to the 1980s and it sparked much interest from American therapists. During this time, therapists began to experiment with the psychotherapeutic applications of dance and movement. As a result of the therapists' experiments, DMT was then categorized as a form of psychotherapy. It was from this second wave that today’s Dance Movement Therapy evolved.\n\nThe theory of DMT is based mainly upon the belief that body and mind interact. Both conscious and unconscious movement of the person, based on the dualist mind body premise, affects total functioning, and also reflects the individual’s personality. Therefore, the therapist-client relationship is partly based on non-verbal cues such as body language. Movement is believed to have a symbolic function and as such can aid in understanding the self. Movement improvisation allows the client to experiment with new ways of being and DMT provides a manner or channel in which the client can consciously understand early relationships with negative stimuli through non-verbal mediation by the therapist.\n\nThrough the unity of the body, mind, and spirit, DMT provides a sense of wholeness to all individuals. The body refers to the \"discharging of energy through muscular-skeletal responses to stimuli received by the brain.\" The mind refers to \"mental activities...such as memory, imagery, perception, attention, evaluation, reasoning and decision making.\" The spirit refers to the \"subjectively experienced state of feeling in engaging in or empathically observing dancing.\"\n\nDance therapy works to improve the social skills, as well as relational dynamics among the clients that choose to participate in it to better improve their quality of life. Through this form of therapy clients will gain a deeper sense of self-awareness through a meditative process that involves movement, motion, and realization of one's body. Dance therapy is different from other forms of rehabilitative treatments because it allows creative expression and is more holistic, meaning it treats the full person: mind, body, and spirit.\n\nThe therapy process has four stages, which occur during DMT and can be a creative time for both the therapist and patient(s). Each stage contains a smaller set of goals which correlate to the larger purpose of DMT. The stages and goals of DMT vary with each individual. Although the stages are progressive, the stages are usually revisited several times throughout the entire DMT process. The four stages are:\n\nA variety of approaches to dance and movement are used in DMT depending on the needs to the client. These may include codified dance forms (such as partner dances, Modern Dance, ballet, folk and circle dances etc.), creative movement, improvisation and choreographic process, as well as somatic practices, Movement Analysis, Authentic Movement and body psychotherapy. The practitioner may use any approach to movement and dance which they are familiar with adapted to the frame of DMT.\n\nVarious hypothesis have been proposed for mechanisms by which dance therapy may benefit participants. There is a social component to dance therapy, which can be valuable for psychological functioning through human interaction. Another possible mechanism is the music that is used during the session, which may be able to reduce pain, decrease anxiety, and increase relaxation. Since dance requires learning and involves becoming active and discovering capacities for movement, there is also the physical training that could provide benefits as well. Dancing may be considered more uplifting and enjoyable than other types of exercise. Dance therapy can also involve nonverbal communication, \"which enables participants to express their feelings without words. This might be helpful when normal communication is absent or has broken down (eg, for patients with dementia).\"\n\nA Cochrane review entitled \"Dance therapy for schizophrenia\" in 2013 concluded:\n\nA review by the Cochrane Collaboration entitled \"Dance/movement therapy for cancer patients\" was updated in January 2015 to say:\n\nThe most recent Cochrane review for DMT was in February 2015 entitled \"Is dance movement therapy an effective treatment for depression? A review of the evidence\". The findings stated:\nOne review of the effect of DMT on Parkinson's disease noted that there have been few studies in this area. DMT appears to meet most requirements for exercise programs for patient's with Parkinson's. Benefits in gait function, balance, and quality of life were found in short-term studies, though further studies need to be done to see if any of these benefits are seen long-term.\n\nThe latest Cochrane review entitled \"Dance Movement Therapy for Dementia\" published in 2017 concluded that there we no high quality trials to assess the effect of DMT on behavioural, social, cognitive and emotional symptoms in people with dementia.\n\nResearch has found that using dance movements as a form of therapy activates several brain functions at once: kinesthetic, rational, musical, and emotional. This type of movement requires mental, physical, and emotional strength to work simultaneously. In one research study, senior citizens were placed in a 21-year study to see if any physical or cognitive recreational activity influenced mental acuity. Researchers monitored rates of dementia in the elderly participants. The study included cognitive activities such as reading books, doing crossword puzzles, and playing musical instruments and physical activities such as golf, walking for exercise, and dancing. Results showed that almost none of the physical activities appeared to offer any defense against dementia. The activity with the highest percentage of protection against dementia was dancing frequently (76%). It was the greatest risk reduction of any activity studied, cognitive or physical. This is because dance therapy combines multiple areas of the brain to work together at once rather than just stimulating one area at a time.\n\nDance therapy is found to have beneficial results on children who have been abused. Research has found that this therapy is a useful form of support and intervention for these children. Through a case study with a sexually abused female, the researcher stated that the individual felt a sense of empowerment after the dance therapy sessions and reported greater success in school. The individual also felt a stronger sense of self-confidence and a higher view of self-esteem. The study states that using dance therapy would be a beneficial experience in a multi-disciplinary treatment for abused and neglected children.\n\nAnother researcher studied the effects of dance therapy with children at risk of abuse and their relationship with their mothers. During this study, mothers and their children were surveyed on their relationship prior to the session, asking questions regarding their communication, physical touch, and sense of security felt by the child. After the dance therapy session, the participants were surveyed again with the same measure. The results reported a stronger bond between mother and child. The participants reported a stronger sense of belonging in the pair and felt more openness in terms of communication. Through dance therapy practices, these mother and daughter pairs were able to develop a starting point in rebuilding their relationship.\n\nThe effects of dance intervention were also found to be therapeutic to psychiatric participants and those who are emotional disturbed. In one research study, psychiatric patients were randomly assigned to one of three conditions: a dance group in a traditional dance circle, a group that just listened to the music, and another group that rode stationary bikes without music but same time duration as the dance circle. While all three conditions lessened or stabilized the condition of the patients, the results found that the dance group benefitted the most from the dance intervention. The dance circle group reported less depression and more vitality than the other groups. This study shows that not just physical activity or listening to music is enough; the combining of the two into dance is the most beneficial for achieving a positive impact.\n\nAnother research study completed with children in psychiatry also showed a positive relationship with this type of therapy. The ending result was a newfound cohesion among children who were previously labeled disorderly and misbehaved. The participants reported an increase in self-confidence and a positive body image after the dance intervention. The children had stronger communication and social skills, such as team work, after the dance intervention.\n\nMost trials studying dance therapy did not specifically comment on whether or not adverse effects occurred, though one noted a broken finger, thought to be related to dancing.\n\nDMT is practiced in a large variety of locations. Such locations include:\n\nOrganizations such as the American Dance Therapy Association were created in order to uphold high standards in the field of DMT. Such organizations help connect individuals to therapists and DMT.\n\nAmerican Dance Therapy Association (ADTA) was founded in 1966 in order to uphold high standards throughout dance therapy. The ADTA was created by Marian Chace, the first president of the ADTA, and other pioneers in dance movement. Along with setting standards for which therapists must attain to become licensed therapists, ADTA keeps an updated registry of all movement/dance therapists who have met ADTA’s standards. In addition, ADTA also publishes the American Journal of Dance Therapy and sponsors annual professional conferences.\n\nThe Association for Dance Movement Psychotherapy, United Kingdom (ADMP UK) was one of the first organizations established to regulate the field of dance therapy. ADMP UK accredits therapists and oversees that all regulations are followed.\n\nAllied professions are areas that a person could do, special studies, short courses, or eventually become trained in the area of DMT.\n\nADTA is the main regulator of the required education and training in order to become a dance/movement therapist in the USA. A master's degree is required to become a dance/movement therapist. \"Registered Dance/Movement Therapist\" (R-DMT) is the title given to entry-level dance/movement therapists who have completed requisite education and a minimum 700-hour supervised clinical internship. Those who have completed over 3,640 hours of supervised professional clinical work may hold the advanced credential \"Board Certified Dance/Movement Therapist (BC-DMT).\n\nTypically becoming a dance therapist requires a graduate degree of at least a Master's level. There is no specific undergraduate degree, however many practitioners hold undergraduate degrees fields in, or related to, psychology or dance.\n\nAll master's degrees in the UK and the USA require clinical placements, personal therapy and supervision, as well as experiential and theoretical learning, and typically require between 2 and 3 years to complete. Upon completion of a Masters graduates are eligible to register as Dance Movement Therapists/Psychotherapists with their professional associations. In the UK graduates may also register with the UK Council of Psychotherapists(UKCP).\n\nIt is also possible to register as a Dance Movement Therapist/Psychotherapist without a DMT/DMP Masters. This usually requires equilvilant psychotherapeutic training and substantial experience of applying dance into therapeutic settings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20034463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20034463", "title": "Dedication 3", "text": "Dedication 3\n\nDedication 3 is a mixtape by Lil Wayne, hosted by DJ Drama. It is the sequel to its predecessors, \"The Dedication\" and the highly successful \"Dedication 2\", becoming the third in Lil Wayne's \"Gangsta Grillz\" series. Lil Wayne also told MTV, \"\"Tha Carter IV\" is nice but you need to be looking for \"Dedication 3\"\". Although \"Dedication 3\" was a major success, it failed to match that of its predecessors despite gaining some attention. The mixtape has sold over 70,000 copies in the United States, despite being available for free download. Besides the interludes, a majority of the mixtape has Wayne using auto-tune and rapping alongside artists signed to his label, Young Money Entertainment.\n\n"}
{"id": "1444947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1444947", "title": "Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening", "text": "Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening\n\nDevil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening, released in Japan as , is an action-adventure hack and slash video game directed by Hideaki Itsuno, developed and published by Capcom, released in 2005 for the PlayStation 2 and ported to Microsoft Windows in 2006. The game is a prequel to the original \"Devil May Cry\", with a younger Dante. It introduces new combat mechanics with an emphasis on combos and fast paced action. The story is told primarily in cutscenes using the game's engine, with several pre-rendered full motion videos.\n\nSet several years before the events of the first \"Devil May Cry\" in an enchanted tower, \"Temen-ni-gru\", the story centers on the dysfunctional relationship between Dante and his brother Vergil. \n\n\"Devil May Cry 3\" was praised by critics yet received some criticisms for its high level of difficulty in the North American version. This was rectified by the release of the easier and rebalanced Special Edition of the game.. The game was re‐released in 2006 as with a recalibrated difficulty curve, the addition of mid-mission checkpoints, \"GOLD mode\", and Vergil as a playable character. Combined sales of both versions were over 2.3 million, and a 2005 manga prequel to the game was published in Japan and later the United States.\n\nThe gameplay in \"Devil May Cry 3\" consists of levels (\"missions\") in which players battle enemies, carry out platforming tasks and solve puzzles to progress through the story. The player's performance in each mission is graded from D through C, B and A, with top marks of S and SS. Grades are based on time taken to complete a mission, the number of red orbs (game currency, obtained from defeated enemies) gathered, \"stylish\" combat, item usage and damage received.\nStylish combat is the performance of a series of attacks while avoiding damage, and is tracked by an on-screen gauge. The longer a player attacks without repetition and evades damage, the higher the score. The gauge registers \"Dope\" after a few attacks, progressing through \"Crazy\", \"Blast\", \"Alright\", \"Sweet\", \"SShowtime\" to peak at \"SSStylish\". If Dante receives damage, the style rating falls; if the gauge is \"Crazy\" or below, it will reset. \"Devil May Cry 3\"s battle system allows a player to link attacks, with each weapon having a set number of attacks. \n\nThe Devil Trigger enables the player's character to assume a demonic form. This alters the character's appearance, increases attack and defense, restores health and enables special attacks. This is a departure from the previous titles, where Dante draws power from weapons and items he procures throughout the game. The Devil Trigger state lasts as long as there is energy in the Devil Trigger gauge; the gauge rises by attacking (or taunting) enemies in normal mode, and falls when using the Devil Trigger transformation or other abilities using Devil Trigger power (such as the Quicksilver and Doppelganger styles, described below). The Devil Trigger mode is not available to Dante until one-third of the way through the game, while Vergil (playable in the special edition) has the ability at the outset.\n\nIn Devil May Cry 3, Dante can switch between all 4 currently equipped weapons (two guns, two melee) mid-combo on the fly. Allowing for far greater combat freedom and variety than in previous Devil May Cry games. The other major difference from previous \"Devil May Cry\" games is \"Devil May Cry 3\"s combat system, which allows a player to choose one of Dante's four combat styles; each style has a different focus and techniques. Style selection is available at the beginning of each level and during gameplay at checkpoints. The styles are \"Trickster\", for dodging and agility; \"Swordmaster\", with abilities for swords and other weapons; \"Gunslinger\", with firearms techniques and \"Royal Guard\", which allows a player to repel attacks with a button press (storing energy for retaliation). Later in the game, a player accesses two additional styles: \"Quicksilver\" (slowing enemies, while the character attacks at normal speed) and \"Doppelgänger\" (creating a shadow double who fights alongside Dante). A second player may control the shadow double by pressing \"Start\" on a second controller. A two-player mode, similar to the Doppelgänger style, is accessible while Dante and Vergil battle Arkham. In the special edition Vergil has another style, \"Dark Slayer\", which is similar to Trickster.\n\n\"Devil May Cry 3\" - a prequel to the first game - opens in Dante's yet-unnamed shop in an American metropolis. A mysterious man, Arkham, arrives with an invitation from Dante's brother Vergil in the guise of a demonic attack. After Dante defeats his adversaries, a huge tower erupts from the ground nearby, eclipsing the sprawling city surrounding it. Sensing that Vergil is on the structure, Dante interprets this as a challenge. He begins fighting demons during his journey; once defeated, they become his weapons. Dante is attacked by a woman on a motorcycle who turns out to be Mary, Arkham's daughter, who wants revenge on her father for causing her mother's death. Arkham works for Vergil; they plan to take Dante's half of their mother's amulet and use its power on the tower to connect the human and demonic worlds.\n\nAfter a number of battles and an encounter with a being named Jester, Dante reaches the tower's summit and battles Vergil. Vergil defeats Dante, steals his amulet and leaves; Dante's dormant demonic powers emerge, and he sets out in pursuit. He catches Vergil in a control room in the tower's basement, where Vergil cannot reactivate the tower. The brothers fight again, until they are interrupted by Mary and Jester. Jester reveals himself as Arkham, who has manipulated them all to reactivate the tower to reach the demonic world. There he plans to steal the Force Edge, the dormant form of Sparda's sword with his power, using it to rule a demon-infested Earth. The tower transforms as the spell is broken; Arkham is carried to the summit, and Vergil disappears in the confusion.\n\nDante battles his way back up the tower, fighting Mary for the right to pursue Arkham. He is victorious, and Mary lends him her most-powerful weapon. Reaching the summit, Dante crosses to the demonic world and catches Arkham (who has assumed Sparda's demonic form). Overwhelmed by power, Arkham transforms into a blob-like creature who battles Dante. During the fight Vergil reappears, and the brothers work together to expel Arkham from the demonic world; weakened, Arkham lands on the tower (where Mary kills him). In the demonic world, Dante and Vergil fight for ownership of the Force Edge and the amulet halves. After his defeat Vergil remains as the portal closes, vanishing into the darkness with his half of the amulet.\n\nDante meets Mary outside the tower; they form a friendship and the beginnings of a partnership as demon-slayers and he names his shop \"Devil May Cry\". A scene after the credits shows Vergil in the demonic world, weak but determined, as he charges into battle against his father's old foe Mundus.\n\nAfter the mixed reception of \"Devil May Cry 2\", Capcom developed \"Devil May Cry 3\" in a similar manner to the series' more critically acclaimed first game, \"Devil May Cry\"; its gameplay elements, such as environment size and battle engine, were reexamined. Other aspects of \"Devil May Cry 2\", such as the toning-down of Dante's cockiness and the game's lack of difficulty, were brought back in line with \"Devil May Cry\".\n\nAs during the original \"Devil May Cry\" Vergil was said to have been killed by demons early and had his soul under the control of Mundus, Bingo Morihashi wanted to create an alternate universe in which Vergil was alive. However, Hideki Kamiya gave Morihashi the freedom to retcon this and make Vergil into a living teenager for the events of \"Devil May Cry 3\".\n\nAccording to a pre-release interview with the game's producer, Tsuyoshi Tanaka, the focus of the game's design was a battle system which allowed a player to control weapons in new, \"stylish\" ways. This coincided with the design of a new type of in-game camera which kept the character in focus, avoiding disorientation in crowded battle scenes. \"Devil May Cry 2\"s difficulty was reduced for greater acceptance in the Japanese market, but this move cost the game support elsewhere. To remedy this, the Japanese release of \"Devil May Cry 3\" had a lower degree of difficulty than the North American and European releases and Dante was a younger, more arrogant character than he was in the previous games. Reuben Langdon provided the character's voice and motion capture. Although he was directed in Dante's portrayal, Langdon (confused by staff suggestions) played his own version of the character.\n\nCapcom promoted \"Devil May Cry 3\"s release with a multimillion-dollar television campaign and extensive advertising in video-game magazines; both emphasized the game's plot and number of fighting styles. The company produced a second, \"special\" edition, released in North America on January 24, 2006. A Microsoft Windows version, with minor graphics changes, was developed by SourceNext; it was released by Ubisoft on June 28, 2006 in Europe and October 16, 2006 in North America. The Devil Trigger versions of Dante and Vergil were designed by Atlus' Kazuma Kaneko, who previously collaborated on \"\", \"\" and \"\".\n\n\"Devil May Cry 3: Dante's Awakening\" was first released in Japan on February 17, 2005 for the PlayStation 2. It was followed by releases in North America and elsewhere in the world in 2005. It was a commercial success, and sold 1.3 million copies.\n\nAfter \"Devil May Cry 3\"s release Capcom introduced merchandise based on the game, including a manga (written by Suguro Chayamachi and published by Tokyopop in North America) and a Dante action figure manufactured by Revoltech. A 2006 sourcebook, \"Devil May Cry 3 Material Archive - Note of Naught\", featured previously unreleased production and CG artwork, storyboards and a UMD video disc for the PSP with trailers and videos (region 2 only). A three-disc \"Devil May Cry 3\" soundtrack was released on March 31, 2005 (shortly after the game's release), produced by Tetsuya Shibata and Kento Hasegawa with lyrics and vocals by Shawn McPherson.\n\nAt the 2005 Tokyo Game Show, Capcom announced a special edition of \"Devil May Cry 3\" with gameplay changes and additional content. The special edition was released on January 24, 2006 as part of the PlayStation 2 greatest-hits collection, and it was later confirmed that the PlayStation 2 version of the game would be released in Europe. \"Devil May Cry 3 Special Edition\" went on to sell 1 million units.\n\nMost notable additions to the game are, Dante's twin brother Vergil, who is now playable. Other changes included an additional survival mode, \"Bloody Palace\", with 9,999 levels; a Jester fight early in the game, with optional fights later; a \"Turbo Mode\", increasing game speed by 20 percent; an easier GOLD mode\"continue\" feature, allowing a player to revive a character or restart a lost fight, and rebalanced difficulty. Vergil's gameplay differed from Dante's; although Dante was weaker than Vergil in terms of skills and combos, he was easier to control. Because of the game's space limitations, not all of Vergil's moves were included in the special edition.\n\nVergil has one style, \"Dark Slayer\" (similar to Dante's \"Trickster\" style), with evasive maneuvers which can be leveled-up twice like Dante's four styles. He has three weapons: a katana known as Yamato, Beowulf gauntlets and greaves and the Force Edge broadsword. Vergil has two ranges of attack: \"Summoned Swords\" (creating magical swords for a variety of effects) and \"Judgment Cut\" (creating spheres of force). The new boss is Jester, a character encountered several times in first-edition cutscenes but not fought. In \"Devil May Cry 3: Special Edition\", he is a boss who may be fought three times.\n\nOn February 1, 2006, Ubisoft announced that they would be releasing a Microsoft Windows version of the game developed by SourceNext. The European PC version was the first one released (before the special-edition PlayStation 2 version in that region), on June 28, 2006. The Japanese version was released two days later, and the North American version on October 16. \n\n\"Devil May Cry 3: Special Edition\" was re-released in the \"Devil May Cry HD Collection\" for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 (with \"Devil May Cry\" and \"Devil May Cry 2\") on April 3, 2012.\n\nThe review aggregator website Metacritic gave the \"Special Edition\" on PlayStation 2 an 87 out of 100. It was included on \"Game Informer\" list of the top 50 games of 2005, and the special edition received a \"Game of the Month\" award. In 2010 IGN ranked it 18th on its list of the top 100 PlayStation 2 games, and a \"GamePro\" retrospective that year rated it the 28th-best game for the PS2.\n\nReviews typically praised the game for avoiding its predecessor's mistakes and for customization options, gameplay, combat engine and the musical score despite the contradicting plot lines and character arcs. The style-based combat engine was considered to produce fighting sequences superior to games such as \"Ninja Gaiden\" and \"\", and the camera and controls were praised. \"Devil May Cry 3\" was included in the 2010 book, \"1001 Video Games You Must Play Before You Die\".\n\nThe North American high level of difficulty in the non-special edition was criticized in otherwise-positive reviews. Critics disagreed with Capcom's decision to make the Japanese version's \"hard\" mode the North American \"normal\" mode, and The European version of Devil May Cry 3 had the same normal mode as the Japanese version, but maintained the yellow orb continue system of the North American version. \n\nThe PC version was considered vastly inferior to the PlayStation 2 version due to the poor porting process. Issues included its game engine (thought rough and underpowered), its controls and the inability to save the game and exit, a feature of most PC games. Jeremy Dunham of IGN gave the PC version a score of 5.8 out of 10 (compared to the PS2 version's 9.6), citing its \"awful performance\" and \"craptacular controls\".\n\nThe special-edition PlayStation 2 release ranked ninth on GameSpy's 2006 \"Game of the Year\" list; it was commended for recalibrating its difficulty, a survival mode known as \"Bloody Palace\" and making Vergil a playable character. Play as Vergil was cited for the character's difference from Dante, although the reuse of Dante's bosses and the lack of cutscenes was criticized. \n\n"}
{"id": "23910461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23910461", "title": "Earth Quest Adventures", "text": "Earth Quest Adventures\n\nEarth Quest Adventures was a planned resort located in New Caney, Texas, approximately north of Houston. Contour Entertainment is the resort's master planner and lead designer. The planned resort was to include a theme park as well as a water park, hotel, conference center, retail and office developments. The size of the theme park was reported to be on opening. The first phase was planned to begin in 2008.\n\nThe creator and founder of the park, dinosaur expert and author \"Dino\" Don Lessem, described it as a $500 million project with about 50 rides, including being inside a volcano, an ice cave, as well as coasters, and technologies that hadn’t been used before. On November 17, 2010, Earth Quest was redesigned to cut the cost from $500 million to $300 million and to add construction phases. These changes were being made to secure and satisfy the project's investors.According to the official Contour Entertainment website, the first phase of the project was to premiere in late 2012 or early 2013. In 2011, the company that owned the land filed for bankruptcy, and \"no construction had begun\" on the park. Contour Entertainment has not repurchased the land for the park that was lost in bankruptcy. It was to be repurchased by December 15, 2013, but the date has passed.\n\n"}
{"id": "10786913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10786913", "title": "Encyclopedia of Domestic Animation", "text": "Encyclopedia of Domestic Animation\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Domestic Animation (; transliterated \"Entsiklopediya otechestvennoy multiplikatsiyi\") is a collection of biographies and filmographies of the masters of Russian and Soviet animation. It was released at the 12th Open Russian Festival of Animated Film in March 2007, and its general release happened on March 11. It is the first attempt at recording the complete history of Russian and Soviet animation.\n\nThe encyclopedia was written by Sergey Kapkov and compiled with the help of several journalists and editors over the course of a few years. A huge amount of information was gathered from interviews with living members of the profession. This was partly out of necessity because of the destruction of some archives in the post-Soviet period, notably that of Soyuzmultfilm. Letters with requests for help were sent out to all of the former Soviet republics, though in some countries such as Estonia and Georgia they were totally ignored. Because so much information was dependent on oral sources, it was decided not to call it an academic edition. Kapkov said of the book, \"we are not insured from some possible mistakes\".\n\nThe book contains 1050 biographies (each of which contains an exhaustive filmography) of people involved in animation of all sorts of different professions: directors, artists, animators, writers, camera operators, editors, composers, voice actors and critics. It covers the historical period from 1912, when Ladislas Starevich made the first Russian animated film with insect skeletons, to the present day. The introduction, which summarizes this whole history, was written by Larisa Malyukova.\n\nUpon the book's release, many animators (especially from former Soviet republics) contacted the authors and provided additional information about themselves and their colleagues, as well as some factual corrections. Because of this and the book's unexpected success at the book fair \"Books of Russia\" («Книги России»), future updated editions are planned.\n\n"}
{"id": "18155765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18155765", "title": "Ethnovideography", "text": "Ethnovideography\n\nEthnovideography is a methodology of using video in the study of peoples, communities, groups or sub-groups. It espouses the use of video to document reality instead of \"creating\" realities. Hence, ethnovideographic presentations are unscripted. Narrations, background music, sound effects and special effects are not employed. The use of artificial lighting, obtrusive hardware, production crews and all but the simplest camera technique are discouraged. \n\nAlthough originally experimented upon by the Los Baños science community in the Philippines in the early 1990s as adjuncts to environmental impact assessments (EIAs), studies of indigenous knowledge systems and documentation of agricultural best practice, it traces its roots in the cinéma vérité movement of the 1950s and 1960s, the difference being its emphasis on small format or digital format video and its adoption of extra-sociological subjects. Being a methodology, ethnovideography is theory-based and adopts a set of procedures or protocols.\n\nThe earliest mention of ethnovideography in current literature comes from an Asian Development Bank project document written by a team of environmental consultants headed by Sylvia Guerrero, former Dean of the University of the Philippines College of Social Work and Community Development. Guerrero et al. (1992) defined ethnovideography as:\n\n\"...a research procedure developed at the UPLB Institute of Development Communication, which makes use of small-format video-generated non-alphanumeric data for social analysis. This procedure entails video documentation of five types of subjects: people, places, processes, events and social problems...\" \n\nCredited for coining the term ethnovideography as well as its development as a methodology, Alexander Flor considers it more than a research procedure but a knowledge management system and a form of development intervention as well. Flor was a professor of development communication at the University of the Philippines Los Banos who underwent a Fulbright-PAEF post-doctoral tour in the US in 1989. The tour included a summer at the USC Center for Visual Anthropology, wherein exposure to the use of video in urban anthropology contributed to his early constructs on ethnovideography. Other influences include Professor Alain Martenot who mentored Flor on Direct Cinema technique under a French Foreign Ministry grant. His early work on ethnovideography was sponsored by the Users' Perspectives with Agricultural and Rural Development (UPWARD) facility of the Lima-based International Potato Center. Succeeding research were conducted mostly by development communication graduate students, e.g. Bandara, Hardono, and Maya. Recently, ethnovideographic studies have been uploaded to YouTube.\n\nIn 2002, the book Ethnovideography: Video Based Indigenous Knowledge Systems was co-published by SEAMEO-SEARCA and CIP-UPWARD.\n\n"}
{"id": "2436901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2436901", "title": "Factotum (film)", "text": "Factotum (film)\n\nFactotum is a 2005 French-Norwegian drama film co-written and directed by Bent Hamer, adapted from the 1975 novel of the same name by Charles Bukowski. It stars Matt Dillon as Bukowski’s alter ego, Henry Chinaski. Although events in the book take place in Los Angeles in the 1940s, the film has a contemporary setting.\n\nHenry 'Hank' Chinaski (Matt Dillon) is working toward becoming a writer while struggling with alcoholism and holding various menial jobs. The film follows Chinaski as he works at, and gets fired from, various jobs, which include cleaning a massive sculpture, delivering ice, working at a pickle factory, and in a bicycle shop. In the course of sampling the smorgasbord of short-lived occupations, he meets up with assorted eccentric, frequently alcoholic characters.\n\nThe first woman Chinaski meets in a bar becomes his most consistent companion throughout the film. Jan (Lili Taylor), like Chinaski, is an alcoholic. He moves in and becomes her lover and drinking partner. They co-exist comfortably in languid squalor until Chinaski becomes upset after an altercation where he beats a wealthy man at the racing track who refuses to give up his seat. Initially polite, Chinaski assaults the man after Jan challenges his behavior. Soon after, Chinaski leaves Jan.\n\nUnemployed again and scoring his next drink, Hank meets another female barfly, Laura (Marisa Tomei), who feels sorry for Chinaski and helps him procure alcohol with the help of her wealthy \"sugar daddy\" Pierre, an eccentric older man. After a strange misadventure on Pierre's boat, Chinaski briefly returns to Jan, who is now working as a chambermaid at a hotel. A pivotal scene occurs with Jan after Chinaski discovers that he has caught a case of the \"crabs\" from her. Chinaski gains work but quickly loses his job after deciding to drink instead of completing cleaning a large statue.\n\nChinaski and Jan again break up after realizing their relationship has become boring and predictable and that they no longer really need each other. Jan moves in with a wealthy man who was the person assaulted before by Chinaski. By the film's end Chinaski finds that he is most comfortable being alone with just his alcohol and his writing to keep him company. In the final scene Chinaski justifies his lifestyle. While drinking, and watching a topless pole dancer, he describes the costs, persistence needed, and rewards of writing. In voiceover he says, \"If you’re going to try, go all the way. Otherwise, don’t even start. This could mean losing girlfriends, wives, relatives and maybe even your mind... You will be alone with the gods, and the nights will flame with fire. You will ride life straight to perfect laughter. It’s the only good fight there is.\"\n\n\nThe film is principally a French-Norwegian co-production, although with an American cast. It was released in Norway in 2005 and distributed in the U.S. by IFC Films in 2006. It was released on DVD in the U.S. on 26 December 2006.\n\nBukowski's picaresque novel, also titled \"Factotum\", was published in 1975. The book and the film both center on the character of Henry Chinaski, Bukowski’s alter ego, who appears in much of his fiction. Although events in the book take place in Los Angeles in the 1940s, the film has a contemporary setting, and was shot in Minneapolis.\n\nThe script also makes use of Bukowski's poems published in \"What Matters Is How Well You Walk Through the Fire\" and \"The Days Run Aways Like Horses Over the Hill\", and some of Bukowski's notebook entries published in \"The Captain Is Out to Lunch and the Sailors Have Taken Over the Ship\". For example, Matt Dillon reads the poem \"Roll The Dice\" (from \"What Matters Is How Well You Walk Through the Fire\") in a voiceover at the end of the film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3123005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3123005", "title": "First Rain", "text": "First Rain\n\nFirst Rain is an annual event held at the University of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC) which began at Porter College. It is also known as the Naked Run. During the first rainfall of the school year, students run naked through the campus, generally starting at Porter College.\n\nFirst Rain started in fall of 1989, following the weeks of the Loma Prieta earthquake, which hit only 10 miles from the campus and was a frightening event for the students of this university. Beginning at Porter College, they proceeded to walk across the length of the UCSC campus naked. This was the beginning of the tradition of First Rain. The First Rain began because students were afraid to sleep inside the Porter College dorms after the earthquake. The Porter students supported each other in a large outdoor sleepover. In a community game of dares, they dared each other to run around naked. Although some students slept outside in the quad the first night following the earthquake, the dorms were quite safe, and students moved back in almost immediately.\n\nCirca 2007, First Rain's prerequisite formation rules were formed in order to give more students the chance to run:\nHistorically however, First Rain runs did not have prerequisites to be met before beginning: these rules did not exist before the mid-2000s. From its beginning, the rules were very simple: as soon as the first heavy rains of the year fell, students were to disrobe and run. \nAnd in the recent years of the severe California drought, these relatively new rules for First Rain became more difficult to maintain, inspiring talks among the student body as to what makes a \"real\" First Rain.\n\nAiming to make this event a yearly tradition as it is at other universities, the students decided on running during the first rain of every school year (since other events, like the first school day or first snow had already been taken by other universities).\nThe First Rain tradition has expanded into a more organized event with the addition of the rules. Beginning spontaneously, the students group in the Porter quad and then run from college to college and gather more people as they pass.\n\nAlthough not a sanctioned event, the campus safety officers and campus police rarely make arrests and appear mainly to assure the safety of the night runners and to discourage them from damaging school property.\n\nIt is highly discouraged and against the spirit of the run to take photographs of the runners that may violate their privacy.\n"}
{"id": "2317340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2317340", "title": "Friday the 13th Part III", "text": "Friday the 13th Part III\n\nFriday the 13th Part III (also known as Friday the 13th Part 3: 3D) is a 1982 American slasher film directed by Steve Miner and produced by Frank Mancuso Jr.. It is the third installment in the \"Friday the 13th\" film series, and stars Dana Kimmell, Richard Brooker, Paul Kratka, Larry Zerner, and Tracie Savage. Set after the events of \"Friday the 13th Part 2\", the plot concerns a teenage girl and her friends on vacation at a house on Crystal Lake, where a wounded Jason Voorhees has taken refuge. The film marks the debut of antagonist Jason Voorhees wearing his signature hockey mask, which has become a trademark of both the character and the franchise, as well as an icon in American cinema and horror films in general. \n\nOriginally, the story was supposed to focus on Ginny Field, who checked herself into a mental institution after her traumatic battle with Jason Voorhees in the previous film. The film would have been similar to \"Halloween II\" (1981), with Jason tracking down Ginny in the mental hospital, but the concept was abandoned when Amy Steel declined to reprise her role.\n\n\"Friday the 13th Part III\" was originally released in 3D amongst other horror films such as \"Jaws 3-D\" and \"Amityville 3-D\", and is the only film in the series to be released in 3-D. The film was intended to end the series as a trilogy, however the film did not include a moniker in its title to indicate it as such. The film was theatrically released on August 13, 1982, grossing over $36.6 million at the US box office on a budget of $2.3 million despite negative reviews. The film was the first to remove \"\" from the number-one box office spot and became the second highest-grossing horror film of 1982, behind \"Poltergeist\". It has the third most attendance of any film in the \"Friday the 13th\" series, with approximately 11,762,400 tickets sold during its initial run.\n\nFollowing the events of the previous film, a badly injured and unmasked Jason Voorhees goes to a lakefront store for a change of clothes. While there, he murders the store owners. Harold is killed with a meat cleaver slammed into his chest, and his wife Edna is impaled through the back of the head with a knitting needle. Meanwhile, Chris Higgins and her friends travel to Higgins Haven, her old home on Crystal Lake, to spend the weekend. The gang includes pregnant Debbie, her boyfriend Andy, prankster Shelly, his blind date Vera (who does not reciprocate his feelings) and stoners Chuck and Chili. After running into a man named Abel, who warns them to turn back, the gang meets Chris' boyfriend Rick at their destination.\n\nAt a convenience store, Shelly and Vera get into a confrontation with bikers Ali, Fox, and Loco. Shelly gets in the car and knocks down their motorcycles, impressing Vera. Later, the bikers show up at Higgins Haven, where they take the gas out of the van and attempt to burn the barn down to get even. Jason, who has been hiding in the barn, murders Fox and Loco with a pitchfork before beating Ali unconscious with a pipe wrench. That night, Chris and Rick head out into the woods. Chris tells Rick the main reason she returned is to confront her fears, and she explains about how she was attacked by a deformed man two years earlier, causing her to leave Crystal Lake in order to escape the trauma. \n\nBack at Higgins Haven, Shelly scares Vera with a hockey mask and then wanders into the barn, where Jason slashes his throat. Taking his mask to conceal his face, Jason proceeds to murder the rest of the group. Vera retrieves Shelly's wallet from under the dock and is shot in the eye with a speargun. Jason enters the house and bisects a hand-standing Andy with a machete. Debbie finishes her shower and rests on a hammock, where Jason thrusts a knife through her chest from beneath. When the power goes out in the house, Chuck goes downstairs to the basement only for Jason to hurl him into the fuse box, electrocuting him. Chili is then impaled with a hot fire poker.\n\nWhen Rick's car dies, Chris and Rick are forced to walk back to the house to find it in disarray. Rick steps outside to search the grounds, but Jason grabs him and crushes his skull with his bare hands. Jason then confronts Chris, who narrowly escapes the house and tries to flee in her van. The van breaks down and Chris makes her way to the barn to hide, but Jason attacks her again. Inside the barn, Chris strikes Jason over the head with a shovel, and hangs him. He remains conscious and unmasks himself temporarily to free himself from the noose, where Chris recognizes him as the man who attacked her two years ago. A revived Ali tries to attack Jason, but he is quickly dispatched. The distraction allows Chris to strike Jason in the head with an axe. Jason staggers momentarily towards her before finally collapsing. Exhausted, Chris pushes a canoe out into the lake and falls asleep.\n\nChris has a nightmare of an unmasked Jason running towards her from the house before disappearing, which then turns into the decomposing body of Pamela Voorhees, with her head attached, emerging from the lake to pull her in. The following morning, the police arrive and escort a traumatized Chris from Higgins Haven. Jason's body is shown to still be lying in the barn as the lake is shown at peace once again.\n\nThe film scholar Jim Harper has noted \"Friday the 13th Part III\" for its final girl character, Chris, suffering from childhood trauma resulting from sexual assault, which leaves her unable to engage in intimate relationships, although there is no undisputed evidence of what has really happened to her. In the film, Chris' trauma stems from an attack she survived from Jason Voorhees, which leaves her \"mentally scarred.\" According to Jim Harper's interpretation, in comparison to the final girl characters in other contemporaneous slasher films such as \"Halloween\" (1978) or \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" (1984), Chris' failure to engage in sexual relations is a function of trauma as opposed to \"repress[ion] or dysfunct[ion].\"\n\nInitially, one of the earlier drafts for \"Part III\" was Ginny (Amy Steel) from the previous film being sent to a psychiatric hospital and confined there. Suffering from the events of \"Part 2\", she eventually finds out that Jason Voorhees survived from his wound and tracks her down to the hospital, murdering the staff and other patients at the hospital. At the time, Steel turned down the role due to her involvement in other projects, resulting in significant script changes. Screenwriter Ron Kurz, who had written \"Part II\", was offered to write the screenplay, but also turned the project down. Husband-and-wife screenwriting duo Martin Kitrosser and Carol Watson instead were hired to write the screenplay for \"Part III\", completing the first draft. Paramount subsequently brought in Petru Popescu to alter the screenplay and make it \"more sinister and menacing.\" Though the final filmed version of the script contained significant contributions from Popescu, he remained uncredited.\n\nThe script for \"Part III\" called for Jason to wear a mask to cover his face, having worn a bag over his head in \"Part 2\"; this mask would become a trademark for the character, and one instantly recognizable in popular culture in the years to come.\n\nScreenwriter Popescu said casting was based on looks rather than talent, and recalled that his vision of the characters was at significant odds with the cast chosen by director Steve Miner. Dana Kimmel was cast in the lead role of Chris Higgins after Miner had become aware of her involvement in \"Sweet Sixteen\", another slasher film. Tracie Savage, who had previously worked as a child actor, was offered the role through her agent. Larry Zerner was discovered by casting directors while walking along a street, and was offered the role of Shelly. For the role of Jason Voorhees, Miner cast British stuntman Richard Brooker.\n\nGeorgetown Productions, who had produced the previous two installments in the \"Friday the 13th\" series, was initially involved in the pre-production of \"Part III\", agreeing with distributor Paramount Pictures to shoot the film with 3-D cameras, making it the first Paramount film produced in 3-D since \"Jivaro (film)\" in 1954. Paramount leased two 3-Depix cameras from the photography company Marks Polarized Corporation to shoot the film. Simultaneously, Paramount executive Al Lo Presti was researching current 3-D camera technology with the intention of developing a 3-D lens to be owned and used exclusively by Paramount. \n\nAccording to a September 1982 issue of \"Forbes\" magazine, Sirius II Corp. owner Gale Weaver visited the set of \"Friday the 13th Part III\", reportedly over producer Frank Mancuso, Jr.'s worries that faulty projection lenses at cinemas would prevent the film from having a wide theatrical release. Over a two-week period, Weaver developed a prototype lens that would be adaptable to \"almost all theater projectors\"; Paramount subsequently awarded Sirius II Corp. $1 million to manufacture the lenses, which would be used in projection-- to the exclusion of Marks projection lenses. Marks Polarized Corporation subsequently filed a $25 million lawsuit against Paramount, alleging that the studio was \"monopolizing the marketing of 3-D exhibition materials, as well as providing deductions to theaters choosing to lease projection lenses directly from Paramount.\" Paramount ultimately agreed to credit Marks Polarized Corporation onscreen with the statement: \"Filmed utilizing the Marks 3-Depix® Converter,\" but the company was denied an injunction that would have required Paramount to change its equipment.\n\"Friday the 13th Part III\" was shot on location at the Valuzet Movie Ranch in Saugus, California. The house, barn, and lake featured in the film were all custom-built. The house remained on the ranch lot until it burnt down in 2012. Additional photography for the film's grocery store scenes took place at a small market in Green Valley, California. Because of the newness of the 3-D camera lenses, the shooting process was extensive, with the crew sometimes taking hours to set up a shot, and the cast performing multiple takes of scenes in order for the cinematographer to properly capture the 3-D effects. \n\nThe decision to dress Jason Voorhees in his now-signature hockey mask occurred during a lighting check on set; the film's 3-D effects supervisor Martin Sadoff was a hockey fan, and supplied a Detroit Red Wings goaltender mask to Miner. Miner loved the mask, but during test shots found it was too small. Using a technique called VacuForm, makeup effects director Doug White enlarged the mask and created a new mold to work with. After White finished the molds, art director Terry Ballard placed new red triangles on the mask to give it a unique appearance. Holes were also punched into the mask, and the markings were altered, making it different from Madoff's original template. There were two prosthetic face masks created for Richard Brooker to wear underneath the hockey mask. One mask was composed of approximately 11 different appliances, and took about six hours to apply to Brooker's face; this mask was used for scenes where the hockey mask was removed. In the scenes where the hockey mask is over the face, a simple head mask was created. This one piece mask would simply slip on over Brooker's head, exposing his face but not the rest of his head.\n\nThe film's music was composed by Harry Manfredini, who previously composed the scores of the series' first two installments. A disco theme was also included in the film, co-written by Manfredini and Michael Zager, who shared a credit with a fictional band called Hot Ice. The theme was included on releases of the film's soundtrack, and according to Manfredini, became popular at disco and gay clubs at the time.\n\nUpon the release of the third film in 1982, Gramavision Records released a LP album of selected pieces of Manfredini's scores from the first three \"Friday the 13th\" films. On January 13, 2012, La-La Land Records released a limited edition 6-CD boxset containing Manfredini's scores from the first six films. It sold out in less than 24 hours.\n\n\"Friday the 13th Part III\" was released theatrically in the United States on Friday, August 13, 1982. It was the first-ever 3-D film to receive a wide domestic release, opening on 1,079 screens. Of these screens, 813 were 3-D capable, while the remainder consisted of drive-in theaters which were unable to accommodate the format. In order to allow non-3-D-capable theaters to screen the film, Paramount completed a seven-week-long conversion process that cost $2 million, \"an amount equal to the picture’s entire negative cost.\" It was also the first film in the series to be presented in Dolby Stereo upon its theatrical release.\n\nThe film grossed $9,406,522 its opening weekend and broke the horror opening record held by the original \"Friday the 13th\" (1980). Domestically, the film made a grand total of $36,690,067. It placed number 21 on the list of the top-grossing films of 1982, facing strong competition from other high-profile horror releases such as \"Poltergeist\", \"Creepshow\", \"The Thing\", \"\", \"Visiting Hours\", \"\", \"Silent Rage\", \"The Beast Within\", \"Cat People\" and \"Venom\". As of 2014, it still stands as the fourth highest-grossing film in the \"Friday the 13th\" series and the third best selling in ticket sales; with approximately 11,762,400 tickets sold, it is surpassed only by the 1980 original with 14,778,700 tickets and Freddy vs. Jason with 13,701,900 tickets). The film also stands as the tenth highest-grossing R-rated film of 1982, the second-highest grossing horror film of 1982, the sixth largest box office opening of 1982, and adjusted for inflation it is the ninth highest-grossing slasher film of all time.\n\n\"Friday the 13th Part III\" received generally negative reviews from critics upon its theatrical release. The review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 12% of 25 film critics have given the film a positive review; the average rating is 3.6 out of 10.\n\nWriting for the \"Los Angeles Times\", Linda Gross noted: \"Ironically, \"Friday the 13th Part 3\" is so terrible that \"Friday the 13th Part 1\" and \"Friday the 13th Part 2\" don't seem so bad.\" Janet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" stated that it \"would be a little better than \"Part I\" or \"Part II\" even without 3-D\". In continuing to compare the film to its predecessors, Maslin commented that \"it's a little more adept at teasing the audience.\" Richard Schickel of \"Time\" magazine wrote: \"Maybe all sequels should be made in 3-D... It is all so gruesome that horror turns to humor and fun comes from the appreciation of being cleverly conned by Steve Miner. The way the eyeball of one of Jason's victims pops out of his skull and seems to sail over the audience's head is alone worth buying a ticket and putting on funny glasses.\" Gene Siskel praised the film's \"impressive\" 3-D effects, particularly in the opening credits, also noting its slowburn approach, as the \"heavy-duty slaughter doesn't come until one hour into the film,\" but criticized it for \"lingering over the impending deaths the young women, who are stalked by the camera so we find ourselves in the revolting position of stalking them too.\"\n\nThe entertainment-trade magazine \"Variety\" provided a general consensus stating, \"\"Friday the 13th\" was dreadful and took in more than $17 million. \"Friday the 13th Part 2\" was just as bad and took in more than $10 million. \"Friday the 13th Part 3\" is terrible, too.\" The magazine added, \"There are some dandy 3-D sequences, however, of a yo-yo going up and down and popcorn popping.\" Similarly, \"TV Guide\" awarded the film one out of five stars, noting that it \"exploits precisely the same formula plot as its predecessors, though the gore is a bit deemphasized, with the special-effects crew concentrating on the nicely done 3-D depth work for a change. It's still trash, however, and also made a ridiculous amount of money.\"\n\nIn a retrospective, Scott Meslow of \"The Week\" called it \"an under-sung camp classic — cornier and goofier than either of its predecessors\". \n\nThe film has been noted by critics as one of the most violent of the series, with a total of fourteen deaths. Jason's mask in this film became the molded appearance of Jason in \"\" and in later installments. For his appearance in the film, Jason Voorhees was nominated for AFI's 100 Years...100 Heroes and Villains as one of the Top 50 Villains. Meslow cites the film's 3-D effects as paving the way for later horror films which also used the technique.\n\n\"Friday the 13th Part III\" was first made available on home video on VHS, Betamax, CED, and LaserDisc and later on DVD, with the film presented only in 2D form. There was also a VHD release for Japan (\"\" and \"\" would follow). The 3-D version of the film was eventually released as a part of the film's DVD \"Deluxe Edition\" on February 3, 2009. The \"Deluxe Edition\" and eventual Blu-ray release include both the 2D and 3-D versions of the film, as well as two pairs of cyan and red 3-D glasses designed to look like Jason's mask.\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\n\"Friday the 13th Part III\" was followed by \"\" (1984). Additionally, a novelization of the film, written by Michael Avallone, was published in 1982 by Nordon Publications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28343296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28343296", "title": "Hachioji Velodrome", "text": "Hachioji Velodrome\n\n"}
{"id": "15108621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15108621", "title": "Herb Zarrow", "text": "Herb Zarrow\n\nHerb Zarrow (November 4, 1925 – May 11, 2008) was an American magician influential in the profession for his inventions of unique sleight of hand and card tricks. His skills were held in the highest regard in professional magicians' circles.\n\nZarrow's available biographical information is limited at best; a literature search does not reveal a lengthy biography of the man. However, he does appear in a DVD series about his card magic, in the magic literature, including David Ben's book \"Zarrow: A Lifetime of Magic\".\n\nZarrow appeared on the cover of April, 2001 issue of \"The Linking Ring\" after being honored at the 2001 annual Fechter's Finger flicking Frolic convention of close up magicians for a lifetime of contributions and achievements. \"The Linking Ring\" article contains some biographical information.\nAn auction of Zarrow's collection, including his extensive library and associated ephemera, was conducted by Potter & Potter Auctions on October 23, 2010.\n\n\nOver the years he has received many honors:\n"}
{"id": "30073505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30073505", "title": "Keistuolių Teatras", "text": "Keistuolių Teatras\n\nKeistuolių Teatras (\"Weirdos' Theatre\", \"Theatre of Eccentric Men\") is a Lithuanian theatre troupe. It was founded in 1989 by actors Ilona Balsytė, Aidas Giniotis and Sigutis Jačėnas and theatre director Romualdas Vikšraitis. The theatre produces plays and music for general public and children.\n\nIn 1999 the theatre became a member of ASSITEJ.\n\nIn 20 years (1989–2009) the theatre released 50 plays, 8 videofilms, 11 audiocassetes and 10 CDs.\n\nIn 2004 it was entered into the \"Book of Lithuanian Records\" (\"Lietuvos rekordų knyga\") as the longest time acting private theatre and the theatre with most performances in a year (217).\n"}
{"id": "38862545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38862545", "title": "La Bella Ingeborg", "text": "La Bella Ingeborg\n\nLa Bella Ingeborg (Valborg Elisabeth Gröning, but often referred to as Bojan), (Gävle 3 April 1890 - 24 December 1970) was a Swedish circus princess, introduced as \"The Prodigy Child\".\n\nIngeborg was born into poverty and put up for adoption at the age of four by circus artists Julia Andersson and Knut Lindberg. At age 15, she married a circus clown, Charles Bazola. They travelled around the world performing with the circus Fortuna & Bazola. \n\nAfter Ingeborg gave birth to a daughter, Héléne Bazola, the couple moved back to Gävle. Ingeborg delivered newspapers for a living before she died in 1970. She is buried at the cemetery in Gävle, in a grave with other circus artists.\n"}
{"id": "46372362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46372362", "title": "Mark Wade (Ventriloquist)", "text": "Mark Wade (Ventriloquist)\n\nMark Wade is \"America's Foremost Children's Ventriloquist\". He has performed and lectured internationally on the subject, and was named \"Ventriloquist Of The Year\" in 1980. He is the Executive Director of the Vent Haven International Ventriloquists' ConVENTion, and is the Executive Director of Maher Ventriloquist Studios, the oldest established ventriloquist studio that teaches the art of ventriloquism. Along with Ken Groves and Tom Crowl Mark started the IVS (International Ventriloquist Society) in 2013. He also sits on the Board of Advisors for the Vent Haven Ventriloquist Museum, a post he has had for many years.\n\nMark is the author of \"Kidshow Ventriloquism\", the best selling book on the subject in the world, and has written a companion book,\"Kidshow Ventriloquism Encore\". He also writes for numerous magazines (\"KidAbra Journal\" and \"Rubber Chicken\" magazine in the UK) and is a comedy writer as well. He has written many scripts for other performers.\n\nHe resides now in Florida with his wife Jody.\n\n"}
{"id": "549148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=549148", "title": "Max Miller (comedian)", "text": "Max Miller (comedian)\n\nThomas Henry Sargent (21 November 1894 – 7 May 1963), best known by his stage name Max Miller and also known as \"The Cheeky Chappie\", was an English comedian who was widely regarded as the greatest stand-up comedian of his generation. He made films, toured in revues and music hall, and sang and recorded songs, some of which he wrote. He was known for his flamboyant suits, his wicked charm, and his risqué jokes which often got him into trouble with the censors.\n\nMiller was born as Thomas Henry Sargent on 21 November 1894 in Hereford Street, Kemptown, Brighton, Sussex. He was the second child of James Sargent, a labourer and Alice (née West), a flower seller; Miller had three brothers and two sisters. His parents were poor and often unable to pay rent so were forced to move to other parts of the town. Owing to this, Miller frequently changed schools until he reached 12, when he left altogether. He tried various jobs, labouring, delivering milk, selling fish and chips, caddying at the Brighton and Hove Golf Course and finally trained to be a motor mechanic. As a youth he was nicknamed \"Swanky Sargent\".\n\nOn the outbreak of the war in 1914, Miller volunteered for the army. He joined the Royal Sussex Regiment and, after serving in France, was posted to India and a year later to Mesopotamia, where he was temporarily blinded for three days. This experience stayed with him all his life, and in later years he did much work to help the blind. During his time in the army, he started a troops’ concert party.\n\nDemobilized from the army, he found work to be in short supply. He had lost his mother to the 1918 flu pandemic. He had his sights on performing in London and obtained a booking in the Shoreditch Hall in 1919. He was not experienced enough for the type of venue and lasted only a week. Returning to Brighton he saw an advertisement for artists to join Jack Sheppard’s concert party in an alfresco theatre on Brighton beach. He applied and joined as a light comedian for the 1919 summer season. While with the concert party, he met his wife Frances Kathleen Marsh, who was a contralto in the group.\n\nKathleen Marsh came from a middle-class family whose parents came to Brighton from Dorset shortly before she was born in 1896. Her elder brother Ernest Marsh served as a Brighton alderman for 43 years and became mayor of the then town from 1949 to 1950.\n\nIn summer 1920 Harry toured nationwide in \"The Rogues\", a concert party. The following year Harry and Kathleen toured in a revue/musical called \"The Girl\". While in Plymouth they married at the parish church in Tormoham, Devon on 17 February 1921. As well as being a performer, Kathleen was an astute businesswoman and thereafter did much to develop her husband's career. She suggested that he should change his name to Max Miller. Later a press notice described Max as the Cheeky Chappie, and the nickname stuck.\n\nMax and Kathleen formed a double act for a while but it became obvious to her that Max was the stronger performer and that he would be better as a solo act.\n\nThrough the '20s, he was regularly touring in revues. In 1922 he was in a show presented by the Sydney Syndicate, \"There You Are Then\". In 1923 he toured with the Ernest Binn Arcadians. 1924 saw him joining a revue called \"Crisps\". But during that summer he returned to Jack Sheppard’s Concert Party on the Brighton seafront. In 1925 he continued in the revue \"Crisps\" and in November joined the cast of \"Ten to One On\" which starred Jimmy James. This show ran until February 1926 when he got work in variety or cine-variety, the latter a show half film and half live acts. In September he was booked in the Holborn Empire, his first engagement there, where he was spotted by impresario Tom Arnold who booked him to star in his next revue, \"Piccadilly\". It opened in Birmingham and toured the country. His co-star was the 21-year-old Florence Desmond. After that he was booked by Fred Karno to appear in \"The Show\" and in May joined a touring cabaret revue called \"XYZ\" to the end of the year. After a few weeks in variety, he was back in revue starring in Francis Laider’s \"Tipperary Tim\". This kept him busy until February 1929 when he appointed a new agent, Julius Darewski. This was a turning point in his career. In May he made his first appearance at the London Palladium in variety. He returned there in October and, in November, joined the cast of \"Fools in Paradise\" which took him to March 1930. This would be his last revue for some time.\n\nMiller much preferred to perform solo, and from 1930 onwards, he appeared in variety in various large theatres including the London Palladium and the Holborn Empire. In those days instant success was unheard of, and Miller, like any other performer, had to earn his fame through a long apprenticeship. In May 1931 he appeared in his first Royal Variety Performance. Radio broadcasts followed.\n\nIn 1932 he made his first recording, \"Confessions of a Cheeky Chappie\", on the Broadcast Twelve Records label. After this initial success, he was wooed by HMV and made a number of records for them. In 1953 he changed to Philips and then to Pye.\n\nMiller was given a cameo role in the film \"The Good Companions\". In it he played the part of a music publisher selling a song to a pianist, played by John Gielgud. Although he was not credited for his role, his three-minute debut was impressive, got him noticed and led to his making a further 13 films working up from small parts to starring roles. Considered his best film, \"Educated Evans\" (1936), which was based on an Edgar Wallace story and filmed by Warner Bros., has been lost. His last but one film was \"Hoots Mon!\" (1940). He played the part of a southern English comedian called Harry Hawkins. In the film there is a scene in which Harry Hawkins appears on the stage in a variety theatre. The act is Miller’s, and the sequence is the only one in existence giving us an idea of his stage act. It is invariably included in any documentary made about him.\n\nMiller’s act on a variety bill usually lasted between 20 and 30 minutes. It would begin with the orchestra playing his signature tune, \"Mary from the Dairy\". A spotlight aimed on the curtain by the wings would anticipate his appearance. There would be excitement in the audience. He would sometimes wait for up to 10 seconds until he appeared leading to resounding applause, walk to the microphone and just stand there in his costume, a gloriously colourful suit with plus-fours, a kipper tie, trilby and co-respondent shoes and wait for the laughter to begin.\n\nAlthough Miller's material was risqué, he never swore on stage and disapproved of those who did. He used double entendre and when telling a joke would often leave out the last word or words for the audience to complete.\n\nHis act would be punctuated by songs, sentimental songs like \"My Old Mum\" or comic songs such as \"Twin Sisters\". Sometimes he would accompany himself on guitar or entertain with a soft shoe shuffle. He wrote and co-wrote a number of songs.\n\nHe was very much a southern English comedian. He preferred being booked in theatres in London or the south, so he could return to his beloved Brighton after a show. But in 1932 he embarked on his only overseas tour, when he sailed to Cape Town to appear in Johannesburg and Pretoria, South Africa.\n\nAfter a number of years as a solo act in variety, he appeared in George Black’s wartime revue \"Haw Haw!\" at the Holborn Empire from December 1939 to July 1940. George Black’s next revue \"Apple Sauce\" opened in August 1940 at the Holborn Empire co-starring Vera Lynn. After the theatre was bombed, the show transferred to the London Palladium where it ran until November 1941. After that Miller was back touring in variety and broke all records as the highest paid variety artist, earning £1,025 in a single week at the Coventry Hippodrome in February, 1943.\n\nIn 1947, he topped the bill in \"Bernard Delfont presents International Variety\" at the London Casino. In his review of the show, Lionel Hale, theatre critic of the \"Daily Mail\", described Miller as the \"Gold of the music hall\".\n\nMiller appeared in three Royal Variety Performances (1931, 1937 and 1950). In the last he was annoyed that he was only given six minutes while the American comedian Jack Benny got 20 minutes, so he abandoned his script and went on for 12 minutes ending with riotous applause. But this had a devastating effect on the schedule. Val Parnell, the producer, was furious and told Miller that he would never work for him again. However, after 18 months of Miller touring in secondary theatres, he was invited back to the \"number ones\", the Moss Empires and returned in triumph to the London Palladium. This revitalised his career and with it came a new recording contract, this time with Philips. He was back on radio and appeared on television, but his television appearances were never a great success. The new medium did not suit his style; he needed the feedback only a live theatre audience could give him and the freedom to use his naughty material.\n\nMiller appeared regularly in all the large variety halls in and around London, the Hackney Empire, Chelsea Palace, Chiswick, Finsbury Park and Wood Green Empires, Metropolitan Music Hall and it was in the latter he recorded the LP, \"Max at the Met\" in 1957.\n\nIn 1958 Miller suffered a heart attack. After recovery he needed to take life easier. His last West End appearance took place at the Palace Theatre in April 1959 and the last ever in variety in Folkestone in December 1960. He continued to make records, his last in January 1963 with Lonnie Donegan. He died on 7 May 1963 in his home and was cremated in the Downs Crematorium, Brighton. A memorial tablet is mounted on a wall in the Garden of Remembrance. His wife Kathleen outlived him by nine years, dying in a Hove nursing home in 1972.\n\nWith dwindling work in variety, brought about by the increasing popularity of television, he commented, \"When I’m dead and gone, the game’s finished\".\n\nIt has frequently been suggested that John Osborne modelled the character Archie Rice in his play \"The Entertainer\" on Miller. John Osborne denied it and in his autobiography he wrote, \"This is not so. Archie was a man. Max was a god, a saloon-bar Priapus\".\n\nThe laws on censorship were strict during Miller's lifetime. Those responsible for censorship were the Lord Chamberlain in London and local watch committees in the provinces. Miller's material needed approval by those bodies but by using innuendo, leaving out the last word or words of a joke, he could get away with much risqué and saucy material. However, he never swore or told a 'dirty joke' on stage.\n\nIn one of his acts he would take from his pocket two books, one a white book and the other a blue book, explaining to the audience that these are joke books and asking them which the audience would like; the crowd almost always chose the blue book. The jokes in the ‘blue book’ were the naughty ones. For example:\nI went skating the other week with a young lady on ice and we’d been going around for quite a while and she kept on falling down.I said, “Have you hurt yourself?” She said, “No, I’m sorry to spoil your fun.” I said, “You’re not spoiling my fun. It’ll keep on ice.”\n\nOr he would leave the last word out for the audience to finish and blamed them if they laughed.\nWhen roses are red,\nThey’re ready for plucking.\nWhen a girl is sixteen,\nShe’s ready for … ’Ere \n\nHe would then say, \"I know exactly what you are saying to yourself, you’re wrong, I know what you’re saying. You wicked lot. You’re the sort of people that get me a bad name!\"\n\nIt was said that Miller was banned by the BBC twice, first in the 1930s and then in the 1950s. But these rumours only helped Miller's reputation as daring and naughty, and led to increased box office sales.\n\nMiller influenced many comedians during his lifetime and since. His jokes live on and are often told by other comedians. The late comedian Walter William Bygraves became known as \"Max Bygraves\" after his impersonation of Miller. Miller is also featured on the cover of the Beatles' \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\".\n\nThe biography, \"Max Miller the Cheeky Chappie\" by John M. East was published in 1977. A paperback version was issued in 1993 with additional material. Two paperbacks containing Miller's jokes have been published: \"The Max Miller Blue Book\" compiled by Barry Took and illustrated by cartoonist Trog (1975) and \"The Max Miller Appreciation Society's Blue Book\" compiled by members with a foreword by Roy Hudd (2001).\n\nSeveral radio and television documentaries have been produced including Gerald Scarfe’s \"The Girls Who Do\" (\"40 Minutes\", BBC, 1989) and \"\" (1994). \"Here's a Funny Thing\" a play featuring John Bardon by R.W. Shakespeare which had been staged at the Edinburgh Fringe and at the Fortune Theatre in London was broadcast on Channel Four in November 1982\n\nIn 1999 the Max Miller Appreciation Society was formed in Brighton. Its main purpose is to keep his memory alive. It has erected a bronze statue sculptured by Peter Webster in the Royal Pavilion Gardens, New Road, Brighton (unveiled 1 May 2005; re-sited August 2007) and mounted two blue plaques on his former homes on Ashcroft in Kingston Lane, Shoreham-by-Sea (2000) and at 160 Marine Parade, Brighton (2006). In 2009 the Society curated an exhibition devoted to Miller's life and career in Bardsley's Fish Restaurant, Baker Street, Brighton.\n\n\"He was renowned for his use of catchphrases, in performance\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26147340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26147340", "title": "Miss Earth Thailand", "text": "Miss Earth Thailand\n\nThis is a list of women who have represented Thailand at the Miss Earth pageant.\n\nThe current titleholder is Nirada Chetsadapriyakun who won 2nd Runner-up in \"Miss All Nations Thailand 2017\". She will represent Thailand at Miss Earth 2018.\n\nThe first ever Thai representative in Miss Earth was Victoria Wachholz who participated in Miss Earth 2001. In 2002, Bangkok Broadcasting & T.V. Co., Ltd. (Channel 7) was awarded the rights and conducted the Miss Thailand Universe pageant and sent the winner to Miss Universe 2002 while the 1st Runner-up to Miss Earth pageant. In 2004, Radchadawan Khampeng competed in Miss Earth 2004 and placed in the Top 8 and became Thailand's first semi-finalist in the Miss Earth pageant. \n\nThailand placed in five succeeding years with Jiraporn Sing-ieam who placed Top 8 in Miss Earth 2007 and won the Best National Costume award, Piyaporn Deejing placed in the Top 16 in Miss Earth 2008, Rujinan Phanseethum also placed in the Top 8 in the Miss Earth 2009 while Watsaporn Wattanakoon placed 2nd Runner-up \"(Miss Water)\" and won the Miss Photogenic award in Miss Earth 2010, and Niratcha Tungtisanont placed in the Top 16 in the Miss Earth 2011 pageant.\nIn 2012, Royal Thai Army Radio and Television Channel 5 was awarded the rights to host and changed name of the pageant. The pageant sent 1st Runner-up to compete at Miss Earth where it was represented by Waratthaya Wongchayaporn.\n\nIn 2017, (Channel 7) appointed Organizer M Group Co., Ltd. who organized Miss Chiangmai, as the national director of Miss Earth Thailand and sent Paweensuda Drouin (2nd Runner-up Miss Universe Thailand) in the Miss Earth 2017 and where she placed in the Top 8.\n\nIn 2013, Organizer IQ Co., Ltd. was awarded the rights to host Miss Earth Thailand pageant and sent a Thai representative to compete in Miss Earth. This came after the Miss Universe Thailand Organization lost its license from the Miss Earth Foundation. Punika Kulsoontornrut was crowned the first Miss Earth Thailand in November 2013 and placed as Miss Earth-Water or the second runner-up.\n\nIn 2014, Nawat Itsaragrisil, who owns Miss Grand Thailand, took over the license of Miss Earth. The second title of Miss Grand Thailand was designated as Miss Earth Thailand won by Sasi Sintawee. Itsaragrisil lost the MIss Earth Thailand franchise in 2015 and was awarded back to Bangkok Broadcasting & T.V. Co., Ltd. (Channel 7).\n\nIn 2018, ERM Marketing Co.,Ltd.,Thailand. (Thaimiss) appointed Nirada Chetsadapriyakun who won 2nd Runner-up in \"Miss All Nations Thailand 2017\" to represent Thailand at Miss Earth 2018 pageant.\n\nColor key\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "253430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253430", "title": "Multiverse (Magic: The Gathering)", "text": "Multiverse (Magic: The Gathering)\n\nThe Multiverse is the shared fictional universe depicted on \"\" cards, novels, comics, and other supplemental products. Though \"Magic\" is a strategy game, an intricate storyline underlies the cards released in each expansion. On the cards, elements of this multiverse are shown in the card art and through quotations and descriptions on the bottom of most cards (called flavor text). Novels and anthologies published by HarperPrism and Wizards of the Coast (WOTC), and the comic books published by Armada Comics expand upon the settings and characters hinted at on the cards. WOTC also publishes a weekly story (most often related to the plane explored in the current expansion set) in the Magic Fiction column, previously known as Official Magic Fiction and Uncharted Realms.\n\nIn the early days of the game, the name 'Dominia' was used to describe the story universe but, due to confusion with the name of the plane/planet where the central events of \"Magic\" occur (Dominaria), it fell into disuse and was replaced.\n\nThe Multiverse is a collection of planes (described somewhat like pocket universes) which are usually named after the primary planet contained within them. Travel between these planes is possible, and powerful beings known as Planeswalkers are capable of traversing between them.\n\nThe Blind Eternities is the term more commonly used to describe the space between the planes of reality. Filled with chaotic, raw energies such as Aether, Mana and temporal energy, it is a place where matter and life as known within the planes of reality cannot subsist. (The only exceptions are the Planeswalkers, who briefly pass physically through it when they \"walk\" between planes.) As such, not much is known or understood about the Blind Eternities. Unfathomable, reality-warping cosmic horrors known as the Eldrazi are said to be born there.\n\nAether (previously spelled Æther) is the main type of energy filling the blind eternities, although it can also appear in variable quantities within the planes. It is inextricably associated with magic within Magic's shared fictional universe and the use of the word in several Magic cards implies that casting magic involves channeling and manipulating Aether. Similarly, \"summoning\" the creatures around which combat and much of gameplay in Magic revolves is described as \"pulling (them) from the Aether\".\n\nThe majority of the \"Magic\" story was set on the plane of Dominaria prior to Mirrodin, encompassing long time periods each detailed in certain card sets or books. Dominaria is a unique nexus between all the other planes of the Multiverse. Occasionally, such as in Time Spiral, the storyline returns to it.\n\n\nThere are numerous other smaller plots and subplots that take place in Dominaria and on the many planes of the multiverse of Dominia as well as events after the invasion of Dominaria by the Phyrexians.\n\n\nArmada (Acclaim Comics):\nDark Horse:\n"}
{"id": "3498167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3498167", "title": "Nininbaori", "text": "Nininbaori\n\nThis type of skit is considered a staple of Japanese comedy, traditional and modern, and is commonly used as a part of comedy shows; both live stage performances and Owarai (television comedy).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "758041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=758041", "title": "Pancrase", "text": "Pancrase\n\nPancrase Inc. is a mixed martial arts promotion company founded in Japan in 1993 by professional wrestlers Masakatsu Funaki and Minoru Suzuki.\n\nThe name was based on \"pankration\", a fighting sport in the Ancient Olympic Games. Suzuki and Funaki practised catch wrestling. They based the promotion and its rules on professional wrestling. The promotion's champions were called \"King of Pancrase\".\n\nThe rules allowed closed-fisted punches, except to the head, and palm strikes to the head. A wrestler must break a submission hold when the opponent reaches the ropes, but a wrestler who claims a rope break loses a point. A wrestler who claims a specified number of rope breaks (between three and five) was disqualified. From 1998 to 2000, the promotion changed its rules to resemble other mixed martial arts promotions.\n\nPancrase participant Guy Mezger said that \"there was <nowiki>[</nowiki>\"sic\"<nowiki>]</nowiki> not very many works [predetermined outcomes]. Maybe 4 or 5 total and most of them were before I was fighting for them. I hate when people say that there was [\"sic\"] so many works in Pancrase, they truly do not know what they are talking about\".\n\nBeginning in 2007, \"Pancrase: Legends of Mixed Martial Arts\" aired weekly on ImaginAsian TV. The network folded in 2011.\n\nIn 2008, the Fight Network began airing Pancrase events in Canada and the U.K.\n\nIn 2015, Pancrase signed an exclusive, long-term deal to be streamed live and exclusively on UFC Fight Pass. Fight Pass also added all of Pancrase's historical fights to its library on a video-on-demand basis. \n\nIn 1993, Masakatsu Funaki, Minoru Suzuki, Ken Shamrock, Takaku Fuke, and others from the shoot-style Fujiwara Gumi wrestling promotion left the company, due to (mentor and promoter) Yoshiaki Fujiwara's decision to cooperate with the likes of Universal Lucha Libre and W*ING and favoring showmanship over in-ring work. As suggested by Karl Gotch, Pancrase was formed by Funaki, Suzuki and Fuke, and the promotion would focus on pure shoot-style wrestling with limited gimmicks and no predetermined outcomes.\n\nFunaki and Suzuki were students of wrestler Antonio Inoki. They were inspired by the 1976 Muhammad Ali vs. Antonio Inoki event that pit a boxer against a wrestler.\n\nOn May 16, 1993, they established World Pancrase Create Inc. (WPC) with the capital of 30,000,000 Japanese yen. Masami Ozaki was chosen for its Executive president at that time, and the head office was located in the district of Minamiazabu in Minato ward in Tokyo.\n\nOn September 21, 1993, Pancrase promoted their first event at Tokyo Bay NK Hall. All the matches were finished with knockout and submission.\n\nThe first King Of Pancrase Open Weight champion was Ken Shamrock (later becoming famous for his exploits in the Ultimate Fighting Championship), who had previous experience in the newborn UWF and Fujiwara Gumi. Over the years, Funaki and Suzuki held the title alongside other big names, such as Bas Rutten, Frank Shamrock and Guy Mezger.\n\nPancrase now recognizes King of Pancrase titles in the super heavyweight, heavyweight, light heavyweight, middleweight and welterweight divisions, and there are plans to award new lightweight and featherweight champions in the future. The open weight title was recently restored and is currently held by Josh Barnett, who formerly competed in PRIDE and the Ultimate Fighting Championship. Minoru Suzuki no longer competes for Pancrase, as he returned to regular professional wrestling in 2003 as a freelancer, but he primarily competes in New Japan Pro Wrestling.\n\nIn May 2008, \"Pancrase Inc.\" was established as a new management company for Pancrase, and WPC alienated Pancrase Inc. their all of business as on May 27, 2008. When Pancrase Inc. was established, Yasushi Sakamoto, a managing director of WPC, was installed as the Executive president.\n\nOn October 14, 2008, Pancrase Inc. moved its office to Nishi Ikebukuro in the ward of Toshima in Tokyo.\n\nIn September 2009, Pancrase Inc. moved its office from Nishi Ikebukuro to Aobadai in ward of Meguro in Tokyo, and moved again to Kameido in the ward of Koto.\n\nOn October 1, 2010, Ryo Kawamura, who was the current mixed martial artist was installed as the executive president. Yasushi Sakamoto, the former president, had become a managing director.\n\nKawamura held a press conference in Yokohama, Kanagawa on October 22, and explained about restructuring and announced that \"Commission Council\" had been established as a third party\n\nOn June 1, 2012, Pancrase announced that the promotion had been sold to Masakazu Sakai and his Smash organization, with Sakai taking over as the new president and his partner Yuji Shimada as the event producer of the promotion. As part of the reconstruction of Pancrase, the new owners intend to replace rings with cages, holding events to test the new format in 2013.\n\nPancrase 257 on March 30, 2014 was the last event where Pancrase used a ring and by Pancrase 258 on May 11, 2014, Pancrase adopted the Decagon or the ten-sided cage of their American partners World Series of Fighting.\n\nPancrase Korea is the South Korean subsidiary of the Pancrase Inc. and held several events from 2007 to 2010. The first Pancrase Korea event was an amateur one held on March 10, 2007 in Busan and the last one was the semi-professional \"Neo-Blood Tournament 2 & Hybrid Challenge 12\" held on September 12, 2010 in Seoul.\n\nAside from the traditional grappling rules (e.g., no biting, no eye-gouging) the rules were formerly as follows:\n\nAfter the , Pancrase began to use a ruleset similar to that of Pride FC, but prohibits knees to the head of grounded opponents.\n\nIn May 2014, Pancrase adopted the Association of Boxing Commissions and Combative Sports rules, better known as the Unified Rules of Mixed Martial Arts.\n\nThe current weight division system of Pancrase is based upon the Unified Rules of Mixed Martial Arts since December 4, 2007. At this time, Pancrase also announced establishment of Flyweight and Bantamweight, and abolition of Super heavyweight. On March 18, 2011, Pancrase restructured their weight classes adding several more lower weight classes. In addition, they introduced the Queen Of Pancrase title which will be used for women's fights in the future.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21582168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21582168", "title": "Phule's Company (series)", "text": "Phule's Company (series)\n\nPhule's Company is a series of comic military science fiction novels by Robert Asprin, beginning with \"Phule's Company\" and ending with \"Phule's Errand\".\n\nThe series takes place centuries in the future, where humans and other species have come together to form the Interplanetary Alliance, a federation government of numerous planets. The Alliance's military includes not only the Space Legion, but also the Regular Army and Starfleet. The Space Legion is considered the lowest on the totem pole, and the laughingstock of the armed forces. Space Legion protocol has all persons using a pseudonym chosen upon enlistment, and commissions are purchased. It is a violation of Legion rules to release \"another\" Legion member's real name, but not to reveal one's own.\n\nAfter being court-martialed for inadvertently ordering the strafing of a peace conference, Captain Jester is shipped off to command the Omega Company, a dumping ground for the Legion's foul-ups and misfits. Applying his well honed business sense to the running of the unit, he soon turns it around, winning the almost fanatical loyalty of his troops and turning the \"Omega Mob\", as it is affectionately nicknamed, into a crack unit. In each book, General Blitzkrieg contrives to send the unit on yet another 'impossible' assignment. They usually manage to come through unscathed.\n\nThe names of many in the series are based on puns.\n\nWillard J. Phule is the super-rich heir apparent of Phule-Proof Munitions, currently serving in the Space Legion. His Legion name is \"Jester,\" and holds the rank of Captain, being addressed thus as \"Captain Jester,\" and occasionally and inappropriately as \"Captain Phule\" or \"Captain Clown.\" Originally having the Legion name was \"Lieutenant Scaramouche\", Phule was brought up on charges and to be court-martialed for ordering the strafing of a peace conference, owing, as he put it, to a “communications error.”\n\nSince Phule-Proof is the Legion's arms and munitions supplier as well as the largest employer of their retirees, Legion Headquarters sees court-martialing the owner’s son as potentially disastrous. He is instead promoted to the rank of Captain and shipped off to Haskin's Planet to command the Omega Company, a dumping ground for the Legion's foul-ups and misfits. It is envisioned that this posting to such an unruly, undesirable outfit might encourage him to resign his commission.\n\nPhule is no fool, and recognizes this promotion's true intent. However, he decides to accept the challenge. Instead of the potentially abysmal assignment it was meant to be he sets out using his business acumen and determination to turn around the unruly “Omega Mob” into a crack military unit, giving the Jester the last laugh.\n\nPhule is a strong-willed individual, with a strong dislike for stereotyping, and not infrequently finds himself in conflict with other authority figures such as his father. Although of a wealthy background, he takes pride that his own fortune is largely self-made: although he started his business empire with a loan from his father, that loan was swiftly repaid. He is also very loyal to his people, going far above what officers would normally do for their soldiers and reacting aggressively to insults towards them. However, Phule can be over-industrious: he has been known to work himself to the point of exhaustion. He is not above using his enormous wealth to buy his way out of a situation, but typically does so only as a last resort. He is also not above using his real name and status to bully or cajole others into doing what he wants. However, regardless of how he wins a personal confrontation, he is always supremely magnanimous in victory and can usually manage to win over the person he's in conflict with. His not inconsiderable talents include finance, group dynamics, military tactics and strategy, leadership, and public relations.\n\nPhule's butler, confidante, and the narrator throughout the series. Though not technically a member of the unit, Beeker is highly respected by most of the company, and often provides its members with sage advice. While he has become quite wealthy in his years of service to Phule, he is still manifestly determined to continue his service to Phule out of companionship and friendship.\n\nThe Company First Sergeant, Brandy is the stereotypical hard-bitten veteran. In \"Phule's Paradise\", Tusk-anini speculates that she is in love with Captain Jester and unaware of the fact. She is one of three female members of Phule's Company who became centerfold models without his knowledge. Although a physical description is not given in the stories beyond the fact that she is a very big woman, but not fat, you get the impression that she is Amazonian: very good looking, in early middle age, over 6 feet tall, and thoroughly three-dimensional. She is also an old hand at brawling. In one scene she got in a scuffle with Tusk-anini, a alien (see below) and even after he knocked her down with the first punch, she put him in the hospital with a concussion. All in all, a great lady to have on your side when things get tough.\n\nThe senior of Phule's two junior officers, Rembrandt is also an aspiring artist. Beeker notes that before meeting Phule she specialised in landscapes, but after he took over the company she expressed an interest in painting a nude portrait of him. Rembrant, or \"Remmie\", initially lacks confidence and is content to let the NCO's run the company. Phule's major concern with her is teaching her to develop the habit of command, to trust her judgement, and to learn to exercise her authority. When circumstances put her in command of the Omega Mob in \"Phule's Paradise\", she performs decisively, including standing up to Colonel Battleaxe, Phule's immediate superior, when the situation required her to do so. Although Battleaxe recommended her for a command of her own, like Lt. Armstrong she is content to remain as one of Phule's subordinates.\n\nThe son of a heroic but dead military officer, Armstrong is initially an uptight caricature of the career Regular Army officer. A rant he delivers while drunk reveals he resents living in the shadow of his father, whom he feels he can never live up to because of the man's legendary status. Once Phule takes him under his wing, he begins to loosen up and learns to mix his military bearing along with compassion. At first, Armstrong is jealous of and contemptuous of Lt. Rembrandt, and takes any given opportunity to show her up. He soon learns to see her strengths, however, and the two form an excellent working relationship, helping each other out whenever they can. Like Lt. Rembrandt, he turned down promotion and a command of his own to stay with Captain Jester and the Omega Company.\n\nTusk-anini (or Tusk) is a Volton (sometimes incorrectly referred to as \"Voltron\"), a race with warthog-like features. His species is large and imposing, but pacifistic by nature. Captain Jester paired him with Super Gnat, and this pairing, like most of the other Omega Company partnerships, benefited both partners greatly. He doesn't like to fight but will if necessary, especially to protect his partner (often from her own temper). Tusk does not often take the bit in his teeth, but when he does it is best to step out of his way or do what he is asking you to do. He is the Legionnaire most loyal to Phule. He is also quite intelligent, and since he only sleeps a few minutes a day he spends his wealth of free time reading a daunting variety of human books to better learn the language and culture. He prides himself on not needing a translation device to communicate. Phule promotes him to corporal and makes him the company clerk. Tusk-anini plans to be a teacher after his enlistment is over.\n\nThe shortest Legionnaire in the unit, the diminutive Super-Gnat has the hottest temper. In the first book, she often exploded at the mere use of the word \"short\", even if it did not concern her. Her partnership with Tusk-anini calms her, and while she still has a fiery temper, she learned to control it once she found that Tusk-anini was fighting people who made fun of her, to keep her from getting hurt trying to fight them. It is revealed that she was married to a martial arts instructor, and is a black belt in multiple disciplines. However, when she loses her temper she usually is unable to call upon these skills, and loses most of her impulsive fights. Super-Gnat has taken fencing lessons from Phule and is one of the three female members of Phule's Company who became centerfold models without his knowledge.\n\nThe product of a wealthy family, Sushi was acquainted with Phule socially before they separately joined the Space Legion. In Sushi's case this decision was made after he lost a fortune he had embezzled to gambling debts. Sushi eventually initiates a one-man takeover of the Yakuza, the Japanese mafia.\n\nDo-Wop is something of a kleptomaniac, and Phule's reason for pairing him with Sushi was similar to the reasons he paired up other members of the unit: to balance each other. In this case, he hoped that Do-Wop would teach Sushi to learn to have fun and relax; and that Sushi could teach Do-Wop to aim a little higher than petty thievery. Unfortunately, their pairing succeeded entirely too well. Now, instead of a petty-grade kleptomaniac and a cold, calculating risktaker that usually held back, Do-Wop and Sushi are Omega Company's greatest masters of larceny. As they also are good planners, they are a force to be reckoned with when the Captain turns them loose on a problem.\n\nA female Legionnaire, the only original member of Omega Company without a partner. She is terrified of other people and is only capable of mumbling incoherently when addressed directly, except when the speaker is a woman. She is highly skilled as the Company's communications coordinator; in \"Phule's Paradise\" Tully Bascomb, a legendary casino security chief, suggests she look him up if she ever decides to leave the Legion, to teach \"eye in the sky\" security monitoring. The lack of face to face contact is the defining factor of Mother's shyness; when not dealing with people in person, she can be something of a smart-ass until the chips are down. She is one of the three female members of Phule's Company who became centerfold models without his knowledge — to his surprise, it was her idea.\n\nNamed after the Filipino form of martial arts, Sergeant Escrima is the company's mess sergeant. Hot-tempered, he is a talented chef; he dislikes insults towards his own food or food in general. He is a master in all forms of Philippine martial arts: hand-to-hand combat, knife fighting and especially arnis, Philippine stick fighting. He represented the Omega Mob in a competition against an elite Regular Army unit with the Olympic light saber in Phule's Company and almost defeated him, despite never having fenced before.\n\nAlso known as C.H. The company supply sergeant, Harry has a talent for black-marketeering. He is a former member of the Outlaws, a criminal hover-bike club and still maintains his personal bike. One of his trademarks is wearing sleeveless uniforms. He is partners with Louis, one of the Legion's two Sinthians, who rides in a side-car on Harry's bike, wielding a shotgun. Initially, C.H. doesn't think much of Phule and plans to take advantage of him, but soon learns that Phule is far too intelligent for this and can in fact teach him to play in the big leagues if he toes the line and operates within the parameters Phule gives him.\n\nA senior officer and one of the three Directors of the Space Legion, Blitzkrieg has a personal dislike of Phule and would very much like to force him out of the Legion, after which he intends to retire from the Space Legion and sell his memoirs. His preferred method is to assign the toughest of assignments to the Omega Company ... a strategy that has thus far failed to do anything more than cement the reputation of Phule's Company as an elite body of troops. He also has been known to attempt to throw a monkey wrench into the smooth operation of the Omega Mob by complying with the letter of the regulations. One example of this is Blitzkrieg's responding to Phule's request that a chaplain be assigned to his company by sending him a chaplain from The Church of The King — whose saviour is a Twentieth Century musician.\n\nThe officer who originally assigned Phule to the Omega Company and his immediate superior, Battleaxe fully expected that the tough duty would lead to his resignation. She was surprised but pleased when he instead turned them around and has since become his staunchest defender in the Space Legion, to the point of breaking off her first vacation in years to cross the galaxy and assist him against one of Blitzkrieg's schemes. She is aware that, should Phule be drummed out of the Legion, that the resultibg backlash from Phule-Proof Munitions (to which Phule is heir) would be disastrous to the Space Legion. She has recommended both Rembrandt and Armstrong for commands of their own.\n\nThe company's Zenobian contact. Though not a member of the unit, he is nevertheless indebted to Phule, whom he met during the first book, with pulling him out of disrepute due to his mistaking a ceremonial vase for a waste receptacle at a prominent reception. This incident led to his placement on an exploration team which crash landed upon the swamp planet, Haskins, whereupon their outfit was discovered and fired upon by Do-Wop of the Omega Company out of ignorance. His species resemble miniature allosaurs. Due to a malfunction of his universal translator, Qual habitually refers to Willard Phule, aka Captain Jester, as \"Captain Clown.\"\n\nWhen Captain Jester requested a chaplain for the Omega Company, General Blitzkrieg sent him the Reverend Jordan Ayres, of the Church of The King. He is somewhat pudgy with black, slicked back hair and an all too easily recognized face.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25314259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25314259", "title": "Portuguese Association of Theatre Critics", "text": "Portuguese Association of Theatre Critics\n\nThe Portuguese Association of Theatre Critics or Associação Portuguesa de Críticos de Teatro (APCT) is the leading theatrical critic association in Portugal. Although it dates back to before the 25th of April 1974, it was formally established on 28 November 1984. Its head office is located at 31 Avenida Duque de Loulé, in Lisbon.\n\nThe association was founded by Luiz Francisco Rebello, Carlos Porto, Fernando Midões, Jorge Listopad, Manuela de Azevedo, Maria Helena Serôdio, José Valentim Lemos, Maria Helena Dá Mesquita, Mário Sério, Orlando Neves, Tito Lívio and José Manuel da Nóbrega.\n\nThe formal entry of the Portuguese Association of Theatre Critics internationally occurred in 1987 in East Berlin, at the Tenth Congress of the International Association of Theatre Critics, and was then represented by the Association members Maria Helena and Eugenia Serôdio Vasques.\n\nThe Portuguese Association of Theater Critics has developed its activities in various ways, actively intervening in the allocation of annual premiums, and the organization of (and participation in) meetings, seminars and conferences, both nationally and internationally. \n\nSince 1990, and in various forms, the Portuguese Association of Theater Critics been actively participating in many of the initiatives of the International Association; it was represented in the Executive Committee from 1990 to 1992, when Helena Serôdio was elected as Secretary General, having been successively re-elected in 1994 and 1996. In 1998 she was elected Honorary Secretary General and later passed to direct the International Seminars for young critics. Many young critics and scholars of Portuguese theatre participated in some of these seminars, in several countries.\n\nThe most recent Congress of the International Association of Theater Critics, iwas held in October 2003 in Bucharest, when the Portuguese came to join the Executive Committee, represented by Paulo Eduardo Carvalho.\n\n"}
{"id": "33105540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33105540", "title": "Prostitution in Kyrgyzstan", "text": "Prostitution in Kyrgyzstan\n\nProstitution in Kyrgyzstan has been legal since 1998, but the operation of brothels, pimping, and recruiting persons into prostitution are illegal, with penalties of up to five years There are estimated to be 7,100 sex workers in the country. Prostitution occurs on the streets, in bars, hotels and brothels.\n\nProstitution has been blamed for a rise in AIDS. the HIV prevalence amongst sex workers is 2%.\n\nSex trafficking is a problem in the country.\n\nNGOs and sex workers report harassment and corruption by law enforcement and forced health checks. Since the setting up of the Police's \"Department for Combating Human Trafficking and Crimes Against Public Morality\" in 2013, the situation has deteriorated. In the capital, Bishkek, the former red-light district of Pravda Street is now devoid of prostitutes. A few \"mamochki\" (madams) are on the street, the sex workers being in nearby hotels. \n\nKyrgyz police officers allegedly exploit female trafficking victims, including some younger than age 18, for sex both in saunas and on the street. Concerns persist about police misconduct and corruption, including allegations that police threaten and extort sex trafficking victims, including minors, and reports that police accept bribes from alleged traffickers to drop cases.\n\nNGO Таис Плюс (Tais Plus) is an organisation that advocate sex workers rights and provides support and education to sex workers.\n\nThe organisation was started in 1997 by a group of sex workers as a \"trade union\". In 2000 it was registered as an NGO and received the status of a public organisation.\n\nTais Plus were successful in opposing an amendment to the law in 2005 that criminalised sex work, and again in 2012 against a proposed amendment to make prostitution an administrative offence.\n\nIt has been estimated that about 90% of street sex workers in Kyrgyzstan have reached by the organisation's outreach project.\n\nKyrgyzstan is a source, transit, and destination country for women and children subjected to sex trafficking. Women and girls are subjected to sex trafficking abroad, reportedly in Turkey, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), India, Russia, Kazakhstan, South Korea, and within the country. Underage teenage girls from Uzbekistan increasingly are subjected to sex trafficking in the southern region of the Kyrgyzstan. Some men and women from Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan transit the country as they migrate to Russia, the UAE, and Turkey, where they may be subjected to sex trafficking.\n\nArticle 124 of the criminal code, entitled “Trafficking in Persons,” criminalises both sex and labour trafficking of adults and children. The article requires the prosecutor to prove the offender used force, blackmail, fraud, deception, or abduction for cases of sex trafficking regardless of whether the victim is a child or adult. The government initiated five sex trafficking investigations under article 124 in 2016.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Kyrgyzstan as a 'Tier 2' country.\n\n"}
{"id": "2285985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285985", "title": "RTL Klub", "text": "RTL Klub\n\nRTL Klub is a television station (M-RTL Zrt.) owned by RTL Group and broadcast in Hungary. It was one of Hungary's first commercial TV channels and was only three days after the main rival TV2 to begin broadcasting.\n\nSince its start, RTL Klub has focused to gain viewers from the urban population. The channel airs programs mostly for a younger (18–49) audience.\n\nRTL and TV2 aired two similar major reality series simultaneously. While TV2 purchased the rights of \"Big Brother\", RTL Klub produced its own series called \"Való Világ\" (Real World).\n\"Való Világ\" had three seasons between 2002 and 2004. Since its second season the show has been much more successful than the rival \"Big Brother\".\n\nRTL is the most watched TV channel in Hungary since 2002, thanks to the daily Hungarian soap opera \"Barátok közt\" (Among Friends), which is the most watched TV programme in Hungary with more than 2 million viewers; the tabloid magazine \"Fókusz\" (Focus) and the game show \"Legyen Ön is milliomos\" (\"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?\"). Millionaire is off the schedule from September 2007 after seven years and has replaced by \"A Széf\" (\"Take It Or Leave It\").\n\nFrom the fall-winter season of 2005–2006, RTL Klub has started to broadcast popular American TV shows like \"Lost\". The first episode of \"Lost\" had almost 2 million viewers, and a 50% share. This was a record. The next year Prison Break started with almost 1.6 million. Nowadays a TV show at prime time (21:00) can reach 1–1.5 million viewers. In season 2006–2007 \"Prison Break\" was the most watched American series in Hungary.\n\nFrom the fall season of 2007, RTL Klub has launched two new formats with great success. Poker Face ran like a tournament for six weeks with an average 38–42% share. The other new show was \"Csillag születik\", the Hungarian version of the RTL \"Got Talent\" format. \"Poker Face\" ended with the super final at 18 December and the time slot of it will be occupied by the new game show \"A Széf\" (\"Take It or Leave it\").\n\nRTL Klub was the only licensed broadcaster of Formula One in Hungary from 2002 until 2011. After 10 years RTL decided not to renew the licence for Formula 1. The reason was that they wanted to concentrate mainly for the prime time programs because of the shrinking advertising market.\n\nThe RTL Klub has been the only licensed broadcaster of Domino Day in Hungary, for 6 years (2004–2009).\n\nFrom 2010, RTL Klub started with 2 winning formats. First of all the channel after 6 years absence successfully relaunched the Való Világ franchise. VV4 ran with a 40% SHR among 18-49 demographic. Secondly they purchased the rights of television talent show The X Factor. The show ran with a 50% SHR among 18-49 demographic which is really high on the Hungarian television market. The Factor crashed the competitor talent show on TV2 so \"Megasztár\" left the time slot of \"The X Factor\" after a few episodes. \nBecause of the success of both format, RTL Klub renewed both show for the 5th and 2nd season respectively. They started in the fall season of 2011.\n\n\n\nRTL Klub has many sister channels. One of the owners of RTL Klub is \"IKO Kábeltévé Kft.\", which also owns Cool TV, Film+, SportKlub, SportKlub+ (which is a non-airing channel since 2009), DoQ, F&H, Sorozat+, Poén! (which became Prizma in December 2010), Reflektor and Film+2, all of which are in some way related to the IKO's primary channel, RTL Klub.\nIn 2011, RTL Group acquired seven TV channels from the IKO Kábeltévé (Cool TV, Film+, Film+2, Prizma TV, Sorozat+, Reflektor TV, Muzsika TV).\nThematic Cable bought SportKlub, DoQ and F&H in 2013 from the RTL Group.\nPrizma TV reruns since May 2014 called .\n\nOriginally Cool TV had the target audience of 15–29 urban youths who love music, externals, clothes, trendy lifestyle and extravagance. The channel was launched in 2003 and it is available in 2.5 million households.\nThe channel is on a 24/7 broadcast schedule, targeting audience not only during the day, but during the night as well. Cool TV airs reruns of series RTL Klub originally purchased or produced as well as series targeting today's youth. These include: \"South Park\", \"Married... with Children\" (\"Egy rém rendes család\"), \"24\", \"Footballer's Wives\" (\"Futbalista feleségek\"), \"The L Word\" (\"L\"), \"Queer as Folk\" (\"A fiúk a klubból\"), \"The Unit\" (\"Az egység\"), \"Dead Like Me\" (\"Haláli hullák\"), \"Weeds\" (\"Spangli\"), \"Skins\" (\"Skins\"), \"Desperate Housewives\" (\"Született feleségek\")\n\nIn 2007, Cool TV launched a series of topical shows produced by the channel, such as \"Cool Live and Cool Night\", featuring younger hosts lent to Cool by RTL Klub. The earlier is a youth lifestyle show, and the latter is an adult show including interviews with Hungarian porn stars and producers, as well as occasionally shown soft-core video clips. , these talk shows are cancelled.\n\nIn 2009, Cool TV purchased the airing rights of the successful Hungarian version of \"Whose line is it anyway?\", Beugró.\n\nFrom August 30, 2010, Cool TV changed image and was rebranded, opening for a wider audience. Since then the channel airs mostly crime procedurals like the , \"Bones\", \"Castle\", Cobra 11, The Mentalist, etc. The move was successful because as of July 2012, Cool TV is the third watched commercial TV channel, and most watched cable channel in Hungary (target audience 18-49, prime time 19.00-23.00), beating main competitor Viasat 3.\n\nFilm+ was launched on 15 September 2003, the same time as Cool TV. The channel airs movies which previously aired on RTL Klub 24/7. According to 2012 Hungarian television ratings, Film+ is the third-most-watched cable channel in Hungary. Due to the early success of the channel, the parent company launched Film+2, which airs movies in the same fashion as Film+.\n\nFilm+2 is a non-violent family channel. This movie channel is devoted partly to female audiences, and partly to family films during the evenings and weekends. It offers comedies, romantic films, adventures and dramas. In the RTL cable portfolio, Film Plusz 2 is the channel that broadcasts most Hungarian films.\n\nThe Sport Klub channel was launched before 2 January 2006. RTL Klub purchased the broadcasting rights of the FIFA World Cup 2006 but it didn't have enough airing time for all of the matches, and therefore Sport Klub was launched by the parent company to fill in. Now Sport Klub airs various sport activities, such as the French and Italian football league (as partner of Digi Sport), tennis, poker, NCAA, athletics, futsal and box. űThe channel reran the Formula-1 broadcast of the parent channel to 2011. It aired certain matches of the English and the Spanish league, however its main competitors, the sports channels run by the Hungarian public service television MTV, Sport1 and Sport2, have the first pick of the matches they would like to air. To ease up the load on Sport Klub, the parent company also launched the channel SportKlub+, which aired sports events deemed to attract less viewers than the parent channel.\n\nSport Klub is also available in countries close to Hungary in which countries IKO also operates, including Romania, Poland, Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia.\n\nIn September, 2011 RTL Klub started a project named \"RTL2\" to launch a new RTL channel in Hungary. In April, 2012 it was announced, that RTL will launch RTL II in September or in October with \"I Love Gjoni\" (reality show); \"Who Wants To Be a Millionaire?\" (Hungarian version) and \"Heti Hetes\" (weekly comedy show on Sunday nights).\n\nIn July 2012, something started to promoted on \"RTL Klub\" with these sentences: \"The Life is Nice\" (Hungarian: \"Az élet szép.\"), \"The Sky is Blue\" (\"Az ég kék.\"), \"The Grass is Green\" (\"A fű zöld.\"), but it wasn't mentioned that these ads are advertising something. In September 2012, it was revealed that these ads advertised \"RTL2\", the new commercial television channel what will launch on October 1, 2012 and it will replace Reflektor TV. In September, it suddenly became an Internet meme but bloggers and net users were disappointed when they got know the promotion is about \"just\" a new TV channel.\n\nAt the launch the prime-time schedule of RTL II included series: \"Modern Family\", \"White Collar\", \"Terra Nova\", \"Journeyman\", \"The Forgotten\", \"Chase\", shows moved from RTL Klub: \"Who Wants to be a Millionaire\" and \"Heti Hetes\" and a new magazine \"Forró nyomon\".\n\nPrizma TV’s focus is on entertainment and its purpose is to provide something attractive for each generation. Most of its programming consists of beloved familiars, but there are some new audience favourites, too. It airs as since May 2014.\n\nSorozat+ is the channel for fans of series - for those who live in anticipation of the next episode. Sorozat+ offers something for each member of the family, from Latin-American telenovelas to top US series.\n\nMuzsika TV is a music channel that offers a mix of traditional and modern pieces, featuring the greatest stars of folk and pop music as well as operettas and musicals.\n\n"}
{"id": "9235009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9235009", "title": "Records of Early English Drama", "text": "Records of Early English Drama\n\nThe Records of Early English Drama (REED) is a performance history research project, based at the University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It was founded in 1976 by a group of international scholars interested in understanding “the native tradition of English playmaking that apparently flourished in late medieval provincial towns” and formed the context for the development of the English Renaissance theatre, including the work of Shakespeare and his contemporaries. REED’s primary focus is to locate, transcribe, edit, and publish historical documents from England, Wales, and Scotland containing evidence of drama, secular music, and other communal entertainment and mimetic ceremony from the late Middle Ages until 1642, when the Puritans closed the London public theatres. \n\nFrom its inception in 1976 to 2016, REED published twenty-seven print collections of records edited by over thirty international scholars. REED is also engaged in creating a collection of free digital resources for research and education including \"Patrons and Performances\" (2003) and \"Early Modern London Theatres\" (2011). In March 2017, REED moved to digital publication of records with the launch of \"REED Online\", a publication site where records will be freely available. \n\nDuring a 1970-71 research trip in York, England, to study manuscripts related to the York cycle of biblical plays (also known as the York Mystery Plays), Alexandra F. Johnston, an early drama scholar from the University of Toronto, came across a manuscript transcription of a 1433 indenture agreement between the leaders of the medieval Mercers' Guild and their pageant masters. The document contained details of a medieval pageant wagon and sophisticated staging unknown to researchers of the time. Johnston also met Margaret Dorrell, an Australian graduate student at the University of Leeds, who was working on a similar project related to the York records; the two women decided to collaborate.\n\nWithin the next two years, Johnston and Dorrell met other scholars of medieval and Renaissance drama working independently on manuscripts from other English cities (David Galloway of the University of New Brunswick on Norwich, Reginald Ingram of the University of British Columbia on Coventry, and Lawrence Clopper of Indiana University Bloomington on Chester). The idea of a scholarly publishing project to find, transcribe, and edit documentary evidence of performance arose from these meetings and was met with interest by the individual researchers and their academic communities. \n\nIn January 1974, Johnston circulated a position paper on the project. Discussions and planning followed and, in February 1975, the inaugural REED meeting was held at Victoria University in the University of Toronto. In 1975-76, Johnston received a Canada Council personal grant for the publication of the York records as a pilot project, and in late 1976, REED was officially launched with a Canada Council ten-year Major Editorial Grant for the proposed series of collections, establishing REED as a long-term research and publishing project. Because three of the four initial collections were edited by Canadian researchers, Toronto, Canada, became the home of the project. \n\nIn 1979, REED published its first two collections of records: York, edited by Alexandra F. Johnston and Margaret Rogerson (née Dorrell), and Chester, edited by Lawrence D. Clopper. Since then the project has expanded its scope from major cities and towns to all the counties of England, Wales, and Scotland, based on historic pre-1642 county borders.\n\nAfter its inception in 1976, REED produced the bi-annual \"REED Newsletter\" which, in 1997, became the refereed scholarly journal \"Early Theatre\". \n\nREED has had close ties to the English Department, the Centre for Medieval Studies (CMS), the Centre for Reformation and Renaissance Studies (CRRS), and the Graduate Centre for Study of Drama. From 1976 to 2009 the project was based at Victoria University in the University of Toronto. In 2009 the offices of the project moved to the English Department. REED retains active relationships with the English Department, the CMS, and the University of Toronto Libraries. REED’s internal governance is provided by an Executive Board of senior scholars in early drama and related fields, with digital advisors and collections editors drawn from Canada, the United States, Australia, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom. \n\nREED has collaborated with the Poculi Ludique Societas (PLS) to mount four productions of full cycles of medieval biblical dramas: the \"York Plays\" (also called the York Mystery Plays) in 1977 and 1998, and the \"Chester Plays\" (also called the Chester Mystery Plays) in 1983 and 2010, with participation from international amateur theatre groups.\n\nIn November 2002, REED, in partnership with the Art Gallery of Ontario, hosted the Picturing Shakespeare symposium, an exhibition of and an accompanying public symposium regarding the Sanders portrait, an Elizabethan painting reputed to be the only one of Shakespeare made during his lifetime.\n\nIn addition to revealing evidence of vernacular entertainment activities, the research work for the collections produces a body of knowledge regarding professional travelling entertainers, their patronage, and their performance venues. This cumulative information was first launched for public use through the Patrons and Performances website in 2003. \n\nIn 2011, REED collaborated with the Department of Digital Humanities, King's College London, and the Department of English at the University of Southampton to create \"Early Modern London Theatres\" (\"EMLoT\"), a research database and educational resource, with learning modules. \"EMLoT\" gathers documents related to professional theatres north and south of the Thames up to 1642 and bibliographic information about their subsequent transcriptions, documenting how scholars “got [their] information about the early theatres, from whom and when.”\n\nIn 2016, to mark the 400th anniversary of Shakespeare’s death, REED collaborated with the BBC and The British Library to produce an ongoing public website titled Shakespeare on Tour. Many REED editors contributed stories and images from their research in the Elizabethan period to help raise “the curtain on performances of The Bard’s plays countrywide from the 16th Century to the present day.” \n\nThroughout its existence, REED maintained its primary focus and published about six collections each decade. In 2015, REED published its last print collection (\"Civic London to 1558\", edited by Anne Lancashire), and in March 2017, the first digital collection (\"Staffordshire\", edited by Alan B. Somerset) was made freely available on its publication website, \"REED Online\". All subsequent collections will be added to this database and website.\n\nREED has received substantial funding from private individuals and foundations (including the Jackman Foundation), the Canada Council, and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council in Canada; the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation in the U.S.; as well as the Arts and Humanities Research Council and The British Academy in the U.K.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12198502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12198502", "title": "Rent (albums)", "text": "Rent (albums)\n\nRent (Original Broadway Cast Recording) is an album of music from the Tony Award- and Pulitzer Prize-winning musical \"Rent\". It is produced by DreamWorks with music and lyrics by Jonathan Larson. The album is a 2-disc (in its CD format) collection of every song from the musical; some small segments of narration and spoken dialogue from the play are not included in the recording. The collection ends with a studio-recorded rearrangement of the song \"Seasons of Love\" featuring Stevie Wonder. The album was recorded by the original Broadway cast of \"RENT\" and was released on August 27, 1996. A second one-disc album was released in 1999 containing highlights from the original cast album.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14601332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14601332", "title": "Social value orientations", "text": "Social value orientations\n\nIn social psychology, social value orientation (SVO) is a person's preference about how to allocate resources (e.g. money) between the self and another person. SVO corresponds to how much weight a person attaches to the welfare of others in relation to the own. Since people are assumed to vary in the weight they attach to other peoples' outcomes in relation to their own, SVO is an individual difference variable. The general concept underlying SVO has become widely studied in a variety of different scientific disciplines, such as economics, sociology, and biology under a multitude of different names (e.g. \"social preferences\", \"other-regarding preferences\", \"welfare tradeoff ratios\", \"social motives\", etc.).\n\nThe SVO construct has its history in the study of interdependent decision making, i.e. strategic interactions between two or more people. The advent of Game theory in the 1940s provided a formal language for describing and analyzing situations of interdependence based on utility theory. As a simplifying assumption for analyzing strategic interactions, it was generally presumed that people only consider their own outcomes when making decisions in interdependent situations, rather than taking into account the interaction partners' outcomes as well. However, the study of human behavior in social dilemma situations, such as the Prisoner's dilemma, revealed that some people do in fact appear to have concerns for others.\n\nIn the Prisoner's dilemma, participants are asked to take the role of two criminals. In this situation, they are to pretend that they are a pair of criminals being interrogated by detectives in separate rooms. Both participants are being offered a deal and have two options. That is, the participant may remain silent or confess and implicate his or her partner. However, if both participants choose to remain silent, they will be set free. If both participants confess they will receive a moderate sentence. Conversely, if one participant remains silent while the other confesses, the person who confesses will receive a minimal sentence while the person who remained silent (and was implicated by their partner) will receive a maximum sentence. Thus, participants have to make the decision to cooperate with or compete with their partner. \n\nWhen used in the lab, the dynamics of this situation are stimulated as participants play for points or for money. Participants are given one of two choices, labeled option C or D. Option C would be the cooperative choice and if both participants choose to be cooperative then they will both earn points or money. On the other hand, Option D is the competitive choice. If just one participants chooses option D, that participant will earn points or money while the other player will lose money. However, if both participant pick D, then both of them will lose money. In addition to displaying participant's social value orientations, it also displays the dynamics of a mixed-motives situation. \n\nFrom behavior in strategic situations it is not possible, though, to infer peoples' motives, i.e. the joint outcome they would choose if they alone could determine it. The reason is that behavior in a strategic situation is always a function of both peoples' preferences about joint outcomes \"and\" their beliefs about the intentions and behavior of their interaction partners.\n\nIn an attempt to assess peoples' preferences over joint outcomes alone, disentangled from their beliefs about the other persons' behavior, David M. Messick and Charles G. McClintock in 1968 devised what has become known as the \"decomposed game technique\". Basically, any task where one decision maker can alone determine which one out of at least two own-other resource allocation options will be realized is a \"decomposed game\" (also often referred to as dictator game, especially in economics, where it is often implemented as a constant-sum situation). \n\nBy observing which own-other resource allocation a person chooses in a \"decomposed game\", it is possible to infer that person's preferences over own-other resource allocations, i.e. \"social value orientation\". Since there is no other person making a decision that affects the joint outcome, there is no interdependence, and therefore a potential effect of beliefs on behavior is ruled out.\n\nTo give an example, consider two options, A and B. If you choose option A, you will receive $100, and another (unknown) person will receive $10. If you choose option B, you will receive $85, and the other (unknown) person will also receive $85. This is a \"decomposed game\". If a person chooses option B, we can infer that this person does not only consider the outcome for the self when making a decision, but also takes into account the outcome for the other.\n\nWhen people seek to maximize their gains, they are said to be proself. But when people are also concerned with other's gains and losses, they are said to be prosocial. There are four categories within SVO. Individualistic and competitive SVOs are proself while cooperative and altruistic SVOs are prosocial: \n\n\nHowever, in 1973 Griesinger and Livingston provided a geometric framework of SVO (the \"SVO ring\", see \"Figure 1\") with which they could show that SVO is in principle not a categorical, but a continuous construct that allows for an infinite number of social value orientations. \n\nThe basic idea was to represent outcomes for the self (on the \"x-axis\") and for the other (on the \"y-axis\") on a Cartesian plane, and represent own-other payoff allocation options as coordinates on a circle centered at the origin of the plane. If a person chooses a particular own-other outcome allocation on the ring, that person's SVO can be represented by the angle of the line starting at the origin of the Cartesian plane and intersecting the coordinates of the respective chosen own-other outcome allocation. \n\nIf, for instance, a person would choose the option on the circle that maximizes the own outcome, this would refer to an \"SVO angle\" of formula_1, indicating a perfectly individualistic SVO. An angle of formula_2 would indicate a perfectly cooperative (maximizing joint outcomes) SVO, while an angle of formula_3 would indicate a perfectly competitive (maximizing relative gain) SVO. This conceptualization indicates that SVO is a continuous construct, since there is an infinite number of possible SVOs, because angular degrees are continuous. \n\nThis advancement in the conceptualization of the SVO construct also clarified that SVO as originally conceptualized can be represented in terms of a utility function of the following form\n\nformula_4,\n\nwhere formula_5 is the outcome for the self, formula_6 is the outcome for the other, and the parameters indicate the weight a person attaches to the own outcome (formula_7) and the outcome for the other (formula_8).\n\nSeveral different measurement methods exist for assessing SVO. The basis for any of these measures is the \"decomposed game technique\", i.e. a set of non-constant-sum dictator games. The most commonly used SVO measures are the following.\n\nThe Ring measure was devised by Wim B. G. Liebrand in 1984 and is based on the geometric SVO framework proposed by Griesinger and Livingston in 1973. In the Ring measure, subjects are asked to choose between 24 pairs of options that allocate money to the subject and the \"other\". The 24 pairs of outcomes correspond to equally spaced adjacent own-other-payoff allocations on an \"SVO ring\", i.e. a circle with a certain radius centered at the origin of the Cartesian plane. The vertical axis (y) measures the amount of points or money allocated to the other and the horizontal axis (x) measures the amount allocated to the self. Each pair of outcomes corresponds to two adjacent points on the circle. Adding up a subject's 24 choices yields a \"motivational vector\" with a certain length and angle. The length of the vector indicates the consistency of a subject's choice behavior, while the angle indicates that subject's SVO. Subjects are then categorized into one out of eight SVO categories according to their SVO angle, given a sufficiently consistent choice pattern. This measure allows for the detection of uncommon pathological SVOs, such as masochism, sadomasochism, or martyrdom, which would indicate that a subject attaches a negative weight (formula_9) to the outcome for the self given the utility function described above.\n\nThe triple-dominance measure is directly based on the use of \"decomposed games\" as suggested by Messick and McClintock (1968). Concretely, the triple-dominance measure consists of nine items, each of which asks a subject to choose one out of three own-other-outcome allocations. The three options do have the same characteristics in each of the items. One option maximizes the outcome for the self, a second option maximizes the sum of the outcomes for the self and the other (joint outcome), and the third option maximizes the relative gain (i.e. the difference between the outcome for the self and the outcome for the other). If a subject chooses an option indicating a particular SVO in at least six out of the nine items, the subject is categorized accordingly. That is, a subject is categorized as \"cooperative/prosocial\", \"individualistic\", or \"competitive\".\n\nThe Slider measure assess SVO on a continuous scale, rather than categorizing subjects into nominal motivational groups. The instrument consists of 6 primary and 9 secondary items. In each item of the paper-based version of the Slider measure, a subject has to indicate her most preferred own-other outcome allocation out of nine options. From a subject's choices in the primary items, the \"SVO angle\" can be computed. There is also an online version of the Slider measure, where subjects can \"slide\" along a continuum of own-other payoff allocations in the items, allowing for a very precise assessment of a person's SVO. The secondary items can be used for differentiating between the motivations to maximize the joint outcome and to minimize the difference in outcomes (inequality aversion) among prosocial subjects. The SVO Slider Measure has been shown to be more reliable than previously used measures, and yields SVO scores on a continuous scale.\n\nSome recent papers have explored whether Social Value Orientation is somehow reflected on human brain activity. A functional magnetic resonance imaging study found that responses of Medial Prefrontal Cortex - an area that is typically associated with social cognition- mirrored preferences over competitive, individualistic and cooperative allocations. Similar findings in this or neighboring areas (ventromedial and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex) have been reported elsewhere .\n\nSVO has been shown to be predictive of important behavioral variables, such as:\n\n\nFurthermore, it has been shown that individualism is prevalent among very young children, and that the frequency of expressions of prosocial and competitive SVOs increases with age. Among adults, it has been shown repeatedly that prosocial SVOs are most frequently observed (up to 60 percent), followed by individualistic SVOs (about 30-40 percent), and competitive SVOs (about 5-10 percent). Evidence also suggests that SVO is first and foremost determined by socialization, and that genetic predisposition plays a minor role in SVO development.\n\nThe SVO construct is rooted in social psychology, but has also been studied in other disciplines, such as economics. However, the general concept underlying SVO is inherently interdisciplinary, and has been studied under different names in a variety of different scientific fields; it is the concept of distributive preferences. Originally, the SVO construct as conceptualized by the \"SVO ring framework\" did not include preferences such as inequality aversion, which is a distributive preference heavily studied in experimental economics. This particular motivation can also not be assessed with commonly used measures of SVO, except with the \"SVO Slider Measure\". The original SVO concept can be extended, though, by representing peoples' distributive preferences in terms of utility functions, as is standard in economics. For instance, a representation of SVO that includes the expression of a motivation to minimize differences between outcomes could be formalized as follows.\n\nformula_10.\n\nSeveral utility functions as representations of peoples' concerns for the welfare of others have been devised and used (for a very prominent example, see Fehr & Schmidt, 1999) in economics. It is a challenge for future interdisciplinary research to combine the findings from different scientific disciplines and arrive at a unifying theory of SVO. Representing SVO in terms of a utility function and going beyond the construct's original conceptualization may facilitate the achievement of this ambitious goal.\n\n"}
{"id": "32596633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32596633", "title": "Squeeze box (magic trick)", "text": "Squeeze box (magic trick)\n\nThe Squeeze Box is an illusion designed and originally performed by André Kole.\n\nA person (the magician or the assistant) enters a horizontal box and extends their head out one end and their feet out of the other. A wheel is spun, squeezing both ends of the box towards the middle until the person's head is right next to their feet. The feet move throughout the effect and the person's hands can be shown out the top of the box. The box is stretched back out and the person emerges unharmed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2652292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2652292", "title": "Star Music", "text": "Star Music\n\nStar Music, formerly known as Star Records, is a record label in the Philippines owned and operated by media conglomerate ABS-CBN. It was formerly a separate company operating as a wholly owned subsidiary of ABS-CBN until 2013 when it was merged to ABS-CBN Film Productions, Inc. Its publishing and distribution subsidiary in the country is Star Music Publishing (formerly Star Songs, Inc.) and has over one thousand songs in its catalog including the classic song \"Anak\" by Freddie Aguilar.\n\nIt is a member of the Philippine Association of the Record Industry (PARI), a non-profit and private trade organization, that represents the recording industry distributors in the Philippines.\n\nStar Music was founded in February 1995 as Star Recording, Inc. with Star Records as its label. The record label was created by ABS-CBN Corporation to diversify its functions from a broadcast media to a full entertainment company. Commercial operations of the label started in September 1995, signing an exclusive distribution agreement with Sony Music Entertainment Philippines (now Ivory Music and Video) in the entire country, except in Metro Manila. Due to its distribution agreement with Sony, Star Records endured problems with distributing titles in Metro Manila. In August 1996, the record label engage into licensing deals in order to strengthen its production base and gain entry into the Metro Manila market. It first signed a 3-year license agreement with JML Records, a local rock label. The deal enabled the label to gain control of its catalogue of 30 titles. Later, Star Records signed deals with foreign-independent labels such as Beaver Music of the Netherlands, Music of Life of the United Kingdom, and Rox of Belgium.\n\nIn October 1996, Star Records renewed its licensing deal with Sony which also includes 30 dealerships in Metro Manila. The deal enabled the label to get a significant presence in Metro Manila's market. By December of the same year, the label's number of signed artists increased to twenty artists. In June 1997, Star Records signed a distribution and licensing agreement with Taiwan's Rock Records, which also involved products from about forty independent European and American labels. Also under this deal, albums by named international artists helped improved Star Records' market profile.\n\nIn 2007, Star Records launched Acel, the former vocalist of the rock band Moonstar88, as the country's first digital artist. By 2015, the record label celebrates its 20th anniversary.\n\nIn 2013, Star Recording, Inc. and Star Songs, Inc. were both merged to ABS-CBN Film Productions. In 2014, it changed its name to Star Music. In the same year, they launched their very own music downloading website. This is also the time where Star Music started to release their songs on iTunes, Spotify, and other music downloading and streaming websites and applications. They also revamped their YouTube channel as a response to the current trend in the consumption of music and video contents on the internet.\n\nIn September 2015, Star Music acquired the copyrights to around 116 original compositions of Tito Sotto, Vic Sotto and Joey de Leon which includes songs popularized by 1970s group VST & Co., Sharon Cuneta, and Nora Aunor, and popular songs such as \"Ipagpatawad Mo\", \"Tayo'y Magsayawan\" and \"Awitin Mo, Isasayaw Ko.\"\n\nOn January 31, 2016, after 10 years, rapper Gloc-9 signed a record deal with Star Music, the record label who introduced Gloc-9 to mainstream listeners. Two of the most successful albums of Gloc-9, \"G9\" and \"Ako Si...\" were released under Star Records in 2003 and 2005 respectively. These albums brought Gloc-9's biggest smash hits with songs like \"Simpleng Tao\" and \"Hinahanap Ng Puso (feat. Hannah Romawac of Session Road)\".\n\n\nIn addition, Star Music also distributes singles and albums/EPs of selected artists from OneMusicPH, a digital music website owned by ABS-CBN Digital Media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49597919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49597919", "title": "Stichting De Stilte", "text": "Stichting De Stilte\n\nStichting De Stilte, or abbreviated De Stilte, is a Dutch dance company based in Breda focused on modern dance in combination with performing for children, but also for an adult audience.\n\nDe Stilte organizes performances as well as educational activities such as workshops, introductions and lessons. They run over 500 productions a year and is part of the basic infrastructure of the Dutch Ministry of Culture, Education and Science and receives a guaranteed structural funding for that. The organisation has two studios, one of it is a fully equipped theatre where they do public performances. Every two years the International Stiltefestival takes place in and around Breda. The organisation tours regularly worldwide, besides their activities in the Netherlands. \nIn 2015 De Stilte was no.82 in the Dutch Cultuur Top 100 of NRC Handelsblad.\n\nDe Stilte in NRC Handelsblad\n\n"}
{"id": "49113158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49113158", "title": "Straight Talk with Ross Mathews", "text": "Straight Talk with Ross Mathews\n\nStraight Talk with Ross Mathews (STWR) is a weekly podcast described as \"Advice & LOLs from the Gay Best Friend You Wish You Had and Know You Need,\" hosted by Ross Mathews. The audio podcasts are typically between an hour to an hour and a half in length and feature celebrity interviews and discussion on pop-culture and current events. The show was first released on November 11, 2014. The show's theme song is \"Straight Talk\" by Dolly Parton. \n\nThe program features segments including Pre-Podcast Prayer Circle, Press-Conference, Snack Attack!, Weight-Update, Are You Smarter Than Mark, Trending with Daria, Nikki B. Trending, Minute Mark, United Straights of America, Teen Talk with Jordan, Balls Deep with Fagsy, Movie Critic Bill's Movie Reviews, BrendaGnocchi! (Brandon Karaoke), Ross Report, Brenda's 3 Questions, Simply The Best (STB), The Blackness, Kiss Kiss and Tell, Pick Ross' Brain, Dr. Top/Bottom, Latina Turner, and Shart Tank. The show features regulars, co-hosts, and celebrity guests.<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "3556765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3556765", "title": "Suikoden Tactics", "text": "Suikoden Tactics\n\nSuikoden Tactics, originally released in Japan as , is a tactical role-playing video game developed and published by Konami for the PlayStation 2 console as part of their \"Suikoden\" series. Initially released in Japan and North America in late 2005, the game was later made available in Europe and the PAL region in early 2006. It is the first strategy-based installment of the series, using tactical, grid-based combat instead of the turn-based battles employed by previous games in the series. The game's music was composed by series veteran Norikazu Miura and features the opening theme \"Another World\" performed by Japanese vocalist yoshiko.\n\nThe game's fantasy story is told in two parts, taking place both before and after the events of \"Suikoden IV\" released one year earlier, and features appearances by characters from the title. Players assume the role of Kyril, a young man investigating the power of mysterious weapons called \"Rune Cannons,\" which hold strange powers of transformation.\n\n\"Suikoden Tactics\" is a tactical role-playing game and thus shares many traits with the genre. The player controls a young man named Kyril, and advances the plot by completing tactical battles and talking with other characters. The player can also recruit new characters to his cause, which often involves a short sidequest. In towns, the player can gather information, sharpen character's weaponry, learn new skills, and buy equipment.\nEach character may use special \"Runes\" or items to imbue terrain squares with various elements. Characters each have a particular element on which their attack and defence is boosted by a significant amount when they occupy a space with the corresponding element, and the reverse is true if the character occupies a space with an element the character is weak to.\n\nAnother feature of the battle system in Suikoden Tactics is its use of supporting characters. Such characters have no offensive value, as they can not attack, but impart various effects on the playing field such as healing, stealing, digging, and stat buffing.\n\nAside from that, the elemental runes and weapon runes from previous games return. Elemental Runes all have as their level 1 spell, a magic that turns an area of the playing field of a certain element. Weapon runes in Suikoden Tactics operate differently from previous Suikoden games. Instead of a single attack with infinite uses, weapon runes impart three different attacks that operate similarly to spell runes, as each attack is defined by a certain number of charges before it can no longer be used, although all MP would be recharged upon a level-up.\n\nThe story of \"Suikoden Tactics\" begins about seven years before the events of \"Suikoden IV\", and establishes the reason why Kyril is determined to search out and destroy the Rune Cannons. The prequel part of Suikoden Tactics ends with a traumatic event for Kyril, and how Brandeau gains the possession of the Rune of Punishment.\n\nThe game leaps forward about three years after the events of \"Suikoden IV\" takes place. From here on, Kyril begins his investigation on Rune Cannons and eventually leads him north into the Kooluk Empire. Kyril meets a mysterious man, Iskas, who hints at a connection between Rune Cannons and Kooluk. From there, Kyril investigates further about connections between Kooluk and Rune Cannons, and soon leads Kyril to Kika and her pirate crew. Clues turn Kyril's journey north, first to the fortress of El Eal, then finally into the Kooluk Empire itself.\n\nDuring his investigation in the Kooluk Empire, Kyril and his company meets up with a young aristocrat girl named Corselia, who is later revealed as the granddaughter of the Emperor of the Kooluk Empire. It is also here that Iskas finally reveals his real intentions and begins a plot to antagonize Kyril.\n\nThe music for \"Suikoden Tactics\" was composed and arranged by Norikazu Miura, who would go on to also compose the soundtrack of \"Suikoden V\". The opening theme \"Another World\" was performed by yoshiko. The music was released first as the \"Rhapsodia Privilege Collection\" was released on September 22, 2005. It is a single CD containing selected tracks from the game as well as remixes from other \"Suikoden\" soundtracks. It also features a preview of \"Castle of Dawn,\" the music for the Ceras Lake castle in \"Suikoden V\", which was at the time unpublished. A week later on September 28, the \"Rhapsodia Original Soundtrack\" was released as a full compilation of the music in the game over 2 CDs.\n\n\"Suikoden Tactics\" was met with a fairly positive response in Japan, selling approximately 64,472 within its first year, enough to qualify it for a re-release under Sony's \"PlayStation the Best\" distinction in November 2006 at a budget price. \"Famitsu\" gave it a score of two eights, one seven, and one eight for a total of 31 out of 40.\n\nThe game received \"average\" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. GameSpot praised the game's user-friendliness and battle design, stating that the game was \"fun for veterans and newcomers alike\", yet found the game's \"weak story and characters\" and \"spotty voice acting\" to be its low points. IGN also found the game's battle system to be engaging, but ultimately declared the game's plot to be \"paltry\", urging the player to \"[e]xpect more from battles rather than plotlines.\" Conversely, \"Game Informer\" found the game too confusing with haphazard battle scenes, stating, \"I'd rather have a simple and well-balanced game than a complicated and lopsided one, and \"Suikoden Tactics\" definitely has too many short legs.\" \"Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine\" stated that the gameplay \"works when it's not broken\", but was hindered by \"boring\" story sequences and \"awful\" graphics.\n\nEurogamer found the game to be lackluster when compared to other tactical-based role-playing games, particularly those developed by Nippon Ichi Software, declaring that \"Suikoden Tactics\"s \"[b]attles are fun and fairly compulsive but this is a game we've played many times over, usually presented better, executed more beautifully and intertwined with a far superior story.\" G4's \"X-Play\" echoed their sentiment, stating that \"despite some interesting play mechanics, it's not nearly as deep as some of the other games on the market right now.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "52905561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52905561", "title": "TV Times (Australia)", "text": "TV Times (Australia)\n\nTV Times was an Australian magazine, issued weekly, first published as a Sydney-only publication in June 1958. The publication previewed upcoming storylines for popular television programs airing in Australia, featured interviews and a full weekly program guide. It was a long time rival to \"TV Week\" magazine until it was incorporated into that magazine in 1980.\n\n\"TV Times\" evolved out of a magazine titled \"TV News\", launched by the ABC in June 1958. It joined rival publications \"Television Preview\", produced by the Television Owners Club of Australia and launched in 1957, and an Australian Consolidated Press magazine titled \"TV Times\". They were joined in July 1958 by a Sydney edition of \"TV Week\", which had been publishing in Melbourne since December 1957 as \"TV-Radio Week\".\n\nIt was thought that four television titles in the market was unsustainable so ACP entered into a co-publishing deal with the ABC, which saw their respective magazines merged to become \"TV News-Times\" (soon simplified to \"TV Times\"). By the end of the year, \"Television Preview\" was incorporated into \"TV Week\", leaving two rival publications in the market for the next two decades. \"TV Times\" notably gave far more space and cover stories to ABC programs than its rival. \n\n\"TV Times\" began a Melbourne edition in August 1959. Both \"TV Times\" and \"TV Week\" continued to expand publication as television launched in other capital cities and regional areas across Australia. By 1961, there were editions covering every capital city except Hobart, which received Melbourne editions plus a local supplement.\n\n\"TV Week\" introduced a viewer-voted awards from 1958 called the \"Logie Awards\" (after John Logie Baird), so TV Times created the rival Australian Film and Television Awards called the \"Sammy Awards\" from 1976.\n\nWhile \"TV Times\" was arguably regarded as more informative, \"TV Week\" began to lead by adding matte colour internal pages in 1962, while \"TV Times\" did little to stay ahead. In July 1968, when \"TV Week\" moved to a larger format, to match that of \"TV Times\", it immediately looked superior to its rival with glossy colour pages and a cleaner layout. Even when \"TV Times\" became a full-colour publication, the quality was considered inferior to that of \"TV Week\". \n\nIn 1979, Southdown Press introduced a local version of the American \"TV Guide\". In 1980, the ABC elected to end its agreement with ACP, which purchased the ABC's interest in \"TV Times\". ACP entered into a partnership with News Limited, with \"TV Times\" immediately being incorporated into \"TV Week\" and the Australian version of \"TV Guide\" also incorporated that year. The revamped publication continued to be known as \"TV Week\" but was now a joint venture between Australian Consolidated Press and Southdown Press (later Pacific Publications).\n"}
{"id": "50276487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50276487", "title": "Technical details of Netflix", "text": "Technical details of Netflix\n\nNetflix is an American-based company that offers a service for streaming movies and TV series over the Internet. Several technical development efforts were required to provide this service.\n\nInitial DVD discs sent to customers via US mail often received criticisms of being scratched and unable to fully play the rented movie. The popularity of Netflix dramatically increased with the addition of streaming through an online queue. This led to the majority of Netflix users reliably streaming movies and television shows rather than receiving physical DVD discs by mail.\n\nInitially streaming starting in 2007 solely using Microsoft technologies and codecs such as VC-1 for video and Windows Media Audio (WMA) for audio, the rapid expansion and diversity of Netflix-capable devices have necessitated encoding into many different formats – including H.264 (AVC), VC-1, H.263 and H.265 (HEVC) for video, and Dolby Digital, Dolby Digital Plus, Advanced Audio Coding (AAC) and Ogg Vorbis for audio. According to Netflix, the vast number of codec and bitrate combinations can mean having to encode the same title 120 different times before it can be delivered to all streaming platforms.\n\nNetflix uses adaptive bitrate streaming technology to adjust the video and audio quality to match a customer's broadband connection speed and realtime network conditions.\n\nIn 2015, BT's YouView launched Ultra HD channels and a 4K box to watch it on in the UK. As of December 2015, Netflix's 4K catalogue can be watched on BT's Ultra HD box. In order to stream the Ultra HD content, users need the top-tier subscription option.\n\nNetflix provides users the ability to choose their download rates quality of video on its website.\n\nOn October 1, 2008, Netflix offered access to its service via a public application programming interface (API). The Netflix API allows access to data for all Netflix titles as well as access on a user's behalf to manage his or her movie queue. The API was free and allowed commercial use. A developer network included a forum for asking and answering questions.\n\nExamples of using the service included Rotten Tomatoes and \"The New York Times\", which allow users to click to add titles to their Netflix queue or begin watching on \"Watch Instantly\" from their pages, and Jinni, which enabled one to search within Watch Instantly and imported some user information such as reviews.\n\nThe API allowed developers to release Netflix applications for mobile devices. For example, on November 16, 2009, Netflix released an official Nokia app that allowed some trailer streaming, and on August 26, 2010, Netflix released an official iPhone app. \nHowever, in June 2012, Netflix began to cut back the availability of its public API.\nThe company instead focused on a small number of known partners using private interfaces, since most of the traffic came from those private interfaces.\nIn June 2014, Netflix announced that they would be retiring the public API. This became effective November 14, 2014.\nNetflix then partnered with the developers of eight services deemed to have been the most valuable, including Instant Watcher, Fanhattan, Yidio, and Nextguide.\n\nIn 2010, Netflix moved to using Amazon EC2 for its information technology (IT) resources. Master copies of digital films from movie studios are stored on Amazon S3, and each film is encoded into over 50 different versions based on video resolution and audio quality using machines on the cloud. In total, Netflix has over 1 petabyte of data stored on Amazon, and the data is sent to content delivery networks (including Akamai Technologies, Limelight Networks and Level 3 Communications) that feed the content to local ISPs. Netflix uses a number of pieces of open-source software in its backend, including Java, MySQL, Gluster, Apache Tomcat, Hive, Chukwa, Cassandra and Hadoop.\n\nIn June, 2012, a storm in the Eastern US caused power outages in a major Amazon data center. This caused a three-hour downtime in Netflix services, and resulted in some improvements to the Netflix recovery software.\nAnother outage was experienced on December 24, 2012.\n\nNetflix developed several technologies to help manage its IT systems, an area known as DevOps. One tool is called the \"simian army\", which includes the \"Chaos Monkey\". By intentionally creating different failures, the ability to survive them can be tested under controlled conditions before they affect customers. The technology is claimed under at least one patent, filed in 2010 with inventors Gregory S. Orzell and Yury Izrailevsky.\nSimilar approaches were taken in the GameDay software by Jesse Robbins at Amazon.com, \"DIRT\" created by at Google, and others.\nThe related software was made available on GitHub in 2012.\nThis approach has been used for case studies, and as the title of a 2016 memoir on a life in Silicon Valley, \"Chaos Monkeys\".\n\nNetflix settlement freely peers with Internet service providers (ISPs) directly and at common Internet exchange points.\nIn June 2012, a custom content delivery network called Open Connect was announced.\nFor larger ISPs that have over 100,000 subscribers Netflix offers free \"Netflix Open Connect\" server appliances that cache Netflix content within the ISPs' data centers or networks to further reduce Internet transit costs. The Open Connect appliances are purpose-built servers that focus on low power and high storage density, and run the FreeBSD operating system, nginx and the Bird Internet routing daemon.\nBy August 2016, Netflix closed its last physical data center, but continued to develop its Open Connect technology.\n\nA 2016 study at the University of London detected 233 individual locations over six continents, with the largest amount of traffic in the USA, followed by Mexico.\n"}
{"id": "58466992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58466992", "title": "Teknofest Istanbul", "text": "Teknofest Istanbul\n\nTeknofest Istanbul, short for Teknofest Istanbul Aerospace and Technology Festival, is a festival of aviation, aerospace and technology to be held at Istanbul New Airport of Turkey between 20–23 September 2018. Organized by the Turkish Technology Team Foundation (T3), it aims to help develop public awareness for technology especially for the national production. The event is sponsored by government government bodies, private companies and academic institutions.\n\nActivities, which will take place during the festival, are seminars, award-winning technology competitions, exhibitions of domestic technology enterprises, a summit of international venture and aviation demonstrations, including parachuting, air shows of \"Solo Turk\", \"Turkish Stars\" and international professional aviation teams.\n\nTechnology competitions are organized in 12 different categories. A wide range of age groups, from secondary school students to oniversity graduates, are allowed to develop their projects with the help of technical equipment.\n\nFor the contest \"The HackIstanbul 2018 Capture the Flag\", organized in cooperation with the European Cyber Security Organization (ECSO) and Romanian Government, computer hackers from all over the world are expected to compete. For the winners in the first three places, money awards are provided.\n\nAnother award-winning competition is the \"World Drone Cup\" race.\n"}
{"id": "967495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=967495", "title": "The NBC Monday Movie", "text": "The NBC Monday Movie\n\nThe NBC Monday Movie was a television anthology series of films that debuted on February 4, 1963 (in the middle of the 1962-63 season), and ran off on NBC. It was referred to as NBC Monday Night at the Movies prior to the mid-1980s. The show moved to Wednesday nights in 1964 as NBC Wednesday Night at the Movies, and in 1965, the program moved to Tuesdays, under the title The NBC Tuesday Night Movie. The name would henceforth change depending on what night of the week the program was telecast. By 1968, there was once again a weekly NBC Monday Night Movie on the air.\n\nThe idea for the show came about when advertisers opted out of two hour-long shows the network ran on Monday nights for the 1962-1963 season, \"It's A Man's World\" and \"Saints and Sinners\". Presumably, both shows were cancelled due to low audience numbers. Having experienced some success with NBC Saturday Night at the Movies, the network decided to acquire more feature films as a stop-gap measure. A package of 42 movies from 20th Century Fox and 35 titles from MGM were purchased by the network for both its Monday and Saturday night movie series at a cost of $14 million. With a 7:30 pm (EST) start time, the movies of the show's first season were made up of mostly light comedies, an occasional swashbuckler such as \"Prince Valiant\", and musicals. These types of films were also chosen because they typically ran under 100 minutes, the normal running-time for a two-hour movie slot in 1963.\n\nIn the latter years of \"Monday Night Movie's\" run, mostly made-for-TV movies were showcased. The theatrical films were edited for content, to remove objectionable material, and occasionally, but not always, to reduce the film's running time to fit into the two-hour time slot. As all widescreen films were then, they were pan-and-scanned so the image would fit the standard 4:3 television screen (as opposed to letterbox format). An exception was the 1951 film version of \"Show Boat\", which made its television debut on \"NBC Monday Night at the Movies\" in 1972 and had not been filmed in widescreen. The choice of \"Show Boat\" as a movie offering on the program was rather unusual, given the fact that it was, at the time, a twenty-one-year-old film, rather than a recent one.\n\nThe first incarnation of \"NBC Monday Night at the Movies\" lasted from February 1963 until early September 1964. Despite the promise of big name stars each week, the series was no match for the CBS lineup of game shows and sitcoms such as \"The Lucy Show\" and \"The Danny Thomas Show\". In hopes of better ratings and to re-coup some of their investment, the films in the second list below would be re-broadcast on \"NBC Saturday Night at the Movies\" in the late spring and summer of 1964.\n\nUnless otherwise indicated, all films aired from 7:30pm–9:30pm Eastern Time on Monday Nights. The last number in the second list below notes the Nielsen rating the movie received:\n\nThese first sixteen titles (all produced by 20th Century Fox studios) were aired on the following dates:\n\nFrom here through September 9, the above titles were rerun on Monday nights. None of them appeared on NBC's other film series, \"Saturday Night at the Movies\". The second season began below and mixed in MGM titles with those of 20th Century Fox. Like the above-listed films, these were all television premieres. The Nielsen ratings are listed next to the release year of each title.\n\nOne interesting note: There is no entry below for November 25, 1963. This was the Monday after the Friday that President John Kennedy was assassinated. Monday was the date of the state funeral, which was given all-day coverage by the networks. Understandably, NBC thus postponed broadcasting the musical \"Singin' in the Rain\" (originally slated for 11/25/63) until later in the season.\n\n\nFrom here, reruns were shown for the remainder of the season until mid-September 1964, when NBC announced that it would discontinue \"Monday Night at the Movies\". Instead, a new prime-time movie night, Wednesdays, from 9 until 11 p.m. (ET), became the time slot for the network's alternative film anthology during the 1964-65 season while Saturday nights remained a mainstay for NBC's film broadcasts.\n\n"}
{"id": "3481104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3481104", "title": "The New Leave It to Beaver", "text": "The New Leave It to Beaver\n\nThe New Leave It to Beaver (also known as Still the Beaver) is an American sitcom sequel to the original 1957–1963 sitcom \"Leave It to Beaver\". The series began with the 1983 reunion television movie \"Still the Beaver\" that aired on CBS in March 1983.\nThe success of the television movie prompted the creation of a revival series, also titled \"Still the Beaver\", that aired on the Disney Channel from 1984 to 1985. In 1986, the series was picked up by TBS where it aired until June 1989. \n\n\"The New Leave It to Beaver\" is one of the rare examples of a television series revival sequel (not spin-off) that revolves around the characters from the original series. Other examples of this include \"The New WKRP in Cincinnati\" and \"What's Happening Now!!\", as well as the sequel to \"Dallas\" and the two sequel series to \"The Brady Bunch\".\n\nThe series focuses on Wally Cleaver (Tony Dow) and his younger brother, Theodore \"Beaver\" Cleaver (Jerry Mathers) as adults and with families of their own. The Beaver is divorced and living with his mother, the widowed June Cleaver (Barbara Billingsley), along with his two sons, Kip and Oliver. Wally Cleaver lives next door with his wife Mary Ellen, his daughter Kelly and later, his son Kevin. Hugh Beaumont, who played Ward Cleaver in the original series, had died in 1982. His character, Ward, died in 1977.\n\nOther series regulars included Wally's old friend Eddie Haskell (Ken Osmond) and his sons Freddie and Bomber (played by Osmond's two real-life sons), as well as \"Lumpy\" Rutherford (Frank Bank) and his daughter J.J., with Diane Brewster returning for four episodes to recreate her role as \"Miss Canfield,\" Beaver's original grade schoolteacher. Some of Beaver's old friends, Larry Mondello (Rusty Stevens), and Richard Rickover (Rich Correll), return to the series.\n\n\n\nThis season aired on The Disney Channel as \"Still the Beaver\". The season was split into two halves, and could be considered as two separate seasons. Most of the episodes during the second half of the season, which begins with \"Escape from the Salt Mines\", aired during the summer and fall of 1985, which is technically within the span of the 1985-86 TV season. The episode \"Dear Pen Pal II\" was produced to be The Disney Channel's series finale and features only clips from Season 1, but did not actually air until the third season on TBS. \n\nFrom this season onward, the show aired on TBS as \"The New Leave It to Beaver\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2977823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2977823", "title": "Togainu no Chi", "text": "Togainu no Chi\n\nThe game has been adapted into two manga series, a novel and a twelve episode anime series. In March 2010 as part of the Nitro+CHiRAL 5th anniversary an anime adaptation was announced for \"Togainu no Chi\" with production by Aniplex. The anime began airing on MBS and TBS on October 7, 2010. Aniplex of America streamed and simulcast the series in North America on Anime News Network.\n\nAfter being devastated in the third World War (known as The Third Division), Japan was divided in two. Several years after the end of the war, a crime organization called Vischio has taken control of the destroyed city of Toshima (formerly Tokyo, Japan's capital city), where they are holding a battle game known as \"Igura\".\n\n\"Igura\" is a battle game held in Toshima that may result in the murder of participants. To participate, one must meet with Arbitro and tell him their reason for their decision. Upon meeting with Arbitro, participants are given five dog tags, each engraved like a card in a standard deck of playing cards. One tag must hang from the participant's neck as proof of participation. Participants must then put their lives on the line to collect others' tags, with the goal being to collect a Royal Flush. If a participant collects a Royal Flush set of tags, they earn the right to challenge \"Il Re\" in battle. Battles end when one party either dies or lets their back touch the ground. The winner takes the loser's tags and is free to do as they please to the loser after that, often resulting in the loser's death.\n\nThe game's main character, a young man named Akira, is falsely accused of a crime. Once arrested, a mysterious woman appears before him, offering him freedom if he agrees to participate in Igura and defeat Igura's strongest man: the king, or \"Il Re\". The story follows Akira's life in the harsh, lawless Toshima as he fights both to survive and to unravel the mysteries developing around him.\n\nThree drama Cd's were released after the games release on Pc in 2005. \"Togainu no Chi Image drama CD vol 1\" was released July 29, 2005. This drama CD centers around Akira and Shiki's relationship. \"Togainu no Chi Image drama CD vol 2\" was released August 26, 2005. This drama CD centers around Akira and Keisuke's relationship. \"Togainu no Chi ANOTHER STORY ~ RIN\" was released December 29, 2005. This drama CD centers around Rin.\n\nA manga adaptation of Togainu no Chi, illustrated by Suguro Chayamachi, began serialization serialized in \"Comic B's LOG\" in January 2006, and is published by Enterbrain. The manga was licensed for an English-language release in North America by Tokyopop in 2008. Another adaptation was illustrated by Yamamoto Kana and published by ASCII Media Works. This version focuses on Keisuke's storyline. The complete volume was released on July 22, 2008.\n\nA light novel \"Togainu no Chi\" written by Ikumi Kazuha (伊久美和葉) and Nitro+CHiRAL, illustrated by Tatana Kana (たたなかな) and Kazuki Tomomaya (かずきともまや), published by Biblos (ビブロス) was released February 3, 2006. It contained sets of short stories dealing with the characters after the events in the game. An art book titled \"Togainu no Chi True Blood Official Fan Book\" containing game information, character profiles, artwork and voice actors' interviews was released on July 3, 2008.\n\nIn March 2010 as part of the Nitro+CHiRAL 5th anniversary an anime adaptation was announced for \"Togainu no Chi\" with production by Aniplex. The anime began airing on MBS and TBS on October 7, 2010. Aniplex of America will stream and simulcast the series in North America on Anime News Network. The first DVD was released on December 22, 2010.\n\nCHiRALmori was released January 25, 2008 and also known as the Nitro+CHiRAL amusement disk. This PC game includes a Togainu no Chi minigame featuring chibi versions of the characters playing poker with their dog tags as well as two other minigames featuring characters from \"Lamento -Beyond the Void-\".\n\n\"Togainu no Chi Desktop Accessory\" is a program produced by Nitro+chiral that included wallpapers, a screensaver, a silent version of the opening video, a clock of which can be switched to show images of most of the characters, a calendar, and a set of window straps.\n\n"}
{"id": "32869590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32869590", "title": "Toyohashi City Museum of Art and History", "text": "Toyohashi City Museum of Art and History\n\nThe permanent collections of the museum are concentrated around five themes:\n\n\nThe building is a two-story ferroconcrete construction, with two display rooms downstairs and five display rooms upstairs. The museum is in Toyohashi Park, near Yoshida Castle in downtown Toyohashi.\n\n"}
{"id": "39188564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39188564", "title": "Tôn Hiếu Anh", "text": "Tôn Hiếu Anh\n\nTôn Hiếu Anh is a Vietnamese fashion designer, and editor and producer of Fashion Studio on VTV6 (Television Program).\n\nHe was a model from 1994 to 2000, then moved into design, winning the 2nd prize of fashion contest 24/7 of the British Council in 2002, and 1st prize of Dep Fair 2005.\n"}
{"id": "32100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32100", "title": "Urban exploration", "text": "Urban exploration\n\nUrban exploration (often shortened as UE, urbex and sometimes known as roof-and-tunnel hacking) is the exploration of man-made structures, usually abandoned ruins or not usually seen components of the man-made environment. Photography and historical interest/documentation are heavily featured in the hobby and, although it may sometimes involve trespassing onto private property, this is not always the case. Urban exploration may also be referred to as draining (an alternate form of urban exploring where drains are explored), urban spelunking, urban rock climbing, urban caving, or building hacking.\n\nThe nature of this activity presents various risks, including both physical danger and, if done illegally and/or without permission, the possibility of arrest and punishment. Some activities associated with urban exploration violate local or regional laws and certain broadly interpreted anti-terrorism laws, or can be considered trespassing or invasion of privacy.\n\nVentures into abandoned structures are perhaps the most common example of urban exploration. At times, sites are entered first by locals and may suffer from large amounts of graffiti and other acts of vandalism, while other locations may be better preserved. Although targets of exploration vary from one country to another, high-profile abandonments include amusement parks, grain elevators, factories, power plants, missile silos, fallout shelters, hospitals, asylums, schools, poor houses, and sanatoriums.\n\nIn Japan, abandoned infrastructure is known as (literally \"ruins\"), but the term is synonymous with the practice of urban exploration. are particularly common in Japan because of its rapid industrialization (e.g., Hashima Island), damage during World War II, the 1980s real estate bubble, and the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami.\n\nMany explorers find decay of uninhabited space to be profoundly beautiful, and some are also proficient freelance photographers who document what they see, as is the case with those who document some of the infrastructure of the former USSR.\n\nAbandoned sites are also popular among historians, preservationists, architects, archaeologists, industrial archaeologists, and ghost hunters.\n\nAnother aspect of urban exploration is the practice of exploring active or \"in use\" buildings which includes gaining access, by various means, to secured or \"member-only\" areas, mechanical rooms, roofs, elevator rooms, abandoned floors, and other normally unseen parts of working buildings. The term \"infiltration\" is often associated with the exploration of active structures. People entering restricted areas may be committing trespass, and civil prosecution may result.\n\nCatacombs such as those found in Paris, Rome, Odessa, and Naples have been investigated by urban explorers. The Mines of Paris, comprising much of the underground tunnels that are not open to public tourism like the catacombs, have been considered the \"Holy Grail\" by some due to their extensive nature and history. Explorers of these spaces are known as cataphiles.\n\nEntry into storm drains, or \"draining\", is another common form of urban exploration. Groups devoted to the task have arisen, such as the Cave Clan in Australia. Draining has a specialized set of guidelines, the foremost of which is \"When it rains, no drains!\" The dangers of becoming entrapped, washed away, or killed increase dramatically during a heavy rainfall.\n\nA small subset of explorers enter sanitary sewers. Sometimes they are the only connection to caves or other subterranean features. Sewers are among the most dangerous locations to explore owing to risk of poisoning by buildups of toxic gas (commonly methane and hydrogen sulfide).\n\nExploring active and abandoned subway and underground railway tunnels, bores, and stations is often considered to be trespassing and can result in civil prosecution, due to security concerns. As a result, this type of exploration is rarely publicized. An important exception to this is the abandoned subway of Rochester, New York, the only American city to have an abandoned, formerly used, subway system. The Cincinnati subway is also abandoned, but was never completed and placed into service.\n\nUniversities, and other large institutions such as hospitals, often distribute hazardous superheated steam for heating or cooling buildings from a central heating plant. These pipes are generally run through utility tunnels, which are often intended to be accessible solely for the purposes of maintenance. Nevertheless, many of these steam tunnels, especially those on college campuses, often also have a tradition of exploration by students. This practice was once called \"vadding\" at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, though students there now refer to it as roof and tunnel hacking.\n\nSome steam tunnels have dirt floors, poor lighting and temperatures upwards of . Others have concrete floors, bright light, and more moderate temperatures. Most steam tunnels have large intake fans to bring in fresh air and push the hot air out the back, and these fans may start without warning. Most active steam tunnels do not contain airborne asbestos, but proper breathing protection may be required for other respiratory hazards. Experienced explorers are very cautious inside active utility tunnels, since pipes can spew boiling hot water or steam from leaky valves or pressure relief blowoffs. Frequently there are puddles of muddy water on the floor, making slips and falls a special concern near hot pipes.\n\nSteam tunnels have generally been secured more heavily in recent years, due to their frequent use for carrying communications network backbone cables, increased safety and liability concerns, and perceived risk of their use in terrorist activities.\n\nThe rise in the popularity of urban exploration can be attributed to its increased media attention. Recent television shows, such as \"Urban Explorers\" on the Discovery Channel, \"MTV's Fear\", and the \"Ghost Hunting\" exploits of The Atlantic Paranormal Society have packaged the hobby for a popular audience. The fictional film \"After...\" (2006), a hallucinatory thriller set in Moscow's underground subways, features urban explorers caught up in extreme situations. Talks and exhibits on urban exploration have appeared at the fifth and sixth Hackers on Planet Earth Conference, complementing numerous newspaper articles and interviews.\n\nAnother source of popular information is \"Cities of the Underworld\", a documentary series which ran for three seasons on the History Channel, starting in 2007. This series roamed around the world, showing little-known underground structures in remote locales, as well as right under the feet of densely packed city-dwellers.\n\nIn April 2014, an article was posted by Buzzfeed on abandoned malls across the United States, which featured works by Cleveland-based photographer Johnny Joo among others. This article rose to over 2 million views overnight, and could most likely be cited as one that brought attention of urban exploration and abandoned places more to the public eye.\n\nWith the rise in the relative popularity of the hobby due to this increased focus, there has been increasing discussion on whether the extra attention has been beneficial to urban exploration as a whole. The unspoken rule of urban exploring is \"take nothing but photographs, leave nothing but footprints\", but because of the rising popularity, many individuals who may have other intentions are creating a concern among many property owners.\n\nUrban exploration is a hobby that comes with a number of inherent dangers. For example, storm drains are not designed with human access as their primary use. They can be subject to flash flooding and bad air. There have been a number of deaths in storm water drains, but these are usually during floods, and the victims are normally not urban explorers.\n\nMany old abandoned structures feature hazards such as unstable structures, unsafe floors, broken glass, the presence of unknown chemicals and other harmful substances (most notably asbestos), stray voltage, and entrapment hazards. Other risks include freely roaming guard dogs and hostile squatters. Some abandoned locations may be heavily guarded with motion detectors and active security patrols, while others are more easily accessible and carry less risk of discovery.\n\nAsbestos is a long-term health risk for urban explorers, along with breathing in contaminants from dried bird feces, which can cause a condition known as pigeon-breeder's lung, a form of hypersensitivity pneumonitis. Urban explorers may use dust masks and respirators to alleviate this danger. Some sites are occasionally used by substance abusers for either recreation or waste disposal, and there may be used or infected syringe needles en route, such as those commonly used with heroin.\n\nThe growing popularity of the activity has resulted not just in increased attention from explorers, but also from vandals and law enforcement. The illicit aspects of urban exploring, which may include trespassing and breaking and entering, have brought along with them critical articles in mainstream newspapers.\n\nIn Australia, the website of the Sydney Cave Clan was shut down by lawyers for the Roads and Traffic Authority of New South Wales, after they raised concerns that the portal could \"risk human safety and threaten the security of its infrastructure\". Another website belonging to the Bangor Explorers Guild was criticized by the Maine State Police for potentially encouraging behavior that \"could get someone hurt or killed\". The Toronto Transit Commission has used the Internet to crimp subway tunnel explorations, going as far as to send investigators to various explorers' homes.\n\nJeff Chapman, who authored \"Infiltration\", stated that genuine urban explorers \"never vandalize, steal or damage anything\". The thrill comes from that of \"discovery and a few nice pictures\". Some explorers will also request permission for entry in advance.\n\n\"Rooftopping\" refers to the ascent of rooftops, cranes, antennas, smokestacks, etc., usually illegally, and for the purpose of getting an adrenaline rush and taking selfie photos or videos and panoramic photographs of the scene below. It is chiefly an undertaking of millennials seeking social-media exposure, and has been especially popular in Russia.\n\nMany urban explorers adhere to the philosophy of cave explorers and outdoors hikers: \"Take nothing but pictures. Leave nothing but footprints.\" Some are photographers who specialize in documenting urban ruins and scenes of industrial decay. Professional photographers working in this field include Julia Solis, Rebecca Lilith Bathory Johnny Joo and Andrew L. Moore. Other well-known photographers, such as Jan Saudek, use the interiors of abandoned buildings as backdrops for their figurative and portrait works.\n\nSome urban explorers use head-cams such as GoPro or other helmet cameras for videos.\n\nSome also use quadcopter drones for exploration and recording.\n\nThe location-based games \"Ingress\" and the following \"Pokémon Go\" based on the former have urban exploration elements. While some are concerned with keeping certain sites secret from the public at large, mainly to prevent vandalism, several apps dedicated to urban exploration exist.\n\nUrban exploration is featured in a number of works, in a variety of media, such as:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15289191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15289191", "title": "XBIZ", "text": "XBIZ\n\nXBIZ is an American publisher of business news and business information for the sex industry.\n\nIn addition to its flagship \"Xbiz.com\" website, XBIZ publishes two monthly trade magazines, hosts winter and summer exhibition and industry conferences, as well as facilitates networking among adult online professionals through a business-to-business (B2B) professional networking service. XBIZ company representatives are frequently cited in mainstream media articles about business trends and practices in the industry.\n\nXBIZ and its affiliated publications and services are operated by Adnet Media, which was founded in 1998 by adult-internet industry veteran Alec Helmy. Helmy is a founder of the Association of Sites Advocating Child Protection (ASACP).\n\n\n\nXBIZ gives annual industry awards in adult entertainment.\n\n"}
{"id": "33522042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33522042", "title": "X Femmes", "text": "X Femmes\n\nX Femmes (English: \"X Women\") is a French television series of short films shown on Canal+ in 2008–2009. They were shot by female directors with the goal of producing erotica, soft-core pornography and hard-core pornography from a female point of view.\n\n\n1. \"Le bijou indiscret\" (\"The jewel indiscreet\"). Director: Arielle Dombasle. Stars: Arielle Dombasle, Jérémie Elkaïm and Paz de la Huerta\n\n2. \"Se faire prendre au jeu\" (\"Getting to the game\"). Director: Lola Doillon. Stars: Laureen Langendorff and Dominique Viger\n\n3. \"Peep show heros\" (\"Peep show heroes\"). Director: Helena Noguerra. Stars: Axelle Parker, William and Myke Glory\n\n4. \"Enculées\" (\"Fucked\"). Director: Laetitia Masson. Stars: Hélène Fillières, Valentine Catzéflis and Camille de Sablet\n\n5. \"Vous désirez?\" (\"You want?\"). Director: Caroline Loeb. Stars: Alexandra, Béa and Pierre Blanche\n\n6. \"À ses pieds\" (\"At her feet\"). Director: Mélanie Laurent. Stars: Fanny Krish, Marc Ruchmann, Lou Charmelle and Déborah Révy\n\n\n1. \"Samedi soir\" (\"Saturday night\"). Director: Zoe Cassavetes. Stars: Alexandre Marouani and Laëtizia Venezia Tarnowska\n\n2. \"Pour elle\" (\"For her\"). Director: Blanca Li. Stars: Victoria Abril\n\n3. \"Le beau sexe\" (\"The fairer sex\"). Director: Tonie Marshall. Stars: Miko Angelo, Philippe Elkoubi and Marie Pape\n\n4. \"Les filles\" (\"Girls\"). Director: Anna Mouglalis\n\n\n"}
