{"id": "53235598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53235598", "title": "3rd National Geographic Bee", "text": "3rd National Geographic Bee\n\nThe 3rd National Geographic Bee was held in Washington, D.C. on May 23, 1991, sponsored by the National Geographic Society. The final competition was moderated by \"Jeopardy!\" host Alex Trebek. The winner was David Stillman of Craigmont, Idaho, who won a $25,000 college scholarship. The 2nd-place winner, Carlos De La Fuente of Chandler, Arizona, won a $15,000 scholarship. The 3rd-place winner, Eliot Brenner of Richmond, Virginia, won a $10,000 scholarship.\n\n"}
{"id": "8220792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8220792", "title": "A477 road", "text": "A477 road\n\nThe A477 is a major road in South Pembrokeshire and Carmarthenshire connecting St Clears and Johnston. Its route includes the Cleddau Bridge, a toll bridge linking Pembroke Dock and Neyland.\n\nFrom the A40 in St Clears, the A477 is a trunk road with primary status as far as the Waterloo roundabout in Pembroke Dock, on the southeast side of the Milford Haven Waterway. Responsibility for the management and maintenance of this section lies with the South Wales Trunk Road Agent on behalf of the Welsh Assembly Government. From there the responsibility for maintaining the A477 is held by Pembrokeshire County Council.\n\nA route from St Clears to Pembroke Dock was first surveyed by Thomas Telford in 1826, as part of a review of the route of the mail service from London to Ireland that at the time went via the docks at Milford Haven. A decision was taken in 1827 to move the mail port from Milford Haven to Hobbs Point in Pembroke Dock, and to pursue the access route from St Clears to Pembroke Dock. By 1830, a section of the road between the villages of Llanddowror and Red Roses had been completed. A levy on mail passing through Milford was introduced by the Postage Act 1836, to be used to fund the new route. The full route was completed in 1839, running from St Clears via Llanddowror, Red Roses, Llanteg, Begelly and Carew to Pembroke Dock.\n\nRoad designations were first allocated by the Ministry of Transport in 1922 with the road between Red Roses and Pembroke Dock being designated the A477. The section between St Clears and Red Roses, which was originally part of the A40, was redesignated the A477 by the early 1930s.\n\nThe 22-mile section of the road from its start at St Clears as far as Nashwhich is a convenient distribution point for places on the south side of Milford Havenwas promoted to a trunk road following an announcement by the (then) Secretary of State for Wales, Cledwyn Hughes, on 14 November 1966. A further from Nash to Waterloo roundabout in Pembroke Dock were upgraded to trunk road in 1982.\n\nThe Kilgetty-Begelly bypass was completed in 1984 at a cost of £14.2 million. The Sageston-Redberth bypass was completed in 2002 at a cost of £6.4 million.\nA new bypass improvement scheme for the section of the A477 between St Clears and Red Roses was approved by the Welsh Government on 27 January 2012. Construction work on the new bypass began in mid 2012. Constructed with a straighter alignment and bypassing the villages of Red Roses and Llanddowror, the new section was scheduled to open during May 2014 but opened to general traffic at around 12:25 pm on 16 April 2014 having previously been declared open earlier in the day by Edwina Hart, Welsh Assembly Member for Transport.\n\nThe A477 is in length. From east to west, it runs either through, near or over:\n\nThe Cleddau Bridge is funded by tolls which are collected at Pembroke Dock from traffic in both directions. Pedestrians and cyclists are free of charge.\n\nThey are, since 1993, 35p for motorcycles, 75p for cars, £1.50 for heavy vehicles. Car drivers may also buy books of 20 or 50 bridge tickets which reduces the cost to 60p per crossing. The toll booths only accept cash or the pre-purchased tickets. Toll booths with barriers were introduced in September 2004 to reduce the number of vehicles driving through without paying.\n\nA review was carried out in early 2016, when Pembrokeshire County Councillors voted that all toll charges would remain unchanged and would not be abolished.. In October 2018, the County Council and the Welsh Assembly Government agree to abolish tolls on the Cleddau Bridge from April 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24954421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24954421", "title": "A Field Guide to Nests and Eggs of Australian Birds", "text": "A Field Guide to Nests and Eggs of Australian Birds\n\nA Field Guide to Nests and Eggs of Australian Birds is a guide to the identification of the nests and eggs of Australian birds, authored by Gordon Beruldsen.\n\nPublished in 1980 by Rigby of Adelaide, South Australia, in its series of field guides to Australian natural history, the book is 190 mm high by 130 mm wide. It consists of three parts; Part One contains general information; Part Two contains separate keys to the identification of nests and eggs, as well as the colour plates that illustrate them; Part Three, comprising three-quarters of the book’s contents, contains the individual species descriptions.\n\nA second and revised edition (), with the new title Australian Birds their Nests and Eggs, was produced and issued by the author in 2003 from his home in Kenmore Hills, Brisbane. Its dimensions are 209 mm in height by 147 mm in width. It is a paperback, xvi + 424 pages in length, contains updated information and includes new photographic colour plates of the eggs as well as other additional photographs.\n\n"}
{"id": "43871359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43871359", "title": "Alfred Thomas Grove", "text": "Alfred Thomas Grove\n\nAlfred Thomas Grove (born 1924) is a British geographer and climatologist. He is Emeritus Fellow of Downing College, Cambridge and was former Director of the Centre of African Studies at the University of Cambridge. Grove researched Environmental Issues and Policy and the landscape change in southern Europe and Climate change and desertification with a focus on Africa and southern Europe.\n\n1949-1982 he was Lecturer at the Department of Geography, University of Cambridge and from 1980-1986 Director of the Centre for African Studies. 1963-1991 he was appointed fellow of the Downing College. He has written a number of books, including \"Africa South of the Sahara\", and various books about the Little Ice Age in Europe. So together (with Jean Grove) 'Little Ice Ages Ancient and Modern', 2004 and The \"Little Ice Age\" and its geomorphological consequences in Mediterranean Europe' and together with Oliver Rackham'The Nature of Mediterranean Europe', an important contribution to environmental history. With regard to the alleged tragedy of the commons and neomalthusian approaches e.g. of Garrett Hardin he denounced Hardins interpretation of the failure of commons as the one of \"an American with no notion at all how Commons actually work\".\nWhile Grove does support increasing evidence of human activity is causing global warming, he sees definite and conclusive evidence in the field of climate change as almost an impossibility. Nevertheless, his consideration of the problem in his 2010 paper leads him to the conclusion that despite this inherent uncertainty, the evidence that human activity is causing global warming is substantial, and that it is therefore 'safer to act, to mitigate and adapt with the aim of slowing down change'. In his work about Mediterranean Europe he doubts the common wisdom of a 'Lost Eden,' a formerly fertile region, that had been progressively degraded and desertified by human mismanagement. The simplistic, environmental determinist notion of a Mediterranean Paradise on Earth in antiquity, which was destroyed by destructive later civilizations dates however back to at least the eighteenth century and was fashionable in archaeological and historical circles for centuries. However the authors argue that this believe stems from the failure of the recent landscape to measure up to the imaginary past as idealized by artists, poets and scientists of the early modern Enlightenment. Grove and Rackham tried to track the evolution of climate, vegetation and landscape in southern Europe from prehistoric times till present and point out that climate has usually been unstable and plant cover accommodated to various extremes and became resilient with regard to various patterns of human activity. The authors assume that people had already transformed most parts of Mediterranean Europe 4,000 years ago and the “humanization of the landscape” overlapped with the appearance of the present Mediterranean climate. In so far humanization was not the cause of climate change. To the contrary, the wide ecological diversity typical of Mediterranean Europe was man made. The greatest human induced changes came since World War II as rural populations throughout the region abandoned traditional subsistence economies and left the traditional agricultural patterns towards setting sceneries for travelers, which resulted in more monotonous, large-scale formations. As real threats to Mediterranean landscapes they see the overdevelopment of coastal areas, abandonment of mountains and the already mentioned loss of traditional acricultural occupations.\n\nGrove married Jean Mary Clark (1927–2001), herself a renowned glaciologist and climate historian and sister of Margaret Spufford. They had six children, among them Richard Grove. Grove is among the trustees of the Jean Grove Trust in Cambridge, a small Roman Catholic charity which funds the education of children in Ethiopia through direct links with four schools in different parts of the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1552345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1552345", "title": "American Congress on Surveying and Mapping", "text": "American Congress on Surveying and Mapping\n\nThe former American Congress on Surveying and Mapping (ACSM) was an international professional association representing the interests of those engaged in measuring and communicating spatial data relating to the Earth's surface. Until recently, ACSM was composed of only two autonomous professional societies, namely:\n\n\nIn 2012, ACSM legally merged into the NSPS. But it still considers AAGS to be a closely affiliated member organization. During the 2000s two previous member organizations of ACSM, namely the Cartographic and Geographic Information Society (CaGIS,) first, and then later on, the Geographic and Land Information Society (GLIS) removed themselves more or less from ACSM. \n\nHowever, GLIS still has some affiliation with NSPS, via their occasional contributions to a former ACSM publications: the quarterly Surveying and Land Information Science (SaLIS) technical journal which is now officially published by the NSPS but also continues to publish submissions from AAGS as well. They also previously contributed to the bimonthly \"Bulletin\", which is no longer in publication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8440529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8440529", "title": "Border irregularities of the United States", "text": "Border irregularities of the United States\n\nBorder irregularities of the United States, particularly panhandles and highway incursions into other jurisdictions, are shown here. Often they are a result of borders which do not conform to geological features.\n\nThere are several exclaves between the United States and Canada, including the entire state of Alaska (though the state can still be accessed by sea from the United States). Other exclaves include Akwesasne, the Northwest Angle, and Point Roberts. \n\nThe status of the waters around Nunez Rocks is disputed. Nunez Rocks is a low-tide elevation (\"bare at half-tide\") area (LTE) that is south of a line known as the \"A-B\" Line, which was defined in a 1903 arbitration decision on the Alaska–Canada boundary. The court specified the initial boundary point (Point \"A\") at the northern end of Dixon Entrance and Point \"B\" to the east. Canada relies on the \"A-B\" Line as rendering nearly all of Dixon Entrance as Canadian internal waters. The U.S. does not recognize the \"A-B\" Line as an official boundary, instead regarding it as allocating sovereignty over the land masses within the Dixon Entrance, with Canada's land south of the line. The U.S. regards the waters as subject to international marine law, and in 1977 it defined an equidistant territorial sea throughout Dixon Entrance. This territory, which surrounds Nunez Rocks, extends south of the \"A-B\" line for the most part. The United States has not ratified the Law of the Sea Treaty, although it adheres to most of its principles as customary international law. Under the treaty, LTEs may be used as basepoints for a territorial sea, and the U.S. uses Nunez Rocks as a basepoint. As a non-signatory, however, there is nothing preventing the U.S. from claiming areas beyond the scope of the Law of the Sea Treaty. The fact remains that, for about half of each day, above-water territory that Canada regards as Canadian is surrounded by sea territory that the U.S. has declared to be American.\n\nAnother disputed area is the Grey Zone, including Machias Seal Island, in the Gulf of Maine.\n\nThe Aroostook Valley Country Club is a golf course which straddles the Canada–US border, between the U.S. state of Maine and the Canadian province of New Brunswick. The club, located near Perth-Andover, New Brunswick and Fort Fairfield, Maine, has its course (except part of the tee area for the ninth hole, and possibly part of a sand trap on the first hole) and clubhouse on the Canadian side of the border and its parking lot and pro shop on the American side. \n\nEast Richford Slide Road in the US state of Vermont crosses in to the Canadian province of Québec for a distance of approximately 100 meters (300 feet) before returning to the United States.\n\nIn Texas and Mexico, shifts in the course of the lower Rio Grande have created numerous pene-exclaves. Under the Boundary Treaty of 1970 and earlier treaties, the United States and Mexico have maintained the actual course of the river as the international boundary, but both must approve proposed changes. From 1989 to 2009, there were 128 locations where the river changed course, causing land that had been on one side of the river to then occupy the opposite bank. Until the boundary is officially changed, there are 60 small pene-exclaves of the state of Texas now lying on the southern side of the river, as well as 68 such pene-exclaves of Mexico on the northern side of the river.\n\nThe legal status of the US-Russian border is unclear. The United States Senate ratified a treaty setting the boundary with the Soviet Union in 1991. However, shortly after, the Soviet Union collapsed, and the Russian parliament never voted on the treaty.\n\nThe boundary between the United States and Cuba is a maritime boundary along the Straits of Florida. Despite tense relations between the countries, the United States operates a military base in Cuba, Guantanamo Bay. The land on which this military base sits is not sovereign United States territory; rather, it is leased from the Cuban Government.\n\n\nThese border irregularities were caused by changes in the Mississippi River during the 1812 New Madrid earthquake or other river changes:\n\n\nOther irregularities involving the Mississippi River: \n\n\nSome highways are not connected to the rest of their nominal highway systems:\n"}
{"id": "31050457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31050457", "title": "Chinese Destinies", "text": "Chinese Destinies\n\nChinese Destinies (1933) is a collection of essays about China and Chinese lives by Agnes Smedley, a left-wing journalist. Along with another book called \"China's Red Army Marches\", it was covertly circulated in Guomindang-ruled China, both in English and in Chinese translations.\n"}
{"id": "31679093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31679093", "title": "Coastal sediment supply", "text": "Coastal sediment supply\n\nCoastal sediment supply is the transport of sediment to the beach environment by both fluvial and aeolian transport. While aeolian transport plays a role in the overall sedimentary budget for the coastal environment, it is paled in comparison to the fluvial supply which makes up 95% of sediment entering the ocean. When sediment reaches the coast it is then entrained by longshore drift and littoral cells until it is accreted upon the beach or dunes.\nWhile it is acknowledged that storm systems are the driver behind coastal erosion. There is a general consensus that human activity, mainly dam and reservoir impoundments on rivers are the cause of indirect human related coastal erosion, along with other local scale effects such as: land use change, irrigation, gravel extraction and river re-alignment.\n\nWorldwide, rivers discharge approximately 35x10 km of freshwater into the ocean annually. Transported in this freshwater is 15 to 20 x 10 tons of sediment. This sediment load is not proportionally distributed across the worlds rivers, with Asian and Oceanic regions being among those most significantly affected by changing sediment regimes, as they account for 75% of this global sediment budget.\n\nThese changing rates of supply/replenishment from the fluvial environment are a dominant factor in controlling the rate of coastal erosion. While sediment supply is actually increasing, due to increased erosion rates, the supply of this sediment to the coastal environment is decreasing.\n\nFluvial systems are key elements for operating Earth surface change because they convey most of the global fluxes of water and sediment from land to oceans. Human activities can affect the discharge of water and sediment from a river to the coastal environment in many ways. Deforestation and agriculture, as well as urbanization can increase the erosion of a river basin by as much as an order of magnitude. Freshly exposed soil is much less likely to resist erosion by rainfall or moving water, especially in areas where land is often used for agriculture and precipitation is high.\n\nSince the 1950s the number of dams in the world has increased more than sevenfold. The creation of reservoirs has significantly reduced the sediment yield of many rivers as sediment that was entrained in the flow is stopped by a manmade barrier and the energy required to transport the material is lost, the sediment is no longer entrained as there is no flow or the flow is too slow.\n\nRemoval of water for irrigation reduces river flow and also plays its part in reducing the sediment carrying capacity of a river. Agricultural and farming practices often require intensive irrigation systems to achieve appropriate production levels. This creates a high demand on waterways as water is diverted and used to irrigate crops and pasture. This decreases the flow rate within the river system, which in turn lowers the sediment carrying capacity of the river as the energy within is less. Sediment is deposited along the reach of the river and takes much longer to reach the coastal zone if at all.\n\nThis changing coastal sediment supply regime leads to predominantly erosional outcomes but it is a case by case, river by river scenario. There are areas where the coastal sediment flux has increased and accretion of the shoreline has been evident. The effects of changing sediment flux can be very localised but pronounced, below are examples within the Bohai Sea. The Yellow River delta is undergoing an accretion phase while 200 km across the sea the Laun River area has experienced increased erosion rates along the coastline as a result of the changing sediment input.\n\nThe Yellow River transports an order of magnitude more sediment than it did prior to widespread cultivation of the loess plateaus in northern China, about 2400 years ago. One implication of this large increase in the sediment discharge of Asian rivers has been the increased shoreward accretion of some deltaic areas over the past several millennia. The Yellow River Delta has accreted 100s of km over the past few decades. Building the coastline at a rate greater than sea level rise and depositing sediment faster than erosional processes can remove it. Mankind in Asia is occupying land areas that may not have existed if not for the increased upstream erosion and delivery of the sediment to the coastal environment.\n\nCoastal erosion/retreat has wide-ranging implications for human habitat. With 45% of the world’s population living within 100 km of a coastline. The decline of sediment supply to the coast generally results in increased rates of erosion as there is no nourishment of the beach profile. Over time as storm systems ‘attack’ the coastline removing sediment to offshore bars or from the system altogether a real issue develops in how to slow the advancing ocean and protect coastal developments.\n\nSince the completion of construction of two large dams on the Luan River in 1979, its annual sediment delivery to the Bohai Sea has been cut from 20.2 million tons to an annual sediment flux of only 1.9 million tons. This sharp reduction in sediment discharge has been accompanied by phase shift of the Luan River Delta into para-abandonment. This drop in sediment yield has inevitably altered the longshore transport equilibrium in the local coastal area. With prevailing northward winds, shoreline retreat rates north of the Luan River have increased from 1 m/y to 3.7 m/y over twenty-year period since dam construction, rapidly changing the morphology and beach profile via positive feedback until a new equilibrium was reached, at which the present retreat is back at its original 1 m/y. With a longshore drift equilibrium was reached within a new state.\n\nThe effects of changing sediment flux were a definite compounding factor in the havoc brought upon New Orleans in 2005 by Hurricane Katrina. The Mississippi River Delta is slowly sinking due to natural compaction and its sediment supply from up river being greatly diminished by up to 50%, due to dam construction in the Mississippi Basin. The loss of sediment supply has resulted in subsidence of the delta and wetland reduction. Fresh sediment is not deposited at a rate fast enough for vegetation to grow on as sea level rises. The brackish conditions that are essential for vegetation growth on the delta are no longer. These coastal wetlands are vital for the diverse wildlife habitat that lives among them, and for protecting developed areas from storm surges, like the one experienced during Katrina.\n\nThis is a short term fix for a long term problem. It treats the immediate symptoms of coastal erosion by dumping of sand either just off shore or on the berm itself, It can be a costly and time consuming process as it requires upkeep on regular bases. While it may look aesthetically pleasing it does not fix the problem at hand, the beach has lost its source of natural nourishment. Artificial nourishment is an appropriate short term solution on small scale restoration projects.\n\nHumans are simultaneously increasing the availability of sediment for fluvial transportation through activities and practices that increase soil erosion, and decreasing this flux to the coastal environment through retention of sediment behind reservoir walls and decreasing river discharge rates. The net result is a global reduction in the overall sediment flux. This impact on coastal erosion will be further accelerated as the sea level rises, which is anticipated because of climate change. Given the modern levels of fluvial sediment loads, over 100 billion tons of sediment have been sequestered behind human-made reservoirs. This gives reason for the effects of changes in the upstream fluvial environment to be included into the Integrated coastal zone management framework. Planners and decision makers must consider what the impacts of upstream development will have on the coastal environment. The management of the coastal zone must account for both the effect of human activities as well as the impacts resulting from corresponding changes in the coastal zone.\n\n"}
{"id": "872026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=872026", "title": "Diyar Bakr", "text": "Diyar Bakr\n\nDiyār Bakr (\"abode of Bakr\") is the medieval Arabic name of the northernmost of the three provinces of the Jazira (Upper Mesopotamia), the other two being Diyar Mudar and Diyar Rabi'a. According to al-Baladhuri, all three provinces were named after the main Arab tribes that were settled there by Mu'awiyah in the course of the Muslim conquests of the 7th century. The Diyar Bakr was settled by the Rabi'a subgroup of the Banu Bakr, and hence the two provinces are sometimes referred to collectively as \"Diyar Rabi'a\". In later Turkish usage, \"Diyar Bakr\" referred to the western portion of the former province, around Amid (which hence became known as Diyarbakır in Turkish).\n\nDiyar Bakr encompasses the region on both banks of the upper course of the river Tigris, from its sources to approximately where its course changes from a west-east to a southeasterly direction. Its main city was Amida (Amid in Arabic), and other major settlements included Mayyafariqin, Hisn Kaifa, and Arzan. Geographically and politically, in early Islamic times the Diyar Bakr was usually part of the Jazira, but it was sometimes joined to the Armenian province to the north. In the late 9th century, it was controlled by an autonomous dynasty founded by Isa ibn al-Shaykh al-Shaybani. In the mid-10th century, the region passed into the hands of the Hamdanids, but their rule was contested by the Buyids (978–983) and after that the Marwanids. The Marwanid emirate ruled the region for almost a century before being annexed by the Seljuq Empire in 1084–1085. Following the Seljuq realm's collapse after the death of Malik-Shah I in 1092, a series of small emirates established itself across the region, with the Artukids of Mardin the most important among them. In the late 12th century, the province came under Ayyubid control, and in the mid-13th century it was divided between the Ayyubids in the east and the Seljuqs of Rum, who controlled the western portion around Amida. Around 1260, the region was conquered by the Mongols, who allowed the local rulers to continue to exercise power as their vassals. In the 14th century, the region was conquered by the Ak Koyunlu, who disputed control with the Kara Koyunlu and the last Ayyubid princes. In the early 16th century, it was for a time occupied by the Safavids before coming under Ottoman control in 1516.\n"}
{"id": "28856397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28856397", "title": "Eastern Poland", "text": "Eastern Poland\n\nEastern Poland is a macroregion in Poland comprising Lublin, Podkarpackie, Podlaskie, Świętokrzyskie and Warmian-Masurian voivodeships.\n\nThe make-up of the distinct macroregion is based not only of geographical criteria, but also economical: in 2005, these five voivodeships has the lowest GDP per capita in the enlarged European Union. On this basis, the macroregion is subject to special additional support with European funds under the Eastern Poland Economic Promotion Programme over 20072013.\n\nIn 20122013, the macroregion was the subject of an advertising campaign, Why didn't you invest in Eastern Poland?, which was to raise awareness of and increase investment in the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "3280313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3280313", "title": "Ecological imperialism", "text": "Ecological imperialism\n\nEcological imperialism is the theory advanced first by Alfred Crosby that European settlers were successful in colonization of other regions because of their accidental or deliberate introduction of animals, plants, and disease leading to major shifts in the ecology of the colonized areas and to population collapses in the endemic peoples. The many pathogens they carried with them adversely affected the native populations of North America, Australia, and Africa, and were far more destructive than weaponry: it is estimated that disease wiped out up to 90 percent of indigenous people in some locations. \n\nIn the early 16th century, Spanish conquistador Hernán Cortés led an expedition to what is now Mexico, which resulted in the total destruction of the Aztec Empire within just two years (February 1519 – August 1521). Notwithstanding the Europeans' superior weaponry and Horses, it is believed that the arrival of smallpox in the Americas in 1520 weakened the resistance the Aztecs people were able to mount.\n\nIn 1607, English settlers arrived in North America and established the Jamestown colony in Virginia. Though at first it seemed the colonists would not survive the harsh conditions of the New World, ultimately it was the natives who could not survive the diseases of the Old World. \"The colonizers brought along plants and animals new to the Americas, some by design and others by accident. Determined to farm in a European manner, the colonists introduced their domesticated livestock—honeybees, pigs, horses, mules, sheep, and cattle—and their domesticated plants, including wheat, barley, rye, oats, grasses, and grapevines. But the colonists also inadvertently carried pathogens, weeds, and rats.\" The introduction of these foreign species upset the balance of native species and severely hurt the way of life of the native population. \n\nThe first major smallpox outbreak among natives was between 1616 and 1619 in Massachusetts. Native Americans had never seen a disease like this, and it wiped out entire settlements in nations such as the Abenaki, the Pawtucket, and the Wampanoag. \"By wiping out the Indians, smallpox helped the colonists help themselves to land and resources formerly controlled by unfriendly native people. The Europeans could and did colonize virtually unchallenged in some areas.\" In 1633 there was another devastating epidemic. William Bradford, governor of the Plymouth Colony, observed that: \"They lye on their hard matts, ye pox breaking and muttering, and running one into another, their skin cleaving (by reason thereof) to the matts they lye on; when they turn them, a whole side with flea off at once...and they will be all of a gore blood, most fearful to behold. Then being very sore, what with cold and other distempers, they dye like rotten sheep.\" Syphilis was also extremely devastating, and ran rampant when brought back to the Old World.\n\nThe fur trade was as detrimental to the survival of native people as it was imperative to the success of settlers due the high European demand. Trappers employed natives because of their knowledge of the terrain and wildlife, putting natives with no immunity to European diseases into close contact with Europeans.\n\nThe fur trade also upset the ecological balance of North America. \"Restraint wasn't a hallmark of the fur trade. In 1822, in the north western regions of the country alone, the Hudson's Bay Company stockpiled 1500 fox skins, a paltry number compared with the 106,000 beaver skins, but too many none the less. The fur traders had miscalculated. As predators, they had failed to adapt to their prey, and their prey, in turn, retaliated with denial. Of course, the red fox didn't render himself extinct. His numbers merely shrank.\".\n\nHistorian and professor Alfred Crosby wrote \"\" in 1986. He uses the term \"Neo-Europes\" to describe the places colonized and conquered by Europeans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31164021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31164021", "title": "Extreme points of Bhutan", "text": "Extreme points of Bhutan\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Bhutan.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5591077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5591077", "title": "Flags of Asia", "text": "Flags of Asia\n\nThis is a gallery of international and national flags used in Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1718100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1718100", "title": "GPS meteorology", "text": "GPS meteorology\n\nGPS meteorology refers to the use of the effect of the atmosphere on the\npropagation of the Global Positioning System's (GPS) radio signals to derive\ninformation on the state of the (lower, neutral) atmosphere.\n\nThere are currently two main operational techniques in use in GPS meteorology:\nGPS limb sounding from orbit, and GPS water vapour monitoring.\n\nAs a result, if it is possible to determine the total atmospheric delay by GPS,\none can subtract out the calculated contribution by the well-mixed \"dry\" gasses\nfrom the measured air pressure at the surface, and obtain a measure for the\nabsolute water vapour content of the atmosphere, integrated from surface to\nspace. This is also referred to as \"total precipitable water vapour\".\n\nWhat makes it possible to determine the total atmospheric delay, is its known\ndependence of the zenith or elevation angle of the satellite. If formula_1\nis the zenith angle, the propagation path delay is proportional to\nformula_2. This unique signature makes it possible to solve\nseparately for the \"zenith delay\" in GPS computations also solving for\nstation coordinates and receiver clock delays.\n\nNowadays water vapour estimates are generated routinely in real time (latency\nmeasured in hours) by permanent geodetic GPS networks existing in\nmany parts of the world.\n\nWater vapour is a very important gas for meteorological and climatological\nstudies, because of the latent heat it carries in transport. Additionally\nit is a powerful greenhouse gas. The GPS technique is especially valuable\nbecause it measures \"absolute\" water vapour content or partial pressure\nrather than relative humidity, which corresponds to water vapour contents that\nare strongly dependent on the often not precisely known temperature.\n\nOne can receive on a low flying satellite the signals from the much higher\norbiting (20 000 km) GPS satellite constellation. As the low flying satellite\norbits the Earth in 1.5 hours, many of the GPS satellites will \"rise\" and \"set\"\nduring the time of the orbit. When they do, their signal will traverse the atmosphere.\n\nA signal delay is produced which grows or decays exponentially with time, just\nas the atmospheric density is an exponential function of height above the\nEarth's surface. In fact, this so-called limb sounding technique allows\nus to determine the scale height, the constant describing the steepness of\nthis atmospheric density decay. This makes the technique extremely valuable for\nclimatological studies, as the scale height is directly related to the\ntemperature in the upper atmosphere, where the limb sounding signals do their\nsensing. The technique works best in the lower stratosphere and upper\ntroposphere; it breaks down close to the Earth surface especially in the\ntropics, due to water vapour extinction.\n\nSatellites involved in GPS limb sounding have been: METSAT, OERSTED (Danish),\nand several others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "69718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69718", "title": "Herbert Kitchener, 1st Earl Kitchener", "text": "Herbert Kitchener, 1st Earl Kitchener\n\nField Marshal Horatio Herbert Kitchener, 1st Earl Kitchener, (; 24 June 1850 – 5 June 1916), was a senior British Army officer and colonial administrator who won notoriety for his imperial campaigns, most especially his scorched earth policy against the Boers and his establishment of concentration camps during the Second Boer War, and later played a central role in the early part of the First World War.\n\nKitchener was credited in 1898 for winning the Battle of Omdurman and securing control of the Sudan for which he was made Lord Kitchener of Khartoum, becoming a qualifying peer and of mid-rank as an Earl. As Chief of Staff (1900–1902) in the Second Boer War he played a key role in Lord Roberts' conquest of the Boer Republics, then succeeded Roberts as commander-in-chief – by which time Boer forces had taken to guerrilla fighting and British forces imprisoned Boer civilians in concentration camps. His term as Commander-in-Chief (1902–09) of the Army in India saw him quarrel with another eminent proconsul, the Viceroy Lord Curzon, who eventually resigned. Kitchener then returned to Egypt as British Agent and Consul-General (\"de facto\" administrator).\n\nIn 1914, at the start of the First World War, Kitchener became Secretary of State for War, a Cabinet Minister. One of the few to foresee a long war, lasting for at least three years, and with the authority to act effectively on that perception, he organised the largest volunteer army that Britain had seen, and oversaw a significant expansion of materials production to fight on the Western Front. Despite having warned of the difficulty of provisioning for a long war, he was blamed for the shortage of shells in the spring of 1915 – one of the events leading to the formation of a coalition government – and stripped of his control over munitions and strategy.\n\nOn 5 June 1916, Kitchener was making his way to Russia to attend negotiations, on HMS \"Hampshire\", when it struck a German mine west of the Orkney Islands, Scotland, and sank. Kitchener was among 737 who died.\n\nKitchener was born in Ballylongford near Listowel, County Kerry, in Ireland, son of army officer Henry Horatio Kitchener (1805–1894) and Frances Anne Chevallier (d. 1864; daughter of John Chevallier, a priest, of Aspall Hall, and his third wife, Elizabeth, \"née\" Cole). His father had only recently bought land in Ireland, under a scheme to encourage the purchase of land, after selling his commission. They then moved to Switzerland where the young Kitchener was educated at Montreux, then at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich. Pro-French and eager to see action, he joined a French field ambulance unit in the Franco-Prussian War. His father took him back to Britain after he caught pneumonia while ascending in a balloon to see the French Army of the Loire in action. Commissioned into the Royal Engineers on 4 January 1871, his service in France had violated British neutrality, and he was reprimanded by the Duke of Cambridge, the commander-in-chief. He served in Palestine, Egypt and Cyprus as a surveyor, learned Arabic, and prepared detailed topographical maps of the areas. His brother, Lt. Gen. Sir Walter Kitchener, had also entered the army, and was Governor of Bermuda from 1908 to 1912.\n\nIn 1874, aged 24, Kitchener was assigned by the Palestine Exploration Fund to a mapping-survey of the Holy Land, replacing Charles Tyrwhitt-Drake, who had died of malaria. By then an officer in the Royal Engineers, Kitchener joined fellow officer Claude R. Conder; between 1874 and 1877 they surveyed Palestine, returning to England only briefly in 1875 after an attack by locals at Safed, in Galilee.\n\nConder and Kitchener's expedition became known as the Survey of Western Palestine because it was largely confined to the area west of the Jordan River. The survey collected data on the topography and toponymy of the area, as well as local flora and fauna.\n\nThe results of the survey were published in an eight-volume series, with Kitchener's contribution in the first three tomes (Conder and Kitchener 1881–1885). This survey has had a lasting effect on the Middle East for several reasons:\n\nIn 1878, having completed the survey of western Palestine, Kitchener was sent to Cyprus to undertake a survey of that newly acquired British protectorate. He became vice-consul in Anatolia in 1879.\n\nKitchener was initiated into Freemasonry in 1883 in the Italian-speaking La Concordia Lodge No. 1226, which met in Cairo. In November 1899 he was appointed the first District Grand Master of the District Grand Lodge of Egypt and the Sudan, under the United Grand Lodge of England. \n\nOn 4 January 1883 Kitchener was promoted to captain, given the Turkish rank bimbashi (major), and dispatched to Egypt where he took part in the reconstruction of the Egyptian Army.\n\nEgypt had recently become a British puppet state, its army led by British officers, although still nominally under the sovereignty of the Khedive (Egyptian monarch) and his nominal overlord the (Ottoman) Sultan of Turkey. Kitchener became second-in-command of an Egyptian cavalry regiment in February 1883, and then took part in the failed expedition to relieve Charles George Gordon in the Sudan in late 1884. Fluent in Arabic, Kitchener preferred the company of the Egyptians over the British, and the company of no-one over the Egyptians, writing in 1884 that: \"I have become such a solitary bird that I often think I were happier alone\". Kitchener spoke Arabic so well that he was able to effortlessly adopt the dialects of the different Bedouin tribes of Egypt and the Sudan. Promoted to brevet major on 8 October 1884 and to brevet lieutenant-colonel on 15 June 1885, he became the British member of the Zanzibar boundary commission in July 1885. He became Governor of the Egyptian Provinces of Eastern Sudan and Red Sea Littoral (which in practice consisted of little more than the Port of Suakin) in September 1886, and led his forces in action against the followers of the Mahdi at Handub in January 1888, when he was injured in the jaw.\n\nKitchener was promoted to brevet colonel on 11 April 1888 and to the substantive rank of major on 20 July 1889 and led the Egyptian cavalry at the Battle of Toski in August 1889. At the beginning of 1890 he was appointed Inspector General of the Egyptian police before moving to the position of Adjutant-General of the Egyptian Army in December of the same year and Sirdar (Commander-in-Chief) of the Egyptian Army with the local rank of brigadier in April 1892.\n\nKitchener was worried that, although his moustache was bleached white by the sun, his blond hair refused to turn grey, making it harder for Egyptians to take him seriously. His appearance added to his mystique: his long legs made him appear taller, whilst a cast in his eye made people feel he was looking right through them. Kitchener, at 6'2\", towered over most of his contemporaries. Sir Evelyn Baring, the \"de facto\" British ruler of Egypt, thought Kitchener “the most able (soldier) I have come across in my time”. In 1890, a War Office evaluation of Kitchener concluded: \"A good brigadier, very ambitious, not popular, but has of late greatly improved in tact and manner...a fine gallant soldier and good linguist and very successful in dealing with Orientals\" [in the 19th century, Europeans called the Middle East the Orient].\n\n In 1896, the British Prime Minister, Lord Salisbury, was concerned with keeping France out of the Horn of Africa. A French expedition under the command of Jean-Baptiste Marchand had left Dakar in March 1896 with the aim of conquering the Sudan, seizing control of the Nile as it flowed into Egypt, and forcing the British out of Egypt; thus restoring Egypt to the place within the French sphere of influence that it had had prior to 1882. Salisbury feared that if the British did not conquer the Sudan, the French would. He had supported Italy's ambitions to conquer Ethiopia in the hope that the Italians would keep the French out of Ethiopia. The Italian attempt to conquer Ethiopia, however, was going very badly by early 1896, and ended with the Italians being annihilated at the Battle of Adowa in March 1896. In March 1896, with the Italians visibly failing and the \"Mahdiyah\" state threatening to conquer Eritrea, Salisbury ordered Kitchener to invade northern Sudan, ostensibly for the purpose of distracting the \"Ansar\" (whom the British called \"Dervishes\") from attacking the Italians.\n\nKitchener won victories at the Battle of Ferkeh in June 1896 and the Battle of Hafir in September 1896, earning him national fame in the United Kingdom and promotion to major-general on 25 September 1896. Kitchener's cold personality and his tendency to drive his men hard made him widely disliked by his fellow officers. One officer wrote about Kitchener in September 1896: \"He was always inclined to bully his own entourage, as some men are rude to their wives. He was inclined to let off his spleen on those around him. He was often morose and silent for hours together...he was even morbidly afraid of showing any feeling or enthusiasm, and he preferred to be misunderstood rather than be suspected of human feeling.\" Kitchener had served on the Wolseley expedition to rescue General Gordon at Khartoum, and was convinced that the expedition failed because Wolseley had used boats coming up the Nile to bring his supplies. Kitchener wanted to build a railroad to supply the Anglo-Egyptian army, and assigned the task of constructing the Sudan Military Railroad to a Canadian railroad builder, Percy Girouard, for whom he had specifically asked.\n\nKitchener achieved further successes at the Battle of Atbara in April 1898, and then the Battle of Omdurman in September 1898. After marching to the walls of Khartoum, he placed his army into a crescent shape with the Nile to the rear, together with the gunboats in support. This enabled him to bring overwhelming firepower against any attack of the \"Ansar\" from any direction, though with the disadvantage of having his men spread out thinly, with hardly any forces in reserve. Such an arrangement could have proven disastrous if the \"Ansar\" had broken through the thin khaki line. At about 5 a.m. on 2 September 1898, a huge force of \"Ansar\", under the command of the Khalifa himself, came out of the fort at Omdurman, marching under their black banners inscribed with Koranic quotations in Arabic; this led Bennet Burleigh, the Sudan correspondent of \"The Daily Telegraph\", to write: \"It was not alone the reverberation of the tread of horses and men's feet I heard and seemed to feel as well as hear, but a voiced continuous shouting and chanting-the Dervish invocation and battle challenge \"Allah e Allah Rasool Allah el Mahdi!\" they reiterated in vociferous rising measure, as they swept over the intervening ground\". Kitchener had the ground carefully studied so that his officers would know the best angle of fire, and had his army open fire on the \"Ansar\" first with artillery, then machine guns and finally rifles as the enemy advanced. A young Winston Churchill, serving as an army officer, wrote of what he saw: \"A ragged line of men were coming on desperately, struggling forward in the face of the pitiless fire-black banners tossing and collapsing; white figures subsiding in dozens to the ground...valiant men were struggling on through a hell of whistling metal, exploding shells, and spurting dust—suffering, despairing, dying\". By about 8:30 a.m., much of the Dervish army was dead; Kitchener ordered his men to advance, fearing that the Khalifa might escape with what was left of his army to the fort of Omdurman, forcing Kitchener to lay siege to it.\n\nViewing the battlefield from horseback on the hill at Jebel Surgham, Kitchener commented: \"Well, we have given them a damn good dusting\". As the British and Egyptians advanced in columns, the Khalifa attempted to outflank and encircle the columns; this led to desperate hand-to-hand fighting. Churchill wrote of his own experience as the 21st Lancers cut their way through the \"Ansar\": \"The collision was prodigious and for perhaps ten wonderful seconds, no man heeded his enemy. Terrified horses wedged in the crowd, bruised and shaken men, sprawling in heaps, struggle dazed and stupid, to their feet, panted and looked about them\". The Lancers' onslaught carried them through the 12-men-deep \"Ansar\" line with the Lancers losing about 70 dead while killing hundreds of the enemy. Following the annihilation of his army, the Khalifa ordered a retreat and early in the afternoon, Kitchener rode in triumph into Omdurman and immediately ordered that the thousands of Christians enslaved by the \"Ansar\" were now all free people. Kitchener lost fewer than 500 men while killing about 11,000 and wounding 17,000 of the \"Ansar\". Burleigh summed the general mood of the British troops: \"At Last! Gordon has been avenged and justified. The dervishes have been overwhelming routed, Mahdism has been \"smashed\", while the Khalifa's capital of Omdurman has been stripped of its barbaric halo of sanctity and invulnerability.\" Kitchener promptly had the Mahdi's tomb blown up and his bones scattered. Queen Victoria, who had wept when she heard of General Gordon's death, now wept for the man who had vanquished Gordon, asking whether it had been really necessary for Kitchener to desecrate the Mahdi's tomb. In a letter to his mother, Churchill wrote that the victory at Omdurman had been \"disgraced by the inhuman slaughter of the wounded and...Kitchener is responsible for this\". There is no evidence that Kitchener ordered his men to shoot the wounded \"Ansar\" on the field of Omdurman, but he did give before the battle what the British journalist Mark Urban called a \"mixed message\", saying that mercy should be given, while at the same time saying \"Remember Gordon\" and that the enemy were all \"murderers\" of Gordon. The victory at Omdurman made Kitchener into a popular war hero, and gave him a reputation for efficiency and as a man who got things done. The journalist G. W. Steevens wrote in the \"Daily Mail\" that \"He [Kitchener] is more like a machine than a man. You feel that he ought to be patented and shown with pride at the Paris International Exhibition. British Empire: Exhibit No. 1 \"hors concours\", the Sudan Machine\". The shooting of the wounded at Omdurman, along with the desecration of the Mahdi's tomb, gave Kitchener a reputation for brutality that was to dog him for the rest of his life, and posthumously. \nAfter Omdurman, Kitchener opened a special sealed letter from Salisbury that told him that Salisbury's real reason for ordering the conquest of the Sudan was to prevent France from moving into the Sudan, and that the talk of \"avenging Gordon\" had been just a pretext. Salisbury's letter ordered Kitchener to head south as soon as possible to evict Marchand before he got a chance to become well-established on the Nile. On 18 September 1898, Kitchener arrived at the French fort at Fashoda and informed Marchand that he and his men had to leave the Sudan at once, a request Merchand refused, leading to a tense stand-off as French and British soldiers aimed their weapons at each other. During what became known as the Fashoda Incident, Britain and France almost went to war with each other. The Fashoda incident caused much jingoism and chauvinism on both sides of the English Channel; however, at Fashoda itself, despite the stand-off with the French, Kitchener established cordial relations with Marchand. They agreed that the tricolor would fly equally with the Union Jack and the Egyptian flag over the disputed fort at Fashoda. Kitchener was a Francophile who spoke fluent French, and despite his reputation for brusque rudeness was very diplomatic and tactful in his talks with Marchand; for example, congratulating him on his achievement in crossing the Sahara in an epic trek from Dakar to the Nile. In November 1898, the crisis ended when the French agreed to withdraw from the Sudan. Several factors persuaded the French to back down. These included British naval superiority; the prospect of an Anglo-French war leading to the British gobbling up the entire French colonial empire after the defeat of the French Navy; the pointed statement from the Russian Emperor Nicholas II that the Franco-Russian alliance applied only to Europe, and that Russia would not go to war against Britain for the sake of an obscure fort in the Sudan in which no Russian interests were involved; and the possibility that Germany might take advantage of an Anglo-French war to strike France.\n\nKitchener became Governor-General of the Sudan in September 1898, and began a programme of restoring good governance. The programme had a strong foundation, based on education at Gordon Memorial College as its centrepiece—and not simply for the children of the local elites, for children from anywhere could apply to study. He ordered the mosques of Khartoum rebuilt, instituted reforms which recognised Friday—the Muslim holy day—as the official day of rest, and guaranteed freedom of religion to all citizens of the Sudan. He attempted to prevent evangelical Christian missionaries from trying to convert Muslims to Christianity.\n\nAt this stage of his career Kitchener was keen to exploit the press, cultivating G. W. Steevens of the \"Daily Mail\" who wrote a book \"With Kitchener to Khartum\". Later, as his legend had grown, he was able to be rude to the press, on one occasion in the Second Boer War bellowing: \"Get out of my way, you drunken swabs\". He was created Baron Kitchener, of Khartoum and of Aspall in the County of Suffolk, on 31 October 1898.\n\nDuring the Second Boer War, Kitchener arrived in South Africa with Lord Roberts on the RMS \"Dunottar Castle\" along with massive British reinforcements in December 1899. Officially holding the title of chief of staff, he was in practice a second-in-command and was present at the relief of Kimberley before leading an unsuccessful frontal assault at the Battle of Paardeberg in February 1900. Kitchener was mentioned in despatches from Lord Roberts several times during the early part of the war; in a despatch from March 1900 Lord Roberts wrote how he was \"greatly indebted to him for his counsel and cordial support on all occasions\".\n\nFollowing the defeat of the conventional Boer forces, Kitchener succeeded Roberts as overall commander in November 1900. He was also promoted to lieutenant-general on 29 November 1900 and to local general on 12 December 1900. He subsequently inherited and expanded the successful strategies devised by Roberts to force the Boer commandos to submit, including concentration camps and the burning of farms. Conditions in the concentration camps, which had been conceived by Roberts as a form of control of the families whose farms he had destroyed, began to degenerate rapidly as the large influx of Boers outstripped the ability of the minuscule British force to cope. The camps lacked space, food, sanitation, medicine, and medical care, leading to rampant disease and a very high death rate for those Boers who entered. Eventually 26,370 women and children (81% were children) died in the concentration camps. The biggest critic of the camps was the Englishwoman, humanitarian, and welfare worker Emily Hobhouse.\n\nThe Treaty of Vereeniging, ending the War, was signed in May 1902 following a tense six months. During this period Kitchener struggled against Sir Alfred Milner, the Governor of the Cape Colony, and the British government. Milner was a hard-line conservative and wanted forcibly to Anglicise the Afrikaans people (the Boers), and Milner and the British government wanted to assert victory by forcing the Boers to sign a humiliating peace treaty; Kitchener wanted a more generous compromise peace treaty that would recognize certain rights for the Afrikaners and promise future self-government. He even entertained a peace treaty proposed by Louis Botha and the other Boer leaders, although he knew the British government would reject the offer; this would have maintained the sovereignty of the South African Republic and the Orange Free State while requiring them to sign a perpetual treaty of alliance with the UK and grant major concessions to the British, such as equal rights for English with Dutch in their countries, voting rights for Uitlanders, and a customs and railway union with the Cape Colony and Natal.\n\nKitchener, who had been promoted to the substantive rank of general on 1 June 1902, was hosted to a farewell reception at Cape Town on 23 June, and left for the United Kingdom in the SS \"Orotava\" on the same day. He received an enthusiastic welcome on his arrival the following month. Landing in Southampton on 12 July, he was greeted by the corporation, who presented him with the Freedom of the borough. In London, he was met at the train station by The Prince of Wales, drove in a procession through streets lined by military personnel from 70 different units and watched by thousands of people, and received a formal welcome at St James's Palace. He also visited King Edward VII, Emperor of India, who was confined to his room recovering from his recent operation for appendicitis, but wanted to meet the general on his arrival and to personally bestow on him the insignia of the Order of Merit (OM). Kitchener was created Viscount Kitchener, of Khartoum and of the Vaal in the Colony of Transvaal and of Aspall in the County of Suffolk, on 28 July 1902.\n\nIn the Breaker Morant case, five Australian officers and one English officer of an irregular unit, The Bushveldt Carbineers, were court-martialled for summarily executing twelve Boer prisoners, and also for the murder of a German missionary believed to be a Boer sympathiser, all under unwritten orders approved by Kitchener. The celebrated horseman and bush poet Lt. Harry \"Breaker\" Morant and Lt. Peter Handcock were found guilty, sentenced to death, and shot by firing squad at Pietersburg on 27 February 1902. Their death warrants were personally signed by Kitchener. He reprieved a third soldier, Lt. George Witton, who served 28 months before being released.\n\nGeneral Lord Kitchener was appointed Commander-in-Chief, India, in 1902 and immediately began the task of reorganising the Indian Army. Kitchener's plan “The Reorganisation and Redistribution of the Army in India” recommended preparing the Indian Army for any potential war by reducing the size of fixed garrisons and reorganising it into two armies, to be commanded by the splendidly-named Generals Blood and Luck. While many of the Kitchener Reforms were supported by the Viceroy, Lord Curzon of Kedleston, who had originally lobbied for Kitchener's appointment, the two men eventually came into conflict. Curzon wrote to Kitchener advising him that signing himself “Kitchener of Khartoum” took up too much time and space – Kitchener commented on the pettiness of this (Curzon simply signed himself \"Curzon\" as an hereditary peer, although he later took to signing himself “Curzon of Kedleston”). They also clashed over the question of military administration, as Kitchener objected to the system whereby transport and logistics were controlled by a \"Military Member\" of the Viceroy's Council. The Commander-in-Chief won the crucial support of the government in London, and the Viceroy chose to resign.\n\nLater events proved Curzon was right in opposing Kitchener's attempts to concentrate all military decision-making power in his own office. Although the offices of Commander-in-Chief and Military Member were now held by a single individual, senior officers could approach only the Commander-in-Chief directly. In order to deal with the Military Member, a request had to be made through the Army Secretary, who reported to the Indian Government and had right of access to the Viceroy. There were even instances, when the two separate bureaucracies produced different answers to a problem, with the Commander-in-Chief disagreeing with himself as Military Member. This became known as \"the canonisation of duality\". Kitchener's successor, General Sir O’Moore Creagh, was nicknamed \"no More K\", and concentrated on establishing good relations with the Viceroy, Lord Hardinge.\n\nKitchener presided over the Rawalpindi Parade in 1905 to honour the Prince and Princess of Wales's visit to India. That same year Kitchener founded the Indian Staff College at Quetta (now the Pakistani Command and Staff College), where his portrait still hangs. His term of office as Commander-in-Chief, India, was extended by two years in 1907.\n\nKitchener was promoted to the highest Army rank, field marshal, on 10 September 1909 and went on a tour of Australia and New Zealand. He aspired to be Viceroy of India, but the Secretary of State for India, John Morley, was not keen and hoped to send him instead to Malta as Commander-in-Chief of British forces in the Mediterranean, even to the point of announcing the appointment in the newspapers. Kitchener pushed hard for the Viceroyalty, returning to London to lobby Cabinet ministers and the dying King Edward VII, from whom, whilst collecting his field marshal's baton, Kitchener obtained permission to refuse the Malta job. However, Morley could not be moved. This was perhaps in part because Kitchener was thought to be a Tory (the Liberals were in office at the time); perhaps due to a Curzon-inspired whispering campaign; but most importantly because Morley, who was a Gladstonian and thus suspicious of imperialism, felt it inappropriate, after the recent grant of limited self-government under the 1909 Indian Councils Act, for a serving soldier to be Viceroy (in the event, no serving soldier was appointed Viceroy until Lord Wavell in 1943, during the Second World War). The Prime Minister, Herbert Henry Asquith, was sympathetic to Kitchener but was unwilling to overrule Morley, who threatened resignation, so Kitchener was finally turned down for the post of Viceroy of India in 1911.\n\nIn June 1911 Kitchener then returned to Egypt as British Agent and Consul-General in Egypt during the formal reign of Abbas Hilmi II as Khedive.\n\nAt the time of the Agadir Crisis (summer 1911), Kitchener told the Committee of Imperial Defence that he expected the Germans to walk through the French “like partridges” and he informed Lord Esher “that if they imagined that he was going to command the Army in France he would see them damned first”.\n\nHe was created Earl Kitchener, of Khartoum and of Broome in the County of Kent, on 29 June 1914.\n\nDuring this period he became a proponent of Scouting and coined the phrase \"once a Scout, always a Scout.\"\n\nAt the outset of the First World War, the Prime Minister, Asquith, quickly had Lord Kitchener appointed Secretary of State for War; Asquith had been filling the job himself as a stopgap following the resignation of Colonel Seely over the Curragh Incident earlier in 1914. Kitchener was in Britain on his annual summer leave, between 23 June and 3 August 1914, and had boarded a cross-Channel steamer to commence his return trip to Cairo when he was recalled to London to meet with Asquith. War was declared at 11pm the next day.\n\nAgainst cabinet opinion, Kitchener correctly predicted a long war that would last at least three years, require huge new armies to defeat Germany, and cause huge casualties before the end would come. Kitchener stated that the conflict would plumb the depths of manpower \"to the last million\". A massive recruitment campaign began, which soon featured a distinctive poster of Kitchener, taken from a magazine front cover. It may have encouraged large numbers of volunteers, and has proven to be one of the most enduring images of the war, having been copied and parodied many times since. Kitchener built up the \"New Armies\" as separate units because he distrusted the Territorials from what he had seen with the French Army in 1870. This may have been a mistaken judgement, as the British reservists of 1914 tended to be much younger and fitter than their French equivalents a generation earlier.\n\nCabinet Secretary Maurice Hankey wrote of Kitchener:\nHowever, Ian Hamilton later wrote of Kitchener \"he hated organisations; he smashed organisations ... he was a Master of Expedients\".\n\nAt the War Council (5 August) Kitchener and Lt.-General Sir Douglas Haig argued that the BEF should be deployed at Amiens, where it could deliver a vigorous counterattack once the route of German advance was known. Kitchener argued that the deployment of the BEF in Belgium would result in having to retreat and abandon much of its supplies almost immediately, as the Belgian Army would be unable to hold its ground against the Germans; Kitchener was proved right, but given the belief in fortresses common at the time, it is not surprising that the War Council disagreed with him.\n\nKitchener, believing Britain should husband her resources for a long war, decided at Cabinet (6 August) that the initial BEF would consist of only 4 infantry divisions (and 1 cavalry), not the 5 or 6 promised. His decision to hold back two of the six divisions of the BEF, although based on exaggerated concerns about German invasion of Britain, arguably saved the BEF from disaster as Sir John French (on the advice of Wilson who was much influenced by the French), might have been tempted to advance further into the teeth of the advancing German forces, had his own force been stronger.\n\nKitchener's wish to concentrate further back at Amiens may also have been influenced by a largely accurate map of German dispositions which was published by Repington in \"The Times\" on the morning of 12 August. Kitchener had a three-hour meeting (12 August) with Sir John French, Murray, Wilson and the French liaison officer Victor Huguet, before being overruled by the Prime Minister, who eventually agreed that the BEF should assemble at Maubeuge.\n\nSir John French's orders from Kitchener were to cooperate with the French but not to take orders from them. Given that the tiny BEF (about 100,000 men, half of them serving regulars and half reservists) was Britain's only field army, Lord Kitchener also instructed French to avoid undue losses and exposure to “forward movements where large numbers of French troops are not engaged” until Kitchener himself had had a chance to discuss the matter with the Cabinet.\n\nThe BEF Commander Sir John French, concerned at heavy British losses at the Battle of Le Cateau, was considering withdrawing his forces from the Allied line. By 31 August Joffre, President Poincaré (relayed via Bertie, the British Ambassador) and Kitchener sent him messages urging him not to do so. Kitchener, authorised by a midnight meeting of whichever Cabinet Ministers could be found, left for France for a meeting with Sir John on 1 September.\n\nThey met, together with Viviani (French Prime Minister) and Millerand (now French War Minister). Huguet recorded that Kitchener was \"calm, balanced, reflective\" whilst Sir John was \"sour, impetuous, with congested face, sullen and ill-tempered\". On Bertie’s advice Kitchener dropped his intention of inspecting the BEF. French and Kitchener moved to a separate room, and no independent account of the meeting exists. After the meeting Kitchener telegraphed the Cabinet that the BEF would remain in the line, although taking care not to be outflanked, and told French to consider this \"an instruction\". French had a friendly exchange of letters with Joffre.\n\nFrench had been particularly angry that Kitchener had arrived wearing his field marshal's uniform. This was how Kitchener normally dressed at the time (Hankey thought Kitchener's uniform tactless, but it had probably not occurred to him to change), but French felt that Kitchener was implying that he was his military superior and not simply a cabinet member. By the end of the year French thought that Kitchener had \"gone mad\" and his hostility had become common knowledge at GHQ and GQG.\n\nIn January 1915, Field Marshal Sir John French, the commander of the British Expeditionary Force, with the concurrence of other senior commanders (e.g. General Sir Douglas Haig), wanted the New Armies incorporated into existing divisions as battalions rather than sent out as entire divisions. French felt (wrongly) that the war would be over by the summer before the New Army divisions were deployed, as Germany had recently redeployed some divisions to the east, and took the step of appealing to the Prime Minister, Asquith, over Kitchener's head, but Asquith refused to overrule Kitchener. This further damaged relations between French and Kitchener, who had travelled to France in September 1914 during the First Battle of the Marne to order French to resume his place in the Allied line.\n\nKitchener warned French in January 1915 that the Western Front was a siege line that could not be breached, in the context of Cabinet discussions about amphibious landings on the Baltic or North Sea Coast, or against Turkey. In an effort to find a way to relieve pressure on the Western front, Lord Kitchener proposed an invasion of Alexandretta with Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC), New Army, and Indian troops. Alexandretta was an area with a large Christian population and was the strategic centre of the Ottoman Empire's railway network — its capture would have cut the empire in two.Yet he was instead eventually persuaded to support Winston Churchill's disastrous Gallipoli Campaign in 1915–1916. (Churchill's responsibility for the failure of this campaign is debated; for more information see David Fromkin's \"A Peace to End All Peace.\") That failure, combined with the Shell Crisis of 1915 – amidst press publicity engineered by Sir John French – dealt Kitchener's political reputation a heavy blow; Kitchener was popular with the public, so Asquith retained him in office in the new coalition government, but responsibility for munitions was moved to a new ministry headed by David Lloyd George. He was a sceptic about the tank, which is why it was developed under the auspices of Churchill's Admiralty.\n\nWith the Russians being pushed back from Poland, Kitchener thought the transfer of German troops west and a possible invasion of Britain increasingly likely, and told the War Council (14 May) that he was not willing to send the New Armies overseas. He wired French (16 May 1915) that he would send no more reinforcements to France until he was clear the German line could be broken, but sent two divisions at the end of May to please Joffre, not because he thought a breakthrough possible. He had wanted to conserve his New Armies to strike a knockout blow in 1916–17, but by the summer of 1915 realised that high casualties and a major commitment to France were inescapable. “Unfortunately we have to make war as we must, and not as we should like” as he told the Dardanelles Committee on 20 August 1915.\n\nAt an Anglo-French conference at Calais (6 July) Joffre and Kitchener, who was opposed to “too vigorous” offensives, reached a compromise on “local offensives on a vigorous scale”, and Kitchener agreed to deploy New Army divisions to France. An inter-Allied conference at Chantilly (7 July, including Russian, Belgian, Serb and Italian delegates) agreed on coordinated offensives. However, Kitchener now came to support the upcoming Loos offensive. He travelled to France for talks with Joffre and Millerand (16 August). The French leaders believed Russia might sue for peace (Warsaw had fallen on 4 August). Kitchener (19 August) ordered the Loos offensive to proceed, despite the attack being on ground not favoured by French or Haig (then commanding First Army). The Official History later admitted that Kitchener hoped to be appointed Supreme Allied Commander. Liddell Hart speculated that this was why he allowed himself to be persuaded by Joffre. New Army divisions first saw action at Loos in September 1915.\n\nKitchener continued to lose favour with politicians and professional soldiers. He found it “repugnant and unnatural to have to discuss military secrets with a large number of gentlemen with whom he was but barely acquainted”. Esher complained that he would either lapse into “obstinacy and silence” or else mull aloud over various difficulties. Milner told Gwynne (18 August 1915) that he thought Kitchener a “slippery fish”. By autumn 1915, with Asquith's Coalition close to breaking up over conscription, he was blamed for his opposition to that measure (which would eventually be introduced for single men in January 1916) and for the excessive influence which civilians like Churchill and Haldane had come to exert over strategy, allowing \"ad hoc\" campaigns to develop in Sinai, Mesopotamia and Salonika. Generals such as Sir William Robertson were critical of Kitchener's failure to ask the General Staff (whose chief James Wolfe-Murray was intimidated by Kitchener) to study the feasibility of any of these campaigns.\n\nKitchener advised the Dardanelles Committee (21 October) that Baghdad be seized for the sake of prestige then abandoned as logistically untenable. His advice was no longer accepted without question, but the British forces were eventually besieged and captured at Kut.\nArchibald Murray (Chief of the Imperial General Staff) later recorded that Kitchener was “quite unfit for the position of secretary of state” and “impossible”, claiming that he never assembled the Army Council as a body, but instead gave them orders separately, and was usually exhausted by Friday. Kitchener was also keen to break up Territorial units whenever possible whilst ensuring that “No “K” Division left the country incomplete”. Murray wrote that “He seldom told the absolute the truth and the whole truth” and claimed that it was not until he left on a tour of inspection of Gallipoli and the Near East that Murray was able to inform the Cabinet that volunteering had fallen far below the level needed to maintain a BEF of 70 divisions, requiring the introduction of conscription. The Cabinet insisted on proper General Staff papers being presented in Kitchener's absence.\n\nAsquith, who told Robertson that Kitchener was “an impossible colleague” and “his veracity left much to be desired”, hoped that he could be persuaded to remain in the region as Commander-in-Chief and acted in charge of the War Office, but Kitchener took his seals of office with him so he could not be sacked in his absence. Douglas Haig – at that time involved in intrigues to have Robertson appointed Chief of the Imperial General Staff – recommended that Kitchener be appointed Viceroy of India (“where trouble was brewing”) but not to the Middle East, where his strong personality would have led to that sideshow receiving too much attention and resources. Kitchener visited Rome and Athens, but Murray warned that he would likely demand the diversion of British troops to fight the Turks in the Sinai.\n\nKitchener and Asquith were agreed that Robertson should become CIGS, but Robertson refused to do this if Kitchener “continued to be his own CIGS”, although given Kitchener's great prestige he did not want him to resign; he wanted the Secretary of State to be sidelined to an advisory role like the Prussian War Minister. Asquith asked them to negotiate an agreement, which they did over the exchange of several draft documents at the Hotel de Crillon in Paris. Kitchener agreed that Robertson alone should present strategic advice to the Cabinet, with Kitchener responsible for recruiting and supplying the Army, although he refused to agree that military orders should go out over Robertson's signature alone – it was agreed that the Secretary of State should continue to sign orders jointly with the CIGS. The agreement was formalised in a Royal Order in Council in January 1916. Robertson was suspicious of efforts in the Balkans and Near East, and was instead committed to major British offensives against Germany on the Western Front — the first of these was to be the Somme in 1916.\n\nEarly in 1916 Kitchener visited Douglas Haig, newly appointed Commander-in-Chief of the BEF in France. Kitchener had been a key figure in the removal of Haig's predecessor Sir John French, with whom he had a poor relationship. Haig differed with Kitchener over the importance of Mediterranean efforts and wanted to see a strong General Staff in London, but nonetheless valued Kitchener as a military voice against the folly of civilians such as Churchill. However, he thought Kitchener \"pinched, tired, and much aged\", and thought it sad that his mind was “losing its comprehension” as the time for decisive victory on the Western Front (as Haig and Robertson saw it) approached. Kitchener was somewhat doubtful of Haig's plan to win decisive victory in 1916, and would have preferred smaller and purely attritional attacks, but sided with Robertson in telling the Cabinet that the planned Anglo-French offensive on the Somme should go ahead.\n\nKitchener was under pressure from French Prime Minister Aristide Briand (29 March 1916) for the British to attack on the Western Front to help relieve the pressure of the German attack at Verdun. The French refused to bring troops home from Salonika, which Kitchener thought a play for the increase of French power in the Mediterranean.\n\nOn 2 June 1916, Lord Kitchener personally answered questions asked by politicians about his running of the war effort; at the start of hostilities Kitchener had ordered two million rifles from various US arms manufacturers. Only 480 of these rifles had arrived in the UK by 4 June 1916. The numbers of shells supplied were no less paltry. Kitchener explained the efforts he had made to secure alternative supplies. He received a resounding vote of thanks from the 200 Members of Parliament who had arrived to question him, both for his candour and for his efforts to keep the troops armed; Sir Ivor Herbert, who, a week before, had introduced the failed vote of censure in the House of Commons against Kitchener's running of the War Department, personally seconded the motion.\n\nIn addition to his military work, Lord Kitchener contributed to efforts on the home front. The knitted sock patterns of the day used a seam up the toe that could rub uncomfortably against the toes. Kitchener encouraged British and American women to knit for the war effort, and contributed a sock pattern featuring a new technique for a seamless join of the toe, still known as the Kitchener stitch.\n\nIn the midst of his other political and military concerns, Kitchener had devoted personal attention to the deteriorating situation on the Eastern Front. This included the provision of extensive stocks of war material for the Russian armies, which had been under increasing pressure since mid-1915. In May 1916 the Chancellor of the Exchequer Reginald Mckenna suggested that Kitchener head a special and confidential mission to Russia to discuss munition shortages, military strategy and financial difficulties with the Imperial Russian Government and the \"Stavka\" (military high command), which was now under the personal command of Tsar Nicholas II. Both Kitchener and the Russians were in favor of face to face talks and a formal invitation from the Tsar was received on 14 May. Kitchener with a party of officials, military aides and personal servants left London by train for Scotland on the evening of 4 June.\n\nLord Kitchener sailed from Scrabster to Scapa Flow on 5 June 1916 aboard HMS \"Oak\" before transferring to the armoured cruiser HMS \"Hampshire\" for his diplomatic mission to Russia. Shortly before 19:30 hrs the same day, steaming towards the Russian port of Arkhangelsk during a Force 9 gale, \"Hampshire\" struck a mine laid by the newly launched German U-boat \"U-75\" (commanded by Curt Beitzen) and sank west of the Orkney Islands. Recent research has set the death toll of those aboard \"Hampshire\" at 737. Only twelve survived. Amongst the dead were all ten members of his entourage. Kitchener was seen standing on the quarterdeck during the approximately twenty minutes that it took the ship to sink. His body was never recovered.\n\nThe news of Kitchener's death was received with shock all over the British Empire. A man in Yorkshire committed suicide at the news; a sergeant on the Western Front was heard to exclaim \"Now we’ve lost the war. Now we’ve lost the war\"; and a nurse wrote home to her family that she knew Britain would win as long as Kitchener lived and now that he was gone: \"How awful it is – a far worse blow than many German victories. So long as he was with us we knew even if things were gloomy that his guiding hand was at the helm.\" General Douglas Haig commanding the British Armies on the Western Front remarked on first receiving the news of Kitchener's death via a German radio signal intercepted by the British Army, \"How shall we get on without him.\" King George V wrote in his diary: 'It is indeed a heavy blow to me and a great loss to the nation and the allies.' He ordered army officers to wear black armbands for a week. \n\nC. P. Scott, editor of \"The Manchester Guardian\", is said to have remarked that \"as for the old man, he could not have done better than to have gone down, as he was a great impediment lately.\"\n\nKitchener's great fame, the suddenness of his death, and its apparently convenient timing for a number of parties gave almost immediate rise to a number of conspiracy theories about his death. One in particular was posited by Lord Alfred Douglas (of Oscar Wilde fame), positing a connection between Kitchener's death, the recent naval Battle of Jutland, Winston Churchill, and a Jewish conspiracy. Churchill successfully sued Douglas in what proved to be the last successful case of criminal libel in British legal history, and the latter spent six months in prison. Another claimed that the \"Hampshire\" did not strike a mine at all, but was sunk by explosives secreted in the vessel by Irish Republicans.\n\nIn 1926, a hoaxer named Frank Power claimed in the Sunday Referee newspaper that Kitchener's body had been found by a Norwegian fisherman. Power brought a coffin back from Norway and prepared it for burial in St. Paul's. At this point, however, the authorities intervened and the coffin was opened in the presence of police and a distinguished pathologist. The box was found to contain only tar for weight. There was widespread public outrage at Power, but he was never prosecuted.\nGeneral Erich Ludendorff, Generalquartiermeister and joint head (with von Hindenburg) of Germany's war effort in the 1920s stated that Russian communists working against the Tsar had betrayed the plan to visit the Russians to the German command. His account was that Kitchener was \"[killed] because of his ability\" as it was feared he would help the tsarist Russian Army to recover.\n\nFrederick Joubert Duquesne, a Boer soldier and spy, claimed that he had assassinated Kitchener after an earlier attempt to kill him in Cape Town failed. He was arrested and court-martialled in Cape Town and sent to the penal colony of Bermuda, but managed to escape to the U.S. MI5 confirmed that Duquesne was \"a German intelligence officer ... involved in a series of acts of sabotage against British shipping in South American waters during the [First World] war\"; he was wanted for: \"murder on the high seas, the sinking and burning of British ships, the burning of military stores, warehouses, coaling stations, conspiracy, and the falsification of Admiralty documents.\" Duquesne's story was that he returned to Europe, posed as the Russian Duke Boris Zakrevsky in 1916, and joined Kitchener in Scotland. While on board HMS \"Hampshire\" with Kitchener, Duquesne signalled a German submarine that then sank the cruiser, and was rescued by the submarine, later being awarded the Iron Cross for his efforts. Duquesne was later apprehended and tried by the authorities in the U.S. for insurance fraud, but managed to escape again. In the Second World War, he ran a German spy ring in the United States until he was caught by the FBI in what became the biggest roundup of spies in U.S. history: the \"Duquesne Spy Ring\". Coincidentally, Kitchener's brother was to die in office in Bermuda in 1912, and his nephew, Major H.H. \"Hap\" Kitchener, who had married a Bermudian, purchased (with a legacy left to him by his uncle) Hinson's Island, part of the former Prisoner of War camp from which Duquesne had escaped, after the First World War as the location of his home and business.\n\nKitchener is officially remembered in a chapel on the north-west corner of St. Paul's Cathedral in London, near the main entrance, where a memorial service was held in his honour.\n\nIn Canada, the city named New Berlin was officially renamed Kitchener on 1 September 1916.\n\nSince 1970, the opening of new records has led historians to rehabilitate Kitchener's reputation to some extent. Robin Neillands, for instance, notes that Kitchener consistently rose in ability as he was promoted. Some historians now praise his strategic vision in the First World War, especially his laying the groundwork for the expansion of munitions production and his central role in the raising of the British army in 1914 and 1915, providing a force capable of meeting Britain's continental commitment.\n\nHis commanding image, appearing on recruiting posters demanding \"Your country needs you!\", remains recognised and parodied in popular culture.\n\n\nSome biographers have concluded that Kitchener was a latent or active homosexual. Writers who make the case for his homosexuality include Montgomery Hyde, Ronald Hyam, Denis Judd and Frank Richardson. Philip Magnus hints at homosexuality, though Lady Winifred Renshaw said that Magnus later repudiated this belief.\n\nThe proponents of the case point to Kitchener's friend Captain Oswald Fitzgerald, his \"constant and inseparable companion\", whom he appointed his aide-de-camp. They remained close until they met a common death on their voyage to Russia. From his time in Egypt in 1892, he gathered around him a cadre of eager young and unmarried officers nicknamed \"Kitchener's band of boys\". He also avoided interviews with women, took a great deal of interest in the Boy Scout movement, and decorated his rose garden with four pairs of sculptured bronze boys. According to Hyam, \"there is no evidence that he ever loved a woman\".\n\nPatrick Barkham, a contemporary journalist, remarked that Kitchener \"has the failing acquired by most of the Egyptian officers, a taste for buggery\".\n\nAccording to A. N. Wilson his interests were not exclusively homosexual. \"When the great field marshal stayed in aristocratic houses, the well informed young would ask servants to sleep across their bedroom threshold to impede his entrance\". His compulsive objective was sodomy, regardless of their gender.\n\nKitchener's decorations included:<br>\nBritish\n\nForeign\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43627162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43627162", "title": "Hodna", "text": "Hodna\n\nThe Hodna () is a natural region of Algeria located between the Tell and Saharan Atlas ranges at the eastern end of the \"Hautes Plaines\". It is a vast depression lying in the northeastern section of M'Sila Province and the western end of Batna Province.\n\nThe Hodna region has a length of about 120 km in an NW - SE direction and a width of about 80 km. It is characterized by the Chott El Hodna, an endorheic salt lake, in its centre with seasonal brackish and saline pools and marshes. A thin film of water collects during wet seasons on the level terrain of the large lake basin, which becomes a salt flat when it dries. The elevation of the lake's surface is slightly below 400 m, while the surrounding steppe-like plain, characterized by wadis and oases, averages between 500 and 600 meters in elevation in the communes near the lake.\n\nThe Hodna natural region gives its name to the Hodna Mountains located to the north. Its southern limit is marked by the Ouled Nail Range. There are no mountains in its western limit, where the plateau stretches further westwards. The northern part of the Hodna is composed of silt and the southern part is mainly sandy. The lowest area of the basin is covered by the \"sebkha\", the salt lake, with a surface of 76 000 ha of naked salty clay that is seldom covered with water and is completely devoid of vegetation.\n\nThe Hodna is a steppe where the climate is harsh, with very dry summers, cold winters and very irregular precipitation. Formerly all the inhabitants of the Hodna were nomads. The soil is poor and local agriculture is limited to the grazing of sheep and goats on grassy high plateau areas and to some cereal cultivation. There are uncultivated areas of \"djerr\", small hillocks, to the north and to the east. The mountains have good reserves of water and there are freshwater springs in the area, but historically they have not been properly exploited.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7724642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7724642", "title": "Insular Plate", "text": "Insular Plate\n\nThe Insular Plate was an ancient oceanic plate that began subducting under the west-coast of North America around the early Cretaceous time. The Insular Plate had a chain of active volcanic islands that were called the Insular Islands. These volcanic Islands however collided then fused onto the west-coast of North America when the Insular Plate jammed then shut down ending the subduction zone.\n\n"}
{"id": "10954106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10954106", "title": "International rankings of Peru", "text": "International rankings of Peru\n\nThe following are international rankings of :\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58348993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58348993", "title": "Jatland", "text": "Jatland\n\nJatland is the area with majority of the Jat Community in Northern India that covers some part of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. It mainly cover the Delhi-Chandigarh belt.\n\n"}
{"id": "40083369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40083369", "title": "Land", "text": "Land\n\nLand, sometimes referred to as dry land, is the solid surface of Earth that is not permanently covered by water. The vast majority of human activity throughout history has occurred in land areas that support agriculture, habitat, and various natural resources. Some life forms (including terrestrial plants and terrestrial animals) have developed from predecessor species that lived in bodies of water.\n\nAreas where land meets large bodies of water are called coastal zones. The division between land and water is a fundamental concept to humans. The demarcation between land and water can vary by local jurisdiction and other factors. A maritime boundary is one example of a political demarcation. A variety of natural boundaries exist to help clearly define where water meets land. Solid rock landforms are easier to demarcate than marshy or swampy boundaries, where there is no clear point at which the land ends and a body of water has begun. Demarcation can further vary due to tides and weather.\n\nThe word 'land' is derived from Middle English \"land\", \"lond\" and Old English \"land\", \"lond\" (“earth, land, soil, ground; defined piece of land, territory, realm, province, district; landed property; country (not town); ridge in a ploughed field”), from Proto-Germanic \"*landą\" (“land”), and from Proto-Indo-European \"*lendʰ-\" (“land, heath”). Cognate with Scots \"land\" (“land”), West Frisian \"lân\" (“land”), Dutch \"land\" (“land”), German \"Land\" (“land, country, state”), Swedish \"land\" (“land, country, shore, territory”), Icelandic \"land\" (“land”). Non-Germanic cognates include Old Irish \"lann\" (“heath”), Welsh \"llan\" (“enclosure”), Breton \"lann\" (“heath”), Old Church Slavonic \"lędо\" from Proto-Slavic \"*lenda\" (“heath, wasteland”) and Albanian \"lëndinë\" (“heath, grassland”) from \"lëndë\" (“matter, substance”).\n\nA continuous area of land surrounded by ocean is called a \"landmass\". Although it may be most often written as one word to distinguish it from the usage \"land mass\"—the measure of land area—it is also used as two words. Landmasses include supercontinents, continents, and islands. There are four major continuous landmasses on Earth: Afro-Eurasia, the Americas, Antarctica and Australia. Land, capable of being ploughed and used to grow crops, is called arable land. A country or region may be referred to as the motherland, fatherland, or homeland of its people. Many countries and other places have names incorporating -land (e.g. New Zealand).\n\nThe earliest material found in the Solar System is dated to (billion years ago); therefore, the Earth itself must have been formed by accretion around this time. By , the primordial Earth had formed. The formation and evolution of the Solar System bodies occurred in tandem with the Sun. In theory, a solar nebula partitions a volume out of a molecular cloud by gravitational collapse, which begins to spin and flatten into a circumstellar disc, which the planets then grow out of in tandem with the star. A nebula contains gas, ice grains and dust (including primordial nuclides). In nebular theory, planetesimals commence forming as particulate matter accrues by cohesive clumping and then by gravity. The assembly of the primordial Earth proceeded for 10–.\n\nEarth's atmosphere and oceans were formed by volcanic activity and outgassing that included water vapor. The origin of the world's oceans was condensation augmented by water and ice delivered by asteroids, proto-planets, and comets. In this model, atmospheric \"greenhouse gases\" kept the oceans from freezing while the newly forming Sun was only at 70% luminosity. By , the Earth's magnetic field was established, which helped prevent the atmosphere from being stripped away by the solar wind. The atmosphere and oceans of the Earth continuously shape the land by eroding and transporting solids on the surface.\n\nThe crust, which currently forms the Earth's land, was created when the molten outer layer of the planet Earth cooled to form a solid mass as the accumulated water vapor began to act in the atmosphere. Once land became capable of supporting life, biodiversity evolved over hundreds of million years, expanding continually except when punctuated by mass extinctions.\n\nThe two models that explain land mass propose either a steady growth to the present-day forms or, more likely, a rapid growth early in Earth history followed by a long-term steady continental area. Continents formed by plate tectonics, a process ultimately driven by the continuous loss of heat from the Earth's interior. On time scales lasting hundreds of millions of years, the supercontinents have formed and broken apart three times. Roughly (million years ago), one of the earliest known supercontinents, Rodinia, began to break apart. The continents later recombined to form Pannotia, 600–, then finally Pangaea, which also broke apart .\n\n\"Land mass\" refers to the total surface area of the land of a geographical region or country (which may include discontinuous pieces of land such as islands). It is written as two words to distinguish it from the usage \"landmass\", the contiguous area of land surrounded by ocean. Earth's total land mass is approximately which is about 29.2% of its total surface. Water covers approximately 70.8% of Earth's surface, mainly in the form of oceans and ice formations.\n\nCreation myths in many religions recall a story involving the creation of the world by a supernatural deity or deities, including accounts wherein the land is separated from the oceans and the air. The Earth itself has often been personified as a deity, in particular a goddess. In many cultures, the mother goddess is also portrayed as a fertility deity. To the Aztecs, Earth was called \"Tonantzin\"—\"our mother\"; to the Incas, Earth was called \"Pachamama\"—\"mother earth\". The Chinese Earth goddess Hou Tu is similar to Gaia, the Greek goddess personifying the Earth. Bhuma Devi is the goddess of Earth in Hinduism, influenced by Graha. In Norse mythology, the Earth giantess Jörð was the mother of Thor and the daughter of Annar. Ancient Egyptian mythology is different from that of other cultures because Earth (Geb) is male and sky (Nut) is female.\n\nIn the past, there were varying levels of belief in a flat Earth. The Jewish conception of a flat earth is found in both biblical and post-biblical times.\n\nIn early Egyptian and Mesopotamian thought, the world was portrayed as a flat disk floating in the ocean. The Egyptian universe was pictured as a rectangular box with a north-south orientation and with a slightly concave surface, with Egypt in the center. A similar model is found in the Homeric account of the 8th century BC in which \"Okeanos, the personified body of water surrounding the circular surface of the Earth, is the begetter of all life and possibly of all gods.\" The biblical earth is a flat disc floating on water.\n\nThe Pyramid Texts and Coffin Texts reveal that the ancient Egyptians believed Nun (the ocean) was a circular body surrounding \"nbwt\" (a term meaning \"dry lands\" or \"islands\"), and therefore believed in a similar Ancient Near Eastern circular Earth cosmography surrounded by water.\n\nThe spherical form of the Earth was suggested by early Greek philosophers, a belief espoused by Pythagoras. Contrary to popular belief, most people in the Middle Ages did not believe the Earth was flat: this misconception is often called the \"Myth of the Flat Earth\". As evidenced by thinkers such as Thomas Aquinas, the European belief in a spherical Earth was widespread by this point in time. Prior to circumnavigation of the planet and the introduction of space flight, belief in a spherical Earth was based on observations of the secondary effects of the Earth's shape and parallels drawn with the shape of other planets.\n\nMost planets known to humans are either gaseous Jovian planets or solid terrestrial planets. Terrestrial planets include Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. These inner planets have a rocky surface with metal interiors. The Jovian planets consist of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. While these planets are larger, their only land surface is a small rocky core surrounded by a large, thick atmosphere. The gas giants, Jupiter and Saturn, are thought to have surface layers composed of liquid hydrogen rather than solid land; however, their planetary geology is not well understood. The possibility of Uranus and Neptune (the ice giants) possessing hot, highly compressed, supercritical water under their thick atmospheres has been hypothesised. While their composition is still not fully understood, a 2006 study by Wiktorowicz et al. ruled out the possibility of such a water \"ocean\" existing on Neptune, though some studies have suggested that exotic oceans of liquid diamond are possible. The entire surface of a rocky planet or moon is considered land, even with a lack of seas or oceans for contrast. Planetary bodies that have a thin atmosphere often have land that is marked by impact craters since atmospheric conditions would normally break-down incoming objects and erode rough impact sites. Land on planetary bodies other than Earth can also be bought and sold although ownership of extraterrestrial real estate is not recognized by any authority.\n\nThe land of the Earth interacts with and influences climate heavily since the surface of the land heats up and cools down faster than air or water. Latitude, elevation, topography, reflectivity, and land use all have varying effects. The latitude of the land will influence how much solar radiation reaches the surface. High latitudes receive less solar radiation than low latitudes. The height of the land is important in creating and transforming airflow and precipitation on Earth. Large landforms, such as mountain ranges, divert wind energy and make the air parcel less dense and able to hold less heat. As air rises, this cooling effect causes condensation and precipitation. Reflectivity of the earth is called planetary albedo and the type of land cover that receives energy from the sun affects the amount of energy that is reflected or transferred to Earth. Vegetation has a relatively low albedo meaning that vegetated surfaces are good absorbers of the sun’s energy. Forests have an albedo of 10–15% while grasslands have an albedo of 15–20%. In comparison, sandy deserts have an albedo of 25–40%. Land use by humans also plays a role in the regional and global climate. Densely populated cities are warmer and create urban heat islands that have effects on the precipitation, cloud cover, and temperature of the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "22532674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22532674", "title": "Landmark", "text": "Landmark\n\nA landmark is a recognizable natural or artificial feature used for navigation, a feature that stands out from its near environment and is often visible from long distances.\n\nIn modern use, the term can also be applied to smaller structures or features, that have become local or national symbols.\n\nIn old English the word \"landmearc\" (from \"land\" + \"mearc\" (mark)) was used to describe an \"object set up to mark the boundaries of a kingdom, estate, etc.\". Starting from approx. 1560, this understanding of landmark was replaced by a more general one. A landmark became a \"conspicuous object in a landscape\".\nA \"landmark\" literally meant a geographic feature used by explorers and others to find their way back or through an area. For example, the Table Mountain near Cape Town, South Africa is used as the landmark to help sailors to navigate around southern tip of Africa during the Age of Exploration. Artificial structures are also sometimes built to assist sailors in naval navigation. The Lighthouse of Alexandria and Colossus of Rhodes are ancient structures built to lead ships to the port.\n\nIn modern usage, a landmark includes anything that is easily recognizable, such as a monument, building, or other structure. In American English it is the main term used to designate places that might be of interest to tourists due to notable physical features or historical significance. Landmarks in the British English sense are often used for casual navigation, such as giving directions. This is done in American English as well.\n\nIn urban studies as well as in geography, a landmark is furthermore defined as an external point of reference that helps orienting in a familiar or unfamiliar environment. Landmarks are often used in verbal route instructions and as such an object of study by linguists as well as in other fields of study.\n\nLandmarks are usually classified as either natural landmarks or man-made landmarks, both are originally used to support navigation on finding directions. A variant is a \"seamark\" or \"daymark\", a structure usually built intentionally to aid sailors navigating featureless coasts.\n\nNatural landmarks can be characteristic features, such as mountains or plateaus. Examples of natural landmarks are Table Mountain in South Africa, Mount Ararat in Turkey, Uluru in Australia, Mount Fuji in Japan and Grand Canyon in the United States. Trees might also serve as local landmarks, such as jubilee oaks or conifers. Some landmark trees may be nicknamed, examples being \"Queen's Oak\", \"Hanging Oak\" or \"Centennial Tree\".\n\nIn modern sense, landmarks are usually referred to as monuments or prominent distinctive buildings, used as the symbol of a certain area, city, or nation, such as the Statue of Unity in Narmada ,White House in Washington (D.C.), Statue of Liberty in New York City, Eiffel Tower in Paris , Colosseum in Rome, Big Ben in London, Christ the Redeemer in Rio de Janeiro, Bratislava Castle in Bratislava, Space Needle in Seattle, Sydney Harbour Bridge or the Sydney Opera House both in Sydney, Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, the CN Tower In Toronto, or Palace of Culture and Science in Warsaw. Church spires and mosque's minarets are often very tall and visible from many miles around, thus often serve as built landmarks. Also town hall towers and belfries often have a landmark character.\n\n"}
{"id": "8815598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8815598", "title": "List of Maldives-related topics", "text": "List of Maldives-related topics\n\nThis is a list of topics related to Maldives. Those interested in the subject can monitor changes to the pages by clicking on \"Related changes\" in the sidebar.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAhmed Mujuthaba (Kurinbee Live)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28339087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28339087", "title": "List of accolades received by Up", "text": "List of accolades received by Up\n\n\"Up\" is a 2009 computer-animated film produced by Pixar Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. The film, which premiered on May 29, 2009, in North America, became the first animated 3D film to open the Cannes Film Festival. It was directed by Pete Docter, co-directed by Bob Peterson, and produced by Jonas Rivera. The film centers on an elderly widower, named Carl Fredricksen, and a young Wilderness Explorer, named Russell, who fly to South America in a house suspended by helium balloons. The movie received both critical acclaim and box office success, opening in 3,766 theaters in the US, debuting at number one with $68,108,790 and grossing over $731 million worldwide.\n\nIt garnered various awards and nominations, most of them in the Best Animated Picture category and for the film's score. \"Up\" was nominated for five Academy Awards at the 2010 Ceremony, winning two, for Best Animated Feature and for Best Original Score. It was the second fully animated film to be nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture; the other was \"Beauty and the Beast\" (1991). \"Up\" became the third consecutive Pixar film to win the Academy Award for Animated Feature, after \"Ratatouille\" and \"WALL-E\". The film also won the Golden Globe for Best Original Score and the Best Animated Feature Film at the 67th Golden Globe Awards. It received the Golden Tomato, from the website Rotten Tomatoes, for highest rating feature in 2009, with an approval of 98 percent from film critics, based on 259 reviews.\n\nThe movie received nine nominations for the Annie Awards in eight categories, winning two awards for Best Animated Feature and Best Directing in a Feature Production. It also was selected as the Summer Movie Comedy at the 2009 Teen Choice Awards, and was also nominated for three Grammys at 52nd Grammy Awards, winning two of them. Rivera received the Motion Pictures Motion Picture Producer of the Year Award, for Animated Theatrical Motion Pictures, given by the Producers Guild of America, while Docter, Peterson and Giacchino were honored with British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA) awards for their work on the film. Furthermore, the film was nominated at the 2009 Satellite Awards in the categories for Best Animated or Mixed Media Film, Best Original Screenplay and Best Original Score.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13266737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13266737", "title": "List of diplomatic missions in Nauru", "text": "List of diplomatic missions in Nauru\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions in Nauru. As the Nauruan government does not maintain a website devoted to external affairs, the information on this page has been gathered from the websites of the concerned foreign ministries.\n\nYaren (\"de facto\" capital)\n\nAiwo\n\n"}
{"id": "33535426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33535426", "title": "List of flag bearers for Saint Lucia at the Olympics", "text": "List of flag bearers for Saint Lucia at the Olympics\n\nThis is a list of flag bearers who have represented Saint Lucia at the Olympics.\n\nFlag bearers carry the national flag of their country at the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "29384146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29384146", "title": "List of incidents at Walt Disney World", "text": "List of incidents at Walt Disney World\n\nThis is a summary of notable incidents that have taken place at Walt Disney World in Florida. Several people have died or been injured while riding attractions at Walt Disney World theme parks. Since 2001, Disney has been required to report incidents to state authorities. For example, from the first quarter of 2005 to the first quarter of 2006, Disney reported four deaths and nineteen injuries at its Florida parks.\n\nThe term \"incident\" refers to major injury, injuries, deaths, and significant crimes. While these incidents are required to be reported to regulatory authorities for investigation, attraction-related incidents usually fall into one of these following categories:\n\nAccording to a 1985 \"Time\" magazine article, nearly 100 lawsuits are filed against Disney each year for various incidents. Florida theme parks are required to notify the state of any ride-related injuries or illnesses that require a hospital stay of at least 24 hours.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA number of incidents involving the show's performers have occurred since the live-action show's premiere in 1989. In 1990, OSHA fined the resort $1,000 after three performers were injured in three separate incidents.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5831377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5831377", "title": "List of national border changes since World War I", "text": "List of national border changes since World War I\n\nList of national border changes since World War I refers to changes in borders between nations during or since 1914. For information on border changes from the end of the Napoleonic Wars to 1914, see List of national border changes from 1815 to 1914. This is a list of significant boundary changes with countries. This refers to where there have been changes in borders only, not necessarily including changes in ownership of a territory. For instance many European colonies in Africa became independent without any adjustment to their borders, although some did have many changes. Also mentioned are some de facto changes, not recognized by the international community, such as Crimea, Artsakh, and South Ossetia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35851049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35851049", "title": "List of newspapers in Jersey", "text": "List of newspapers in Jersey\n\nThis article is a list of newspapers in Jersey.\n\n\nThis is a partial list of some of the more notable and long-lived Jersey newspapers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56192438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56192438", "title": "List of renamed places in the Republic of the Congo", "text": "List of renamed places in the Republic of the Congo\n\nThis is a list of renamed places in the Republic of the Congo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36146735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36146735", "title": "List of tallest buildings in Dhaka", "text": "List of tallest buildings in Dhaka\n\nDhaka is the capital of Bangladesh, and is one of the most densely populated cities in the world. The father of tubular design skyscraper, Fazlur Rahman Khan was born in Dhaka, whose famous works include John Hancock Center, Sears Tower and One Shell Plaza. Dhaka city is also home to the iconic National Parliament house of Bangladesh, which is one of the most famous works of architect Louis Kahn. This list of tallest buildings in Dhaka ranks high-rises in the city based on the official height. At present there are over 200 high-rise buildings in the city and many under construction. City Centre is currently the tallest building in Dhaka, as well as Bangladesh. It rises up to a height of .\n\nThis lists ranks buildings in Dhaka based on official height. All the buildings listed below rise at least from the ground. They are either completed or topped out.\n\nThis lists buildings that are under construction in the city and are planned to rise at least 17 floors. Buildings that are only approved or proposed are not included in this table.\n\nThis lists buildings that are proposed or approved in the city, but the construction has not yet started. All the buildings listed below stand at least 22 floors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20235497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20235497", "title": "List of the last monarchs in the Americas", "text": "List of the last monarchs in the Americas\n\nThis is a list of last monarchs of the Americas.\n\nThe Native American hereditary leaders during this time are not included. Those that are listed as former monarchs of what is now the continental United States were heads of European seated monarchies (or Mexican monarchs, such as Agustín I of Mexico and Maximilian I of Mexico) and themselves never set foot on American soil. Others were indigenous monarchs, such as Malietoa Tanumafili I, Tuʻi Manuʻa Elisala and Liliuokalani of Hawaii; The last monarch of each state and territory may not be the last colonial ruler (i.e. Louis XV of France is the last French monarch of Louisiana, but Napoleon Bonaparte, prior to becoming Emperor, was the last ruler of Louisiana). Also their end of reign may not be how the US acquired these states. One state can have more than one last monarch, since each state may have been the product of many different acquisitions by the United States. Different claims of a foreign country are taken into account.\n\n"}
{"id": "26971936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26971936", "title": "Lists of tourist attractions", "text": "Lists of tourist attractions\n\nThe following lists of tourist attractions include tourist attractions in various countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNepal is the country where Mount Everest, the highest mountain peak in the world, is located. Mountaineering and other types of adventure tourism and ecotourism are important attractions for visitors. The world heritage site Lumbini, birthplace of Gautama Buddha, is located in southern Nepal, and there are other important religious pilgrimage sites throughout the country. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42888705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42888705", "title": "Malin Sea", "text": "Malin Sea\n\nThe Malin Sea is a marginal sea of the North-East Atlantic over the Malin Shelf, the continental shelf north of Ireland and southwest of Scotland. It is connected to the Irish Sea by the North Channel, and overlaps the Inner Seas off the West Coast of Scotland. Of the UK Shipping Forecast areas, the Malin Sea covers most of Malin, and by some definitions extends into Rockall. The area is within the exclusive economic zones of Ireland and the United Kingdom.\n\nDifferent authorities give different limits for the Malin Sea. The 2002 draft of the International Hydrographic Organization's \"Limits of Seas\" publication lists \"Malin Sea\" as a synonym of Inner Seas off the West Coast of Scotland. Hardisty defines it separately from the Minches and Sea of the Hebrides, which are parts of the Inner Seas; Dormels interprets Hardisty's definition as corresponding to roughly the southern half of the Inner Seas. Banner defines it as \"from the Irish Coast to lat. 56°20′N and from the Continental Shelf break to Kintyre, comprising an area of more than 14,000 km.\" Cooper et al. define the Malin Sea's southern limit as from Inishowen to Rathlin Island. The Scottish Government's Marine Atlas divides its coastal waters into habitats, one being \"Minches and Malin Sea\", defined as \"north from the Mull of Kintyre to Cape Wrath incorporating the sea area between the Scottish mainland and the Western Isles\".\n\nThe name \"Malin Sea\" comes from Malin Head, the northernmost part of the Inishowen peninsula in northwest Ireland. The name was used in scientific publications from the 1970s, and was agreed in 1998 by the signatories of the OSPAR Convention on environmental protection in the North-East Atlantic. The 2001 revised text of the Bonn Agreement on pollution in \"the Greater North Sea and its wider Approaches\" specifies the Malin Sea among the waters north and west of the North Sea within the remit of the Agreement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6877452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6877452", "title": "Merger (politics)", "text": "Merger (politics)\n\nA merger, consolidation or amalgamation, in a political or administrative sense, is the combination of two or more political or administrative entities, such as municipalities (in other words cities, towns, etc.), counties, districts, etc., into a single entity. This term is used when the process occurs within a sovereign entity.\n\nUnbalanced growth or outward expansion of one neighbor may necessitate an administrative decision to merge (see urban sprawl). In some cases, common perception of continuity may be a factor in prompting such a process (see conurbation). Some cities (see below) that have gone through amalgamation or a similar process had several administrative sub-divisions or jurisdictions, each with a separate person in charge.\n\nAnnexation is similar to amalgamation, but differs in being applied mainly to two cases:\n\nThe act of merging two or more municipalities into a single new municipality may be done for a variety of reasons, including urban growth, reducing the cost of local government and improving the efficiency of municipal service delivery.\n\nIn 1977, the 2,359 municipalities of Belgium were merged to 596 new municipalities.\n\nIn 1975, the state of Guanabara and the state of Rio de Janeiro in Brazil were merged. The former consisted of only the territorial limits of the city of Rio de Janeiro, formerly the Federal District as Brazilian capital until 1960, when it was moved to newly built Brasília. When merged, Guanabara became the municipality of Rio de Janeiro within the new state. In geographical terms, it would seem the state of Rio would have incorporated Guanabara; but, as the administrative and financial resources of the former capital were significant and even larger than the rest of the state, the change was more correctly referred to as a merger (\"fusão\").\n\nIn Canada, the 1990s saw the forced amalgamation of several municipal entities in the provinces of Nova Scotia, Ontario and Quebec into larger new municipalities. The process created what was labeled a \"megacity\" by the media, although none of the created municipalities fit in the definition of a megacity in the international sense and some of them have fewer than a million inhabitants.\n\n\n\n\nThe provincial government of Mike Harris undertook an extensive program of municipal mergers between 1996 and 2002. The province had 815 municipalities in 1996; by 2002, this had been reduced to just 447. The list of municipalities in Ontario is updated regularly.\n\n\n\n\nIn 1970, mergers brought the number of municipalities of Denmark from 1,098 to 277. In 2007, the (by then) 270 municipalities were consolidated into 98 municipalities, most of them results of mergers.\n\nAn ongoing series of mergers has reduced the number of municipalities of Finland from 432 in 2006 to 311 in 2017.\n\nSeveral states of West Germany carried out municipal merger programmes in the 1960s and 1970s. In Baden-Württemberg, the number of municipalities dropped from 3,379 to 1,110 between 1968 and 1975; in Bavaria, from roughly 7,000 to roughly 2,000 between 1972 and 1978; in Hesse, from 2,642 to 421 between 1972 and 1977; in North Rhine-Westphalia, from 2,365 to 396 between 1967 and 1975; and in Saarland, from 345 to 50 in 1974. In the Bavarian town of Ermershausen, citizens occupied the town hall to resist the merger with Maroldsweisach – unsuccessfully, although Ermershausen was reconstituted as an independent municipality in 1994 – and Horgau, also in Bavaria, successfully appealed its merger with Zusmarshausen to the Constitutional Court of Bavaria (\"Bayerischer Verfassungsgerichtshof\"). Mergers have also taken place in the former East Germany after 1990, for example in Brandenburg in 2003.\n\nThe Kallikratis Plan replaced the 1033 municipalities and communities of Greece with 325 new municipalities in 2011.\n\nBudapest, the capital and largest city in Hungary, was formed from the merger of the cities of Buda and Pest across the river Danube in 1873.\n\nIn 2003 the cities of Baqa al-Gharbiyye and Jatt joined to form the city of Baqa-Jatt, but the merger was dissolved in 2010.\n\nOn 21 April 2018, The Negeri Sembilan state government declared about merger of Seremban Municipal Council (MPS) and Nilai Municipal Council (MPN) to become Seremban City Council (MBS). Thus making Seremban elevated to city status in Jan 2019.\n\nIn November 2010, the Seven Councils of Auckland City: Auckland City Council, Manukau City Council, Waitakere City Council, North Shore City Council, Papakura District Council, Rodney District Council and most of Franklin District Council has seen amalgamated to form Auckland City Council.\n\nPortugal was one of the first countries in the world to make an enlarged modern administrative reform, particularly during the 19th century. In early 19th century, the country was divided into more than 800 municipalities. In 1832, during Portuguese Civil War, a law from Mouzinho da Silveira, minister from the liberal government-in-exile (which then ruled only in the Azores) simplified the public administration, and reduced the number of municipalities to 796. In 1836, after the liberal victory, Passos Manuel, minister from the government of the Marquess of Sá da Bandeira made a profound administrative reform which reduced significantly the number of municipalities, fixing it to 351. Passos Manuel reform followed a trend very decentralist, creating an elected municipal administration. In 1855, another series of mergers reduced the number of municipalities to 254. In the rest of the 19th century, some series of mergers occurred (particularly during the 1890s), meanwhile other municipalities were restored. Thereafter, the changes to the municipal map focused mainly on the restoration and creation of new municipalities, particularly in the 20th century. Nowadays, there are 308 municipalities in Portugal. The last alteration to the municipal map, occurred in 1998, with the creation of the municipalities of Odivelas (in Lisbon district), Trofa (in Porto district) and Vizela (in Braga district).\n\nIn 2013, more than 1,000 parishes/freguesias were merged.\n\nMany rural municipalities of Sweden were merged in 1952; the number of them decreasing from 2,281 to 816. Another series of mergers, this time also including cities and market towns, reduced the total number of municipalities from roughly 1,000 in the early 1960s to 278 in 1974. As of 2013, Sweden has 290 municipalities.\n\nIn United States politics, such a merged entity may be called a consolidated city–county.\n\n"}
{"id": "6948277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6948277", "title": "Mukims of Brunei", "text": "Mukims of Brunei\n\nA mukim is the second-level administrative division of Brunei, and the primary subdivision of a district. The community is headed by a . A mukim is further divided into villages ( or ).\n\nThere are 38 mukims of Brunei. The following is a list of mukims by districts:\n"}
{"id": "14065570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14065570", "title": "Naval Air Station Fort Lauderdale", "text": "Naval Air Station Fort Lauderdale\n\nNaval Air Station Fort Lauderdale was an airfield of the United States Navy just outside Fort Lauderdale, Florida. In 1942, the U.S. Navy selected Merle Fogg Airport in Fort Lauderdale to expand into a naval air station for both pilot and enlisted aircrew training (i.e., gunners, radiomen) in Grumman TBF Avenger torpedo bombers flown by carrier-based US Navy flight crews and by land-based US Marine Corps flight crews ashore. Additional facilities were used to train aircraft maintenance and other ground crew support for the TBF and TBM series aircraft. Among the Avenger pilots who graduated NAS Fort Lauderdale was former President George H. W. Bush, from a class in 1943.\n\nSeveral airfields in the immediate vicinity of NAS Fort Lauderdale were commissioned as Navy satellite airfields, also known as outlying fields (OLF). Several of these fields continue in operation today as civilian airports, such as Fort Lauderdale Executive Airport and North Perry Airport. \n\nTBF /TBM training was difficult and dangerous. From 1942 through 1946, 94 trainees lost their lives while serving at NAS Fort Lauderdale. Fourteen of those men made up a five-aircraft flight, now known as Flight 19, that disappeared while on a routine training mission on December 5, 1945. The need to train Avenger crews having passed, the station was decommissioned after 1946 and the facility was conveyed to the government of Broward County, Florida for use as a civilian airport. Today the facility is known as Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport.\n\nNaval Air Station Fort Lauderdale Museum\n"}
{"id": "24600456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24600456", "title": "Norwegian Geographical Society", "text": "Norwegian Geographical Society\n\nThe Norwegian Geographical Society (in Norwegian: Det norske geografiske Selskab) is a Norwegian learned society founded in 1889. Among the initiators was geologist Hans Henrik Reusch, who chaired the society from 1898 to 1903, and again from 1907 to 1909, and was also an honorary member. In a speech at the society in January 1890 polar researcher Fridtjof Nansen proposed the Fram expedition, an attempt to reach the North Pole, and the building of the polar ship Fram.\n\nThe society has published the \"Norwegian Journal of Geography\" since 1926.\n"}
{"id": "1608246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1608246", "title": "Oskar Spate", "text": "Oskar Spate\n\nOskar Hermann Khristian Spate (30 March 191129 May 2000) was a geographer best known for his role in strengthening geography as a discipline in Australia and the Pacific.\n\nSpate was born to a German father and an English mother in the Bloomsbury district of London, England. During the First World War, his father was interned as a German national and Spate fled to Iowa in the United States. He returned to England in 1919, where he developed an early interest in geography and history. He went on to study at St Catharine's College, Cambridge University in the 1930s. It was during this period that many of Spate's characteristic personality traits revealed themselves: he studied both English as well as Geography, thus cementing a deeply humanistic tendency that would become obvious in his future thinking. His irreverence and sense of humor was also manifest as well – he joined a Communist cell but was thrown out for his frivolity. He was later to claim that he could be 'solemn but not serious'. His doctoral dissertation was on the historical geography of London from 1801 to 1851.\n\nSpate's dissertation was admired, but his strong political beliefs made an academic career in England unlikely. After a year as a tutor in Reading, he took up a position at the University of Rangoon in Myanmar (then Burma) in 1937. There he became interested in the colonial struggle for independence, and produced a steady stream of high-quality work on the geography of Myanmar. When World War II broke out, Spate joined he army as a volunteer and was seriously injured in the first Japanese raid on the Rangoon airport. He was evacuated to India, where he recuperated, wrote poetry, and served in the unusual capacity of a military censor. In 1944, he moved to the Inter-Service Topographical Department in New Delhi (and later Kandy, Sri Lanka) where he was a major in charge of the section of the office dealing with Burma.\n\nIn 1947, Spate returned to England, where he served briefly as a lecturer at the Bedford College for Women, which was part of the University of London before taking up a permanent position at the London School of Economics. Spate appeared to have achieved a comfortable and prestigious academic position as a specialist in South Asian geography – it was during this time he was involved in the creation of the book \"The Changing Face of Asia\" and served on the Punjab Boundary Commission that was involved in the partition of Pakistan from India. However, Spate left England in 1951 to become the Foundation Professor of Geography at the newly established Australian National University. Spate was given \"carte blanche\" to organize the department and train students, and ended up having a large impact on geography as a discipline in Australia. In 1954, his work \"India and Pakistan: A General and Regional Geography\" was released to wide acclaim as one of the most magisterial and complete geographies of the country. Firmly established as an expert in South Asia, Spate turned his attention to Australia and the Pacific more broadly.\n\nIn 1953, Spate became an advisor to the Australian Minister for Territories, for whom he produced important papers on the economy and demography of Papua New Guinea and Fiji. His 1959 report on \"The Fijian People\" was particularly notable, because it became the document that guided how colonial administers handled the process of Fiji's independence. In 1969, he served on the commission that recommended the creation of the University of Papua New Guinea. By the 1960s, the discipline of geography was growing more quantitative. Spate's more humanistic tendencies made him uncomfortable with these trends and in 1967 he became the director of the Australian National University's Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies (RSPAS), a more administrative position which allowed him to avoid entanglement in disciplinary debates. He served in this capacity until his retirement in 1972, when he took up a position in the Department of Pacific History. He retired in 1976 and began writing his master work, a monumental three-volume history of the Pacific, \"The Spanish Lake: The Pacific Since Magellan\". He died in 2000 at the age of 89.\n\n"}
{"id": "36492295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36492295", "title": "Port de Cabús", "text": "Port de Cabús\n\nPort de Cabús (el. 2302 m.) is a mountain pass in the Pyrenees on the Andorran-Spanish border connecting the parish of La Massana with Alins. The road is paved on the Andorra side, but not on the Spanish side.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14740464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14740464", "title": "Stereoplotter", "text": "Stereoplotter\n\nA stereoplotter uses stereo photographs to determine elevations. It has been the primary method to plot contour lines on topographic maps since the 1930s. Although the specific devices have advanced technologically, they are all based on the apparent change in position of a feature in the two stereo photographs.\n\nStereoplotters have changed as technology has improved. The first stereoplotters where projection stereoplotters they used only the light rays and optics to adjust the image. The Kelsh Plotter is an example of the projection stereoplotters. The analog stereoplotters came next and were more sophisticated in that they used more sophisticated optics to view the image. The analytical stereoplotter is used today. It incorporates a computer which does the work of mathematically aligning the images so that they line up properly. The analytic stereoplotter also allows for storing the data and redrawing at any desired scale.\n\nThe stereoplotter requires two photographs that have considerable overlap (60%) and are corrected for distortion due to angle of photo. The photos are put onto transparent media and projected with a light source. Each image will be projected with overlap on the other. The operator, using a special set of optics, would then see the image as three-dimensional due to the differing perspective of each photo.\n\nThe optics of the stereoplotter is what allows the operator to plot the contours and features. The light source used to project the photo is what begins the process. One photo is projected using cyan/blue filter and the other photo is projected with a red filter. The operator wears a special set of glasses that have the same color filter for lenses. Seeing the left photo in blue light while the left eye has the blue filter and the right photo projected with red light and the right eye seeing through the red filter, the overlapping image becomes three-dimensional. The images will have control points that detail how the overlap of the photos should occur. The resultant overlapping image is called an anaglyph and is a three-dimensional model of the terrain. Once the two photos are projected and the desired control points aligned the operator will then start to record the desired elevations on the terrain by \"flying\" a light spot along the contours. If the light spot appears to hover above the terrain or appears to dive into the terrain, the operator knows that he has moved it too far away from a slope or too far toward a slope, respectively.\n\nOriginally, stereoplotters recorded the path of the flying light spot by directly scribing the path on a sheet of acetate or polyester coated with an opaque lacquer, which could be photographed to make the topographic map printing plates. If mistakes were made during contour tracing, the operator would daub some lacquer on the incorrect trace, allow it to dry and then try flying the light spot again. Current systems that use digital capture techniques allow simple erasure of part of the faulty data vector in computer memory, whereupon digitizing can resume. The digital database is then combined in a graphics program with annotations and symbols, ultimately being used to produce the map printing plates with a photoplotter.\n\nThe stereoplotter serves an important need of allowing aerial photos to become the base for contours and elevation maps. In the United States the largest use of topographic maps is the United States Geological Survey (USGS). The USGS has cataloged all of the territory of the United States and has produced topographic sheets for all of it. The sheets are most often used as 7.5' maps. This means there is 7.5' (0.125 degree) latitude by 7.5' (0.125 degree) longitude.\n\nWith the introduction of computers, the analytical stereoplotter became a popular machine of choice photogrammetry in the late 1960s to 1970s. A stereoplotter is an instrument that uses stereo photographs to determine elevations for the purpose of creating contours on topographic maps. Computers brought the capability to execute more precise calculations that ensure additional accurate output instead of approximations. This innovation also allowed a shift to a digital format rather than paper. Analytical stereoplotters edged out their analog predecessors and became the primary method of acquiring elevation data from stereo photographs.\n\nAnalytical stereoplotters use a mathematical projection based on the co-linearity (two vectors pointing in the same direction) equation model. The mechanical element of the instrument is a very accurate, computer-controlled device that compares two photographs simultaneously. The measurement system can be made to create a precise measurement for images because the photo stages only move via the x and y coordinates that are programmed into the system. The Kelsh stereoplotter by comparison, was built with a fixed focal distance and focal length of lens for projection. The ratio for scale was also fixed. In contrast, the analytical stereoplotter has no substantial limitations on focal length or scale.\n\nThe analytical stereoplotters viewing system has an optical train system, which usually includes the ability to change the focal length of a camera by adjusting the lens. Style, size and color of the measuring mark can be adjusted in viewing system as well. There is also an illumination adjustment to each eye.\n\nThe analytical stereoplotter measuring system is made up of an input device for the operator to move the elevation point in three dimensions. The input device is programmed, and the digital measure of the elevation point deviation is sent to the computer. With this information, the program then is able to set and locate points for both the interior and exterior of the elevation and record measurements. The transfer of information is immediate and thus the person operating the machine is able to make any necessary adjustments to the coordinates.\n\nElevations are measured in three steps, that include first measuring the interior orientation, then the relative orientation, and finally the absolute orientation. Interior orientation photographs are placed in relation to the center of the stereoplotter by aligning the fixed standard of reference points for measurement to corresponding points on the photograph. The focal length of the camera is also set. With relative orientation the angle of orientation of the camera relative to the place where the photos were, the stereo-photo is taken programmed in the stereoplotter. This allows the effects of parallax (distortion of the final stereo-photo) to be reduced. In absolute orientation, the ground coordinates of a position are used to scale the model. You can use this to get the x, y, or z coordinates of any position on the stereo photographs. This information can be used for the construction of contour lines for topographic maps.\n\n\nLidar (light radar) has complemented and often times replaced the stereoplotter for gathering elevation data. Lidar uses a laser pulse directed at features and detects the amount of time between when the pulse is emitted and when it is detected to determine the difference in elevations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13062448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13062448", "title": "Telephone numbers in Iraq", "text": "Telephone numbers in Iraq\n\nIraq area codes can be 1 or 2 digits (not counting the trunk prefix 0) and the subscriber numbers are usually 6 digits. In Baghdad and some other governorates, they are 7 digits. The mobile numbers have 10 digits, beginning with the 3-digit code of each operator followed by 7 digits.\n\nA call from outside Iraq would have the following dialing format when calling a:\n\n079x xxx xxxx Cell phones Zain Iraq, (formerly Iraqna)\n\n078x xxx xxxx Cell phones Zain Iraq, (formerly MTC Atheer)\n\n077x xxx xxxx Cell phones AsiaCell\n\n076x xxx xxxx Cell phones Mobitel (Iraq-Kurdistan) and Moutiny\n\n075x xxx xxxx Cell phones Korek Telecom\n\n074x xxx xxxx Cell phones Itisaluna and Kalemat\n\n073x xxx xxxx Cell phones Korek Telecom (formerly SanaTel)\n\n"}
{"id": "33041271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33041271", "title": "Telephone numbers in the Australian Antarctic Territory", "text": "Telephone numbers in the Australian Antarctic Territory\n\nCountry Code: +672 1x (partial)<br>\nInternational Call Prefix: 0011<br>\nTrunk Prefix: \n\nNational Significant Numbers (NSN):\n\nFormat: +672 1X XXXX\n\nTelephone numbers in the Australian Antarctic Territory use the same country code as Telephone numbers in Norfolk Island.\n"}
{"id": "2486825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2486825", "title": "Telephone numbers in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Telephone numbers in the Republic of Ireland\n\nNumbers on the Irish Telephone Numbering Plan are regulated and assigned to operators by ComReg.\n\nTelephone numbers in Ireland are part of an open numbering plan that allows variations in number length. The Irish format is similar to systems used in many parts of Europe, notably the Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom. Mobile and non-geographic numbers, however, are fixed length and do not support local dialling.\n\nIreland uses the trunk prefix codice_1 to access numbers outside your local area. This is followed by an area code, referred to as an NDC (National Dialling Code.) The first digit of the NDC indicates the geographical area or type of service (e.g. mobile).\n\nCalls made from mobile phones and some VoIP systems, always require the full area code and phone number.\nIn common with most European countries, the trunk prefix codice_1 must be omitted when calling Irish numbers from abroad.\n\nIrish area codes vary in length, between one and three digits (excluding the leading 0), and subscribers' numbers are between five and seven digits. A migration to a standard format, codice_3 codice_4 codice_5, is in progress; however, to avoid disruption, this process is only being carried out as needed where existing area codes and local numbering systems have reached full capacity. There is currently no plan to move to a closed numbering system.\n\nIrish geographical numbering is structured on a regional basis and follows a logical hierarchy. Two-digit telephone directory areas are divided into multiple area codes called NDCs (National Dialling Codes).\n\nThese directory areas correspond approximately to the following geographical regions: 01 - Greater Dublin, 02 - South (Cork), 04 (North East), 05 (South East) 06 (Midwest/Southwest), 07 (Northwest), 09 (West). The midlands area is covered by several regional codes.\n\nExcept for the 01 area, each area is further subdivided into smaller areas (NDCs). Usually, the main city or town in the area is 0X1. (Cork 021, Limerick 061, Galway 091 etc.)\n\nComReg maintains a map of area codes here.\n\nMobile phone numbers start with the 08x prefix and is part of a closed numbering plan. This means that a mobile phone number must have 10 digits. Calls to landlines, and the like, require the area code on mobile phone.\n\nNew numbers are assigned on prefixes and ranges managed by a specific operator, however, as full Mobile number portability has been in operation since 2003, it is no longer possible to reliably identify which network a particular number is on. For example, a newly assigned 3 Ireland number would begin with 083, however it may have been ported to another operator.\n\nMobile phone numbers in Ireland have their own voicemail number. To access this, the number 5 should be put after the prefix. For example, the mobile number codice_6 codice_7 codice_8, its voicemail number would be codice_6 codice_10 codice_7 codice_8.\n\nOn some networks, when the direct to voicemail number is called, the voicemail greeting is played (e.g. Vodafone, Meteor, etc.), while others request a phone number, then the voicemail greeting is played for that number (e.g. Three Ireland). Users can press the hash key (#) to gain access to the voicemail box.\n\nAlthough Northern Ireland is part of the UK (+44) numbering plan, a special arrangement exists for calling Northern Ireland landlines from the Republic of Ireland. Calls to Northern Ireland can be dialled using the 048 prefix or by dialling the number in the full international format. Most Irish operators treat calls to Northern Ireland at national or even local rates. Similar charging arrangements apply when calling the Republic of Ireland from Northern Ireland.\n\nFor example, to reach Belfast landline 90xx xxxx subscribers can dial either:\n\n048 90xx xxxx\n\nor\n\n00 44 28 90xx xxxx\n\nNorthern Irish mobile phones use the same mobile numbering and networks as other parts of the UK — calls must be dialled using the 00 44 7xxx xxx xxx format.\n\nIn common with all EU countries, the international access code is 00.\nCall should be dialled as follows:\n\n00 Country Code Area code (if any) - local number\n\nMobile phones may also use + instead of the 00 international access code.\n\n\n\nGeneral operator assistance no longer exists in Ireland. It used to be available by dialling 10 from within Ireland. \n\nThe emergency number for Ireland is 112. This is harmonised across the EU. \n999, the well-known historic emergency number, is also used alongside 112. Either number can be dialed.\n\n\nDeaf or hard of hearing customers can send an SMS message to 112.\n\nFurther information can be found at 112.ie.\n\nIrish premium rate telephone numbers start with codice_13 and are read in two digit blocks e.g. 1550 is \"fifteen fifty\".\nThe rates given below are from ComReg and are indicative only. Please check with your specific telephone service provider for exact rates.\n\nA special 50XXX code is used for free-of-charge SMS.\n\nPremium rate services in Ireland are regulated by ComReg.\n\n\nCarrier preselect is normally used where the exchange automatically uses the customer's preferred provider(s).\n\n\nThese services give you more information about your phone line (applicable only to lines provided using the OpenEir access network.)\n\n\nCheck which carrier you are using for each category of call:\n\n\nSpecial short codes are used to control various supplementary services offered by digital local exchanges. These services were first introduced as 'PhonePlus' in 1981 on the first generation of Alcatel E10 and Ericsson AXE digital exchanges used in Ireland and were rolled out nationally throughout the 1980s. \nThese services are available on all Irish PSTN lines, regardless of operator. There is a more expansive range of services available, but these are the most commonly used. Different codes apply on cable telephony lines, such as those provided by Virgin Media Ireland and on VoIP providers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWhen this service is active, the dial tone changes to a two-frequency 'siren' tone.\n\nMost exchanges confirm setup with a verbal announcement, however some exchanges may use a ringing tone to indicate successful service setup and a busy tone to indicate an error / invalid code.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nYou will either hear a tone or a voice message to confirm services have been set up or deactivated.\n\n\nSeveral major number changes have occurred since 2000.\n\nThe majority of Area codes in County Donegal were combined into a single area code (074) with 7-digit local numbering. While other parts of South Donegal were combined into the (071) area code (e.g. Bundoran, Rossnowlagh) \nThe area codes abolished were 073, 075 and 077. \nAll local numbers became 7-digit.\n\nArea codes in Sligo and North Leitrim were merged into the single area code 071 with 7-digit local numbering.\nThe area codes abolished were 072, 078 and 079.\nAll local numbers became 7-digit.\n\nArea codes in parts of Galway and Mayo were merged into a single 094 area including Castlebar, Swinford, Claremorris, Ballaghadereen, Castlerae and Ballinrobe\nThe area codes abolished were 0907 and 092.\nAll local numbers became 7-digit.\n\nA new area code 090 replaced four codes in the West Midlands including Athlone, Banagher North, Ballinasloe, Roscommon and Portumna.\nThe area codes abolished were 0902, 0903, 0905 and 0509\nAll local numbers became 7-digit.\n\nArea codes in the East Midlands were merged into the single 046 area code including Navan, Nobber, Kells, Trim, Enfield and Edenderry.\nThe 0405 area code was abolished.\nAll local numbers became 7-digit.\n\nLocal numbering changed from 5-digit to 7-digit local in the following area (without area code change).\n044 Mullingar numbers were prefixed by 93 and Tyrrellspass numbers were prefixed by 92 and Costlepollard numbers were prefixed by 96.\n\nNumbers in Portlaoise, Birr and Tullamore were merged into a new 057 area code.\nThe area codes abolished were 0502, 0506 and 0509'.\nAll local numbers became 7-digit.\n\nArea codes in the southeast were merged into the single 053 area code including Wexford, Enniscorthy and Gorey.\nThe area codes abolished were 054, 055.\nAll local numbers became 7-digit.\n\nLocal numbering changed from 5-digit to 7-digit local in the following areas (without area code change).\n023 Bandon numbers beginning with 2,3,4,5,7 and 8 were prefixed by 88 while numbers beginning with 6 were prefixed by 66.\n'043 Longford numbers were prefixed by 33 and Granard numbers were prefixed by 66.\n052 Clonmel numbers were prefixed by 61, Cahir numbers were prefixed by 74 and Killenaule numbers were prefixed by 91.\n064 Killarney numbers were prefixed by 66 and Rathmore numbers were prefixed by 77.\n\n\nDublin numbers are currently seven digits, but may change to eight digits in the future, although breaking the city into separate area codes would match the rest of the national system. A review and public consultation on the future of Ireland's numbering plan was undertaken.\n\n\n\nA range of numbers from 192, 193 and 194 were once used for various Telecom Éireann customer service and account service lines.\n\n\nExample Belfast (01232) xxx xxx was reached by dialling: 08 01232 xxx xxx\n\nPreviously Belfast could be reached by dialling 084 in place of the UK area code 0232.\n\nUntil the early 1990s, the 03 numbering range was originally used for calls to Great Britain, including the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man, with the Irish prefix 030 replacing the UK trunk code 0. Calls to British cities using the Director telephone system were also possible using shorter codes:\n\n\nWhen London was split into two area codes, 071 and 081 in 1990, 031 was replaced with the codes 03071 and 03081 respectively.\n\nUse of the 03 range for this purpose was discontinued in 1993, when the international access code changed from 16 to 00, with calls to Great Britain (but not Northern Ireland) requiring the country code 44 and the area code in full.\n\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "19111776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19111776", "title": "Third Border Initiative", "text": "Third Border Initiative\n\nThe Third Border Initiative (TBI) is an area of policy concerning United States and the Caribbean region. The phrase was especially made popular by the administration of the President of the United States George W. Bush. The Third Border Initiative was a reference to the Caribbean region's adjacent placement to the United States of America. The policy is the ideology that behind Canada and Mexico the Caribbean region is a Sea-based border of the United States.\n\nThe initiative also builds upon the founding of the Caribbean/United States - Partnership for Prosperity and Security in the Caribbean (1997). An agreement which is sometimes called the \"Bridgetown Accord\". This agreement is also complimented with other agreements for Maritime co-operation between the United States and countries of the Caribbean region. These other agreements include: the \"Maritime Counter-Narcotics Co-operation Agreement\" (1996), the \"Maritime Counter-Narcotics (\"Shiprider\") Agreement\" (1997), and the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative. Many of these agreements were signed between the Clinton Administration of the United States, and the various independent countries of the Caribbean region in May 1997.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3040335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3040335", "title": "TopSat", "text": "TopSat\n\nTopSat (Tactical Operational Satellite) is a British Earth observation satellite, currently in Low Earth Orbit. The nanosatellite was launched in October 2005 alongside the Beijing-1 Disaster Monitoring Constellation satellite by a Cosmos rocket from Plesetsk Cosmodrome in Russia.\n\nTopSat carries out imaging with a ground resolution of 2.5 m. Much smaller and cheaper than other imaging satellites of similar high resolution, TopSat has been used to demonstrate the feasibility of providing images on demand to portable ground stations, such as that which might be deployed by the military or another disaster relief organisation.\n\nTopSat was built in the United Kingdom by Surrey Satellite Technology Ltd, QinetiQ and The Rutherford Appleton Laboratory under the British National Space Centre Mosaic programme. The engineering model of TopSat now lives in the space gallery of London's Science Museum.\n\nTopSat won the 2006 Popular Science \"Best of What's New\" Grand Award in the Aviation and Space category.\n\n"}
{"id": "683327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=683327", "title": "Total station", "text": "Total station\n\nA total station (TS) or total station theodolite (TST) is an electronic/optical instrument used for surveying and building construction. It is an electronic transit theodolite integrated with electronic distance measurement (EDM) to measure both vertical and horizontal angles and the slope distance from the instrument to a particular point, and an on-board computer to collect data and perform triangulation calculations.\n\nRobotic or motorized total stations allow the operator to control the instrument from a distance via remote control. This eliminates the need for an assistant staff member as the operator holds the retroreflector and controls the total station from the observed point. These motorized total stations can also be used in automated setups knows as Automated Motorized Total Station (AMTS).\n\nMost total station instruments measure angles by means of electro-optical scanning of extremely precise digital bar-codes etched on rotating glass cylinders or discs within the instrument. The best quality total stations are capable of measuring angles to 0.5 arc-second. Inexpensive \"construction grade\" total stations can generally measure angles to 5 or 10 arc-seconds.\n\nMeasurement of distance is accomplished with a modulated infrared carrier signal, generated by a small solid-state emitter within the instrument's optical path, and reflected by a prism reflector or the object under survey. The modulation pattern in the returning signal is read and interpreted by the computer in the total station. The distance is determined by emitting and receiving multiple frequencies, and determining the integer number of wavelengths to the target for each frequency. Most total stations use purpose-built glass prism (surveying) reflectors for the EDM signal. A typical total station can measure distances with an accuracy of about + 2 parts per million over a distance of up to .\n\nReflectorless total stations can measure distances to any object that is reasonably light in color, up to a few hundred meters.\n\nThe coordinates of an unknown point relative to a known coordinate can be determined using the total station as long as a direct line of sight can be established between the two points. Angles and distances are measured from the total station to points under survey, and the coordinates (X, Y, and Z or easting, northing and elevation) of surveyed points relative to the total station position are calculated using trigonometry and triangulation.\nTo determine an absolute location a Total Station requires line of sight observations and can be set up over a known point or with line of sight to 2 or more points with known location, called free stationing.\n\nFor this reason, some total stations also have a Global Navigation Satellite System receiver and do not require a direct line of sight to determine coordinates. However, GNSS measurements may require longer occupation periods and offer relatively poor accuracy in the vertical axis.\n\nSome models include internal electronic data storage to record distance, horizontal angle, and vertical angle measured, while other models are equipped to write these measurements to an external data collector, such as a hand-held computer.\n\nWhen data is downloaded from a total station onto a computer, application software can be used to compute results and generate a map of the surveyed area. The newest generation of total stations can also show the map on the touch-screen of the instrument immediately after measuring the points.\n\nTotal stations are mainly used by land surveyors and civil engineers, either to record features as in topographic surveying or to set out features (such as roads, houses or boundaries). They are also used by archaeologists to record excavations and by police, crime scene investigators, private accident reconstructionists and insurance companies to take measurements of scenes. \n\nTotal stations are the primary survey instrument used in mining surveying.\n\nA total station is used to record the absolute location of the tunnel walls, ceilings (backs), and floors as the drifts of an underground mine are driven. The recorded data are then downloaded into a CAD program, and compared to the designed layout of the tunnel.\n\nThe survey party installs control stations at regular intervals. These are small steel plugs installed in pairs in holes drilled into walls or the back. For wall stations, two plugs are installed in opposite walls, forming a line perpendicular to the drift. For back stations, two plugs are installed in the back, forming a line parallel to the drift.\n\nA set of plugs can be used to locate the total station set up in a drift or tunnel by processing measurements to the plugs by intersection and resection.\n\nTotal stations have become the highest standard for most forms of construction layout.\n\nThey are most often used in the X and Y axis to lay out the locations of penetrations out of the underground utilities into the foundation, between floors of a structure, as well as roofing penetrations.\n\nBecause more commercial and industrial construction jobs have become centered around building information modeling (BIM), the coordinates for almost every pipe, conduit, duct and hanger support are available with digital precision. The application of communicating a virtual model to a tangible construction potentially eliminates labor costs related to moving poorly measured systems, as well as time spent laying out these systems in the midst of a full blown construction job in progress.\n\nMeteorologists also use total stations to track weather balloons for determining upper-level winds. With the average ascent rate of the weather balloon known or assumed, the change in azimuth and elevation readings provided by the total station as it tracks the weather balloon over time are used to compute the wind speed and direction at different altitudes. Additionally, the total station is used to track ceiling balloons to determine the height of cloud layers. Such upper-level wind data is often used for aviation weather forecasting and rocket launches.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19936393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19936393", "title": "Wingspread Conference on the Precautionary Principle", "text": "Wingspread Conference on the Precautionary Principle\n\nThe Wingspread Conference on the Precautionary Principle was a three-day academic conference where the precautionary principle was defined. The January 1998 meeting took place at Wingspread, headquarters of the Johnson Foundation in Racine, Wisconsin, and involved 35 scientists, lawyers, policy makers and environmentalists from the United States, Canada and Europe. \n\nThe formal concept evolved out of the German socio-legal tradition in the 1930s, centering on the concept of good household management. In German the concept is \"Vorsorgeprinzip\", which translates into English as \"precaution principle\".\n\nMany of the concepts underpinning the precautionary principle pre-date the term's inception. For example, the essence of the principle is captured in a number of cautionary aphorisms such as \"an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure\", \"better safe than sorry\", and \"look before you leap\". The precautionary principle may also be interpreted as the evolution of the ancient medical principle of \"first, do no harm\" to apply to institutions and institutional decision-making processes rather than individuals.\n\nIn the final text of the agreement, it was agreed that the precautionary principle could be summarized as\ncv \nWhen an activity raises threats of harm to human health or the environment, precautionary measures should be taken even if some cause and effect relationships are not fully established scientifically.\nThe members also concluded that current environmental policies do not do enough to prevent environmental disasters instead of controlling damage after an incident.\n\nThe February 2, 2000 European Commission Communication on the Precautionary Principle notes: \"The precautionary principle applies where scientific evidence is insufficient, inconclusive or uncertain and preliminary scientific evaluation indicates that there are reasonable grounds for concern that the potentially dangerous effects on the environment, human, animal or plant health may be inconsistent with the high level of protection chosen by the EU\".\n\nThe January 29, 2000 Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety says: \"Lack of scientific certainty due to insufficient relevant scientific information ... shall not prevent the Party of import, in order to avoid or minimize such potential adverse effects, from taking a decision, as appropriate, with regard to the import of the living modified organism in question.\"\n"}
{"id": "7725089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7725089", "title": "Yumen Pass", "text": "Yumen Pass\n\nYumen Pass (), or Jade Gate or Pass of the Jade Gate, is the name of a pass of the Great Wall located west of Dunhuang in today's Gansu Province of China. During the Han dynasty (202 BC - AD 220), this was a pass through which the Silk Road passed, and was the one road connecting Central Asia and China, the former called the Western Regions. Just to the south was the Yangguan pass, which was also an important point on the Silk Road.\n\nAlthough the Chinese \"guan\" is usually translated simply as \"pass\", its more specific meaning is a \"frontier pass\" to distinguish it from an ordinary pass through the mountains. \"Yumen guan\" 玉門關 and \"Yang guan\" 陽關 are derived from: \"yu\" 玉 = 'jade' + \"men\" 門 = 'gate', 'door'; and \"yang\" 陽 = 'sunny side', 'south side of a hill', 'north side of a river,' and \"guan\" 關 = ‘frontier-passes’. These were the two most famous passes leading to the north and west from Chinese territory. During the Early Han, \"... a defensive line was established from Jiuquan ('Wine Springs') in the \"Gansu\" Corridor west to the Jade Gate Pass at its end.\" \n\nIt is not to be confused with the city Yumen (玉門, literally \"Jade Gate\") in Gansu, China. Although both are within the same Jiuquan \"prefecture-level city\" (a multi-county administrative unit) of Gansu province, Yumen Pass is located some 400 km to the west of its namesake city.\n\n"}
