{"id": "58683697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58683697", "title": "2010 gang rapes in Cleveland, Texas", "text": "2010 gang rapes in Cleveland, Texas\n\nThe 2010 gang rapes in Cleveland, Texas were a series of acts of sexual violence committed by a group of adult men and teenage boys on an underage girl in the town of Cleveland, in Texas, USA.\nThe victim was the 11-year old daughter of Mexican immigrants, living in Cleveland, Texas, a \"timber town\" of about nine thousand people in the Greater Houston metropolitan area and Liberty County. Her father was a former construction worker, unemployed at the time for a year and a half because of a back injury, while her mother was working making change in a slot game room.\n\nThe group of perpetrators included students at the local high school, two of whom were members of the basketball team and one the son of a school-board member, and persons with criminal records, from selling drugs to robbery and, in one case, manslaughter. They ranged from middle schoolers to one 27-year-old, at the time of the crime.\nOn the Monday after Thanksgiving day, on 29 November 2010, a cell phone video clip with images of the sexual encounter between a group of males and a young female circulated in the cafeteria of Cleveland's high school. Some viewers recognized the girl as a 6th grader from the middle school next door. A friend of the girl told a teacher what he had seen in the cell-phone video, as a school-district spokeswoman subsequently stated, and the police were alerted.\nPolice investigators identified and contacted the girl, whereupon she stated that, over the 2010 Thanksgiving holiday break, she was raped by a group of young men first at a house and then in a mobile home. According to a search warrant affidavit obtained by the media, police determined the video clip was recorded inside an abandoned mobile home on the city's northern outskirts, next to a Baptist church. According to the subsequent, criminal indictments, the girl was assaulted on four separate occasions: the first in September, followed by three more throughout the fall of 2010. In January 2011, she was removed by social workers from her parents' home and taken to foster care.\n\nThe investigation stirred racial tensions on account of the defendants all being African-Americans and the girl Hispanic, in both the town and nationwide. The event was publicized nationwide in the States and also abroad.\n\nOn Monday 4 April 2011, nineteen defendants appeared in the court of Liberty County district judge Mark Morefield for their arraignment hearing, with six of them pleading \"not guilty.\"\n\nThe \"New York Times\"' first report focused on the impact of the crime on the Cleveland community. The report came under criticism for its alleged \"sympathy\" for the accused, to the point where the newspaper sent another reporter back at the place and published a self-critical article.\n\nQuanell X, community leader and head of the New Black Panthers, was an \"outspoken critic\" of the victim. In a press conference in front of a Cleveland church, he asked rhetorically where the girl's parents were when this happened and why was \"that child experiencing so much sex with so many African-American men.\" He also disputed the rape claims since, as he put it, the girl never actually yelled the word \"rape\" during the assault and did not make an \"outcry\" until after footage of the assault surfaced. The media reported that the audience \"cheered and hollered in agreement.\"\n\nFlorida representative Kathleen Passidomo proposed that the state should step in and regulate the wardrobe of young girls. Pasidomo referred to \"an article about an 11 year old girl who was gang-raped in Texas by 18 young men because she was dressed like a 21-year-old prostitute.”\n\nIn Texas, sexual assault against a person under 17 years of age is a second degree felony, and aggravated sexual assault a first degree felony. Eventually, twenty-one persons were charged with crimes related to the gang rape. Only two adult males requested trials, and juries handed each defendant a 99-year prison sentence. Eleven other adult males pleaded guilty to the charges against them and received 15-year sentences in exchange. All seven juveniles entered guilty pleas and received seven-year probated prison-sentences. The twenty-first and last defendant pleaded guilty after a year long investigation whereby a DNA specimen identified him as being at the crime scene. The defendant received a reduced seven-year sentence in exchange for pleading guilty to indecently exposing himself to a child. All defendants sentenced to prison would be registered as sex offenders for ten years after completing the sentence.\n\nWhen the investigation started, the victim's family moved to another town after police detectives told the parents that they were in danger, while the girl who was reported as raped was placed by the Child Protective Services in the care of the Girls' Haven in Beaumont, Texas. In December 2011, she ran away from the residential facility and was \"on the streets for about a week,\" as the Jefferson County prosecutor stated. He revealed that, at some point, she met a 30-year-old male with a prior conviction as a drug dealer in Fort Bend County, who subsequently assaulted her at his apartment in Beaumont. The assailant was arrested and pleaded guilty in September 2012 to aggravated sexual assault of a child in exchange for deferred probation. In 2013, the girl revealed she was pregnant, allegedly from her \"15-year old boyfriend,\" and that they would keep the baby.\n"}
{"id": "29555364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29555364", "title": "Ableism", "text": "Ableism\n\nAbleism (; also known as ablism, disablism (Brit. English), anapirophobia, anapirism, and disability discrimination) is discrimination and social prejudice against people with disabilities. Ableism characterizes persons as defined by their disabilities and as inferior to the non-disabled. On this basis, people are assigned or denied certain perceived abilities, skills, or character orientations.\n\nThere are stereotypes associated with various disabilities. These stereotypes in turn serve as a justification for ableist practices and reinforce discriminatory attitudes and behaviors toward people who are disabled. Labeling affects people when it limits their options for action or changes their identity.\n\nIn ableist societies, people with disabilities are viewed as less valuable, or even less than human. The eugenics movement of the early 20th century could be considered an example of widespread ableism. The mass murder of disabled in Nazi Germany's Aktion T4 could be an extreme example of ableism.\n\nOriginated from -able (in disable, disabled) and plus -ism; first known use in 1985-1990.\n\nHitler signed the secret euthanasia program decree, Aktion T4, in 1939 that allowed the killing of selected patients with chronic neurological, psychiatric disorders. This program took the lives of about 70,000 men, women and children with disabilities; this program was officially halted by Hitler in 1941 under public pressure but was continued unofficially out of the public eye, taking an additional 200,000 until the fall of Hitler's reign in 1945.\n\nIn the UK, disability discrimination became unlawful as a result of the Disability Discrimination Act 1995, and the Disability Discrimination Act 2005. These were later repealed, but the substantive law is replicated in the Equality Act 2010. Under the Equality Act 2010 there are several types of discrimination that are prohibited. These are direct discrimination (s.13(1) Equality Act 2010), indirect discrimination (s.6 and s.19 Equality Act 2010, harassment (s.26 Equality Act 2010), victimisation (s.27(2) Equality Act 2010), discrimination arising from disability (s.15(1) Equality Act 2010 and failure to make reasonable adjustments (s.20 Equality Act 2010).\n\nThe legal definition of disability used in the law is:\n\n\"\"A person (P) has a disability if P has a physical or mental impairment, and the impairment has a substantial and long-term adverse effect on his ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities\".\"(Section 6(1), Equality Act 2010)\n\nSome conditions (such as blindness, AIDS and cancer) are included; others (such as drug and alcohol addictions) are excluded.\n\nBefore the 1800s, perspective of disability was often in a religious lens. Individuals with disability were seen as evil or possessed by the devil. Much like many minority groups, disabled Americans were often segregated and denied certain rights for a majority of American history. In the 1800s shift from a religious view to a more scientific view took place and caused more individuals with disabilities to be examined. Public stigma began to change after World War II when many Americans returned home with disabilities and physical handicaps. In the 1960s, following the civil rights movement in America, the world began the disabled rights movement. The movement was intended to give all individuals with disabilities equal rights and opportunities. Until the 1970s, ableism in the United States was often codified into law. For example, in many jurisdictions, so-called \"ugly laws\" barred people from appearing in public if they had diseases or disfigurements that were considered unsightly.\n\nSection 504 and other sections of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 enacted into law certain civil penalties for failing to make public places comply with access codes known as the ADA Access Guidelines (ADAAG). These laws prohibit direct discrimination against disabled people in government programs, employment, public transit and public accommodations like stores and restaurants.\n\nThe Voting Accessibility for the Elderly and Handicapped Act was passed to promote the fundamental right to vote by improving access for handicapped and elderly individuals to registration facilities and polling places for Federal elections by requiring access to polling places used in Federal elections and available registration and voting aids, such as instructions in large type \n\nThe federal Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 prohibits housing discrimination on the basis of disability and requires that newly constructed multi-family housing meet certain access guidelines while requiring landlords to allow disabled persons to modify existing dwellings for accessibility.\n\nThe Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) was passed in on July 26, 1990 by the George H. W. Bush administration and amended on January 1, 2009. The act gave individuals with disabilities civil rights protections.\n\nThe Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) is a four-part (A-D) piece of American legislation that ensures students with a disability are provided with Free Appropriate Public Education (FAPE) that is tailored to their individual needs. IDEA was previously known as the Education for All Handicapped Children Act (EHA) from 1975 to 1990. In 1990, the United States Congress reauthorized EHA and changed the title to IDEA (Public Law No. 94-142). Overall, the goal of IDEA is to provide children with disabilities the same opportunity for education as those students who do not have a disability.\n\nIn 1990, the Americans with Disabilities Act was put in place to prohibit private employers, state and local government, employment agencies and labor unions from discrimination against qualified individuals with disabilities in job applications, when hiring, firing, advancement in workplace, compensation, training, and on other terms, conditions and privileges of employment. The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, also known as the EEOC also plays a part in fighting against ableism by being responsible for enforcing federal laws that make it illegal to discriminate against a job applicant or an employee because of the person's race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy, gender identity, and sexual orientation), national origin, age (40 or older), disability or genetic information. Despite legislation to reduce disability discrimination, roughly 13.3 million Americans with disabilities report difficulty finding a job.\n\nAbleism often makes the world unwelcoming, and inaccessible to people with disabilities—especially in schools. An ableist would assert that children with disabilities need to assimilate to normative culture. For example, a student who experiences a disability needs to read text instead of listening to a tape recording of the text. In the past, schools focused too much on fixing the disability, but due to progressive reforms, school’s goals are centered on minimizing the impact of a student’s disability, and giving support, skills, and opportunities to live a full life. Moreover, schools must maximize access to the school community as whole. In 2004, Congress made into law the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, which states that free and appropriate education is eligible to children with disabilities with insurance of necessary services. Congress later amended the law, in 2015, to include the Every Student Succeeds Act, which guarantees equal opportunity for people with disabilities full participation in society, and the tools for overall independent success.\n\nDisabilities are not only misrepresented in the media but often underepresented as well. These common ways of framing disability are heavily criticized for being dehumanizing and failing to place importance on the perspectives of persons with disabilities. While roughly 20 percent of the population is disabled, only 2 percent of characters played in television and film have a disability. 95 percent of the time, disabled characters are played by actors and actresses who are not disabled. The Ruderman Family Foundation is a private philanthropic foundation established in 2002 in Boston, USA, managed by the Ruderman family. The foundation operates in America and in Israel in two main areas: inclusion of people with disabilities in society and strengthening the relationship between Israel and the American Jewish community, while promoting strategic philanthropy and expanding circles of giving and involvement. The foundation has released a series of papers discussing various disability studies including disability in the media.\n\nOne common form of media depiction of disability is to portray villains with a mental or physical disability. Lindsey Row-Heyveld notes, for instance, “that villainous pirates are scraggly, wizened, and inevitably kitted out with a peg leg, eye patch, or hook hand whereas heroic pirates look like Johnny Depp's Jack Sparrow.” The disability of the villain is meant to separate them from the average viewer and dehumanize the antagonist. As a result, stigma forms surrounding the disability and the individuals that live with it.\n\nInspiration porn is the use of people with disabilities as a form of inspiration when performing ordinary tasks. Criticisms of inspiration porn say that it distances people with disabilities from able-bodied individuals and portrays disability as an obstacle to overcome or rehab.\n\nIn many forms of media such as films and articles a person who experiences disability is portrayed as a character who is viewed as less than able, different and an 'outcast'. Hayes & Black (2003) explore Hollywood films as the discourse of pity towards disability as a problem of social, physical and emotional confinement. The aspect of pity is heightened through the storylines of media focusing on the individuals weaknesses as opposed to strengths and therefore leaving audiences a negative and ableist portrayal towards disability.\n\nSports are often an area of society in which ableism is evident. In sports media, athletes with disabilities are often portrayed to be inferior. When athletes with disabilities are discussed in the media, there is often an emphasis on rehabilitation and the road to recovery, which is inherently a negative view on the disability. Oscar Pistorius is a South African runner who competed in the 2004, 2008, and 2012 Paralympics and the 2012 Olympic games in London. Oscar was the first double amputee athlete to compete in the Olympic games. While media coverage focused on inspiration and competition during his time in the Paralympic games, it shifted to questioning whether his prosthetic legs gave him an advantage while competing in the Olympic games.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2042281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2042281", "title": "Abu al-Qasim al-Habib Neishapuri", "text": "Abu al-Qasim al-Habib Neishapuri\n\nAbu al-Qasim al-Habib Neishaburi was a Persian physician from Khorasan who lived before 1750CE. His name indicates he was from Nishapur.\n\nHe is known to have written two Arabic treatises on Prophetic medicine. One is in a unique copy now at The National Library of Medicine, copied in 1792CE, and the other is preserved in a unique copy now in Los Angeles that was copied in 1750CE.\n\nTherefore, the author must have been active before 1750CE. Since he cites amongst his authorities Ibn Shahin, who composed his major work in 1453CE, we know that Naysaburi must have been active after the mid-15th century.\n\nNothing else is known about this author.\n\n\nFor the manuscript now in Los Angeles, see A.Z. Iskandar, \"A Descriptive List of Arabic Manuscripts on Medicine and Science at the University of California, Los Angeles\" (Leiden: Brill, 1984), p. 82.\n"}
{"id": "5033373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5033373", "title": "Action selection", "text": "Action selection\n\nAction selection is a way of characterizing the most basic problem of intelligent systems: what to do next. In artificial intelligence and computational cognitive science, \"the action selection problem\" is typically associated with intelligent agents and animats—artificial systems that exhibit complex behaviour in an agent environment. The term is also sometimes used in ethology or animal behavior.\n\nOne problem for understanding action selection is determining the level of abstraction used for specifying an \"act\". At the most basic level of abstraction, an atomic act could be anything from \"contracting a muscle cell\" to \"provoking a war\". Typically for any one action-selection mechanism, the set of possible actions is predefined and fixed.\n\nMost researchers working in this field place high demands on their agents: \n\nFor these reasons action selection is not trivial and attracts a good deal of research.\n\nThe main problem for action selection is complexity. Since all computation takes both time and space (in memory), agents cannot possibly consider every option available to them at every instant in time. Consequently, they must be biased, and constrain their search in some way. For AI, the question of action selection is \"what is the best way to constrain this search\"? For biology and ethology, the question is \"how do various types of animals constrain their search? Do all animals use the same approaches? Why do they use the ones they do?\"\n\nOne fundamental question about action selection is whether it is really a problem at all for an agent, or whether it is just a description of an emergent property of an intelligent agent's behavior. However, if we consider how we are going to build an intelligent agent, then it becomes apparent there must be \"some\" mechanism for action selection. This mechanism may be highly distributed (as in the case of distributed organisms such as social insect colonies or slime mold) or it may be a special-purpose module.\n\nThe action selection mechanism (ASM) determines not only the agent’s actions in terms of impact on the world, but also directs its perceptual attention, and updates its memory. These egocentric sorts of actions may in turn result in modifying the agents basic behavioural capacities, particularly in that updating memory implies some form of machine learning is possible. Ideally, action selection itself should also be able to learn and adapt, but there are many problems of combinatorial complexity and computational tractability that may require restricting the search space for learning.\n\nIn AI, an ASM is also sometimes either referred to as an agent architecture or thought of as a substantial part of one.\n\nGenerally, artificial action selection mechanisms can be divided into several categories: symbol-based systems sometimes known as classical planning, distributed solutions, and reactive or dynamic planning. Some approaches do not fall neatly into any one of these categories. Others are really more about providing scientific models than practical AI control; these last are described further in the next section.\n\nEarly in the history of artificial intelligence, it was assumed that the best way for an agent to choose what to do next would be to compute a probably optimal plan, and then execute that plan. This led to the physical symbol system hypothesis, that a physical agent that can manipulate symbols is necessary and sufficient for intelligence. Many software agents still use this approach for action selection. It normally requires describing all sensor readings, the world, all of ones actions and all of one's goals in some form of predicate logic. Critics of this approach complain that it is too slow for real-time planning and that, despite the proofs, it is still unlikely to produce optimal plans because reducing descriptions of reality to logic is a process prone to errors.\n\nSatisficing is a decision-making strategy which attempts to meet criteria for adequacy, rather than identify an optimal solution. A satisficing strategy may often, in fact, be (near) optimal if the costs of the decision-making process itself, such as the cost of obtaining complete information, are considered in the outcome calculus.\n\nGoal driven architectures – In these symbolic architectures, the agent's behaviour is typically described by a set of goals. Each goal can be achieved by a process or an activity, which is described by a prescripted plan. The agent must just decide which process to carry on to accomplish a given goal. The plan can expand to subgoals, which makes the process slightly recursive. Technically, more or less, the plans exploits condition-rules. These architectures are reactive or hybrid. Classical examples of goal driven architectures are implementable refinements of belief-desire-intention architecture like JAM or IVE. \n\nIn contrast to the symbolic approach, distributed systems of action selection actually have no one \"box\" in the agent which decides the next action. At least in their idealized form, distributed systems have many modules running in parallel and determining the best action based on local expertise. In these idealized systems, overall coherence is expected to emerge somehow, possibly through careful design of the interacting components. This approach is often inspired by artificial neural networks research. In practice, there is almost always \"some\" centralised system determining which module is \"the most active\" or has the most salience. There is evidence real biological brains also have such executive decision systems which evaluate which of the competing systems deserves the most attention, or more properly, has its desired actions disinhibited.\n\nBecause purely distributed systems are difficult to construct, many researchers have turned to using explicit hard-coded plans to determine the priorities of their system.\n\nDynamic or reactive planning methods compute just one next action in every instant based on the current context and pre-scripted plans. In contrast to classical planning methods, reactive or dynamic approaches do not suffer combinatorial explosion. On the other hand, they are sometimes seen as too rigid to be considered strong AI, since the plans are coded in advance. At the same time, natural intelligence can be rigid in some contexts although it is fluid and able to adapt in others.\n\nExample dynamic planning mechanisms include:\n\nSometimes to attempt to address the perceived inflexibility of dynamic planning, hybrid techniques are used. In these, a more conventional AI planning system searches for new plans when the agent has spare time, and updates the dynamic plan library when it finds good solutions. The important aspect of any such system is that when the agent needs to select an action, some solution exists that can be used immediately (see further anytime algorithm).\n\n\nMany dynamic models of artificial action selection were originally inspired by research in ethology. In particular, Konrad Lorenz and Nikolaas Tinbergen provided the idea of an innate releasing mechanism to explain instinctive behaviors (fixed action patterns). Influenced by the ideas of William McDougall, Lorenz developed this into a \"psychohydraulic\" model of the motivation of behavior. In ethology, these ideas were influential in the 1960s, but they are now regarded as outdated because of their use of an energy flow metaphor; the nervous system and the control of behavior are now normally treated as involving information transmission rather than energy flow. Dynamic plans and neural networks are more similar to information transmission, while spreading activation is more similar to the diffuse control of emotional / hormonal systems.\n\nStan Franklin has proposed that action selection is the right perspective to take in understanding the role and evolution of mind. See his page on the action selection paradigm.\n\nSome researchers create elaborate models of neural action selection. See for example:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "160210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160210", "title": "Alexander of Greece", "text": "Alexander of Greece\n\nAlexander (, \"Aléxandros\"; 1 August 189325 October 1920) was King of Greece from 11 June 1917 until his death three years later, at the age of 27, from the effects of a monkey bite.\n\nThe second son of King Constantine I, Alexander was born in the summer palace of Tatoi on the outskirts of Athens. He succeeded his father in 1917, during World War I, after the Entente Powers and the followers of Eleftherios Venizelos pushed Constantine I, and his eldest son Crown Prince George, into exile. Having no real political experience, the new king was stripped of his powers by the Venizelists and effectively imprisoned in his own palace. Venizelos, as prime minister, was the effective ruler with the support of the Entente. Though reduced to the status of a puppet king, Alexander supported Greek troops during their war against the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria. Under his reign, the territorial extent of Greece considerably increased, following the victory of the Entente and their Allies in the First World War and the early stages of the Greco-Turkish War of 1919–1922.\n\nAlexander controversially married the commoner Aspasia Manos in 1919, provoking a major scandal that forced the couple to leave Greece for several months. Soon after returning to Greece with his wife, Alexander was bitten by a domestic Barbary macaque and died of sepsis. The sudden death of the sovereign led to questions over the monarchy's survival and contributed to the fall of the Venizelist regime. After a general election and a referendum, Constantine I was restored to the throne.\n\nAlexander was born at Tatoi Palace on 1 August 1893 (20 July in the Julian calendar), the second son of Crown Prince Constantine of Greece of the House of Glücksburg and his wife Princess Sophia of Prussia. He was related to royalty throughout Europe. His father was the eldest son and heir apparent of King George I of Greece by his wife Grand Duchess Olga Constantinovna of Russia; his mother was the daughter of Emperor Frederick III of Germany and his wife Victoria, Princess Royal of the United Kingdom. Constantine was a grandson of King Christian IX of Denmark and a cousin of both King George V of the United Kingdom and Emperor Nicholas II of Russia. Sophia was the sister of Emperor Wilhelm II of Germany, and was also a cousin of King George V through her grandmother, Queen Victoria.\n\nAlexander's early life alternated between the Royal Palace in Athens, and Tatoi Palace in the city's suburbs. With his parents he undertook several trips abroad and regularly visited Schloss Friedrichshof, the home of his maternal grandmother, who had a particular affection for her Greek grandson.\n\nThough he was very close to his younger sister, Princess Helen, Alexander was less warm towards his elder brother George, with whom he had little in common. While his elder brother was a serious and thoughtful child, Alexander was mischievous and extroverted; he smoked cigarettes made from blotting paper, set fire to the games room in the palace, and recklessly lost control of a toy cart in which he and his younger brother Paul were rolling down a hill, tipping his toddler brother a distance of six feet into brambles.\n\nAs his father's second son, Alexander was third in line to the throne, after his father and elder brother, George. His education was expensive and carefully planned, but while George spent part of his military training in Germany, Alexander was educated in Greece. He joined the prestigious Hellenic Military Academy, where several of his uncles had previously studied and where he made himself known more for his mechanical skills than for his intellectual capacity. He was passionate about cars and motors, and was one of the first Greeks to acquire an automobile.\n\nHe distinguished himself in combat during the Balkan Wars of 1912–13. As a young officer, he was stationed, along with his elder brother, in the field staff of his father; and he accompanied the latter at the head of the Army of Thessaly during the capture of Thessaloniki in 1912. King George I was assassinated in Thessaloniki soon afterwards, and Alexander's father ascended the throne as Constantine I.\n\nIn 1915, at a party held in Athens by court marshal Theodore Ypsilantis, Alexander became re-acquainted with one of his childhood friends, Aspasia Manos. She had just returned from education in France and Switzerland, and was reckoned as very beautiful by her acquaintances. She was the daughter of Constantine's Master of the Horse, Colonel Petros Manos, and his wife Maria Argyropoulos. The 21-year-old Alexander was smitten, and was so determined to seduce her that he followed her to the island of Spetses where she holidayed that year. Initially, Aspasia was resistant to his charm; although considered very handsome by his contemporaries, Alexander had a reputation as a ladies' man from numerous past liaisons. Despite this, he finally won her over, and the couple were engaged in secret. However, for King Constantine I, Queen Sophia and much of European society of the time, it was inconceivable for a royal prince to marry someone of a different social rank.\n\nDuring World War I, Constantine I followed a formal policy of neutrality, yet he was openly benevolent towards Germany, which was fighting alongside Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria and the Ottoman Empire against the Triple Entente of Russia, France and Britain. Constantine was the brother-in-law of Kaiser Wilhelm II, and had also become something of a Germanophile following his military training in Prussia. His pro-German attitude provoked a split between the monarch and the prime minister, Eleftherios Venizelos, who wanted to support the Entente in the hope of expanding Greek territory to incorporate the Greek minorities in the Ottoman Empire and the Balkans. Protected by the countries of the Entente, particularly France, in 1916 Venizelos formed a parallel government to that of the king.\n\nParts of Greece were occupied by the Allied Entente forces, but Constantine I refused to modify his policy and faced increasingly open opposition from the Entente and the Venizelists. In July 1916, an arson attack ravaged Tatoi Palace and the royal family barely escaped the flames; Alexander was not injured but his mother narrowly saved Princess Katherine by carrying her through the woods for more than two kilometers. Among the palace personnel and firefighters who arrived to deal with the blaze, sixteen people were killed.\n\nFinally on 10 June 1917, Charles Jonnart, the Entente's High Commissioner in Greece, ordered King Constantine to give up his power. On the threat of Entente forces landing in Piraeus, the king conceded and agreed to go into self-exile, though without officially abdicating his crown. The Allies, while determined to be rid of Constantine, did not wish to create a Greek republic, and sought to replace the king with another member of the royal family. Crown Prince George, who was the natural heir, was ruled out by the Allies because they thought him too pro-German, like his father. Instead, they considered installing Constantine's brother (and Alexander's uncle), Prince George, but he had tired of public life during his difficult tenure as High Commissioner of Crete between 1901 and 1905; above all, he sought to remain loyal to his brother, and categorically refused to take the throne. As a result, Constantine's second son, Prince Alexander, was chosen to become the new monarch.\n\nThe dismissal of Constantine was not unanimously supported by the Entente powers; while France and Britain did nothing to stop Jonnart's actions, the Russian provisional government officially protested to Paris. Petrograd demanded that Alexander should not receive the title of king but only that of regent so as to preserve the rights of the deposed sovereign and the Crown Prince. Russia's protests were brushed aside, and Alexander ascended the Greek throne.\n\nAlexander swore the oath of loyalty to the Greek constitution on the afternoon of 11 June 1917 in the ballroom of the Royal Palace. Apart from the Archbishop of Athens, Theocletus I, who administered the oath, only King Constantine I, Crown Prince George and the king's prime minister, Alexandros Zaimis, attended. There were no festivities. The 23-year-old Alexander had a broken voice and tears in his eyes as he made the solemn declaration. He knew that the Entente and the Venizelists would hold real power and that neither his father nor his brother had renounced their claims to the throne. Constantine had informed his son that he should consider himself a regent, rather than a true monarch.\n\nIn the evening, after the ceremony, the royal family decided to leave their palace in Athens for Tatoi, but city residents opposed the exile of their sovereign and crowds formed outside the palace to prevent Constantine and his family from leaving. On 12 June, the former king and his family escaped undetected from their residence by feigning departure from one gate while exiting through another. At Tatoi, Constantine again impressed upon Alexander that he held the crown in trust only. It was the last time that Alexander would be in direct contact with his family. The next day, Constantine, Sophia and all of their children except Alexander arrived at the small port of Oropos and set off into exile.\n\nWith his parents and siblings in exile, Alexander found himself isolated. The royals remained unpopular with the Venizelists, and Entente representatives advised the king's aunts and uncles, particularly Prince Nicholas, to leave. Eventually, they all followed Constantine into exile. Royal household staff were gradually replaced by enemies of the former king, and Alexander's allies were either imprisoned or distanced from him. Portraits of the royal family were removed from public buildings, and Alexander's new ministers openly called him the \"son of a traitor\".\n\nOn 26 June 1917, the king was forced to name Eleftherios Venizelos as head of the government. Despite promises given by the Entente on Constantine's departure, the previous prime minister, Zaimis, was effectively forced to resign as Venizelos returned to Athens. Alexander immediately opposed his new prime minister's views and, annoyed by the king's rebuffs, Venizelos threatened to remove him and set up a regency council in the name of Alexander's brother Prince Paul, then still a minor. The Entente powers intervened and asked Venizelos to back down, allowing Alexander to retain the crown. Spied on day and night by the prime minister's supporters, the monarch quickly became a prisoner in his own palace, and his orders went ignored.\n\nAlexander had no experience in affairs of state. However, he was determined to make the best of a difficult situation and represent his father as best he could. Adopting an air of cool indifference to the government, he rarely made the effort to read official documents before he rubber-stamped them. His functions were limited, and amounted to visiting the Macedonian front to support the morale of the Greek and Allied troops. Since Venizelos's return to power, Athens was at war with the Central Powers, and Greek soldiers battled those of Bulgaria in the north.\n\nBy the end of World War I, Greece had grown beyond its 1914 borders, and the treaties of Neuilly (1919) and Sèvres (1920) confirmed the Greek territorial conquests. The majority of Thrace (previously split between Bulgaria and Turkey) and several Aegean Islands (such as Imbros and Tenedos) became part of Greece, and the region of Smyrna, in Ionia, was placed under Greek mandate. Alexander's kingdom increased in size by around a third. In Paris, Venizelos took part in the peace negotiations with the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria. Upon his return to Greece in August 1920, Venizelos received a laurel crown from the king for his work in support of panhellenism. \n\nDespite their territorial gains following the Paris Peace Conference, the Greeks still hoped to achieve the \"Megali Idea\" and annex Constantinople and larger areas of Ottoman Asia Minor; they invaded Anatolia beyond Smyrna and sought to take Ankara, with the aim of destroying the Turkish resistance led by Mustafa Kemal (later known as Atatürk). Thus began the Greco-Turkish War (1919–1922). Although Alexander's reign saw success after success for the Greek armies, it was eventually Atatürk's revolutionary forces that obtained victory in 1922.\n\nOn 12 June 1917, the day after his accession, Alexander revealed his liaison with Aspasia Manos to his father and asked for his permission to marry her. Constantine was reluctant to let his son marry a non-royal, and demanded that Alexander wait until the end of the war before considering the engagement, to which Alexander agreed. In the intervening months, Alexander increasingly resented his separation from his family. His regular letters to his parents were intercepted by the government and confiscated. Alexander's only source of comfort was Aspasia, and he took the decision to marry her despite his father's request.\n\nThe ruling dynasty of Greece (the House of Glücksburg) was of German-Danish origin, and Constantine and Sophia were seen as far too German by the Venizelists, but even though the marriage of the king to a Greek presented an opportunity to Hellenize the royal family, and counter criticisms that it was a foreign institution, both Venizelists and Constantinists opposed the match. The Venizelists feared it would give Alexander a means to communicate with his exiled family through Colonel Manos and both sides of the political divide were unhappy at the king marrying a commoner. Although Venizelos was a friend of Petros Manos, the prime minister warned the king that marrying her would be unpopular in the eyes of the people.\n\nWhen Prince Arthur, Duke of Connaught and Strathearn, visited Athens in March 1918, to confer the Order of the Bath upon the king, Alexander feared that a marriage between him and Princess Mary of the United Kingdom would be discussed as part of an attempt to consolidate the relationship between Greece and Britain. To Alexander's relief, Arthur asked to meet Aspasia, and declared that, if he were younger, he would have sought to marry her himself. For the foreign powers, and particularly the British ambassador, the marriage was seen as positive. The British authorities feared that Alexander would abdicate in order to marry Aspasia if the wedding was blocked, and they wanted to avoid Greece becoming a republic in case it led to instability or an increase in French influence at their expense.\n\nAlexander's parents were not so happy about the match. Sophia disapproved of her son marrying a commoner, while Constantine wanted a delay but was prepared to be his son's best man if Alexander would be patient. Alexander visited Paris at the end of 1918, raising hopes among his family that they would be able to contact him once he was outside Greece. When Queen Sophia attempted to telephone her son in his Parisian hotel, a minister intercepted the call and informed her that \"His Majesty is sorry, but he cannot respond to the telephone\". He was not even informed that she had called.\n\nWith the help of Aspasia's brother-in-law, Christo Zalocostas, and after three unsuccessful attempts, the couple eventually married in secret before a royal chaplain, Archimandrite Zacharistas, on the evening of 17 November 1919. After the ceremony, the archimandrite was sworn to silence but soon broke his promise by confessing to the Archbishop of Athens, Meletios Metaxakis. According to the Greek constitution, members of the royal family had to obtain permission to marry from both the sovereign and the head of the Greek Orthodox Church. By marrying Aspasia without the permission of the Archbishop, Alexander caused a major scandal.\n\nDespite his disapproval of the union, Venizelos allowed Aspasia and her mother to move into the Royal Palace on condition that the marriage remain secret. The information leaked, however, and to escape public opprobrium Aspasia was forced to leave Greece. She fled to Rome, and then to Paris, where Alexander was allowed to join her, six months later, on condition that they did not attend official functions together. On their Parisian honeymoon, while motoring near Fontainebleau, the couple witnessed a serious car crash in which Count Kergariou's chauffeur lost control of his master's vehicle. Alexander avoided the count's car, which swerved and hit a tree. The king drove the injured to hospital in his own car, while Aspasia, who had trained as a nurse during World War I, rendered first aid. The count was seriously injured and died shortly afterward, after having both legs amputated.\n\nThe government allowed the couple to return to Greece in mid-1920. Although their marriage was legalized, Aspasia was not recognized as queen, but was instead known as \"Madame Manos\". At first, she stayed at her sister's house in the Greek capital before transferring to Tatoi, and it was during this period that she became pregnant with Alexander's child.\n\nAlexander visited the newly acquired territories of West Thrace, and on 8 July 1920 the new name for the region's main town—Alexandroupoli (meaning \"city of Alexander\" in Greek)—was announced in the king's presence. The city's previous name of Dedeagatch was considered too Turkish. On 7 September, Venizelos, counting on a surge of support in the wake of the signing of the Treaty of Sèvres and the expansion of Greek territory, announced a general election for early November.\n\nOn 2 October 1920, Alexander was injured while walking through the grounds of the Tatoi estate. A domestic Barbary macaque belonging to the steward of the palace's grapevines attacked or was attacked by the king's German Shepherd Dog, Fritz, and Alexander attempted to separate the two animals. As he did so, another monkey attacked Alexander and bit him deeply on the leg and torso. Eventually servants arrived and chased away the monkeys, and the king's wounds were promptly cleaned and dressed but not cauterized. He did not consider the incident serious and asked that it not be publicized.\n\nThat evening, his wounds became infected; he suffered a strong fever and septicemia set in. His doctors considered amputating his leg, but none wished to take responsibility for so drastic an act. On 19 October, he became delirious and called out for his mother, but the Greek government refused to allow her to re-enter the country from exile in Switzerland, despite her own protestations. Finally, the queen dowager, Olga, George I's widow and Alexander's grandmother, was allowed to return alone to Athens to tend to the king. She was delayed by rough waters, however, and by the time she arrived, Alexander had already died of sepsis twelve hours previously at a little after 4 p.m. on 25 October 1920. The other members of the royal family received the news by telegram that night.\n\nTwo days later, Alexander's body was conveyed to Athens Cathedral, where it lay in state until his funeral on 29 October. Once again, the royal family were refused permission to return to Greece, and Queen Olga was the only member who attended. Foreign powers were represented by the Prince Regent of Serbia with his sister Princess Helen wife of John Constantinovich of Russia, the Crown Prince of Sweden with his uncle Prince Eugene, Duke of Nericia, and Rear-Admirals Sir George Hope of Britain and Dumesnil of France, as well as members of the Athens diplomatic corps.\n\nAfter the cathedral service, Alexander's body was interred on the grounds of the royal estate at Tatoi. The Greek royal family never regarded Alexander's reign as fully legitimate. In the royal cemetery, while other monarchs are given the inscription \"King of the Hellenes, Prince of Denmark\", Alexander's reads \"Alexander, son of the King of the Hellenes, Prince of Denmark. He ruled in the place of his father from 14 June 1917 to 25 October 1920.\" According to Alexander's favorite sister, Queen Helen of Romania, this feeling of illegitimacy was also shared by Alexander himself, a sentiment that helps explain his mésalliance with Aspasia Manos.\n\nAlexander's death raised questions about the succession to the throne as well as the nature of the Greek regime. As the king had contracted an unequal marriage, his descendants were not in the line of succession. The Hellenic Parliament demanded that Constantine I and Crown Prince George be excluded from the succession but sought to preserve the monarchy by selecting another member of the royal house as the new sovereign. On 29 October 1920, the Greek minister in Berne, acting under the direction of the Greek authorities, offered the throne to Alexander's younger brother, Prince Paul. Paul, however, refused to become king while his father and elder brother were alive, insisting that neither of them had renounced their rights to the throne and that he therefore could never legitimately wear the crown.\n\nThe throne remained vacant and the legislative elections of 1920 turned into an open conflict between the Venizelists, who favored republicanism, and the supporters of the ex-King Constantine. On 14 November 1920, with the war with Turkey dragging on, the monarchists won, and Dimitrios Rallis became prime minister; Venizelos (who lost his own parliamentary seat) chose to leave Greece in self-exile. Rallis asked Queen Olga to become regent until Constantine's return.\n\nUnder the restored King Constantine I, whose return was endorsed overwhelmingly in a referendum, Greece went on to lose the Greco–Turkish War with heavy military and civilian casualties. The territory gained on the Turkish mainland during Alexander's reign was lost. Alexander's death in the midst of an election campaign helped destabilize the Venizelos regime, and the resultant loss of Allied support contributed to the failure of Greece's territorial ambitions. Winston Churchill wrote, \"it is perhaps no exaggeration to remark that a quarter of a million persons died of this monkey's bite.\"\n\nAlexander's daughter by Aspasia Manos, Alexandra (1921–1993), was born five months after his death. Initially, the government took the line that since Alexander had married Aspasia without the permission of his father or the church, his marriage was illegal and his posthumous daughter was illegitimate. However, in July 1922, Parliament passed a law which allowed the King to recognize royal marriages retroactively on a non-dynastic basis. That September, Constantine—at Sophia's insistence—recognized his son's marriage to Aspasia and granted her the style of \"Princess Alexander\". Her daughter (Constantine I's granddaughter) was legitimized as a princess of Greece and Denmark, and later married King Peter II of Yugoslavia in London in 1944. They had one child: Alexander, Crown Prince of Yugoslavia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32772868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32772868", "title": "Allegory of the long spoons", "text": "Allegory of the long spoons\n\nThe allegory of the long spoons is a parable that shows the difference between heaven and hell by means of people forced to eat with long spoons. It is attributed to Rabbi Haim of Romshishok, as well as other sources.\n\nIn hell the people are unable to lift food to their mouths using such unwieldy cutlery, and are starving. In heaven, the diners feed one another across the table and are sated. The story can encourage people to be kind to each other. There are various interpretations of the fable including its use in sermons and in advice to lonely people.\n\nThe story suggests that people have the opportunity to use what they are given (the long spoons in this allegory) to help nourish each other, but the problem, as Haim points out, lies in how the people treat each other.\n\nGiven the same level playing field one group of people who treat each other well will create a pleasant environment. Whereas another group of people, given exactly the same tools to work with, can create unpleasant conditions simply by how they treat each other. Writer Dawn Eden suggests that this is a simple truth which can be easily forgotten by lonely people unable to see their situation clearly. She argues that such situations can be improved by reaching out to others.\n\nThe long spoons allegory has become part of the folklore of several cultures, for example: Jewish, Hindu, Buddhist, Oriental and Christian. In medieval Europe, the food in the story is a bowl of stew; in China, it is a bowl of rice being eaten with long chopsticks.\n\nIn some versions of the story the diners are using regular cutlery but are unable to bend their arms, with a story attributed to Rabbi Haim of Romshishok describing how \"both arms were splinted with wooden slats so he could not bend either elbow to bring the food to his mouth\".\n\nDuring conflict resolution in non-Western cultures communicating difficult truths is better through a third party who can make suggestions through such stories.\n\nWhile the parable itself is seldom depicted in art, it is well known and used in sermons when referring to hell, where the fashion for depicting hell in terrible, painful, gruesome terms is fading in recent times.\n\nThe parable is told by Norman McCay in the novelization of \"Kingdom Come\". In the 2011 Boardwalk Empire episode, \"Under God's Power She Flourishes\", Father Brennan tells Margaret the Allegory of the Long Spoons while Emily is fitted for leg braces. A scene in the 2013 thriller \"The East\" draws strong comparisons to the allegory when protagonist Sarah is depicted as selfish for neglecting to feed her adjacent diner, whilst in a straitjacket. It is also retold in Barbara Kingsolver's novel, \"The Bean Trees\".\n\nIn Scotland, it is often said \"It taks a lang spoon tae sup wi a Fifer\".\n\nCaritas made an animation video based on this allegory for their campaign \"One human family, food for all\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12028764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12028764", "title": "Anamorphosis (biology)", "text": "Anamorphosis (biology)\n\nAnamorphosis or Anamorphogenesis refers to postembryonic development and moulting in Arthropoda that results in the addition of abdominal body segments, even after sexual maturity. An example of this occurs in proturans and millipedes.\n\nAnamorphosis has been depicted various times throughout early modern literature\n"}
{"id": "10583311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10583311", "title": "Ancillary administration", "text": "Ancillary administration\n\nAncillary administration is \"the administration of a decedent's estate in a state other than the one in which she lived, for the purpose of disposing of property she owned there.\" Another definition is the \"administration of an estate's asset's in another state.\" This is often a necessary procedure in probate, because the decedent may own property in a state other than his domicile, which is subject to the law of the state in which it sits.\n\nAn ancillary administrator is the personal representative who handles the property in the other state under ancillary administration. Most major court systems will have forms and checklists for ancillary administrators to use.\n\n"}
{"id": "42573569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42573569", "title": "Anti-Communist League of the Caribbean", "text": "Anti-Communist League of the Caribbean\n\nThe Anti-Communist League of the Caribbean (, LAC), also known as the Anti-Communist Legion of the Caribbean, was an anti-Castroist right-wing group based in the Dominican Republic funded by the dictators Rafael Trujillo of the Dominican Republic, Anastasio Somoza of Nicaragua and former Cuban Secret Police Chief Orlando Piedra. The purpose of the group was to overthrow the government of Fidel Castro in Cuba. The group eventually became part of the World Anti-Communist League in 1967.\n\nThe group was made up of Spaniards, Cubans, Croatians, Germans, Greeks and right-wing mercenaries trained in the Dominican Republic. The group staged a failed attempt to overthrow Castro in 1959.\n\nThe headquarters of the Anti-Communist League was at one time located at Guy Banister's New Orleans office. The same location appeared on Fair Play for Cuba Committee leaflets distributed by Lee Harvey Oswald and such references to the league are often made in texts concerning conspiracy theories relating to Kennedy assassination.\n"}
{"id": "1021894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1021894", "title": "Antonio Tarver", "text": "Antonio Tarver\n\nAntonio Deon Tarver (born November 21, 1968) is an American professional boxer and boxing commentator. He is a multiple-time light heavyweight world champion, having held the WBA (Super), WBC, IBF, and \"The Ring\" magazine titles, as well the IBO light heavyweight and cruiserweight titles.\n\nAs an amateur, Tarver represented the United States at the 1996 Olympics, winning a bronze medal in the light heavyweight division; he eventually lost to Vassiliy Jirov from Kazakhstan, whom he had previously defeated at the 1995 World Championships to win gold. Tarver also triumphed at the 1995 Pan American Games and 1995 U.S. National Championships, winning gold in both. He remains the only boxer in history to have won gold at the Pan Am Games, World Championships and U.S. Nationals all in the same year.\n\nOutside of boxing, Tarver starred as Mason \"The Line\" Dixon, the heavyweight champion in the 2006 film \"Rocky Balboa\".\n\n\nTarver made his professional debut at the age of 28 on February 18, 1997, with a second-round knockout of Joaquin Garcia at the legendary \"Blue Horizon\" in Philadelphia.\n\nTarver won his first 16 fights,14 by knockout, before stepping up his level of competition. After taking most of his first 16 fights in either his native Florida or at the \"Blue Horizon\", for his 11th fight he met veteran Rocky Gannon in Chester, West Virginia, on August 30, 1998. Tarver knocked out Gannon in the second round.\n\nOn February 29, 2000, Tarver scored a knockout against Ernest M-16 Mateen in Las Vegas. Later that year, Tarver suffered his first loss when he was knocked down in the 11th round by Eric Harding, en route to a unanimous decision on June 23 in Biloxi, Mississippi. This was an IBF title elimination bout, where the winner would face Roy Jones Jr.\n\nIn 2002, Tarver defeated former two-weight world champion Reggie Johnson by split decision to win the NABF & USBA light-heavyweight titles, and a guaranteed title shot at Roy Jones. He then scored a fifth round stoppage over Harding in a rematch that was on the undercard of the rematch between Shane Mosely and Vernon Forrest. Tarver was trailing on the scorecards until the 4th round, when he sent Harding to the canvas with a barrage of unanswered power shots; Harding was also floored twice in the 5th round, leading to the stoppage.\n\nOn April 26, 2003, Tarver received his first world title shot, when he faced former WBC champion Montel Griffin for the WBC & IBF light-heavyweight titles that had been vacated by Roy Jones Jr., who had gone on to defeat John Ruiz for the WBA heavyweight title the previous month. After dropping Griffin in the first and last rounds, Tarver was crowned champion after winning a unanimous decision.\n\nNext, rather than remain at heavyweight, Jones planned to return to light-heavyweight and regain his belts. Given little chance of winning, Tarver took a weight-drained Jones the distance and lost the fight and WBC title by a majority decision on November 8, 2003, in Las Vegas (Tarver had relinquished the IBF title a few days earlier in anticipation of being unable to make a mandatory defense.)\n\nIn a rematch on May 15, 2004 in Las Vegas, Tarver upset the odds to regain the WBC title and win the \"WBA Super\" title by knocking Jones out in the second round. In fifty previous fights, Jones had only been sent to the floor once, leaving most observers shocked at the result.\n\nTarver became a mainstream celebrity after his rematch win over Jones, making appearances at late-night shows, appearing on the cover of both Ring and KO Magazine, being spotted by television cameras as a spectator at various boxing fights, and co-hosting ESPN's \"Friday Night Fights\" for one telecast.\n\nLater in 2004, the WBC decided to strip Tarver of the world title after he decided against fighting their mandatory challenger, instead choosing to fight IBF title holder Glen Johnson December 18 in Temecula, California; Tarver had already been removed as Super Champion by the WBA in their July rankings. Johnson himself had been stripped of his IBF title before the bout with Tarver for not fighting his mandatory challenger. Both fighters were celebrated for their decision to fight each other rather than bow to the pressure from what has become known as \"The Alphabet Soup\" sanctioning bodies (WBC, WBA, WBO, and IBF).\n\nTarver, considered a favorite to win the fight, suffered an upset loss to Johnson by way of a split decision in a fight that he did not appear to be in top shape for. Tarver avenged the loss six months later with a unanimous decision, out-boxing and out-working the aggressive Johnson at the FedEx Forum in Memphis, Tennessee to regain The Ring championship.\n\nIn their third fight, Tarver won a unanimous decision over Roy Jones Jr. on October 1, 2005 in Tampa, Florida, almost knocking Jones down in the 11th round but also finding himself in trouble at times during the fight.\n\nOn June 10, 2006, Tarver faced former undisputed world middleweight champion Bernard Hopkins for Tarver's \"The Ring\" title at The Boardwalk Hall in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Hopkins, a 3-to-1 underdog, dominated the fight, outboxing Tarver to win a unanimous decision. The fight was scored 118–109 by all three judges. Tarver was knocked down in the 5th round. As a result of a clause in the fight contract, Tarver was forced to pay $250,000 to a charity of Hopkins' choice since he did not knock Hopkins out before the fifth round. Tarver's record would now stand at 24 wins and 4 losses, with 18 wins coming by way of knockout.\n\nTarver returned to the ring nearly one year after his loss to Hopkins, defeating Albanian-fighter Elvir Muriqi on June 9, 2007 by way of a majority decision. In his next fight, held at Foxwoods Resort Casino on December 1, 2007, Tarver registered a win over Danny Santiago by way of a 4th round TKO.\n\nTarver then regained the IBF title by outpointing Clinton Woods.\n\nOn October 11, 2008, Tarver faced rising star Chad Dawson for Tarver's IBF title. The fight took place at Palms Casino in Las Vegas. Tarver lost the fight via unanimous decision, with wide margins of 118–109 and 117–110 (twice). The outcome was not disputed.\n\nWith the loss to Dawson, it was speculated that Tarver may choose to retire; however, he later announced that he and Dawson would meet in a rematch in March 2009.\n\nA rematch with Dawson, originally announced for March 14, 2009, had to be postponed due to an injury suffered by Dawson. Finally, on May 9, the two fighters met at the Hard Rock Hotel and Casino, Las Vegas. Tarver, who came to the fight as a 5:1 underdog, again lost by unanimous decision.\n\nFollowing the rematch loss to Dawson, Tarver took over a year off from the ring, before returning on 15 October 2010 to defeat Nagy Aguilera by 10 round unanimous decision in a bout that took place in the heavyweight division. For this fight Tarver officially weighed 221 lbs, some 46 lbs more than he had weighed for the Dawson rematch.\n\nOn 20 July 2011, Tarver took on Australian IBO cruiserweight champion Danny Green at the Sydney Entertainment Centre, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, in Tarver's debut in the 200 lb cruiserweight division.\n\nTarver dominated the fight, knocking Green down in the second round and controlling the majority of the action from there on in. After taking heavy punishment and being saved by the bell at the end of round 9, Green failed to come out for the start of round 10, allowing Tarver to take the victory and the title by TKO.\n\nTarver reportedly tested positive for a banned anabolic steroid in his pre-fight urine sample prior to his fight with Kayode, with the tests' results only released publicly after the fight.\n\nTarver tested positive for a banned substance yet again in his pre-fight urine samples coming into the Cunningham bout, with the tests once again being released after the fight.\n\nTarver starred as heavyweight champion Mason \"The Line\" Dixon in the 2006 film \"Rocky Balboa\". In the film the current, unpopular, champion Dixon fights former champion Rocky Balboa, who decides to come out of retirement. Dixon wins the match by split decision, and after breaking his hand in the second round of the bout but still managing to stand toe to toe with Rocky for the full 10 rounds, proves to doubters that he has the heart of a champion. The DVD of the movie offers an alternate ending, in which Rocky wins the split decision. Dixon's record before the fight is 33-0 (30 KO).\nAlso on the DVD, the film's writer and director Sylvester Stallone wanted to cast a real boxer in the role of Dixon, as he thought it would be easier to teach a boxer how to act than to teach an actor how to box convincingly. In an August 18, 2010 interview with Stallone on \"The Howard Stern Show\", the director indicated that Tarver refused to film his scene after the MGM had been rented out and filled with people already incurring high costs. In order to get the filming done, Stallone gave Tarver a cut of his own salary and points on the back end which resulted in Stallone making no money on the film.\n\nAfter his loss to Dawson and up to his failed drug test in June, 2012, Tarver served as a boxing analyst for Showtime Championship Boxing.\n\n"}
{"id": "204432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204432", "title": "Arturo Gatti", "text": "Arturo Gatti\n\nArturo Gatti (April 15, 1972 – July 11, 2009) was an Italian Canadian professional boxer who competed from 1991 to 2007. Nicknamed \"Thunder,\" Gatti was known for his heart and bravery in the ring, and also carried formidable punching power.\n\nA world champion in two weight classes, Gatti held the IBF junior lightweight title from 1995 to 1998, and the WBC super lightweight title from 2004 to 2005. He also participated in \"The Ring\" magazine's Fight of the Year a total of four times (1997, 1998, 2002, and 2003). He announced his retirement on July 14, 2007. On December 10, 2012, Gatti was posthumously inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame, in his first year of eligibility, and becoming the tenth Canadian boxer to be inducted.\n\nGatti was born in Cassino, Italy, and raised in Latium, a region of central western Italy, before moving to Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Gatti eventually relocated to Jersey City, New Jersey as a teenager. He returned to Montreal after retiring from boxing to work in real estate.\n\nHis death in 2009 was mired in controversy, with his wife first being arrested for homicide and then released after an autopsy ruled his death was suicide.\n\nArturo Gatti was a member of the Canadian National team, and was training to represent Canada at the 1992 Summer Games, but at age 19 (in 1991), he decided to turn pro instead. He began boxing professionally on the night of June 10, 1991, with a third round knockout of Jose Gonzalez in Secaucus, New Jersey. He went undefeated for six bouts before losing to King Solomon by split decision in six rounds on November 17, 1992.\n\nHis next fight, on March 24, 1993, was his first fight abroad, where he visited Amsterdam, Netherlands and knocked out Plawen Goutchev in round one.\n\nIn 1994, he beat Leon Bostic, and followed through with a Round 1 knockout over Pete Taliaferro to win the USBA super featherweight title. He retained the title against Richard Salazar and former world champion Jose Sanabria.\n\nOn December 15, 1995, Gatti challenged the IBF super featherweight Champion Tracy Harris Patterson, Floyd Patterson's adoptive son. Gatti became world champion when he narrowly outpointed Patterson (scoring: 116–111, 115–112, 114–113) and signed a multi-fight deal with HBO to fight on HBO Boxing.\n\nHe only had two fights in 1996, once defending his world title. His title defense, at Madison Square Garden against Dominican Wilson Rodriguez was the first of three Gatti fights in a row to be named a candidate for \"Fight of the Year\" by \"Ring Magazine\". Dropped in round two and with his right eye closing fast, Gatti knocked Rodriguez down in round six with a left hook to the body, before finishing him off in round six to retain the title.\n\nIn 1997, he again won a points victory over Patterson, but this time by a larger margin (118–108, 117–109, 116–110). He then scored a technical knockout over former world champion Calvin Grove in the seventh round of a non-title affair. Then came his defense against former world champion Gabriel Ruelas, which was also named \"Fight of the Year\" by \"Ring Magazine\". Rocked by a left uppercut in the fourth, Gatti absorbed more than 15 consecutive punches before being saved by the bell. In the fifth, he connected on a left hook to knock Ruelas out.\n\nAfter that fight, Gatti relinquished the world title, going up in weight to the lightweight division. However, 1998 was a bad year for Gatti, as he lost all three of his fights that year. He lost by a technical knockout in round eight to Angel Manfredy, and then lost a pair of close 10-round decisions to Ivan Robinson, the first by split decision, the second by unanimous. In Gatti-Robinson II, Gatti had a point deducted in the eighth round for low blows. Had the point not been deducted, the fight would have been a draw, as Robinson was only ahead by one point on two scorecards. Gatti-Robinson I was chosen \"Fight of the Year\" by \"Ring Magazine\", thus marking the second year in a row that a Gatti fight was given that award and the third year in a row a Gatti fight was nominated.\n\nHe only had one fight in 1999, knocking out Reyes Munoz in round one.\n\nGatti's first fight of 2000 proved to be controversial. Faced with former world champion Joey Gamache, Gatti won by a knockout in round two. A subsequent lawsuit by Gamache's handlers claimed Gatti had gained 19 pounds since the weigh-in the day before and thus had a large advantage over Gamache. In the wake of the fight, boxing regulators pushed for a new law limiting the amount of weight a competitor can gain between the weigh-in and time of the fight. Gatti was also accused by Gamache's handlers of not having actually made the contracted weight of 141 pounds. After Gatti-Gamache, some boxing commissions started weighing boxers a second time.\n\nGatti also won his two other fights that year, against Eric Jukabuwski and Joe Hutchinson.\n\nIn 2001, Gatti only had one fight, going up in weight to meet welterweight Oscar De La Hoya, who beat him by a technical knockout in five rounds. In 2002, Gatti returned to the light welterweight division and defeated former world champion Terronn Millett by a knockout in round four.\n\nHe then split two ten-round decisions with \"Irish\" Micky Ward, losing their first bout, but winning their second. Gatti-Ward I also earned \"Fight of the Year\" honors by Ring Magazine, and the 9th round was called the Round of the Century by Emanuel Steward.\n\nOn June 7, 2003, he and Ward had a rubber match. Gatti broke his twice-repaired right hand on an uppercut in the fourth, and he dropped his arm. In the sixth, Gatti dominated the round, but got caught with an overhand to the top of the head a second before the bell rang and went down. The final scorecards read, 96–93, 96–93 and 97–92, in favor of Gatti. The third fight between the two was again named \"Fight of the Year\" by \"Ring Magazine\".\n\nGatti vs Ward I & III are also part of HBO's 10 best fights of the decade.\n\nOn January 24, 2004, Gatti, having recovered from a broken hand, scored a tenth round knock-down and defeated Gianluca Branco of Italy by a 12-round unanimous decision to win the vacant WBC light welterweight title.\n\nOn July 24, 2004, he knocked out the previously unbeaten former world champion Leonard Dorin Doroftei in two rounds at Atlantic City, to retain his title.\n\nGatti's second defense of his WBC title came against former WBC super featherweight Champion Jesse James Leija on January 29, 2005. Gatti beat Leija by a fifth-round knockout. That same night, Arturo's protégé, Danny \"Little Mac\" McDermott, won his pro debut.\n\nIn his next fight, Gatti fought former super featherweight and lightweight world champion Floyd Mayweather Jr. on June 25, 2005. He took a horrific beating and Gatti's corner man threw in the towel after he was beaten around the ring, thus ending his title reign via sixth-round technical knockout.\n\nAfter the loss to Mayweather, Gatti moved up to the welterweight division. He beat Thomas Damgaard on January 28, 2006, by an eleventh-round technical knockout to win the vacant IBA welterweight title and become a champion in 3 different weight divisions.\n\nOn July 22, 2006, Gatti lost by a TKO to Carlos Baldomir, vying for the WBC & \"The Ring\" welterweight championship. He then broke off his relationship with Buddy McGirt and had a new trainer in Micky Ward.\n\nGatti attempted a comeback on July 14, 2007, against Alfonso Gomez, only to get TKO'd by Gomez. After the fight, Gatti announced his retirement in the dressing room, reportedly quipping: \"I'm coming back — as a spectator.\"\n\nArturo was an aggressive, all-action fighter, often remembered as a Slugger. Early on in his career, Gatti showed his tremendous punching power as he amassed a large number of first-round knockouts. Although he had the ability to box many opponents (as shown in the second Micky Ward fight) Gatti would often get into brawls when his opponents were able to take the power and fight back. This is why many of his bouts against good opposition were slug-fests.\n\nGatti had incredible heart, and an iron chin, shown in the majority of his major fights. He was able to absorb incredible amounts of punishments by fighters such as Wilson Rodriguez, Gabriel Ruelas, Angel Manfredy, Ivan Robinson, Oscar De La Hoya, Micky Ward, Floyd Mayweather and Carlos Baldomir, none of whom could knock him out cold. In the Rodriguez fight he showed off his recuperative abilities as he was close to being stopped under a barrage of shots and in the next round he stopped his opponent.\n\nOscar De La Hoya, who faced many big punchers from 130 pounds to 160 pounds, says Gatti hit him the hardest out of any fighter.\n\nGatti retired with a record of 40 wins and 9 losses, with 31 wins by knockout. On September 24, 2008, reports had surfaced that Gatti was considering a comeback against Montreal welterweight Antonin Décarie, the Canadian and North American Boxing Organization champion. On December 10, 2012 Arturo Gatti was voted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame.\n\nOn July 11, 2009, Gatti was found dead in a hotel in Ipojuca, Pernambuco, Brazil, where he was on holiday with his Brazilian wife, Amanda Rodrigues, and their 10-month-old son. He was 37 years old. Gatti was to attend his sister's wedding the same day. Gatti's widow was charged with first degree murder after the strap of her bag was found stained with blood. Rodrigues could not explain how she spent more than 10 hours in the hotel room without realising Gatti was dead. Former boxing champion Acelino Freitas, who was a close friend of Gatti, stated Gatti and Rodrigues were having problems and were about to separate. The Brazilian authorities initially ruled Gatti's death a homicide, but after the coroner's autopsy report was released, they declared it was a suicide, and his widow was set free. On July 31, 2009, it was announced that the Canadian government would be seeking more information from the Brazilian authorities on Gatti's death. Gatti's family confirmed that there would be a second autopsy done in Quebec. On August 1, a pathologist hired by the ex-boxing champ's family said Brazilian authorities overlooked bruises on Gatti's body in the initial autopsy. \"There were definite injuries that had not been seen by Brazilian authorities,\" Baden said. Almost a year later, in March 2010, the circumstances concerning Gatti's death remained unclear.\n\nAt the family's request, a Quebec coroner agreed to exhume the body so that two pathologists could conduct a second autopsy. Coroner Jean Brochu said, \"We've been waiting for this for a long time,\" and \"it's going to take a while\" before conclusions can be made, and released to the public. A shortage of staff at the coroner's office was blamed for contributing to the delay of the investigation. Regarding a new toxicology report being prepared, Brochu quipped that it \"may take a century to get the results.\"\n\nThe Quebec coroner's report was released in November 2011. Brochu agreed with prior conclusions that Gatti died a violent death from asphyxia by neck constriction. He also noted that Gatti had carisoprodol, a muscle relaxant, in his system, along with alcohol. An expert toxicologist from Quebec retained by the coroner said the drug can produce withdrawal symptoms, such as anxiety, confusion and psychosis. The coroner also stated that \"obvious presence of post-mortem lividity\" indicated that the body had been suspended for some time before ending up on the floor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4621431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4621431", "title": "August Carl Joseph Corda", "text": "August Carl Joseph Corda\n\nAugust Carl Joseph Corda (1809–1849) was a Czech physician and mycologist. This botanist is denoted by the author abbreviation Corda when citing a botanical name. \n\nCorda was born in Reichenberg (now Liberec), Bohemia on November 15, 1809. Corda's father was a textile seller. Both of Corda's parents died suddenly only a few weeks following his birth, and Corda was raised by his grandmother, attending the Normale School in Reichenberg. Corda's grandmother died in 1819 and Corda was sent to live with an \"unacquainted family\" for two years during which time he did not receive schooling. Two years later, Corda was transferred to the care of an uncle in Prague where he attended the \"Lyceum of New Prague\". As a result of family difficulties, Corda left the Lyceum in 1824 to attend polytechnical school. There, he studied physics under Franz Ignatz Cassian Hallaschka, chemistry under Josef Johann Steinmann, mineralogy under Franz Xaver Zippe, and botany under Ignaz Friedrich Tausch. Corda remained at the Polytechnic only 3 years, long enough to become proficient in chemistry.\n\nAfter leaving the Polytechnic in 1827, Corda took a job in a chemical factory in Prague for a brief time before returning to study surgery at the University of Prague. Shortly thereafter during an outbreak of \"Vibrio cholerae\", Corda served as an assistant surgeon at the General Hospital in Prague. He continued as a cholera doctor in Rokitzan, Reichstadt, Niemes and Zwickau. Late in 1832, dispirited by his seemingly endless struggle against cholera, Corda quit the practice of medicine.\n\nFor six weeks, Corda retreated to Berlin to enjoy the company of his close friend Kurt Sprengel and his many associates in the literati, Alexander von Humboldt, Carl Sigismund Kunth, Johann Horkel and Martin Lichtenstein. Following his return to Reichenberg, Corda was inspired to the study of botany following the receipt of a letter from the Berlin Academy proposing a study of the growth of palms and related plants with a travel grant for a return trip to Berlin. Corda enthusiastically responded by writing \"De incremento stipitis plantarum\" with nearly 100 accompanying illustrations which he completed in 1834 along with a monograph on the \"Anatomy of the Rhyzosperms\". During his return to Prague, Corda collected at the Karlovy Vary Hot Springs where he studied aquatic zooplankton and visited Nees von Esenbeck.\n\nOnce back in Prague, Corda was invited to take up a position of Curator of the Division of Zoology at the Czech National Museum by the museum's founder and president, the influential Kaspar Maria von Sternberg, whom Corda had met during his time at Karlovy Vary and also at a botanical congress in Vratislavia. Corda's primary interest quickly drifted to the mycological collections which became the primary focus of his work. Corda is best known for his monumental 6 volume \"Icones fungorum hucusque cognitorum\", published from 1837–1842 and finally in 1854, and his \"Prachtflora europäischer Schimmelbildungen\" published in 1839. Corda was one of the first mycologists to document the sizes of spores of the fungi he described.\n\nIn 1848, Corda was suspected of political agitation during the Prague Barricades and narrowly escaped assassination. Corda remains well known to mycologists, having described many important fungal genera, including \"Stachybotrys\". He perished at sea in 1849 while returning home from a collecting trip in Texas.\n"}
{"id": "51993532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51993532", "title": "Baba Buddha", "text": "Baba Buddha\n\nBaba Buddha ji (6 October 1506 – 8 September 1631) was a prime figure in early Sikhism. He was one of the earliest disciples of Guru Nanak. He performed the formal coronation ceremonies of 5 Sikh gurus, till Guru Hargobind. It is said that in his childhood, he was blessed with a long life by Guru Nanak, who named him as Buddha (meaning - Old/Aged Man) after he was amused by his mature queries related to spirituality at such at young age. While the English spelling is same, the word Buddha here is different than Gautam Buddha of Buddhism. With Baba Buddha Ji, \"d\" in the word Buddha is pronounced as it is, while with Gautam Buddha, \"d\" is pronounced with tongue touching the teeth (pronounced like \"the\").\n\n"}
{"id": "14231652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14231652", "title": "Bird extinction", "text": "Bird extinction\n\nOut of the approximately 10,400 known bird species, about 1,300 (13%) are classified as threatened with extinction, 9% as near threatened and of the remaining 78% many populations are declining. There is a general consensus among scientists who study these trends that if human impact on the environment continues as it has one-third of all bird species and an even greater proportion of bird populations will be gone by the end of this century.\n\nSince 1500, 150 species of birds have become extinct. Historically, the majority of bird extinctions have occurred on islands, particularly those in the Pacific. These include countries such as New Zealand, Australia, Fiji, and Papua New Guinea.\n\nHuman activity is the greatest cause of bird extinction around the world. The top human causes of bird extinction involve: the increased human population, destruction of habitat (through development for habitation, logging, animal and single-crop agriculture, and invasive plants), bird trafficking, egg collecting, pollution (in fertilizers impacting native plants and diversity, pesticides, herbicides directly impacting them as well as the plant and animal food birds eat, including the food for their food source further down along the food chain), and climate change and global warming. Due to the increase in human population, humans are armed with more compelling destructive technology and invading within a variety of bird species natural habitats.\n\nAs climate change is caused by a variety of activities. The effect that climate change has on bird extinction is immense. Due to the rapid changes in temperature and climate the bio diverse earth can not progress with these factors. Severe weather conditions and long seasons, as well as a chemical atmosphere within their surroundings, makes it difficult for many species of birds to keep up with. In Hawai'i, climate change is responsible for the decline in the population in Hawaiian forest birds and is resulting in an increase of avian malaria (plasmodium relictum). Because the dynamics of malaria are influenced by ambient temperature and participation patterns, the predicted climate changes are expected to increase the occurrence of avian malaria.\n\nSea level rise may flood islands killing the birds and other animals native to islands causing extinction.\n\nEach species of birds carries defense mechanisms like resistances and the ability to fight disease. With the changing climate and atmosphere, many species are losing their ability to fight particular diseases. These bird species are becoming more susceptible to disease, which results to the downfall of extinction. The most common disease affecting birds is Salmonellosis, which originates from the Latin name of salmonella. Infected birds pass bacteria in their fecal droppings. Other birds then become ill when they eat food contaminated by the droppings.\n"}
{"id": "741921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=741921", "title": "Calaveras Big Trees State Park", "text": "Calaveras Big Trees State Park\n\nCalaveras Big Trees State Park is a state park of California, United States, preserving two groves of giant sequoia trees. It is located 4 miles (6.4 km) northeast of Arnold, California in the middle elevations of the Sierra Nevada. It has been a major tourist attraction since 1852, when the existence of the trees was first widely reported, and is considered the longest continuously operated tourist facility in California.\n\nParcels of land that would later become the state park and nearby national park were optioned by lumberman Robert P. Whiteside in January, 1900, with the intention of logging. A protracted battle to preserve the trees was launched by Laura Lyon White and the California Club. Despite legislation in 1900 and 1909 authorizing the federal government to purchase the property, Whiteside refused to sell the land at the offered price, preferring its higher valuation as parkland. It was not until 1931 that Whiteside's family began to divest the property, beginning with the North Grove.\n\nThe area was declared a state park in 1931 and now encompasses in Calaveras and Tuolumne counties.\n\nOver the years other parcels of mixed conifer forests, including the much larger South Calaveras Grove of Giant Sequoias(purchased in 1954 for US $2.8 million, equivalent to US $ in dollars), have been added to the park to bring the total area to over . The North Grove contains about 100 mature giant sequoias; the South Grove, about 1,000. According to Naturalist John Muir the forest protected by the park is: \"A flowering glade in the very heart of the woods, forming a fine center for the student, and a delicious resting place for the weary.\"\n\nThe North Grove includes two sequoias that were cut down or mutilated only to be reassembled in exhibits. The \"Discovery Tree\" was noted by Augustus T. Dowd in 1852 and felled in 1853 leaving a giant stump and a section of trunk showing the holes made by the augers used to fell it. It measured 25 feet in diameter at its base and was determined by ring count to be 1,244 years old when felled. At the time the grove was discovered by white explorers, the Discovery Tree was measured by Dowd and others as the largest tree, and it was cut down to advertise the tourist attraction. The stump was later turned into a dance floor. John Muir wrote an essay titled \"The Vandals Then Danced Upon the Stump!\" to criticize the felling of the tree. A second tree named the Mother of the Forest was stripped of its first 100 feet of bark. Today only a fire-blackened snag remains of the Mother of the Forest, and the Discovery Tree has been renamed the Big Stump; the largest tree in the North Grove today is the Empire State tree, which measures 30 feet at ground level and 23 feet at 6 feet above ground.\n\nIn addition to the popular North Grove, the park also now includes the South Grove, with a hiking trip into a grove of giant sequoias in their natural setting. The South Grove includes the Louis Agassiz tree, tall and more than in diameter above ground, the largest tree in the Calaveras groves. It is named after zoologist Louis Agassiz (1807–1873).\n\nOther attractions in the Park include the Stanislaus River, Beaver Creek, the Lava Bluff Trail, and Bradley Trail.\n\nThe park houses two main campgrounds with a total of 129 campsites, six picnic areas and hundreds of miles of established trails.\n\nThe iconic \"Pioneer Cabin Tree\", also known as \"The Tunnel Tree\", fell in 2017. Measuring in diameter, its exact age and height were not known. In the 1880s, the tree was hollowed out by a private land owner so that tourists could pass through it; the tree was chosen in part because it bore a large forest fire scar. The tree was estimated to be over one thousand years old. Some speculated that the hole bored through it was a causal factor in its demise. It was one of several drive-through trees in northern California.\n\nOther activities include cross-country skiing, evening ranger talks, numerous interpretive programs, environmental educational programs, junior ranger programs, hiking, mountain biking, bird watching and summer school activities for school children. Dogs are welcome in the park on leash in developed areas like picnic sites, campgrounds, roads and fire roads (dirt). Dogs are not allowed on the designated trails, nor in the woods in general.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15360151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15360151", "title": "ChIP-sequencing", "text": "ChIP-sequencing\n\nChIP-sequencing, also known as ChIP-seq, is a method used to analyze protein interactions with DNA. ChIP-seq combines chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) with massively parallel DNA sequencing to identify the binding sites of DNA-associated proteins. It can be used to map global binding sites precisely for any protein of interest. Previously, ChIP-on-chip was the most common technique utilized to study these protein–DNA relations.\n\nChIP-seq is used primarily to determine how transcription factors and other chromatin-associated proteins influence phenotype-affecting mechanisms. Determining how proteins interact with DNA to regulate gene expression is essential for fully understanding many biological processes and disease states. This epigenetic information is complementary to genotype and expression analysis. ChIP-seq technology is currently seen primarily as an alternative to ChIP-chip which requires a hybridization array. This necessarily introduces some bias, as an array is restricted to a fixed number of probes. Sequencing, by contrast, is thought to have less bias, although the sequencing bias of different sequencing technologies is not yet fully understood.\n\nSpecific DNA sites in direct physical interaction with transcription factors and other proteins can be isolated by chromatin immunoprecipitation. ChIP produces a library of target DNA sites bound to a protein of interest \"in vivo\". Massively parallel sequence analyses are used in conjunction with whole-genome sequence databases to analyze the interaction pattern of any protein with DNA, or the pattern of any epigenetic chromatin modifications. This can be applied to the set of ChIP-able proteins and modifications, such as transcription factors, polymerases and transcriptional machinery, structural proteins, protein modifications, and DNA modifications. As an alternative to the dependence on specific antibodies, different methods have been developed to find the superset of all nucleosome-depleted or nucleosome-disrupted active regulatory regions in the genome, like DNase-Seq and FAIRE-Seq.\n\nChIP is a powerful method to selectively enrich for DNA sequences bound by a particular protein in living cells. However, the widespread use of this method has been limited by the lack of a sufficiently robust method to identify all of the enriched DNA sequences. The ChIP process enriches specific crosslinked DNA-protein complexes using an antibody against the protein of interest. For a good description of the ChIP wet lab protocol see ChIP-on-chip. Oligonucleotide adaptors are then added to the small stretches of DNA that were bound to the protein of interest to enable massively parallel sequencing.\n\nAfter size selection, all the resulting ChIP-DNA fragments are sequenced simultaneously using a genome sequencer. A single sequencing run can scan for genome-wide associations with high resolution, meaning that features can be located precisely on the chromosomes. ChIP-chip, by contrast, requires large sets of tiling arrays for lower resolution.\n\nThere are many new sequencing methods used in this sequencing step. Some technologies that analyze the sequences can use cluster amplification of adapter-ligated ChIP DNA fragments on a solid flow cell substrate to create clusters of approximately 1000 clonal copies each. The resulting high density array of template clusters on the flow cell surface is sequenced by a Genome analyzing program. Each template cluster undergoes sequencing-by-synthesis in parallel using novel fluorescently labelled reversible terminator nucleotides. Templates are sequenced base-by-base during each read. Then, the data collection and analysis software aligns sample sequences to a known genomic sequence to identify the ChIP-DNA fragments.\n\nSensitivity of this technology depends on the depth of the sequencing run (i.e. the number of mapped sequence tags), the size of the genome and the distribution of the target factor.\nThe sequencing depth is directly correlated with cost. If abundant binders in large genomes have to be mapped with high sensitivity, costs are high as an enormously high number of sequence tags will be required. This is in contrast to ChIP-chip in which the costs are not correlated with sensitivity.\n\nUnlike microarray-based ChIP methods, the precision of the ChIP-seq assay is not limited by the spacing of predetermined probes. By integrating a large number of short reads, highly precise binding site localization is obtained. Compared to ChIP-chip, ChIP-seq data can be used to locate the binding site within few tens of base pairs of the actual protein binding site. Tag densities at the binding sites are a good indicator of protein–DNA binding affinity, which makes it easier to quantify and compare binding affinities of a protein to different DNA sites.\n\nSTAT1 DNA association: ChIP-seq was used to study STAT1 targets in HeLA S3 cells. The performance of ChIP-seq was then compared to the alternative protein–DNA interaction methods of ChIP-PCR and ChIP-chip.\n\nNucleosome Architecture of Promoters: Using ChIP-seq, it was determined that Yeast genes seem to have a minimal nucleosome-free promoter region of 150bp in which RNA polymerase can initiate transcription.\n\nTranscription factor conservation: ChIP-seq was used to compare conservation of TFs in the forebrain and heart tissue in embryonic mice. The authors identified and validated the heart functionality of transcription enhancers, and determined that transcription enhancers for the heart are less conserved than those for the forebrain during the same developmental stage.\n\nGenome-wide ChIP-seq: ChIP-sequencing was completed on the worm C. elegans to explore genome-wide binding sites of 22 transcription factors. Up to 20% of the annotated candidate genes were assigned to transcription factors. Several transcription factors were assigned to non-coding RNA regions and may be subject to developmental or environmental variables. The functions of some of the transcription factors were also identified. Some of the transcription factors regulate genes that control other transcription factors. These genes are not regulated by other factors. Most transcription factors serve as both targets and regulators of other factors, demonstrating a network of regulation.\n\nInferring regulatory network: ChIP-seq signal of Histone modification were shown to be more correlated with transcription factor motifs at promoters in comparison to RNA level. Hence author proposed that using histone modification ChIP-seq would provide more reliable inference of gene-regulatory networks in comparison to other methods based on expression.\n\nChIP-seq offers an alternative to ChIP-chip. STAT1 experimental ChIP-seq data have a high degree of similarity to results obtained by ChIP-chip for the same type of experiment, with >64% of peaks in shared genomic regions. Because the data are sequence reads, ChIP-seq offers a rapid analysis pipeline (as long as a high-quality genome sequence is available for read mapping, and the genome doesn't have repetitive content that confuses the mapping process) as well as the potential to detect mutations in binding-site sequences, which may directly support any observed changes in protein binding and gene regulation.\n\nAs with many high-throughput sequencing approaches, ChIP-seq generates extremely large data sets, for which appropriate computational analysis methods are required. To predict DNA-binding sites from ChIP-seq read count data, peak calling methods have been developed. The most popular method is MACS which empirically models the shift size of ChIP-Seq tags, and uses it to improve the spatial resolution of predicted binding sites.\n\nAnother relevant computational problem is Differential peak calling, which identifies significant differences in two ChIP-seq signals from distinct biological conditions. Differential peak callers segment two ChIP-seq signals and identify differential peaks using Hidden Markov Models. Examples for two-stage differential peak callers are ChIPDiff and ODIN.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13479645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13479645", "title": "Check weigher", "text": "Check weigher\n\nA checkweigher is an automatic or manual machine for checking the weight of packaged commodities.\nIt is normally found at the offgoing end of a production process and is used to ensure that the weight of a pack of the commodity is within specified limits. Any packs that are outside the tolerance are taken out of line automatically.\n\nA checkweigher can weigh in excess of 500 items per minute (depending on carton size and accuracy requirements).\nCheckweighers can be used with metal detectors and X-ray machines to enable other attributes of the pack to be checked and acted upon accordingly.\n\nAn automatic checkweigher incorporates a series of conveyor belts. These checkweighers are known also as belt weighers, in-motion scales, conveyor scales, dynamic scales, and in-line scales. In filler applications, they are known as check scales. Typically, there are three belts or chain beds:\n\n\nFor high-speed precision scales, a load cell using electromagnetic force restoration (EMFR) is appropriate. This kind of system charges an inductive coil, effectively floating the weigh bed in an electromagnetic field. When the weight is added, the movement of a ferrous material through that coil causes a fluctuation in the coil current proportional to the weight of the object. Other technologies used include strain gauges and vibrating wire load cells.\n\nIt is usual for a built-in computer to take many weight readings from the transducer over the time that the package is on the weigh bed to ensure an accurate weight reading.\n\nCalibration is critical. A lab scale, which usually is in an isolated chamber pressurized with dry nitrogen(pressurized at sea level) can weigh an object within plus or minus 100th of a gram, but ambient air pressure is a factor. This is straightforward when there is no motion, but in motion there is a factor that is not obvious-noise from the motion of a weigh belt, vibration, air-conditioning or refrigeration which can cause drafts. Torque on a load cell causes erratic readings.\n\nA dynamic, in-motion checkweigher takes samples, and analyzes them to form an accurate weight over a given time period. In most cases, there is a trigger from an optical(or ultrasonic) device to signal the passing of a package. Once the trigger fires, there is a delay set to allow the package to move to the \"sweet spot\" (center) of the weigh bed to sample the weight. The weight is sampled for a given duration. If either of these times are wrong, the weight will be wrong. There seems to be no scientific method to predict these timings. Some systems have a \"graphing\" feature to do this, but it is generally more of an empirical method that works best.\n\n\nThere are several tolerance methods:\n\nThere is also a requirement under the European Average Weight System that data collected by checkweighers is archived and is available for inspection. Most modern checkweighers are therefore equipped with communications ports to enable the actual pack weights and derived data to be uploaded to a host computer. This data can also be used for management information enabling processes to be fine-tuned and production performance monitored.\n\nCheckweighers that are equipped with high speed communications such as Ethernet ports are capable of integrating themselves into groups such that a group of production lines that are producing identical products can be considered as one production line for the purposes of weight control. For example, a line that is running with a low average weight can be complemented by another that is running with a high average weight such that the aggregate of the two lines will still comply with rules.\n\nAn alternative is to program the checkweigher to check bands of different weight tolerances. For instance, the total valid weight is 100 grams ±15 grams. This means that the product can weigh 85 g to 115 g. However, if 10,000 packs a day are being produced, and most are 110 g, 100 kg of product is being lost. If it is run closer to 85 g, there may be a high rejection rate.\n\nExample: A checkweigher is programmed to indicate 5 zones with resolution to 1 g:\n\nWith a check weigher programmed as a zone checkweigher, the data collection over the networks, as well as local statistics, can indicate the need to check the settings on the upstream equipment to better control flow into the packaging. In some cases the dynamic scale sends a signal to a filler, for instance, in real-time, controlling the actual flow into a barrel, can, bag, etc. In many cases a checkweigher has a light-tree with different lights to indicate the variation of the zone weight of each product.\n\nThis data can be used to determine if an issue exists with an upstream filling, or packaging, machine. A checkweigher can send a signal to the machine to increase or decrease the amount put into a package. This can result in a payback associated with the checkweigher since producers will be better able to control the amount of give-away. See checkweigher case study outlining ground beef and packaging savings.\n\nSpeed and accuracy that can be achieved by a checkweigher is influenced by the following:\n\nIn-motion scales are dynamic machines that can be designed to perform thousands of tasks. Some are used as simple caseweighers at the end of the conveyor line to ensure the overall finished package product is within its target weight.\n\nAn in motion conveyor checkweigher can be used to detect missing pieces of a kit, such as a cell phone package that is missing the manual, or other collateral. Checkweighers are typically used on the incoming conveyor chain, and the output pre-packaging conveyor chain in a poultry processing plant. The bird is weighed when it comes onto the conveyor, then after processing and washing at the end, the network computer can determine whether or not the bird absorbed too much water, which as it is further processed, will be drained, making the bird under its target weight.\n\nA high speed conveyor scale can be used to change the pacing, or pitch of the products on the line by speeding, or slowing the product speed to change the distance between packs before reaching a different speed going into a conveyor machine that is boxing multiple packs into a box. The \"pitch\" is the measurement of the product as it comes down the conveyor line from leading edge to leading edge.\nA checkweigher can be used to count packs, and the aggregate (total) weight of the boxes going onto a pallet for shipment, including the ability to read each package's weight and cubic dimensions. The controller computer can print a shipping label and a bar-code label to identify the weight, the cubic dimensions, ship-to address, and other data for machine ID through the shipment of the product. A receiving checkweigher for the shipment can read the label with a bar code scanner, and determine if the shipment is as it was before the transportation carrier received it from the shipper's loading dock, and determine if a box is missing, or something was pilfered or broken in transit.\n\nCheckweighers are also used for Quality management. For instance, raw material for machining a bearing is weighed prior to beginning the process, and after the process, the quality inspector expects that a certain amount of metal was removed in the finishing process. The finished bearings are checkweighed, and bearings over- or underweight are rejected for physical inspection. This is a benefit to the inspector, since he can have a high confidence that the ones not rejected are within machining tolerance. A common usage is for throttling plastic extruders such that a bottle used to package detergent meets that requirements of the finished packager.\n\nQuality management can use a checkweigher for Nondestructive testing to verify finished goods using common Evaluation methods to detect pieces missing from a \"finished\" product, such as grease from a bearing, or a missing roller within the housing.\n\nCheckweighers can be built with metal detectors, x-ray machines, open-flap detection, bar-code scanners, holographic scanners, temperature sensors, vision inspectors, timing screws to set the timing and spacing between product, indexing gates and concentrator ducts to line up the product into a designated area on the conveyor. An industrial motion checkweigher can sort products from a fraction of a gram to many, many kilograms. In English units, is this from less than 100th of an ounce to as much as 500 lbs or more. Specialized checkweighers can weigh commercial aircraft, and even find their center-of-gravity. \nCheckweighers can operate at very high speeds, processing products weighing fractions of a gram at over 100m/m (meters per minute) and materials such as pharmaceuticals and 200 lb bags of produce at over 100fpm(feet per minute). They can be designed in many shapes and sizes, hung from ceilings, raised on mezzanines, operated in ovens or in refrigerators. Their conveying medium can be industrial belting, low-static belting, chains similar to bicycle chains(but much smaller), or interlocked chain belts of any width. They can have chain belts made of special materials, different polymers, metals, etc.\n\nCheckweighers are used in cleanrooms, dry atmosphere environments, wet environments, produce barns, food processing, drug processing, etc. Checkweighers are specified by the kind of environment, and the kind of cleaning will be used. Typically, a checkweigher for produce is made of mild steel, and one that will be cleaned with harsh chemicals, such as bleach, will be made with all stainless steel parts, even the Load cells. These machines are labeled \"full washdown\", and must have every part and component specified to survive the washdown environment.\n\nCheckweighers are operated in some applications for extremely long periods of time- 24/7 year round. Generally, conveyor lines are not stopped unless there is maintenance required, or there is an emergency stop, called an E-stop. Checkweighers operating in high density conveyor lines may have numerous special equipments in their design to ensure that if an E-stop occurs, all power going to all motors is removed until the E-stop is cleared and reset.\n\n"}
{"id": "292811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292811", "title": "Frederick Cope", "text": "Frederick Cope\n\nFrederick Cope (July 9, 1860 – September 19, 1897) was the third Mayor of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, serving from 1892 to 1893.\n\nCope was born in Oxford, England in 1860. After moving to Canada, and later British Columbia, he was president of the British Columbia Building Association and operated a dry goods, millinery, tailoring and grocery business.\n\nCope defeated John Thomas Carroll in the 1892 mayoral election, one of the most hotly contested and closest in the city's history, winning with an 11-vote majority. He is the youngest elected mayor in the history of Vancouver, having been aged 32 at the time of his election. During the election, he garnered support of the city's business class, and the \"Vancouver World\" newspaper. His council however would consist of \"reformers\" of the working class, in opposition to Cope's representation of the business class. During his mayoralty, the city experienced an economic downturn; Cope responded by attempting to limit civic expenses, including the laying off of city employees, and initiating cutbacks. He also advocated for the Canada-Australia Steam Line, with the inaugural ship arriving in June 1893.\n\nCope was a Freemason. He drowned during the Klondike Gold Rush in 1897 at Summit Lake, Yukon, when his horse fell while crossing the body of water. He tried unsuccessfully to rescue the horse and was pulled away by the undercurrents. His body was later transported back to Vancouver in the same vessel along with notorious American con artist Soapy Smith which resulted in a mixup of the bodies at their respective funerals. They were later switched upon the realization of the error. He was later buried at Mountain View Cemetery in Vancouver.\n"}
{"id": "55661977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55661977", "title": "Gale R. Williams", "text": "Gale R. Williams\n\nGale R. Williams (August 3, 1922 – November 3, 2007) was an American businessman and politician.\n\nWilliams was born in Ava, Illinois. He went to Trico High School, in Campbell Hill, Illinois, and Southern Illinois University. Williams served in the United States Marine Corps during World War II. He owned a rental apartment and mobile home business in Murphysboro, Illinois. From 1955 to 1960, Williams served as coroner for Jackson County, Illinois. Williams then served in the Illinois House of Representatives from 1961 to 1973. Williams died at St. Louis University Hospital in St. Louis, Missouri.\n"}
{"id": "12740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12740", "title": "Gary Kildall", "text": "Gary Kildall\n\nGary Arlen Kildall (; May 19, 1942 – July 11, 1994) was an American computer scientist and microcomputer entrepreneur who created the CP/M operating system and founded Digital Research, Inc. (DRI). Kildall was one of the first people to see microprocessors as fully capable computers rather than equipment controllers and to organize a company around this concept.\nHe also co-hosted the PBS TV show \"The Computer Chronicles\". Although his career in computing spanned more than two decades, he is mainly remembered in connection with IBM's unsuccessful attempt in 1980 to license CP/M for the IBM PC.\n\nGary Kildall was born and grew up in Seattle, Washington, where his family operated a seafaring school. His father, Joseph Kildall, was a captain of Norwegian heritage. His mother Emma was half-Swedish—Gary's grandmother was born in Långbäck, Sweden, in Skellefteå Municipality but emigrated to Canada at 23 years of age.\n\nGary attended the University of Washington (UW) hoping to become a mathematics teacher, but became increasingly interested in computer technology. After receiving his degree, he fulfilled a draft obligation to the United States Navy by teaching at the Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) in Monterey, California.\nBeing within an hour's drive of Silicon Valley, Kildall heard about the first commercially available microprocessor, the Intel 4004. He bought one of the processors and began writing experimental programs for it. To learn more about the processors, he worked at Intel as a consultant on his days off.\n\nKildall briefly returned to UW and finished his doctorate in computer science in 1972, then resumed teaching at NPS. He published a paper that introduced the theory of data-flow analysis used today in optimizing compilers,\nand he continued to experiment with microcomputers and the emerging technology of floppy disks. Intel lent him systems using the 8008 and 8080 processors, and in 1973, he developed the first high-level programming language for microprocessors, called PL/M. He created CP/M the same year to enable the 8080 to control a floppy drive, combining for the first time all the essential components of a computer at the microcomputer scale. He demonstrated CP/M to Intel, but Intel had little interest and chose to market PL/M instead.\n\nKildall and his wife Dorothy established a company, originally called \"Intergalactic Digital Research\" (later renamed as Digital Research, Inc), to market CP/M through advertisements in hobbyist magazines. Digital Research licensed CP/M for the IMSAI 8080, a popular clone of the Altair 8800. As more manufacturers licensed CP/M, it became a de facto standard and had to support an increasing number of hardware variations. In response, Kildall pioneered the concept of a BIOS, a set of simple programs stored in the computer hardware (ROM or EPROM chip) that enabled CP/M to run on different systems without modification.\n\nCP/M's quick success took Kildall by surprise, and he was slow to update it for high density floppy disks and hard disks. After hardware manufacturers talked about creating a rival operating system, Kildall started a rush project to develop CP/M 2. By 1981, at the peak of its popularity, CP/M ran on 3,000 different computer models and DRI had $5.4 million in yearly revenues.\n\nIBM, presided by John R. Opel, approached Digital Research in 1980, at Bill Gates' suggestion, to negotiate the purchase of a forthcoming version of CP/M called CP/M-86 for the IBM PC. Gary had left negotiations to his wife, Dorothy, as he usually did, while he and colleague and developer of MP/M operating system Tom Rolander used Gary's private airplane to deliver software to manufacturer Bill Godbout.\nBefore the IBM representatives would explain the purpose of their visit, they insisted that Dorothy sign a non-disclosure agreement. On the advice of DRI attorney Gerry Davis, Dorothy refused to sign the agreement without Gary's approval. Gary returned in the afternoon and tried to move the discussion with IBM forward, but accounts disagree on whether he signed the non-disclosure agreement, as well as if he ever met with the IBM representatives.\n\nVarious reasons have been given for the two companies failing to reach an agreement. DRI, which had only a few products, might have been unwilling to sell its main product to IBM for a one-time payment rather than its usual royalty-based plan.\nDorothy might have believed that the company could not deliver CP/M-86 on IBM's proposed schedule, as the company was busy developing an implementation of the PL/I programming language for Data General.\nOr, the IBM representatives might have been annoyed that DRI had spent hours on what they considered a routine formality. According to Kildall, the IBM representatives took the same flight to Florida that night that he and Dorothy took for their vacation, and they negotiated further on the flight, reaching a handshake agreement. IBM lead negotiator Jack Sams insisted that he never met Gary, and one IBM colleague has confirmed that Sams said so at the time. He accepted that someone else in his group might have been on the same flight, but noted that he flew back to Seattle to talk with Microsoft again.\n\nSams related the story to Gates, who had already agreed to provide a BASIC interpreter and several other programs for the PC. Gates' impression of the story was that Gary capriciously \"went flying\", as he would later tell reporters.\nSams left Gates with the task of finding a usable operating system, and a few weeks later he proposed using the operating system 86-DOS—an independently developed operating system that implemented Kildall's CP/M API—from Seattle Computer Products (SCP). Paul Allen negotiated a licensing deal with SCP. Allen had 86-DOS adapted for IBM's hardware, and IBM shipped it as PC DOS.\n\nKildall obtained a copy of PC DOS, examined it, and concluded that it infringed on CP/M. When he asked Gerry Davis what legal options were available, Davis told him that intellectual property law for software was not clear enough to sue.\nInstead Kildall only threatened IBM with legal action, and IBM responded with a proposal to offer CP/M-86 as an option for the PC in return for a release of liability.\nKildall accepted, believing that IBM's new system (like its previous personal computers) would not be a significant commercial success.\nWhen the IBM PC was introduced, IBM sold its operating system as an unbundled option. One of the operating system options was PC DOS, priced at US$40. PC DOS was seen as a practically necessary option; most software titles required it and without it the IBM PC was limited to its built-in Cassette BASIC. CP/M-86 shipped a few months later six times more expensive at $240, but sold poorly against DOS and enjoyed far less software support.\n\nWith the loss of the IBM deal, Gary and Dorothy found themselves under pressure to bring in more experienced management, and Gary's influence over the company waned. He worked in various experimental and research projects, such as a version of CP/M with multitasking (MP/M) and an implementation of the Logo programming language. He hoped that Logo, an educational dialect of LISP, would supplant BASIC in education, but it did not.\nAfter seeing a demonstration of the Apple Lisa, Kildall oversaw the creation of DRI's own graphical user interface, called GEM. Novell acquired DRI in 1991 in a deal that netted millions for Kildall.\n\nKildall also pursued computing-related projects outside DRI. During seven years, from 1983 to 1990 he co-hosted a public television program on the side, called \"Computer Chronicles\", that followed trends in personal computing.\nIn 1984 he started another company, \"Activenture\", which adapted optical disc technology for computer use. In early 1985 it was renamed into \"KnowledgeSet\" and released the first computer encyclopedia in June 1985, a CD-ROM version of Grolier's \"Academic American Encyclopedia\" named \"The Electronic Encyclopedia\", later acquired by Banta. Kildall's final business venture, known as \"Prometheus Light and Sound\" (PLS) and based in Austin, Texas, developed a home PBX system that integrated land-line telephones with mobile phones.\n\nKildall's colleagues recall him as creative, easygoing, and adventurous. In addition to flying, he loved sports cars, auto racing, and boating, and he had a lifelong love of the sea.\n\nAlthough Kildall preferred to leave the IBM affair in the past and to be known for his work before and afterward, he continually faced comparisons between himself and Bill Gates as well as fading memories of his contributions. A legend grew around the fateful IBM-DRI meeting (encouraged by Gates and various journalists), suggesting that Kildall had irresponsibly taken the day off for a recreational flight, and he became tired of constantly having to refute that story. In later years, he had occasional private expressions of bitterness at being overshadowed by Microsoft.\n\nKildall was annoyed when the University of Washington asked him, as a distinguished graduate, to attend their computer science program anniversary in 1992, but gave the keynote speech to Gates, a dropout from Harvard. In response he started writing his memoir, \"Computer Connections\". The memoir, which he distributed only to a few friends, expressed his frustration that people did not seem to value elegance in software, and it said of Gates, \"He is divisive. He is manipulative. He is a user. He has taken much from me and the industry.\" In an appendix he called DOS \"plain and simple theft\" because its first 26 system calls worked the same as CP/M's.\nHe accused IBM of contriving the price difference between PC DOS and CP/M-86 in order to marginalize CP/M. The journalist Harold Evans used the memoir as a source for a chapter about Kildall in the 2004 book \"They Made America\", concluding that Microsoft had robbed Kildall of his inventions. IBM veterans from the PC project disputed the book's description of events, and Microsoft described it as \"one-sided and inaccurate.\"\nIn August 2016, Kildall's family made the first part of his memoir available to the public.\n\nSelling DRI to Novell had made Kildall a wealthy man, and he moved to the West Lake Hills suburb of Austin. His Austin house was a lakeside property, with stalls for several sports cars, plus a video studio in the basement. Kildall owned and flew his own Learjet private jet airplane and had at least one boat on the lake. While in Austin he also participated in volunteer efforts to assist children with HIV/AIDS. He owned a mansion with a panoramic ocean view in Pebble Beach, California, near the headquarters of DRI.\n\nOn July 8, 1994, Kildall fell at a Monterey, California biker bar and hit his head. The exact circumstances of the injury remain unclear. He had been an alcoholic in his later years. Various sources have claimed he fell from a chair, fell down steps, or was assaulted because he walked into the Franklin Street Bar & Grill wearing Harley-Davidson leathers. He checked in and out of the hospital twice, and died three days later at the Community Hospital of the Monterey Peninsula. An autopsy the next day did not conclusively determine a cause of death. A CP/M Usenet FAQ says he was concussed from the fall and died of a heart attack; the connection between the two are unclear.\nHe is buried in Evergreen Washelli Memorial Park in north Seattle.\n\nFollowing the announcement of Kildall's death, Bill Gates commented that he was \"one of the original pioneers of the PC revolution\" and \"a very creative computer scientist who did excellent work. Although we were competitors, I always had tremendous respect for his contributions to the PC industry. His untimely death was very unfortunate and his work will be missed.\"\n\nIn March 1995, Kildall was posthumously honored by the Software Publishers Association (now the Software and Information Industry Association) for his contributions to the microcomputer industry:\n\n\nIn April 2014, the city of Pacific Grove installed a commemorative plaque outside Kildall's former residence, which also served as the early headquarters of Digital Research.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40654788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40654788", "title": "HNLMS K XVII", "text": "HNLMS K XVII\n\nK XVII was one of five s built for the Royal Netherlands Navy. She served during World War II.\n\nHNLMS \"K XVII\" was the last design of J.J. van der Struyff, a submarine designer and engineer of the Royal Netherlands Navy. \"K XVII\" had a similar design as her sister submarines in the , she was fully riveted and her pressure hull was made of thick steel. To increase the submarine's seaworthiness the pressure hull was plated with thick steel. As a consequence \"K XVII\" was 200 tons heavier than submarines in the previous . However, this did allow \"K XVII\" to dive as deep as , while withstanding the enormous water pressure. Between the plating and the pressure hull there was room for the ballast tanks, fuel tanks, anchor, torpedo tubes and more. Furthermore, the submarine was divided into six compartments. The first compartment at the front contained a room with four torpedo launchers which were loaded during wartime, while there were also four reserve torpedoes stored. The room also acted at the same time as sleeping accommodation and caboose for the crew. In the second and third compartment the accus were stored, and also contained the sleeping accommodation for officers. The fourth compartment was the nerve center of \"K XVII\", since this was the place were all control panels, instruments and command tower were located. This tower was made of thick and pressure-resistant steel. The fifth compartment contained the machine chamber and thus the diesel motor. The sixth, and last, compartment was located at the back and had two torpedo launchers and the electric motor. There was also space for two reserve torpedoes. The torpedo tubes of \"K XVII\" had a width of . To enter the submarine, six water resistant shutters were built.\n\nHNLMS \"K XVII\" was laid down in Rotterdam at the shipyard of Wilton-Fijenoord on 1 June 1931 together with her sister ship . The submarine's launch took place on 26 July 1932 and on 19 December 1933 \"K XVII\" was commissioned in the Royal Netherlands Navy. As a K series submarine the purpose of \"K XVII\" was to be active in waters around the Dutch East Indies. However, before she left for the Dutch East Indies she first became part of the Royal Netherlands Navy escadre \"Oostzee\" between 20 June and 1 August 1934. Other ships that were part of this escadre were , , another , namely . As part of the navy escadre \"Oostzee\", the \"K XVII\" made a trip to several ports and harbors connected to the Baltic Sea, such as Gdynia, Königsberg, Riga and Copenhagen.\n\nOn 7 January 1935 \"K XVII\" and her sister , were sent to the Dutch East Indies where they arrived on 26 March 1935 at Padang. During this trip both submarines were under command of LTZ1 J.A. de Gelder and visited several ports, such as Lisbon (14–18 January), Gibraltar (20 January), Naples (25–30 January), Alexandria (5–11 February), Port Said (12 February), Ismaila (12–13 February), Suez (13–15 February), Aden (23–28 February), Colombo (?-18 March) and finally, Padang (26 March). At every port which they visited more than two days meetings were organised and included showing the Dutch national flag as part of promoting the Netherlands. Alongside this 'Holland-promotion', the meetings also involved parties and dinners. The crew meanwhile made certain visits during their visits to the different ports. For example, the crew visited the Pyramid of Cheops while the ship was docked at the port in Alexandria, and also Vatican City was visited by the crew of \"K XVII\" while they were docked at the port in Naples.\n\nOn 4 April 1935 made both \"K XVII\" and \"K XVIII\" made it to their new home port in the Dutch West Indies, namely Surabaya. Here they were added to submarine division I. Later that year, in October 1935, this division took part in a exercises near Surabaya. After the exercises were finished all boats underwent maintenance, which took till 24 February 1936 to complete. Immediately after the maintenance periods were completed on all boats of submarine division I, they were ordered to be part of a navy escadre. The escadre would make a exercise trip to the west part of the Java Sea. The trip would last till mid-March, after which the escadre would change course to the Makassar Strait and spent the remainder of March practicing there. During April, May and June \"K XVII\", as part of submarine division I, went on a exercise trip to the eastern part of the Indian archipelago.\n\nFrom October 1936 till June 1937 the \"K XVII\", and the rest of submarine division I, were once again part of a navy escadre. This time the escadre exercised for 8 months with sea planes. These excersises took place at the Makassar Strait and Java Sea. One year later, in January 1938, submarine division I, which included the submarines \"K XIV\", \"K XIV\", \"K XVI\", \"K XVII\" and \"K XVIII\" were once again added to a navy escadre for exercises. The \"K XVII\" served this time as flag-ship of the submarine division, and was under command of LTZ 1 A. van Karnebeek, while LTZ 1 J.A. de Gelder had command of the whole submarine division I. The exercises were done at the Makassar Strait and Java Sea.\n\nOn 6 September 1938 the \"K XVII\" participated in a fleet show at Surabaya. The show was held in honor of the Dutch Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands who was than 40 years the head of state. More than twenty navy ships of the Royal Netherlands Navy and three ships of the Government Navy participated in the show. \n\nWhen Germany declared war on the Netherlands and also started it's war against other West-European nations, the Dutch navy gave the order for all submarines in the Dutch East Indies to protect the colony against possibly attacks or raids by German or Italian auxiliary cruisers. At the same time, the Dutch navy also observed Japanese activity closely, especially after Japan had signed the Tripartite Pact with Italy and Germany. The \"K XVII\" was during this period mainly tasked with protecting merchant ships against raiders by either taking part in convoys or closely shadowing merchant ships. For example, on 15 September 1940 \"K XVII\" together with \"O 16\" shadowed the steamship \"Lematang\" and the tanker \"Olivia\" on their trip to Durban and Lourenço Marques. They had the order to keep their eyes open for German raiders and attack them if spotted. At the end of September 1940 \"K XVII\" also protected the steamship \"Salando\" of the Rotterdam company \"Lloyd\" when it made its way through the Soenda Strait to reach its destination, Durban.\n\nOn March 1941 \"K XVII\", alongside the submarines \"K IX\" and \"K X\", was sent the Soenda Strait because of the 'Scheer-alarm'. The scheer-alarm meant that the German cruiser \"Admiral Scheer\" had been spotted. The Dutch navy believed, based on their intel, that \"Admiral Scheer\" was planning to enter the Indian Ocean with as goal to sink allied merchant ships and head towards Surabaya. The Dutch navy made therefore preparations to possibly face the \"Admiral Scheer\" and eventually sink the cruiser. The \"K IX\", \"K X\" and \"K XVII\" were ordered to patrol around Sabang. However, the German cruiser did not enter the Indian Ocean and thus the submarines could resume with their normal patrols.\n\nIn June 1941 \"K XVII\" was sent alongside other ships, such as \"K XVIII\" and \"O 16\", to north-west of the Dutch East Indies. There were reports of Japanese warships accompanying merchant ships to Southeast Asia, and the Dutch navy sent her own ships as a precaution to be ready for anything. After this assignment the \"K XVII\" was sent to Surabaya for her half yearly maintenance. At the end of July she was declared fit for service, and was taken back into service.\n\nDuring the war \"K XVII\" patrolled in the South China Sea, off Malaya and in the Gulf of Siam. While exiting the Gulf of Siam in December 1941 she hit a Japanese mine and sunk. The entire crew of thirty-six men perished. Her wreck was located in 1978.\n\nThere are several conspiracy theories involving \"K XVII\" and how the submarine allegedly sighted the Japanese fleet prior to attacking Pearl Harbor.\n\n\nClass K XVII\n"}
{"id": "1488316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1488316", "title": "Hazer Tarkhan", "text": "Hazer Tarkhan\n\nHazer Tarkhan was a general (tarkhan is both a military rank and, in some cases, a personal name) who led a Khazar army of 40,000 men in the failed defense of Atil in 737 CE. He was ambushed and killed by Kawthar, the lieutenant of Marwan ibn Muhammad (later Caliph Marwan II). Following his death the Khazars sued for peace.\n\n"}
{"id": "20556534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20556534", "title": "Henri Aalto", "text": "Henri Aalto\n\nHenri Aalto (born 20 April 1989) is a Finnish football player currently playing for Finnish club FC Honka.\n\n"}
{"id": "4599324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4599324", "title": "Iraq Freedom Congress", "text": "Iraq Freedom Congress\n\nThe Iraq Freedom Congress (or Iraqi Freedom Congress, IFC) is a libertarian socialist, progressive, democratic, and secularist group. The Congress was formed in March 2005 by labor groups, women's groups, students, and neighborhood groups concerned about sectarian violence, Ba'athism, Islamism, and nationalism, as well as the post-war occupation.\n\nThe Congress has been active in protests, most recently regarding post-occupation security and checkpoint policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "43367010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43367010", "title": "Joseph H. Alexander", "text": "Joseph H. Alexander\n\nJoseph H. Alexander (January 24, 1938 – September 28, 2014) was a retired Colonel of the United States Marine Corps and a historian.\n\nJoseph Hammond Alexander obtained master's degrees in history and national defense from North Carolina, Georgetown and Jacksonville Universities. He was also a graduate from the Naval War College.\n\nJoseph Alexander served in the Marine Corps for 29 years. He had been in command of a company during his time in Vietnam and then a battalion in Okinawa. He later served in amphibious ships at sea for five years. By the time he reached the rank of Colonel, he was Chief of Staff to the 3rd Marine Division.\n\nWhen Joseph Alexander retired, he began a new career as a writer. He worked with Lou Reda Productions as chief historian and scriptwriter for their documentaries, which were aired on the History Channel of the Arts and Entertainment Network. He resided in Asheville, North Carolina. He was a member of the board of Habitat for Humanity and volunteers as a home builder. He died aged 76 in Asheville, North Carolina on September 28, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "64659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64659", "title": "Joseph von Fraunhofer", "text": "Joseph von Fraunhofer\n\nJoseph Ritter von Fraunhofer (; ; 6 March 1787 – 7 June 1826) was a Bavarian physicist and optical lens manufacturer. He made optical glass and achromatic telescope objective lenses, invented the spectroscope, and developed diffraction grating. In 1814, he discovered and studied the dark absorption lines in the spectrum of the sun now known as Fraunhofer lines.\n\nThe German research organization Fraunhofer Society is named after him and is Europe's biggest Society for the Advancement of Applied Research.\n\nJoseph Fraunhofer was born in Straubing, in the Electorate of Bavaria, to Franz Xaver Fraunhofer and Maria Anna Frohlich. He was orphaned at the age of 11 and started working as an apprentice to a harsh glassmaker named Philipp Anton Weichelsberger. In 1801, the workshop in which he was working collapsed, and he was buried in the rubble. The rescue operation was led by Prince-Elector Maximilian Joseph. The prince entered Fraunhofer's life, providing him with books and forcing his employer to allow the young Fraunhofer time to study.\n\nJoseph Utzschneider was also at the site of the disaster, and would also become a benefactor to Fraunhofer. With the money given to him by the prince upon his rescue and the support he received from Utzschneider, Fraunhofer was able to continue his education alongside his practical training. In 1806, Utzschneider and Georg von Reichenbach brought Fraunhofer into their Institute at Benediktbeuern, a secularised Benedictine monastery devoted to glassmaking. There he discovered how to make the fine optical glass and invented precise methods for measuring optical dispersion.\n\nIt was at the Institute that Fraunhofer met Pierre Louis Guinand, a Swiss glass technician, who instructed Fraunhofer in glassmaking at Utzschneider's behest. By 1809, the mechanical part of the Optical Institute was chiefly under Fraunhofer's direction, and Fraunhofer became one of the members of the firm that same year. In 1814, Guinand left the firm, as did Reichenbach. Guinad would later became a partner with Fraunhofer in the firm, and the name was changed to Utzschneider-und-Fraunhofer. During 1818, Fraunhofer became the director of the Optical Institute. Due to the fine optical instruments developed by Fraunhofer, Bavaria overtook England as the center of the optics industry. Even the likes of Michael Faraday were unable to produce glass that could rival Fraunhofer.\n\nHis illustrious career eventually earned him an honorary doctorate from the University of Erlangen in 1822. In 1824, Fraunhofer was appointed an Knight of the Order of Merit of the Bavarian Crown by King Maximilian I, through which he was raised into personal nobility (with the title \"Ritter von\", i.e. knight). The same year, he was also made an honorary citizen of Munich.\n\nLike many glassmakers of his era, he was poisoned by heavy metal vapors, resulting in his premature death. Fraunhofer died in 1826 at the age of 39. His most valuable glassmaking recipes are thought to have gone to the grave with him.\n\nOne of the most difficult operations of practical optics during the time period of Fraunhofer's life was accurately polishing the spherical surfaces of large object glasses. Fraunhofer invented the machine which rendered the surface more accurately than traditional grinding. He also invented other grinding and polishing machines and introduced many improvements into the manufacture of the different kinds of glass used for optical instruments, which he always found to be injured by flaws and irregularities of various sorts.\n\nIn 1811, he constructed a new kind of furnace, and during his second melting session when he melted a large quantity of glass, he found that he could produce flint glass, which, when taken from the bottom of a vessel containing roughly 224 pounds of glass, had the same refractive power as glass taken from the surface. He found that the English crown glass and the German table glass both contained defects which tended to cause irregular refraction. In the thicker and larger glasses, there would be even more of such defects, so that in larger telescopes this kind of glass would not be fit for object glasses. Fraunhofer, therefore, made his own crown glass.\n\nIt was thought that the accurate determination of power for a given medium to refract rays of light and separate the different colors which they contain was impeded due to the colors of the spectrum having no precise limits, making it difficult to accurately measure the angle of refraction. To debunk this, Fraunhofer performed a series of experiments for the purpose of producing homogeneous light artificially, and unable to effect his object in a direct way, he did so by means of lamps and prisms.\n\nThus in 1814, Fraunhofer invented the spectroscope. In the course of his experiments, he discovered a bright fixed line which appears in the orange color of the spectrum when it is produced by the light of fire. This line enabled him afterward to determine the absolute power of refraction in different substances. Experiments to ascertain whether the solar spectrum contained the same bright line in orange as the line produced by the orange of fire light led him to the discovery of 574 dark fixed lines in the solar spectrum. Today, millions of such fixed absorption lines are now known. \n\nContinuing to investigate, Fraunhofer detected dark lines also appearing in the spectra of several bright stars, but in slightly different arrangements. He ruled out the possibility that the lines were produced as the light passes through the Earth’s atmosphere. If that were the case they would not appear in different arrangements. He concluded that the lines originate in the nature of the stars and sun and carry information about the source of light, regardless of how far away that source is.\n\nFraunhofer found out that the spectra of Sirius and other first-magnitude stars differed from the sun and from each other, thus founding stellar spectroscopy.\n\nThese dark fixed lines were later shown to be atomic absorption lines, as explained by Kirchhoff and Bunsen in 1859. These lines are still called \"Fraunhofer lines\" in his honor; his discovery had gone far beyond the half-dozen apparent divisions in the solar spectrum that had previously been noted by Wollaston in 1802.\n\nFraunhofer also developed a diffraction grating in 1821, which occurred after James Gregory discovered the principles of diffraction grating and after American astronomer David Rittenhouse invented the first man-made diffraction grating in 1785.\n\nUltimately, however, his primary passion was still practical optics, once noting that \"In all my experiments I could, owing to lack of time, pay attention to only those matters which appeared to have a bearing upon practical optics\".\n\nFraunhofer produced various optical instruments for his firm. This included the Fraunhofer Dorpat Refractor used by Struve (delivered 1824 to Dorpat Observatory), and the Bessel Heliometer (delivered posthumously), which were both used to collect data for stellar parallax. The firm's successor, Merz und Mahler, made a telescope for the New Berlin Observatory, which confirmed the existence of the major planet Neptune. Possibly the last telescope objective made by Fraunhofer was supplied for a transit telescope at the City Observatory, Edinburgh, the telescope itself being completed by Repsold of Hamburg after Fraunhofer's death.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32531874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32531874", "title": "List of posthumous number ones on the UK Singles Chart", "text": "List of posthumous number ones on the UK Singles Chart\n\nThe death of a popular musician, and likewise, the use of a dead musician's work in advertising, often causes a sharp increase in sales of the musician's recordings and associated products; this has led to a number of posthumous number one singles in the UK and elsewhere. \nThe phenomenon, a topic of discussion in both the media and academia, has occurred 19 times in the UK since 1959.\n\nThe UK Singles Chart is a record chart compiled on behalf of the British record industry based on sales of singles in the UK. Since 1997, the chart has been compiled by The Official Charts Company and was based entirely on sales of physical singles from retail outlets until 2005, when digital downloads were included in the chart compilation. The UK Singles Chart originated in 1952, when \"New Musical Express\" (NME) published the first chart of singles sales. The positions of all songs are based on week end sale totals, from Sunday to Saturday, but pre-1987, the charts were released on a Tuesday due to the need for manual calculation.\n\nThe first deceased artist to top the charts was Buddy Holly, who died in a plane crash on 3 February 1959. Three weeks later his song \"It Doesn't Matter Anymore\" entered the charts, and in April it reached number one. In the 1960s Eddie Cochran and Jim Reeves achieved their first and only UK number ones after their deaths, as did Jimi Hendrix in 1970. In August 1977 the \"King of Rock'n Roll\", Elvis Presley, died of a heart attack and his song \"Way Down\", which was already in the charts at the time, quickly climbed to number one. Presley achieved four further posthumous number ones in the 2000s. In 2002 his song \"A Little Less Conversation\", a little-known former B-side, topped the charts after being remixed by Dutch dance music producer Junkie XL for a television advertisement for Nike, which broke Presley's long-standing tie with The Beatles for the most UK number ones. Three years later three of his singles returned to the top spot when all his previous number one singles were re-issued to mark what would have been his 70th birthday.\n\nIn late 1980 and early 1981 three singles by John Lennon reached number one in quick succession following his murder on 8 December 1980. His fellow former member of The Beatles, George Harrison, achieved a posthumous number one in 2002 when a re-issue of his song \"My Sweet Lord\", originally a number one in 1971, entered the chart at number one. In doing so, he knocked \"More than a Woman\" by American singer Aaliyah from the top spot, the first time that two deceased artists had topped the charts in consecutive weeks.\n\nThe following singles were all explicitly credited (either wholly or partially) to deceased artists when they reached number one on the UK Singles Chart. Singles featuring deceased artists who did not receive an explicit credit (e.g. as a member of a band), such as the 1991 re-release of Queen's \"Bohemian Rhapsody\" following the death of lead singer Freddie Mercury, are not included.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31569689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31569689", "title": "Love and Pain", "text": "Love and Pain\n\nLove and Pain is a 2008 book of philosophy and metaphysics by American author Thaddeus Golas, the author of \"The Lazy Man's Guide to Enlightenment\". Love and Pain was first drafted in 1986 and underwent several rewrites throughout the 1990s. Golas called it his Opus and considered it his most important work. He was not able to find a publisher for the work while alive. He described it as \"a step beyond \"The Lazy Man's Guide\", and perhaps a revision to it.\"\n\n\"Love and Pain\" was published posthumously by Seed Center Books/Even Lazier Publishing, an independent publishing company in California dedicated to publishing the work of Golas.\n\nLove and Pain describes a theory of metaphysics, nuclear physics, cosmology and more including a theory of gravitation. Golas describes a universe made entirely of one single vital substance. This substance has only three possible states: expanding continuously with great force, contracting continuously (appearing as a sub-atomic particle), and alternating between expansion and contraction at a variety of frequencies (appearing as energy). Golas explains how this accounts for every phenomenon known of, without providing any proven science. \n\n"}
{"id": "45339516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45339516", "title": "Luigi Adami", "text": "Luigi Adami\n\nLuigi Adami (born 12 December 1900, date of death unknown) was an Italian sports shooter. He competed in the 50 m rifle event at the 1948 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "34679591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34679591", "title": "Manono II", "text": "Manono II\n\nManono II (died 1819) was a Hawaiian chiefess and member of the royal family during the Kingdom of Hawaii. She along with her second husband Keaoua Kekuaokalani died fighting for the Hawaiian religion after Kamehameha II abolished the kapu system.\n\nManono's father was Kekuamanoha, and her mother was Kalola-a-Kumukoʻa, the wife of Kamehameha before his victory at the Battle of Mokuʻōhai. Through her father she was a granddaughter of Kekaulike, the King or Moʻi of Maui. From her mother's side, she was the great-granddaughter of King Keaweʻīkekahialiʻiokamoku of Hawaiʻi.\nHer half-siblings from her father's first marriage were Kalanimoku, Boki, and Wahinepio. She was cousin of Kaʻahumanu, Kalākua Kaheiheimālie, and Namahana Piʻia, Kuakini, Governor of Hawaiʻi; and Keʻeaumoku II.\n\nAround 1809, while still in her youth, Manono was chosen along with her cousin Kekāuluohi by Kamehameha I \"to warm his old age\" thus becoming the old king's last two wives.\nThe two young chiefesses were deemed his \"wahine pālama\", a term that denote their special status and rank which required them to live in a sacred enclosure of lama wood.\n\"Lama\" was the Hawaiian name for endemic ebony trees of genus \"Diospyros sandwicensis\" that were used in religious ceremonies.\nOral tradition attested that Kamehameha's last child, a daughter named Kapapauai, was born from one of his \"wahine pālama\", either Manono's or Kekāuluohi's.\nShe would later marry High Chief Keaoua Kekuaokalani, a nephew of the Kamehameha I. Kekuaokalani's maternal grandmother was her namesake Manono I, a daughter of Alapainui and Kamakaimoku. Kekuaokalani inherited the guardianship of the Hawaiian god of war, Kūkaʻilimoku after Kamehameha's death.\n\nAfter Kamehameha I's death, on May 8, 1819, Liholiho succeeded as King Kamehameha II. Influenced by powerful female chiefs such as Kaʻahumanu and his mother Keōpūolani, the young king abolished the kapu system that had governed life Hawaiian society for centuries. Henceforth, men and women could eat together, women could eat formerly forbidden foods, and official worship at the stone platform temples, or heiaus, was discontinued. This event is called the ʻAi Noa, or free eating.\nIn response to Liholiho's actions, Kekuaokalani put himself forward as the defender of the \"kapu\" system and old religion, amassing a formidable force in the village of Kaʻawaloa. All attempts of reconciliation failed between the two royal cousins and war broke out between Kekuaokalani and the royal forces led by Manono's half-brother Kalanimoku. Fighting alongside her husband in the Battle of Kuamoʻo, they both perished in defense of the \"kapu\" system.\n\nVisiting Kuamoʻo a few years afterward, British missionary William Ellis of the London Missionary Society chronicled the native accounts of the battle and the death of Kekuaokalani and Manono on Ellis' tour of the island of Hawaii:\nThe small tumuli increased in number as we passed along, until we came to a place called Tuamoo. Here Kekuaokalani made his last stand, rallied his flying forces, and seemed, for a moment, to turn the scale of victory; but being weak with the loss of blood, from a wound he had received in the early part of the engagement, he fainted and fell. However, he soon revived, and, though unable to stand, sat on a fragment of lava, and twice loaded and fired his musket on the advancing party. He now received a ball in his left breast, and immediately covering his face with his feather cloak, expired in the midst of his friends. His wife Manono during the whole of the day fought by his side with steady and dauntless courage. A few moments after her husband's death, perceiving Karaimoku and his sister advancing, she called out for quarter; but the words had hardly escaped from her lips, when she received a ball in her left temple, fell upon the lifeless body of her husband, and instantly expired. The idolaters having lost their chief, made but feeble resistance afterwards; yet the combat, which commenced in the forenoon, continued till near sunset, when the king's troops, finding their enemies had all either fled or surrendered, returned to Kairua.\n\n"}
{"id": "16979933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16979933", "title": "Martin P. Blomberg", "text": "Martin P. Blomberg\n\nMartin Petrus Frederik Blomberg (December 11, 1888 in Östervåla, Sweden—1966 in Winter Park, Florida) was an American engineer of Swedish origin. He became well known for the development of the truck frame for the diesel-electric locomotives of the Electro Motive Division (EMD).\n\nBlomberg grew up as a son of a teacher and minister. He graduated from the technical institute in Örebro, and in 1910 went to the university at Uppsala. In this time, he was very active and trained for the Olympic Games of 1912 in Sweden. However, he immigrated to Canada in the same year. From 1912 to 1914, he worked in Trois-Rivières, Quebec in a paper mill, and studied technical drawing and mechanical construction in an evening school. From 1915, he worked then National Steel Car Ltd Hamilton, Ontario. He later traveled for a year by canoeing 900 miles from the Albany River to the Hudson Bay.\n\nIn 1916, he went to the US and enlisted with the US Army during World War I. After he returned, he married Laura Van Buskirk. His son Richard Nelson Blomberg was born on October 21, 1924.\n\nFrom 1925 to 1935, Blomberg worked for the Pullman Company, where he was responsible for the construction of railroad truck frames and passenger car bodies. Among his designs he assisted at Pullman were the Union Pacific M-10000 in 1934 (), and the Brooklyn Rapid Transit \"Green Hornet\", lightweight MS Multi-section car (New York City Subway car) for use on the BRT elevated transit lines in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nOn September 1, 1935, he accepted a position in the Electro-Motive Corporation (from 1941, it was renamed to Electro-Motive Division of General Motors). There Blomberg was given responsibility for the construction of locomotive bodies, frames and truck frames. The EMC E4 diesel-electric locomotive was mostly his design, including the three-axle (A1A) truck. In 1939 he designed the four-wheel flexible truck frame from the three-axle version for the new diesel-electric freight locomotive called the EMD FT. This four-wheel truck frame and its derivations were incorporated in more than 15,000 locomotives. Unofficially, but generally accepted, the two-axle trucks, Blomberg B and Blomberg M, are named after him. The two-axle AAR Type A switcher truck is also a Blomberg design.\n\nBlomberg registered over 100 patents with the US Patent and Trademark Office during his 32 years with EMD. In 1947, he became lead engineer after the chief engineer of EMD.\n\nOn 1 June 1949, he retired. He died in 1966 at the age of 78 years in Winter Park, Florida.\n"}
{"id": "1662506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1662506", "title": "Mojo (comics)", "text": "Mojo (comics)\n\nMojo is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, usually those featuring the X-Men family of characters. Created by writer Ann Nocenti and artist Arthur Adams, Mojo first appeared in \"Longshot\" #3 (November 1985), as the titular hero's archenemy, and subsequently a villain to the X-Men and their various sub-groups as well.\n\nMojo is one of the \"Spineless Ones\", an alien race that is immobile without advanced technology. He is a slaver who rules the Mojoverse, a dimension where all beings are addicted to his gladiator-like television programs. The character is an absurdist parody of network executives, and was created as a result of the influence of writers like Marshall McLuhan, Noam Chomsky, and Walter Lippmann on Nocenti.\n\nAt the time she wrote the \"Longshot\" miniseries, writer Ann Nocenti was pursuing her Master's degree at the School of International and Public Affairs, Columbia University, working at the magazine \"Lies of Our Times\", and reading the work of writers like Marshall McLuhan, Noam Chomsky, Edward S. Herman and Walter Lippmann. Mojo, a slaver and dictator who rules his dimension through the television programs he produces, was created as a direct result of these influences. (A character named Manufactured Consent after the Chomsky book of the same name, who appeared in Nocenti's 1990 book \"The New Mutants Summer Special\", was also born of these works.) Artist Art Adams designed the character per Nocenti's instructions that he be disgusting and unpleasant, and also tried to make him look frightening. The wires that hold Mojo's eyelids open, thus preventing him from blinking, were inspired by an interview with actor Malcolm McDowell on \"Late Night with David Letterman\", in which McDowell revealed that the similar apparatus he had to wear for the Ludovico technique scene in \"A Clockwork Orange\" had scarred his corneas. The rest of the equipment attached to Mojo's head controls his mechanized chair.\n\nMojo first appeared in \"Longshot\" #3 (November 1985), and was the main villain of the miniseries, appearing in the subsequent three issues.\n\nThe character subsequently appeared in \"The New Mutants Annual\" #2 (1986). That same year, in \"The Uncanny X-Men Annual\" #10, Mojo appeared as the villain in the story, which saw Longshot join the X-Men. In 1988, Mojo appeared in a backup story in \"The Uncanny X-Men Annual\" #12. He was the main villain of the one-shot special \"Excalibur: Mojo Mayhem\" (December 1989). Subsequent appearances include \"Marvel Comics Presents\" #89 (1991), \"The Uncanny X-Men Annual\" #15 (1991), \"Wolverine\" #52 (March 1992), \"X-Men\" #6 (March 1992), \"Wolverine\" #53 (April 1992), \"X-Men\" #7 (April 1992), #10-11 (July–August 1992), \"The Uncanny X-Men Annual 16\" (Annual 1992), \"Marvel Comics Presents\" #119 (1993), \"What If?\" #59 (March 1994), \"X-Men Adventures: Season Two\" #11 (December 1994), \"Marvel: Portraits of the Universe\" #1 (March 1995), \"X-Men: Mutations\" #1 (1996), \"Youngblood/X-Force\" #1 (July 1996), \"X-Force/Youngblood\" #1 (August 1996), \"X-Force\" #60-61 (November–December 1996), \"The Adventures of the X-Men\" #9-10 (1996-January 1997), \"X-Babies: Murderama\" #1 (January 1998), \"X-Force\" #76 (April 1998), \"X-Babies Reborn\" #1 (January 2000), \"X-Men Unlimited\" #32 (September 2001), \"Exiles\" #18-19 (December 2002-January 2003), \"The Uncanny X-Men\" #460-461 (August 2005), and \"Exiles\" #73-74 (February 2006).\n\nMojo was featured in an entry in the \"Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe Deluxe Edition\" #8, and in the \"All-New Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe A-Z\" #7 (2006).\n\nMost of the denizens of what would come to be called the Mojoverse were slowly driven insane by waves of energy from another space-time continuum. It would take centuries (of their time) for them to discover the origin of these transmissions. Mojo's race did not evolve much because of their inability to stand upright, until a scientist named Arize developed exoskeletons that allowed a fast technological revolution. Some members of the race refused to use them and called themselves the Spineless Ones. Instead, they used motorized platforms to transport their bodies. They also became the rulers and demanded a race of slaves to do all the tasks they could not or would not do. Arize created the slaves, humanoid beings, using genetic engineering and basing their appearance on the \"demons\" of the Spineless Ones' nightmares - which were actually the characters of TV broadcasts of Earth-616, somehow scattered throughout their time line and perceived by the Spineless Ones. Unknown to the Spineless Ones, Arize secretly planted the seeds in their genetic make-up to eventually turn on their masters and rule Mojoworld justly. Arize was banished by the Spineless Ones when he refused to build weapons for them.\n\nThe power structure of this world was based on the television industry and Mojo became their leader by controlling it, along with the slave trade. Mojo named the world after himself; 'Mojo World' and the universe the 'Mojoverse'. His followers, including Warwolves (vaguely dog-like metallic beings with the ability to kill people and take over the remains of their bodies as skins), became known as Wildways. Mojo also has a Chamberlain, an android named Major Domo, who oversees Mojo's financial records and relays Mojo's commands to his servants. Major Domo is completely loyal to Mojo, but often obeys with sarcastic comments towards Mojo. Major Domo's assistant, a near-constant companion, is called Minor Domo, a hysterical young girl prone to imagining worst-case scenarios.\n\nOne of the slaves Mojo had ordered, Longshot, became one of his best stunt performers. However, Longshot disagreed with the rules and led a rebellion (most likely motivated by the death of Jackson, a fellow stuntman). He was captured and had his memories removed, but managed to escape to Earth, followed by bounty hunters. On Earth Longshot found allies in the form of Dr. Strange and the human stuntwoman Rita Ricochet and they managed to defeat Mojo, driving him back to his own world. Longshot, his friend Quark and Rita returned to the Mojoverse to free their fellow slaves. Longshot's mission failed and they were captured by Mojo. Longshot was brainwashed again, while Rita was tied to the bow of Mojo's worldtravelling ship, serving as a guide. In an alternate future, Mojo had Rita transformed into an insane warrior/mage named Spiral and she was sent back in time to capture or kill Longshot.\n\nMojo became interested in Earth and captured Betsy Braddock, the mutant known as Psylocke, who had been blinded, and implanted bionic eyes in her original body. Much later it was learned that the eyes Mojo gave her were in fact interdimensional cameras allowing Mojo to record and broadcast all she could see. Psylocke was rescued by the New Mutants, and she aided both the New Mutants and the X-Men before officially becoming an X-Man herself. It was later revealed that Betsy's body retained robotic eyes, as her consciousness was switched with the one of a comatose Japanese assassin.\n\nShortly afterward, Mojo sent Longshot to Earth where he joined the X-Men as well. Mojo had planned on enslaving the X-Men by turning them into children, but the New Mutants managed to free them and together they forced Mojo to flee again. Still Mojo found out that the adventures of the X-Men shot the audience level to top ratings; which increased his political power.\n\nMojo also manipulated the X-Men member Rachel Summers into working for him, but she soon escaped after realizing she was little more than a prisoner. Further setbacks began as Psylocke's broadcasts stopped when the X-Men were presumedly killed by the Adversary, but Mojo wanted to have footage of the X-Men to improve his ratings, so one of his assistants came up with a possible solution; create versions that could be controlled. Many different versions of the X-Men appeared before him, but he considered them all failures and ordered their death except the X-Babies. The X-babies were an immediate success but they rebelled almost immediately and escaped taking Rita with them.\n\nMojo reappeared along with an alternate version of Jubilee. Mojo had kidnapped Jubilee, taking her to the \"Big Crunch\", the end of time where all matter would collapse. Jubilee agreed to be Mojo's slave if he wouldn't interrupt the Crunch. Older and renamed Abcissa, she kidnapped her younger self and took her to the Crunch. Wolverine appeared with a missile and defeated Mojo. Since Jubilee refused Mojo's offer, Abcissa's existence was nullified.\n\nEventually, Longshot returned to free the slaves and deposed Mojo, with the help of Mojo's upright, more human looking (although yellow) clone Mojo II: The Sequel. However, Mojo II turned out to be just as bad as his predecessor and Longshot had to defeat him as well. After Mojo II was ousted, Mojo reclaimed his position and became the leader of Mojo World once more.\n\nMojo never learned from his mistake concerning the X-babies and would create more X-Babies, who also rebelled. Eventually all of the X-Men had X-Baby counterparts on Mojoworld, and they all rebelled against Mojo and fled to an area he could not reach. He also created the Mitey 'Vengers (child versions of the Avengers) to finally stop the X-Babies once and for all. Of course, the Mitey 'Vengers, being essentially of the same moral fabric as their adult counterparts, turned on Mojo and defeated him. Finally, he created toddler versions of the Age of Apocalypse villains. These entities were seemingly more intelligent and broke the control Mojo had on them. According to Dazzler these versions were responsible for the destruction of a great part of Mojoworld, but apparently Mojo managed to defeat them and managed to once again take control of Mojoworld. He then made a deal with the Exiles: in return for Longshot's help, Mojo receives broadcasts from all over the multiverse through the Exiles' crystal palace; prior to this, Mojo had tried to get his hands on Nocturne using the \"Exile Legal Eagles\", clones of the Exiles' previous lineup.\n\nLater, Mojo reappeared along with the previously vanished Nocturne and Juggernaut, using a \"Jean-Bomb\" to turn the X-Men into babies, and after his defeat, a guilt-ridden Juggernaut was tempted with the offer of remaining a child, but ultimately refused. Emma Frost made sure that Mojo would be handled by professionals so that he would never bother the X-Men again and was locked away by the Government. But, he is now free once again.\n\nDuring the \"\" storyline, Mojo was one of the villains Beast offered to \"sell his soul to\" in order to obtain help in reversing the effects of M-Day. Spiral later mentions to Beast that Mojo is displeased with the fact that mutants are now an endangered species and how it will affect his television ratings.\n\nIn both 2010 and 2011 Mojo was revealed as the villain responsible for Spider-Man and Wolverine being sent randomly shifting through time, the time-shifts being virtual creations generated by Mojo as a new idea.\n\nLater, Mojo was demoted by the producers on Mojo World due to low ratings and was moved to \"Educational Broadcasting\". He created an agency named The Yellow Eye and spied on every single mutant alive. When Cable sent Domino to spy on this agency, she ended up being captured and brainwashed by Mojo. His organization was eventually brought down by the X-Force, when Domino broke free from his control, and he was revealed as the mastermind behind the agency. Mojo is currently a prisoner of Cable's X-Force team.\n\nIn the 2016 \"Howard the Duck\" run, Mojo was revealed to have used footage of Howard's adventure to create a reality show for the Mojoverse. To fill in the gaps on Howard's life, Mojo filmed footage of a small alien in a duck costume interacting with Lea Thompson performing as Beverly Switzler (referencing the 1986 film adaptation of the character).\n\nMojo's multi-legged flying platform is armed with various particle beam weapons. It also has a large artificial appendage that can be used as an arm or a slicing weapon and two smaller arms. He is strong enough to hold a human off of the ground with one arm easily. He has several powers derived from magic, like the projection of magical energy blasts, controlling the minds of others, and inter-dimensional teleportation. These magical powers are strengthened by the 'worship of his followers' and hence directly linked to the popularity of his TV programs. He cannot be harmed by the touch of Rogue, no matter how long she is in contact with him. He has bear hugged Rogue with much ease until she was left unconscious.\n\nHe is also a master manipulator and schemer, shown in his organization of his slaughter entertainment games. He can also call upon vast manpower to assist him in his endeavors and has access to vast technological resources.\n\nMojo is also a force of death and corruption, able to generate an anti-life field that makes his touch able to wither plants and age humans outside of his home dimension. According to Doctor Strange, his prolonged presence on Earth could cause storms and other natural disasters.\n\nMojo claims that he and the beings who populate Mojo World are \"unique\" in the sense that unlike the rest of the Marvel Universe, Mojo World has no parallel counterpart; this was documented in \"Exiles\" #18-19. However, alternate versions of Longshot and Mojo exist in the Ultimate Marvel continuity, and an alternate future reality of Mojo World, where the Spineless Ones were mistreated slaves, was featured in the \"Shattershot\" storyline.\n\nIn the series \"Ultimate X-Men,\" which is a separate Marvel continuity, Mojo is not an alien but an ordinary human being named Mojo Adams. He is a well-dressed, obese albino television producer. He trapped a young mutant fugitive Longshot on an island where humans hunt him as part of a popular reality show. This Mojo also has a Major Domo, a young, fit, human man with a family of his own. Later on he was seen working with Augustus \"Gus\" Beezer and hired Deadpool and his Marauders to capture the X-Men and bring them back to Krakoa where they were to be executed on live television by the Reavers. He kept Professor X captive and forced him to watch the entire show a la \"Clockwork Orange\". His plans however were foiled by the combined efforts of the X-Men and Spider-Man, who was also captured during his visit to the X-Mansion. It is unknown what happened to Mojo after this because Xavier seemed to have \"taken care\" of him during his escape.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899656", "title": "Müezzinzade Ali Pasha", "text": "Müezzinzade Ali Pasha\n\nMüezzinzade Ali Pasha (; also known as Sofu Ali Pasha or Sufi Ali Pasha or Meyzinoğlu Ali Pasha; died 7 October 1571) was an Ottoman statesman and naval officer. He was the Grand Admiral (Kapudan Pasha) in command of the Ottoman fleet at the Battle of Lepanto, where he was killed in action. He also served as the governor of Egypt from 1563 to 1566.\n\nHe was the son of a muezzin, hence his epithet \"Müezzinzade\" (\"son of a muezzin\"). He was a favorite of Sultan Selim II and of the women of the seraglio who admired his voice as a muezzin, and he married one of Selim II's daughters.\n\nFrom 1563 to 1566, Ali Pasha served as the Ottoman governor of Egypt. He was reportedly a very ascetic Sufi man, wearing only \"coarse woolen clothes\" and paying many visits to the tombs of saints in the City of the Dead necropolis in Cairo.\n\nAli Pasha, with a fleet eventually numbering 188 galleys, fustas, transports and other ships, carried the main land force, commanded by Lala Mustafa Pasha, for the Ottoman invasion and conquest of Cyprus from Constantinople on 16 May 1570 to Cyprus, where they landed on 3 July. While Lala Mustafa commanded the eventual capture of the island from Venice, Ali Pasha took the bulk of his fleet to Crete and then to Morea, thereby effectively preventing any Christian relief fleet from coming to the aid of the besieged defenders of Cyprus.\n\nAli Pasha was commander-in-chief of the Ottoman naval forces at the Battle of Lepanto on 7 October 1571. Selim had entrusted him with one of the most precious possessions of the Ottoman Sultans, the great \"Banner of the Caliphs\", a huge green banner heavily embroidered with texts from the Qur'an and with the name of Allah emblazoned upon it 28,900 times in golden letters. It was intended to provide an incentive for him and his men to do their best in battle.\n\nAli Pasha was more of a land soldier than a naval tactician, and his failure to keep his lines together and keep his individual squadrons from charging like cavalry units in a land battle allowed the Christian forces to penetrate his battle line in various places and to surround and defeat the isolated ships. He was also somewhat of a firebrand and almost immediately sought the direct confrontation with his opposite number. His flagship, the galley \"Sultana\", battled head-to-head with Don Juan's flagship \"La Real\", was boarded and, after about one hour of bloody fighting, with reinforcements being provided to both sides by other galleys in their respective fleets, was captured. In the ensuing battle, Ali Pasha was slain and his head was then displayed upon a pike. This, and the capture of the Banner of the Caliphs by \"La Real\", led to a collapse in Turkish morale, greatly contributing to their rout in the battle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "231242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231242", "title": "Neo (The Matrix)", "text": "Neo (The Matrix)\n\nNeo (born as Thomas A. Anderson, also known as The One, an anagram for Neo) is a fictional character and the main protagonist in \"The Matrix\" franchise. He was portrayed as a cybercriminal and computer programmer by Keanu Reeves in \"The Matrix Trilogy\", as well as having a cameo in \"The Animatrix\" short film \"Kid's Story\". Andrew Bowen provided Neo's voice in \"\". In 2008, Neo was selected by \"Empire\" as the 68th Greatest Movie Character of All Time. Neo is also an anagram of \"one\", a reference to his destiny of being \"The One\" who would bring peace. There are claims that a nightclub in Chicago inspired the name of the character in the Matrix.\n\nThomas A. Anderson was born in Lower Downtown, Capital City, USA on March 11, 1962 (so, in the real world near 2162) according to his criminal record, or September 13, 1971 according to his passport (both seen in the film). His mother was Michelle McGahey (the name of the first film's art director) and his father was John Anderson. He attended Central West Junior High and Owen Patterson High (named after the film's production designer). In high school, he excelled at science, math and computer courses, and displayed an aptitude for literature and history. Although he had disciplinary troubles when he was thirteen to fourteen years old, Anderson went on to become a respected member of the school community through his involvement in football and hockey.\n\nAt the start of the series, Neo (also known as Anwar) is one of billions of humans neurally connected to the Matrix, unaware that the world he lives in is a simulated reality. \n\nIn his legitimate activities, he is a quiet programmer for the \"respectable software company\" Meta Cortex; but he is also a computer hacker who penetrates computer systems illicitly and steals information under his hacker alias \"Neo\", and he also sells illegal untraceable computer systems and hacking programs along with controlling computer viruses stashed on CDs and diskettes. During his time as a hacker, Anderson has learned about something known only as \"The Matrix\". It is described as a vague notion that Neo has felt his whole life that \"there is something wrong with the world\".\n\nDuring the years prior to the events of \"The Matrix\", Neo has spent his time trying to find the one man who he thought could tell him what the Matrix was: a supposed terrorist known only as Morpheus. After an encounter with another hacker, Trinity, Anderson is suddenly contacted by Morpheus via a cell phone mailed to his office, but is almost immediately captured by the virtual reality's Agents, led by Agent Smith. After refusing to co-operate with the agents, Neo has an electronic bug implanted within his Matrix-simulated body so that his actions can be tracked and those seeking to make contact from the free world can be traced and destroyed. He is then contacted by Trinity, freed from the bug, and taken to meet Morpheus.\n\nNeo is offered a choice to remain in his everyday life and forget about the Matrix or to learn what the Matrix really is. Choosing to learn what the Matrix really is, he takes a drug (commonly called the \"red pill\") designed to disrupt his body's neural connection to the Matrix, and wakes up disoriented and alarmed to find himself weak, hairless, naked in a pod full of red liquid, and connected to many wires.\n\nNeo is rescued in the real world and his body is healed of the effects of his atrophy suffered in the power plant. Once Neo regains consciousness and is able to walk, Morpheus tells Neo the truth about the Matrix: that it is a simulated world to which humans are connected, and that humanity is used as a power source for giant intelligent machines. He also tells Neo about The One, a human with the power to manipulate The Matrix, who has been foretold to end the war between humans and machines, and says that he believes Neo is The One. The next day, Neo begins his \"training\" and becomes knowledgeable in many forms of combat, as well as vehicle and weapons operations, by having various training programs uploaded directly into his brain. He also receives further instruction from Morpheus on subjects such as \"freeing his mind\" from the restrictions of the Matrix, essentially overcoming the physics engine the Matrix operates on. He is also made aware the existence of its Agents.\n\nAfter several days aboard Morpheus' hovercraft, the \"Nebuchadnezzar\", Neo is taken to meet the Oracle, who has the power of foresight within the simulated world. She tells him that he has the \"gift\", but appeared to be waiting for something, and that in his present life he is not the one. The Oracle warns him that a situation will arise when he will have to choose between saving his own life or that of Morpheus.\n\nReturning from the Oracle to the hard line, which serves as the exit for \"red pills\" to leave The Matrix, the crew of Morpheus's ship is betrayed by Cypher, a \"red pill\" who is willing to give the agents Morpheus in exchange for the promise of being reconnected permanently to the Matrix as an escape from the real world's bleakness. In the Matrix, SWAT troops kill Mouse. Cypher jacks out, grabs a real-world lightning gun, injuring Tank and killing Dozer. He kills Apoc and Switch, who remain jacked in, by prematurely terminating their connections. In the Matrix, Smith defeats and captures Morpheus. Neo and Trinity try to jack out but Cypher threatens to unplug them too, however he is thwarted when Tank recovers, killing Cypher and helping Neo and Trinity jack out.\n\nNeo learns the Agents seek to hack into Morpheus's brain, forcing him to tell them the access codes to the mainframe in the hidden rebel city Zion. After refusing to sacrifice Morpheus to prevent this, Neo decides to jack in and attack the building where he is being held. He and Trinity proceed to fight their way to the roof level of the building, where they are confronted by Agent Jones. Neo unloads two entire magazines on Jones as he dodges each bullet effortlessly. When Jones returns fire, Neo proves capable of dodging bullets himself, fluidly moving in a way only an agent was thought to be capable of. Trinity then shoots Jones at point-blank range. Using an armed chopper, Neo and Trinity successfully rescue Morpheus. As Neo has just successfully rescued comrades from a building protected by heavily armed guards and agents (thought to be an unprecedented feat), Tank and Morpheus both believe Neo is indeed The One. Neo tries to tell Morpheus what the Oracle told him, but Morpheus explains that she merely told Neo what he needed to hear: had he believed himself to be the One, he would likely not have attempted the rescue, which was a necessary step to his emergence as the One.\n\nReaching the hard line, Morpheus and Trinity return to the real world, but Neo is trapped by Agent Smith. Trinity admonishes Neo to run, but he stands his ground, having begun to believe that he may be the One. The two of them draw guns and fire them empty, but are able to effortlessly dodge each other's fire. Neo skillfully engages Smith in hand-to-hand combat, almost seeming to be Smith's equal. In the end Neo is briefly incapacitated and held by Smith as a subway train approaches, but at the last minute he is able to get free and backflip up onto the platform, leaving Smith to be run over. The Agent, however, possesses the body of the conductor and emerges from the train and Neo, realizing that the Agents' ability to possess other bodies makes this a fight he cannot win, flees the subway station.\nPursued by Smith and his fellow Agents, Neo is able to evade them and reach the location of the hard line, just to be ambushed and fatally shot in the chest by Smith. Trinity, seeing Neo die in the real world while his mind is still in the Matrix, tells his evidently lifeless body that the Oracle had foretold that she would fall in love with The One. When kissed by Trinity, Neo comes back to life, finally fully emerging as The One. The Agents try to kill him again, Neo simply raises his hand and the bullets freeze in mid-air, then drop harmlessly to the ground. It is then shown that he is able to perceive, interpret, and alter the computer code of the Matrix. Fully believing in his newfound powers, he effortlessly fends off Agent Smith before forcing himself into the agent's body and destroying it from within. The other two agents quickly flee.\n\nNeo is then seen leaving a message for the machines via phone; a warning that he plans to oppose the machines by freeing as many human minds as possible. He then hangs up and flies into the sky.\n\nApproximately six months between the events of the first film and \"The Matrix Reloaded\", Neo is now fully confident in his ability to manipulate the artificial world within the Matrix. Not surprisingly, he no longer uses firearms and instead prefers martial arts. His ability to manipulate the coding of the Matrix allows him to stop incoming fire from multiple attackers. Dispensing with the long black trenchcoat and black shirt he wears at the conclusion of \"The Matrix\", Neo now prefers a cassock with a high-rise mandarin collar giving the appearance of a priest or Bishop. He and Trinity are now lovers. Neo seeks more advice from the Oracle, unsure of his purpose, while Zion prepares for a massive attack by the Machines from over 250,000 Sentinels – giant jellyfish-like machines. The Oracle directs him on a quest to find the Keymaker, a personified program that has access to numerous backdoors within the system. The Keymaker will be able to lead Neo safely to the Source, the programming heart of the machine world, which contains the programs sustaining the Matrix.\n\nAfter the Oracle leaves, Agent Smith (now known simply as Smith) appears, and it is revealed that Neo had separated Smith from the rest of the Matrix code by shattering him, giving him a life independent of the machine's systems, and now the two of them share a \"connection\" to each other. Smith is no longer an Agent of the Matrix, but has become more virus-like, able to insert his code into other systems and infect other programs and human minds to make copies of himself. Neo fends off hundreds of these Smiths and escapes. Later, he, Morpheus, and Trinity steal the Keymaker from his keeper, The Merovingian. During this time, Neo stays behind to fight off the Merovingian's men and becomes separated from the others. He flies off to help them and only arrives in time to save Morpheus and the Keymaker from two agents crashing two semis together.\n\nThe Keymaker explains that two power stations elsewhere in the Matrix must be disabled in a short time window to successfully disable the security system of a building where the door to the Source will appear, allowing Neo to reach it. This task is accomplished; but the Keymaker is killed, a hovercraft is destroyed, and Trinity is put in jeopardy by Agents of the Matrix; a vision that Neo has seen earlier in his dreams. Entering the door, Neo finds himself confronted by the Architect, a program which created and designed The Matrix.\n\nThe Architect presents Neo with a radically different explanation of his origins and purpose, claiming that Neo is actually the sixth \"One\". He goes on to say that Zion has been destroyed by the machines five times before; faced with the dilemma of allowing humanity to be destroyed, or allowing the machines' preferred status quo to be reconstructed, Neo's five predecessors have helped reload, or restart the Matrix, before being allowed to rebuild Zion with a handful of freed humans. The productive output of the Matrix is based upon this repeated cycle of destruction and recreation, to keep the human minds which power it in a stable structure. The Oracle is as much part of that self-perpetuating design as the Architect, Neo is told, and the prophecy of The One is designed to ensure it runs smoothly each time.\n\nThe Architect warns of the annihilation of all human life in and out of the Matrix if he did not enter the Source door to reload the Matrix, but unlike his predecessors, Neo does not enter the door to the Source; he chooses not to believe the Architect's dire warnings of consequences, and to save Trinity instead. Returning to the Matrix, he catches Trinity as she falls from an upper-story window of a power plant. She dies of a gunshot wound to the heart that she sustains during the fall, but Neo brings her back to life by reaching into her virtual body, removing the bullet, and restarting her heart.\n\nTogether, they exit the Matrix and return to the real world. Neo tells Morpheus that the Prophecy was merely another system of control, and that Zion's destruction is imminent. A group of Sentinels begin to converge on their hovercraft, so that Neo and the others are forced to abandon it and flee as it is destroyed. Neo stays behind, realizing that he can now sense the Sentinels, and stops them from attacking by force of will; however, the effort causes him to fall unconscious. He and the crew are rescued by the hovercraft \"Mjolnir\" (also known as the \"Hammer\"), the crew of which is dealing with a mystery in the form of Bane, a crew member from another ship, who is the only survivor of an ill-fated attack by the Zion fleet. Unknown to anyone, Bane has been caught and infected by Smith.\n\n\"The Matrix Revolutions\" begins immediately after the events of the second movie. As a result of his struggle with the Sentinels, Neo returns to consciousness finding himself caught in an isolated train station-like limbo only accessible by order of the Merovingian, from which his mind is unable to free itself. It is here that he meets Sati, a young program created without a purpose who is being smuggled into the Matrix by her parents, who are also programs in the machine world. Neo remains trapped until freed by Trinity (assisted by Morpheus and Seraph) who threatens the Merovingian in a Mexican standoff.\n\nAfter a final visit to the Oracle, Neo learns that he has powers over the machines which extend beyond the Matrix and that Smith is spreading, threatening to destroy both the Matrix and the real world. Building on the Oracle's previous explanations about the nature of choice, Neo learns that the Architect's assertion that his choice to save Trinity would inherently lead to the extinction of humankind was incorrect, due to his nature as a purely mathematical being rendering him incapable of seeing past choices made by humans as he considers them mere variables in equations. Having told Neo that he now has the power to choose to end the war and defeat Smith, the Oracle then states \"Everything that has a beginning has an end, Neo\" and informs him that he must now go to the heavily guarded Machine City in hopes of stopping the Sentinels and Smith. Soon after Neo leaves, dozens of Smiths come and assimilate Seraph, Sati, and the Oracle.\n\nNeo and Trinity are given the \"Logos\", a hovercraft commanded by Morpheus's former lover, Niobe, in what seems to others as a suicidal journey to the Machine City. Meanwhile, Captain Roland and the \"Nebuchadnezzar\"'s surviving crew of Link and Morpheus in the hovercraft \"Hammer/Mjolnir\" return to Zion, which is now besieged and losing to the Machines. Neo and Trinity are ambushed by the stowaway Bane/Smith, who blinds Neo with an electric cable, but is killed when Neo discovers an ability to 'see' programs and Machines independently of his eyesight. Neo, with Trinity as pilot, guide the \"Logos\" past the Machine City's defenses, but in the effort the \"Logos\" crash-lands, and Trinity sustains fatal injuries and dies.\n\nNeo encounters the Deus Ex Machina, a giant Machine construct and the de facto leader of the Machines. He offers Smith's defeat and destruction in exchange for a truce. The offer is accepted; Neo enters the Matrix to find that the Smith program has copied itself throughout the simulated world, and has turned it into a rainswept dark simulation. One of the copies of Smith, having assimilated the Oracle and obtained as much freedom and control over the virtual world as Neo, faces Neo alone. For a while, the two fight evenly with no real advantage, but ultimately, the tireless Smith begins to wear out Neo and takes control of the fight. Realizing he cannot win with brute force, Neo allows Smith to assimilate him, which enables the machines to eradicate the Smith virus directly through his body, though Neo's life is sacrificed in the process.\n\nNeo's body is taken away by the Machines in the Machine City, while below in Zion, the Machines stop their attack and retire in deference to the peace that Neo bartered. The Matrix is rebooted and a beautiful sunrise appears over the horizon, created by Sati in Neo's honor.\n\nAlthough the fate of Neo was never truly revealed in the MMORPG sequel, \"The Matrix Online\", his influence nevertheless had a strong impact on several key events throughout the game.\n\nIn the beginning, scattered code fragments of Neo's \"RSI\" (Residual Self Image) were found on the bodies of the impostor Agents who appeared across the Mega City during Chapter 1.1 (later revealed to be Sentinels under the command of The General program). When held, these fragments echoed some of the final thoughts of Neo inside the redpill's mind. Each of the three main post-war political organizations inside the Matrix realized the possible significance of these fragments and began fighting amongst themselves to gather as many as they could.\n\nThe Oracle reveals a secret society of exiles known only as the Shapers, who are the only ones able to bring the Fragments together in any significant way and that they must be protected from the impostor agents' corruption. The redpills' distrust and organizational differences prove too much for any strong unity, so that a Shaper fell into the captivity of the false agents. His power was used to encode some part of The One's being onto them, creating the powerful, pale-skinned \"N30 Ag3nts\".\n\nIn Chapter 1.2, Morpheus states that though the Machines never returned Neo's physical remains (Neo's body in the real world) to Zion, they did not \"recycle\" them: a reference to the first film, in which Morpheus tells Neo that the machines liquefy deceased occupants of the Matrix to provide organic sustenance for its living inhabitants. This would be the driving force behind Morpheus' descent into fanatical terrorism against the System in an attempt to force the Machines to reveal Neo's fate, ultimately leading to his assassination.\n\nThe subject of Neo then fell to the side lines for other struggles until the arrival of The Oligarchs in Chapter 9. The original intruder, Halborn, was notably intrigued by the life of The One and was personally shocked about the implications of Neo's ability to affect Machines outside of the simulation had on his search for what he called \"The Biological Interface Program\".\n\nAfter Halborn's removal in Chapter 10, little more was questioned until the revelation of the Trinity project, originally headed by The Oracle, in Chapter 12. It was revealed that both Neo and Trinity were actually the culmination of decades of Machine research into translating human DNA perfectly into Machine code, allowing them to interface directly with technology without the need for simulated interfaces.\n\nNeo has carried, since his conception, the Matrix's source code known as the Prime Program. This gives him the ability to freely manipulate the simulated reality of the Matrix, similar to the authority a system administrator has over a given system. He manifests these abilities as various superhuman powers.\nThe power Neo exhibits most often is akin to telekinesis in the Matrix. In that, he seems capable of manipulating any object in the Matrix through will alone. By focusing this ability upon himself, he can fly at amazing speeds and jump great distances. Whilst his speed is never specified, he flies from the Merovingian's mountain manor to the highway \"500 miles due south\" in a very short time. His speed of flight is further exemplified by his ability to escape explosions, and the sonic boom left in his wake has the power to overturn rows of heavy vehicles. He has used this ability multiple times to stop several bullets in mid flight, first against the Agents and again against the Merovingian.\nIn addition to his abilities, Neo possesses superhuman strength and agility, and is near-invulnerable to most attacks. Although his physical endurance is immense, Neo can still be harmed or killed, as evidenced by an injury that Neo suffers while blocking a sword with his hand. His endurance is also finite: when confronted by masses of Smith clones in the second film, Neo was forced to escape rather than continue fighting through he easily overpowered at least 40 Smith clones and threw about 50 of him, and upon being disconnected from the Matrix, he appeared exhausted and winded. His reflexes are great enough to dodge bullets. Neo's strength and speed level have never been accurately measured; he is known to be capable of Mach 8, at least, and Mach 10 under stress, but his upper limit has never been shown. In the third movie, Neo has reached his (apparent) full strength; he is capable of withstanding a direct physical punch from Smith, and is also able to hold his own in a prolonged fight (though his endurance is not without limit; he can fight Smith to a standstill, but not defeat him).\n\nIn the real world, Neo does not display any of the aforementioned abilities aside from fighting skills. Neo does have some degree of wireless connectivity with the Matrix system: he eventually learns to sense the presence of the Machines, and even interfere with their function. This capability initially overwhelms him, and he loses consciousness from the strain. According to the Oracle, \"The power of The One extends beyond the Matrix. It reaches from here all the way back to where it came from.\" Apparently because of his status as The One, he has a direct connection to the Source, and can therefore affect everything connected to it. After he is blinded in the fight against Smith/Bane, Neo begins to perceive everything connected to the Source, including the Machine City itself, as silhouettes of golden light; he is thus able to see Smith/Bane and kill him.\n\n"}
{"id": "50859283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50859283", "title": "Neville–Neville feud", "text": "Neville–Neville feud\n\nThe Neville–Neville feud was an inheritance dispute which took place in the north of England during the early fifteenth century between two branches of the Neville family. The inheritance in question was that of Ralph Neville, 1st Earl of Westmorland, a prominent northern nobleman who had issue from two marriages. Westmorland favoured as his heirs the children of his second wife, Joan Beaufort, closely related to the royal family, over those of his first wife, Margaret Stafford.\n\nAfter Ralph Neville's death in 1425, many of the Neville family holdings were transferred through legal means to the children of Joan Beaufort (the Middleham cadet branch of the Neville family), in effect disinheriting the senior branch (the Nevilles of Raby). This led to more than a decade of rivalry between both branches of the family. Ralph Neville's eldest son, John Neville, had died before his father. John Neville's son, also named Ralph, became the 2nd earl of Westmorland. Though the title earl of Westmorland passed to the senior Nevilles, for legal reasons, many holdings, particularly those of the Neville patrimony in Yorkshire and Raby Castle in Durham were transferred to Joan and her children. The Beaufort Nevilles were also able to consolidate their control over the County Palatine of Durham after Robert Neville assumed the office of Bishop of Durham in 1437.\n\nThe senior branch disputed their disinheritance — both legally and by force of arms — but Joan Beaufort's eldest son, Richard Neville, prevailed due to his family's greater political connections. The feud continued through the 1430s, until an agreement was reached in 1443. This settlement was largely favourable to Salisbury, and both branches of the family remained at odds with each other. The dispute between the senior and junior branches of the Neville family continued into the Wars of the Roses. During the prolonged civil war, the senior branch sided with the Lancastrians, while their cousins sided with the Yorkists. Margaret Stafford's grandsons gave Salisbury no support during the conflict and he was captured fighting for Richard of York at the Battle of Wakefield. Rather than being ransomed according to the usual custom of the time, Salisbury was beheaded by the common people \"who loved him not.\"\n\nDisputes over divided inheritances were not uncommon in later medieval England; apart from the dispute between branches of the Neville family, there were similar disputes within the Talbot and Mountford families. Historian Michael Hicks described these three disputes, where property was transferred from a senior line to a junior line, as \"particularly large scale and high profile\".\n\nRalph Neville, the 1st earl of Westmorland (c. 1364–1425) married twice. His first wife Margaret Stafford, daughter of the earl of Stafford, died in 1396. Shortly after her death, Ralph Neville married Joan Beaufort, daughter of John of Gaunt and cousin of King Richard II. They had 9 sons and 5 daughters together: the eldest, Richard Neville, became earl of Salisbury; their second son, William Neville, became earl of Kent and was created Baron Fauconberg; George Neville became the 1st Baron Latimer, Edward Neville was Baron Abergavenny and their youngest, Robert Neville, eventually assumed the office of Bishop of Durham. Historian Anthony Tuck writes that this marriage \"was to have major consequences both for the Neville family and for the English nobility\" throughout the 15th century. \n\nNeville's new proximity to the royal family through his marriage to the Richard II's cousin, and his loyalty to the Crown during the crisis of July 1397, led to his elevation to the peerage as earl of Westmorland in 1397. Joan and Ralph were granted numerous offices, lands, wardships and pensions. They continued to enjoy royal favour until the death of King Henry IV in 1413. \n\nThe Neville patrimony included lands in Yorkshire, Durham, Westmorland and Cumberland. After marrying Joan Beaufort, Ralph Neville began the process of disinheriting the children from his first marriage through a legal process called enfeoffment. The earl's eldest son John Neville, had previously agreed to a settlement in which he would inherit only Raby Castle and Brancepeth Castle in Durham. This transfer of property to the cadet branch resulted in the \"virtual disinheritance\" of the senior branch of the family. It was done legally and left the senior Nevilles with no legal recourse. Charles Ross has noted that the earl's eldest son does not seem to have attempted to stop his father or prevent his son's disinheritance, but may even have assisted with some of the transfers. \n\nThis process of transfer of property, the so-called \"Neville trust\" or \"Neville-Beaufort trust\", had as its architect William Gascoigne, one of the crown's most prominent lawyers. This might reflect an interest of the crown in retaining the Neville lands with Beaufort descendants, who would be closely related to the royal family due to their shared Lancastrian ancestry.\n\nWhen Ralph Neville died in 1425, the title earl of Westmorland passed to his eldest grandson Ralph \"in tail male\", but neither of his sons by Margaret Stafford were mentioned in his will. Joan immediately took possession of Middleham Castle, Penrith Castle and Sheriff Hutton Castle for her eldest son. She also held Raby Castle in Durham as part of her dower until her death in 1440. Historian J. R. Lander has written that the second earl of Westmorland was as \"poor in land as an Earl as his father had been in early life as a baron.\" \n\nOnly some estates in Brancepeth, Northumberland, Lincolnshire, two inns in London and Newcastle upon Tyne, Bywell Castle and property in Ripon were left for the senior Neville inheritance. The vast Yorkshire properties of Middleham Castle, Sheriff Hutton Castle and Wensleydale all went to Richard Neville, who also became Warden of the West March when he inherited the Honour of Penrith in Cumberland. His wife, 15-year-old Alice Montagu, was the sole heir of the late Earl of Salisbury, so Richard also inherited the title earl of Salisbury in 1428 when his father-in-law was killed in the Hundred Years' War. \n\nWestmorland spent much of life trying to recover the properties at Middleham, Sheriff Hutton, Penrith and Raby, but he was largely unsuccessful, because Joan Beaufort had powerful allies amongst the nobility including Thomas Langley, the Bishop of Durham, and her brother Cardinal Beaufort. Langley withheld the patronage of the county palatine from the second earl, and denied him any available official offices or positions under the bishop's grant. Westmorland entered into recognisances with the Beaufort-Nevilles in 1430, after Salisbury brought the matter before the King's council. When Salisbury departed for the Hundred Years' War in 1431 and again in 1436, Westmorland was once again bound over to keep the King's peace. However, in 1435, complaints from the North reached the Lord Chancellor that the dispute between the elder and junior branches of the Neville family had resulted in the assembling \"by manner of war and insurrection, great routs and companies upon the field, which have done all manner of great offences\".\n\nWhen the Bishop of Durham died in 1437, Cardinal Beaufort used his influence on the king's council to help Joan's younger son Robert Neville become the new Bishop. The House of Beaufort was able to gradually consolidate its control over the holding. By 1441, Salisbury's younger brother Lord Fauconberg was steward and military commander of Durham. There were a number of attempts to arbitrate a settlement in council, and between 1441 and 1443 both parties were constrained by bonds not to enter each other's estates except with permission. Historian R. L. Storey has questioned—with Salisbury being such a significant member of the council—whether Westmorland ever had \"much faith in its impartiality\".\n\nA peace was finally agreed between Salisbury and Westmorland on 26 August 1443. Pollard writes that the \"settlement\" signified a \"crushing defeat\" for Ralph II and that the \"odds had been heavily stacked\" against him from the start. True, he was confirmed in his right to the Lordship of Raby Castle, but had to surrender everything else he had previously claimed from Salisbury back to him. He was also placed in bonds of £400 to keep to the agreement in the future, not just to Salisbury, but to his four brothers as well. Westmorland had to renounce all claims to the Neville lands in County Durham, and had to pay annual rents to Salisbury for various Northumberland manors. Salisbury was not subject to similar constraints, merely having to agree to not claim the £400 pension while Westmorland adhered to their agreement.\n\nJ.R. Lander described the Neville–Neville feud as illustrating how the Neville family \"never could and never did work together\". The dispute between the senior and junior branches of the Neville family continued into the Wars of the Roses. During the prolonged conflict that ravaged the English nobility, Westmorland gave his half-brother no support at all; in fact Westmorland's younger brother, Lord John Neville died fighting for the Lancastrian Henry VI at the Battle of Towton in 1461. Salisbury himself was captured at the Battle of Wakefield and instead of being ransomed, he was beheaded by the common people, who \"loved him not.\" Lander also suggested that if had been united as a family behind Salisbury, who supported Richard of York during the Wars of the Roses, York's \"power in the land would have been overwhelming\". \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2850414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2850414", "title": "OMAC (comics)", "text": "OMAC (comics)\n\nThe OMACs (; Omni Mind And Community, originally Observational Metahuman Activity Construct) are a fictional type of cyborg appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. They are based on the Jack Kirby character of the same name.\n\nThe OMACs first appeared in \"The OMAC Project\" #1 (June 2005) and were created by Greg Rucka.\n\nThe OMACs are cyborgs, human bodies transformed by a virus into living machines to assassinate any and all beings with superpowers. The virus was created from Brainiac-13's nanotechnology, which had been acquired by the U.S. Department of Defense and Lexcorp, and was then secretly introduced into general vaccine supplies. The OMACs are featured in the mini-series \"The OMAC Project\" that leads up to the \"Infinite Crisis\" series.\n\nThe new OMACs are controlled by the Brother MK I satellite. Brother MK I was created by Batman and programmed by Pseudopersons, Inc., scientist Buddy Blank, who in this retelling of the story is a partner of Wayne Industries. Its sole purpose was to gather data on all metahumans, both villain and hero. Batman had grown distrustful of metahumans after discovering that the Justice League altered his memories following an altercation with Doctor Light in \"Identity Crisis\". Alexander Luthor Jr. later gave the satellite sentience as part of his plans. Maxwell Lord, recently promoted to the top rank of Checkmate, subverted the original mission of the Brother MK I satellite by inculcating a fear and suspicion of all metahumans. The first OMAC test subject was renamed \"Buddy Blank\", after the scientist who programmed the satellite.\n\nThe OMACs' history may be more recent than Brother MK I's itself. Equus and Pilate, formerly featured in \"Superman: For Tomorrow\", are later denounced as former iterations of the OMAC concept. In \"\" an all mechanical OMAC is an enemy of the Metal Men. Since then, the design has improved to the current form, with little to no changes to the base model.\n\nWhen Maxwell Lord brainwashed Superman to kill Batman, Wonder Woman, and possibly the rest of the JLA, Wonder Woman broke Lord's neck to free Superman from his control. Because Lord proffered this solution while held by her Lasso of Truth, Diana believed this was the only course of action possible; she was fiercely criticized from many quarters.\n\nBrother MK I, rechristening itself Brother Eye, initiated the \"KingIsDead\" protocol. Specifically designed to be used in the event of Lord's death, it ordered all of the OMACs (all 1,373,462 of them) to attack and kill all the metahumans on Earth and destroy Checkmate. A group superhero effort stopped the attack, using an EMP blast as well as a \"Shut Down\" command given by Sasha Bordeaux, who had become a third-generation cyborg linked to Brother Eye, now designated Blacknight 1. These measures effectively freed the majority of the OMAC hosts from their nanotech forms and reduced the number of OMACs to roughly 200,000.\n\nIn response, the satellite broadcast footage of Wonder Woman executing Maxwell Lord, preceded by the word MURDER, to media outlets all over the world, destroying her reputation. After this, Brother Eye initiated the final protocol, \"Truth and Justice\", by having all the remaining OMACs invade and attack her homeland, Themyscira, to wipe out all of the Amazons.\n\nIt was revealed that Alexander Luthor Jr. was the one who wrestled control of Brother Eye away from Batman. He used it to program his multiverse tuning fork and redirect its energy to where he needed it as part of his attempt to re-create Earth-Two, and in turn, a perfect Earth. Brother Eye continues to aid Alex Luthor by remapping out the multiverse and helping to guard the tuning fork with its OMACs, reasoning that it would eliminate the need for heroes like those who Batman had created it to monitor by aiding in the creation of a perfect Earth.\nBatman leads a collection of superheroes, consisting of: Hal Jordan, John Stewart, Green Arrow (only because Batman is attempting to trust people again and contacted him to see if he would come), Mister Terrific, Black Lightning, Black Canary, the new Blue Beetle, Metamorpho, Booster Gold and Sasha Bordeaux, to Earth's orbit using Intel from Booster Gold and Ted Kord's spaceship. Blue Beetle's scarab allows him to find and reveal Brother Eye's hidden location above Earth by negating its vibrational frequency. Brother Eye sends the OMACs and the two groups clash.\n\nWith the two Green Lanterns fighting off most of the OMACs and Brother Eye's defenses, the heroes' ship crashes into Brother Eye. Metamorpho provides an oxygen supply as Blue Beetle and Booster Gold stay with the ship to guard it, but Blue Beetle later assists in the destruction of the device that Brother Eye used to hide in orbit and the rescuing of some of the other heroes. Batman goes to distract Brother Eye by shutting off the central computer, although Brother Eye tries to distract him by showing him Nightwing's confrontation with Superboy-Prime. Sasha, linked to Oracle, goes to upload every computer virus on Earth into Brother Eye's system as well as trying to prevent the artificial gravity from shutting down. Black Canary goes to the surveillance room to use her sonic scream to blind the Eye. Black Lightning and Mr. Terrific go to the memory banks so that Black Lightning fries as much circuitry as possible while Mr. Terrific, invisible to machines and electronics, delivers the fatal blow by knocking Brother Eye off orbit using its orbital thrusters.\n\nThe plan works, and Brother Eye is deactivated, and begins to fall apart. All of the remaining activated OMACs shut down, releasing their hosts. As the heroes evacuate the falling Brother Eye, it tries to take Batman down with it, telling him he can never trust the costumed heroes again after what they did to him. Batman, however, says that he will take his chances, and accepts Hal Jordan's aid in getting to safety.\n\nAfter crash-landing in Saudi Arabia, Brother Eye tries to download its system into Sasha as a means of self-preservation. However, Sasha manages to destroy the satellite, freeing herself from the nanobots infecting her.\n\nOn June 28, 2006, DC released \"DCU: A Brave New World\", which was the epilogue to the \"OMAC\" limited series.\n\nBrother Eye has not been fully decommissioned and lies in a NORAD facility. Michael Costner is the last OMAC unit, kept as emergency backup, and Brother Eye calls to him.\n\nThis Brother Eye has corrupted programming and now believes that all humans need to be subjugated and/or exterminated, whether metahuman or not. It has also recently begun to manifest disassociative behavior with at least two \"personalities\" now being heard in the OMAC's internal conversations.\n\nThe 2006 \"OMAC\" limited series (not to be confused with the 2005 \"OMAC Project\" limited series) follows \"the last OMAC\" Michael Costner. Brother Eye attempts to make Costner rebuild itself, but is forced to face his wrath when Costner regains control of both his forms, human and OMAC, and subsequently destroys Brother Eye again; although a tiny fraction of it is still active.\n\nA portion of Brother Eye was later retrieved and rebuilt by Buddy Blank, a former scientist from Wayne Industries. This portion meets the time-traveling Karate Kid who is seeking a cure for the Morticoccus, a 31st-century illness that evolved from the OMAC virus. Announcing that \"the Great Disaster has come to me\", Brother Eye directs him to Blüdhaven. Soon after, it reactivates its offensive protocols and assimilates the hangar it is being held in, turning the people within the hangar into new OMAC cyborgs. It then travels to the ruins of Blüdhaven and assimilates the city's infrastructure and the people within it using the Atomic Knights and Firestorm as power sources. Later, it activates a Boom Tube and travels to Apokolips, where it assimilates the entire planet and attempts to obtain the Morticoccus virus from Karate Kid, who has also been led there. However, it is forced to flee Apokolips when attacked by the Pied Piper using the Anti-Life Equation.\n\nLater, Brother Eye transforms Buddy Blank into a modified OMAC resembling Kirby's version of the character. Buddy uses this power to save himself and his grandson from starvation in the Command-D bunker beneath Blüdhaven. Brother Eye implies that it will contact Buddy again for a future need.\n\nA modified OMAC is shown as a part of the new Outsiders team in the 2008 \"Batman and the Outsiders\" series.\n\nWhen a team from the Justice League attempts to seize a partially active OMAC, a leftover from \"The OMAC Project\" events, Batman takes the opportunity to reclaim it for himself—having Dr. Francine Langstrom (the long-suffering wife of Dr. Kirk Langstrom) create a clever forgery to leave in care of the League.\n\nThe OMAC, aptly renamed ReMAC, appears to be \"an iPod with its tracklist wiped\". Dr. Langstrom is unable to discern who ReMAC was before being infected by the OMAC virus; finding ReMAC a mere husk, devoid of any personal identity. This complete lack of personality makes ReMAC the perfect infiltrator, using its advanced shapeshifting abilities and its unquestioning obedience for the Outsiders' sake.\n\nSince its lack of personality allows villains to snatch control of ReMAC, turning it into an enemy, Batman rigs up a telepresence system turning ReMAC into an advanced drone for Salah Miandad, Dr. Langstrom's chief assistant, enabling operation from the Outsiders HQ, the Batcave, or other secret locations.\n\nHowever, while testing a new neural interface, less dependent from his stamina, to control the former OMAC, Salah is knocked into a coma. His mind comes to reside in ReMAC, supplanting the missing personality of the drone for a while (one full issue), until, due to the machinations of the villainous Simon Hurt, ReMAC is fed a malicious self-destruct code that blows it to pieces, making the restoration of Salah's consciousness impossible.\n\nIn \"Final Crisis\", Darkseid and his prophets from Apokolips have taken new forms as humans on Earth after mass-distributing the Anti-Life Equation around the world. Batman has been captured; Superman is on a journey in the multiverse; and Wonder Woman has become a Female Fury. With most of the world's population under the influence of the equation, they are effectively under Darkseid's control seemingly making him the ruler of the Earth.\n\nIn the one-shot \"Final Crisis: Resist\", Mister Terrific and the Checkmate organization are working to mount a resistance against Darkseid, but seemingly do not have the means to do it. Sitting in despair in a Checkmate stronghold, Snapper Carr, through his hopeless rantings, gives Mister Terrific an ingenious idea. Using Sasha Bordeaux to make contact with Brother Eye, he convinces the A.I. to help them, explaining that it will surely be destroyed if Darkseid indeed captures the world.\n\nRealizing this, Brother Eye accepts Mister Terrific's terms and reveals that there are still millions of people infected with OMAC nanotech. These people, now mindless drones of Darkseid, are overwritten by Brother Eye and become OMAC soldiers under the command of Mister Terrific. This gives Checkmate and him the means to forcefully resist Darkseid.\n\nDuring the \"Final Crisis\" events when all seems lost, Lord (Brother) Eye prepares to leave the doomed Earth with his OMACs and the people of Command-D, the bunker underneath Blüdhaven, and start a new society on another Earth in another universe. To this end, he asks Renee Montoya to serve as the head of a to-be-founded Global Peacekeeping Agency, her faceless appearance as the Question being an allusion to the faceless agents of the GPA from the original OMAC series.\n\nIn the \"\" limited series, the resurrected Maxwell Lord controls the squad of OMACs attacking Jaime Reyes's home and his family. The old Justice League International arrives and takes Jaime's family to safety.\n\nAfter Max escapes from the JLI, Booster Gold's partner, Skeets informs the JLI that he has the locations of the four formerly-dormant Checkmate cells which he had placed inside robotics laboratories that Max has been in contact with. The JLI travel to Chicago beneath the hidden robotics laboratory and learns that the OMAC variants were pure robots that are human/machine synthesis of the originals. Skeets scans the fingerprints of the robotics laboratory and discovers that Professor Ivo was here.\n\nWhen Captain Atom absorbs the energy from Magog's spear, he is propelled forward through time 112 years in the future, where Max, while long dead, has plunged humanity into a massive metahuman war ruled by OMACs. Captain Atom battled for survival alongside the future versions of the Justice League, however they all are eventually contaminated by a new version of OMACs and one by one become OMACs themselves. Captain Atom is eventually returned to the present, but not before Batman (Damian Wayne) tells him how to stop Max's ultimate plans.\n\nAfterward, Max gains new abilities to transform his targets into cadaver Black Lanterns then into OMAC's after being fully restored to life. Max uses a device to enhance his new mental powers, turning people around the world into OMACs to attack Wonder Woman and the JLI. Max sends his newest OMAC known as OMAC Prime which he gave sentience and his voice to attack Diana and the JLI. This new OMAC could assimilate the abilities of metahumans in order to grow ever stronger with time, initially overwhelming the heroes it fought. During the final battle, Prime takes Blue Beetle's power, causing it to be nearly unstoppable, but Blue Beetle mentioned to OMAC Prime that it cannot control the Scarab's power. Blue Beetle uses this to paralyze prime with crippling system failures before attacking and destroying OMAC Prime for good.\n\nIn \"Batman\" #700 (June 2010) in a vignette within the issue, Damian Wayne as Batman is shown having succeeded at what his father had failed to do: regaining control of Brother Eye.\n\nIn The New 52, a reboot of the DC Comics universe that launched in September 2011, a Cambodian-American man named Kevin Kho is introduced as the new O.M.A.C. and had worked as a genetic researcher at Project Cadmus Maxwell Lord is revealed to have had a hand in Kevin's transformation.\n\nThe series was cancelled after running eight issues, due to DC's introduction of a \"Second Wave\" of new titles. Additionally, O.M.A.C. joined the Justice League International in the title's final issue.\n\nDuring the \"Forever Evil\" storyline, the Crime Syndicate of America has captured Kevin Kho's O.M.A.C. form and is planning to use him as a weapon. Harley, who is working for the Thinker, takes O.M.A.C. and activates him causing him to fire a laser on the mountain which collapses on the two teams inside it. Harley arrives at Belle Reve and drops O.M.A.C. near James Gordon Jr. James Gordon Jr. also learns that the Thinker is planning to use O.M.A.C. While James Gordon Jr. is talking to Harley, the Thinker has taken O.M.A.C. and begins transferring his mind to it. Now activated, O.M.A.C. proceeds to attack Amanda Waller, James Gordon Jr., Harley Quinn, King Shark, and Kamo. King Shark begins to attack Kamo, until Amanda Waller is able to lie to both to get them to help her defeat OMAC. OMAC is fighting King Shark and Kamo while Amanda Waller attempts to activate Belle Reve's failsafe through the Thinker's computer. Before she is able to do so, Kevin Kho reaches out to her telling her he is trapped within OMAC. As Waller works with Kho, the team returns from the mountains, only to be dragged into the fight with OMAC. Having killed Kamo, OMAC is able to defeat Power Girl, Steel, Unknown Soldier, and King Shark and heads further into Belle Reve. Deadshot and Harley find \"magic bullets\" that will allow them to gain temporary super human powers. Deadshot fires them into Harley, Waller, himself, and Unknown Soldier and the Squad begins to attack OMAC. Kho is able to regain control of OMAC before Waller has to enact her last resort. But without knowing, Captain Boomerang knocks OMAC into a porthole, sending him to another dimension.\n\nKevin Kho returns in DC Rebirth in Blue Beetle. He is a friend of Jaime Reyes. After seeing monsters in the city, OMAC takes control of Kevin and begins fighting. Jaime convinces OMAC to help him against the real enemy and OMAC agrees.\n\nBrother Eye can activate the virus in any infected person, at any time, within planetary range. Once activated, the person is covered in cybernetic armor and becomes a thrall to Brother Eye's commands.\n\nAn OMAC unit has access to archives on almost every metahuman on file, and can simulate the powers of a variety of superheroes and supervillains in order to target its opponent's weaknesses. Among the powers displayed were the ability to fly, shoot fire, project needles of artificial cellulose (against Alan Scott; an approximation of his weakness to wood), dispense flame-retarding foam, and fire various energy beams from its eye and hands with caustic, concussive, or blinding effects. In addition, the OMAC unit can morph its extremities into blades and pincers. It once simulated Shazam's lightning power and forced Mary Marvel to revert to her human form. It can disable the Eradicator effortlessly.\n\nThe only weakness an OMAC has is that it is human beneath its shell, intended as a deterrent to prevent heroes from using lethal force against them. The OMACs are dependent on their assessment of individual heroes. When fighting multiple opponents, they require a few seconds to adapt their countermeasures for each hero. Atom Smasher was able to stop an OMAC that was attacking the JSA by stomping it before it could assess his threat level. OMACs are also very vulnerable to Mister Terrific, as he cannot be detected by technology.\n\nIn the \"Superman/Batman\" series, Brainiac temporarily occupies a prototype OMAC drone.\n\nReMAC, the OMAC possessed by the Outsiders, has the same powers and abilities of a regular OMAC. He greatly differs in his physical makeup, being red in color and with a more human-like face even in his armored form.\n\nUnable to contact Brother Eye and unable to access his former personality, ReMAC was controlled for a period by Dr. Salah Miandad. In this way, ReMAC retained his invulnerability and strength, but was limited by Salah's personal stamina and attention span, which was not always sufficient for a fight. Salah's mind was later trapped into the ReMAC body by a faulty mind interface, removing the limits of his below-average stamina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58735548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58735548", "title": "Omberto Aldobrandeschi", "text": "Omberto Aldobrandeschi\n\nOmberto Aldobrandeschi (? - 1259), as a member of the Aldobrandeschi family, is a Count of Santafiore in the Maremma of Siena. Counts of Santafiore are usually in wars against the city of Siena. In 1259, Omberto was killed in one of these battles, at the village of Campagnatico. Omberto is mentioned in Canto XI of Purgatorio of Divine Comedy by Dante, as an example of a sinner of pride.\n"}
{"id": "19418707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19418707", "title": "Paul Humphreys (philosopher)", "text": "Paul Humphreys (philosopher)\n\nPaul Humphreys is a significant contributor to the philosophy of emergent properties, as well as other areas in the Philosophy of science and Philosophy of probability. He is a Professor of Philosophy at the University of Virginia, specialising in philosophy of science, metaphysics, and epistemology. His current interests include the metaphysics and epistemology of emergence, computational science, empiricism and realism, and strategy.\n\nHumphreys has published a substantial number of books and scholarly articles. He is Series Editor for the Oxford Studies in the Philosophy of Science. He serves on the editorial Boards of the \"American Philosophical Quarterly\", \"Philosophy of Science\", and \"Foundations of Science.\n\n"}
{"id": "22424452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22424452", "title": "Pet Society", "text": "Pet Society\n\nPet Society was a social-network game developed by Playfish that could be played on Facebook. The game ranked as one of the most popular Facebook applications. Players could design their pets by choosing genders, names, colors and altering appearances. The user interacted with their pets through washing, brushing, petting and feeding.\n\nThe game was launched August 8, 2008 by Playfish and at its \"peak had 50 million monthly players, 5 million daily players and made as much as $100,000 a day by selling in-game items.\" Electronic Arts acquired Playfish in November 2009. The game was scheduled to close on June 14, 2013; the server shut down on June 18.\n\nAn iOS version, \"Pet Society Vacation\" was released in 2011 with similar gameplay, but set on a topical island with new settings like underwater.\n\nPlayers' pets could interact with each other within the \"friend\" network. Pets could visit the pets of their owner's friends and perform activities with these pets (washing, grooming, feeding, etc.) A pet could visit other pets as many times a day as it wished. The players received coins and Paw Points on their first visit of the day to each friend, but earn only Paw Points for subsequent visits. Participating in the Daily Lottery, visiting friends, winning awards, cleaning or playing with pets, winning hurdle races, or betting on the outcome of hurdle races also provided players with ways to earn coins. Visiting friends, buying items, and using the stadium earned players Paw Points.\n\nPaw Points were akin to XP/EXP (Experience) in other social games of the sort; gaining sufficient paw points made the pet level up. When a pet leveled-up, the player received coins, new features and special statuses. During Pet Society's initial release, there were 34 levels. In 2009, after houses were enlarged to accommodate 10 rooms, 13 additional levels were added, bringing the total to 47. In August 2010, the level cap of Pet Society was raised to 100.\n\nSome certain items were required to be bought at a certain level.\n\nGamezebo gave it 5 out of 5 stars, liking the content variety and fun unique activities, but warning the players aren't raising pets.\n\n"}
{"id": "2940520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2940520", "title": "Peter II, Count of La Marche", "text": "Peter II, Count of La Marche\n\nPeter of Bourbon-La Marche (1342–1362, Lyon) was the eldest son of James I, Count of La Marche and Jeanne of Châtillon.\n\nHe was knighted by his father shortly before the Battle of Brignais, in which both father and son fought. Both were severely wounded during the battle, but were carried away by their soldiers to Lyon. He survived his father only a short while, and was succeeded by his brother John.\n"}
{"id": "19179678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19179678", "title": "Protocell", "text": "Protocell\n\nA protocell (or protobiont) is a self-organized, endogenously ordered, spherical collection of lipids proposed as a stepping-stone toward the origin of life. A central question in evolution is how simple protocells first arose and how they could differ in reproductive output, thus enabling the accumulation of novel biological emergences over time, i.e. biological evolution. Although a functional protocell has not yet been achieved in a laboratory setting, the goal to understand the process appears well within reach.\n\nCompartmentalization was important in the origins of life. Membranes form enclosed compartments that are separate from the external environment, thus providing the cell with functionally specialized aqueous spaces. Because lipid bilayer of membranes is impermeable to most hydrophilic molecules (dissolved by water), cells have membrane transport systems that achieve the import of nutritive molecules as well as the export of waste.\nIt is very challenging to construct protocells from molecular assemblies. An important step in this challenge is the achievement of vesicle dynamics that are relevant to cellular functions, such as membrane trafficking and self-reproduction, using amphiphilic molecules. On the primitive Earth, numerous chemical reactions of organic compounds produced the ingredients of life. Of these substances, amphiphilic molecules might be the first player in the evolution from molecular assembly to cellular life. A step from vesicle toward protocell might be to develop self-reproducing vesicles coupled with the metabolic system.\n\nSelf-assembled vesicles are essential components of primitive cells. The second law of thermodynamics requires that the universe move in a direction in which disorder (or entropy) increases, yet life is distinguished by its great degree of organization. Therefore, a boundary is needed to separate life processes from non-living matter. The cell membrane is the only cellular structure that is found in all of the cells of all of the organisms on Earth.\n\nResearchers Irene A. Chen and Jack W. Szostak (Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2009) amongst others, demonstrated that simple physicochemical properties of elementary protocells can give rise to simpler conceptual analogues of essential cellular behaviors, including primitive forms of Darwinian competition and energy storage. Such cooperative interactions between the membrane and encapsulated contents could greatly simplify the transition from replicating molecules to true cells. Competition for membrane molecules would favor stabilized membranes, suggesting a selective advantage for the evolution of cross-linked fatty acids and even the phospholipids of today. This micro-encapsulation allowed for metabolism within the membrane, exchange of small molecules and prevention of passage of large substances across it. The main advantages of encapsulation include increased solubility of the cargo and creating energy in the form of chemical gradient. Energy is thus often said to be stored by cells in the structures of molecules of substances such as carbohydrates (including sugars), lipids, and proteins, which release energy when chemically combined with oxygen during cellular respiration.\n\nA March 2014 study by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory demonstrated a unique way to study the origins of life: fuel cells. Fuel cells are similar to biological cells in that electrons are also transferred to and from molecules. In both cases, this results in electricity and power. The study states that one important factor was that the Earth provides electrical energy at the seafloor. \"This energy could have kick-started life and could have sustained life after it arose. Now, we have a way of testing different materials and environments that could have helped life arise not just on Earth, but possibly on Mars, Europa and other places in the Solar System.\"\n\nWhen phospholipids are placed in water, the molecules spontaneously arrange such that the tails are shielded from the water, resulting in the formation of membrane structures such as bilayers, vesicles, and micelles. In modern cells, vesicles are involved in metabolism, transport, buoyancy control, and enzyme storage. They can also act as natural chemical reaction chambers. A typical vesicle or micelle in aqueous solution forms an aggregate with the hydrophilic \"head\" regions in contact with surrounding solvent, sequestering the hydrophobic single-tail regions in the micelle centre. This phase is caused by the packing behavior of single-tail lipids in a bilayer. Although the protocellular self-assembly process that spontaneously form lipid \"monolayer\" vesicles and micelles in nature resemble the kinds of primordial vesicles or protocells that might have existed at the beginning of evolution, they are not as sophisticated as the \"bilayer\" membranes of today's living organisms.\n\nRather than being made up of phospholipids, however, early membranes may have formed from monolayers or bilayers of fatty acids, which may have formed more readily in a prebiotic environment. Fatty acids have been synthesized in laboratories under a variety of prebiotic conditions and have been found on meteorites, suggesting their natural synthesis in nature.\n\nOleic acid vesicles represent good models of membrane protocells that could have existed in prebiotic times.\n\nElectrostatic interactions induced by short, positively charged, hydrophobic peptides containing 7 amino acids in length or fewer, can attach RNA to a vesicle membrane, the basic cell membrane.\n\nScientists have suggested that life began in hydrothermal vents in the deep sea, but a 2012 study suggests that inland pools of condensed and cooled geothermal vapor have the ideal characteristics for the origin of life. The conclusion is based mainly on the chemistry of modern cells, where the cytoplasm is rich in potassium, zinc, manganese, and phosphate ions, which are not widespread in marine environments. Such conditions, the researchers argue, are found only where hot hydrothermal fluid brings the ions to the surface—places such as geysers, mud pots, fumaroles and other geothermal features. Within these fuming and bubbling basins, water laden with zinc and manganese ions could have collected, cooled and condensed in shallow pools.\n\nAnother study in the 1990s showed that montmorillonite clay can help create RNA chains of as many as 50 nucleotides joined together spontaneously into a single RNA molecule. Later, in 2002, it was discovered that by adding montmorillonite to a solution of fatty acid micelles (lipid spheres), the clay sped up the rate of vesicle formation 100-fold.\n\nResearch has shown that some minerals can catalyze the stepwise formation of hydrocarbon tails of fatty acids from hydrogen and carbon monoxide gases—gases that may have been released from hydrothermal vents or geysers. Fatty acids of various lengths are eventually released into the surrounding water, but vesicle formation requires a higher concentration of fatty acids, so it is suggested that protocell formation started at land-bound hydrothermal vents such as geysers, mud pots, fumaroles and other geothermal features where water evaporates and concentrates the solute.\n\nAnother group suggests that primitive cells might have formed inside inorganic clay microcompartments, which can provide an ideal container for the synthesis and compartmentalization of complex organic molecules. Clay-armored \"bubbles\" form naturally when particles of montmorillonite clay collect on the outer surface of air bubbles under water. This creates a semi permeable vesicle from materials that are readily available in the environment. The authors remark that montmorillonite is known to serve as a chemical catalyst, encouraging lipids to form membranes and single nucleotides to join into strands of RNA. Primitive reproduction can be envisioned when the clay bubbles burst, releasing the lipid membrane-bound product into the surrounding medium.\n\nFor cellular organisms, the transport of specific molecules across compartmentalizing membrane barriers is essential in order to exchange content with their environment and with other individuals. For example, content exchange between individuals enables horizontal gene transfer, an important factor in the evolution of cellular life. While modern cells can rely on complicated protein machineries to catalyze these crucial processes, protocells must have accomplished this using more simple mechanisms.\n\nProtocells composed of fatty acids would have been able to easily exchange small molecules and ions with their environment. Membranes consisting of fatty acids have a relatively high permeability to molecules such as nucleoside monophosphate (NMP), nucleoside diphosphate (NDP), and nucleoside triphosphate (NTP), and may withstand millimolar concentrations of Mg. Osmotic pressure can also play a significant role regarding this passive membrane transport.\n\nEnvironmental effects have been suggested to trigger conditions under which a transport of larger molecules, such as DNA and RNA, across the membranes of protocells is possible. For example, it has been proposed that electroporation resulting from lightning strikes could enable such transport. Electroporation is the rapid increase in bilayer permeability induced by the application of a large artificial electric field across the membrane. During electroporation in laboratory procedures, the lipid molecules are not chemically altered but simply shift position, opening up a pore (hole) that acts as the conductive pathway through the bilayer as it is filled with water. Experimentally, electroporation is used to introduce hydrophilic molecules into cells. It is a particularly useful technique for large highly charged molecules such as DNA and RNA, which would never passively diffuse across the hydrophobic bilayer core. Because of this, electroporation is one of the key methods of transfection as well as bacterial transformation.\n\nA similar transfer of content across protocells and with the surrounding solution can also be caused by freezing and subsequent thawing. For example, this could occur in an environment in which day and night cycles cause recurrent freezing. Laboratory experiments have shown that such conditions allow an exchange of genetic information between populations of protocells. This can be explained by the fact that membranes are highly permeable at temperatures slightly below their phase transition temperature. If this point is reached during the freeze-thaw cycle, even large and highly charged molecules like nucleic acids can temporarily pass the protocell membrane.\n\nSome molecules or particles are too large or too hydrophilic to pass through a lipid bilayer even under these conditions, but can be moved across the membrane through fusion or budding of vesicles, events which have also been observed for freeze-thaw cycles. This may eventually have led to mechanisms that facilitate movement of molecules to the inside of the protocell (endocytosis) or to release its contents into the extracellular space (exocytosis).\n\nStarting with a technique commonly used to deposit molecules on a solid surface, Langmuir–Blodgett deposition, scientists are able to assemble phospholipid membranes of arbitrary complexity layer by layer. These artificial phospholipid membranes support functional insertion both of purified and of \"in situ\" expressed membrane proteins. The technique could help astrobiologists understand how the first living cells originated.\n\nJeewanu protocells are synthetic chemical particles that possess cell-like structure and seem to have some functional living properties. First synthesized in 1963 from simple minerals and basic organics while exposed to sunlight, it is still reported to have some metabolic capabilities, the presence of semipermeable membrane, amino acids, phospholipids, carbohydrates and RNA-like molecules. However, the nature and properties of the Jeewanu remains to be clarified.\n\nIn a similar synthesis experiment a frozen mixture of water, methanol, ammonia and carbon monoxide was exposed to ultraviolet (UV) radiation. This combination yielded large amounts of organic material that self-organised to form globules or vesicles when immersed in water. The investigating scientist considered these globules to resemble cell membranes that enclose and concentrate the chemistry of life, separating their interior from the outside world. The globules were between , or about the size of red blood cells. Remarkably, the globules fluoresced, or glowed, when exposed to UV light. Absorbing UV and converting it into visible light in this way was considered one possible way of providing energy to a primitive cell. If such globules played a role in the origin of life, the fluorescence could have been a precursor to primitive photosynthesis. Such fluorescence also provides the benefit of acting as a sunscreen, diffusing any damage that otherwise would be inflicted by UV radiation. Such a protective function would have been vital for life on the early Earth, since the ozone layer, which blocks out the sun's most destructive UV rays, did not form until after photosynthetic life began to produce oxygen.\n\nProtocell research has created controversy and opposing opinions, including critics of the vague definition of \"artificial life\". The creation of a basic unit of life is the most pressing ethical concern, although the most widespread worry about protocells is their potential threat to human health and the environment through uncontrolled replication.\n\n"}
{"id": "38884720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38884720", "title": "Sean Aaberg", "text": "Sean Aaberg\n\nSean Aaberg (born June 7, 1976) is a comics artist, conceptual artist, illustrator and magazine editor active in the Punk rock, Heavy Metal and Kustom Kulture scenes. He is known as a co-founder of \"Nonchalance\" and \"Oaklandish\". He is the editor and publisher of \"PORK\". \"PORK\"s self-description is \"rock&roll, weirdo art, bad ideas. Real American cool culture. Uncompromising. Upbeat. Free. Quarterly. Not suitable for squares\".\n\nSean Aaberg was born in Oakland, California. He is the son of Philip Aaberg and LouAnn Lucke. He grew up in Oakland, attending Bishop O'Dowd High School and briefly attended the California College of the Arts. As a kid, he liked \"anything weird, nasty and old\", including cheap magazines and bought thousands of them, he said in an interview. He and his friends read \"Mad\", drew comics, liked to listen to Cheech and Chong and the Ramones on the Dr. Demento show, and later discovered the Church of the Subgenius. He admired the movies of Ralph Bakshi. The interviewer noted that Aaberg writes in ALL CAPS. Sean founded and played drums in the Oakland-based Hardcore Punk band The Masked Men, played drums for Baltimore-based Anarcho Punk band A//Political and founded and played drums for Eugene-based Rock and Roll band The Latrines.\n\nAaberg came up in the international DIY Punk scene in the 90s doing zines and art for Punk zines such as \"Slug and Lettuce\". Aaberg has created illustrations and comics for \"Bitch\", \"Roctober\", \"Kitchen Sink\" magazine, \"BANG!\" newspaper, and \"VICE\" magazine. Aaberg is mostly known for his Weirdo Art following in the foot-steps of Ed \"Big Daddy\" Roth, Basil Wolverton and Robert Crumb. Sean has been noted for his ability to change styles and use different design languages in order to keep things lively. Such comic artists as Tim Goodyear have been published in PORK.\n\nAaberg sells his zines on the \"PORK\" website.\n\nAaberg is the designer and artist, with Eric Radey, of Dungeon Degenerates: Hand of Doom, a cooperative fantasy boardgame with a punk metal esthetic. \n\nHe is married to artist and photographer Katie Aaberg who collaborates with her husband on \"PORK\". She told an interviewer for \"Tension Magazine\" that people do not always understand their sense of humor and that they frequently receive hate mail from \"activists\" who lecture them on appropriate behavior, but \"cultural ownership\" is against their artistic vision.\n\n"}
{"id": "13013807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13013807", "title": "Selfing", "text": "Selfing\n\nSelfing or self-fertilization is the union of male and female gametes and/or nuclei from same haploid, diploid, or polyploid organism. It is an extreme degree of inbreeding.\n\nSelfing is widespread – from unicellular organisms to the most complex hermaphroditic plants and animals (especially invertebrates). In unicellular organisms such as Protozoa, selfing can occur when two individuals (or their cell nuclei) interbreed that were produced from a previous mitotic division of the same individual.\n\nAmong hermaphrodite animals there are some that regularly reproduce by self-fertilization. In others, it is a rare event; selfing in such species is more common in adverse environmental conditions, or in the absence of a partner.\n\nSelf-fertilization results in the loss of genetic variation within an individual (offspring), because many of the genetic loci that were heterozygous become homozygous. This can result in the expression of harmful recessive alleles, which can have serious consequences for the individual. The effects are most extreme when self-fertilization occurs in organisms that are usually out-crossing. After several generations, inbreeding depression is likely to purge the deleterious alleles from the population because the individuals carrying them have mostly died or failed to reproduce.\n\nIf no other effects interfere, the proportion of heterozygous loci is halved in each successive generation, as shown in the following table.\n\n\nIllustration model of the decrease in genetic variation in a population of self-fertilized organisms derived from a heterozygous individual, assuming equal fitness\n\n"}
{"id": "274806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274806", "title": "Sluagh", "text": "Sluagh\n\nIn Irish and Scottish folklore, the Sluagh (, ; modern Irish spelling Slua; English: \"horde, crowd\") were the spirits of the restless dead. Sometimes they were seen as sinners, or generally evil people who were welcome in neither heaven nor hell, nor in the Otherworld, who had also been rejected by the Celtic deities and by the earth itself. Whichever the underlying belief, they are almost always depicted as troublesome and destructive. They were seen to fly in groups like flocks of birds, coming from the west, and were known to try to enter the house of a dying person in an effort to carry the soul away with them. West-facing windows were sometimes kept closed to keep them out. Some consider the Sluagh to also carry with them the souls of innocent people who were kidnapped by these destructive spirits.\n\nLewis Spence writes in 'The Magic Arts in Celtic Britain':\n\n\"In the Western Isles of Scotland the Sluagh, or fairy host, was regarded as composed of the souls of the dead flying through the air, and the feast of the dead at Hallowe'en was likewise the festival of the fairies.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "16205921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16205921", "title": "Terroristic threat", "text": "Terroristic threat\n\nA terroristic threat is a threat to commit a crime of violence or a threat to cause bodily injury to another person and terrorization as the result of the proscribed conduct. Several U.S. states have enacted statutes which impose criminal liability for \"terroristic threatening\" or \"making a terroristic threat.\"\n\nGenerally, a terroristic threat \"is sufficiently specific where it threatens death or great bodily injury, and a threat is not insufficient simply because it does not communicate a time or precise manner of execution. Thus, a criminal statute prohibiting terroristic threatening serves to criminalize future, as well as present, death threats.\"\n\nThe courts have held that \"a threat need not take any particular form or be expressed in any particular words, and may be made by innuendo or suggestion, and that the words uttered will not be considered in a vacuum but rather in light of all the circumstances.\" A number of courts have upheld convictions under a state criminal terroristic threat statute on the basis of a single or solitary threat, a conditional threat, or a threat that some third person will take action. In several states, courts have held that a \"threatener's present inability to carry out his or her threats does not in itself remove the threats from the purview of terroristic threat or terroristic threatening statutes.\" However, \"the courts recognized that one does not violate a terroristic threat or terroristic threatening statute by making idle talk or jests which do not have a reasonable tendency to create apprehension that the speaker will act according to the threat.\" \n\nThe threat need not be communicated in person, but may be made by any means; courts have in a number of cases held that a terroristic threat statute may be violated by a threat may by telephone, by letter by communication with a third party, or by \"a nonverbal, symbolic threat which in other respects satisfies the criminal elements specified in the terroristic threat statute\" (such as the burning of a cross on the target's driveway).\n\nThe required \"mens rea\" element of the offense is generally \"that the accused have made the threat with the intent or purpose of causing fear in the victim or in reckless disregard of the risk of causing such fear.\" At least one court has specified that the \"proof of a terroristic threat is measured by an objective standard.\"\n\n\"American Law Reports\" indicates that \"the cases are in disagreement over the availability of voluntary intoxication as a defense in a terroristic threat or terroristic threatening prosecution, with intoxication being a defense where a specific criminal intent is an essential element of the offense, but not a defense where the offense is established without specific criminal intent.\"\n\nTerroristic-threat statutes have generally been upheld by the courts against constitutional challenges raising claims that such laws violate the Free Speech Clause, are impermissibly vague, or overlap with a criminal assault statute.\n\nUnder the Model Penal Code, \"a person is guilty of a felony of the third degree if he threatens to commit any crime of violence with purpose to terrorize another or to cause evacuation of a building, place of assembly, or facility of public transportation, or otherwise to cause serious public inconvenience, or in reckless disregard of the risk of causing such terror or inconvenience.\"\n\n\"Under California law, the elements of the completed crime of making threats with intent to terrorize are: (1) willfully threatening to commit a crime that will result in death or great bodily injury to another person, (2) specific intent that the statement be taken as a threat, (3) the threat was on its face and under the circumstances so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the threat, (4) the threat caused the victim to be in sustained fear for his or her own safety or for his or her immediate family's safety, and (5) the victim's fear was reasonable under the circumstances.\"\n\nIn Texas, terroristic threats are prohibited under Chapter 22 of the Texas Penal Code:\n\nSec. 22.07. TERRORISTIC THREAT. (a) A person commits an offense if he threatens to commit any offense involving violence to any person or property with intent to:\n\n makes it a class C felony, punishable by 10 years imprisonment, for someone to willfully threaten to commit a crime that will result in death or great bodily harm; the threat is made with the specific intent that it be taken as a threat; the threat is so unequivocal, unconditional, and specific as to convey a gravity of purpose and immediate prospect of execution; the threat actually causes fear in the victim; and the fear is reasonable.\n\n"}
{"id": "284301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284301", "title": "W. P. Kinsella", "text": "W. P. Kinsella\n\nWilliam Patrick \"W. P.\" Kinsella (May 25, 1935September 16, 2016) was a Canadian novelist and short story writer, known for his novel \"Shoeless Joe\" (1982), which was adapted into the movie \"Field of Dreams\" in 1989. His work often concerned baseball, First Nations people, and other Canadian issues.\n\nWilliam Patrick Kinsella was born in Edmonton, Alberta, the son of Irish Canadian parents, Olive Mary (née Elliott/Elliot), a printer, and John Matthew Kinsella, a contractor. He was raised until he was 10 years old at a homestead near Darwell, Alberta, 60 km west of the city, home-schooled by his mother and taking correspondence courses. \"I'm one of these people who woke up at age five knowing how to read and write,\" he says. When he was ten, the family moved to Edmonton. He did not go to school until grade five, and did not attend university until he was in his mid-30s. Kinsella was not exposed to literature in school, claiming in a 2010 interview, \"One Shakespeare play and one J. M. Barrie play was the total literature of my high school years.\"\n\nKinsella's literary education in his formative years came from reading and by attending all the plays at high school and any theatrical productions that made it to Edmonton. He also worked in the school library his senior year.\n\nAs an adult, he held a variety of jobs in Edmonton, including as a clerk for the government of Alberta and managing a credit bureau. In 1967, he moved to Victoria, British Columbia, running a pizza restaurant called Caesar's Italian Village and driving a taxi. Though he had been writing since he was a child (winning a YMCA contest at age 14), he began taking writing courses at the University of Victoria in 1970, receiving his Bachelor of Arts in Creative Writing there in 1974. He earned a Master of Fine Arts in English degree through the Iowa Writers' Workshop at the University of Iowa in 1978. Before becoming a professional author, he was a professor of English at the University of Calgary.\n\nAccording to the \"Canadian Encyclopedia\", W. P. Kinsella's literary output primarily consisted of two cycles of work dealing with two fictive universes: those dealing with baseball and those depicting the indigenous people of Canada. Kinsella's first published book was called \"Dance Me Outside\" (1977), which was a collection of seventeen short stories narrated by a young Cree, Silas Ermineskin, who describes life on a First Nations reserve in Kinsella's native Alberta. A later collection of similar stories, \"The Fencepost Chronicles\", earned Kinsella the Stephen Leacock Memorial Medal for Humour. Kinsella was criticized for writing from the point of view of Native people, appropriating their voices. He rejected the criticism on the grounds that a writer has the license to create anything he chooses and called the term \"cultural appropriation\" the nonsense of Eastern Canadian academics.\n\nThese stories use the ineptness of the white bureaucrats on reservations as background, and Kinsella defended the stories, saying, \"It's the oppressed and the oppressor that I write about. The way that oppressed people survive is by making fun of the people who oppress them. That is essentially what my Indian stories are all about.\" \n\nIn the field of baseball, Kinsella wrote nearly 40 short stories and three novels. \"Shoeless Joe\" (1982), his first novel, blends fantasy and magical realism to tell the story of a poor Iowa farmer who, yielding to voices in his head, builds a baseball field in his corn field that attracts the spirits of the 1919 Chicago White Sox. The \"Iowa Baseball Confederacy\" (1986), another book blending fantasy and magical realism, recounts an epic baseball game a minor league team played against the 1908 World's Champion Chicago Cubs. \"Box Socials\" (1991), an evocation of life in rural Alberta during the Great Depression and World War II, features a growing boy as its narrator and a purported local batting hero's hopes in facing a visiting major league pitcher 60 miles away in Edmonton.\n\n\"Shoeless Joe\" remains Kinsella's most famous work. The book was mildly controversial in that it used a living person, the reclusive author J.D. Salinger, as one of its main characters. Kinsella, who had never met him, created a wholly imagined character (aside from his being a recluse) based on the author of \"The Catcher in the Rye\", a book that had great meaning to him when he was a young man. To get a feel for Salinger, he re-read his body of work.\"I made sure to make him a nice character so that he couldn’t sue me.\"\n\nIn an example of metafiction, he named his protagonist in \"Shoeless Joe\" \"Ray Kinsella\", a character from Salinger's uncollected story “A Young Girl in 1941 with No Waist at All”. Salinger had also used the surname shared by writer and protagonist in \"The Catcher in the Rye\" (Holden Caulfield's friend Richard Kinsella).\n\nKnown for his litigiousness, Salinger contacted Kinsella's publisher via his attorneys to express outrage over having been portrayed in \"Shoeless Joe\". Kinsella denied that Salinger, as a writer, had any real influence on his own writing, despite rumors to the contrary (some rumors held that Kinsella had actually met Salinger in person).\n\n\"Shoeless Joe\" won Kinsella the prestigious Houghton Mifflin Literary Fellowship and the Books in Canada First Novel Award in 1982. The book garnered good reviews, sold very well, and was made into a popular movie.\n\nW. P. Kinsella's novel \"Shoeless Joe\" was made into the movie \"Field of Dreams\", starring Kevin Costner. The movie grossed nearly $65 million in the United States, and helped establish Costner as a star.\n\nKinsella's eight books of short stories about life on reserves were the basis for the 1994 movie \"Dance Me Outside\" and CBC television series \"The Rez\", both of which Kinsella considers to be of very poor quality. The collection \"Fencepost Chronicles\" won the Stephen Leacock Award for Humour in 1987. The short story \"The Last Pennant Before Armageddon\" was adapted for the stage by the Live Bait Theater in Chicago in 1990.\n\nA short story by Kinsella, \"Lieberman in Love\", was the basis for a short film that won the Academy Award for Live Action Short Film in 1996. The Oscar win came as a surprise to the author, who, watching the award telecast from home, had no idea the film had been made and released. He had not been listed in the film's credits, and was not acknowledged by director Christine Lahti in her acceptance speech. A full-page advertisement was placed in \"Variety\" apologizing to Kinsella for the error.\n\nW. P. Kinsella was involved in a car accident in 1997 which almost resulted in the end of his fiction writing career. He was struck by a car while out walking and suffered a head injury when he hit the ground. He would not publish another novel for 14 years.\n\nIn a 1999 interview with the University of Regina's student newspaper, Kinsella explained that he could no longer write as he lost his ability to concentrate. The injury also robbed him of his senses of taste and smell. Kinsella said he went from being a Type A personality to Type B. After the accident, he didn't feel like doing the things he had done in his normal routine and didn't care. He did write book reviews to keep his name before the public.\n\nKinsella's 14-year-long exit from the world of published fiction also may have had economic roots. He was cited as an archetypical victim of changes in the publishing industry during the late 1980s, which accelerated during the 1990s, that made it more difficult for well-regarded \"mid-list\" writers such as Kinsella to remain in print. Changes to the U.S. tax code effected by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 discouraged publishers from maintaining inventories of titles in their back lists, as they were taxed on warehoused books.\n\nThis led to the thinning out of back lists and the more rapid remaindering of books. The publishing industry underwent a wave of consolidation in the 1990s, as publishers were acquired by big communications companies seeking marketing synergies. The new publishing houses poured more capital into higher-paid, best-selling writers and celebrities who could guarantee \"hit\" books as well as media tie-in novels. Mid-list writers with first-rate reputations but mid-range, non-spectacular sales suffered accordingly as they were ignored by the new publishing conglomerates.\n\nCommenting about the state of the book industry in a 2010 interview with \"Maclean's Magazine\", Kinsella said, \"The publishing industry today is just—I couldn’t break into the market today if I was just starting out. The publishing industry is down to a few dozen mainly adventure and romance writers. There’s still some academic fiction out there, but it has an incredibly small audience. Nobody really cares about it.\"\nOn September 1, 2011, 'Winnipeg, Manitoba's Enfield and Wizenty, a small press specializing in limited edition hardcover books, released Kinsella's first published work in thirteen years, \"Butterfly Winter\". The unpublished manuscript of the novel had won this publisher's Colophon Prize the preceding March. The release was backed up by a \"modest\" book tour, according to the publisher.\n\nThe story of Julio and Esteban Pimental, twins whose divine destiny for baseball begins with games of catch in the womb, marks a return to form, combining his long-held passions of baseball and magical realism. The University of Toronto Press released a trade hardcover edition on October 1. A short story of Kinsella's by the same title was included in his 1988 collection, \"Red Wolf, Red Wolf\" published by Totem Press(Collins Publishers).\n\nA noted tournament Scrabble player, Kinsella became more involved with the game after being disillusioned by the 1994 Major League Baseball strike. He spent his final years in Yale, British Columbia, with his fourth wife, Barbara, occasionally writing articles for various newspapers.\n\nKinsella, who had suffered from diabetes for decades, elected to die with a physician's assistance on September 16, 2016.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55945440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55945440", "title": "Ángela Ginard Martí", "text": "Ángela Ginard Martí\n\nBlessed Ángela Ginard Martí (3 April 1894 – 26 August 1936) – in religious Maria de los Ángeles – was a Spanish Roman Catholic professed religious from the Zelatrices of the Eucharistic Devotion. Ginard took care of her siblings growing up and did embroidering to support them alongside two older sisters. But the experience at her First Communion and the example of her two nun aunts caused her to think about entering the religious life as a nun. Ginard entered a religious order in 1921 having her parents give their assent (her parents once refused this request in 1914) and she set about tasks such as embroidering cloth for the altar and preparing bread for hosts.\n\nGinard was killed during the onslaught of the Spanish Civil War a month after having gone into hiding when the conflict broke out. Her remains were discovered a short while later for burial.\n\nThe beatification for the slain nun was initiated in the 1980s and culminated in 2005 after she was beatified in Saint Peter's Basilica.\n\nÁngela Ginard Martí was born on 3 April 1894 in Llucmajor as the third of nine children to Sebastián Ginard García and Margarita Martí Canals. Her father's retirement from the Civil Guard saw the Ginard's move to Palma de Mallorca when she was sixteen where the three eldest sisters (including herself) helped around the house and learnt to embroider and make hats.\n\nIt was after her First Communion on 14 April 1905 that she had the desire to consecrate herself to Jesus Christ and realized that it would be through the religious life as a nun. It was also after this experience that she made frequent visits to the tabernacle where she would kneel in reflection before Him to further discern her vocation and to strengthen her own faith. Even the example of her two maternal aunts who were nuns had a profound effect on her growing up. But she admired one of those aunts in particular due to the contemplative life she led in her convent. Her sisters often went out with friends to the cinema or other social engagements while she preferred to remain at home to instruct her other siblings in catechism and the lives of the saints.\n\nIn 1914 she asked her parents for permission to enter the convent her aunt was stationed in but her parents (her father in particular) opposed the idea and advised her to wait and think more on it. Ginard entered the Zelatrices of the Eucharistic Devotion in Palma de Mallorca on 26 November 1921 and assumed the religious name \"Maria de los Ángeles\"; she assumed the habit in May 1922 and then served as a postulant for six months before commencing her period of novitiate from 1922 to 1923. It was in 1923 that she made her initial profession and renewed it in 1926 (then being moved to the house in Madrid) before making her solemn profession later in 1929 in Barcelona where she was stationed until 1932 when she returned to Madrid. Ginard did embroidering for the cloths used for the altar and also prepared the bread that would be made into the Eucharistic hosts.\n\nBut the conflict forced nuns and priests alike to go underground due to the danger against them so the nuns of her convent were forced on 20 July 1936 to disperse while using disguises to flee. During the conflict she hid in an apartment but was arrested during the afternoon on 25 August 1936. The guards who raided the apartment accused a woman of being another nun but Ginard stepped forward to confirm that she was the sole nun living in the apartment. The guards escorted her outside to a waiting car and drove off with her. Ginard was shot dead in a park either in the afternoon or evening on 26 August 1936 and her remains were left at the site of the killing. The next morning the sisters were looking through files at a government building and found pictures of her corpse. The sisters went to the site to reclaim her remains for a proper burial. Her remains were exhumed moved on 20 May 1941 and again in 1984 to the convent where she lived.\n\nThe beatification process opened under Pope John Paul II on 6 February 1987 after the Congregation for the Causes of Saints issued the edict declaring \"nihil obstat\" (no objections) and titled Ginard as a Servant of God. The diocesan process was held in Madrid with Cardinal Ángel Suquía Goicoechea inaugurating the investigation on 28 April 1987 and later closing on 23 March 1990; the C.C.S. later validated this process on 18 October 1991 and received the Positio dossier from the postulation in 1993 for additional assessment.\n\nTheologians assessed and approved the cause on 11 November 2003 as did the cardinal and bishop members of the C.C.S. on 17 February 2004. John Paul II granted the final approval needed for the cause on 19 April 2004 and confirmed that Ginard would soon be beatified after determining that she had died \"in odium fidei\" (in hatred of the faith) meaning no miracle was required for beatification.\n\nHer beatification had been scheduled for 24 April 2005 but the death of John Paul II weeks earlier meant that the beatification was pushed back. The beatification was later celebrated on 29 October 2005 in Saint Peter's Basilica with Cardinal José Saraiva Martins presiding on the behalf of Pope Benedict XVI.\n\n"}
