{"id": "1173696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1173696", "title": "Austro-Slavism", "text": "Austro-Slavism\n\nAustro-Slavism was a political concept and program aimed to solve problems of Slavic peoples in the Austrian Empire.\n\nIt was most influential among Czech liberals around the middle of the 19th century. First proposed by Karel Havlíček Borovský in 1846, as an opposition to the concept of pan-Slavism, it was further developed into a complete political program by Czech politician František Palacký. Austroslavism also found some support in other Slavic nations in the Austrian Empire, especially the Poles, Slovenes, and Croats.\n\nAustro-Slavism envisioned peaceful cooperation between the smaller Slavic nations of Central Europe within the Habsburg Monarchy not dominated by German-speaking elites. Palacký proposed a federation of eight national regions, with significant self-governance. After the suppression of the Czech revolution in Prague in June 1848, the program became irrelevant. The Austrian Empire transformed into Austria-Hungary (1867), honouring Hungarian, but not Slavic demands as part of the \"Ausgleich\". This further weakened the position of Austro-Slavism.\n\nAs a political concept, Austro-Slavism persisted until the fall of the Austrian-Hungarian Empire in 1918. The collapse of Austria-Hungary owed a great deal to that nation's failure to recognise Slavic demands. Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, later to become the first President of Czechoslovakia, convinced US President Woodrow Wilson during the First World War that the Slavic peoples of Austria need to be liberated, leading to the promulgation of the Fourteen Points, and ultimate dissolution of the former Austrian Empire. Autroslavism appeared in its last iteration around this time, in the form of several proposals, lacking in influence, to federalise Austria-Hungary (such as the abortive United States of Greater Austria plan).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "69830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69830", "title": "Bartolomé de las Casas", "text": "Bartolomé de las Casas\n\nBartolomé de las Casas (;  1484 – 18 July 1566) was a 16th-century Spanish colonist who acted as a historian and social reformer before becoming a Dominican friar. He was appointed as the first resident Bishop of Chiapas, and the first officially appointed \"Protector of the Indians\". His extensive writings, the most famous being \"A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\" and \"Historia de Las Indias\", chronicle the first decades of colonization of the West Indies. He described the atrocities committed by the colonizers against the indigenous peoples.\n\nArriving as one of the first Spanish (and European) settlers in the Americas, Las Casas initially participated in, but eventually felt compelled to oppose the abuses committed by colonists against the Native Americans. As a result, in 1515 he gave up his Indian slaves and \"encomienda\", and advocated, before King Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, on behalf of rights for the natives. In his early writings, he advocated the use of African slaves instead of Natives in the West-Indian colonies. In the 20th century, he has been criticized for being among the founders of the transatlantic slave trade. Later in life, he retracted this position, as he regarded all forms of slavery as equally wrong. In 1522, he tried to launch a new kind of peaceful colonialism on the coast of Venezuela, but this venture failed. Las Casas entered the Dominican Order and became a friar, leaving public life for a decade. He traveled to Central America, acting as a missionary among the Maya of Guatemala and participating in debates among colonial churchmen about how best to bring the natives to the Christian faith.\n\nTraveling back to Spain to recruit more missionaries, he continued lobbying for the abolition of the \"encomienda\", gaining an important victory by the passage of the New Laws in 1542. He was appointed Bishop of Chiapas, but served only for a short time before he was forced to return to Spain because of resistance to the New Laws by the \"encomenderos\", and conflicts with Spanish settlers because of his pro-Indian policies and activist religious stance. He served in the Spanish court for the remainder of his life; there he held great influence over Indies-related issues. In 1550, he participated in the Valladolid debate, in which Juan Ginés de Sepúlveda argued that the Indians were less than human and required Spanish masters in order to become civilized. Las Casas maintained that they were fully human and that forcefully subjugating them was unjustifiable.\n\nBartolomé de las Casas spent 50 years of his life actively fighting slavery and the colonial abuse of indigenous peoples, especially by trying to convince the Spanish court to adopt a more humane policy of colonization. Unlike other priests who sought to destroy the indigenous peoples' native books and writings, he strictly opposed this action. Although he failed to save the indigenous peoples of the Western Indies, his efforts did result in improvement of the legal status of the natives, and in an increased colonial focus on the ethics of colonialism. Las Casas is often considered to be one of the first advocates for a universal conception of human dignity (later human rights).\n\nBartolomé de las Casas was born in Seville in 1484, on 11 November. For centuries, Las Casas's birthdate was believed to be 1474; however, in the 1970s, scholars conducting archival work demonstrated this to be an error, after uncovering in the \"Archivo General de Indias\" records of a contemporary lawsuit that demonstrated he was born a decade later than had been supposed. Subsequent biographers and authors have generally accepted and reflected this revision. His father, Pedro de las Casas, a merchant, descended from one of the families that had migrated from France to found the town of Seville; his family also spelled the name \"Casaus\". According to one biographer, his family were of converso heritage, although others refer to them as ancient Christians who migrated from France. Following the testimony of Las Casas's biographer Antonio de Remesal, tradition has it that Las Casas studied a \"licentiate\" at Salamanca, but this is never mentioned in Las Casas's own writings. As a young man, in 1507, he journeyed to Rome where he observed the Festival of Flutes.\n\nWith his father, Las Casas immigrated to the island of Hispaniola in 1502 on the expedition of Nicolás de Ovando. Las Casas became a \"hacendado\" and slave owner, receiving a piece of land in the province of Cibao. He participated in slave raids and military expeditions against the native Taíno population of Hispaniola. In 1510, he was ordained a priest, the first one to be ordained in the Americas.\n\nIn September 1510, a group of Dominican friars arrived in Santo Domingo led by Pedro de Córdoba; appalled by the injustices they saw committed by the slaveowners against the Indians, they decided to deny slave owners the right to confession. Las Casas was among those denied confession for this reason. In December 1511, a Dominican preacher Fray Antonio de Montesinos preached a fiery sermon that implicated the colonists in the genocide of the native peoples. He is said to have preached, \"Tell me by what right of justice do you hold these Indians in such a cruel and horrible servitude? On what authority have you waged such detestable wars against these people who dealt quietly and peacefully on their own lands? Wars in which you have destroyed such an infinite number of them by homicides and slaughters never heard of before. Why do you keep them so oppressed and exhausted, without giving them enough to eat or curing them of the sicknesses they incur from the excessive labor you give them, and they die, or rather you kill them, in order to extract and acquire gold every day.\" Las Casas himself argued against the Dominicans in favour of the justice of the encomienda. The colonists, led by Diego Columbus, dispatched a complaint against the Dominicans to the King, and the Dominicans were recalled from Hispaniola.\n\nIn 1513, as a chaplain, Las Casas participated in Diego Velázquez de Cuéllar's and Pánfilo de Narváez' conquest of Cuba. He participated in campaigns in Bayamo and Camagüey and in the massacre of Hatuey. He witnessed many atrocities committed by Spaniards against the native Ciboney and Guanahatabey peoples. He later wrote: \"I saw here cruelty on a scale no living being has ever seen or expects to see.\" Las Casas and his friend Pablo de la Rentería were awarded a joint encomienda which was rich in gold and slaves, located on the Arimao River close to Cienfuegos. During the next years, he divided his time between being a colonist and his duties as an ordained priest.\n\nIn 1514, Las Casas was studying a passage in the book Ecclesiasticus (Sirach) 34:18–22 for a Pentecost sermon and pondering its meaning. Las Casas was finally convinced that all the actions of the Spanish in the New World had been illegal and that they constituted a great injustice. He made up his mind to give up his slaves and encomienda, and started to preach that other colonists should do the same. When his preaching met with resistance, he realized that he would have to go to Spain to fight there against the enslavement and abuse of the native people. Aided by Pedro de Córdoba and accompanied by Antonio de Montesinos, he left for Spain in September 1515, arriving in Seville in November.\n\nLas Casas arrived in Spain with the plan of convincing the King to end the encomienda system. This was easier thought than done, as most of the people who were in positions of power were themselves either encomenderos or otherwise profiting from the influx of wealth from the Indies. In the winter of 1515, King Ferdinand lay ill in Plasencia, but Las Casas was able to get a letter of introduction to the Majesty from the Archbishop of Seville, Diego de Deza. On Christmas Eve of 1515, Las Casas met the Monarch and discussed the situation in the Indies with him; the King agreed to hear him out in more detail at a later date. While waiting, Las Casas produced a report that he presented to the Bishop of Burgos, Juan Rodríguez de Fonseca, and secretary Lope Conchillos, who were functionaries in complete charge of the Royal policies regarding the Indies; both were encomenderos. They were not impressed by his account, and Las Casas had to find a different avenue of change. He put his faith in his coming audience with the King, but it never came, for King Ferdinand died on January 25, 1516. The regency of Castile passed on to Ximenez Cisneros and Adrian of Utrecht who were guardians for the under-age Prince Charles. Las Casas was resolved to see Prince Charles who resided in Flanders, but on his way there he passed Madrid and delivered to the regents a written account of the situation in the Indies and his proposed remedies. This was his \"Memorial de Remedios para Las Indias\" of 1516. In this early work, Las Casas advocated importing Black slaves from Africa to relieve the suffering Indians, a stance he later retracted, becoming an advocate for the Africans in the colonies as well. This shows that Las Casas's first concern was not to end slavery as an institution, but to end the physical abuse and suffering of the Indians. In keeping with the legal and moral doctrine of the time Las Casas believed that slavery could be justified if it was the result of Just War, and at the time he assumed that the enslavement of Africans was justified. Worried by the visions that Las Casas had drawn up of the situation in the Indies, Cardinal Cisneros decided to send a group of Hieronymite friars to take over the government of the islands.\n\nThree Hieronymite friars, Luis de Figueroa, Bernardino de Manzanedo and Alonso de Santo Domingo, were selected as commissioners to take over the authority of the Indies. Las Casas had a considerable part in selecting them and writing the instructions under which their new government would be instated, largely based on Las Casas's \"memorial\". Las Casas himself was granted the official title of Protector of the Indians, and given a yearly salary of one hundred pesos. In this new office Las Casas was expected to serve as an advisor to the new governors with regard to Indian issues, to speak the case of the Indians in court and send reports back to Spain. Las Casas and the commissioners traveled to Santo Domingo on separate ships, and Las Casas arrived two weeks later than the Hieronimytes. During this time the Hieronimytes had time to form a more pragmatic view of the situation than the one advocated by Las Casas; their position was precarious as every encomendero on the Islands was fiercely against any attempts to curtail their use of native labour. Consequently, the commissioners were unable to take any radical steps towards improving the situation of the natives. They did revoke some encomiendas from Spaniards, especially those who were living in Spain and not on the islands themselves; they even repossessed the encomienda of Fonseca, the Bishop of Burgos. They also carried out an inquiry into the Indian question at which all the encomenderos asserted that the Indians were quite incapable of living freely without their supervision. Las Casas was disappointed and infuriated. When he accused the Hieronymites of being complicit in kidnapping Indians, the relationship between Las Casas and the commissioners broke down. Las Casas had become a hated figure by Spaniards all over the Islands, and he had to seek refuge in the Dominican monastery. The Dominicans had been the first to indict the encomenderos, and they continued to chastise them and refuse the absolution of confession to slave owners, and even stated that priests who took their confession were committing a mortal sin. In May 1517, Las Casas was forced to travel back to Spain to denounce to the regent the failure of the Hieronymite reforms. Only after Las Casas had left did the Hieronymites begin to congregate Indians into towns similar to what Las Casas had wanted.\n\nWhen he arrived in Spain, his former protector, regent and Cardinal Ximenez Cisneros, was ill and had become tired of Las Casas's tenacity. Las Casas resolved to meet instead with the young King Charles I. Ximenez died on November 8, and the young King arrived in Valladolid on November 25, 1517. Las Casas managed to secure the support of the King's Flemish courtiers, including the powerful Chancellor Jean de la Sauvage. Las Casas's influence turned the favor of the court against Secretary Conchillos and Bishop Fonseca. Sauvage spoke highly of Las Casas to the King, who appointed Las Casas and Sauvage to write a new plan for reforming the governmental system of the Indies.\n\nLas Casas suggested a plan where the encomienda would be abolished and Indians would be congregated into self-governing townships to become tribute-paying vassals of the King. He still suggested that the loss of Indian labor for the colonists could be replaced by allowing importation of African slaves. Another important part of the plan was to introduce a new kind of sustainable colonization, and Las Casas advocated supporting the migration of Spanish peasants to the Indies where they would introduce small-scale farming and agriculture, a kind of colonization that didn't rely on resource depletion and Indian labor. Las Casas worked to recruit a large number of peasants who would want to travel to the Islands, where they would be given lands to farm, cash advances, and the tools and resources they needed to establish themselves there. The recruitment drive was difficult, and during the process the power relation shifted at court when Chancellor Sauvage, Las Casas's main supporter, unexpectedly died. In the end a much smaller number of peasant families were sent than originally planned, and they were supplied with insufficient provisions and no support secured for their arrival. Those who survived the journey were ill-received, and had to work hard even to survive in the hostile colonies. Las Casas was devastated by the tragic result of his peasant migration scheme, which he felt had been thwarted by his enemies. He decided instead to undertake a personal venture which would not rely on the support of others, and fought to win a land grant on the American mainland which was in its earliest stage of colonization.\n\nFollowing a suggestion by his friend and mentor Pedro de Córdoba, Las Casas petitioned a land grant to be allowed to establish a settlement in northern Venezuela at Cumaná. Founded in 1515, there was already a small Franciscan monastery in Cumana, and a Dominican one at Chiribichi, but the monks there were being harassed by Spaniards operating slave raids from the nearby Island of Cubagua. In order to make the proposal palatable to the King, Las Casas had to incorporate the prospect of profits for the royal treasury. He suggested fortifying the northern coast of Venezuela, establishing ten royal forts to protect the Indians and starting up a system of trade in gold and pearls. All the Indian slaves of the New World should be brought to live in these towns and become tribute paying subjects to the King. In order to secure the grant Las Casas had to go through a long fight in court against Bishop Fonseca and his supporters Gonzalo de Oviedo and Bishop Quevedo of Tierra Firme. Las Casas's supporters were Diego Columbus and the new chancellor Gattinara. Las Casas's enemies slandered him to the King, accusing him of planning to escape with the money to Genoa or Rome. In 1520 Las Casas's concession was finally granted, but it was a much smaller grant than he had initially proposed; he was also denied the possibilities of extracting gold and pearls, which made it difficult for him to find investors for the venture. Las Casas committed himself to producing 15,000 ducats of annual revenue, increasing to 60,000 after ten years, and to erecting three Christian towns of at least 40 settlers each. Some privileges were also granted to the initial 50 shareholders in Las Casas's scheme. The King also promised not to give any encomienda grants in Las Casas's area. That said, finding fifty men willing to invest 200 ducats each and three years of unpaid work proved impossible for Las Casas. In the end, he ended up leaving in November 1520 with just a small group of peasants, paying for the venture with money borrowed from his brother in-law.\n\nArriving in Puerto Rico, in January 1521, he received the terrible news that the Dominican convent at Chiribichi had been sacked by Indians, and that the Spaniards of the islands had launched a punitive expedition, led by Gonzalo de Ocampo, into the very heart of the territory that Las Casas wanted to colonize peacefully. The Indians had been provoked to attack the settlement of the monks because of the repeated slave raids by Spaniards operating from Cubagua. As Ocampo's ships began returning with slaves from the land Las Casas had been granted, he went to Hispaniola to complain to the Audiencia. After several months of negotiations Las Casas set sail alone; the peasants he had brought had deserted, and he arrived in his colony already ravaged by Spaniards.\n\nLas Casas worked there in adverse conditions for the following months, being constantly harassed by the Spanish pearl fishers of Cubagua island who traded slaves for alcohol with the natives. Early in 1522 Las Casas left the settlement to complain to the authorities. While he was gone the native Caribs attacked the settlement of Cumaná, burned it to the ground and killed four of Las Casas's men. He returned to Hispaniola in January 1522, and heard the news of the massacre. The rumours even included him among the dead. To make matters worse, his detractors used the event as evidence of the need to pacify the Indians using military means. The tragic outcome of Las Casas's great mainland adventure made him turn his life in a new direction.\n\nDevastated, Las Casas reacted by entering the Dominican monastery of Santa Cruz in Santo Domingo as a novice in 1522 and finally taking holy vows as a Dominican friar in 1523. There he continued his theological studies, being particularly attracted to Thomist philosophy, and there is little information about his activities in the following ten years. He oversaw the construction of a monastery in Puerto Plata on the north coast of Hispaniola, subsequently serving as prior of the convent. In 1527 he began working on his \"History of the Indies\" in order to report many of the experiences he had witnessed at first hand in the conquest and colonization of New Spain. In 1531 he wrote a letter to Garcia Manrique, Count of Osorno, protesting again the mistreatment of the Indians and advocating a return to his original reform plan of 1516. In 1531 a complaint was sent by the encomenderos of Hispaniola that Las Casas was again accusing them of mortal sins from the pulpit. In 1533 he contributed to the establishment of a peace treaty between the Spanish and the rebel Taíno band of chief Enriquillo. In 1534 Las Casas made an attempt to travel to Peru to observe the first stages of conquest of that region by Francisco Pizarro. His party made it as far as Panama, but had to turn back to Nicaragua due to adverse weather. Lingering for a while in the Dominican convent of Granada, he got into conflict with Rodrigo de Contreras, Governor of Nicaragua, when Las Casas vehemently opposed slaving expeditions by the Governor. In 1536 Las Casas followed a number of friars to Guatemala, where they began to prepare to undertake a mission among the Maya Indians. They stayed in the convent founded some years earlier by Fray Domingo Betanzos and studied the K'iche' language with Bishop Francisco Marroquín, before traveling into the interior region called Tuzulutlan, \"The Land of War\", in 1537.\n\nAlso in 1536, before venturing into Tuzulutlan, Las Casas went to Oaxaca, Mexico, to participate in a series of discussions and debates among the bishops of the Dominican and Franciscan orders. The two orders had very different approaches to the conversion of the Indians. The Franciscans used a method of mass conversion, sometimes baptizing many thousands of Indians in a day. This method was championed by prominent Franciscans such as Toribio de Benavente, known as \"Motolinia\", and Las Casas made many enemies among the Franciscans for arguing that conversions made without adequate understanding were invalid. Las Casas wrote a treatise called \"De unico vocationis modo\" (On the Only Way of Conversion) based on the missionary principles he had used in Guatemala. Motolinia would later be a fierce critic of Las Casas, accusing him of being all talk and no action when it came to converting the Indians. As a direct result of the debates between the Dominicans and Franciscans and spurred on by Las Casas's treatise, Pope Paul III promulgated the Bull \"Sublimis Deus,\" which stated that the Indians were rational beings and should be brought peacefully to the faith as such.\n\nLas Casas returned to Guatemala in 1537 wanting to employ his new method of conversion based on two principles: 1) to preach the Gospel to all men and treat them as equals, and 2) to assert that conversion must be voluntary and based on knowledge and understanding of the Faith. It was important for Las Casas that this method be tested without meddling from secular colonists, so he chose a territory in the heart of Guatemala where there were no previous colonies and where the natives were considered fierce and war-like. Because of the fact that the land had not been possible to conquer by military means, the governor of Guatemala, Alonso de Maldonado, agreed to sign a contract promising that if the venture was successful he would not establish any new encomiendas in the area. Las Casas's group of friars established a Dominican presence in Rabinal, Sacapulas and Cobán. Through the efforts of Las Casas's missionaries the so-called \"Land of War\" came to be called \"Verapaz\", \"True Peace\". Las Casas's strategy was to teach Christian songs to merchant Indian Christians who then ventured into the area. In this way he was successful in converting several native chiefs, among them those of Atitlán and Chichicastenango, and in building several churches in the territory named Alta Verapaz. These congregated a group of Christian Indians in the location of what is now the town of Rabinal. In 1538 Las Casas was recalled from his mission by Bishop Marroquín who wanted him to go to Mexico and then on to Spain in order to seek more Dominicans to assist in the mission. Las Casas left Guatemala for Mexico, where he stayed for more than a year before setting out for Spain in 1540.\n\nIn Spain, Las Casas started securing official support for the Guatemalan mission, and he managed to get a royal decree forbidding secular intrusion into the Verapaces for the following five years. He also informed the Theologians of Salamanca, led by Francisco de Vitoria, of the mass baptism practiced by the Franciscans, resulting in a dictum condemning the practice as sacrilegious.\n\nBut apart from the clerical business, Las Casas had also traveled to Spain for his own purpose: to continue the struggle against the colonists' mistreatment of the Indians. The encomienda had, in fact, legally been abolished in 1523, but it had been reinstituted in 1526, and in 1530 a general ordinance against slavery was reversed by the Crown. For this reason it was a pressing matter for Bartolomé de las Casas to plead once again for the Indians with Charles V who was by now Holy Roman Emperor and no longer a boy. He wrote a letter asking for permission to stay in Spain a little longer in order to argue for the Emperor that conversion and colonization were best achieved by peaceful means.\n\nWhen the hearings started in 1542, Las Casas presented a narrative of atrocities against the natives of the Indies that would later be published in 1552 as \"Brevísima relación de la destrucción de las Indias\". Before a council consisting of Cardinal García de Loaysa, the Count of Osorno, Bishop Fuenleal and several members of the Council of the Indies, Las Casas argued that the only solution to the problem was to remove all Indians from the care of secular Spaniards, by abolishing the encomienda system and putting them instead directly under the Crown as royal tribute-paying subjects. On November 20, 1542, the Emperor signed the New Laws abolishing the encomiendas and removing certain officials from the Council of the Indies. The New Laws made it illegal to use Indians as carriers, except where no other transport was available, it prohibited all taking of Indians as slaves, and it instated a gradual abolition of the encomienda system, with each encomienda reverting to the Crown at the death of its holders. It also exempted the few surviving Indians of Hispaniola, Cuba, Puerto Rico and Jamaica from tribute and all requirements of personal service. However, the reforms were so unpopular back in the New World that riots broke out and threats were made against Las Casas's life. The Viceroy of New Spain, himself an encomendero, decided not to implement the laws in his domain, and instead sent a party to Spain to argue against the laws on behalf of the encomenderos. Las Casas himself was also not satisfied with the laws, as they were not drastic enough and the encomienda system was going to function for many years still under the gradual abolition plan. He drafted a suggestion for an amendment arguing that the laws against slavery were formulated in such a way that it presupposed that violent conquest would still be carried out, and he encouraged once again beginning a phase of peaceful colonization by peasants instead of soldiers.\n\nBefore Las Casas returned to Spain, he was also appointed as Bishop of Chiapas, a newly established diocese of which he took possession in 1545 upon his return to the New World. He was consecrated in the Dominican Church of San Pablo on March 30, 1544. As Archbishop Loaysa strongly disliked Las Casas, the ceremony was officiated by Loaysa's nephew, Diego de Loaysa, Bishop of Modruš, with Pedro Torres, Titular Bishop of \"Arbanum\", and Cristóbal de Pedraza, Bishop of Comayagua, as co-consecrators. As a bishop Las Casas was involved in frequent conflicts with the encomenderos and secular laity of his diocese: among the landowners there was the conquistador Bernal Díaz del Castillo. In a pastoral letter issued on March 20, 1545, Las Casas refused absolution to slave owners and encomenderos even on their death bed, unless all their slaves had been set free and their property returned to them. Las Casas furthermore threatened that anyone who mistreated Indians within his jurisdiction would be excommunicated. He also came into conflict with the Bishop of Guatemala Francisco Marroquín, to whose jurisdiction the diocese had previously belonged. To Las Casas's dismay Bishop Marroquín openly defied the New Laws. While bishop, Las Casas was the principal consecrator of Antonio de Valdivieso, Bishop of Nicaragua (1544).\n\nThe New Laws were finally repealed on October 20, 1545, and riots broke out against Las Casas, with shots being fired against him by angry colonists. After a year he had made himself so unpopular among the Spaniards of the area that he had to leave. Having been summoned to a meeting among the bishops of New Spain to be held in Mexico City on January 12, 1546, he left his diocese, never to return. At the meeting, probably after lengthy reflection, and realizing that the New Laws were lost in Mexico, Las Casas presented a moderated view on the problems of confession and restitution of property, Archbishop Juan de Zumárraga of Mexico and Bishop Julián Garcés of Puebla agreed completely with his new moderate stance, Bishop Vasco de Quiroga of Michoacán had minor reservations, and Bishops Francisco Marroquín of Guatemala and Juan Lopez de Zárate of Oaxaca did not object. This resulted in a new resolution to be presented to viceroy Mendoza. His last act as Bishop of Chiapas was writing a \"confesionario\", a manual for the administration of the sacrament of confession in his diocese, still refusing absolution to unrepentant encomenderos. Las Casas appointed a vicar for his diocese and set out for Europe in December 1546, arriving in Lisbon in April 1547 and in Spain on November 1547.\n\nLas Casas returned to Spain, leaving behind many conflicts and unresolved issues. Arriving in Spain he was met by a barrage of accusations, many of them based on his Confesionario and its 12 rules, which many of his opponents found to be in essence a denial of the legitimacy of Spanish rule of its colonies, and hence a form of treason. The Crown had for example received a fifth of the large number of slaves taken in the recent Mixtón War, and so could not be held clean of guilt under Las Casas's strict rules. In 1548 the Crown decreed that all copies of Las Casas's Confesionario be burnt, and his Franciscan adversary, Motolinia obliged and sent back a report to Spain. Las Casas defended himself by writing two treatises on the \"Just Title\" – arguing that the only legality with which the Spaniards could claim titles over realms in the New World was through peaceful proselytizing. All warfare was illegal and unjust and only through the papal mandate of peacefully bringing Christianity to heathen peoples could \"Just Titles\" be acquired.\n\nAs a part of Las Casas's defense by offense, he had to argue against Juan Ginés de Sepúlveda. Sepúlveda was a doctor of theology and law who, in his book \"Democrates Alter, sive de justis causis apud Indos\" (Another Democrates /or A New Democrates, or on the Just Causes of War against the Indians) had argued that some native peoples were incapable of ruling themselves and should be pacified forcefully. The book was deemed unsound for publication by the theologians of Salamanca and Alcalá for containing unsound doctrine, but the pro-encomendero faction seized on Sepúlveda as their intellectual champion.\n\nIn order to settle the issues, a formal debate was organized, the famous Valladolid debate, which took place in 1550–51 with Sepúlveda and Las Casas each presenting their arguments in front of a council of jurists and theologians. First Sepúlveda read the conclusions of his \"Democrates Alter\", and then the council listened to Las Casas read his counterarguments in the form of an \"Apología\". Sepúlveda argued that the subjugation of certain Indians was warranted because of their sins against Natural Law; that their low level of civilization required civilized masters to maintain social order; that they should be made Christian and that this in turn required them to be pacified; and that only the Spanish could defend weak Indians against the abuses of the stronger ones. Las Casas countered that the scriptures did not in fact support war against all heathens, only against certain Canaanite tribes; that the Indians were not at all uncivilized nor lacking social order; that peaceful mission was the only true way of converting the natives; and finally that some weak Indians suffering at the hands of stronger ones was preferable to all Indians suffering at the hands of Spaniards.\n\nThe judge, Fray Domingo de Soto, summarised the arguments. Sepúlveda addressed Las Casas's arguments with twelve refutations, which were again countered by Las Casas. The judges then deliberated on the arguments presented for several months before coming to a verdict. The verdict was inconclusive, and both debaters claimed that they had won.\n\nIn 1552, Las Casas published \"A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\". This book, written a decade earlier and sent to the attention of then-prince Philip II of Spain, contained accounts of the abuses committed by some Spaniards against Native Americans during the early stages of colonization. In 1555 his old Franciscan adversary Toribio de Benavente Motolinia wrote a letter in which he described Las Casas as an ignorant, arrogant troublemaker. Benavente described indignantly how Las Casas had once denied baptism to an aging Indian who had walked many leagues to receive it, only on the grounds that he did not believe that the man had received sufficient doctrinal instruction. This letter, which reinvoked the old conflict over the requirements for the sacrament of baptism between the two orders, was intended to bring Las Casas in disfavour. However, it did not succeed.\n\nHaving resigned the Bishopric of Chiapas, Las Casas spent the rest of his life working closely with the imperial court in matters relating to the Indies. In 1551 he rented a cell at the College of San Gregorio, where he lived with his assistant and friend Fray Rodrigo de Ladrada. He continued working as a kind of procurator for the natives of the Indies, many of whom directed petitions to him to speak to the Emperor on their behalf. Sometimes indigenous nobility even related their cases to him in Spain, for example, the Nahua noble Francisco Tenamaztle from Nochistlán. His influence at court was so great that some even considered that he had the final word in choosing the members of the Council of the Indies.\n\nOne matter in which he invested much effort was the political situation of the Viceroyalty of Peru. In Peru, power struggles between conquistadors and the viceroy became an open civil war in which the conquistadors led by Gonzalo Pizarro rebelled against the New Laws and defeated and executed the viceroy Blasco Núñez Vela in 1546. The Emperor sent Pedro de la Gasca, a friend of Las Casas, to reinstate the rule of law, and he in turn defeated Pizarro. In order to restabilize the political situation the encomenderos started pushing not only for the repeal of the New Laws, but for turning the encomiendas into perpetual patrimony of the encomenderos – the worst possible outcome from Las Casas's point of view. The encomenderos offered to buy the rights to the encomiendas from the crown, and Charles V was inclined to accept since his wars had left him in deep economic troubles. Las Casas worked hard to convince the king that it would be a bad economic decision, that it would return the viceroyalty to the brink of open rebellion, and could result in the crown losing the colony entirely. The Emperor, probably because of the doubts caused by Las Casas's arguments, never took a final decision on the issue of the encomiendas.\n\nIn 1561, he finished his \"Historia General de las Indias\" and signed it over to the College of San Gregorio, stipulating that it could not be published until after forty years. In fact it was not published for 314 years, finally being done so in 1875. He also had to repeatedly defend himself against accusations of treason: someone, possibly Sepúlveda, denounced him to the Spanish Inquisition, but nothing came from the case. Las Casas also appeared as a witness in the case of the Inquisition against his friend Archbishop Bartolomé Carranza de Miranda, who had been falsely accused of heresy. In 1565 he wrote his last will, signing over his immense library to the college. Bartolomé de Las Casas died on July 18, 1566, in Madrid.\n\nThe text, written 1516, starts by describing its purpose: to present \"The remedies that seem necessary in order that the evil and harm that exists in the Indies cease, and that God and our Lord the Prince may draw greater benefits than hitherto, and that the republic may be better preserved and consoled.\"\n\nLas Casas's first proposed remedy was a complete moratorium on the use of Indian labor in the Indies until such time as better regulations of it were set in place. This was meant simply to halt the decimation of the Indian population and to give the surviving Indians time to reconstitute themselves. Las Casas feared that at the rate the exploitation was proceeding it would be too late to hinder their annihilation unless action were taken rapidly. The second was a change in the labor policy so that instead of a colonist owning the labor of specific Indians, he would have a right to man-hours, to be carried out by no specific persons. This required the establishment of self-governing Indian communities on the land of colonists – who would themselves organize to provide the labor for their patron. The colonist would only have rights to a certain portion of the total labor, so that a part of the Indians were always resting and taking care of the sick. He proposed 12 other remedies, all having the specific aim of improving the situation for the Indians and limiting the powers that colonists were able to exercise over them.\n\nThe second part of the \"Memorial\" described suggestions for the social and political organization of Indian communities relative to colonial ones. Las Casas advocated the dismantlement of the city of Asunción and the subsequent gathering of Indians into communities of about 1,000 Indians to be situated as satellites of Spanish towns or mining areas. Here, Las Casas argued, Indians could be better governed, better taught and indoctrinated in the Christian faith, and would be easier to protect from abuse than if they were in scattered settlements. Each town would have a royal hospital built with four wings in the shape of a cross, where up to 200 sick Indians could be cared for at a time. He described in detail social arrangements, distribution of work, how provisions would be divided and even how table manners were to be introduced. Regarding expenses, he argued that \"this should not seem expensive or difficult, because after all, everything comes from them [the Indians] and they work for it and it is theirs.\" He even drew up a budget of each pueblo's expenses to cover wages for administrators, clerics, Bachelors of Latin, doctors, surgeons, pharmacists, advocates, ranchers, miners, muleteers, hospitalers, pig herders, fishermen, etc. He showed that this arrangement could easily be maintained and gold still be extracted at a profit.\n\n\"A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\" () is an account written in 1542 (published in Seville in 1552) about the mistreatment of the indigenous peoples of the Americas in colonial times and sent to then-Prince Philip II of Spain.\n\nOne of the stated purposes for writing the account was Las Casas's fear of Spain coming under divine punishment and his concern for the souls of the native peoples. The account was one of the first attempts by a Spanish writer of the colonial era to depict the unfair treatment that the indigenous people endured during the early stages of the Spanish conquest of the Greater Antilles, particularly the island of Hispaniola. Las Casas's point of view can be described as being heavily against some of the Spanish methods of colonization, which, as he described them, inflicted great losses on the indigenous occupants of the islands. In addition, his critique towards the colonizers served to bring awareness to his audience on the true meaning of Christianity, to dismantle any misconceptions on evangelization. His account was largely responsible for the adoption of the New Laws of 1542, which abolished native slavery for the first time in European colonial history and led to the Valladolid debate.\n\nThe book became an important element in the creation and propagation of the so-called Black Legend – the tradition of describing the Spanish empire as exceptionally morally corrupt and violent. It was republished several times by groups that were critical of the Spanish realm for political or religious reasons. The first edition in translation was published in Dutch in 1578, during the religious persecution of Dutch Protestants by the Spanish crown, followed by editions in French (1578), English (1583), and German (1599) – all countries where religious wars were raging. The first edition published in Spain after Las Casas's death appeared in Barcelona during the Catalan Revolt of 1646. The book was banned by the Aragonese inquisition in 1659.\n\nThe images described by Las Casas were later depicted by Theodore de Bry in copper plate engravings that helped expand the Black Legend against Spain.\n\nThe \"Apologetic Summary History of the People of These Indies\" (Spanish \"Apologética historia summaria de las gentes destas Indias\") was first written as the 68th chapter of the \"General History of the Indies\", but Las Casas changed it into a volume of its own, recognizing that the material was not historical. The material contained in the \"Apologetic History\" is primarily ethnographic accounts of the indigenous cultures of the Indies – the Taíno, the Ciboney, and the Guanahatabey, but it also contains descriptions of many of the other indigenous cultures that Las Casas learned about through his travels and readings. The history is apologetic because it is written as a defense of the cultural level of the Indians, arguing throughout that indigenous peoples of the Americas were just as civilized as the Roman, Greek and Egyptian civilizations—and more civilized than some European civilizations. It was in essence a comparative ethnography comparing practices and customs of European and American cultures and evaluating them according to whether they were good or bad, seen from a Christian viewpoint.\n\nHe wrote: \"I have declared and demonstrated openly and concluded, from chapter 22 to the end of this whole book, that all people of these our Indies are human, so far as is possible by the natural and human way and without the light of faith – had their republics, places, towns, and cities most abundant and well provided for, and did not lack anything to live politically and socially, and attain and enjoy civil happiness... And they equaled many nations of this world that are renowned and considered civilized, and they surpassed many others, and to none were they inferior. Among those they equaled were the Greeks and the Romans, and they surpassed them by many good and better customs. They surpassed also the English and the French and some of the people of our own Spain; and they were incomparably superior to countless others, in having good customs and lacking many evil ones.\" This work in which Las Casas combined his own ethnographic observations with those of other writers, and compared customs and cultures between different peoples, has been characterized as an early beginning of the discipline of anthropology.\n\nThe \"History of the Indies\" is a three-volume work begun in 1527 while Las Casas was in the Convent of Puerto de Plata. It found its final form in 1561, when he was working in the Colegio de San Gregorio. Originally planned as a six-volume work, each volume describes a decade of the history of the Indies from the arrival of Christopher Columbus in 1492 to 1520, and most of it is an eye-witness account. It was in the \"History of the Indies\" that Las Casas finally regretted his advocacy for African slavery, and included a sincere apology, writing, \"I soon repented and judged myself guilty of ignorance. I came to realize that black slavery was as unjust as Indian slavery... and I was not sure that my ignorance and good faith would secure me in the eyes of God.\" (Vol II, p. 257)\n\nLas Casas's legacy has been highly controversial. In the years following his death, his ideas became taboo in the Spanish realm, and he was seen as a nearly heretical extremist. The accounts written by his enemies Lopez de Gómara and Oviedo were widely read and published. As the British Empire rose to power and hostilities between the British and Spanish began, the British used Las Casas's accounts of Spanish cruelty as a political tool, as part of the foundation of what Spanish nationalists have called the Black Legend, the tendency of historians to slander Spain for its imperial past but to look mildly at the same undertakings by others such as the British.\n\nOpposition to Las Casas reached its climax in historography with Spanish right-wing, nationalist historians in the late 19th and early 20th centuries constructing a pro-Spanish White Legend, arguing that the Spanish Empire was benevolent and just and denying any adverse consequences of Spanish colonialism. Spanish pro-imperial historians such as Menéndez y Pelayo, Menéndez Pidal, and J. Pérez de Barrada depicted Las Casas as a madman, describing him as a \"paranoic\" and a monomaniac given to exaggeration, and as a traitor towards his own nation. Menéndez Pelayo also accused Las Casas of having been instrumental in suppressing the publication of Juan Ginés de Sepúlveda's \"Democrates Alter\" (also called \"Democrates Secundus\") out of spite, but other historians find that to be unlikely since it was rejected by the theologians of both Alcalá and Salamanca, who were unlikely to be influenced by Las Casas.\n\nLas Casas has also often been accused of exaggerating the atrocities he described in the Indies, some scholars holding that the initial population figures given by him were too high, which would make the population decline look worse than it actually was, and that epidemics of European disease were the prime cause of the population decline, not violence and exploitation. Demographic studies such as those of colonial Mexico by Sherburne F. Cook in the mid-20th century suggested that the decline in the first years of the conquest was indeed drastic, ranging between 80 and 90%, due of course to many different causes but all ultimately traceable to the arrival of the Europeans. The overwhelming main cause was disease introduced by the Europeans. It has also been noted that exaggeration of numbers was the norm in writing in 16th-century accounts, and both contemporary detractors and supporters of Las Casas were guilty of similar exaggerations.\n\nIt has also been suggested that the atrocities that Las Casas described were exaggerated or even invented, but that is not generally considered likely as Las Casas was far from the only person to be deeply worried about abuse and mistreatment of the Indians. The Dominican friars Antonio de Montesinos and Pedro de Córdoba had reported extensive violence already in the first decade of the conquest of the Indies, and throughout the conquest of the Americas, there were reports of abuse of the natives by friars and priests and ordinary citizens, and many massacres of indigenous people were reported in full by those who perpetrated them. Even some of Las Casas's enemies, such as Toribio de Benavente Motolinia, reported many gruesome atrocities committed against the Indians by the colonizers. All in all, modern historians tend to disregard the numerical figures given by Las Casas, but they maintain that his general picture of a violent and abusive conquest represented reality.\n\nOne persistent point of criticism has been Las Casas's repeated suggestions of replacing Indian with African slave labor. Even though he repented that position later in his life and included an apology in his \"History of the Indies\", some later criticism held him responsible for the institution of the Atlantic slave trade. One detractor, the abolitionist David Walker, called Las Casas a \"wretch... stimulated by sordid avarice only,\" holding him responsible for the enslavement of thousands of Africans. Other historians, such as John Fiske writing in 1900, denied that Las Casas's suggestions affected the development of the slave trade. Benjamin Keen likewise did not consider Las Casas to have had any substantial impact on the slave trade, which was well in place before he began writing. That view is contradicted by Sylvia Wynter, who argued that Las Casas's 1516 Memorial was the direct cause of Charles V granting permission in 1518 to transport the first 4,000 African slaves to Jamaica.\n\nRevisionist histories of the late 20th century have argued for a more nuanced image of Las Casas, suggesting that he was neither a saint nor a fanatic but a person with exceptional willpower and a sense of justice, which sometimes led him into arrogance, stubbornness, and hypocrisy. Some historians such as argue that he was more of a politician than a humanitarian and that his liberation policies were always combined with schemes to make colonial extraction of resources from the natives more efficient. He also argues that Las Casas failed to realize that by seeking to replace indigenous spirituality with Christianity, he was undertaking a religious colonialism that was more intrusive than the physical one. That critique has been rejected by other historians as facile and anachronistic.\n\nIn 1848, Ciudad de San Cristóbal, then the capital of the Mexican state of Chiapas, was renamed San Cristóbal de Las Casas in honor of its first bishop. His work is a particular inspiration behind the work of the Las Casas Institute at Blackfriars Hall, Oxford. He is also often cited as a predecessor of the liberation theology movement. He is commemorated by the Church of England in the Calendar of Saints on July 20, The Episcopal Church (USA) on July 18, and at the Evangelical Lutheran Church on July 17. In the Catholic Church, the Dominicans introduced his cause for canonization in 1976. In 2002 the Church began the process for his beatification.\n\nHe has also come to be seen as an early advocate for a concept of universal human rights. He was among the first to develop a view of unity among humankind, stating that \"All people of the world are humans,\" and that they had a natural right to liberty – a combination of Thomist rights philosophy with Augustinian political theology. In this capacity, an ecumenical human rights institute located in San Cristóbal de las Casas, the Centro Fray Bartolomé de las Casas de Derechos Humanos, was established by Bishop Samuel Ruiz in 1989.\n\nHe is also featured in the Guatemalan quetzal one cent (Q0.01) coins.\n\nThe small town of Lascassas, Tennessee, in the United States has also been named after him.\n\nHe is a central character in the H.R. Hays historical novel \"The Takers of the City\", published in 1946.\n\nContent notes:\n\nCitations\n\n"}
{"id": "36198935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36198935", "title": "Becker Professional Education", "text": "Becker Professional Education\n\nBecker Professional Education is a subsidiary of Adtalem Global Education (formerly DeVry Inc.) that offers educational resources for professionals in the areas of accounting, finance, project management, and healthcare.\n\nBecker is best known as the largest provider of training for candidates who are preparing to sit for the United States (US) CPA Exam in order to become Certified Public Accountants. Becker offers its CPA Exam Review in the form of live classes (which take place in locations throughout the US and around the world), as well as online courses, and a self-study course on disc.\n\nAs a measure of its influence on the accounting industry, the AICPA's \"Journal of Accountancy\" estimated that as many as half of the CPAs in the United States have passed the CPA Exam with the help of Becker's course.\n\nOriginally developed in 1957 by accountant and entrepreneur Newton Becker as a training course for fellow employees of Price Waterhouse, Becker CPA Review was launched as an independent company in 1960. The company grew rapidly, and by the 1980s it had classroom locations in more than 90 cities. Becker eventually sold the company to DeVry in 1996, partly due to changes in the industry.\n\nIn addition to its CPA Exam Review, Becker currently offers exam preparation for a number of other international accounting credentials: Certified Management Accountant (CMA), Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and Diploma in International Financial Reporting (DipIFR) certifications. Becker also provides continuing professional education (CPE) and project management training.\n\nIn 2012, Becker acquired Falcon Physician Reviews and expanded into the healthcare education field. Through Falcon, Becker now offers review programs for physicians who are preparing for the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) and the Comprehensive Osteopathic Medical Licensing Examination (COMLEX).\n\n"}
{"id": "53430903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53430903", "title": "Cercle des prolétaires positivistes", "text": "Cercle des prolétaires positivistes\n\nThe Cercle des prolétaires positivistes (Circle of Positivist Proletarians) was an organisation of working class positivists who advocated revolution were affiliated to the First International, i.e. the International Workingmen's Association (IWA). The Parisian Circle sent Gabriel Mollin as their delegate to the Basle Congress of the IWA. Subsequently, referred to as the 'Society of Positivist Proletarians', they applied for admission to the IWA. The General Council replied they must alter the constitution as regards their understanding of capital and join as proletarians rather than as positivists.\n\n"}
{"id": "18021811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18021811", "title": "Computer Ethics Institute", "text": "Computer Ethics Institute\n\nThe Computer Ethics Institute (CEI) is a nonprofit research, education, and public policy organization focused on the issues, dilemmas, and challenges of advancing information technology within ethical frameworks. CEI is based in Washington, DC, USA. \n\nCEI's mission is to facilitate the examination and recognition of ethical issues in the development and use of modern information technologies. The output of this discussion provides educational resources and governing rules that have been adopted by many schools, organizations, and corporations around the globe.\n\nCEI's constituency is composed of professionals from the academic, corporate and public policy, information technology and religious communities. In addition, its constituency is multi-disciplined, multi-cultural, cross-generational and international. \n\nCEI was founded in 1985 as the Coalition for Computer Ethics. Founding members came from The Brookings Institution, The International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), The Washington Consulting Group and The Washington Technological Consortium. The consortium’s goal was to provide methods to increase an awareness of the ethical ramifications inherent in the use of Information Technology. CEI is one of the first organizations to confront the ethical and public policy issues surrounding the advancement of information technology\n\nThis short code of ethics for using computers and information technology is the best-known product of CEI. It is often quoted in college-level textbooks and adopted for practical use. The biblical reference in the title does not imply any religious affiliation: it merely summarizes the importance of the rules compiled. (See main article: Ten Commandments of Computer Ethics.)\n\n\"The Ten Commandments of Computer Ethics\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45441", "title": "Conservation movement", "text": "Conservation movement\n\nThe conservation movement, also known as nature conservation, is a political, environmental, and social movement that seeks to protect natural resources including animal and plant species as well as their habitat for the future.\n\nThe early conservation movement included fisheries and wildlife management, water, soil conservation, and sustainable forestry. The contemporary conservation movement has broadened from the early movement's emphasis on use of sustainable yield of natural resources and preservation of wilderness areas to include preservation of biodiversity. Some say the conservation movement is part of the broader and more far-reaching environmental movement, while others argue that they differ both in ideology and practice. Chiefly in the United States, conservation is seen as differing from environmentalism in that it aims to preserve natural resources expressly for their continued sustainable use by humans. Outside the U.S. the term conservation more broadly includes environmentalism.\n\nThe conservation movement can be traced back to John Evelyn's work \"Sylva\", presented as a paper to the Royal Society in 1662. Published as a book two years later, it was one of the most highly influential texts on forestry ever published. Timber resources in England were becoming dangerously depleted at the time, and Evelyn advocated the importance of conserving the forests by managing the rate of depletion and ensuring that the cut down trees get replenished.\n\nThe field developed during the 18th century, especially in Prussia and France where scientific forestry methods were developed. These methods were first applied rigorously in British India from the early-19th century. The government was interested in the use of forest produce and began managing the forests with measures to reduce the risk of wildfire in order to protect the \"household\" of nature, as it was then termed. This early ecological idea was in order to preserve the growth of delicate teak trees, which was an important resource for the Royal Navy. Concerns over teak depletion were raised as early as 1799 and 1805 when the Navy was undergoing a massive expansion during the Napoleonic Wars; this pressure led to the first formal conservation Act, which prohibited the felling of small teak trees. The first forestry officer was appointed in 1806 to regulate and preserve the trees necessary for shipbuilding. This promising start received a setback in the 1820s and 30s, when laissez-faire economics and complaints from private landowners brought these early conservation attempts to an end.\n\nConservation was revived in the mid-19th century, with the first practical application of scientific conservation principles to the forests of India. The conservation ethic that began to evolve included three core principles: that human activity damaged the environment, that there was a civic duty to maintain the environment for future generations, and that scientific, empirically based methods should be applied to ensure this duty was carried out. Sir James Ranald Martin was prominent in promoting this ideology, publishing many medico-topographical reports that demonstrated the scale of damage wrought through large-scale deforestation and desiccation, and lobbying extensively for the institutionalization of forest conservation activities in British India through the establishment of Forest Departments. Edward Percy Stebbing warned of desertification of India. The Madras Board of Revenue started local conservation efforts in 1842, headed by Alexander Gibson, a professional botanist who systematically adopted a forest conservation program based on scientific principles. This was the first case of state management of forests in the world.\n\nThese local attempts gradually received more attention by the British government as the unregulated felling of trees continued unabated. In 1850, the British Association in Edinburgh formed a committee to study forest destruction at the behest of Dr. Hugh Cleghorn a pioneer in the nascent conservation movement.\n\nHe had become interested in forest conservation in Mysore in 1847 and gave several lectures at the Association on the failure of agriculture in India. These lectures influenced the government under Governor-General Lord Dalhousie to introduce the first permanent and large-scale forest conservation program in the world in 1855, a model that soon spread to other colonies, as well the United States. In the same year, Cleghorn organised the Madras Forest Department and in 1860 the Department banned the use shifting cultivation. Cleghorn's 1861 manual, \"The forests and gardens of South India\", became the definitive work on the subject and was widely used by forest assistants in the subcontinent. In 1861, the Forest Department extended its remit into the Punjab.\nSir Dietrich Brandis, a German forester, joined the British service in 1856 as superintendent of the teak forests of Pegu division in eastern Burma. During that time Burma's teak forests were controlled by militant Karen tribals. He introduced the \"taungya\" system, in which Karen villagers provided labour for clearing, planting and weeding teak plantations. After seven years in Burma, Brandis was appointed Inspector General of Forests in India, a position he served in for 20 years. He formulated new forest legislation and helped establish research and training institutions. The Imperial Forest School at Dehradun was founded by him.\n\nGermans were prominent in the forestry administration of British India. As well as Brandis, Berthold Ribbentrop and Sir William P.D. Schlich brought new methods to Indian conservation, the latter becoming the Inspector-General in 1883 after Brandis stepped down. Schlich helped to establish the journal \"Indian Forester\" in 1874, and became the founding director of the first forestry school in England at Cooper's Hill in 1885. He authored the five-volume \"Manual of Forestry\" (1889–96) on silviculture, forest management, forest protection, and forest utilisation, which became the standard and enduring textbook for forestry students.\n\nThe American movement received its inspiration from 19th century works that exalted the inherent value of nature, quite apart from human usage. Author Henry David Thoreau (1817-1862) made key philosophical contributions that exalted nature. Thoreau was interested in peoples' relationship with nature and studied this by living close to nature in a simple life. He published his experiences in the book \"Walden,\" which argued that people should become intimately close with nature. The ideas of Sir Brandis, Sir William P.D. Schlich and Carl A. Schenck were also very influential - Gifford Pinchot, the first chief of the USDA Forest Service, relied heavily upon Brandis' advice for introducing professional forest management in the U.S. and on how to structure the Forest Service.\n\nBoth conservationists and preservationists appeared in political debates during the Progressive Era (the 1890s—early 1920s). There were three main positions. The laissez-faire position held that owners of private property—including lumber and mining companies, should be allowed to do anything they wished for their property.\n\nThe conservationists, led by future President Theodore Roosevelt and his close ally George Bird Grinnell, were motivated by the wanton waste that was taking place at the hand of market forces, including logging and hunting. This practice resulted in placing a large number of North American game species on the edge of extinction. Roosevelt recognized that the laissez-faire approach of the U.S. Government was too wasteful and inefficient. In any case, they noted, most of the natural resources in the western states were already owned by the federal government. The best course of action, they argued, was a long-term plan devised by national experts to maximize the long-term economic benefits of natural resources. To accomplish the mission, Roosevelt and Grinnell formed the Boone and Crockett Club in 1887. The Club was made up of the best minds and influential men of the day. The Boone and Crockett Club's contingency of conservationists, scientists, politicians, and intellectuals became Roosevelt's closest advisers during his march to preserve wildlife and habitat across North America. Preservationists, led by John Muir (1838–1914), argued that the conservation policies were not strong enough to protect the interest of the natural world because they continued to focus on the natural world as a source of economic production.\n\nThe debate between conservation and preservation reached its peak in the public debates over the construction of California's Hetch Hetchy dam in Yosemite National Park which supplies the water supply of San Francisco. Muir, leading the Sierra Club, declared that the valley must be preserved for the sake of its beauty: \"No holier temple has ever been consecrated by the heart of man.\"\n\nPresident Roosevelt put conservationist issue high on the national agenda. He worked with all the major figures of the movement, especially his chief advisor on the matter, Gifford Pinchot and was deeply committed to conserving natural resources. He encouraged the Newlands Reclamation Act of 1902 to promote federal construction of dams to irrigate small farms and placed 230 million acres (360,000 mi or 930,000 km) under federal protection. Roosevelt set aside more federal land for national parks and nature preserves than all of his predecessors combined.\nRoosevelt established the United States Forest Service, signed into law the creation of five national parks, and signed the year 1906 Antiquities Act, under which he proclaimed 18 new national monuments. He also established the first 51 bird reserves, four game preserves, and 150 national forests, including Shoshone National Forest, the nation's first. The area of the United States that he placed under public protection totals approximately .\n\nGifford Pinchot had been appointed by McKinley as chief of Division of Forestry in the Department of Agriculture. In 1905, his department gained control of the national forest reserves. Pinchot promoted private use (for a fee) under federal supervision. In 1907, Roosevelt designated 16 million acres (65,000 km) of new national forests just minutes before a deadline.\n\nIn May 1908, Roosevelt sponsored the Conference of Governors held in the White House, with a focus on natural resources and their most efficient use. Roosevelt delivered the opening address: \"Conservation as a National Duty.\".\n\nIn 1903 Roosevelt toured the Yosemite Valley with John Muir, who had a very different view of conservation, and tried to minimize commercial use of water resources and forests. Working through the Sierra Club he founded, Muir succeeded in 1905 in having Congress transfer the Mariposa Grove and Yosemite Valley to the federal government. While Muir wanted nature preserved for its own sake, Roosevelt subscribed to Pinchot's formulation, \"to make the forest produce the largest amount of whatever crop or service will be most useful, and keep on producing it for generation after generation of men and trees.\"\n\nTheodore Roosevelt's view on conservationism remained dominant for decades; - Franklin D. Roosevelt authorised the building of many large-scale dams and water projects, as well as the expansion of the National Forest System to buy out sub-marginal farms. In 1937, the Pittman–Robertson Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act was signed into law, providing funding for state agencies to carry out their conservation efforts.\n\nEnvironmental reemerged on the national agenda in 1970, with Republican Richard Nixon playing a major role, especially with his creation of the Environmental Protection Agency. The debates over the public lands and environmental politics played a supporting role in the decline of liberalism and the rise of modern environmentalism. Although Americans consistently rank environmental issues as \"important\", polling data indicates that in the voting booth voters rank the environmental issues low relative to other political concerns.\n\nThe growth of the Republican party's political power in the inland West (apart from the Pacific coast) was facilitated by the rise of popular opposition to public lands reform. Successful Democrats in the inland West and Alaska typically take more conservative positions on environmental issues than Democrats from the Coastal states. Conservatives drew on new organizational networks of think tanks, industry groups, and citizen-oriented organizations, and they began to deploy new strategies that affirmed the rights of individuals to their property, protection of extraction rights, to hunt and recreate, and to pursue happiness unencumbered by the federal government at the expense of resource conservation.\n\nAlthough the conservation movement developed in Europe in the 18th century, Costa Rica as a country has been heralded its champion in the current times. Costa Rica hosts an astonishing number of species, given its size, having more animal and plant species than the US and Canada combined while being only 250 miles long and 150 miles wide. A widely accepted theory for the origin of this unusual density of species is the free mixing of species from both North and South America occurring on this \"inter-oceanic\" and \"inter-continental\" landscape. Preserving the natural environment of this fragile landscape, therefore, has drawn the attention of many international scholars.\n\nCosta Rica has made conservation a national priority, and has been at the forefront of preserving its natural environment with over a quarter of its land designated as protected in some form, which is under the administrative control of SINAC (National System of Conservation Areas) a division of MINAE (Ministry of Environment, Energy and Telecommunications). SINAC has subdivided the country into various zones depending on the ecological diversity of that region - these zones are depicted in figure 1.\n\nThe country has used this ecological diversity to its economic advantage in the form of a thriving ecotourism industry, putting its commitment to nature, on display to visitors from across the globe. It is estimated that a record 2.6 million foreigners visited the country in 2015, almost half the population of Costa Rica itself. This tourism is facilitated by the fact that Costa Rica has a stable democracy and has a human development index of 0.776, the highest for any country in Latin America.\n\nIt is also the only country in the world that generates more than 99% of its electricity from renewable sources, relying on hydropower (78%), wind (10%), geothermal energy (10%), biomass and solar (1%). Critics have pointed out however, that in achieving this milestone, the country has built several dams (providing the bulk of its electricity) some of which have negatively impacted indigenous communities as well as the local flora and fauna.\n\n\"The Green Republic: A Conservation History of Costa Rica\" by Sterling Evans is a renowned book that traces the development of the conservation movement in Costa Rica from the mid 1700s to present day. Evans mentions that when the Spaniards first arrived in the Americas, the landscape of Costa Rica did not appear particularly hospitable to them, compared to Guatemala or Mexico which seemed more reminiscent of the Spanish climate. Therefore, up until the 18th century, there was very little agricultural development in the region. It also lacked gold and other minerals that Christopher Columbus had hoped to find in these areas (hence the name, Rich Coast). As a result, the forest cover of Costa Rica was left more or less intact by the European settlement in the Americas.\n\nBy the mid-19th century, it was observed that the Costa Rican soil was particularly conducive to the growth of coffee. The global demand for coffee was growing rapidly, fueled by the demand from the working class in the industrializing west. The agricultural model adopted by coffee growers in Costa Rica was of small family owned farms known as \"cafeteras,\" and they strove to be responsible stewards of the land. This approach was in stark contrast to the coffee monoculture that would've developed by adopting a purely capitalistic ideology. As a result, even though the coffee production increased substantially from 1850 to 1950, there wasn't large scale deforestation in Costa Rica until the 1950s, contrary to popular belief.\n\nSome of the key points often overlooked in Costa Rica's conservation history between 1850 and 2000 according to Evans, are as follows:\n\n1. President Bernardo Soto's government in 1888 began the process of attracting scholars from all over the world, particularly Switzerland and Germany in an effort to educate the locals about agricultural practices harmonious with the environment such that by 1914, Costa Rica became a leading scientific research center in tropical America\n\n2. The establishment of the University of Costa Rica (UCR) in the 1940s was a landmark event, since the university acted as a springboard for research into tropical studies in Central America. At the helm of UCR were many influential academics such as Rafael Lucas Rodríguez and Alexander Skutch whose forward thinking publications served as a foundation for the future policy decisions. Skutch noted,\n\n3. By 1950, Costa Rica became heavily reliant on coffee exports to Europe and the US. Around the same time, it was battling the dilemma between increasing agricultural output on one hand and protecting natural resources for future use on the other. In 1958, however, the world coffee prices plummeted, and Costa Rica's main source of income was shown to be very vulnerable to unpredictable forces. The government responded by promoting internal manufacturing and encouraging other industries. One such industry that emerged as a result, was the meat industry.\n\nThe Central American valley has been described as \"perfect for cattle\" by Carl Hoffman. Until 1970, the cattle raised in Costa Rica were primarily used for domestic consumption. Around 1970, the demand for beef from the US started showing an exponential growth due to the rise of the fast-food industry. This robust demand, coupled with the falling coffee prices gave the cattle industry a boost and forests started getting replaced with pastures. At its worst, Costa Rica was losing 4% of its forested area per year.\n\nAn alternative analysis by Julia Flagg within the framework of \"process-tracing\" reveals that after gaining independence in 1821 the isolation of Costa Rica from El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala, and Nicaragua was critical in shaping its future and served as a divergence point in the evolution of the Central American nations. According to Mahoney “ . . . while all of the other provinces quickly became engulfed in warfare and political chaos, Costa Rica escaped such devastation and made tentative economic strides forward”. She also argues that the lack of a land-owning elite class in Costa Rica was instrumental in the development of good governance and maintaining a stable democracy in the country. The abolishing of the military in 1948 helped free up valuable resources that the government chose to invest into education and resource protection. The country entered into a positive reinforcement cycle thereafter, where new laws enacted drew international praise which helped solidify Costa Rica's position as global leader in resource protection .\n\nTo counter reducing forest area coverage in the 1980's, the Costa Rican government pioneered a scheme in 1997 known as \"PES\", which rewarded private land owners for keeping forests intact on their lands in lieu of the services provided by these forests to the environment and the economy as a whole. The World Bank, which provided the loan initially from 2000 to 2006 to support the payments incentivizing afforestation, viewed the program as a success overall despite some of its shortcomings.\n\nIt is estimated that the percentage of Costa Rican land covered by forests has gone up from around 20% in the 1980's to over 50% of the total area in 2013 - a growth of 250%. The program has also reduced the national carbon emissions by 11 million tons over a period of 6 years from 1999 to 2005. Indigenous communities and women in particular, have benefited due to this program. Buoyed by this success, the World Bank extended its support to the Costa Rican government's initiative by funding a new program titled \"Mainstreaming Market-Based Instruments for Environmental Management\". Over the years, many international agencies have pushed the national government to make the process of obtaining the payments easier so as to include more underdeveloped communities and cast a wider net for the program.\n\nThe green sea turtle is a globally endangered species and one of the most important nesting grounds for it is in Tortuguero, Costa Rica - the word Totuguero is derived from old Spanish maps meaning \"place of turtles\". After a steady global decline in its population due to overhunting for its meat and eggs, the Tortuguero National Park was established in 1975 in an effort to protect and save the turtle's breeding zone. A highly cited study by Tröeng and Rankin, investigated in 2004, the effects that this protective measure has had on the nesting trend. Although the population of turtles shows a large inter-annual variation thus making the task of determining the exact number very difficult, on an average, the trend has been positive over a long time scale of almost 35 years. The study illustrated that the enactment of three laws by the Costa Rican government was vital in stabilizing and increasing the population of these green sea turtles.\n\n1. A ban on turtle and egg collection in 1963\n\n2. A ban on the export of calipee (a part of the turtle's head that is considered a delicacy) in 1970 and finally,\n\n3. The creation of the Tortuguero National Park in 1975 by the legislative assembly.\n\nThe lasting impact created by such forward thinking political decisions exhibits the necessity of meaningful governmental intervention.\n\nAlthough they contribute only 0.15% to the world's greenhouse gas emissions, the governments of New Zealand and Costa Rica have independently expressed their intents to become carbon neutral in the next decade, with Costa Rica aiming to achieve an ambitious target of becoming carbon neutral by 2021. In doing so, it would become the world's first carbon neutral country, with the expectation of influencing policy decisions in other major countries. The proposal hopes to ignite the interest of private companies to engage in practices that reduce their emissions, for example, using more fuel efficient routes in transportation, relying more on digital documents than printed ones, adopting LED lighting in offices and using more efficient air conditioning systems.\n\nThe government's approach to attain zero net emissions has yielded positive results overall, but has been described as insufficient and lacking by experts because it neglects vehicular emissions which account for nearly 20% of the country's total emissions. The 2021 target has also been called \"arbitrary\" and \"overambitious\", since the efforts to reduce the country's reliance on imported oil will take much longer to take effect.\n\nIn 2006, a study by Sierra and Russman analyzed the additional conservation obtained through PES, over and above the baseline conservation rate. The study concluded that the PES program definitely affected land use decisions because land owners used the payments for other productive activities thus keeping the forest cover intact. However, they also concluded that this was not the most effective use of funds because the majority of these forests would have remained intact even without the payments. The study suggested that it would a better strategy to engage in the protection of more critical habitats instead. \n\nThe jaguar is an endangered species and its habitat came under threat due to construction of the Reventazón dam in the Reventazón valley. The Reventazón dam is the largest dam in Central America with an installed capacity of 305.5 MW. The two financiers of the project, the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank, financed it on the condition that the construction of the dam by the state-run Costa Rican Electricity Institute (ICE) would \"restore and maintain connectivity within the Barbilla-Destierro Corridor\" which is critical to the survival of the jaguar.\n\nProtestors of this project claim that the construction has failed to meet the expectations on the following issues:\n\n1) The constructors did not completely clear vegetation from the areas that would be flooded due to this project. As a result, the uncleared vegetation in the flooded areas began to stagnate, creating the perfect conditions for the growth of the Water Hyacinth (an invasive species). The Water Hyacinth acted as a source for a large amount of carbon dioxide and methane emitted into the atmosphere.\n\n2) Reforestation around the reservoir lake to assist in the migration of the jaguars has not been completed making their movement more difficult.\n\n3) Due to the removal of a lot of material to facilitate construction, the neighboring Lancaster wetlands (home to more than 250 species of birds and 80 species of mammals, reptiles and amphibians) have been left in a state more susceptible to landslides.\n\nWhat appears to be common in these criticisms is that the initiatives have moved things in the right direction overall, but the implementation hasn't been as good as promised.\n\nDeforestation and overpopulation are issues affecting all regions of the world. The consequent destruction of wildlife habitat has prompted the creation of conservation groups in other countries, some founded by local hunters who have witnessed declining wildlife populations first hand. Also, it was highly important for the conservation movement to solve problems of living conditions in the cities and the overpopulation of such places.\n\nThe idea of incentive conservation is a modern one but its practice has clearly defended some of the sub Arctic wildernesses and the wildlife in those regions for thousands of years, especially by indigenous peoples such as the Evenk, Yakut, Sami, Inuit and Cree. The fur trade and hunting by these peoples have preserved these regions for thousands of years. Ironically, the pressure now upon them comes from non-renewable resources such as oil, sometimes to make synthetic clothing which is advocated as a humane substitute for fur. (See Raccoon dog for case study of the conservation of an animal through fur trade.) Similarly, in the case of the beaver, hunting and fur trade were thought to bring about the animal's demise, when in fact they were an integral part of its conservation. For many years children's books stated and still do, that the decline in the beaver population was due to the fur trade. In reality however, the decline in beaver numbers was because of habitat destruction and deforestation, as well as its continued persecution as a pest (it causes flooding). In Cree lands however, where the population valued the animal for meat and fur, it continued to thrive. The Inuit defend their relationship with the seal in response to outside critics.\n\nThe Izoceño-Guaraní of Santa Cruz Department, Bolivia is a tribe of hunters who were influential in establishing the Capitania del Alto y Bajo Isoso (CABI). CABI promotes economic growth and survival of the Izoceno people while discouraging the rapid destruction of habitat within Bolivia's Gran Chaco. They are responsible for the creation of the 34,000 square kilometre Kaa-Iya del Gran Chaco National Park and Integrated Management Area (KINP). The KINP protects the most biodiverse portion of the Gran Chaco, an ecoregion shared with Argentina, Paraguay and Brazil. In 1996, the Wildlife Conservation Society joined forces with CABI to institute wildlife and hunting monitoring programs in 23 Izoceño communities. The partnership combines traditional beliefs and local knowledge with the political and administrative tools needed to effectively manage habitats. The programs rely solely on voluntary participation by local hunters who perform self-monitoring techniques and keep records of their hunts. The information obtained by the hunters participating in the program has provided CABI with important data required to make educated decisions about the use of the land. Hunters have been willing participants in this program because of pride in their traditional activities, encouragement by their communities and expectations of benefits to the area.\n\nIn order to discourage illegal South African hunting parties and ensure future local use and sustainability, indigenous hunters in Botswana began lobbying for and implementing conservation practices in the 1960s. The Fauna Preservation Society of Ngamiland (FPS) was formed in 1962 by the husband and wife team: Robert Kay and June Kay, environmentalists working in conjunction with the Batawana tribes to preserve wildlife habitat.\n\nThe FPS promotes habitat conservation and provides local education for preservation of wildlife. Conservation initiatives were met with strong opposition from the Botswana government because of the monies tied to big-game hunting. In 1963, BaTawanga Chiefs and tribal hunter/adventurers in conjunction with the FPS founded Moremi National Park and Wildlife Refuge, the first area to be set aside by tribal people rather than governmental forces. Moremi National Park is home to a variety of wildlife, including lions, giraffes, elephants, buffalo, zebra, cheetahs and antelope, and covers an area of 3,000 square kilometers. Most of the groups involved with establishing this protected land were involved with hunting and were motivated by their personal observations of declining wildlife and habitat.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nUsa be lit sometimes\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46199954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46199954", "title": "Daniel Babut", "text": "Daniel Babut\n\nDaniel Babut (12 February 1929, Lille - 13 February 2009) was a French Hellenist, specialising in Greek philosophy, especially the \"Moralia\" of Plutarch. He was employed by the Lumière University Lyon 2 from 1963 to 1992.\n\nDaniel Babut dedicated his doctoral thesis, completed in 1969, to Plutarch and his reception of Stoicism. He showed that Plutarch was opposed, consistently and sometimes violently, to Stoic philosophy and made the Stoics his \"chief adversaries.\" ». The same year he published the text of Plutarch's \"On Moral Virtue\", one of the texts in which he found particularly marked polemic against the stoics, in the Collection Budé.\n\nInterested in the question of Greek philosophers relationship with the divine, he published a synthesis \"La Religion des philosophes grecs de Thalès aux stoïcismes\" (The Religion of the Greek Philosophers from Thales to the Stoics) in 1974. His studies were particularly focussed on the place of Anaximander and Xenophanes in the evolution of ideas about the divine. \n\n \n"}
{"id": "125296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=125296", "title": "Delusion", "text": "Delusion\n\nA delusion is a mistaken belief that is held with strong conviction even in the presence of superior evidence to the contrary. As a pathology, it is distinct from a belief based on false or incomplete information, confabulation, dogma, illusion, or some other misleading effects of perception.\n\nThey have been found to occur in the context of many pathological states (both general physical and mental) and are of particular diagnostic importance in psychotic disorders including schizophrenia, paraphrenia, manic episodes of bipolar disorder, and psychotic depression.\n\nAlthough non-specific concepts of madness have been around for several thousand years, the psychiatrist and philosopher Karl Jaspers was the first to define the three main criteria for a belief to be considered delusional in his 1913 book \"General Psychopathology\". These criteria are:\n\nFurthermore, when a false belief involves a value judgment, it is only considered a delusion if it is so extreme that it cannot be, or never can be proven true. For example: a man claiming that he flew into the Sun and flew back home. This would be considered a delusion, unless he were speaking figuratively, or if the belief had a cultural or religious source.\n\nExplaining the causes of delusions continues to be challenging and several theories have been developed. One is the genetic or biological theory, which states that close relatives of people with delusional disorder are at increased risk of delusional traits. Another theory is the dysfunctional cognitive processing, which states that delusions may arise from distorted ways people have of explaining life to themselves. A third theory is called motivated or defensive delusions. This one states that some of those persons who are predisposed might suffer the onset of delusional disorder in those moments when coping with life and maintaining high self-esteem becomes a significant challenge. In this case, the person views others as the cause of their personal difficulties in order to preserve a positive self-view.\n\nThis condition is more common among people who have poor hearing or sight. Also, ongoing stressors have been associated with a higher possibility of developing delusions. Examples of such stressors are immigration, low socioeconomic status, and even possibly the accumulation of smaller daily hassles.\n\nThe top two factors mainly concerned in the germination of delusions are: 1. Disorder of brain functioning; and 2. background influences of temperament and personality.\n\nHigher levels of dopamine qualify as a symptom of disorders of brain function. That they are needed to sustain certain delusions was examined by a preliminary study on delusional disorder (a psychotic syndrome) instigated to clarify if schizophrenia had a dopamine psychosis. There were positive results - delusions of jealousy and persecution had different levels of dopamine metabolite HVA and homovanillyl alcohol (which may have been genetic). These can be only regarded as tentative results; the study called for future research with a larger population.\n\nIt is too simplistic to say that a certain measure of dopamine will bring about a specific delusion. Studies show age and gender to be influential and it is most likely that HVA levels change during the life course of some syndromes.\n\nOn the influence personality, it has been said: \"Jaspers considered there is a subtle change in personality due to the illness itself; and this creates the condition for the development of the delusional atmosphere in which the delusional intuition arises.\"\n\nCultural factors have \"a decisive influence in shaping delusions\". For example, delusions of guilt and punishment are frequent in a Western, Christian country like Austria, but not in Pakistan, where it is more likely persecution. Similarly, in a series of case studies, delusions of guilt and punishment were found in Austrian patients with Parkinson's being treated with l-dopa, a dopamine agonist.\n\nThe two-factor model of delusions posits that dysfunction in both belief formation systems and belief evaluation systems are necessary for delusions. Dysfunction in evaluations systems localized to the right lateral prefrontal cortex, regardless of delusion content, is supported by neuroimaging studies and is congruent with its role in conflict monitoring in healthy persons. Abnormal activation and reduced volume is seen in people with delusions, as well as in disorders associated with delusions such as frontotemporal dementia, psychosis and lewy body dementia. Furthermore, lesions to this region are associated with \"jumping to conclusions\", damage to this region is associated with post-stroke delusions, and hypometabolism this region associated with caudate strokes presenting with delusions.\n\nThe aberrant salience model suggests that delusions are a result of people assigning excessive importance to irrelevant stimuli. In support of this hypothesis, regions normally associated with the salience network demonstrate reduced grey matter in people with delusions, and the neurotransmitter dopamine, which is widely implicated in salience processing, is also widely implicated in psychotic disorders.\n\nSpecific regions have been associated with specific types of delusions. The volume of the hippocampus and parahippocampus is related to paranoid delusions in Alzheimer's disease, and has been reported to be abnormal post mortem in one person with delusions. Capgras delusions have been associated with occipito-temporal damage and may be related to failure to elicit normal emotions or memories in response to faces.\n\nDelusions are categorized into four different groups:\n\n\nIn addition to these categories, delusions often manifest according to a consistent theme. Although delusions can have any theme, certain themes are more common. Some of the more common delusion themes are:\n\nGrandiose delusions or delusions of grandeur are principally a subtype of delusional disorder but could possibly feature as a symptom of schizophrenia and manic episodes of bipolar disorder. Grandiose delusions are characterized by fantastical beliefs that one is famous, omnipotent or otherwise very powerful. The delusions are generally fantastic, often with a supernatural, science-fictional, or religious bent. In colloquial usage, one who overestimates one's own abilities, talents, stature or situation is sometimes said to have \"delusions of grandeur\". This is generally due to excessive pride, rather than any actual delusions. Grandiose delusions or delusions of grandeur can also be associated with megalomania.\n\nPersecutory delusions are the most common type of delusions and involve the theme of being followed, harassed, cheated, poisoned or drugged, conspired against, spied on, attacked, or otherwise obstructed in the pursuit of goals.\nPersecutory delusions are a condition in which the affected person wrongly believes that they are being persecuted. Specifically, they have been defined as containing two central elements: The individual thinks that:\n\nAccording to the DSM-IV-TR, persecutory delusions are the most common form of delusions in schizophrenia, where the person believes they are \"being tormented, followed, sabotaged, tricked, spied on, or ridiculed.\" In the DSM-IV-TR, persecutory delusions are the main feature of the persecutory type of delusional disorder. When the focus is to remedy some injustice by legal action, they are sometimes called \"querulous paranoia\".\n\nThe modern definition and Jaspers' original criteria have been criticised, as counter-examples can be shown for every defining feature.\n\nStudies on psychiatric patients show that delusions vary in intensity and conviction over time, which suggests that certainty and incorrigibility are not necessary components of a delusional belief.\n\nDelusions do not necessarily have to be false or 'incorrect inferences about external reality'. Some religious or spiritual beliefs by their nature may not be falsifiable, and hence cannot be described as false or incorrect, no matter whether the person holding these beliefs was diagnosed as delusional or not.\nIn other situations the delusion may turn out to be true belief. For example, in delusional jealousy, where a person believes that their partner is being unfaithful (and may even follow them into the bathroom believing them to be seeing their lover even during the briefest of partings), it may actually be true that the partner is having sexual relations with another person. In this case, the delusion does not cease to be a delusion because the content later turns out to be verified as true or the partner actually chose to engage in the behavior of which they were being accused.\n\nIn other cases, the belief may be mistakenly assumed to be false by a doctor or psychiatrist assessing it, just because it \"seems\" to be unlikely, bizarre or held with excessive conviction. Psychiatrists rarely have the time or resources to check the validity of a person’s claims leading to some true beliefs to be erroneously classified as delusional. This is known as the Martha Mitchell effect, after the wife of the attorney general who alleged that illegal activity was taking place in the White House. At the time, her claims were thought to be signs of mental illness, and only after the Watergate scandal broke was she proved right (and hence sane).\n\nSimilar factors have led to criticisms of Jaspers' definition of true delusions as being ultimately 'un-understandable'. Critics (such as R. D. Laing) have argued that this leads to the diagnosis of delusions being based on the subjective understanding of a particular psychiatrist, who may not have access to all the information that might make a belief otherwise interpretable. R. D. Laing's hypothesis has been applied to some forms of projective therapy to \"fix\" a delusional system so that it cannot be altered by the patient. Psychiatric researchers at Yale University, Ohio State University and the Community Mental Health Center of Middle Georgia have used novels and motion picture films as the focus. Texts, plots and cinematography are discussed and the delusions approached tangentially. This use of fiction to decrease the malleability of a delusion was employed in a joint project by science-fiction author Philip Jose Farmer and Yale psychiatrist A. James Giannini. They wrote the novel \"Red Orc's Rage\", which, recursively, deals with delusional adolescents who are treated with a form of projective therapy. In this novel's fictional setting other novels written by Farmer are discussed and the characters are symbolically integrated into the delusions of fictional patients. This particular novel was then applied to real-life clinical settings.\n\nAnother difficulty with the diagnosis of delusions is that almost all of these features can be found in \"normal\" beliefs. Many religious beliefs hold exactly the same features, yet are not universally considered delusional. For instance, if a person was holding a true belief then they will of course persist with it. This can cause the disorder to be misdiagnosed by psychiatrists. These factors have led the psychiatrist Anthony David to note that \"there is no acceptable (rather than accepted) definition of a delusion.\" In practice, psychiatrists tend to diagnose a belief as delusional if it is either patently bizarre, causing significant distress, or excessively pre-occupying the patient, especially if the person is subsequently unswayed in belief by counter-evidence or reasonable arguments.\n\nIt is important to distinguish true delusions from other symptoms such as anxiety, fear, or paranoia. To diagnose delusions a mental state examination may be used. This test includes appearance, mood, affect, behavior, rate and continuity of speech, evidence of hallucinations or abnormal beliefs, thought content, orientation to time, place and person, attention and concentration, insight and judgment, as well as short-term memory.\n\nJohnson-Laird suggests that delusions may be viewed as the natural consequence of failure to distinguish conceptual relevance. That is, the person takes irrelevant information and puts it in the form of disconnected experiences, then it is taken to be relevant in a manner that suggests false causal connections. Furthermore, the person takes the relevant information, in the form of counterexamples, and ignores it.\n\nSome critical psychiatrists criticize the practice of defining one and the same belief as normal in one culture and pathological in another culture for cultural essentialism. They argue that since cultural influences are mixed, including not only parents and teachers but also peers, friends, books and the internet, and the same cultural influence can have different effects depending on earlier cultural influences, the assumption that culture can be boiled down to a few traceable, distinguishable and statistically quantifiable factors and that everything that does not fall in those factors must be biological, is not a justified assumption. Other critical psychiatrists argue that just because a person's belief is unshaken by one influence does not prove that it would remain unshaken by another. For example, a person whose beliefs are not changed by verbal correction from a psychiatrist, which is how delusion is usually diagnosed, may still change his or her mind when observing empirical evidence, only that psychiatry rarely if ever present patients with such situations.\n\nSometimes a correct belief may be mistaken for a delusion, such as when the belief in question is not demonstrably false but is nevertheless considered beyond the realm of possibility. A specific variant of this is when a person is fed lies in an attempt to convince them that they are delusional, a process called gaslighting, after the 1938 play \"Gaslight\", the plot of which centered around the process.\nGaslighting is frequently used by people with antisocial personality disorder or narcissistic personality disorder. Sometimes, gaslighting can be unintentional, for example if a person, or a group of people aim to lie or cover up an issue, it can lead to the victim being gaslighted as well.\n\nPsychotherapies that may be helpful in delusional disorder include individual psychotherapy, cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), and family therapy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "325505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325505", "title": "Dharmakāya", "text": "Dharmakāya\n\nThe dharmakāya (Sanskrit, \"truth body\" or \"reality body\", ) is one of the three bodies (\"trikaya\") of a buddha in Mahayana Buddhism. The \"dharmakāya\" constitutes the unmanifested, \"inconceivable\" (\"acintya\") aspect of a buddha out of which buddhas arise and to which they return after their dissolution. Buddhas are manifestations of the \"dharmakāya\" called the \"nirmāṇakāya\", \"transformation body\". Reginald Ray writes of it as \"the body of reality itself, without specific, delimited form, wherein the Buddha is identified with the spiritually charged nature of everything that is.\"\n\nThe Dhammakaya tradition of Thailand and the \"Tathāgatagarbha sūtras\" of the ancient Indian tradition view the \"dharmakāya\" as the \"ātman\" (true self) of the Buddha present within all beings.\n\nIn Tibetan, the term \"chos sku\" glosses \"dharmakāya\"; it is composed of \"chos\" \"religion, dharma\" and \"sku\" \"body, form, image, bodily form, figure\". Thondup & Talbott render it as the \"ultimate body\". In a key scholarly collaborative, Nyingma translation work published in 2005, furthermore notable as the first complete rendering of the \"Bardo Thodol\" into the English language from the Tibetan, this technical term was configured into English as \"Buddha-body of Reality\".\n\nThe Yungdrung Bon term for \"dharmakāya\" is \"rdzogs sku\", where \"rdzogs\" means \"perfection\".\n\nIn the Pāli Canon, Gautama Buddha tells Vasettha that the Tathāgata (the Buddha) is \"Dhammakaya\", the \"Truth-body\" or the \"Embodiment of Truth\", as well as \"Dharmabhuta\", \"Truth-become\", that is, \"One who has become Truth.\"\nDuring the Buddha's life great veneration was shown to him. A mythology developed concerning the physical characteristics of Universal Buddhas.\n\nAfter the Buddha's \"Parinirvana\" a distinction was made between the Buddha’s physical body or \"rūpakaya\" and his \"dharmakaya\" aspect. As the Buddha told Vakkali, he was a living example of the \"Truth\" of the \"Dharma\". Without that form to relate to, the Buddha's followers could only relate to the \"dharmakaya\" aspect of him.\n\nIn SN 6.2 – Garava sutta. Buddha paid homage to the \"Dhamma\" and tell, that he will respect it.\n\nThe \"Trikaya doctrine\" (Sanskrit, literally \"three bodies\" or \"three personalities\") is a Buddhist teaching both on the nature of reality, and the appearances of a Buddha.\n\nThe \"dharmakaya\"-doctrine was possibly first expounded in the \"Aṣṭasāhasrikā Prajñāpāramitā\", composed in the 1st century BCE.\n\nAround 300 CE, the Yogacara school systematized the prevalent ideas on the nature of the Buddha in the \"Trikaya\" \"three-body\" doctrine. According to this doctrine, Buddhahood has three aspects:\n\nTulku Thondup states that \"dharmakaya\" must possess three great qualities:\n\nAccording to Guang Xing, two main aspects of the Buddha can be seen in Mahāsāṃghika teachings: the true Buddha who is omniscient and omnipotent, and the manifested forms through which he liberates sentient beings through skillful means. For the Mahāsaṃghikas, the historical Gautama Buddha was one of these transformation bodies (Skt. \"nirmāṇakāya\"), while the essential real Buddha is equated with the \"dharmakāya\".\n\nSarvāstivādins viewed the Buddha's physical body (Skt. \"rūpakāya\") as being impure and improper for taking refuge in, and they instead regarded taking refuge in the Buddha as taking refuge in the dharmakāya of the Buddha. As stated in the \"Mahāvibhāṣā\":\nIn the Pali Canon of Theravada Buddhism, the \"Dhammakāya\" (\"dharmakāya\") is explained as a figurative term, meaning the \"body\" or the sum of the Buddha's teachings. The Canon does not invest the term \"dhammakāya\" with a metaphysical or unrealistic connotation. Jantrasrisalai disagrees though, arguing that the term originally was more connected with the process of enlightenment than the way it later came to be interpreted.\n\nIn the \"atthakathā\"s (commentaries on the Buddhist texts), the interpretation of the word depends on the author. Though both Buddhaghoṣa and Dhammapāla describe \"dhammakāya\" as the nine supramundane states (\"navalokuttaradhamma\"), their interpretations differ in other aspects. Buddhaghoṣa always follows the canonical interpretation, referring to the \"teaching\" of the \"lokuttaradhamma\"s, but Dhammapāla interprets \"dhammakāya\" as the \"spiritual attainments\" of the Buddha. Dhammapāla's interpretation is still essentially Theravāda though, since the Buddha is still considered a human being, albeit an enlightened one. The Buddha's body is still subject to \"kamma\" and limited in the same way as other people's bodies are.\n\nIn a post-canonical text Sri Lankan text called Saddharmaratnākaraya, a distinction is drawn between four different \"kāya\"s: the \"rūpakāya\", \"dharmakāya\", \"nimittakāya\" and \"suñyakāya\". The \"rūpakāya\" refers to the four \"jhāna\"s here; the \"dharmakāya\" refers to the attainment of the first eight of the nine \"lokuttaradhamma\"s; the \"nimittakāya\" refers to the final \"lokuttaradhamma\": \"Nibbāna\" with a physical remainder (\"sopadisesanibbāna\"); and the \"suñyakāya\" refers to \"Nibbāna\" without physical remainder (\"anupādisesanibbāna\"). However, even this teaching of four \"kāya\"s does not really stray outside of orthodox Theravāda tradition.\n\nIn a more unorthodox approach, Maryla Falk has made the argument that in the earliest form of Buddhism, a yogic path existed which involved the acquisition of a \"manomayakāya\" or \"dhammakāya\" and an \"amatakāya\", in which the \"manomayakāya\" or \"dhammakāya\" refers to the attainment of the \"jhānas\", and the \"amatakāya\" to the attainment of insight and the culmination of the path. In this case, the \"kāyas\" refer to a general path and fruit, not only to the person of the Buddha. Although Reynolds does not express agreement with Falk's entire theory, he does consider the idea of an earlier yogic strand worthy of investigation. Furthermore, he points out that there are remarkable resemblances with interpretations that can be found in \"Yogāvacara\" texts, often called Tantric Theravada.\n\nThe usage of the word \"dhammakāya\" is common in Tantric Theravāda texts. It is also a common term in later texts concerning the consecration of Buddha images. In these later texts, which are often descriptions of \"kammaṭṭhāna\" (meditation methods), different parts of the body of the Buddha are associated with certain spiritual attainments, and the practitioner determines to pursue these attainments himself. The idea that certain characteristics or attainments of the Buddha can be pursued is usually considered a Mahāyāna idea, but unlike Mahāyāna, Yogāvacara texts do not describe the Buddha in ontological terms, and commonly use only Theravāda terminology.\n\nThe Dhammakaya Movement of Thai Theravada Buddhism has doctrinal elements which distinguish it from conventional Theravāda Buddhism. Basing itself on the Pali suttas and meditative experience, the movement teaches that the \"Dhammakaya\" is the eternal Buddha within all beings. The \"dhammakaya\" is \"Nibbāna\", and \"Nibbāna\" is equated with the true Self (as opposed to the non-self). In some respects its teachings resemble the Buddha-nature doctrines of Mahayana Buddhism. Paul Williams has commented that this view of Buddhism is similar to ideas found in the shentong teachings of the Jonang school of Tibet made famous by Dolpopa Sherab Gyaltsen.\n\nThe Thai meditation masters who teach of a true self of which they claim to have gained meditative experience are not rejected by Thai Buddhists in general, but tend, on the contrary, to be particularly revered and worshipped in Thailand as arahats or even \"bodhisattvas\", far more so than more orthodox Theravada monks and scholars.\n\nAccording to Paul Williams, there are three ways of seeing the concept of the \"dharmakaya\" in the \"prajnaparamita \" sutras:\nIn the tathagatagarbha sutric tradition, the \"dharmakaya\" is taught by the Buddha to constitute the transcendental, blissful, eternal, and pure Self of the Buddha. \"These terms are found in sutras such as the \"Lankavatara\", \"Gandavyuha\", \"Angulimaliya\", \"Srimala\", and the \"Mahaparinirvana\", where they are used to describe the Buddha, the Truth Body (\"dharmakaya\") and the Buddha-nature.\" They are the \"transcendent results [of spiritual attainment]\".\n\nIn the \"Lotus Sutra\" (sixth fascicle) the Buddha explains that he has always and will always exist to lead beings to their salvation.\n\nPadmasambhava, Karma Lingpa, Gyurme Dorje, Graham Coleman and Thupten Jinpa define \"Buddha-body of Reality\", which is a rendering of the Tibetan \"chos-sku\" and the Sanskrit \"dharmakāya\", as:\nReginald Ray, writing of the Vajrayana view of the \"dharmakaya\", defines it as:\nThe Dalai Lama defines the dharmakaya as \"the realm of the Dharmakaya-- the space of emptiness--where all phenomena, pure and impure, are dissolved. This is the explanation taught by the Sutras and Tantras.\". However he also states that its distinct from the Hindu concept of Brahman because buddhism adheres to the doctrine of emptyness (sunyata).\n\nAccording to Jamgon Kongtrul, the founder of the Rimé movement, in his 19th century commentary to the Lojong slogan, \"To see confusion as the four kayas, the sunyata protection is unsurpassable\", when one meditates on ultimate \"bodhicitta\" and rests in a state where appearances simply appear but there is no clinging to them, the \"dharmakaya\" aspect is that all appearances are empty in nature, the \"sambhogakāya\" is that they appear with clarity, the \"nirmanakaya\" is that this emptiness and clarity occur together, and the natural \"kāya\" aspect is that these are inseparable.\n\nRecently, \"Dharmakaya\" has also become the name for an organization founded by H. E. the 4th Trungram Gyaltrul Rinpoche, and is affiliated with his global organization the United Trungram Buddhist Fellowship (UTBF). \n\nGyaltrul Rinpoche's Dharmakaya organization was founded for the specific purpose of bringing the teachings and meditation practices from the Trungram Tradition of the Karma Kagyu lineage to North America. \n\nIn the early traditions of Buddhism, depictions of Gautama Buddha were neither iconic nor aniconic but depictions of empty space and absence: petrosomatoglyphs (Images of a part of the body carved in rock), for example.\n\nThondup and Talbott identify dharmakaya with the naked (\"sky-clad\"; Sanskrit: \"Digāmbara\"), unornamented, sky-blue Samantabhadra:\nFremantle states:\nThe colour blue is an iconographic polysemic rendering of the \"mahābhūta\" element of the \"pure light\" of space (Sanskrit: \"ākāśa\").\n\nThe conceptually bridging and building poetic device of analogy, as an exemplar where \"dharmakaya\" is evocatively likened to sky and space, is a persistent and pervasive visual metaphor throughout the early Dzogchen and Nyingma literature and functions as a linkage and conduit between the 'conceptual' and 'conceivable' and the 'ineffable' and 'inconceivable' (Sanskrit: \"acintya\"). It is particularly referred to by the \"terma\" \"Gongpa Zangtel\" , a terma cycle revealed by Rigdzin Gödem (1337–1408) and part of the Nyingma \"Northern Treasures\" ().\n\nSawyer conveys the importance of mirror iconography to \"dharmakaya\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7444599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7444599", "title": "Don't-care term", "text": "Don't-care term\n\nIn digital logic, a don't-care term for a function is an input-sequence (a series of bits) for which the function output does not matter. An input that is known never to occur is a can't-happen term. Both these types of conditions are treated the same way in logic design and may be referred to collectively as \"don't-care conditions\" for brevity. The designer of a logic circuit to implement the function need not care about such inputs, but can choose the circuit's output arbitrarily, usually such that the simplest circuit results (minimization).\nExamples of don't-care terms are the binary values 1010 through 1111 (10 through 15 in decimal) for a function that takes a binary-coded decimal (BCD) value, because a BCD value never takes on such values (so called pseudo-tetrades); in the pictures, the circuit computing the lower left bar of a 7-segment display can be minimized to \n\nDon't-care terms are important to consider in minimizing logic circuit design, using Karnaugh maps and the Quine–McCluskey algorithm.\nDon't care optimization can also be used in the development of highly size-optimized assembly or machine code taking advantage of side effects.\n\n\"Don't care\" may also refer to an unknown value in a multi-valued logic system, in which case it may also be called an X value. In the Verilog hardware description language such values are denoted by the letter \"X\". In the VHDL hardware description language such values are denoted (in the standard logic package) by the letter \"X\" (forced unknown) or the letter \"W\" (weak unknown).\n\nAn X value does not exist in hardware. In simulation, an X value can result from two or more sources driving a signal simultaneously, or the stable output of a flip-flop not having been reached. In synthesized hardware, however, the actual value of such a signal will be either 0 or 1, but will not be determinable from the circuit's inputs.\n\nFurther considerations are needed for logic circuits that involve some feedback. That is, those circuits that depend on the previous output(s) of the circuit as well as its current external inputs. Such circuits can be represented by a state machine. It is sometimes possible that some states which are nominally can't happen conditions can accidentally be generated during power up of the circuit or else by random interference. In some cases, there is no combination of inputs that can exit the state machine into a normal operational state. The machine remains stuck in the power-up state or can only be moved between other can't happen states in a walled garden of states. Such states, while nominally can't happen, are not don't care and designers take steps either to ensure that they are really made can't happen, or else if they do happen, that they are transitory and lead to a normal operational state.\n\n"}
{"id": "20087534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20087534", "title": "Empathic concern", "text": "Empathic concern\n\nEmpathic concern refers to other-oriented emotions elicited by and congruent with the perceived welfare of someone in need. These other-oriented emotions include feelings of tenderness, sympathy, compassion, soft-heartedness, and the like. \n\nEmpathic concern is often and wrongly confused with empathy. To empathize is to respond to another's perceived emotional state by experiencing feeling of a similar sort. Empathic concern or sympathy not only include empathizing, but also entails having a positive regard or a non-fleeting concern for the other person.\n\nC. Daniel Batson is one pioneer of the term. His mature definition of the term is \"other-oriented emotion elicited by and congruent with the perceived welfare of someone in need\". Batson explains this definition in the following way:\n\nMany writers other than Batson use different terms for this construct or very similar constructs. Especially popular—perhaps more popular than \"empathic concern\"—are \"sympathy\", \"compassion\" or \"pity\". Other terms include \"the tender emotion\" and \"sympathetic distress\".\n\nHuman beings are strongly motivated to be connected to others. In humans and higher mammals, an impulse to care for offspring is almost certainly genetically hard-wired, although modifiable by circumstance.\n\nAt the behavioral level it is evident from the descriptions of comparative psychologists and ethologists that behaviors homologous to empathic concern can be observed in other mammalian species. Notably, a variety of reports on ape empathic reactions suggest that, apart from emotional connectedness, apes have an explicit appreciation of the other's situation. A good example is consolation, defined as reassurance behavior by an uninvolved bystander towards one of the combatants in a previous aggressive incident.\n\nEmpathic concern is thought to emerge later developmental and to require more self-control than either emotional contagion or personal distress. Developmental research indicates a broad range of social competencies children bring to their interpersonal relationships. As early as 2 years of age, they show (a) the cognitive capacity to interpret, in simple ways, the physical and psychological states of others, (b) the emotional capacity to experience, affectively, the state of others, and (c) the behavioral repertoire that permits the possibility of attempts to alleviate discomfort in others. \n\nBoth personal disposition such as temperament and social context contribute to individual differences in concern for others. Some developmental psychologists have hypothesized that empathic concern for others are essential factors inhibiting aggression toward others.\n\nEmpathic concern may produce an altruistic motivation to reduce the other person's distress. The challenge of demonstrating the existence of altruistic motivation is to show how empathic concern leads to helping in ways that cannot be explained by prevailing theories of egoistic motivation. That is, a clear case needs to be made that it is concern about the other person's welfare, not a desire to improve one's own welfare, that primarily drives one's helping behavior in a particular situation. \n\nEmpirical studies conducted by social psychologist Daniel Batson have demonstrated that empathic concern is felt when one adopts the perspective of another person in need. His work emphasizes the different emotions evoked when imagining another situation from a self-perspective or imagining from another perspective. The former is often associated with personal distress (i.e., feelings of discomfort and anxiety), whereas the latter leads to empathic concern.\n\nSocial neuroscience explores the biological underpinnings of empathic concern and more generally interpersonal sensitivity, using an integrative approach that bridges the biological and social levels. Neural systems, including autonomic functions, that rely on brain stem neuropeptides, such as oxytocin and vasopressin, are plausible correlates for empathic concern. Alternatively, vasopressin might be implicated in situations where a more active strategy is required for an effective response.\n\nAn association between executive functions, underpinned by the prefrontal cortex with reciprocal connections with the limbic system, the sense of agency, and empathic concern has been suggested based on lesion studies in neurological patients and functional neuroimaging experiments in healthy individuals. \n\nThe difference between imaging self versus imaging other is supported by a series of functional neuroimaging studies of affective processing. For instance, Lamm, Batson and Decety (2007) found that participants reported more empathic concern when imagining the pain of others when adopting another perspective, and more personal distress when imagining themselves to be in pain. \n\nThe fMRI scans revealed that imagining self in pain was associated with strong activation in brain areas involved in affective response to threat and pain, including the amygdala, insula and anterior cingulate cortex. Imagine-other instructions produced higher activity in the right temporoparietal junction (or TPJ), which is associated with self-other distinctiveness and the sense of agency.\n\n"}
{"id": "40520924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40520924", "title": "F. John Clendinnen", "text": "F. John Clendinnen\n\nF. John Clendinnen (23 August 1924 – 25 July 2013) was an Australian contemporary philosopher of science interested in induction and empiricism.\n\nHis father, Leslie John Clendinnen and grandfather, Frederick John Clendinnen were radiologists at several hospitals in Melbourne, Australia, where Clendinnen lived. After the Second World War he commenced an undergraduate degree at the University of Melbourne.\n\nAfter graduating with honours in philosophy Clendinnen was employed by the University of Melbourne at the newly created History and Philosophy of Science Department in the Faculty of Arts. He remained in the same department, eventually reaching the rank of reader, and retired in 1989. He was a visiting lecturer at the Philosophy department at the University of Pittsburgh and also at the History and Philosophy department of Indiana University, as well as being a visitor at Princeton University. In 1955 he married the noted Australian historian Inga Clendinnen (née Jewell).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42882477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42882477", "title": "Floris van den Berg", "text": "Floris van den Berg\n\nFloris van den Berg (born 4 February 1973) is a Dutch philosopher, mostly known for his atheism campaign in the Netherlands.\n\nVan den Berg was raised in a liberal Catholic home, but became an atheist activist as an adult.\n\nFollowing the initiative of Ariane Sherine and Richard Dawkins for the Atheist Bus Campaign in the United Kingdom, that was taken up in several other European countries, Floris van den Berg announced the intention to launch a similar campaign in the Netherlands on 12 January 2009. Kees van der Staaij of the ultraconservative Protestant Reformed Political Party (SGP) asked parliamentary questions about the matter to Secretary of State of Transport Tineke Huizinga, and discussed the topic with Van den Berg on 28 January in \"Nova\". However, the bus campaign was abandoned, because the major bus companies Connexxion, Arriva and Veolia do not allow messages of a political or religious nature.\n\nIn January 2017, Floris participated in the EO television series \"Rot op met je religie\" (\"To Hell With Your Religion\"), in which he lives together with two Christians, a Muslim, a Jew and a fellow atheist for two weeks. They go on a journey throughout the country to discover, discuss and critique religious ideas and rituals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4583768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4583768", "title": "Frederick Wilhelmsen", "text": "Frederick Wilhelmsen\n\nFrederick D. Wilhelmsen (1923 – 21 May 1996) was a distinguished Roman Catholic philosopher, noted, both as a professor and as a writer, for his explication and advancement of the Thomistic tradition. He also was a political commentator, assessing American politics and society from a traditionalist perspective and a political thinker, addressing what he perceived to be the failings of secular-liberal democracy. He principally was a professor at the University of Dallas from 1965 to his death in 1996. He also taught at the University of Santa Clara, the Al-Hikma University in Baghdad, the University of Navarra in Pamplona, Spain, and lectured and taught classes at many other universities.\n\nHe was a prolific writer. Besides the book publications listed below, he contributed articles to the following: \"America\", \"The Angelus\", \"The Commonweal\", \"Faith & Reason\", \"The Grail\", \"The Intercollegiate Review\", \"Modern Age\", \"National Review\", \"The Political Science Reviewer\", \"Triumph\", \"The University Bookman\", and \"The Wanderer,\" among others.\n\nHe also was a founding editor of \"Triumph\", a Roman Catholic monthly that sought the sacralization of American society.\n\nIn addition to assessing American politics and society, he was inspired by and extensively reflected upon Spanish politics and society. Alvaro d'Ors, a notable Spanish political philosopher, wrote that Wilhelmsen, an American from Detroit, was \"the best interpreter of Spanish traditionalism, a body of political thought also known as Carlism, after King Charles V (Don Carlos)\".\n\nWilhelmsen enjoyed a lively friendship and correspondence with Marshall McLuhan, who spent time at the University of Dallas in the 1970s.\n\n\"Hilaire Belloc: No Alienated Man. A Study in Christian Integration\". New York: Sheed and Ward, Inc., 1953.\n\n\"Man's Knowledge of Reality: An Introduction to Thomistic Epistemology\". Engelwood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1956.\n\n\"Omega: Last of the Barques\". Westminster, MD: The Newman Press, 1956.\n\n\"The Metaphysics of Love\". New York: Sheed and Ward, 1962.\n\n\"El problema de la trascendencia en la metafísica actual\". Madrid: Ediciones Rialp, S.A. and Publicaciones de la Facultad de Filosofía y Letras de la Universidad de Navarra, 1963.\n\n\"El problema de Occidente y los cristianos\". Seville, Spain: Publicaciones de la Delegación Nacional del Requeté, 1964.\n\n\"La ortodoxia pública y los poderes de la irracionalidad\". Madrid-Mexico City: Ediciones Rialp, S.A., Colección O Crece o Muere, 1965.\n\n\"The Paradoxical Structure of Existence\". Irving, TX: The University of Dallas Press, 1970.\n\n\"Así pensamos\". \"Published under the pseudonym \"Un Requeté\") Madrid: Editorial Tradicionalista, 1977.\n\n\"Christianity and Political Philosophy\". Athens, GA: University of Georgia Press, 1978.\n\n\"Citizen of Rome: Reflections from the Life of a Roman Catholic\". LaSalle, IL: Sherwood Sugden & Company, Publishers, 1980.\n\n\"Persona y sociedad\", ed., Nilda E. Bonansea. San Luis, Argentina: Universidad Nacional de San Luís, 1984.\n\n\"Being and Knowing: Reflections of a Thomist\". Albany, NY: Preserving Christian Publications, 1991.\n\n\"Under Full Sail: Reflections and Tales\". Frasier, MI: Alcuin Press, 1996.\n\n\"Los saberes políticos (ciencia, filosofía y teología políticas)\". Presentation by Miguel Ayuso. Barcelona: Ediciones Scire, SL, 2006.\n\n(with Jane Bret) \"The War in Man: Media and Machines\". Athens, GA: University of Georgia Press, 1970.\n\n(with Jane Bret) \"Telepolitics: The Politics of Neuronic Man\". Montreal and New York: Tundra Books, 1972.\n\nGuardini, Romano. \"The End of the Modern World: A Search for Orientation\". Trans. J. Theman and H. Burke. New York: Sheed and War, 1956.\n\n\"Seeds of Anarchy: A Study of Campus Revolution\". Dallas: Argus Press, 1969.\n\nAllitt, Patrick. \"Catholic Intellectuals and Conservative Politics in America, 1950-1985\". Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1993.\n\nAyuso, Miguel. \"Frederick D. Wilhelmsen y España\". Foreword to R.A. Herrera, James Lehrberger, O.Cist., and M.E. Bradford, eds. \"Saints, Sovereigns, and Scholars: Studies in Honor of Frederick D. Wilhelmsen\". New York: Peter Lang Publishing, Inc., 1993.\n\nEwbank, Michael B. \"The Difference Diversity Makes\". In R.A. Herrera, James Lehrberger, O.Cist., and M.E. Bradford, eds. \"Saints, Sovereigns, and Scholars: Studies in Honor of Frederick D. Wilhelmsen\". New York: Peter Lang Publishing, Inc., 1993.\n\nHenry, Michael. Introduction to \"Christianity and Political Philosophy,\" by Frederick D. Wilhelmsen. New Brunswick, N.J.: Transaction Publishers, 2014.\n\nHerrera, R.A., James Lehrberger, O.Cist, and M.E. Bradford, eds., \"Saints, Sovereigns, and Scholars: Studies in Honor of\nFrederick D. Wilhelmsen\". New York: Peter Lang Publishing, Inc., 1993.\n\nLee, Patrick. Introduction to \"The Metaphysics of Love,\" by Frederick D. Wilhelmsen. New Brunswick, N.J.: Transaction Publishers, 2015.\n\nLehrberger, O. Cist. James J. \"Christendom’s Troubador: Frederick D. Wilhelmsen\". \"The Intercollegiate Review\" (Spring, 1997): 52-55.\n\nLehrberger, O. Cist. James J. Introduction to \"The Paradoxical Structure of Existence,\" by Frederick D. Wilhelmsen. New Brunswick, N.J.: Transaction Publishers, 2015.\n\nKirk, Russell. \"An Adventurer-Professor\". In \"Confessions of a Bohemian Tory\". New York: Fleet Publishing Co., 1963.\n\nMarshner, William. Introduction to \"Being and Knowing: Reflections of a Thomist,\" by Frederick D. Wilhelmsen. New Brunswick, N.J.: Transaction Publishers, 2015. \n\nNash, George H. \"The Conservative Intellectual Movement in America\". New York: Basic Books, 1976.\n\nNelson, Jeffrey O. \"Wilhelmsen, Frederick D\". In \"American Conservatism: An Encyclopedia\", eds., Bruce Frohnen, Jeremy Beer, and Jeffrey O. Nelson, 921-923. Wilmington, DE: ISI Books, 2006.\n\nPopowski, Mark D. \"The Political Thought of Frederick D. Wilhelmsen.\" \"The Catholic Social Science Review\" 20 (2015): 21-38.\n\nPopowski, Mark D. \"The Rise and Fall of Triumph: The History of a Radical Roman Catholic Magazine, 1966-1976\". Lanham, MD: Lexington Books, 2011.\n\nSanta Cruz, Manuel de [Alberto Ruiz de Galarreta]. \"Apuntes y documentos para la historia del Tradicionalismo español, 1939-1966\". Madrid, 29 volumes, 1979-1991, volumes 22-II, 23, 25-I and II, 26 and 27.\n\nSchaefer, Thomas. \"Up from Alienation: The Wilhelmsian Vision of the Human Person\". In R.A. Herrera, James Lehrberger, O.Cist., and M.E. Bradford, eds. \"Saints, Sovereigns, and Scholars: Studies in Honor of Frederick D. Wilhelmsen\". New York: Peter Lang Publishing, Inc., 1993.\n\nSchiller, Craig. \"The Guilty Conscience of a Conservative\". New Rochelle, NY: Arlington House Publishers, 1978.\n\nUnsigned. \"Frederick Daniel Wilhelmsen (Eminent Professor and Catholic Intellectual): A Tribute from the University of Dallas\". Irving, TX: University of Dallas, 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "14291905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14291905", "title": "Gerrit De Geest", "text": "Gerrit De Geest\n\nGerrit Gaby Aimé De Geest (born 19 September 1960, Aalst, Belgium) is a Belgian legal scholar and writer specializing in contract law, law and economics, and comparative law.\n\nHe earned his J.D. in 1983, M.E. in 1986 and Ph.D. in 1993 from Ghent University. With Boudewijn Bouckaert, he was co-editor of \"Bibliography of law and economics\" (1992) and of the 5-volume \"Encyclopedia of Law and Economics\". He is consultant editor of the \"European Review of Contract Law\" and general editor of the book series \"New Horizons in Law & Economics\". He is a member of the European Group on an Integrated Contract Law, the Economic Impact Group of the Common Principles of European Contract Law, and past president of the European Association of Law and Economics (2001-2004). He was previously a Professor at Ghent University (1997-1999), University of Antwerp (U.I.A.) (1999-2000), and Utrecht University (2000-2009). He was a visiting teacher at Stockholm University and the Catholic University of Brussels. Since September 2009, he has been Professor of Law and Economics at Washington University School of Law in St. Louis, Missouri. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24550441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24550441", "title": "Jalaladdin Davani", "text": "Jalaladdin Davani\n\nJalaluddin Muhammad bin As'ad dawani (1426–1502 in Dawan, Iran), often referred to as Jalaluddin Dawani, Jalal Al-Din Muhammad ibn Asad Al-Dawani, or Allamah Mohaghegh, was a leading philosopher, theologian, jurist and poet of 15th Century Iran. He spent most of his life in Dawan and he had strong connections with the local Qara Qoyunlu, Aq Qoyunlu, Timurid and Ottoman rulers, accepting a number of important government positions from them. He wrote a number of works on theology, philosophy and law. He died shortly after the founding of the Safavid dynasty, but before Shah Isma'il I captured the province of Fars.\n\nDavani began his studies with his father, who was a student of Mir Gorgani (d.1413), but moved to Shiraz while he was still young to study theology, philosophy, logic, fiqh and usul ul-fiqh under notable scholars such as Homām-al-Dīn Golbārī, Safiuddin Iji, Muhiyudin Muhammad Kushkenari Ansari (Himself a student of Ibn Hajar al-Asqalani, who was also a student of Gorgani). Davani was often in disagreement with his contemporary and fellow philosopher-theologian, Sadruddin Dashtaki, who frequently criticized the former's views and writings.\n\nDavani was associated with the royal courts of his time. During his youth, Yusuf, the son of the Qara Qoyunlu Sultan Jahanshah, appointed him to the post of Sadr (religious supervisor). However, he quickly resigned and began teaching at Madrasah-e Begum. He wrote his \"Akhlaq-e Jalali\" (lit. 'majestic manners'), an ethical manual modeled on Nasiruddin Tusi's \"Akhlaq e-Nasiri\", for the Aq Qoyunlu Ozun Hasan. His Arz Nameh was written for the latter's son, Khalil. Davani later accepted the position of chief judge for the province of Fars from Sultan Ya'qub. He wrote a discussion on Ali bin Muhammad Qoushchi's commentary on the famous Tajrid ul-Kalam by Nasiruddin Tusi for both the sons of Ozun Hasan. He did oppose Sultan Ya'qub's centralization policies towards the end of the latter's life, but remained on good terms with Sultan Rostam. As well as his strong connection to Shiraz's Turkmen rulers, he was also associated with the Timurid court of Abu Sa'id, dedicated a number of books on Ishraqi philosophy to Sultan Mahmud I of Gujarat and another text to the Ottoman Sultan, Beyazid II.\n\nDawani's school of thought is a matter of dispute. Later authors portray Dawani as a Twelver Shi'a practicing Taqiyyah during a time of political turmoil, citing a vision he had of the Twelver Imam Reza while visiting Najaf and a book of poetry praising the Twelve Imams and condemning Abu Bakr, Umar, and Uthman as evidence of this. This was likely written when the Safavid Shah Isma'il I was advancing on Fars, following his capture of Tabriz and declaration of Twelver Shi'ism as the state religion of his dynasty. However, he rejected the Shah's messianic claims and died before the latter put to death the Sunni scholars of the city for refusing to convert to the official creed. Furthermore, in his earlier works he clearly refers to the temporal Sunni rulers as the \"leader of the age\" (while stating that the Twelver Shi'a believe this is Muhammad bin Hasan who is in occultation) and wrote openly anti-Twelver commentaries from an Ash'arite perspective.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2553561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2553561", "title": "Jean Capréolus", "text": "Jean Capréolus\n\nJean Capréolus (also Joannes or John Capreolus) (born c. 1380 in the diocese of Rodez, France; died in that city 6 April 1444) was a French Dominican theologian and Thomist.\n\nHe is sometimes known as the \"Prince of the Thomists\". His \"Four Books of Defenses of the Theology of St. Thomas Aquinas\" can be said to have sparked a revival in Thomism.\n\nOnly scant details of his personal history are known. He was a Dominican affiliated with the province of Toulouse, and a general chapter of his order at Poitiers in 1407 assigned him to lecture on \"The Sentences\" at the University of Paris. He began in 1408 and achieved success.\n\nThe following year he finished the first part of his celebrated defensive on commentary on the theology of St. Thomas Aquinas. He passed examinations for degrees at the Sorbonne in 1411 and in 1415. After serving for some time as regent of studies at Toulouse, he repaired to Rodez where he laboured at his commentaries completing the three remaining parts in 1426, 1428 and 1433.\n\nIn the preface of a compendium of Capreolus's work by Isidore de Isolanis, it is stated that these manuscripts once narrowly escaped destruction by fire, a lay brother having saved them, to the joy of the author, who was then advanced in years. The same authority describes the erudite commentator as having a devotion to the Blessed Virgin.\n\nThough following the order of \"The Sentences\", the commentaries of Capreolus are a calm, learned, and penetrating exposition of the teaching of St. Thomas, as well as a comprehensive defence against sundry opponents and critics, including Scotus, Henry of Ghent, John of Ripa, Guido the Carmelite, Aureolus, Durandus, Gregory of Rimini, William of Ockham, and other Nominalists. Copious and apt citations show that the author mastered Aristotle and his Arabic commentator, Averroes; but a scrupulous fidelity to the Angelical Doctor, that earned for him the extraordinary appellation of \"Soul of St. Thomas\", is his chief characteristic.\n\nThere is nothing in the wide field of the doctrinal discussions of his time that Capreolus did not study and elucidate, in a style terse and vigorous. His work is one of the enduring achievements of Scholasticism.\n\nThe commentaries, bearing slightly variant titles, were published in four folio volumes at Venice, 1483, 1514, 1519, 1589. ln 1881, Bishop Borret of Rodez, who had made the life and works of Capreolus, the object of considerable research, suggested a critically revised edition of the commentaries, which was at length undertaken by the Dominicans. Its publication was begun at Tours in 1900 under the title: \"Johannis Capreoli Tholosani, Ordinis Praedicatorum, Thomistarum principis, Defensiones Theologiae Divi Thomae Aq.de novo editae cura et studio RR. PP. Ceslai Paban et Thomae Pegues\". Early compendiums of the work by Paul Soncinas and by Sylvester Prierias were much used in their day.\n"}
{"id": "25960247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25960247", "title": "Jes Bertelsen", "text": "Jes Bertelsen\n\nJes Bertelsen (born March 27, 1946), Dr. phil. in History of ideas, is a Danish spiritual teacher and author. Since 1982 he has been the leader of Vækstcenteret (i.e. \"The Growth Center\"), which he and his wife at the time, Hanne Kizach, founded in Norre-Snede Municipality, Denmark. His teachings are based on an experiential investigation of the nature of consciousness, using comparative analysis of Eastern and Western spiritual teachings and consciousness practices on a foundation of modern psychological, philosophical and scientific approaches. He teaches in Danish. A number of his books have been translated into German.\n\nJes Bertelsen studied History of Ideas (\"Idehistorie\") at Aarhus University, Denmark with founder of this interdisciplinary study, Danish philosopher Professor Johannes Sløk. Jes Bertelsen was employed and lectured at Aarhus University from 1970 to 1982.\nJes Bertelsen has written 20 books beginning with the 1972 gold medal award winning MA thesis “Kategori og afgørelse, strukturer i Kirkegaards tænkning”. His most recent book is from 2008, \"Bevidsthedens flydende lys - Betragtninger over begrebet apperception hos Immanuel Kant og Longchenpa\". His doctoral dissertation was entitled: ”Ouroboros – en undersøgelse af selvets strukturer”, 1974.\nIn the later part of his authorship he more or less departs from the academic tradition and focuses on psychology, self-development and philosophy of consciousness seen in relationship to meditative instructions. From around 2006 he has also been involved in scientific inquiry into the neurological results of meditative practice. In 2009 he was co-author of an article published in the scientific journal \"NeuroReport\": \"Long-term meditation is associated with increased gray matter density in the brain stem\".\n\nFrom 1978 to the early 1980s Jes Bertelsen was in an ongoing training with the Irish healer Bob Moore, whose understanding of the human energy system had roots in the theosophical tradition. In Jes Bertelsen’s early work this influence is seen in his focus on the connections between ordinary consciousness, the chakra system, non-physical energy systems, symbols from dream states, states of expanded consciousness and clairvoyance. Among Jes Bertelsen’s sources of inspiration are also the descriptions of the Christ in the Gospel of Thomas, and the Heart prayer of Eastern Orthodox Christianity. The Eastern Tantric traditions have been a source of inspiration in his work on the relationship between vital energy, sexuality, love and spirituality.\n\nIn 1989 Jes Bertelsen met the Tibetan Lama Tulku Urgyen Rinpoche, who authorized Jes Bertelsen to teach Dzogchen, the pointing out instruction, Tregchöd and thödgal; and to do so using his own judgment as to the most appropriate way to assimilate these teachings into Western culture. This influence is clearly seen in subsequent books as well as in Jes Bertelsen’s teachings, which over time increasingly has focused on meditative training.\n\nJes Bertelsen maintains that it is possible to train the mind, and he sees meditative practice as a gradual progression towards both quieting the mind and allowing greater empathic openness and heartfelt presence. Like many other voices in the international dialogue about consciousness, spirituality and religion he thinks it is possible to free the universal elements of spiritual practice from traditional religious contexts and make them available for general use. For this purpose he has created simple and generally applicable teaching tools that teachers can use with school children.\n\nIn several of his books, Jes Bertelsen describes the unique possibilities and challenges inherent in the secularized Scandinavian societies for developing an experientially based spirituality. He emphasizes a distinction between an inherent spirituality shared by everyone, and the individual option of actively training and developing what he refers to as spiritual intelligence. In his view such an effort is to be based on \"democratic understanding, openness toward the Christian cultural values, equality between men and women and a scientific approach\".\n\nThe Danish religious sociologist Helle Hinge has characterized Jes Bertelsen as an example of the New Age movement. In the Danish encyclopedia, Den Store Danske Encyklopædi, religious historian Mikael Rothstein describes Jes Bertelsen as being \"the center of an actual religious formation\", and erroneously describes Jes Bertelsen as a \"depth psychologist\". However, Jes Bertelsen emphatically refutes both the New Age and religious labels. About the New Age worldview he has said that it contains numerous sensible elements, but that it can also be superficial and characterized by promises of quick solutions.\n\nThe late leader of the Christian apologetic Danish organization Dialogcenteret, dr. theol. Johannes Aagaard, has criticized Jes Bertelsen for mixing Christian and Eastern traditions, and has classified him as \"one of the most influential writers and ideologists among the new religious groupings in Denmark\" and later as \"gnostic\". A similarly Christian faith-based criticism has been put forth since 2006 by Annette Leleur and Frank Robert Pedersen, both connected to Vækstcenteret until the early 1990s. Since 2007 they have publicized their criticisms in Danish under the name Infogruppen. In their view Jes Bertelsen represents a form of elitist thinking which they find irreconcilable with the foundational principles of democracy. They find it particularly reprehensible that Jes Bertelsen in later years has focused on developing teaching tools for awareness training and spirituality in the public school system, since they find that a person with Jes Bertelsen’s background is unable to do so impartially.\n\nAs is the case with other charismatic individuals, opinions about Jes Bertelsen span from uncritical enthusiasm to deeply critical attitudes. From a position between these extremes he is regarded as a Danish pioneer in rediscovering a spiritual view of life in modern times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34074829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34074829", "title": "Lexical entrainment", "text": "Lexical entrainment\n\nLexical entrainment is the phenomenon in conversational linguistics of the process of the subject adopting the reference terms of their interlocutor. In practice, it acts as a mechanism of the cooperative principle in which both parties to the conversation employ lexical entrainment as a progressive system to develop \"conceptual pacts\" (a working temporary conversational terminology) to ensure maximum clarity of reference in the communication between the parties; this process is necessary to overcome the ambiguity inherent in the multitude of synonyms that exist in language. \n\nLexical entrainment arises by two cooperative mechanisms: \n\nOnce lexical entrainment has come to determine the phrasing for a referent, both parties will use that terminology for the referent for the duration, even if it proceeds to violate the Gricean maxim of quantity. For example, if one wants to refer to a brown loafer out of a set of shoes that consist of: the loafer, a sneaker, and a high-heeled shoe, they will not use \"the shoe\" to describe the object as this phrasing does not unambiguously describe one item in the set under consideration. They will also not call the object \"the brown loafer\" which would violate Grice's maxim of quantity. The speaker will settle on using the term \"the loafer\" as it is just informative enough without giving too much information. \n\nAnother important factor is lexical availability; the ease of conceptualizing a referent in a certain way and then retrieving and producing a label for it. For many objects the most available labels are basic nouns; for example, the word \"dog\". Instead of saying \"animal\" or \"husky\" for the referent, most subjects will default to \"dog\".\nIf in a set of objects one is to refer to either a husky, a table, and a poster, people are still most likely to use the word \"dog.\" This is technically a violation of Grice's maxim of quantity, as using the term \"animal\" is ideal.\n\nLexical entrainment has applications in natural language processing in computers as well as human–human interaction. Currently, the adaptability of computers to modify their referencing to the terms of their human interlocutor is limited, so the entrainment adaptation falls to the human operator; this phenomenon is readily demonstrated in Brennan's 1996 experiment.\n"}
{"id": "39021541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39021541", "title": "List of feminist philosophers", "text": "List of feminist philosophers\n\nThis is a list of feminist philosophers, that is, people who theorize about gender issues and female perspectives in different areas of philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40619050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40619050", "title": "Logic of argumentation", "text": "Logic of argumentation\n\nThe logic of argumentation (LA) is a formalised description of the ways in which humans reason and argue about propositions. It is used, for example, in computer artificial intelligence systems in the fields of medical diagnosis and prognosis, and research chemistry.\n\nKrause et al. appear to have been the first authors to use the term \"logic of argumentation\" in a paper about their model for using argumentation for qualitative reasoning under uncertainty, although the approach had been used earlier in prototype computer applications to support medical diagnosis. Their ideas have been developed further, and used in applications for predicting chemical toxicity and xenobiotic metabolism, for example.\nIn LA arguments for and arguments against a proposition are distinct; an argument for a proposition contributes nothing to the case against it, and vice versa. Among other things, this means that LA can support contradiction – proof that an argument is true and that it is false. Arguments supporting the case for and arguments supporting the case against are aggregated separately, leading to a single assessment of confidence in the case for and a single assessment of confidence in the case against. Then the two are resolved to provide a single measure of confidence in the proposition.\n\nIn most implementations of LA the default aggregated value is equal to the strongest value in the set of arguments for or against the proposition. Having more than one argument in agreement does not automatically increase confidence because it cannot be assumed that the arguments are independent when reasoning under uncertainty. If there is evidence that arguments are independent and there is a case for increased confidence when they agree, this is sometimes expressed in additional rules of the form \"If A and B then ...\".\n\nThe process of aggregation and resolution can be represented as follows:\n\nT = Resolve[Max{For(Ca,x, Cb,y, ...)}, Max{Against(Ca,x, Cb,y, ...)}]\n\nwhere T is the overall assessment of confidence in a proposition; Resolve[] is a function which returns the single confidence value which is the resolution of any pair of values; For and Against are the sets of arguments supporting and opposing the proposition, respectively; Ca,x, Cb,y, …, are the confidence values for those arguments; Max{...} is a function which returns the strongest member of the set upon which it operates (For or Against).\n\nArguments may assign confidence to propositions that themselves influence confidence in other arguments, and one rule may be undercut by another. A computer implementation can recognize these inter-relationships to construct reasoning trees automatically.\n\n"}
{"id": "2361022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2361022", "title": "Luis de Molina", "text": "Luis de Molina\n\nLuis de Molina (; 29 September 1535, Cuenca, Spain – 12 October 1600, Madrid, Spain) was a Spanish Jesuit priest and scholastic, a staunch defender of free will in the controversy over human liberty and God's grace. His theology is known as Molinism.\n\nFrom 1551 to 1562, Molina studied law in Salamanca, philosophy in Alcala de Henares, and theology in Coimbra. After 1563, he became a professor at the University of Coimbra, and afterward taught at the University of Évora, Portugal. From this post he was called, at the end of twenty years, to the chair of moral theology in Madrid, where he died.\n\nBesides other works he wrote \"De liberi arbitrii cum gratiae donis, divina praescientia, praedestinatione et reprobatione concordia\" (4 vo., Lisbon, 1588); a commentary on the first part of the \"Summa Theologiae\" of Thomas Aquinas (2 vols., fol., Cuenca, 1593); and a treatise \"De jure et justitia\" (6 vols., 1593–1609).\n\nIt is to the first of these that his fame is principally due. It was an attempt to reconcile, in words at least, the Augustinian doctrines of predestination and efficacious grace with the new ideals of the Renaissance concerning free will. Assuming that man is free to perform or not to perform any act whatever, Molina maintains that this circumstance renders the grace of God neither unnecessary nor impossible: not impossible, for God never fails to bestow grace upon those who ask it with sincerity; and not unnecessary, for grace, although not an efficient, is still a sufficient cause of salvation (\"gratia mere sufficiens\"). Nor, in Molina's view, does his doctrine of free will exclude predestination. The omniscient God, by means of His \"scientia media\" (the phrase is Molina's invention, though the idea is also to be found in his older contemporary Fonseca), or power of knowing future contingent events, foresees how we shall employ our own free-will and treat his proffered grace, and upon this foreknowledge he can found his predestinating decrees.\n\nThese doctrines, which opposed both traditional understanding of Augustinism and Thomism concerning the respective roles of free-will and efficacious grace, and the teachings of Martin Luther and John Calvin, excited violent controversy in some quarters, especially on the part of the Dominican order and of the Jansenists, and at last rendered it necessary for the pope (Clement VIII) to intervene. At first (1594) he simply enjoined silence on both parties so far as Spain was concerned; but ultimately, in 1598, he appointed the Congregatio de auxiliis Gratiae for the settlement of the dispute, which became more and more a party one. After holding very numerous sessions, the congregation was able to decide nothing, and in 1607 its meetings were suspended by Paul V, who in 1611 prohibited all further discussion of the question de auxiliis and of discussions about efficacious grace, and studious efforts were made to control the publication even of commentaries on Aquinas .\n\nSeveral regent Masters of the Dominican College of St. Thomas, the future Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas (\"Angelicum\"), were involved in the Molinist controversy. Dominicans Diego Alvarez (c.1550–1635), author of the \"De auxiliis divinae gratiae et humani arbitrii viribus\", and Tomas de Lemos (1540–1629) were given the responsibility of representing the Dominican Order in debates before Pope Clement VIII and Pope Paul V.\n\nThe Molinist subsequently passed into the Jansenist controversy.\n\nMolina was also the first Jesuit to write at length on economics and contract law. Prior to Molina’s time, economic thought was closely tied to Catholic moral theology. Molina was part of an emerging trend which contributed to the separation of analysis of economic activity from theological questions of sin. This trend was a significant step towards the emergence of modern economics with Adam Smith in the 18th century. In his writings on economics, Molina helped further develop a theory of price inflation proposed by Juan de Medina and Martin de Azpilcueta in Salamanca, writing that \"[i]n equal circumstances, the more abundant money is in one place, so much less is its value to buy things or to acquire things that are not money.\"\n\n\n\nA full account of Molina's theology will be found in Gerhard Schneeman's \"Entstehung der thomistisch-molinistischen Controverse\", published in the Appendices (Nos. 9, 13, 14) to the Jesuit periodical, \"Stimmen aus Maria-Laach\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18176450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18176450", "title": "Mark Sacks", "text": "Mark Sacks\n\nMark D. Sacks (29 December 1953 – 17 June 2008) was a British philosopher best known for his work on Kant, Post-Kantian idealism, and the epistemological tradition in European Philosophy. He was one of the few philosophers in Britain who sought to integrate the Analytic philosophy tradition with Continental philosophy. \n\nHe founded the European Journal of Philosophy in 1993, which is now a leading venue for work on Continental philosophy. He was a professor of philosophy at the University of Essex until his death. \n\nHis first degree was in philosophy, at Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He obtained a doctorate in philosophy from King's College, Cambridge under the supervision of Bernard Williams. \n\nHe died from prostate cancer at the age of 54.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17261595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17261595", "title": "Matriarchal religion", "text": "Matriarchal religion\n\nA matriarchal religion is a religion that focuses on a goddess or goddesses. The term is most often used to refer to theories of prehistoric matriarchal religions that were proposed by scholars such as Johann Jakob Bachofen, Jane Ellen Harrison, and Marija Gimbutas, and later popularized by second-wave feminism. In the 20th century, a movement to revive these practices resulted in the Goddess movement.\n\nThe concept of a prehistoric matriarchy was introduced in 1861 when Johann Jakob Bachofen published \"Mother Right: An Investigation of the Religious and Juridical Character of Matriarchy in the Ancient World\". He postulated that the historical patriarchates were a comparatively recent development, having replaced an earlier state of primeval matriarchy, and postulated a \"chthonic-maternal\" prehistoric religion. Bachofen presents a model where matriarchal society and chthonic mystery cults are the second of four stages of the historical development of religion.\nThe first stage he called \"Hetaerism\", characterized as a paleolithic hunter-and-gatherer society practicing a polyamorous and communistic lifestyle. The second stage is the Neolithic, a matriarchal lunar stage of agriculture with an early form of Demeter the dominant deity. This was followed by a \"Dionysian\" stage of emerging patriarchy, finally succeeded by the \"Apollonian\" stage of patriarchy and the appearance of civilization in classical antiquity. The idea that this time period was a golden age that was displaced with the advent of patriarchy was first described by Friedrich Engels in his \"The Origin of the Family, Private Property, and the State\".\n\nIn the early 1900s, historian Jane Ellen Harrison put forward the theory that the Olympian pantheon replaced an earlier worship of earth goddesses.\n\nRobert Graves postulated a prehistoric matriarchal religion in the 1950s, in his \"The Greek Myths\" and \"The White Goddess\", and gave a detailed depiction of a future society with a matriarchal religion in his novel \"Seven Days in New Crete\".\nInspired by Graves and other sources was the Austrian Surrealist Wolfgang Paalen who, in his painting \"Pays interdit\" (\"Forbidden Land\"), draws an apocalyptic landscape dominated by a female goddess and, as symbols of the male gods, fallen, meteorite-like planets.\n\nThe ideas of Bachofen and Graves were taken up in the 1970s by second-wave feminists, such as author Merlin Stone, who took the Paleolithic Venus figurines as evidence of prehistorical matriarchal religion. She presents matriarchal religions as involving a \"cult of serpents\" as a major symbol of spiritual wisdom, fertility, life, strength.\n\nAdditionally, anthropologist Marija Gimbutas introduced the field of feminist archaeology in the 1970s. Her books \"The Goddesses and Gods of Old Europe\" (1974), \"The Language of the Goddess\" (1989), and \"The Civilization of the Goddess\" (1991) became standard works for the theory that a patriarchic or \"androcratic\" culture originated in the Bronze Age, replacing a Neolithic Goddess-centered worldview. These theories were presented as scholarly hypotheses, albeit from an ideological viewpoint, in the 1970s, but they also influenced feminist spirituality and especially feminist branches of Neo-paganism that also arose during the 1970s (see Dianic Wicca and Reclaiming (Neopaganism)), so that Matriarchal Religion is also a contemporary new religious movement within the larger field of neopaganism, generally known as the Goddess movement.\n\nMost modern anthropologists reject the idea of a prehistoric matriarchy, but recognize matrilineal and matrifocal groups throughout human history. In recent years, genetic and other evidence has accumulated in support of the view that early human kinship was probably matrilineal,; on the other hand, matrilineal descent does not necessarily imply matriarchal political rule.\n\nThe Mother Goddess is a widely recognized archetype in psychoanalysis, and worship of mother earth and sky goddesses is known from numerous religious traditions of historical polytheism, especially in classical civilizations, when temples were built to many Goddesses.\n\nDebate continues on whether ancient matriarchal religion historically existed. American scholar Camille Paglia has argued that \"Not a shred of evidence supports the existence of matriarchy anywhere in the world at any time,\" and further that \"The moral ambivalence of the great mother Goddesses has been conveniently forgotten by those American feminists who have resurrected them.\" In her book \"The Myth of Matriarchal Prehistory\" (2000), scholar Cynthia Eller discusses the origins of the idea of matriarchal prehistory, evidence for and against its historical accuracy, and whether the idea is good for modern feminism.\n"}
{"id": "30329512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30329512", "title": "Modern constructivism", "text": "Modern constructivism\n\nModern constructivism also known as conventional constructivism is the mainstream variant of constructivism in international relations theory. It can be distinguished from post-modern constructivism. Modern constructivism has an epistemology indebted to positivism.\n\n"}
{"id": "575920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=575920", "title": "Oncomouse", "text": "Oncomouse\n\nThe OncoMouse or Harvard mouse is a type of laboratory mouse (\"Mus musculus\") that has been genetically modified using modifications designed by Philip Leder and Timothy A Stewart of Harvard University to carry a specific gene called an activated oncogene (v-Ha-ras under the control of the mouse mammary tumor virus promoter). The activated oncogene significantly increases the mouse's susceptibility to cancer, and thus makes the mouse suitable for cancer research. The rights to the invention were owned by DuPont until recently. The USPTO found that the patent expired in 2005, which means that the Oncomouse is now free for use by other parties (although the name is not, as \"OncoMouse\" is a registered trademark).\n\nPatent applications on the OncoMouse were filed back in the mid-1980s in numerous countries such as in the United States, in Canada, in Europe through the European Patent Office (EPO) and in Japan.\n\nIn Canada, the Supreme Court in 2002 rejected the patent in \"Harvard College v. Canada (Commissioner of Patents)\", overturning a Federal Court of Appeal verdict which ruled in favor of the patent. However, on 7 October 2003, Canadian patent 1,341,442 was granted to Harvard College. The patent was amended to omit the \"composition of matter\" claims on the transgenic mice. The Supreme Court had rejected the entire patent application on the basis of these claims, but Canadian patent law allowed the amended claims to grant under rules that predated the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and the patent remains valid until 2020.\n\nEuropean patent application 85304490.7 was filed in June 1985 by \"The President and Fellows of Harvard College\". It was initially refused in 1989 by an Examining Division of the European Patent Office (EPO) among other things on the grounds that the European Patent Convention (EPC) excludes patentability of animals per se. The decision was appealed and the Board of Appeal held that \"animal varieties\" were excluded of patentability by the EPC (and especially its ), while \"animals\" (as such) were not excluded from patentability. The Examining Division then granted the patent in 1992 (its publication number is ).\n\nThe European patent was then opposed by several third parties, more precisely by 17 opponents, notably on the grounds laid out in , according to which \"inventions, the publication or exploitation of which would be contrary to \"ordre public\" or morality are excluded from patentability. After oral proceedings took place in November 2001, the patent was maintained in amended form. This decision was then appealed and the appeal decision was taken on July 6, 2004. The case was eventually remitted to the first instance, i.e. the Opposition Division, with the order to maintain the patent on a newly amended form. However, revocation of the patent was eventually published on August 16, 2006, more than 20 years after the filing date (the normal term of a European patent under ), for failure to pay the fees and to file the translations of the amended claims under .\n\nIn 1988, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) granted (filed Jun 22, 1984, issued Apr 12, 1988, expired April 12, 2005) to Harvard College claiming “a transgenic non-human mammal whose germ cells and somatic cells contain a recombinant activated oncogene sequence introduced into said mammal…” The claim explicitly excluded humans, apparently reflecting moral and legal concerns about patents on human beings, and about modification of the human genome. Remarkably, there were no US courts called to decide on the validity of this patent. Two separate patents were issued to Harvard College covering methods for providing a cell culture from a transgenic non-human animal (; filed Mar 22, 1988, issued Feb 11, 1992, expired Feb 11, 2009) and testing methods using transgenic mice expressing an oncogene (; filed Sep 19, 1991, issued Jul 20, 1999, expires July 20, 2016). The patent has been found to expire in 2005 by the USPTO. Dupont is currently bringing suit in the Eastern District of Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "8307360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8307360", "title": "Operator (linguistics)", "text": "Operator (linguistics)\n\nIn generative grammar, the technical term operator denotes a type of expression that enters into an a-bar movement dependency. One often says that the operator \"binds a variable\".\n\nOperators are often determiners, such as interrogatives ('which', 'who', 'when', etc.), or quantifiers ('every', 'some', 'most', 'no'), but adverbs such as sentential negation ('not') have also been treated as operators. It is also common within generative grammar to hypothesise phonetically empty operators whenever a clause type or construction exhibits symptoms of the presence of an a-bar movement dependency, such as sensitivity to extraction islands.\n\nThe following examples illustrate the use of the term operator within generative grammatical theory.\n\nThe following example is a case of so-called \"wh-movement\":\n\n1. What did Bill say he wants to buy __ ?\n\nHere, \"what\" is an operator, binding a phonetically empty \"variable\" indicated here as \"__\".\n\nThe next example illustrates quantifier raising (QR):\n\n2. I didn't do something.\n\nIn this example, \"something\" occupies the position of a variable which is bound by an operator in the beginning of the sentence.\n\nThis example may require some explanation. The sentence is ambiguous between an \"I did nothing\" reading and another, \"there's something I didn't do\" reading. On the latter reading, one would represent the sentence as follows within generative grammar (omitting irrelevant details):\n\n3. Something [I didn't do x]\n\nHere, \"x\" is the variable, and \"something\" is the operator binding that variable.\n\nSince no movement appears to have taken place in the original sentence, the movement is said to be \"covert\", and it is usually referred to as \"Quantifier Raising\" or \"QR\". Various theories within generative grammar and linguistic semantics have tried to explain this phenomenon, and various semantic approaches argue that no syntactic movement is present in such sentences\n\nThe following is an example which is treated within generative grammar in terms of an invisible operator binding an invisible variable:\n\n4. John is easy to please.\n\nThe relevant aspects of this sentence are represented as follows:\n\n5. John is easy [OP to please x].\n\nHere, \"Op\" is the empty operator and \"x\" is the variable bound by that operator, functioning as the object of the verb \"please\". Part of the reason to assume the empty operator—variable dependency in such sentences is that they exhibit sensitivity to extraction islands. For example, the following attempt to create a similar example results in an ungrammatical sentence. The theoretical representation of the sentence is given right below, omitting, again, irrelevant details.\n\n6. Bad: John is easy to decide whether to please.\n\n7. John is easy [Op to decide whether to please x]\n\nHere, \"whether\" creates an island for a-bar movement. This means that the operator Op is unable to bind its variable \"x\", and this is thought to be the reason why the sentence is ungrammatical. One popular theoretical implementation of this is called \"relativized minimality\". Roughly, it states that a variable of a given kind must be bound by the closest available operator of the same kind. In (6,7), \"x\" can't be bound by \"Op\", because there is a closer operator of the same kind as \"Op\": \"whether\". The sentence (4) with its representation (5) is grammatically acceptable because there's no intervening operator between \"Op\" and \"x\" which blocks the dependency in that sentence.\n\n"}
{"id": "51665606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51665606", "title": "Penal treadmill", "text": "Penal treadmill\n\nA Penal treadmill was a treadmill with exterior steps set into two cast gold wheels. These drove a shaft that could be used to mill corn, pump water or connect to a large fan for resistance.\nThey were used in prisons in the early Victorian period in Britain as a method of exerting hard labour, a form of punishment prescribed in the prisoner's sentence.\n\nThe prison treadwheel was introduced in 1818 by the British engineer Sir William Cubitt (1785–1861) as a means of usefully occupying convicts in the prisons at Bury St Edmunds and Brixton. There had been simple two-man treadmills in prisons before which were used for raising water and grain preparation: these were on a large scale and for a different purpose. Cubitt observed prisoners lying around in idleness, and opined that it was better “reforming offenders by teaching them habits of industry.” It was intended to be pointless and punish; resistance to the motion was provided by straps and weights. Later when prison philosophy had changed it became acceptable to use the energy to power pumps and corn mills. Forty-four prisons in England adopted this form of hard labour to grind grain. Others remained “grinding the wind\".\n\nBy the Prison Act (1865), every male prisoner over 16 sentenced to hard labour had to spend at least three months of his sentence in labour of the first class. This consisted primarily of the tread-mill, or, as an alternative, the crank machine. This consisted of a small wheel, like the wheel of a paddle steamer, and a handle turned by the prisoner made it revolve in a box partially filled with gravel.\n\nIn 1895 there were 39 tread-mills and 29 cranks in use in English prisons, and these had diminished to 13 and 5 respectively in 1901. The use of treadwheels was abolished in Britain in 1902 by the Prisons Act (1898).\n\nAmerica adopted the treadwheel in 1822, installing one in Bellevue County penitentiary in New York City. A second was erected in 1823, for the cost of $3000 at the Old Newgate Prison in East Granby, CT. But only four were built, three of which were quickly abandoned.\n\nThe prison treadwheel was a long wooden cylinder with metal framing. It was originally about in diameter. On the exterior of the cylinder were wooden steps about apart. As the prisoner put his weight on the step it depressed the wheel, and he was forced to step onto the step above, it was an \"everlasting staircase\". There would be 18 to 25 positions on the wheel, each separated by a wooden partition so each prisoner had no contact with the adjacent prisoner and saw only the wall in front. They walked in silence for six hours a day, taking 15 minutes on the wheel followed by a 5-minute break.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45465190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45465190", "title": "Plausible reasoning", "text": "Plausible reasoning\n\nPlausible reasoning is a method of deriving new conclusions from given known premises, a method different from the classical syllogistic argumentation methods of Aristotelian two-valued logic. The syllogistic style of argumentation is illustrated by the oft-quoted argument \"All men are mortal, Socrates is a man, and therefore, Socrates is mortal.\" In contrast, consider the statement \"if it is raining then it is cloudy.\" The only logical inference that one can draw from this is that \"if it is not cloudy then it is not raining.\" But ordinary people in their everyday lives would conclude that \"if it is not raining then being cloudy is less plausible,\" or \"if it is cloudy then rain is more plausible.\" The unstated and unconsciously applied reasoning, arguably incorrect, that made people come to their conclusions is typical of plausible reasoning.\n\nAs another example, look at this scenario: \"Suppose some dark night a policeman walks down a street, apparently deserted; but suddenly he hears a burglar alarm, looks across the street, and sees a jewellery store with a broken window. Then a person wearing a mask comes crawling out through the broken window, carrying a bag which turns out to be full of expensive jewellery. The policeman immediately concludes that this person is stealing the jewellery.\" By what reasoning process does the policeman arrive at this conclusion?\n\nClearly the policeman's conclusion was not a logical deduction from the evidence. There may be a perfectly valid explanation for everything. For example, it might be that this person was the owner of the jewellery store and he was coming home from a fancy dress competition, and he didn't have the key with him. But just as he walked by his store a passing truck threw a stone through the window; and he was only protecting his own property and not stealing the jewellery. Now whatever be the policeman's reasoning process, it has a certain degree of validity. The evidence did not prove that the person was stealing jewellery, but it did make it extremely plausible. This is an example of a kind of reasoning, often referred to as plausible reasoning, in which most people are generally very proficient.\n\nDuring the fifth century B.C.E., judicial orators in Greek Sicily developed a method for successfully pleading their cases in such instances in which no eyewitnesses or written documents or other such direct evidence could be produced. They began to base their arguments on the internal or external probability or plausibility of their statements. This new way of arguing was commonly labeled with the Greek term eikós, a term that has been variously rendered as similarity, likelihood, probability or plausibility. The success of the argument depends on the oratorical skills of the speaker, arguments by eikós have often been accused of lack of truthfulness. Here is a classical example of argument by plausible reasoning presented by Aristotle in his Rhetoric:\n\n\"If the accused is not open to the charge – for instance if a weakling be tried for violent assault – the defence is that he was not likely (eikós) to do such a thing. But if he is open to the charge – that is, if he is a strong man – the defence is still that he was not likely (eikós) to do such a thing, since he could be sure that people would think he was likely (eikós) to do it.\"\n\nThe sophists, a sort of mendicant academicians were said to have been experts in this type of argumentation and they are said to have taught wealthy young Greeks these methods for a hefty fee. Plato and Aristotle strongly denounced these methods and the method came to acquire a lot of bad repute. Sophistic argumentation styles were equated with fallacious arguments.\n\nGeorge Polya in his two volume book titled \"Mathematics and Plausible Reasoning\" presents plausible reasoning as a way of generating new mathematical conjectures. To Polya, “a mathematical proof is demonstrative reasoning but the inductive evidence of the physicist, the circumstantial evidence of the lawyer, the documentary evidence of the historian and the statistical evidence of the economist all belong to plausible reasoning”. Polya’s intention is to teach students the art of guessing new results in mathematics for which he marshals such notions as induction and analogy as possible sources for plausible reasoning. The first vole of the book is devoted to an extensive discussion of these ideas with several examples drawn from various field of mathematics.\n\nPolya begins Volume I with a discussion on induction, not the mathematical induction, as a way of guessing new results. He shows how the chance observations of a few results of the form 4 = 2 + 2, 6 = 3 + 3, 8 = 3 + 5, 10 = 3 + 7, etc., may prompt a sharp mind to formulate the conjecture that every even number greater than 4 can be represented as the sum of two odd prime numbers. This is the well known Goldbach's conjecture. The first problem in the first chapter is to guess the rule according to which the successive terms of the following sequence are chosen: 11, 31, 41, 61, 71, 101, 131, . . . In the next chapter the techniques of generalization, specialization and analogy are presented as possible strategies for plausible reasoning. In the remaining chapters, these ideas are illustrated by discussing the discovery of several results in various fields of mathematics like number theory, geometry, etc. and also in physical sciences.\n\nThis volume attempts to formulate certain patterns of plausible reasoning. The relations of these patterns with the calculus of probability are also investigated. Their relation to mathematical invention and instruction are also discussed. The following are some of the patterns of plausible inference discussed by Polya.\n\nAfter a detailed analysis of several paradigmatic examples drawn from ancient Greek texts, D Walton and others formulated the following eleven properties as the defining characteristics of plausible reasoning.\n\n\nAllan M. Collins, a recognized authority on intelligent tutoring systems and plausible reasoning, presenting a core theory of the logic of plausible reasoning identified some of the important problems in the formulation of such a theory.\n\n1. \"Representing degree of belief.\"\n\nThis is the problem of representing the differences in the strengths of beliefs indicated by the phrases “entirely certain” and “would guess”.\n\n2. \"Evaluating the strength of arguments.\"\n\nWe need a computational scheme to calculate and compare different levels and strengths of belief.\n\n3. \"Applying rules of general but not universal validity.\"\n\nStandard logic justifies the use of universally quantified rules; rules that are always true without exception. Much commonsense inference relies on applying default rules that hold in general but not always.\n\n4. \"Avoiding the enumeration of all the conditions on a rule. \"\n\nIt often happens that a plausible commonsense rule, when examined closely, has an almost unlimited number of possible types of exceptions. The problem of dealing with all these potential exceptions is known as the qualification problem.\n\n5. \"Inference from the absence of information.\"\n\nIt is often reasonable to infer that a statement \"A\" is false from the fact that one does not know \"A\" to be true, or from the fact that it is not stated to be true in a problem statement.\n\n6. \"Limiting the extent of inference.\"\n\nMany intuitively appealing sets of axioms have the property that the first few inferences all seem to be reasonable and to have reasonable conclusions, but that, as the inferences get further and further from the starting axioms, the conclusions seem less and less sensible, and they eventually end up in pure nonsense.\n\n7. \"Inference using vague concepts. \"\n\nInferences that involve reasoning near the boundaries of a vague concept are often uncertain.\n\n8. \"Finding expected utility. \"\n\nThis is the problem of choosing between actions whose consequences are uncertain. In such a case, a choice may be made based on the likelihoods of the various outcomes with their desirability.\n\n9. \"Inferring an explanation. \"\n\nCommonsense reasoners try to explain the reasons underlying their observations. If I observe that the street is wet, I infer that it rained. If I observe that the sidewalk is not wet, I may decide instead that the street-cleaners have been by.\n\n10. \"Schema-Based Inference.\"\n\nMany useful commonsense concepts correspond to large systems of relations that are instantiated in many separate instances in the world. Such concepts are called schemas or frames.\n\n11. \"Inferring a general rule from examples. \"\n\nPeople are always on the lookout for general rules that encapsulate their observations.\n\n"}
{"id": "301483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301483", "title": "Ramana Maharshi", "text": "Ramana Maharshi\n\nRamana Maharshi (30 December 1879 – 14 April 1950) was a Hindu sage and jivanmukta. He was born as Venkataraman Iyer, but is most commonly known by the name Bhagavan Sri Ramana Maharshi.\n\nHe was born in what is now Tiruchuli, Tamil Nadu, India. In 1895, an attraction to the sacred hill Arunachala and the 63 Nayanars was aroused in him, and in 1896, at the age of 16, he had a \"death-experience\" where he became aware of a \"current\" or \"force\" (\"avesam\") which he recognised as his true \"I\" or \"self\", and which he later identified with \"the personal God, or Iswara,\" that is, Shiva. This resulted in a state that he later described as \"the state of mind of Iswara or the jnani\". Six weeks later he left his uncle's home in Madurai, and journeyed to the holy mountain Arunachala, in Tiruvannamalai, where he took on the role of a sannyasin (though not formally initiated), and remained for the rest of his life.\n\nHe soon attracted devotees who regarded him as an avatar and came to him for darshan (\"the sight of God\"), and in later years an ashram grew up around him, where visitors received upadesa (\"spiritual instruction\") by sitting silently in his company asking questions. Since the 1930s his teachings have been popularized in the West, resulting in his worldwide recognition as an enlightened being.\n\nRamana Maharshi approved a number of paths and practices, but recommended self-enquiry as the principal means to remove ignorance and abide in Self-awareness, together with bhakti (devotion) or surrender to the Self.\n\nRamana Maharshi was born Venkataraman Iyer on 30 December 1879 in the village Tiruchuzhi near Aruppukkottai, Madurai in Tamil Nadu, South India. He was the second of four children in an orthodox Hindu Brahmin family. His father was Sundaram Iyer (1848–1890), from the lineage of Parashara, and his mother was Azhagammal (1864-1922). He had two brothers Nagaswami (1877–1900) and Nagasundaram (1886–1953), along with a younger sister Alamelu (1887-1953). Venkataraman's father was a court pleader.\n\nBoth a paternal uncle of his father and his father's brother had become sannyasins. Venkataraman's family belonged to the Smarta denomination, and regular worship of Lord Siva, Lord Vishnu, Lord Ganesa, Lord Surya and Goddess Shakti took place in their home.\n\nWhen Venkataraman was seven he had his upanayana, the traditional initiation of the three upper varnas into Brahmanical learning and the knowledge of Self. He had a very good memory, and was able to recall information after hearing it once, an ability he used to memorise Tamil poems.\n\nNarasimha notes that Venkataraman used to sleep very deeply, not waking up from loud sounds, nor even when his body was beaten by others. When he was about twelve years old, he may have experienced spontaneous deep meditative states. \"Sri Ramana Vijayam\", the Tamil biography that first appeared in the 1920s, describes a period a few years before the death-experience in Madurai:\nWhen he was about eleven his father sent him to live with his paternal uncle Subbaiyar in Dindigul as he wanted his sons to be educated in the English language so that they would be eligible to enter government service. Only Tamil was taught at the village school in Tiruchuzhi, which he attended for three years. In 1891, when his uncle was transferred to Madurai, Venkataraman and his elder brother Nagaswami moved with him. In Dindigul, Venkataraman attended a Hindu School where English was taught, and stayed there for a year.\n\nHis father, Sundaram Iyer, died suddenly on 18 February 1892. After his father's death, the family split up; Venkataraman and Nagaswami stayed with Subbaiyar in Madurai.\n\nVenkataraman first attended Scott's Middle School and then the American Mission High School where he became acquainted with Christianity.\n\nIn November 1895 Venkataraman realized that Arunachala, the sacred mountain, was a real place. He had known of its existence from an early age, and was overwhelmed by the realisation that it really existed. During this time he also read Sekkizhar's \"Periyapuranam\", a book that describes the lives of the 63 Nayanars, which \"made a great impression\" on him, and revealed to him that \"Divine Union\" is possible. According to Osborne, a new current of awareness started to awaken during his visits to the Meenakshi Temple at Madurai, \"a state of blissful consciousness transcending both the physical and mental plane and yet compatible with full use of the physical and mental faculties\".\n\nAccording to Narasimha, in July 1896, at age 16, a sudden fear of death befell him. He was struck by \"a flash of excitement\" or \"heat,\" like some \"avesam\", a \"current\" or \"force\" that seemed to possess him, while his body became rigid. He initiated a process of self-enquiry asking himself what it is that dies. He concluded that the body dies, but that this \"current\" or \"force\" remains alive, and recognised this \"current\" or \"force\" as his \"Self\", which he later identified with \"the personal God, or Iswara\".\n\nIn one of his rare written comments on this process Ramana Maharshi wrote, \"Enquiring within \"Who is the seer?\" I saw the seer disappear leaving That alone which stands forever. No thought arose to say \"I saw\". How then could the thought arise to say \"I did not see\".\"\n\nLater in life, he called his death experience \"akrama mukti\", \"sudden liberation,\" as opposed to the \"krama mukti\", \"gradual liberation\" as in the Vedanta path of jnana yoga. It resulted in a state of mind which he later described as \"the state of mind of Iswara or the jnani:\"\nAfter this event, he lost interest in school studies, friends, and relations. He was absent-minded at school, \"imagining and expecting God would suddenly drop down from Heaven before me\". Avoiding company, he preferred to sit alone, absorbed in concentration on this current or force, and went daily to the Meenakshi Temple, ecstatically devoted to the images of the 63 Nayanars and of Nataraja, wanting \"the same grace as was shown to those saints,\" praying that he \"should have the same bhakti that they had\" and \"[weeping] that God should give me the same grace He gave to those saints\".\n\nKnowing his family would not permit him to become a sanyassin and leave home, Venkataraman slipped away, telling his brother he needed to attend a special class at school. Venkataraman boarded a train on 1 September 1896 and traveled to Tiruvannamalai where he remained for the rest of his life.\n\nOn arriving in Tiruvannamalai, Maharshi went to the temple of Arunachaleswara. The first few weeks he spent in the thousand-pillared hall, then shifted to other spots in the temple, and eventually to the Patala-lingam vault so that he might remain undisturbed. There, he spent days absorbed in such deep samādhi that he was unaware of the bites of vermin and pests. Seshadri Swamigal, a local saint, discovered him in the underground vault and tried to protect him. After about six weeks in the Patala-lingam, he was carried out and cleaned up. For the next two months he stayed in the Subramanya Shrine, so unaware of his body and surroundings that food had to be placed in his mouth or he would have starved.\n\nIn February 1897, six months after his arrival at Tiruvannamalai, Ramana moved to Gurumurtam, a temple about a mile away. Shortly after his arrival a sadhu named Palaniswami went to see him. Palaniswami's first darshan left him filled with peace and bliss, and from that time on he served Ramana as his permanent attendant. Besides physical protection, Palaniswami would also beg for alms, cook and prepare meals for himself and Ramana, and care for him as needed. In May 1898 Ramana moved to a mango orchard next to Gurumurtam.\n\nOsborne wrote that during this time Ramana completely neglected his body. He also ignored the ants which bit him incessantly. Gradually, despite Ramana's desire for privacy, he attracted attention from visitors who admired his silence and austerities, bringing offerings and singing praises. Eventually a bamboo fence was built to protect him.\n\nWhile living at the Gurumurtam temple his family discovered his whereabouts. First, his uncle Nelliappa Iyer came and pleaded with him to return home, promising that the family would not disturb his ascetic life. Ramana sat motionless and eventually his uncle gave up.\n\nIn September, 1898 Ramana moved to the Shiva-temple at Pavalakkunru, one of the eastern spurs of Arunachala. He refused to return even though his mother begged him to.\n\nSoon after this, in February 1899, Ramana left the foothills to live on Arunachala itself. He stayed briefly in Satguru Cave and Guhu Namasivaya Cave before taking up residence at Virupaksha Cave for the next 17 years, using Mango Tree cave during the summers, except for a six-month period at Pachaiamman Koil during the plague epidemic.\n\nIn 1902, a government official named Sivaprakasam Pillai, with writing slate in hand, visited the young Swami in the hope of obtaining answers to questions about \"How to know one's true identity\". The fourteen questions put to the young Swami and his answers were Ramana's first teachings on Self-enquiry, the method for which he became widely known, and were eventually published as \"Nan Yar?\", or in English, \"Who am I?\".\n\nMany visitors came to him and some became his devotees. Kavyakantha Sri Ganapati Sastri, a Vedic scholar of repute in his age, with a deep knowledge of the Srutis, Sastras, Tantras, Yoga, and Agama systems, but lacking the personal \"darshan\" of Shiva, came to visit Ramana in 1907. After receiving \"upadesa\" from him on self-enquiry, he proclaimed him as Bhagavan Sri Ramana Maharshi. Ramana was known by this name from then on. Ganapati Sastri passed on these instructions to his own students, but later in life confessed that he had never been able to achieve permanent Self-abidance. Nevertheless, he was highly valued by Ramana Maharshi and played an important role in his life.\n\nIn 1911 the first westerner, Frank Humphreys, then a police officer stationed in India, discovered Ramana and wrote articles about him which were first published in \"The International Psychic Gazette\" in 1913.\n\nIn an appendix to \"Self realisation\" Narasimha wrote that in 1912, while in the company of disciples, Ramana had an epileptic fit, in which his vision was suddenly impaired three times by a \"white bright curtain\" which covered a part of his vision. At the third instance his vision was shut out completely, while his \"head was swimming,\" and he felt his heart stop beating and his breathing seizing, while his skin turned blue, as if he was dead. This lasted for about ten or fifteen minutes, whereafter \"a shock passed suddenly through the body,\" and his blood circulation and his respiration returned. In response to \"strange accounts\" about this event, he later said that it was a fit, which he used to have occasionally, and did not bring on himself. According to Osborne, it \"marked the final completion of Sri Bhagavan’s return to full outer normality\".\n\nIn 1916 his mother Alagammal and younger brother Nagasundaram joined Ramana at Tiruvannamalai and followed him when he moved to the larger Skandashram Cave, where Bhagavan lived until the end of 1922. His mother took up the life of a \"sannyasin\" and Ramana began to give her intense, personal instruction, while she took charge of the Ashram kitchen. Ramana's younger brother, Nagasundaram, then became a \"sannyasi\", assuming the name Niranjanananda, becoming known as Chinnaswami (the younger Swami).\n\nDuring this period, Ramana composed \"The Five Hymns to Arunachala\", his magnum opus in devotional lyric poetry. The first hymn is \"Akshara Mana Malai\". It was composed in Tamil in response to the request of a devotee for a song to be sung while wandering in the town for alms. The Marital Garland tells in glowing symbolism of the love and union between the human soul and God, expressing the attitude of the soul that still aspires.\n\nStarting in 1920, his mother's health deteriorated. She died on 19 May 1922 while Ramana sat beside her.\nFrom 1922 until his death in 1950 Ramana lived in Sri Ramanasramam, the ashram that developed around his mother's tomb. Ramana often walked from Skandashram to his mother's tomb. In December 1922 he did not return to Skandashram, and settled at the base of the Hill, and Sri Ramanasramam started to develop. At first, there was only one hut at the \"samadhi\", but in 1924 two huts, one opposite the \"samadhi\" and the other to the north, were erected. The so-called Old Hall was built in 1928. Ramana lived there until 1949.\n\nSri Ramanasramam grew to include a library, hospital, post-office and many other facilities. Ramana displayed a natural talent for planning building projects. Annamalai Swami gave detailed accounts of this in his reminiscences. Until 1938, Annamalai Swami was entrusted with the task of supervising the projects, and received his instructions from Ramana directly.\n\nSri Ramana led a modest and renunciate life. However, according to David Godman, who has written extensively about Ramana, a popular image of him as a person who spent most of his time doing nothing except sitting silently in samadhi is highly inaccurate. From the period when an Ashram began to rise around him after his mother arrived, until his later years when his health failed, Ramana was actually quite active in Ashram activities such as cooking and stitching leaf plates.\n\nIn 1931 a biography of Ramana Maharshi, \"Self Realisation: The Life and Teachings of Ramana Maharshi\", written by B. V. Narasimha, was published. Ramana then became relatively well known in and out of India after 1934 when Paul Brunton, having first visited Ramana in January 1931, published the book \"A Search in Secret India\". In this book he describes how he was compelled by the Paramacharya of Kanchi to meet Ramana Maharshi, his meeting with Ramana Maharshi, and the effect this meeting had on him. Brunton also describes how Ramana's fame had spread, \"so that pilgrims to the temple were often induced to go up the hill and see him before they returned home.\" Brunton calls Ramana \"one of the last of India's spiritual supermen,\" and describes his affection toward Ramana:\nWhile staying at Sri Ramanasramam, Brunton had an experience of a \"sublimely all-embracing\" awareness, a \"Moment of Illumination\". The book was a best-seller, and introduced Ramana Maharshi to a wider audience in the west. Resulting visitors included Paramahansa Yogananda, Somerset Maugham (whose 1944 novel \"The Razor's Edge\" models its spiritual guru after Ramana), Mercedes de Acosta and Arthur Osborne, the last of whom was the first editor of \"Mountain Path\" in 1964, the magazine published by Ramanasramam.\n\nIn November 1948, a tiny cancerous lump was found on Ramana's arm and was removed in February 1949 by the ashram's doctor. Soon, another growth appeared, and another operation was performed by an eminent surgeon in March 1949 with radium applied. The doctor told Ramana that a complete amputation of the arm to the shoulder was required to save his life, but he refused. A third and fourth operation were performed in August and December 1949, but only weakened him. Other systems of medicine were then tried; all proved fruitless and were stopped by the end of March when devotees gave up all hope. To devotees who begged him to cure himself for the sake of his followers, Ramana is said to have replied, \"Why are you so attached to this body? Let it go,\" and \"Where can I go? I am here.\" By April 1950, Ramana was too weak to go to the hall and visiting hours were limited. Visitors would file past the small room where he spent his last days to get one final glimpse. He died on 14 April 1950 at 8:47 p.m. At the same time a shooting star was seen, which impressed some of his devotees as a synchronicity.\n\nRamana Maharshi was, and is, regarded by many as an outstanding enlightened being. He was a charismatic person, and attracted many devotees, some of whom saw him as an avatar and the embodiment of Shiva.\n\nMany devotees visited Ramana Maharshi for \"darshan\", the sight of a holy person or God incarnate, which is advantageous and transmits merit. According to Flood, in Indian religions the guru is akin to the image or statue of a deity in the temple, and both possess power and a sacred energy. According to Osborne, Ramana Maharsi regarded giving darshan as \"his task in life,\" and said that he had to be accessible to all who came. Even during his terminal illness at the end of his life, he demanded to be approachable for all who came for his \"darshan\".\n\nObjects being touched or used by him were highly valued by his devotees, \"as they considered it to be \"prasad\" and that it passed on some of the power and blessing of the Guru to them\". People also tried to touch his feet, which is also considered \"darshana\". When one devotee asked if it would be possible to prostrate before Sri Ramana and touch his feet, he replied:\nIn later life, the number of devotees and their devotion grew so large that Ramana became restricted in his daily routine. Measures had to be taken to prevent people touching him. Several times Ramana tried to escape from the ashram, to return to a life of solitude. Vasudeva reports: \"Bhagavan sat on a rock and said with tears in his eyes that he would never again come to the Ashram and would go where he pleased and live in the forests or caves away from all men.\"\n\nRamana did return to the ashram, but has also reported himself on attempts to leave the ashram:\nSome of Ramana Maharshi's devotees regarded him to be as Dakshinamurthy; as an avatar of Skanda, a divine form of Shiva popular in Tamil Nadu; as an incarnation of Jnana Sambandar, one of the sixty-three Nayanars; and as an incarnation of Kumārila Bhaṭṭa, the 8th century Mimamsa-philosopher. According to Krishna Bhikshu, one of his early biographers:\n\nA number of Ramana's Maharshi's Indian devotees (not comprehensive):\n\nA list of Western devotees of Ramana Maharshi (not comprehensive):\n\nRamana Maharshi provided \"upadeśa\" (\"spiritual instruction\") by providing darshan and sitting silently together with devotees and visitors, but also by answering the questions and concerns raised by those who sought him out. Many of these question-and-answer sessions have been transcribed and published by devotees, some of which have been edited by Ramana Maharshi himself. A few texts have been published which were written by Ramana Maharshi himself, or written down on his behalf and edited by him.\n\nRamana Maharshi also provided an example by his own devotion to Shiva, which has been extensively described by his devotees, such as walks around the holy hill Arunachala, in which devotees participated, and his hymns to Arunachala.\n\nRamana Maharshi described his Self as a \"force\" or \"current,\" which descended on him in his death-experience, and continued throughout his life:\nRamana used various terms to denote this Self. The most frequently used terms were \"sat-chit-ananda\", which translates into English as \"being-consciousness-bliss\"; God, Brahman and Siva, and the Heart, which is not to be confused with the physical heart, or a particular point in space, but was rather to indicate that \"the Self was the source from which all appearances manifested\".\n\nAccording to David Godman, the essence of Ramana Maharshi's teachings is that the \"Self\" or real \"I\" is a \"non-personal, all-inclusive awareness\": \nRamana considered the Self to be permanent and enduring, surviving physical death. \"The sleep, dream and waking states are mere phenomena appearing on the Self,\" as is the \"I\"-thought. Our \"true nature\" is \"simple Being, free from thoughts\".\n\nRamana would field many questions about \"jnanis\" (\"liberated beings\") from devotees, but even the terms \"jnani\" and \"ajnani\" (non-liberated being) are incorrect, since it leads one to the idea of there being a knower and a known, a subject and an object. The truth of it according to Ramana Maharshi is that there are neither \"jnanis\" nor \"ajnanis\", there is simply \"jnana\", which is Self:\n\nRamana's main means of instruction to his devotees in order to remove ignorance and abide in Self-awareness was through silently sitting together with his visitors, using words only sparingly. His method of instruction has been compared to Dakshinamurti - Shiva in the ascetic appearance of the Guru, who teaches through silence:\n\nCommenting upon this silence Ramana said:\n\"Vichara\", \"Self-enquiry\", also called \"ātma-vichār\" or \"jnana-vichara\" is the constant attention to the inner awareness of \"I\" or \"I am\". Ramana Maharshi frequently recommended it as the most efficient and direct way of realizing Self-awareness, in response to questions on self-liberation and the classic texts on Yoga and Vedanta.\n\nAccording to Ramana Maharshi, the I-thought is the sense of individuality: \"(\"Aham, aham\") ‘I-I’ is the Self; (\"Aham idam\") “I am this” or “I am that” is the ego.\" By paying attention to the 'I'-thought, inquiring where it comes from, the 'I'-thought will disappear and the \"shining forth\" (\"sphurana\") of \"I-I\" or Self-awareness will appear. This results in an \"effortless awareness of being,\" and by staying with it this \"I-I\" gradually destroys the \"vasanas\" \"which cause the 'I'-thought to rise\". When the \"vasanas\" disappear, the mind, \"vritti\" also comes to rest, since it centers around the 'I'-thought, and finally the 'I'-thought never rises again, which is Self-realization or liberation:\nRobert Forman notes that Ramana Maharshi made a distinction between \"samadhi\" and \"sahaja samadhi\". \"Samadhi\" is a contemplative state, which is temporary, while in \"sahaja samadhi\" a \"silent state\" is maintained while engaged in daily activities. Ramana Maharshi himself stated repeatedly that \"samadhi\" only suppresses the \"vāsanās\", the karmic impressions, but does not destroy them. Only by abiding in Self-awareness will the \"vāsanās\", which create the sense of a separate self, be destroyed, and \"sahaja samadhi\" be attained.\n\nAlthough he advocated self-enquiry as the fastest means to realisation, he also recommended the path of \"bhakti\" and self-surrender (to one's deity or guru) either concurrently or as an adequate alternative, which would ultimately converge with the path of self-enquiry.\n\nSurrender has to be complete and desireless, without any expectations of solutions or rewards, or even liberation. It is a willingness to accept whatever happens. Surrender is not the willful act of an individual self, but the growing awareness that there is no individual self to surrender. Practice is aimed at the removal of ignorance, not at the attainment of realisation.\n\nAccording to David Godman, Ramana Maharshi taught that the idea of reincarnation is based on wrong ideas about the individual self as being real. Ramana Maharshi would sometimes say that rebirth does exist, to step forward to those who were not able to fully grasp the non-reality of the individual self. But when this illusoriness is realised, there is no room any more for ideas about reincarnation. When the identification with the body stops, any notions about death and rebirth become inapplicable, since there is no birth or death within Self. Ramana Maharshi:\n\nAccording to Wehr, C. G. Jung noted that Ramana Maharshi is not to be regarded as an \"isolated phenomenon,\" but as a token of Indian spirituality, \"manifest in many forms in everyday Indian life\". According to Zimmer and Jung, Ramana's appearance as a \"mauni\", a silent saint absorbed in \"samadhi\", fitted into pre-existing Indian notions of holiness. They placed the Indian devotion toward Ramana Maharshi in this Indian context. \n\nAccording to Alan Edwards, the popular image of Ramana Maharshi as a timeless saint also served the construction of an Indian identity as inner-oriented and spiritual, in opposition to the oppressive, outer-oriented, materialistic culture of the British colonial rulers:\n\nThough Ramana's answers explain and incorporate elements from Advaita Vedanta, his spiritual life is strongly associated with Shaivism. The Tamil compendium of devotional songs known as \"Tirumurai\", along with the Vedas, the Shaiva Agamas and \"Meykanda\" or \"Siddhanta\" Shastras, form the scriptural canon of Tamil Shaiva Siddhanta. As a youth, prior to his awakening, Ramana read the Periya Puranam, the stories of the 63 Tamil saints. In later life, he told those stories to his devotees:\nRamana himself considered God, Guru and Self to be the manifestations of the same reality. Ramana considered the Self to be his guru, in the form of the sacred mountain Arunachala, which is considered to be the manifestation of Shiva. Arunachala is one of the five main shaivite holy places in South India, which can be worshipped through the mantra \"Om arunachala shivaya namah!\" and by Pradakshina, walking around the mountain, a practice which was often performed by Ramana. Asked about the special sanctity of Arunachala, Ramana said that Arunachala is Shiva himself. In his later years, Ramana said it was the spiritual power of Arunachala which had brought about his Self-realisation. He composed the \"Five Hymns to Arunachala\" as devotional song. On the three occasions Venkataraman (Ramana) referred to himself he used the name \"Arunachala Ramana\". Ramana Maharshi also used to smear his forehead with holy ash, as a token of veneration.\n\nIn later life, Ramana himself came to be regarded as Dakshinamurthy, an aspect of Shiva as a guru of all types of knowledge, and bestower of jnana. This aspect of Shiva is his personification as the supreme or the ultimate awareness, understanding and knowledge. This form represents Shiva in his aspect as a teacher of yoga, music, and wisdom, and giving exposition on the shastras.\n\nDuring his lifetime, through contact with educated devotees like Ganapata Muni, Ramana Maharshi became acquainted with works on Shaivism and Advaita Vedanta, and used them to explain his insights:\nAlready in 1896, a few months after his arrival at Arunachala, Ramana attracted his first disciple, Uddandi Nayinar, who recognised in him \"the living embodiment of the Holy Scriptures\". Uddandi was well-versed in classic texts on Yoga and Vedanta, and recited texts as the \"Yoga Vasistha\" and \"Kaivalya Navaneeta\" in Ramana's presence.\n\nIn 1897 Ramana was joined by Palaniswami, who became his attendant. Palaniswami studied books in Tamil on Vedanta, such as \"Kaivalya Navaneeta\", Shankara's \"Vivekachudamani\", and \"Yoga Vasistha\". He had difficulties understanding Tamil. Ramana read the books too, and explained them to Palaniswami.\n\nAs early as 1900, when Ramana was 20 years old, he became acquainted with the teachings of the Hindu monk and Neo-Vedanta teacher Swami Vivekananda through Gambhiram Seshayya. Seshayya was interested in yoga techniques, and \"used to bring his books and explain his difficulties\". Ramana answered on small scraps of paper, which were collected after his death in the late 1920s in a booklet called \"Vichara Sangraham\", \"Self-enquiry\".\n\nOne of the works that Ramana used to explain his insights was the Ribhu Gita, a song at the heart of the Shivarahasya Purana, one of the 'Shaiva Upapuranas' or ancillary Purana regarding Shiva and Shaivite worship. Another work used by him was the Dakshinamurthy Stotram, a text by Shankara. It is a hymn to Shiva, explaining Advaita Vedanta.\n\nRamana gave his approval to a variety of paths and practices from various religions, with his own upadesa (instruction or guidance given to a disciple by his Guru) always pointing to the true \"Self\" of the devotees.\n\nIn contrast to classical Advaita Vedanta, Ramana emphasized the personal experience of self-realization, instead of philosophical argumentation and the study of scripture. Ramana's authority was based on his personal experience, from which he explained classic texts on Yoga and Vedanta, which he came acquainted with via his devotees. Arvind Sharma qualifies Ramana Maharshi as the chief exponent of \"experiential Advaita\", to distinguish his approach from Shankara's classical \"doctrinal Advaita\". Fort classifies him as a neo-Vedantin, because of the focus on self-inquiry instead of philosophical speculation. Ramana himself did not call his insights advaita, but said that \"dvaita\" and \"advaita\" are relative terms, based on a sense of duality, while the Self or Being is all there is.\n\nAlthough Ramana's teaching is consistent with and generally associated with Hinduism, the Upanishads and Advaita Vedanta, there are differences with the traditional Advaitic school. Advaita recommends a negationist \"neti, neti\" (Sanskrit, \"not this\", \"not this\") path, or mental affirmations that the Self is the only reality, such as \"I am Brahman\" or \"I am He\", while Ramana advocated Self-enquiry \"Nan Yar\". In contrast with traditional Advaita Vedanta, Ramana Maharshi strongly discouraged devotees from adopting a renunciate lifestyle and renouncing their responsibilities. To one devotee who felt he should abandon his family, whom he described as \"samsara\" (\"illusion\"), to intensify his spiritual practice, Sri Ramana replied:\nAlthough many claim to be influenced by him, Ramana Maharshi did not publicise himself as a guru, never claimed to have disciples, and never appointed any successors. While a few who came to see him are said to have become enlightened through association, he did not publicly acknowledge any living person as liberated other than his mother at death. Ramana never promoted any lineage.\n\nWith regard to the Sri Ramana Ashram, in 1938 Maharshi made a legal will bequeathing all the Ramanashram properties to his younger brother Niranjanananda and his descendants. In 2013, Ramanashram is run by Sri Niranjananda's grandson Sri V.S. Raman. Ramanashram is legally recognised as a public religious trust whose aim is to maintain it in a way that is consistent with Sri Ramana's declared wishes. The ashram should remain open as a spiritual institution so that anyone who wishes to can avail themselves of its facilities.\n\nIn the 1930s, Maharshi's teachings were brought to the west by Paul Brunton in his \"A Search in Secret India\". Stimulated by Arthur Osborne, in the 1960s Bhagawat Singh actively started to spread Ramana Maharshi's teachings in the US. Ramana Maharshi has been further popularised in the west by the neo-Advaita movement, which the students of H. W. L. Poonja have been instrumental in, and which gives a western re-interpretation of his teachings placing sole emphasis on insight alone. It has been criticised for this emphasis, omitting the preparatory practices. Nevertheless, Neo-Advaita has become an important constituent of popular western spirituality.\n\nAccording to Ebert, Ramana \"never felt moved to formulate his teaching of his own accord, either verbally or in writing\". The few writings he is credited with \"came into being as answers to questions asked by his disciples or through their urging\". Only a few hymns were written on his own initiative. Writings by Ramana are:\n\nAll these texts are collected in the \"Collected Works\".\n\nSeveral collections of recorded talks, in which Sri Ramana used Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam, have been published. Those are based on written transcripts, which were \"hurriedly written down in English by his official interpreters\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27598504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27598504", "title": "Reconciliatio et paenitentia", "text": "Reconciliatio et paenitentia\n\nReconciliatio et paenitentia (Latin for Reconciliation and Penance) is an apostolic exhortation by Pope John Paul II, delivered on 2 December 1984 in Saint Peter's Basilica in Rome, which grew out of the Sixth General Assembly of the Synod of Bishops held in 1983. The third of John Paul II's apostolic exhortations, it presents Jesus as the Reconciler of a shattered world.\n\nJohn Paul II began the exhortation by recalling from the Gospel of Mark , the very words with which Jesus began his preaching: \"Repent, and believe in the Gospel\". Building on that theme, the pope addressed \"reconciliation and penance in the mission of the Church today\". Continuing his teaching on the mystery of Redemption, the pope presented Jesus as the Reconciler of a shattered world and urged the Church and the world to rediscover the path of penance, the only path that can lead to full reconciliation.\n\nThe exhortation has three parts, as well as an introduction and conclusions. The introduction discusses the modern world's divisions and difficulties. It stresses the inherent desire of humanity for reconciliation. The first chapter discusses the fact that the mission of the Church remains the conversion of hearts.\n\nThe second part is titled: \"The Love That is Greater than Sin\" and singles out sin as the cause of the wounds that individuals inflict on themselves, on God and their neighbors. It discusses the personal and social dimensions of sin. The third chapter discusses the means by which the Church fosters penance, reconciliation and healing, returning to the theme of Mark 1:15: \"Repent, and believe in the Gospel\".\n\nThe final part includes a call for unity and conversion of hearts. The teachings on structural sin in this exhortation were also later discussed in the pope's 1987 encyclical Sollicitudo rei socialis.\n\nThe pope used the parable of the prodigal son to explain the process of conversion and reconciliation, and that God the Father is \"rich in mercy\" and always ready to forgive. \"Reconciliation is principally a gift of the heavenly Father,\" and an initiative on his part. He observes that the older brother also needs to be converted from his selfishness and jealousy. Each person is both the prodigal son and the older brother, both in need of reconciliation.\n\nJohn Paul describes sin as \"...the disobedience of a person who, by a free act, does not acknowledge God's sovereignty over his or her life, at least at that particular moment in which he or she transgresses God's law,\" and it is sin which is ultimately the cause of all divisions and conflicts within human society. The exhortation also discussed John Paul II's view of \"structural sin\". The pope insists on sin as a free personal act. He views \"social sin\" in three ways: first that personal sin has social effects, second, that some sins directly affect the neighbor, and third that social sin refers to relationships between human communities. The pope rejected the separation and contrasting of personal and social sin in a way that leads to the dilution and eventual abolition of personal sin, and the substitution of social guilt and responsibility in its place.\n\nHe concurs with Pope Pius XII's statement that \"the sin of the century is the loss of the sense of sin,\" and reaffirms the Church's teaching on the distinction between mortal and venial sins. He deplores a view that all failings are blamed upon society, and the individual is declared innocent of them, or which so emphasizes environmental and historical conditioning and their influences that it reduces man's responsibility to the point of not acknowledging his ability to perform truly human acts and therefore his ability to sin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44960334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44960334", "title": "Riccardo Pozzo", "text": "Riccardo Pozzo\n\nRiccardo Pozzo (born June 7, 1959 in Milan) is an Italian philosopher and historian of philosophy.\n\nGraduated in philosophy at the University of Milan in 1983, Riccardo Pozzo was a disciple of Mario Dal Pra, Wilhelm Risse, and Norbert Hinske. He received his Ph.D. in 1988 at Saarland University and Habilitation in 1995 at University of Trier. In 1996 he went to the U.S. to teach Kant and Hegel at the School of Philosophy of CUA in Washington, D.C. In 2003 he came back to Italy to take up the chair of the History of Philosophy at Università di Verona.\nFrom 2009 to 2012 he succeeded to Tullio Gregory at the direction of the Institute for the European Intellectual Lexicon and History of Ideas at the National Research Council of Italy. Since 2013 he has been directing the Department of Social Sciences and Humanities, Cultural Heritage of the National Research Council of Italy. In 2012 he was elected a member of the Institut International de Philosophie.\n\nOrder of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany on ribbon, he is currently serving as expert of the Horizon 2020 Program Committee Configuration Research Infrastructures, member of the Scientific Review Group for the Humanities of the European Science Foundation, and chairman of the 24th World Congress of Philosophy Program Committee, organized by the Fédération Internationale des Sociétés de Philosophie in Beijing 2018.\n\nHistorian of Philosophy and author of monographs on Aristotelianism, the history of logic (from the Renaissance to Kant and Hegel), the history of ideas and the history of universities, Pozzo has pushed forward the creation of research infrastructures for an enhanced comprehension of philosophical and scientific texts that have shaped the cultural heritage of mankind. Specific characteristic of Pozzo’s approach to lexicography during his tenure at the Institute for the European Intellectual Lexicon and History of Ideas is the use of IT for linguistic and textual data documentation and elaboration in Ancient Greek, English, French, German, Latin, and Italian.\n\nIn recent years Pozzo has been considering possibilities and limits of an intercultural history of philosophy. According to him today, intellectual history and philosophy hardly talk to each other. The subjects are nonetheless the same ones: thought and its history. Therefore he promotes an intercultural model to the history of philosophy, which begins from a critical consideration of this nonspeaking. In his books and articles he puts forward examples of corpora of philosophical texts that talk to each other, which is a new trend made possible by the advances of state-of-the-art lexicography. With migration among the key issues at the top of public and academic agendas worldwide a re-consideration is urgent of the migrant practices of transfer of organizing principles and conditions for developing competences to act in multicultural settings, and ideas, which—as Arthur O. Lovejoy used to say—are the most migratory things in the world.\n\nMonographs\n\nPapers\n\nEdited volumes\n\n"}
{"id": "20784973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20784973", "title": "Schlesinger Institute", "text": "Schlesinger Institute\n\nThe Schlesinger Institute for Medical-Halachic Research was founded in Israel in 1966 under the auspices of Shaare Zedek Medical Center. It is named after the hospital's second director-general. The Institute is dedicated to the halachic (Jewish law) approach to medical ethics, and has the purpose of researching and resolving the halachic issues that emerge as medicine progresses, to consider their medical, halachic, legal and ethical ramifications, and to present practical responses. Leading rabbis, physicians and others, consider and respond to issues, with the intention of following the spirit of Torah.\nThe Schlesinger Institute offers religious and academic programs in Jewish medical ethics involving prominent Jewish medical ethicists to diverse audiences and student groups. Among these programs are a thirty-hour semester course at the Hebrew University-Hadassah Medical School, summer and winter seminars for medical and nursing students from abroad, lectures and tours of Shaare Zedek for yeshiva and seminary students, and one-day seminars on selected topics for Israeli high school pupils.\n\nA number of books and journals on Jewish medical ethics are available through the Schlesinger Institute.\n\nThe Schlesinger Institute publishes two journals, ASSIA in Hebrew and JME in English. Both journals covermedical and ethical problems, solutions and ethical thought processes of rabbis and doctors who have dealt with these problems.\n\nArticles published in the journals deal with a variety of topics, including: scientific, legal, ethical and halachic aspects of cloning, determining time of death, heart transplantation, truth-telling to the dangerously ill patient, halachic and medical aspects of the AIDS virus, psychiatry and halacha, the selling of organs, the cessation of medical treatment and euthanasia, initial counseling for a juvenile with homosexual urges, smoking and life expectancy, coercive medical treatment, the surrogate mother, medical dilemmas of hospital nurses and halachic principles connected to the obligation to save human life.\n\nBy Avraham Steinberg, M.D.\n\nMedical practice from the point of view of halacha and Jewish thought, covering sources from scripture through the whole of ancient, medieval, and modern rabbinic literature. Systematic surveys of related medical, scientific, philosophical, ethical, and legal material, with thousands of references.\n\nArticles in the Encyclopedia cover a wide range of topics both for the medical professional and the patient. It combines halachic principles and medical knowledge, with full references for both. It includes medical, scientific, philosophical, ethical, and legal material, from scripture and Talmud through to the most recent sources.\n\nThe articles include: Paternity, Suicide, Autonomy and Free Will, Hospitals, Genetics, Religion and Science, Consent, Abortions, IVF, Organ Transplantation, Conflict of Halacha and Science, Old Age, The Patient, Embalming, Malpractice, Pain, Kashrut and Shabbat, Birth, Medical Education, Human Sexuality, Limited Resources, Medical Experimentation on Humans, Surgery, Confidentiality, Fertility, Lifesaving, Causing Pain to Animals, Triage, Defining Death, Physicians, and General and Jewish Ethics.\n\nBy A.S. Abraham, M.D., F.R.C.P \n\nPublished as four-volume set, the Nishmat Avraham on Medical Halacha consists of new responsa and new medical halachic rulings. The Nishmat Abraham is a commentary on the four sections of the Shulchan Aruch with detailed references from the Talmud through Rishonim and Acharonim. It covers thousands of rulings from halachic literature, including up-to-date material from contemporary authorities all over the world such as Rav M. Feinstein, Rav Sh.Z. Auerbach, Rav Waldenberg, Rav Eliashiv, Rav Ovadia Yosef, Rav Wosner and Rav Neuwirth.\n\nProblems are covered as far-ranging as the doctor and patient on weekdays and Shabbat, Yom Kippur and Pesach, in the hospital or at home, hospice, end of life and brain death, pregnancy and assisted reproduction, contraception and abortion, brit milah and the medical problems of niddah, medical malpractice and claims, genetic engineering and cloning, DNA and stem cells, AIDS and herpes, the threatened doctor and the psychiatric patient, Hatzalah and preventive medicine and their attendant problems in halacha.\nThe views of leading authorities are comprehensively summarized on each point, covering nearly every issue in medical halacha. It has extensive indices.\nThe institute published other books including:\n\n\nWhen a medical procedure raises ethical or moral issues that are in contradiction with halacha, the International Responsa Project is considered to be a reliable rabbinical authority. People all over the world send the Schlesinger Institute questions, some of a general, theoretical nature and some of a very specific, technical nature. The questions are answered by one of the rabbi-doctors at the Institute, or, in special cases, by a recognized rabbinical authority.\n\nThe Library and Information Center is one of the main resource centers for Jewish medical ethics in Israel. All the standard texts of the Jewish library can be found there, as well as compendiums of halacha, medical and Jewish journals, and legal texts. Computer facilities, a database of Jewish sources, and a bibliography of the library are available to the public. The information center is named after Chaim Kahn, the first chairman of the institute.\n\nContributions to the halachic approach to medical or ethical questions are made at the international conferences organized by the Schlesinger Institute. These conferences bring together rabbis, doctors, and others from around the world for lectures by experts on contemporary medical halachic issues. Conference proceedings and background materials have been published in both English and Hebrew.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50175982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50175982", "title": "Scott Aikin", "text": "Scott Aikin\n\nScott F. Aikin (born 1971) is an American philosopher, Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee, where he also holds a joint appointment in Classics. He earned an M.A. in Philosophy from the University of Montana in 1999 and a Ph.D. in Philosophy from Vanderbilt University in 2006. His principal areas of research are epistemology, argumentation theory, ancient philosophy, and pragmatism.\n\nAikin's work in epistemology is devoted to the elaboration and defense of two views: evidentialism and epistemic infinitism. His case for evidentialism is articulated in his Evidentialism and the Will to Believe, in which he defends William Kingdon Clifford's version of evidentialism against William James's critiques. Clifford holds in \"The Ethics of Belief\" that \"It is wrong always, everywhere, and for anyone, to believe anything upon insufficient evidence.\" James denies this, claiming that cases of faith – particularly those in which belief in a truth can help bring about the truth – are exceptional. Replying on behalf of Clifford, Aikin argues that such cases are not exceptions, because knowledge that one's belief in a proposition makes that proposition more likely to be true amounts to evidence for that proposition. \nAikin has also contributed to the public debate about the ethics of belief in religious contexts, in Reasonable Atheism. Aikin's case for epistemic infinitism, developed in Epistemology and the Regress Problem, holds that given the requirement that all reasons must have backing, the only options for rational belief are either skepticism or infinite, non-repeating chains of justifying reasons. In \"Prospects for Moral Epistemic Infinitism,\" Aikin argues that these are also requirements of moral knowledge.\n\nAikin is a proponent of the epistemic theory of argument, according to which the primary norms of argumentation are those that promote the communication of knowledge. His central argument for this view is that it uniquely precludes an absurdity that arises on the alternatives. Namely, the possibility that one may be convinced by an argument, yet know no more after the argument than before. Aikin further argues that the main competitor theories of argument are either self-refuting or implicitly epistemic. His work in theory of argument has led Aikin to develop a program of expansive fallacy theory. Aikin poses an analysis of ad hominem tu quoque arguments that establishes the conditions for determining relevance of hypocrisy. He has (with Robert Talisse and John Casey) proposed a variety of straw man fallacies: the representational (straw) man, the selectional (weak) man, the hollow man, and the iron man. Additionally, Aikin and Talisse have proposed a fallacy of ridicule they term \"modus tonens,\" which consists in repeating an interlocutor's claim with an incredulous tone of voice. Finally, Aikin also defends, along with Trudy Govier, the minimally adversarial theory of argument. This view acknowledges that, argumentation, as an act of addressing controversy, must have an essential adversarial component, but maintains that this adversariality must not be permitted to escalate.\nAikin, in Why We Argue, offers an introduction to argumentation theory for the context of public political debate. As an author, he has been collected by libraries worldwide.\n\nAikin's work in ancient philosophy focuses primarily on knowledge and its connection to the good life in the ancient world. Of particular interest are Xenophanes, the Academic Skeptics, and the Stoics. With Xenophanes, Aikin argues that the famous contrary to fact conditional \"if horses had had hands and drew their gods, they would look like horses\" is an enthymatic argument against self-serving representations of the divine. Aikin's work on the skeptics has focused on the variety of arguments offered for the skeptical viewpoint. In particular, Aikin has argued that the Academics' \"Argument from Second Place\" is a unique positive epistemic argument for skepticism. Further, Academic epistemology, Aikin has argued, is well-placed to dovetail with republican political views.\n\nAikin is a proponent of the neo-pragmatist movement in American philosophy. This movement is posited on the view that there is a fecund interplay between the methods and language of analytic philosophy, and the aspirations of pragmatism. In \"Pragmatism: A Guide for the Perplexed,\" Aikin and Talisse argue that the insights of classical pragmatism can be seen to merge with the analytic program, which gives rise to a number of important research agendas – particularly in epistemology, metaphysics, ethics, and political philosophy. Along with Talisse, Aikin has argued that pragmatism and moral pluralism are in tension, and hence that pragmatists cannot be pluralists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41858659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41858659", "title": "Sean Dorrance Kelly", "text": "Sean Dorrance Kelly\n\nSean Dorrance Kelly is an American philosopher, currently the Teresa G. and Ferdinand F. Martignetti Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University, where he also serves as Faculty Dean of Dunster House. A graduate of Brown University, he received his PhD from the University of California, Berkeley. He is known for his expertise on various aspects of the philosophical, phenomenological, and cognitive neuroscientific nature of human experience. He is featured in Tao Ruspoli's film \"Being in the World\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36519241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36519241", "title": "Seong Huian", "text": "Seong Huian\n\nSeong Huian(korean:성희안;成希顔, 1461–1513) was a Korean Joseon Dynasty politician and Neo-Confucianism Philosopher served as Prime Minister or Chief State Councillor during the reign of King Jungjong in 1513 until his death . He was one of the coup leaders and maximum merits to become Jungjong a King .\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51433973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51433973", "title": "Sigismondo Polcastro", "text": "Sigismondo Polcastro\n\nSigismondo Polcastro (1384–1473) was an Italian physician and natural philosopher. He was born to a jurist father, Girolamo, of the ancient de Porcastris family of Vicenza, and Maddalena Volpe of Padua. Perhaps born in Vicenza, he moved to Padua while he was still a boy.\n\nHe received a doctorate in arts from the University of Padua in 1412, taught natural philosophy from 1419, obtained a doctorate in medicine in 1424, and taught medicine from 1426 to 1464 or 1465. He wrote several short medical works.\n\nIn 2016, he was pronounced the progenitor of the largest group of mathematicians in the Mathematics Genealogy Project, which groups mathematicians by teacher–student mentoring relationships, via his student Pietro Roccabonella.\n"}
{"id": "206346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206346", "title": "Sir William Hamilton, 9th Baronet", "text": "Sir William Hamilton, 9th Baronet\n\nSir William Hamilton, 9th Baronet FRSE DD FSAS (8 March 1788 – 6 May 1856) was a Scottish metaphysician. He is often referred to as William Stirling Hamilton of Preston, in reference to his mother, Elizabeth Stirling.\n\nHe was born in rooms at the University of Glasgow He was from an academic family, his younger brother being Robert Hamilton, the economist. His father Professor William Hamilton, had in 1781, on the strong recommendation of William Hunter, been appointed to succeed his own father, Dr Thomas Hamilton, as Regius Professor of Anatomy, Glasgow; and when he died in 1790, aged 32, he had already gained a great reputation. William Hamilton and his younger brother, Thomas Hamilton, were brought up by their mother.\n\nWilliam received his early education at Glasgow Grammar School, except for two years which he spent in a private school at Chiswick in Kent, and in 1807 went as a Snell Exhibitioner, to Balliol College, Oxford. He obtained a first class in \"literis humanioribus\" and took his BA in 1811 (MA 1814). He had been intended for the medical profession, however soon after leaving Oxford he gave up this idea, and in 1813 became a member of the Scottish bar, as a qualified advocate. His life continued to be that of a student; and the years that followed were filled by researches of all kinds, while at the same time he was gradually forming his philosophic system. Investigation enabled him to make good his claim to represent the ancient family of Hamilton of Preston, and in 1816 he took up the baronetcy, which had been in abeyance since the death of Sir Robert Hamilton of Preston (1650–1701), well known in his day as a covenanting leader. He inspired many young adults.\n\nTwo visits to Germany in 1817 and 1820 led to William's taking up the study of German and later on that of contemporary German philosophy, which was almost entirely neglected in British universities. In 1820 he was a candidate for the chair of moral philosophy in the University of Edinburgh, which had fallen vacant on the death of Thomas Brown, colleague of Dugald Stewart, and Stewart's consequent resignation, however he was defeated on political grounds by John Wilson, (1785–1854), the \"Christopher North\" of \"Blackwood's Magazine\". In 1821 he was appointed professor of civil history, and delivered several courses of lectures on the history of modern Europe and the history of literature. The salary was £100 a year, derived from a local beer tax, and was discontinued after a time. No pupils were compelled to attend, the class dwindled, and Hamilton gave it up when the salary ceased. In January 1827 his mother, to whom he had been devoted, died. In March 1828 he married his cousin, Janet Marshall.\n\nAround this time he moved to live in a recently built townhouse at 11 Manor Place, in Edinburgh's west end.\n\nIn 1829 his career of authorship began with the appearance of the well-known essay on the \"Philosophy of the Unconditioned\" (a critique of Victor Cousin's \"Cours de philosophie\")--the first of a series of articles contributed by him to the \"Edinburgh Review\". He was elected in 1836 to the University of Edinburgh chair of logic and metaphysics, and from this time dates the influence which, during the next 20 years, he exerted over the thought of the younger generation in Scotland. Much about the same time he began the preparation of an annotated edition of Thomas Reid's works, intending to annex to it a number of dissertations. However before this design had been carried out, he was struck, in 1844, with paralysis of the right side which seriously crippled his bodily powers, though left his mind unimpaired.\n\nThe edition of Reid appeared in 1846, but with only seven of the intended dissertations, one unfinished. At his death he had still not completed the work; notes on the subjects to be discussed were found among his manuscripts. Considerably earlier, he had formed his theory of logic, the leading principles of which were indicated in the prospectus of \"an essay on a new analytic of logical forms\" prefixed to his edition of Reid. But the elaboration of the scheme in its details and applications continued during the next few years to occupy much of his leisure. Out of this arose a sharp controversy with Augustus de Morgan. The essay did not appear, but the results of the labour gone through are contained in the appendices to his \"Lectures on Logic\".\n\nHamilton also prepared extensive materials for a publication which he designed on the personal history, influence and opinions of Martin Luther. Here he advanced so far as to have planned and partly carried out the arrangement of the work; but it did not go further, and still remains in manuscript. In 1852–1853 appeared the first and second editions of his \"Discussions in Philosophy, Literature and Education\", a reprint, with large additions, of his contributions to the \"Edinburgh Review\". Soon after, his general health began to fail. Assisted by his devoted wife, he persevered in literary labour; and during 1854–1855 he brought out nine volumes of a new edition of Stewart's works. The only remaining volume was to have contained a memoir of Stewart, but this he did not live to write. Hamilton was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1855. He taught his class for the last time in the winter of 1855–1856. Shortly after the close of the session he was taken ill, and died in Edinburgh.\n\nHe died on 6 May 1856 and was buried in St John's Episcopal Churchyard at the east end of Princes Street in Edinburgh. The stone is not in its original location and is used to edge the enclosure at the east end of the church.\n\nHe had married Janet, the daughter of Hubert Marshall, and was succeeded by his son Sir William Stirling-Hamilton, 10th Baronet, a general in the British Army. How did he die? No one knows@\n\nIn 1840 the University of Leyden granted him an honorary Doctor of Divinity (DD), a rarity for persons outwith the clergy.\n\nHamilton's positive contribution to the progress of thought is comparatively slight, but he stimulated a spirit of criticism in his pupils by insisting on the great importance of psychology as opposed to the older metaphysical method, and by his recognition of the importance of German philosophy, especially that of Immanuel Kant. By far his most important work was \"Philosophy of the Unconditioned,\" the development of the principle that for the human finite mind there can be no knowledge of the Infinite. The basis of his argument is the thesis, \"To think is to condition.\" Deeply impressed with Kant's antithesis between subject and object, the knowing and the known, Hamilton laid down the principle that every object is known only in virtue of its relations to other objects. From this it follows that limitless time, space, power, etc., are inconceivable. The fact, however, that all thought seems to demand the idea of the infinite or absolute provides a sphere for faith, which is thus the specific faculty of theology. It is a weakness characteristic of the human mind that it cannot conceive any phenomenon without a beginning: hence the conception of the causal relation, according to which every phenomenon has its cause in preceding phenomena, and its effect in subsequent phenomena. The causal concept is, therefore, only one of the ordinary necessary forms of the cognitive consciousness limited, as we have seen, by being confined to that which is relative.\n\nAs regards the problem of the nature of objectivity, Hamilton simply accepts the evidence of consciousness as to the separate existence of the object: \"the root of our nature cannot be a lie.\" In virtue of this assumption Hamilton's philosophy becomes a \"natural realism.\" In fact his whole position is a strange compound of Kant and Reid. Its chief practical corollary is the denial of philosophy as a method of attaining absolute knowledge and its relegation to the academic sphere of mental training. The transition from philosophy to theology, i.e. to the sphere of faith, is presented by Hamilton under the analogous relation between the mind and the body. As the mind is to the body, so is the unconditioned Absolute or God to the world of the conditioned. Consciousness, itself a conditioned phenomenon, must derive from or depend on some different thing prior to or behind material phenomena. Curiously enough, however, Hamilton does not explain how it comes about that God, who in the terms of the analogy bears to the conditioned mind the relation which the conditioned mind bears to its objects, can be unconditioned. God can be regarded only as related to consciousness, and insofar is, therefore, not absolute or unconditioned. Thus the very principles of Hamilton's philosophy are apparently violated in his theological argument.\n\nHamilton regarded logic as a purely formal science; it seemed to him an unscientific mixing together of heterogeneous elements to treat as parts of the same science the formal and the material conditions of knowledge. He was quite ready to allow that on this view logic cannot be used as a means of discovering or guaranteeing facts, even the most general, and expressly asserted that it has to do, not with the objective validity, but only with the mutual relations, of judgments. He further held that induction and deduction are correlative processes of formal logic, each resting on the necessities of thought and deriving thence its several laws. The only logical laws which he recognised were the three axioms of identity, noncontradiction, and excluded middle, which he regarded as severally phases of one general condition of the possibility of existence and, therefore, of thought. The law of reason and consequent he considered not as different, but merely as expressing metaphysically what these express logically. He added as a postulate—which in his theory was of importance--\"that logic be allowed to state explicitly what is thought implicitly.\" in logic, Hamilton is known chiefly as the inventor of the doctrine of the \"quantification of the predicate,\" i.e. that the judgment \"All A is B \" should really mean \"All A is all B,\" whereas the ordinary universal proposition should be stated \"All A is some B.\" This view, which was supported by Stanley Jevons, is fundamentally at fault since it implies that the predicate is thought of in its extension; in point of fact when a judgment is made, e.g. about men, that they are mortal (\"All men are mortal\"), the intention is to attribute a quality (i.e. the predicate is used in connotation). In other words, we are not considering the question \"what kind are men among the various things which must die?\" (as is implied in the form \"all men are some mortals\") but \"what is the fact about men?\" We are not stating a mere identity (see further, e.g., H. W. B. Joseph, \"Introduction to Logic\", 1906, pp. 198 foll.).\n\nThe philosopher to whom above all others Hamilton professed allegiance was Aristotle. His works were the object of his profound and constant study, and supplied in fact the mould in which his whole philosophy was cast. With the commentators on the Aristotelian writings, ancient, medieval and modern, he was also familiar; and the scholastic philosophy he studied with care and appreciation at a time when it had hardly yet begun to attract attention in his country. His wide reading enabled him to trace many a doctrine to the writings of forgotten thinkers; and nothing gave him greater pleasure than to draw forth such from their obscurity, and to give due acknowledgment, even if it chanced to be of the prior possession of a view or argument that he had thought out for himself. Of modern German philosophy he was a diligent, if not always a sympathetic, student. How profoundly his thinking was modified by that of Kant is evident from the tenor of his speculations; nor was this less the case because, on fundamental points, he came to widely different conclusions.\n\nHamilton was more than a philosopher; his knowledge and interests embraced all subjects related to that of the human mind. He studied anatomy and physiology. He was also well-read in ancient and modern literature, being particularly interested in the 16th and 17th centuries. Among his literary projects were editions of the works of George Buchanan and Julius Caesar Scaliger. His general scholarship found expression in his library, which became part of the library of the University of Glasgow.\n\nHe also may have had influence upon subsequent philosophy as the inspiration for a critique by John Stuart Mill which resulted in perhaps the clearest statements ever of the idea of matter as the permanent possibility of sensation.\n\nHis chief practical interest was in education—an interest which he manifested alike as a teacher and as a writer, and which had led him long before he was either to a study of the subject both theoretical and historical. He thence adopted views as to the ends and methods of education that, when afterwards carried out or advocated by him, met with general recognition; but he also expressed in one of his articles an unfavourable view of the study of mathematics as a mental gymnastic, which excited much opposition, but which he never saw reason to alter. As a teacher, he was zealous and successful, and his writings on university organisation and reform had, at the time of their appearance, a decisive practical effect, and contain much that is of permanent value.\n\nHis posthumous works are his \"Lectures on Metaphysics and Logic\" (1860), 4 vols., edited by HL Mansel, Oxford, and John Veitch (\"Metaphysics\"; \"Logic\"); and \"Additional Notes to Reid's Works, from Sir W. Hamilton's Manuscripts.\", under the editorship of HL Mansel, D.D. (1862). \"A Memoir of Sir W. Hamilton\", by Veitch, appeared in 1869. \"Philosophy\" (1873).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6712031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6712031", "title": "Stanley Rosen", "text": "Stanley Rosen\n\nStanley Rosen (July 29, 1929 – May 4, 2014) was Borden Parker Bowne Professor of Philosophy and Professor Emeritus at Boston University. His research and teaching focused on the fundamental questions of philosophy and on the most important figures of its history, from Plato to Heidegger.\n\nRosen was born in Cleveland, Ohio. He was a student of Leo Strauss at the University of Chicago, where he defended his dissertation on Spinoza in 1955. He was also a student of Alexandre Kojève. He did his postdoctoral work at the American School of Classical Studies in Athens, and became Evan Pugh Professor of philosophy at Penn State University and then Borden Parker Bowne Professor of Philosophy at Boston University. He has held the Companys Lectureship at the University of Barcelona, the Cardinal Mercier Lectureship at University of Leuven, the Priestley Lectureship at the University of Toronto, and the Gilson Lectureship at the Institut Catholique in Paris. He served as President of the Metaphysical Society of America in 1991.\n\nRosen's first two books, a study of Plato's \"Symposium\" and \"Nihilism: A Philosophical Essay\", represent his abiding concerns. On the one hand he continuously returned to the roots of the philosophical tradition, in particular to Plato, and, on the other, he thought through modern and postmodern philosophy by confronting their most powerful representatives. The most notable feature of this engagement was the justice done to the two main strands of contemporary philosophy, the continental and analytic movements, represented by their most influential members, Heidegger and Wittgenstein, as preparation for Rosen's criticism and positive proposals.\n\nOne of the central themes of Rosen's work is the claim that the extraordinary discourses of philosophy have no other basis than the intelligent understanding of the features of ordinary life or human existence. This theme was given an in-depth treatment in his 2002 work, \"The Elusiveness of the Ordinary\".\n\nRosen married his wife, Francoise, in 1955; they had three children and four grandchildren.\n\n\n\n The Limits of Analysis\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36468174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36468174", "title": "Stephen Darwall", "text": "Stephen Darwall\n\nStephen Darwall (born 1946) is a contemporary moral philosopher, best known for his work developing Kantian and deontological themes. He is Andrew Downey Orrick Professor of Philosophy at Yale University.\n\nA 1968 graduate of Yale University, he earned his PhD in Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh under Kurt Baier in 1972. He began his teaching career at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill in 1972, and then joined the Department of Philosophy at the University of Michigan philosophy department, where he is, since 2006, John Dewey Distinguished University Professor Emeritus. He has been a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences since 2001. He and David Velleman are founding co-editors of \"Philosophers' Imprint\". He specializes in the foundations and history of ethics.\n\n\nHe also has written an ethics textbook:\n"}
{"id": "11409916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11409916", "title": "Sylviane Agacinski", "text": "Sylviane Agacinski\n\nSylviane Agacinski-Jospin (born 4 May 1945) is a French philosopher, feminist, author, professor at the École des hautes études en sciences sociales (EHESS), and wife of Lionel Jospin, former Prime Minister of France.\n\nAgacinski's parents were immigrants from Poland, and her sister is French actress Sophie Agacinski. Agacinski is the mother of a son by philosopher Jacques Derrida, who directed the EHESS, and she became the stepmother of Lionel Jospin's two children with their marriage.\n\nAgacinski met Jospin in 1983, at her sister Sophie's wedding. They married 11 years later. She stayed on the sidelines in Jospin's candidacy for president in 1995, but was much more active in his candidacy for president in 2002. At that time she changed her name to Agacinski-Jospin to \"bow to the will of the people\", but continues to use her maiden name as a philosopher. In the fall of 2002, after Jospin's surprise exclusion from the runoffs to Jacques Chirac and Jean-Marie Le Pen, Agacinsky published \"Journal Interrompu\", a book about the election in diary form, blaming Chirac, the French media, and the French left's internal rivalries.\n\nAs a feminist philosopher, Agacinski is associated with \"differentialism\", an important strain of French feminism, which argues that the human condition cannot be understood in any universal way without reference to both sexes. She's cited as writing, \"We want to keep the freedom to seduce and be seduced. There will never be a war of the sexes in France,\" in her 1998 book, \"Sexual Politics\".\n\nIn 1999, Agacinski was a leading originator of a bill to amend article three of the Constitution of France to include a phrase stating: \"The law will encourage equal access for women and men to political life and elected posts.\" With Jospin's support, the so-called \"Parité\"(\"Parity\") amendment was made on June 28, 1999, and was followed by a law, on May 3, 2000, obliging the country’s political parties to present 50% female candidacies in virtually any race, or lose a corresponding share of their governmental campaign funding. In the 2002 legislative elections, the first under the new law, Le Pen's National Front was among the few parties to come close to meeting the law, with 49% female candidates; Jospin's Socialists had 36%, and Chirac's UMP had 19.6%.\n"}
{"id": "50224047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50224047", "title": "Tamara Tarasenko", "text": "Tamara Tarasenko\n\nTamara Tarasenko (; ; born May 24, 1939, Moscow, Soviet Union — died May 23, 1992, Odessa, Ukraine)\nprofessor, philosopher, the first Chairman of the Board of Dr. Haass Social Assistance Fund (1987).\nGraduated with honors from the philological faculty of the Odessa State I. I. Mechnikov University (OSU) in 1961. PhD thesis - \"Regulatory Aspects of Social Functioning of the Language” (1974).\n\nWorked as a Russian language and literature teacher, senior librarian at the University Scientific Library, professor at the Department of Philosophy, Head of the Department of Philosophy, Director of the Odessa State University Library.\n\nAccording to the memoirs of one of the founders of the Dr. Haass Social Assistance Fund, a distinguished lawyer of Ukraine Alexander Muchnik, on November 26, 1987 T. A. Tarasenko was elected the first chairman of the Board of one of the first in the USSR non-governmental charitable organization. Occupying the post of the Head of the Department of Philosophy at the Odessa State University, T.A. Tarasenko played an important role in the official legalization of the charitable organization under the difficult conditions of the Soviet bureaucracy. As the Head of the Foundation she was personally involved in the direct provision of social assistance to people in need. T.A.Tarasenko laid the tradition in charity management system of moral, dedicated and selfless service to others.\n\nAccording to numerous memoirs of her colleagues, T.A. Tarasenko was one of the first in the Soviet Union to develop and begin delivering lectures on the History of Russian 20th century philosophy. Thanks to her, students of the university first got to know the works of Berdyaev, Bulgakov, Ilyin, Lossky, Rozanov, Solovyov, Fedorov, Florensky, Florovsky, Frank, Shestov et al. at that time kept in special depositories. In her lectures and seminars T. A. Tarasenko practiced the method of the famous Soviet philosopher Genrikh S. Batishchev (1932-1990) - a \"deep dialogue\", a dialogue that involves not only mind but also conscience, a moral component of the personality of her students.\n\nIn her teaching activities she had a genuine respect to students' dignity, thinking and personal traits of character. She came to help in need, showing sensitivity to the inner world of a young man.\n\nIn 1991, being seriously ill and suffering from pain, she carried on teaching, delivering lectures and seminars. She considered it her duty to complete the course of lectures for the Law faculty students.\n\nDied on May 23, 1992, buried in the North Cemetery of Odessa.\n\nThe memory of T. A. Tarasenko was engraved in the book by the Odessa State University professor Gennady P. Grebennik \"Intellectual Portrait in Odessa Interior. A Story about Tamara Tarasenko, and not only about her\". G. Grebennik wrote:\n\n“She lived next to us, but the secret of her existence was hidden from us. She was the only person I have encountered on my way who practiced a great, now vanished, tradition in Philosophy - the tradition of Socrates. She was a philosopher in the true sense of the word, because her purpose was not to discover formal scientific laws, but life itself in the harmony of all its aspects. Such is the mystery of her life, revealed to us after her death.”\n\nAt the request of the Fund the artist Lazar L. Gormakh (1924-2000) wrote in pastel a portrait of T. A. Tarasenko, displayed in the Fund along with the portraits of Friedrich Joseph Haass and Mother Teresa.\n"}
{"id": "31147578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31147578", "title": "The Theosophical Movement", "text": "The Theosophical Movement\n\nThe Theosophical Movement is a monthly magazine that was started by the United Lodge of Theosophists India under B.P. Wadia on 17 November 1930. It is a magazine that is devoted to the \"living of the higher life\". The monthly magazine is edited in Mumbai, India, by associates of the ULT. Its print and electronic editions have subscribers all over the world. All articles in the magazine are unsigned, except those that had been written by H.P.B., W.Q.J. or others who had made signed contributions in the older Theosophical magazines. Furthermore, articles in the magazine distinctly avoid all references to personal opinions and experiences of the author. These are directly in keeping with one of the core tenets of anonymity and \"impersonality\" of ULT associates as expressed by Robert Crosbie. The magazine is dedicated to:\n"}
{"id": "48514507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48514507", "title": "Timofei Bondarev", "text": "Timofei Bondarev\n\nTimofei Mikhailovich Bondarev (Тимофе́й Миха́йлович Бо́ндарев 3 April 1820—3 November 1898) was a Russian peasant philosopher. He wrote the treatise \"The Triumph of the Farmer or Industry and Parasitism\", which inspired Leo Tolstoy. Tolstoy saw to its publication in 1888 and 1906.\n\nBondarev was born a serf in southern Russia. When he was 37, his owner signed a commission to send him to the army for a 25-year conscription period. The conscription forcibly separated Bondarev from his wife and children. In the military, he renounced his Russian Orthodox faith and joined the Subbotniks, a Sabbatarian sect. In 1867 he was arrested for apostasy, discharged from the army, and sentenced to a life in exile on the Yenisei River in far eastern Russia.\n\nAs the only literate resident of his village, Bondarev founded a school, where he taught for 30 years in addition to farming. He also developed his philosophy of labor, which he wrote about in his treatise, \"The Triumph of the Farmer or Industry and Parasitism\". His philosophy centered on the concept of \"bread-labor\", by which all men, regardless of social status, are morally obligated to perform the manual labor necessary to sustain themselves.\n\nLeo Tolstoy read the treatise in 1885 and started a long correspondence with Bondarev. He also went to great lengths to publish the work. The first two attempts were censored, but in 1888, the weekly journal \"Russkoye Delo\" (\"The Russian Cause\") published a version edited by Tolstoy, who also provided a supplementary essay. It was translated into English and French in 1890. In 1906, Tolstoy's publishing house The Intermediary published the treatise in book form.\n"}
{"id": "21115465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21115465", "title": "Unrequited love", "text": "Unrequited love\n\nUnrequited love or one-sided love is love that is not openly reciprocated or understood as such by the beloved. The beloved may not be aware of the admirer's deep and strong romantic affection, or may consciously reject it. The Merriam Webster Online Dictionary defines unrequited as \"not reciprocated or returned in kind\".\n\nPsychiatrist Eric Berne states in his book \"Sex in Human Loving\" that \"Some say that one-sided love is better than none, but like half a loaf of bread, it is likely to grow hard and moldy sooner.\" Others, however, like the philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche, considered that \"indispensable...to the lover is his unrequited love, which he would at no price relinquish for a state of indifference.\" It can also be contrasted with redamancy or the act of reciprocal love.\n\nAccording to Dr. Roy Baumeister, what makes a man or woman desirable, of course, is a complex and highly personal mix of many qualities and traits. But falling for someone who is much more desirable than oneself, whether because of physical beauty or attributes like charm, intelligence, wit or status, Baumeister calls this kind of mismatch \"prone to find their love unrequited\" and that such relationships are falling upward. According to some psychologists, opposites do attract, but it is not possible to attract those whose moral values are different.\n\n'Platonic friendships provide a fertile soil for unrequited love'. Thus the object of unrequited love is often a friend or acquaintance, someone regularly encountered in the workplace, during the course of work, school or other activities involving large groups of people. This creates an awkward situation in which the admirer has difficulty in expressing their true feelings, a fear that revelation of feelings might invite rejection, cause embarrassment or might end all access to the beloved, as a romantic relationship may be inconsistent with the existing association.\n\nThe inability of the unrequited lover to express or declare their love leads to negative feelings such as depression, low self-esteem, anxiety and rapid mood swings between depression and euphoria.\n\n'There are two bad sides to unrequited love, but only one is made familiar by our culture' – that of the lover, not the rejector. In fact, research suggests that the object of unrequited affection experiences a variety of negative emotions on a par with those of the suitor, including anxiety, frustration and guilt. As Freud long since pointed out, 'when a woman sues for love, to reject and refuse is a distressing part for a man to play'.\n\nUnrequited love has been a frequent subject in popular culture. Movies, books and songs often portray the would-be lover's persistence as paying off when the rejector comes to his or her senses. The presence of this script makes it easy to understand why an unrequited lover persists in the face of rejection. In the traditional Welsh folk song Cariad Cywir, the protagonist persists in unrequited love happily despite being continuously ignored. However, there have been other depictions in which the unrequited lover commits suicide, as in Goethe's early novel \"The Sorrows of Young Werther\" or in the traditional British Isles folk ballad \"I Once Loved a Lass\". \n\nIn Billy Bragg's song \"The Saturday Boy\", the young protagonist looks up the word \"unrequited\" in the dictionary whilst in the state of unrequited love.\n\n\"Johnny Angel\", a number one hit song by singer and actress Shelley Fabares, has a relatively notable example of unrequited love. According to the lyrics of this song, a girl falls in love with a boy who doesn't even know that she exists. She even declines countless dates with other boys, just to fully concentrate on the boy she loves. And she has dreams about what the world would be like if the boy loves her. In its sequel, \"Johnny Loves Me\", also by Fabares, the girl later wins Johnny's heart, convincing him to believe that the girl does exist.\n\nThe comics strip \"Peanuts\" features multiple different characters engaged in unrequited love relationships. Commenting on the abundance of unrequited love in the series, author Charles Schulz said that he did not know why there is so much unrequited love, but it is something everyone can relate to.\n\nUnrequited love has long been depicted as noble, an unselfish and stoic willingness to accept suffering. Literary and artistic depictions of unrequited love may depend on assumptions of social distance that have less relevance in western, democratic societies with relatively high social mobility and less rigid codes of sexual fidelity. Nonetheless, the literary record suggests a degree of euphoria in the feelings associated with unrequited love, which has the advantage as well of carrying none of the responsibilities of mutual relationships: certainly, \"rejection, apparent or real, may be the catalyst for inspired literary creation... 'the poetry of frustration'.\"\n\nEric Berne considered that \"the man who is loved by a woman is lucky indeed, but the one to be envied is he who loves, however little he gets in return. How much greater is Dante gazing at Beatrice than Beatrice walking by him in apparent disdain\".\n\nRoman poet Ovid in his \"Remedia Amoris\" \"provides advice on how to overcome inappropriate or unrequited love. The solutions offered include travel, teetotalism, bucolic pursuits, and ironically, avoidance of love poets\".\n\nIn the wake of his real-life experiences with Maud Gonne, in a further twist, W. B. Yeats wrote of those who 'had read/All I had rhymed of that monstrous thing/Returned and yet unrequited love'. According to Robert B. Pippin, Proust claimed that 'the only successful (sustainable) love is unrequited love'. According to Pippin, sometimes 'unrequited love...has been invoked as a figure for the condition of modernity itself'. Examples of unrequited love include W. B. Yeats, Stendhal, Dante, Ayn Rand, Hans Christian Andersen, and Goethe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5018128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5018128", "title": "Vasile Pogor", "text": "Vasile Pogor\n\nVasile V. Pogor (Francized \"Basile Pogor\"; August 20, 1833 – March 20, 1906) was a Moldavian, later Romanian poet, philosopher, translator and liberal conservative politician, one of the founders of \"Junimea\" literary society. Raised in the aristocratic circle of Iași, and educated in the French Empire, he had a career in law. He was a civil servant during the United Principalities regime, held seats and commissions in the Assembly of Deputies, and, after the proclamation of the Kingdom of Romania, was Mayor of Iași City. Although he had a major role in creating the Conservative Party, by fusing together the various \"White\" political clubs and Masonic Lodges, Pogor was more loyal to the \"Junimist\" inner faction, and stood by it when it split with the other Conservatives.\n\nAn irreligious evolutionist, and taking an interest in Buddhist studies, Pogor represented the Positivist cell at \"Junimea\". He was also one of the first locals to study the work of Henry Thomas Buckle, integrating Bucklean concepts into \"Junimea\"s critique of nation building. He supported Romania's Westernization within a conservative framework, tempering nationalist presumptions and valuing a culturally pluralistic society. The notoriously indolent and improvident Pogor had a preference for orality, and was sought after for his Voltairian wit. He left few written works, and many unfulfilled projects, but influenced Romanian literature as a cultural promoter, sponsor, and the first local expert on Charles Baudelaire. He was known to his \"Junimea\" colleagues as a one-man \"contemporary library\".\n\nPogor's final decades were spent away from the national scene, although he still took on assignments in the Conservative and \"Junimist\" chapters of Iași County. \"Casa Pogor\", his main residence, is closely associated with \"Junimist\" history. Although sold by its debt-stricken owner in 1901, it was revived in the 1970s as a literary history museum, theater venue and concert hall. Married to the Russian aristocrat Elena Hartingh, Pogor left an illegitimate son, Vasile Panopol.\n\nAccording to various accounts, the Pogors were a clan of yeomen from the eponymous Pogorăști, raised into boyar nobility ca. 1820. The family's own pedigree claimed otherwise, namely that its members had been \"enjoying native privileges\" since ancient times. On the basis of such claims, Vasile Pogor Sr had a steady climb through the Moldavian civilian and military bureaucracy: he began his career as a \"Serdar\" (1819), before being made a \"Comis\" for life. During his 1816–1823 mission into the Bessarabian Governorate, Russian Empire, Pogor kidnapped Zoița Cerchez, granddaughter of a local \"Clucer\". From this marriage, he had three daughters—Antonia, Eleonora, Smaranda—and a son, the future poet. By the time of his birth, the family owned large boyar estates in both Vaslui County (including Buhăiești and Râșești) and Bessarabia.\n\nAs a political poet in the Age of Revolution, \"Comis\" Pogor looked back with disgust on the late Phanariote period and the Eterist invasion, satirizing the ambitions of Greek immigrants to Moldavia. In the late 1830s, he would be equally opposed to the Moldavian \"status quo\", criticizing the heavy-handed Moldavian sovereign Mihail Sturdza. His rhyming pamphlets envisaged equality before the law, their author having signed up to the \"Confederative Conspiracy\", planned by Moldavia's proto-liberal boyardom. He still held several high political-judicial offices in the last quarter of Sturdza, including the \"Agie\" and the Justice Department chairmanship.\n\nPogor Sr's worldview also owed much to his familiarity with French literature. He corresponded with Chateaubriand, wishing to publish his poetry in a Moldavian edition, but is probably best known as Voltaire's first Romanian-language translator. His version of the \"Henriade\" was published in neighboring Wallachia by the liberal intellectual Ion Heliade Rădulescu. It and other translations by the \"Comis\" (\"Zaïre\", \"Désastre de Lisbonne\") may prove that Pogor the younger was already familiar with Voltaire and Voltarianism from early childhood.\nBorn in Iași, the Moldavian capital, Vasile Jr was selected for the most modern forms of education available to Moldavians living in the 1840s. He first attended the liberal arts' school of Frenchman Malgoverné, and, in addition to discovering an interest in literature, became a skilled amateur draftsman. In October 1849, young Pogor took the stagecoach ride to Kraków, and then the train to Paris, accompanied by the boyar heirs Heraclide, Porfiriu, Miclescu and Teodor Veisa, and chaperoned by Malgoverné himself. The scene of their departure from Iași is preserved in a sketch drawing by Veisa, which shows the enthusiastic adolescents leaning out the carriage doors.\n\nPogor completed his education in France. He is widely seen as formed by French education, but, according to cultural sociologist Zigu Ornea, this is only part of the story: Pogor did not graduate from a \"lycée\", but was actually trained at a Germanophone boarding school; was not introduced to Bonapartism, but to \"the ideological principles of Restoration\". As argued by author Gheorghe Manolache, Pogor was one of those who saw French culture as \"speculative\", and sought to amend its influence with German or Anglophone borrowings. In late 1851, he took an extended study trip through the German Confederation, in lieu of service in the Moldavian military forces. The Moldavian state granted him dispensation, and awarded him the rank of Cadet.\n\nPogor was subsequently enlisted at the University of Paris Law School, where he took his doctorate in law. His contact with the Parisian salons was of major formative importance: he was an avid reader and, as literary historian Tudor Vianu notes, \"always open to new things, ready to defeat prejudice\", if rather indiscriminate. Pogor's one constant was the study of the classics: he reread Homer's \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" once every year. His other known pursuits were non-academic. Pogor discovered \"comédie en vaudeville\" theater, kept company with mature women, and began fantasizing about writing his own novels and short stories.\n\nThe Pogors enjoyed high political profiles during and after the Crimean War, when the Moldavian and Wallachian principalities became a condominium of the Great Powers. Before his death in 1857, Pogor Sr was head of the appellate court (\"Divanul de apel\", later \"Curtea de apel\"), and one of the boyars tasked with welcoming in the foreign overseers. Upon his return to Moldavia, the young lawyer became sole owner of a palatial residence, \"Casa Pogor\", built by his father in 1850, on land previously owned by the Cerchez and Coroi boyars. He also took assignments in the judicial apparatus. He was a judge in Iași from 1857 to 1858, and a member of the appellate court after March 1859. Although cutting the figure of an eccentric among the stern bureaucrats, he managed to impress Costache Negruzzi, his hierarchical superior and celebrated novelist. In his account, Pogor displayed \"something rare in our folk\": \"a great feeling for justice\".\n\nThe Pogors still maintained close links with the areas on the other side of the Prut River: Antonia Pogor became the wife of Bessarabian boyar Dumitru Bantîș. When he married the Bessarabian heiress Elena Hartingh, Vasile established a connection with Russian nobility. His father-in-law was a Karl \"Scarlat\" Hartingh (or Garting), owner of an estate in Pohrebeni. Elena's grandfather was Ivan Markovich Garting, an ethnic Finn who had served as Bessarabian Governor; her grandmother, \"Elenco\" Hartinga, was closely related to the high-ranking boyardom of Moldavia.\n\nFrom early 1859, Moldavia and Wallachia formed a single Romanian state, known as the \"United Principalities\" and ruled upon by \"Domnitor\" Alexandru Ioan Cuza. Still employed by the Moldavian appellate court under Cuza's regime, Pogor objected to the fiscal policies of Premier Nicolae Crețulescu, and resigned in September 1863, shortly followed by his colleague Alexandru Papadopol-Calimah. By then, he had resumed his literary projects. The first achievement of Pogor's work as a translator was his retelling of Goethe's \"\", with Nicolai Skelitti as co-author, saw print in 1862. Samples of his own poetry were published by the pro-Cuza magazine \"Din Moldova\", whose editor was a future enemy, the Romantic novelist and scholar Bogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu.\n\nThe United Principalities era saw Pogor's activity blending into the cultural projects of \"Junimea\" literary society. Founded in stages ca. 1863, that club was originally focused on literary debates and popular education. Its founders were five young graduates, all but one of them boyars. Pogor and Theodor Rosetti were French-trained; Petre P. Carp and Iacob Negruzzi (Costache's son) had studied in the German Confederation. The fifth was Titu Maiorescu, an upper-middle-class intellectual trained in both French and German schools, generally seen as the leading voice of \"Junimism\", the cultural and political concept.\n\nLittle is known about the first years of \"Junimism\". The five founders left only a handful of notes on the subject, and discouraged others from investigating the topic. Pogor himself mystified on the subject: he laughed off the historiographic attempts and, playfully reusing a literary cliché, informed newer members of the club that \"\"Junimea\"s origin is lost in the mist of time\". His version of events subverted other accounts, including the vague memoirs of Iacob Negruzzi. Pogor thus claimed that \"Junimea\" existed in large part because of him. In Pogor's account, the first manifestation of what would become \"Junimea\" was a study group comprising himself, Skelitti, Papadopol-Calimah, Theodor Aslan, Iorgu Gane, Ioan Ianov, and some other prominent Iași intellectuals; to the irritation of other \"Junimists\", he constantly backdated \"Junimea\"s existence to 1862. His account is not validated by the written records, and other sources (themselves scanty) suggest that, although invited by Maiorescu, Pogor did not in fact attend the so-called \"first \"Junimea\" meeting\" (February 9, 1864).\n\nPogor was nonetheless present at other (possibly earlier) gatherings, which gave a more formal status to the reunions. In his half-mythical narrative of events, presented at later \"Junimea\" banquets, Pogor insisted that the first day of \"Junimism\" was a Friday (\"vineri\"), and that, as such, the club was under the divine patronage of Venus. Based on the available reconstructions of events, the club's name seems to have been selected by Rosetti, and ceremoniously validated by Pogor—whom the other founders already recognized as their \"\". The resulting society had little in the way of a published program, but the generic lines, including efforts to rationalize the spelling of Romanian and to provide affordable education, survive in one of I. Negruzzi's letters.\n\nPogor's large townhouse is popularly understood as the \"Junimea\" headquarters, but, at least initially, the club also met at Maiorescu's place, and occasionally at Negruzzi's. Indirectly, the young boyar helped found the club's own printing press, which was donated to Maiorescu by Pogor's Bessarabian cousin, the philanthropist Nicolae Ștefan Casso, and, after 1867, the literary sheet \"Convorbiri Literare\". The latter's mailing address was \"Casa Pogor\". Pogor himself managed the publishing firm, but did a notoriously poor job. Described by Ornea as \"a man for all the hasty projects\" and as an \"absent-minded\" individual, Pogor ran heavy debts and frequently changed managers (Ioan Mire Melik, Al. Farra etc.). The \"Junimist\" publishing house was barely keeping afloat once Pogor took money out of the budget to create a book store—one of such niche appeal as to make Pogor the only buyer of his books.\n\nAt \"Junimea\", Pogor was a picturesque figure. Ornea suggests that, despite being a respectable boyar and the oldest among the founders, Pogor was also the most \"child-like\" in his reactions. Witnesses recall that he was always amused by the literary works presented for analysis, laughing \"till his new teeth jumped out of his mouth\", and casually reclining on a sofa as the debates were taking place. Negruzzi recalled that, in defiance for \"any social habit\", Pogor left his guests unattended to read his books; he writes that, on first impression, Pogor appeared \"cheeky and missing something upstairs\". Moreover, Pogor embarrassed his friends with his obscene anecdotes, his name-calling, and his occasional outbursts, during which he would hurl his cape at them.\n\nHowever, Pogor's lolling habit and thundering laughter soon became fashionable, and his yawning during the others' recitations was intentionally loud, provocative and contagious. He justified such heckling with the expression \"Entre qui veut, reste qui peut\" (French for \"enters who wishes, stays on who can stand it\"), later a \"Junimea\" motto. The slogan resonated with the \"caracudă\" (\"small game\") wing of \"Junimea\"—mostly passive youngsters who came in for entertainment, and who, Ornea notes, were \"apparently immune to beauty and ignorant\".\n\nFor all his unorthodox stances, Pogor was regarded by all his colleagues as a towering intellect, and referred to as \"the contemporary library\". The \"Junimist\" colleagues repeatedly noted that he was the man to bring in not just irreverence, but also genuine innovation. Vianu describes his \"merciless gibes\" as stemming from a conviction that the others were too uptight, and in general from a rejection of \"dogmatism\"; Pogor, he writes, would \"embrace in turn all sorts of attitudes\". Another scholar, Șerban Cioculescu, describes Pogor as by character \"a free, unambitious, spirit, an epicurean of intelligence\". Similarly, Ornea cautions: \"If Maiorescu has conferred a consistent substance to \"Junimea\", then Pogor gave it a pinch of salt, wit, humor and—an essential element—skepticism, that is to say a sense of relativity.\"\n\nEncouraged by the other club members, Pogor became the anthologist of bad journalism and literature, scouring anti-\"Junimist\" periodicals and picking out the most amusing enormities and the most embarrassing platitudes. These he then pasted into his \"Dosar\" (\"Dossier\"), which is for most part a subtle political attack on the \"Red\" ideology of Romanian liberalism and Romantic nationalism. Ornea notes: \"those who have discussed the \"Junimea Dossier\" as politics in disguise, practiced by a literary circle that had denied itself—under pain of sanction—any politically derived conversation, they were not at all in the wrong.\" Already in 1863, the \"Junimists\" had engaged in battle the literary representatives of Romanian liberalism, including \"Din Moldova\"s B. P. Hasdeu. The latter dedicated his activity as a journalist to deriding or condemning the \"Junimea\" group, Pogor included, accusing it of standing for values not complementary with the Romanian way: cosmopolitanism and Germanophilia, elitism and philosemitism.\n\nWhile these debates gathered in notoriety, Pogor was also joining in the yearly cycle of \"Junimea\" conferences, or \"prelecțiuni\". He, Maiorescu, and Carp were the core group of lecturers during the first age of the \"prelecțiuni\". The subjects were broad and the inspiration spontaneous, but the speakers still followed Maiorescu's elaborate ceremonial, which reduced direct contact with the listeners. In 1864, Pogor discussed the French Revolution, and specifically its \"impact on modern ideas\". There was a break in the following year, with Maiorescu having been involved in a sex scandal, but the lecturers returned in 1866, when the common theme was \"factors of national life throughout history\". Pogor was also contributing to the \"Junimea\" who's who of Romanian poetry, selecting for reading pieces by the 18th-century boyar Ienăchiță Văcărescu. At the \"prelecțiuni\", Pogor spoke about Ancient Greek art; in 1867, about Shakespearean tragedy; during later cycles, he discovered and introduced for the general public the philosophy of Arthur Schopenhauer. Still focused on national identity constructs and the philosophy of history, he promoted at \"Junimea\" the evolutionist treatise \"History of Civilization in England\", by Henry Thomas Buckle.\n\nMeanwhile, Pogor the politician was drawn into secretive, then conspiratorial, work. Pogor in Iași, and Carp in Bucharest, helped organize the February 1866 putsch against the authoritarian Cuza, and supported the interim government presided upon by both liberal \"Reds\" and conservative \"Whites\". On February 15, the Romanian Regency appointed Pogor Prefect of Iași County, and he was also a regional representative in the Assembly of Deputies (quickly elected for the drafting of a new constitution). On April 28, he was elected as one of its secretaries. For most of the year, he had a noted role in persuading his colleagues to accept bicameralism, and thus contributed to the establishment of the Senate of Romania. In March, he was also sent back to the appellate court, as section president, serving until January 1868. According to scholar George Călinescu, he began supplementing his revenue with \"multiple and ephemeral\" special commissions, including that of teacher certification examiner (October 1866).\n\nPogor was received into the Freemasonry (Oriental Rite of Memphis, Grand Orient de France) on March 14, 1866, and, only a year later, reached the 90th Masonic Degree. Within the divided Romanian Freemasonry, he sided with the Moldavian Lodge called \"Star of Romania\": he was the Orator under Venerable Master Iorgu Sutzu. Joined by most of the \"Junimist\" personalities, this institution would open up a new front against the \"Reds\", challenging their xenophobia and antisemitism. The Lodge opened its ranks to people of various backgrounds, including Romanian Jews, but was off-limits to the Moldavian liberals. The Lodge members, Pogor and Maiorescu included, set up and helped edit a \"White\" political sheet, \"Constituțiunea\" (\"Constitution\"), later \"Gazeta de Iassi\". Initially, the paper joined the ranks of Moldavian regionalists, complaining about Iași's social, cultural, and demographic decline under Romanian rule; however, by March 30, Pogor and Maiorescu had also affiliated with the centralizing National Party, where they talked of finding other roles for the declining former capital. Against separatists such as Constantin Moruzi and the Free and Independent Faction, they sought a cemented union, proposing the selection of a foreign ruler from Romance-speaking Europe.\n\nWith the arrival on the throne of a German prince, Carol of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen, the anti-Cuza coalition was again divided into competing factions. However, Ornea writes, just two \"Junimist\" leaders had openly engaged in party politics: \"Petre Carp and—unbelievably so!—the freaky V. Pogor.\" This despite the fact that Iași's Masonic Lodge had become a junior wing of the \"White\" party, and was portrayed by the local \"Red\" polemicists as an anti-Christian fraternity. No longer committed to the principle of a \"Latin\" prince, Pogor openly supported the new \"Domnitor\"—he was one of 109 deputies (from a total 115) to ratify the April plebiscite. The \"Star of Romania\" Lodge invited Carol to join its ranks and become leader of the unified Freemasonry. Around 1867, against antisemitic agitation by the Free and Independent Faction, the \"Junimist\" core, Pogor included, signed up to a proposal for Jewish emancipation, meaning the Jewish minority's effective naturalization. Probably initiated by the \"Star of Romania\", their petition asked \"Domnitor\" Carol to \"establish legal order\" in front of \"anarchy\", noting that the liberals worked to \"kidnap hundreds of Jews\".\n\nBy 1869, Pogor and Carp had also rallied with the Society of Young Dynasticists, which conspired with dissident liberals such as Gheorghe Mârzescu to elect only monarchists into office—for instance, during 1869. The early 1870s transformed \"Junimea\" into a moderate conservative political movement, annexed to the \"White\" wing of the political spectrum. For Maiorescu, theirs was the cause of restoration and order in front of \"Red\" agitation (the Republic of Ploiești episode), but also adverse to the \"arch-conservatives\" who wanted a return of boyar privileges. Within this setting, Pogor found that his political status progressed quickly: from January 1869 to May 1870, he was president of the appellate court. Yet, as Tudor Vianu notes, he still treated political assignments \"with a certain indifference.\"\n\nAt the beginning of that decade, \"White\" Premier Manolache Costache Epureanu opened his cabinet to \"Junimist\" experts, and Pogor was expected to take over a top administrative position. Carp, who negotiated the deal, vouched for Pogor's competence. Pogor resigned before the so-called \"Hen and Fledgling\" cabinet was even sworn in. Reportedly, he complained of dorsopathy, leaving Maiorescu worried that he had developed neurosyphilis. Pogor declared himself cured within a few days, announcing that he was ready to take over as Romania's Minister of Education. According to various sources, he actually held the office, if only briefly. His unexpected renunciation cleared the path for Maiorescu's own political ascent, moving him from a position in the background to the \"Fledgling\" Education portfolio.\n\nPogor still was a notable participant in polemics, taking Maiorescu's side. One such case was that of disputes between the \"Junimists\" and an ultra-\"White\" group headed by Epureanu. The latter wanted to institute an authoritarian regime favoring the upper class and favored some exotic policies—generalizing the death penalty or opening the country to massive German colonization. Probably wishing to maintain \"White\" unity, the \"Junimists\", including Pogor, gave reluctant backing to the Epureanu program, and became targets for \"Red\" sarcasm, and were even chided by the dominant conservative club, that of Lascăr Catargiu. Pogor was also chairman of the \"Junimist\" \"Society for Sending Young Romanians on Study Trips\", noted for discovering and sponsoring the future atheistic philosopher Vasile Conta.\n\nIn parallel with his political chores, Pogor took up the task of translating some of Charles Baudelaire's \"Flowers of Evil\". \"Don Juan in Hell\" and \"Gipsies on the Road\" were both published by \"Convorbiri\" in March 1870. Before this moment, Baudelaire's work had been entirely unknown to Romanians, and casually ignored by Maiorescu, who preferred German Romanticism. Later, Pogor published adapted samples from other modern French figures (Victor Hugo, Théophile Gautier, Leconte de Lisle, Sully Prudhomme, Jean Richepin) alternating them with classical works by Horace (Ode III.26, in 1871) and Virgil (\"Copa\", in 1873). He and other \"Convorbiri Literare\" writers pioneered translations from American literature, most notably from the stories of Edgar Allan Poe. This was still just a fraction of Pogor's activity in the field. His papers reveal that he had also tried, but failed, to translate, among others, \"Rameau's Nephew\" by Diderot, Ludwig Uhland's \"The Minstrel's Curse\", and Volney's \"Les Ruines\".\n\nIn addition to his translation projects, \"Convorbiri Literare\" hosted his original works, beginning with the autobiographical piece \"A Marquise's Pastel\" (September 1868). In January 1871, still independent of party politics, the journal was reorganized as a cultural monthly. Pogor was assigned to the editorial committee, a triumvirate also grouping Maiorescu and Negruzzi. He and Maiorescu resigned soon after, alleging that Negruzzi had failed to consult them about the editorial policy, possibly because of a polemical review inserted by Ștefan Vârgolici. This did not imply that they would cease to write for \"Convorbiri\". Also that year, the magazine published a poem by Pogor's deceased father, newly discovered in the family archive. In October, when \"Junimea\" finally liquidated its publishing venture, Pogor was asked to take care of the debts and return the debit. Without Negruzzi's knowledge, the enterprise was purchased by the Jewish businessman Herșcu Goldner.\n\nMeanwhile, Hasdeu's \"Columna lui Traian\" paper had made it its mission to host samples from Pogor's poetry, to show its readers how one was not supposed to versify. Hasdeu registered a moral victory when a short poem by an \"M. I. Ellias\" saw print in the July 15 issue of \"Convorbiri Literare\". With Maiorescu in Bucharest, the piece had earned the approval of both Pogor and his rival, Mihai Eminescu. It was, in fact, a prank. Hasdeu had improvised the poem himself (calling it \"a rhyming frivolity\") so as to prove that \"Junimea\" writers lacked taste and patriotic feeling—\"there is not a [...] that \"Convorbiri Literare\" won't rush in to grab and hold by its bosom, provided one essential condition is met: that it does not include anything Romanian.\"\n\nThe \"Junimist\" faction made its formal entry into Parliament after the 1871 election. As a result of these, the nation's Assembly of Deputies included five \"Junimist\" members, voting with the \"White\" group: Pogor, Maiorescu, Negruzzi, N. Gane, Gheorghe Racoviță. After the partial elections of 1874, they were joined by two others: Carp (previously serving \"Domnitor\" Carol as a diplomat) and Th. Rosetti. As noted by his contemporaries, Pogor, even though selected as Vice President of the Assembly, was not an asset for the \"Junimist\" faction. George Panu, the \"Junimea\" memoirist, noted that Pogor was an incompetent public speaker, rarely present at the rostrum. When he did address the Assembly, Pogor was unrecognizable and \"embarrassing\", turning \"pale as a cadaver\", his voice \"shaking\" with timidity.\n\nPogor's own prolonged absences, like the political passions of other \"Junimist\" founders, were a cause for concern in Iași. Those who had stayed behind, Negruzzi included, complained that the club was dying out, with the reunions turning into glorified tea parties. As such, all the \"Junimea\" founders except Negruzzi were absent from the club's meeting on February 25, 1872.\n\nIn the end, when Negruzzi also accepted a government job, the club was reestablished to the national capital, Bucharest. The small Iași section survived for a while as a \"caracudă\" hotspot, experiencing what Ornea called \"a slow and embarrassing ending\". Pogor paid the occasional visit and, according to \"caracudă\" leader Nicolae Gane, behaved with restraint (\"against his nature\"). This was the time of Pogor's polemics with Eminescu. The latter, a voice of national conservatism, and recognized by posterity as the Romanian national poet, read out his fantasy novella \"Sărmanul Dionis\". As \"Junimea\" minutes will attest, Pogor and Maiorescu found the work to be all to cryptic, but still gave approval for its publishing. For a few months in 1874, Pogor allowed the penniless poet to lodge with him. Sources diverge on whether Eminescu lived at \"Casa Pogor\" or another one of the politician's townhouses, which has since been demolished.\n\nBy the close of his mandate in the Assembly, Pogor had involved himself in the Strousberg Affair dispute, suggesting (unsuccessfully) that ministers found guilty of misdeeds should have their revenue retained by the state. The Catargiu cabinet was facing a motion of no confidence over its stamp act proposal, with Pogor and Carp working to keep the two debates separate. He was again sent to the Assembly in the 1875 election, during which the \"Red\" opposition ran as a consolidated National Liberal Party (PNL). During this term, Pogor supported the establishment of a public railways authority, with compensation for other shareholders.\n\nDespite the looming PNL threat, Pogor, who had also been reelected chairman of the Iași appellate court, and N. Gane were absentee deputies, and were probably convinced that the Catargiu cabinet was about to crumble. Maiorescu, the acting Minister of Education and proponent of an unpopular education reform, was perplexed by their decision: \"Gane and Pogor should present themselves in Bucharest \"immediately\" [Maiorescu's italics]! Are we going to engage in politics or not? Is there any solidarity between those of you in Iași and me?\" Their effective abandon contributed to Maiorescu's resignation in January 1876, then to the arrival in power of a PNL ministry, surprisingly headed by the formerly ultra-\"White\" Epureanu. \n\nThe \"Junimists\" were soundly defeated in the subsequent elections of July 1876. Pogor managed to preserve his seat in the new legislature, which voted on Romanian independence during the War of '77. He was thus involved in parliamentary discussions about the thorny issue of antisemitic discrimination favored by the PNL: in early 1878, he was one of the few deputies who questioned the law preventing Romanian Jews from trading in distilled beverages. Alongside Carp, Gane, and Maiorescu, he enlisted as a member of the reserve militia (or Civic Guard) in Iași, thus serving alongside some members of the Free and Independent Faction.\n\nIn 1878, Pogor, who headed the Iași credit union, was also elected to the City Council. These was a time of great disorder among the \"Whites\", who were hard pressed to come up with an answer to the PNL's success. When it seemed that the \"White\" daily, \"Timpul\", was about to go under, Pogor joined up with the other \"Junimists\" in making peace with Catargiu, and in gathering funds for the newspaper—their assembly was the first step toward fusing together the major \"White\" factions.\n\nPogor was again a \"prelecțiuni\" guest in 1875, by which time the younger \"Junimists\" (A. D. Xenopol, Vasile Burlă etc.) had taken over the task of popular education. Pogor and I. Negruzzi tacitly accepted their supremacy, and, like them, lectured on topics exclusively linked to the concept of national identity. Each speaker was to concentrate on one aspect of historical acculturation, from the Romanian contact with Byzantine Greeks to the reception of German influences, but the schedule was only partly respected.\nPursuing his interest in Schopenhauer's work, Pogor discovered the Buddhist worldview. By the early 1880s, his study of Buddhist concepts had become more systematic: he read the scholarly works of Eugène Burnouf, then popularized Buddhist principles in a \"Convorbiri Literare\" series (1883–1884). With Maiorescu, and using German intermediaries, Pogor helped Romanians become acquainted with Classical Chinese poetry. While Maiorescu gave his touch to \"Zhuangzi\", Pogor rendered an anonymous (and possibly irretrievable) piece, called \"Lover Submitting\". In tandem, he looked into Sanskrit literature, translating translations from Amaru.\n\nOn February 3, 1880, Pogor was one of 88 \"White\" spokesmen who signed the founding document of Romania's Conservative Party. The Kingdom of Romania, proclaimed in 1881, was thus effectively ruled by a two-party system. For three non-consecutive terms, Pogor was the Conservative and \"Junimist\" Mayor of Iași: February 10, 1880 to April 26, 1881; June 7, 1888 to June 7, 1890; May 30, 1892 to November 11, 1894. He entered history for his creative approach to the Romanianization measures, specifically those which required all shops to have Romanian-language signs. Although this resonated with the \"Junimist\" idea of standardizing the language, and even though the Moldavian retailers were on the verge of rebelling, Pogor is said to have had \"great fun\" dealing with the consequences. He proposed that all shops still carrying non-essential foreign words be taxed at three times the official rate.\n\nCultural history preserves his dialogue with a Jewish merchant, who told him that Romanian had no assimilated word for \"liqueurs\"; Pogor spontaneously approximated an equivalent, \"licheruri\" (or even its current form, \"lichioruri\"). Instead of the French term \"parfumerie\" (\"perfume retailer\"), he suggested \"parfumeraie\" or \"parfumăraie\". Chaos followed, and the Romanianization campaign was abandoned. In the end, only one firm was touched the experiment, adopting the willingly absurd title of \"Șateaucs aucs fleurs\"—a macaronic rendition of the French \"Châteaux aux fleurs\" (\"Flower Castles\").\n\nPogor also took care of various other projects, ensuring that the city was compensated by the central government for having lost its status of state capital: 10 million lei entered the city budget (6 of which were compensation from the Romanian state), and 8 neighboring estates were merged into the metropolitan area. He moved the City Hall into Roznovanu Palace, ordering works to begin on the Iași National Theatre, public bathing facilities, ten primary schools, and a new Abattoir. Under Pogor, the streets of Iași were paved with macadam, gas lighting was extended, and sanitation works were started. \"Casa Pogor\" was the city's first electrically-lit building. His mandates saw the erection of statues honoring the pioneer Moldavian historian Miron Costin (1888) and the \"Junimist\" poet Vasile Alecsandri (1890).\n\nPogor was also a factor in the rapprochement between the Maiorescu \"Junimists\", who had again divorced the Catargiu Conservatives, and the moderate core of the PNL. Although Maiorescu himself rejected a ministerial appointment in the Ion Brătianu administration, he and the other self-styled \"moderate conservatives\" backed Brătianu's practical foreign policy. In February 1884, he promised that Pogor and other disgruntled Conservatives (Menelas Ghermani, Gheorghe Manu, Anastasie Triandafil etc.) would follow him in proclaiming conditional support for Brătianu. Maiorescu thus saved the government from a likely recall, and was embraced by an enthusiastic Brătianu while the Assembly looked on. The \"Junimist\" realignment gave the club a permanent representation at the epicenter of Romanian politics. Maiorescu received accolades from the cabinet and, in the November 1884 election, his men received nine seats in the Assembly, negotiated upon with the PNL, and three more for \"independent\" members; Pogor, Iacob Negruzzi, Ioan Mire Melik and Ioan Ianov were the \"Junimist\" deputies from Iași. As noted by Maiorescu, Pogor was somewhat harder to win over by the PNL's cartel: \"Even Pogor, who had favored the reunified opposition, has grown tired of their parties and feels that he should stand with us\".\n\nThe \"Junimists\" ambitions were frustrated by Brătianu only months after the election, when he still refused to include members of the club into his administration. \"Junimea\" reverted to independent politics, its conflict with the PNL exacerbated by a personal dispute between Maiorescu and National Liberal politico Eugeniu Stătescu. Pogor still suggested that \"Junimea\" should back the anti-PNL \"United Opposition\", betting Maiorescu that the latter would be called into power by the monarch. Maiorescu won this challenge: in early 1888, after a bloody incident in the Assembly sabotaged all communication between the two main parties, Carol appointed Th. Rosetti as Romanian Premier, and an all-\"Junimist\" cabinet was in power for just under a year. In September 1888, alongside Dimitrie Ghica-Comănești and Ilariu R. Isvoranu, Pogor negotiated an alliance with the mainline Conservatives, allowing Rosetti to secure his office.\n\nIn the election of October, Pogor did not rally with the Conservative–\"Junimist\" caucus, and joined the dissident Liberals of Dimitrie Brătianu, winning at ballotage for Iași County, Second College. He also continued to be listed as a \"Junimist\", and took another seat in the race for the First College. Rosetti's cabinet was by then supported by the Conservatives, but fell when a Conservative deputy, Nicolae Moret Blaremberg, stirred political conflicts by proposing to indict the PNL's former governing team—such a project was regarded by Rosetti and the \"Junimists\" as entirely demagogic. Both Pogor and Maiorescu were also partly responsible for the PNL's return to power: they abstained form voting against the motion of no confidence which toppled Rosetti.\n\nFrom 1889 to 1890, during the \"Junimists\" reestablishment as an independent party, and again after the 1891 election, Pogor was Vice President of the Assembly. As Panu recalls, he was making a mockery of this assignment: he doodled caricatures of his colleagues, pulled pranks on them \"just like in school\", and satirized parliamentary procedures with parody statements (such as \"the motion has been defeated with a crushing minority\"). In the early 1890s, he was firmly committed to the Conservative Party, and served on its Iași committee—alongside Ianov, Grigore Sturdza, A. C. Cuza, Alecu D. Holban, Nicolae Culianu, and Petru Th. Missir. Pogor was also drafted into the panel which negotiated an alliance with the Radical Party before the county elections of September 1895, and then into the nomination committee for the general election.\n\nIn December 1897, Pogor and his \"Junimist\" colleagues again withdrew from the Conservative caucus, only to return before the 1899 county election, in which Pogor and Missir stood as candidates. By November 1900, when the Conservatives and \"Junimists\" finally merged into one party, Pogor was again the chairman of the credit union. He also became a member of Iași's Conservative Party steering committee, involving himself in strategy planning ahead of the 1901 general election. Having poorly invested his own sizable fortune, he found himself pestered by his many creditors. One of his biographers, Liviu Papuc, noted that, overall, the first \"Junimist\" generation ran into financial trouble, and that Pogor ended his career on an \"even score\" with life. In 1901, he sold \"Casa Pogor\" to socialite Maria Moruzi. The \"Junimist\" co-founder died on March 20, 1906, at his other address—a vineyard in the Iași suburb of Bucium; according to his fellow Conservative Rudolf Șuțu, he \"passed on among his family, placid and smiling, as he had lived\". His tomb is located in Eternitatea cemetery.\n\nPogor's anti-dogmatism precluded his engagement on the more serious side of \"Junimism\". When approving of \"Junimea\"s name, he staged a fake baptism, asking those present to pledge that they would \"renounce pedantry\". His philosophical dilettantism was still influential at \"Junimea\": I. Negruzzi recalled that, during the club's sessions, Pogor systematically prevented historians and philologists from reporting on their concrete finds, and only listened to the generic conclusions. As Vianu notes, Pogor himself was virtually incapable of \"choosing\" between the many subjects that interested him at any one time. It is possible that Pogor is the author of an anonymous poem celebrating his own idleness and contrariness:\nWhile the \"caracudă\" rejoiced, the club's more idealistic visitors were disturbed by Pogor's antics. On these grounds, Pogor fully supported only the most subversive and eccentric manifestations of \"Junimist\" literature. He was the only one in the group not to approve of poet laureate Vasile Alecsandri. Although he later helped build the Alecsandri monument, he once shouted out that Alecsandri had \"a grocer's taste\" in art. Instead, Pogor loved the work of peasant storyteller Ion Creangă, and, to the indignation of some other club members, encouraged him to read aloud from his erotic literature series, \"the corrosives\". Later, Pogor welcomed in and shed a spotlight on the cynical, streetwise, humorist Ion Luca Caragiale, who was a passing guest at \"Junimea\". According to Șerban Cioculescu, Pogor differed from Eminescu in that he \"freely enjoyed [Caragiale's] charming spontaneity and temperamental zigzags.\" Pogor's nonconformism could target even the group's doyen, Maiorescu. He coined the disparaging nickname \"Muierescu\" (from \"muiere\", \"broad\", in reference to his colleague's alleged sexual misconduct).\n\nHis own work in poetry was reviewed with little sympathy by later critics and historians. They dismiss his original pieces as \"anodyne\" and not up to the test of time, although, as Rudolf Șuțu argues, they too helped engineer a literary language. Pogor was a Romanian Parnassian, reworking classical themes and seeking formal purity, and was especially influenced by Baudelaire and by Théophile Gautier. His verse includes an homage to \"Melencolia I\", the famous engraving by Albrecht Dürer—similarly titled \"Melancolie\". George Călinescu focuses his comments on the poem's atmospheric quality, noting that its \"French structure\" is exceptional in the \"Junimist\" context. The other \"Junimea\" bards, he suggests, still favored \"accessible\" poetry of the Young Germany kind. Beyond the Parnassian poems, Pogor applied his wit (or, as critic Cosmin Ciotloș calls it, \"unbelievably malicious spirit\") to the realm of parody. His joke poem, \"Vedenia\" (\"The Apparition\"), managed to impress rival Eminescu, who made the effort of transcribing it in his records of \"Junimea\" meetings.\n\nPogor's translation also produced mixed results. Scholar Dan Mănucă believes that the Romanian author found Baudelaire to be \"more of a picturesque eccentric and, certainly, not at all a literary innovator\"; for this reason, he only looked to Baudelaire's tamer writings, that excluded \"scandal\". Pogor's version of Hugo's \"Conscience\" made a positive impression, and was quoted by Grigore Pletosu in his propaedeutics to philosophy (1899). Pogor's other projects were often panned by experts. Classicist Nicolae Laslo sees Pogor's version of Horatian verse as mostly failed, \"with lots of gaucheries and naivetes.\" The Pogor–Skelitti rendition of Goethe, although verified by the two \"Junimists\" through previous French versions (Gérard de Nerval, Henri Blaze), is also considered problematic. Germanist Corina Jiva indicates that they had only a vague understanding of the German words they translated into Romanian. Pogor may have been aware of the shortcomings, since, after Skelitti died, \"Convorbiri\" issued a second version of \"Faust I\". It modified the first edition, and only credited one author: Pogor.\n\nVasile Pogor's roots were in Romanian Orthodoxy: his father was \"ktitor\" of the Misești Church. Pogor Jr was himself a student of Christian history, but his main focus was on Judaism, the Hebrew Bible, and the Christian Old Testament. He kept detailed notes on the minutiae of biblical lore, making notes about Gog and Magog, the \"Kinnor\", the \"Purim\" etc. Albeit fascinated by Jewish and Buddhist practices, the poet was mainly a Freethinker, seen by Vianu as \"of a Voltairian and Positivist extraction.\" The theories of Auguste Comte and positivist language in general were welcomed by Pogor and the other core \"Junimists\" even though, as Zigu Ornea notes, the leading exponents of Positivist discourse were secondary \"Junimists\" (Nicolae Xenopol, George Panu).\n\nPogor attacked religion as a lifeless institution, as seen in his poem \"Magnitudo parri\", credited by some as his masterpiece. For Pogor, a swallow's effort to raise its offspring is more worthy of attention than the Byzantine church looming over its nest:\nHistorian Balázs Trencsényi argues that Vasile Pogor, like the other \"Junimist\" doyens, engineered \"an epistemological break\" with the predominating school of Romantic nationalism, as well as with the 18th-century \"philosophes\", introducing instead Positivist and naturalistic approaches to social science. Taking his inspiration from Buckle, Pogor leaned toward environmental determinism as an explanation of historical processes. \"Warmer\" areas, he claimed, were predisposed to despotism, no matter how advanced there were materially. Trencsényi focuses on Pogor's proposal to separate the material and spiritual growth of a nation, thus contextualizing the \"Junimist\" critique of Romania's Westernization: \"[Pogor's views] served as a critical perspective to judge societies which reached a certain level of socio-economic modernity without an overall mental adaptation to the Western patterns.\"\n\nAlthough not explicitly extended to the Romanian paradigm, Pogor's introduction to Buckle formed an integral part of the \"Junimist\" discourse about nation building. As Ornea notes, Pogor struck the typical \"Junimist\" note with his critique of revolutionary doctrines, in pronouncements such as: \"had politicians not been meddling in to prevent the natural flow of things, progress would have occurred at a quicker pace\". Also according to Ornea, the study endures as both a relevant contribution to \"Junimism\" and a facet of Romanian philosophy in the 1870s. Trencsényi sees a direct link between the survival of \"despotism\" in post-modernization, as surveyed by Buckle and Pogor, and the \"Junimists\" rejection of Romania's top-to-bottom Westernization by the liberals. Pogor's vague critique is expanded upon by Th. Rosetti. Rosetti's essays postulate the unrelenting \"primitivism\" of Romanian society. The liberals stand accused of not having promoted a gradual, \"authentic\", modernization of Romanian institutions, and of having imposed their \"hybrid forms\" on the Romanian psyche.\n\nMaiorescu himself suggested that Pogor's Bucklean discovery facilitated \"Junimism\"s transformation into a socio-political movement. Other such influences came from Schopenhauer, and from John Stuart Mill's \"Subjection of Women\". Buckle influenced the main \"Junimist\" historical narratives, from Maiorescu's historical lectures to A. D. Xenopol's own \"History of Civilizations\". Pogor's own belief, namely that Romania was essentially peripheral to European civilization, was not readily welcomed by the national conservative faction at \"Junimea\". A glimpse of this is provided by a maverick \"Junimist\", George Panu, as a purported clash between Pogor and the autochthonist Eminescu. According to Panu, Pogor openly ridiculed national historians: \"What's all this about the history of the Romanians? Can't you see that we have no history? A people which has no literature, art, or past civilization—such a people is not worth the attention of historians... At a time when France could produce Molière and Racine the Romanians were in a state of utter barbarism.\" Eminescu retorted, promptly and (Panu notes) violently: \"What you call barbarism, I call the settled wisdom of a people that develops in conformity with its own genius and shuns any mixing with foreigners\" (alternatively translated as: \"the wisdom of a nation, which progresses according to the rhythm of its own genius, away from any foreign interference\").\n\nFactual or merely symbolic, this showdown has been interpreted by later historians as a good introduction to the conflicting perspectives on Romanian nationhood. In 1997, scholar Lucian Boia suggested: \"What we find summarized in these few lines is the great dilemma which has divided Romanian society for the last two centuries.\" Political scientist Ana Maria Dobre, who connects Pogor's supposed comments with Maiorescu's dismissal of early Romanian history as \"oriental barbarism\", introduces the Pogor–Eminescu exchange as \"a profound dichotomy opposing the defenders of the traditional, specific national values of organization and the supporters of an unconditional modernisation and adaptation to the occidental model in order to depart from a rudimentary type of society.\"\n\nVisual portrayals of Pogor include a sketch by Eugen N. Ghika-Budești, first published in 1895. It shows the \"Junimist\" relaxing among lewd devadasis, \"leaving behind him the boredom that is the Vice President's chair\". A posthumous bust, the work of Iași sculptor Dan Covătaru, was also exhibited in the city. In literature, Eminescu's 1878 parody of the \"Odyssey\", referencing a moment of \"Junimist\" crisis, portrays Pogor as \"the swineherd Pogoros\" (the club's own Eumaeus). In addition to his affectionate memoirs, Iacob Negruzzi also made Pogor the subject of an 1872 poem:\nPogor's work as poet and theorist was largely forgotten by later generations. This was noted by \"Junimea\" anthologist Eugen Lovinescu, who made the conscious effort of reviving the deterministic Parnassian, alongside other \"minor \"Junimists\"\", to evidence \"what they still have that's viable.\" Pogor left one son, Vasile Panopol, a once-famous historiographer of Iași. Born out of wedlock, Panopol had a similar taste for pranks, and belonged to the infamous \"black gang\" of rebellious aristocrats. While the Pogor book collection was on sale, and divided, soon after its owner died, \"Casa Pogor\" survives as a major historical landmark of Iași. After the Moruzi purchase, it became the childhood home of Maria Moruzi's son by Ion I. C. Brătianu, the renowned historian Gheorghe I. Brătianu. The new owners made structural changes, and replaced the Pogor family monograms with Moruzi arms.\n\nIn the late 1930s, Brătianu rented \"Casa Pogor\" to the Iași's Royal Commissioner, and, during World War II, it was confiscated by Soviet representatives. Nationalized during the first decades of Communist Romania, it was refurbished by the state only after 1968. It was ultimately created a museum in 1972 or 1973, and is a regional center of the Museum of Romanian Literature network (supervising other monuments, including, as of 1995, the Negruzzi Memorial House of Trifești). The main exhibit hall is mainly known for its Eminescu memorabilia, including the poet's death mask. Its tunnels and its halls have hosted art experiments, including an adaptation of Mircea Eliade's \"Domnișoara Christina\" (1999), an introduction to Senegalese music (2006), and a colloquium of the international avant-garde (2008).\n\nPogor has a following in the Romanian-speaking literary communities of Bessarabia, most of which is now the independent state of Moldova. During the period of Soviet rule in Bessarabia (the Moldavian SSR), references to Romanian cultural assets were usually shunned; this changed in the late 1980s, when Bessarabian cultural magazines were allowed to republish samples of classical Romanian literature. \"Nistru\" journal inaugurated the trend in 1988, choosing Pogor as the first contributor to revive. According to Moldovan essayist Maria Șleahtițchi: \"Why the magazine's editors should have selected such a minor writer is the stuff of rhetorical questions.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7596703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7596703", "title": "W. K. C. Guthrie", "text": "W. K. C. Guthrie\n\nWilliam Keith Chambers Guthrie, FBA (1 August 1906 – 17 May 1981), usually cited as W. K. C. Guthrie, was a Scottish classical scholar, best known for his \"History of Greek Philosophy\", published in six volumes between 1962 and his death. He served as Laurence Professor of Ancient Philosophy at the University of Cambridge from 1952 to 1973 and as master of Downing College, Cambridge from 1957 to 1972.\n\nAlthough of longstanding Scottish stock on both his father's and mother's side, Keith Guthrie was born and brought up in London where his father, Charles James Guthrie, pursued a career with the Westminster Bank.\n\nAfter attending Dulwich College, Guthrie went up to Cambridge University in 1925, winning the Eric Evan Spicer scholarship to Trinity College. He excelled in his studies, being supervised by, amongst others, Francis Cornford and A. S. F. Gow, and was placed in the first class of both Parts of the Classical Tripos, with distinction in Part II and the award of the Craven Prize.\n\nAfter graduating he embarked on a postgraduate career at Trinity. He met his future wife, Adele Marion Ogilvy, while supervising her undergraduate studies in 1929–1930. She was an Australian, from Melbourne, then studying at Newnham College, Cambridge. They married in 1933 and went on to have two children (one daughter and one son).\n\nIn 1930 Guthrie left Trinity College to take up a Bye Fellowship at Peterhouse, going on to become a full fellow in 1932. Between 1936–1937 he served as a university proctor and in 1939 was appointed as the university orator, a position he held for eighteen years, responsible for delivering speeches in Latin in honour of recipients of honorary doctorates.\n\nDuring the war he exchanged scholarship for military service serving in the Intelligence Corps between 1941 and 1945, based initially in London, then in St Albans and, from 1943, in Istanbul, achieving the temporary rank of major.\n\nReturning to Cambridge after the war, Guthrie was much in demand in his capacity as Orator, called upon to deliver Latin encomia in honour of such dignitaries as Winston Churchill, Clement Attlee, Jan Smuts, Nehru, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Viscount Slim and General Montgomery.\n\nIn 1946 he was promoted to reader before becoming the third Laurence Professor of Ancient Philosophy in 1952, the year in which he became a Fellow of the British Academy. In 1950 he edited an edition of his mentor Cornford's essays under the title \"The Unwritten Philosophy\".\n\nIn 1957 he moved to his third Cambridge college when invited to become the master of Downing College, where he would remain for the rest of his life. As master he took a full part in the administrative, cultural and social life of the college, occasionally preaching in the college chapel and supporting the undergraduate music club and boat club. He oversaw a rewriting of the college statutes and introduced a maximum term for a master of fifteen years, by which he chose voluntarily to abide although it did not apply to him.\n\nIn 1956 he was approached by the Syndics of the Cambridge University Press to write a history of ancient philosophy. The first volumes, devoted to the pre-Socratics, of what would be his life's magnum opus were published to high acclaim in 1962 and 1964. The work continued while serving as master of Downing and became his life's full mission after retiring from that position in 1972. The venture remained, however, unfinished at his death aged 74 in 1981 the year in which he published the sixth volume in the series, devoted to Aristotle.\n\nAs a philosopher Guthrie followed in the tradition of Cornford in believing that ancient philosophers should be read and interpreted against their own historical background, rather than engaged with, as has been the practice of later generations of classical philosophers, in the context of the whole canon of philosophy both ancient and modern.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "140659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140659", "title": "When God Was a Woman", "text": "When God Was a Woman\n\nWhen God Was a Woman is the U.S. title of a 1976 book by sculptor and art historian Merlin Stone. It was published earlier in the United Kingdom as The Paradise Papers: The Suppression of Women's Rites. It has been translated into French as \"Quand Dieu était femme\" (SCE-Services Complets d'Edition, Québec, Canada) in 1978, into Dutch as \"Eens was God als Vrouw belichaamd – De onderdrukking van de riten van de vrouw\" in 1979, into German as \"Als Gott eine Frau war\" in 1989 and into Italian as \"Quando Dio era una donna\" in 2011.\n\nStone spent approximately ten years engaged in research of the lesser-known, sometimes hidden depictions of the Sacred Feminine, from European and Middle Eastern societies, in preparation to complete this work. In the book, she describes these archetypal reflections of women as leaders, sacred entities and benevolent matriarchs, and also weaves them into a larger picture of how our modern societies grew to the present imbalanced state. Possibly the most controversial/debated claim in the book is Stones' interpretation of how peaceful, benevolent matriarchal society and Goddess-reverent traditions (including Ancient Egypt) were attacked, undermined and ultimately destroyed almost completely, by the ancient tribes including Hebrews and later the early Christians. To do this they attempted to destroy any visible symbol of the sacred feminine, including artwork, sculpture, weavings and literature. The reason being that they wanted the Sacred Masculine to become the dominant power, and rule over women and Goddess energies. According to Stone, the Torah or Old Testament was in many ways a male attempt to re-write the story of human society, changing feminine symbolism to masculine.\n\nThe book is now seen as having been instrumental in the modern rise of feminist theology in the 1970s to 1980s, along with authors such as Elizabeth Gould Davis, Riane Eisler and Marija Gimbutas. Some have related it as well to the work of authors Margaret Murray and Robert Graves.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38586334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38586334", "title": "William A. Graham (dean)", "text": "William A. Graham (dean)\n\nWilliam Albert Graham, Jr. (born 1943) is an American scholar of Islamic studies and the history of religion, the Murray A. Albertson Professor of Middle Eastern Studies and University Distinguished Service Professor at Harvard University.\n\nGraham was born August 16, 1943, in Raleigh, North Carolina. He earned his B.A. (1966) summa cum laude in comparative literature from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and his M.A. (1970) and Ph.D. (1973) from Harvard University in the History of Religion specializing in Islamic Studies. Graham joined the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Harvard in 1973, and became professor of the history of religion and Islamic studies in 1985. He has held Guggenheim and Alexander von Humboldt fellowships and is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and member of the American Philosophical Society. He is the recipient of the quinquennial international prize for contributions to Islamic studies of the International Research Centre for Islamic History, Art and Culture, Istanbul (2000), the lifetime achievement award of the \"Journal of Law and Religion\" (2012) and honorary doctorates of humane letters from Lehigh University (2005) and the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill (2004). He served as Director of Harvard's Center for Middle Eastern Studies (1990–96), chair of the Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations (1997-2002), and master of the undergraduate residential college of Currier House (1991-2003). He was named Murray A. Albertson Professor of Middle Eastern Studies in 2001, and the following year he joined the divinity school as its dean, where he served for ten years before returning to full-time teaching in 2012 as a University Distinguished Service Professor. He was elected to the American Philosophical Society in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23590167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23590167", "title": "Władysław Mieczysław Kozłowski", "text": "Władysław Mieczysław Kozłowski\n\nWładysław Mieczysław Kozłowski (November 17, 1858 in Kiev – April 25, 1935 in Konstancin-Jeziorna) was a Polish philosopher.\n\nKozłowski lectured at Brussels' \"Université Nouvelle\" and at Geneva University. In 1919–28 he was professor of the theory and methodology of science at Poznań University.\nHis philosophical views were a synthesis of Positivism and Neo-Kantism.\n\n\n\n"}
