{"id": "1512690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1512690", "title": "A Naturalist in Indian Seas", "text": "A Naturalist in Indian Seas\n\nA Naturalist in Indian Seas, or, Four Years with the Royal Indian Marine Survey Ship Investigator is a 1902 publication by Alfred William Alcock, a British naturalist and carcinologist. The book is mostly a narrative describing the \"Investigator\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s journey through areas of the Indian Ocean, such as the Laccadive Sea, the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea. It also details the history of the \"Investigator\", as well as the marine biology of the Indian Ocean.\n\nThe book is considered a classic in natural history travel, and in 1903, \"The Geographical Journal\" described it as \"a most fascinating and complete popular account of the deep-sea fauna of the Indian seas. The book is one of intense interest throughout to a zoologist\". In its original edition, \"A Naturalist in Indian Seas\" was 328 pages long and published in 8 volumes in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "147847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147847", "title": "Abstract expressionism", "text": "Abstract expressionism\n\nAbstract expressionism is a post–World War II art movement in American painting, developed in New York in the 1940s. It was the first specifically American movement to achieve international influence and put New York City at the center of the western art world, a role formerly filled by Paris. Although the term \"abstract expressionism\" was first applied to American art in 1946 by the art critic Robert Coates, it had been first used in Germany in 1919 in the magazine \"Der Sturm\", regarding German Expressionism. In the United States, Alfred Barr was the first to use this term in 1929 in relation to works by Wassily Kandinsky.\n\nTechnically, an important predecessor is surrealism, with its emphasis on spontaneous, automatic, or subconscious creation. Jackson Pollock's dripping paint onto a canvas laid on the floor is a technique that has its roots in the work of André Masson, Max Ernst, and David Alfaro Siqueiros. The newer research tends to put the exile-surrealist Wolfgang Paalen in the position of the artist and theoretician who fostered the theory of the viewer-dependent possibility space through his paintings and his magazine \"DYN\". Paalen considered ideas of quantum mechanics, as well as idiosyncratic interpretations of the totemic vision and the spatial structure of native-Indian painting from British Columbia and prepared the ground for the new spatial vision of the young American abstracts. His long essay \"Totem Art\" (1943) had considerable influence on such artists as Martha Graham, Isamu Noguchi, Jackson Pollock, Mark Rothko and Barnett Newman. Around 1944 Barnett Newman tried to explain America's newest art movement and included a list of \"the men in the new movement.\" Paalen is mentioned twice; other artists mentioned are Gottlieb, Rothko, Pollock, Hofmann, Baziotes, Gorky and others. Motherwell is mentioned with a question mark. Another important early manifestation of what came to be abstract expressionism is the work of American Northwest artist Mark Tobey, especially his \"white writing\" canvases, which, though generally not large in scale, anticipate the \"all-over\" look of Pollock's drip paintings.\n\nThe movement's name is derived from the combination of the emotional intensity and self-denial of the German Expressionists with the anti-figurative aesthetic of the European abstract schools such as Futurism, the Bauhaus, and Synthetic Cubism. Additionally, it has an image of being rebellious, anarchic, highly idiosyncratic and, some feel, nihilistic. In practice, the term is applied to any number of artists working (mostly) in New York who had quite different styles, and even to work that is neither especially abstract nor expressionist. California abstract expressionist Jay Meuser, who typically painted in the non-objective style, wrote about his painting \"Mare Nostrum\", \"It is far better to capture the glorious spirit of the sea than to paint all of its tiny ripples.\" Pollock's energetic \"action paintings\", with their \"busy\" feel, are different, both technically and aesthetically, from the violent and grotesque \"Women\" series of Willem de Kooning's figurative paintings and the rectangles of color in Mark Rothko's Color Field paintings (which are not what would usually be called expressionist, and which Rothko denied were abstract). Yet all four artists are classified as abstract expressionists.\n\nAbstract expressionism has many stylistic similarities to the Russian artists of the early 20th century such as Wassily Kandinsky. Although it is true that spontaneity or the impression of spontaneity characterized many of the abstract expressionists' works, most of these paintings involved careful planning, especially since their large size demanded it. With artists such as Paul Klee, Wassily Kandinsky, Emma Kunz, and later on Rothko, Barnett Newman, and Agnes Martin, abstract art clearly implied expression of ideas concerning the spiritual, the unconscious, and the mind.\n\nWhy this style gained mainstream acceptance in the 1950s is a matter of debate. American social realism had been the mainstream in the 1930s. It had been influenced not only by the Great Depression, but also by the muralists of Mexico such as David Alfaro Siqueiros and Diego Rivera. The political climate after World War II did not long tolerate the social protests of these painters. Abstract expressionism arose during World War II and began to be showcased during the early forties at galleries in New York such as The Art of This Century Gallery. The McCarthy era after World War II was a time of artistic censorship in the United States, but if the subject matter were totally abstract then it would be seen as apolitical, and therefore safe. Or if the art was political, the message was largely for the insiders.\n\nWhile the movement is closely associated with painting, and painters such as Arshile Gorky, Franz Kline, Clyfford Still, Hans Hofmann, Willem de Kooning, Jackson Pollock, and others, collagist Anne Ryan and certain sculptors in particular were also integral to abstract expressionism. David Smith, and his wife Dorothy Dehner, Herbert Ferber, Isamu Noguchi, Ibram Lassaw, Theodore Roszak, Phillip Pavia, Mary Callery, Richard Stankiewicz, Louise Bourgeois, and Louise Nevelson in particular were some of the sculptors considered as being important members of the movement. In addition, the artists David Hare, John Chamberlain, James Rosati, Mark di Suvero, and sculptors Richard Lippold, Raoul Hague, George Rickey, Reuben Nakian, and even Tony Smith, Seymour Lipton, Joseph Cornell, and several others were integral parts of the abstract expressionist movement. Many of the sculptors listed participated in the Ninth Street Show, a famous exhibition curated by Leo Castelli on East Ninth Street in New York City in 1951. Besides the painters and sculptors of the period the New York School of abstract expressionism also generated a number of supportive poets, including Frank O'Hara and photographers such as Aaron Siskind and Fred McDarrah, (whose book \"The Artist's World in Pictures\" documented the New York School during the 1950s), and filmmakers—notably Robert Frank—as well.\n\nAlthough the abstract expressionist school spread quickly throughout the United States, the major centers of this style were New York City and the San Francisco Bay area of California.\n\nIn the 1940s there were not only few galleries (The Art of This Century, Pierre Matisse Gallery, Julien Levy Gallery and a few others) but also few critics who were willing to follow the work of the New York Vanguard.\nThere were also a few artists with a literary background, among them Robert Motherwell and Barnett Newman, who functioned as critics as well.\n\nWhile New York and the world were yet unfamiliar with the New York avant-garde by the late 1940s, most of the artists who have become household names today had their well-established patron critics: Clement Greenberg advocated Jackson Pollock and the color field painters like Clyfford Still, Mark Rothko, Barnett Newman, Adolph Gottlieb and Hans Hofmann; Harold Rosenberg seemed to prefer the action painters such as Willem de Kooning and Franz Kline, as well as the seminal paintings of Arshile Gorky; Thomas B. Hess, the managing editor of \"ARTnews\", championed Willem de Kooning.\n\nThe new critics elevated their protégés by casting other artists as \"followers\" or ignoring those who did not serve their promotional goal.\n\nIn 1958, Mark Tobey became the first American painter since Whistler (1895) to win top prize at the Venice Biennale.\n\nBarnett Newman, a late member of the Uptown Group, wrote catalogue forewords and reviews, and by the late 1940s became an exhibiting artist at Betty Parsons Gallery. His first solo show was in 1948. Soon after his first exhibition, Barnett Newman remarked in one of the Artists' Sessions at Studio 35: \"We are in the process of making the world, to a certain extent, in our own image.\" Utilizing his writing skills, Newman fought every step of the way to reinforce his newly established image as an artist and to promote his work. An example is his letter on April 9, 1955, \"Letter to Sidney Janis: — it is true that Rothko talks the fighter. He fights, however, to submit to the philistine world. My struggle against bourgeois society has involved the total rejection of it.\"\n\nStrangely the person thought to have had most to do with the promotion of this style was a New York Trotskyist; Clement Greenberg. As long-time art critic for the \"Partisan Review\" and \"The Nation\", he became an early and literate proponent of abstract expressionism. The well-heeled artist Robert Motherwell joined Greenberg in promoting a style that fit the political climate and the intellectual rebelliousness of the era.\n\nClement Greenberg proclaimed abstract expressionism and Jackson Pollock in particular as the epitome of aesthetic value. He supported Pollock's work on formalistic grounds as simply the best painting of its day and the culmination of an art tradition going back via Cubism and Cézanne to Monet, in which painting became ever-'purer' and more concentrated in what was 'essential' to it, the making of marks on a flat surface.\n\nJackson Pollock's work has always polarised critics. Harold Rosenberg spoke of the transformation of painting into an existential drama in Pollock's work, in which \"what was to go on the canvas was not a picture but an event\". \"The big moment came when it was decided to paint 'just to paint'. The gesture on the canvas was a gesture of liberation from value—political, aesthetic, moral.\"\n\nOne of the most vocal critics of abstract expressionism at the time was \"The New York Times\" art critic John Canaday. Meyer Schapiro and Leo Steinberg along with Clement Greenberg and Harold Rosenberg were important art historians of the post-war era who voiced support for abstract expressionism. During the early-to-mid-sixties younger art critics Michael Fried, Rosalind Krauss, and Robert Hughes added considerable insights into the critical dialectic that continues to grow around abstract expressionism.\n\nDuring the period leading up to and during World War II, modernist artists, writers, and poets, as well as important collectors and dealers, fled Europe and the onslaught of the Nazis for safe haven in the United States. Many of those who didn't flee perished. Among the artists and collectors who arrived in New York during the war (some with help from Varian Fry) were Hans Namuth, Yves Tanguy, Kay Sage, Max Ernst, Jimmy Ernst, Peggy Guggenheim, Leo Castelli, Marcel Duchamp, André Masson, Roberto Matta, André Breton, Marc Chagall, Jacques Lipchitz, Fernand Léger, and Piet Mondrian. A few artists, notably Pablo Picasso, Henri Matisse, and Pierre Bonnard remained in France and survived.\n\nThe post-war period left the capitals of Europe in upheaval, with an urgency to economically and physically rebuild and to politically regroup. In Paris, formerly the center of European culture and capital of the art world, the climate for art was a disaster, and New York replaced Paris as the new center of the art world. In Europe after the war there was the continuation of Surrealism, Cubism, Dada, and the works of Matisse. Also in Europe, Art brut, and Lyrical Abstraction or Tachisme (the European equivalent to abstract expressionism) took hold of the newest generation. Serge Poliakoff, Nicolas de Staël, Georges Mathieu, Vieira da Silva, Jean Dubuffet, Yves Klein, Pierre Soulages and Jean Messagier, among others are considered important figures in post-war European painting. In the United States, a new generation of American artists began to emerge and to dominate the world stage, and they were called \"Abstract Expressionists\".\n\nThe 1940s in New York City heralded the triumph of American abstract expressionism, a modernist movement that combined lessons learned from Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso, Surrealism, Joan Miró, Cubism, Fauvism, and early Modernism via great teachers in America such as Hans Hofmann from Germany and John D. Graham from Ukraine. Graham's influence on American art during the early 1940s was particularly visible in the work of Arshile Gorky, Willem de Kooning, Jackson Pollock, and Richard Pousette-Dart among others. Gorky's contributions to American and world art are difficult to overestimate. His work as lyrical abstraction was a \"new language. He \"lit the way for two generations of American artists\". The painterly spontaneity of mature works such as \"The Liver is the Cock's Comb\", \"The Betrothal II\", and \"One Year the Milkweed\" immediately prefigured Abstract expressionism, and leaders in the New York School have acknowledged Gorky's considerable influence. The early work of Hyman Bloom was also influential. American artists also benefited from the presence of Piet Mondrian, Fernand Léger, Max Ernst, and the André Breton group, Pierre Matisse's gallery, and Peggy Guggenheim's gallery \"The Art of This Century\", as well as other factors. Hans Hofmann in particular as teacher, mentor, and artist was both important and influential to the development and success of abstract expressionism in the United States. Among Hofmann's protégés was Clement Greenberg, who became an enormously influential voice for American painting, and among his students was Lee Krasner, who introduced her teacher, Hofmann, to her husband, Jackson Pollock.\n\nDuring the late 1940s, Jackson Pollock's radical approach to painting revolutionized the potential for all Contemporary art that followed him. To some extent, Pollock realized that the journey toward making a work of art was as important as the work of art itself. Like Pablo Picasso's innovative reinventions of painting and sculpture near the turn of the century via Cubism and constructed sculpture, with influences as disparate as Navaho sand paintings, surrealism, Jungian analysis, and Mexican mural art, Pollock redefined what it was to produce art. His move away from easel painting and conventionality was a liberating signal to the artists of his era and to all that came after. Artists realized that Jackson Pollock's process—the placing of unstretched raw canvas on the floor where it could be attacked from all four sides using artist materials and industrial materials; linear skeins of paint dripped and thrown; drawing, staining, brushing; imagery and non-imagery—essentially took art-making beyond any prior boundary. Abstract expressionism in general expanded and developed the definitions and possibilities that artists had available for the creation of new works of art.\n\nThe other abstract expressionists followed Pollock's breakthrough with new breakthroughs of their own. In a sense the innovations of Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning, Franz Kline, Mark Rothko, Philip Guston, Hans Hofmann, Clyfford Still, Barnett Newman, Ad Reinhardt, Richard Pousette-Dart, Robert Motherwell, Peter Voulkos, and others opened the floodgates to the diversity and scope of all the art that followed them. The new art movements of the 1960s essentially followed the lead of abstract expressionism and in particular the innovations of Pollock, De Kooning, Rothko, Hofmann, Reinhardt, and Newman. The radical Anti-Formalist movements of the 1960s and 1970s including Fluxus, Neo-Dada, Conceptual art, and the feminist art movement can be traced to the innovations of abstract expressionism. Rereadings into abstract art, done by art historians such as Linda Nochlin, Griselda Pollock and Catherine de Zegher critically shows, however, that pioneer women artists who have produced major innovations in modern art had been ignored by the official accounts of its history, but finally began to achieve long overdue recognition in the wake of the abstract expressionist movement of the 1940s and 1950s. Abstract expressionism emerged as a major art movement in New York City during the 1950s and thereafter several leading art galleries began to include the abstract expressionists in exhibitions and as regulars in their rosters. Some of those prominent 'uptown' galleries included: the Charles Egan Gallery, the Sidney Janis Gallery, the Betty Parsons Gallery, the Kootz Gallery, the Tibor de Nagy Gallery, the Stable Gallery, the Leo Castelli Gallery as well as others; and several downtown galleries known at the time as the Tenth Street galleries exhibited many emerging younger artists working in the abstract expressionist vein.\n\nAction painting was a style widespread from the 1940s until the early 1960s, and is closely associated with abstract expressionism (some critics have used the terms action painting and abstract expressionism interchangeably). A comparison is often drawn between the American action painting and the French tachisme.\n\nThe term was coined by the American critic Harold Rosenberg in 1952 and signaled a major shift in the aesthetic perspective of New York School painters and critics. According to Rosenberg the canvas was \"an arena in which to act\". While abstract expressionists such as Jackson Pollock, Franz Kline and Willem de Kooning had long been outspoken in their view of a painting as an arena within which to come to terms with the act of creation, earlier critics sympathetic to their cause, like Clement Greenberg, focused on their works' \"objectness.\" To Greenberg, it was the physicality of the paintings' clotted and oil-caked surfaces that was the key to understanding them as documents of the artists' existential struggle.\nRosenberg's critique shifted the emphasis from the object to the struggle itself, with the finished painting being only the physical manifestation, a kind of residue, of the actual work of art, which was in the act or process of the painting's creation. This spontaneous activity was the \"action\" of the painter, through arm and wrist movement, painterly gestures, brushstrokes, thrown paint, splashed, stained, scumbled and dripped. The painter would sometimes let the paint drip onto the canvas, while rhythmically dancing, or even standing in the canvas, sometimes letting the paint fall according to the subconscious mind, thus letting the unconscious part of the psyche assert and express itself. All this, however, is difficult to explain or interpret because it is a supposed unconscious manifestation of the act of pure creation.\n\nIn practice, the term abstract expressionism is applied to any number of artists working (mostly) in New York who had quite different styles, and even applied to work which is not especially abstract nor expressionist. Pollock's energetic action paintings, with their \"busy\" feel, are different both technically and aesthetically, to the violent and grotesque \"Women\" series of Willem de Kooning. \"Woman V\" is one of a series of six paintings made by de Kooning between 1950 and 1953 that depict a three-quarter-length female figure. He began the first of these paintings, \"Woman I,\" collection: The Museum of Modern Art, New York City, in June 1950, repeatedly changing and painting out the image until January or February 1952, when the painting was abandoned unfinished. The art historian Meyer Schapiro saw the painting in de Kooning's studio soon afterwards and encouraged the artist to persist. De Kooning's response was to begin three other paintings on the same theme; \"Woman II\", collection: The Museum of Modern Art, New York City, \"Woman III,\" Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art, \"Woman IV,\" Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, Kansas City, Missouri. During the summer of 1952, spent at East Hampton, de Kooning further explored the theme through drawings and pastels. He may have finished work on \"Woman I\" by the end of June, or possibly as late as November 1952, and probably the other three women pictures were concluded at much the same time. The \"Woman series\" are decidedly figurative paintings.\n\nAnother important artist is Franz Kline. As with Jackson Pollock and other abstract expressionists, Kline was labelled an \"action painter because of his seemingly spontaneous and intense style, focusing less, or not at all, on figures or imagery, but on the actual brush strokes and use of canvas; as demonstrated by his painting \"Number 2\" (1954). \nAutomatic writing was an important vehicle for action painters Franz Kline (in his black and white paintings), Jackson Pollock, Mark Tobey and Cy Twombly, who used gesture, surface, and line to create calligraphic, linear symbols and skeins that resemble language, and resonate as powerful manifestations from the Collective unconscious. Robert Motherwell in his \"Elegy to the Spanish Republic\" series also painted powerful black and white paintings using gesture, surface and symbol evoking powerful emotional charges.\n\nMeanwhile, other action painters, notably Willem de Kooning, Arshile Gorky, Norman Bluhm, Joan Mitchell, and James Brooks, used imagery via either abstract landscape or as expressionistic visions of the figure to articulate their highly personal and powerful evocations. James Brooks' paintings were particularly poetic and highly prescient in relationship to Lyrical Abstraction that became prominent in the late 1960s and the 1970s.\n\nClyfford Still, Barnett Newman, Adolph Gottlieb and the serenely shimmering blocks of color in Mark Rothko's work (which is not what would usually be called expressionist and which Rothko denied was abstract), are classified as abstract expressionists, albeit from what Clement Greenberg termed the Color field direction of abstract expressionism. Both Hans Hofmann and Robert Motherwell can be comfortably described as practitioners of action painting and Color field painting. In the 1940s Richard Pousette-Dart's tightly constructed imagery often depended upon themes of mythology and mysticism; as did the paintings of Adolph Gottlieb, and Jackson Pollock in that decade as well.\n\nColor Field painting initially referred to a particular type of abstract expressionism, especially the work of Mark Rothko, Clyfford Still, Barnett Newman, Robert Motherwell, Adolph Gottlieb, Ad Reinhardt and several series of paintings by Joan Miró. Art critic Clement Greenberg perceived Color Field painting as related to but different from Action painting. The Color Field painters sought to rid their art of superfluous rhetoric. Artists like Robert Motherwell, Clyfford Still, Mark Rothko, Adolph Gottlieb, Hans Hofmann, Helen Frankenthaler, Sam Francis, Mark Tobey, and especially Ad Reinhardt and Barnett Newman, whose masterpiece \"Vir heroicus sublimis\" is in the collection of MoMA, used greatly reduced references to nature, and they painted with a highly articulated and psychological use of color. In general these artists eliminated recognizable imagery, in the case of Rothko and Gottlieb sometimes using symbol and sign as replacement of imagery. Certain artists quoted references to past or present art, but in general color field painting presents abstraction as an end in itself. In pursuing this direction of modern art, artists wanted to present each painting as one unified, cohesive, monolithic image.\n\nIn distinction to the emotional energy and gestural surface marks of abstract expressionists such as Jackson Pollock and Willem de Kooning, the Color Field painters initially appeared to be cool and austere, effacing the individual mark in favor of large, flat areas of color, which these artists considered to be the essential nature of visual abstraction, along with the actual shape of the canvas, which later in the 1960s Frank Stella in particular achieved in unusual ways with combinations of curved and straight edges. However Color Field painting has proven to be both sensual and deeply expressive albeit in a different way from gestural abstract expressionism.\n\nAlthough abstract expressionism spread quickly throughout the United States, the major centers of this style were New York City and California, especially in the New York School, and the San Francisco Bay area. Abstract expressionist paintings share certain characteristics, including the use of large canvases, an \"all-over\" approach, in which the whole canvas is treated with equal importance (as opposed to the center being of more interest than the edges). The canvas as the \"arena\" became a credo of Action painting, while the \"integrity of the picture plane\" became a credo of the Color field painters. Younger artists began exhibiting their abstract expressionist related paintings during the 1950s as well including Alfred Leslie, Sam Francis, Joan Mitchell, Helen Frankenthaler, Cy Twombly, Milton Resnick, Michael Goldberg, Norman Bluhm, Grace Hartigan, Friedel Dzubas, and Robert Goodnough among others.\nAlthough Pollock is closely associated with Action Painting because of his style, technique, and his painterly \"touch\" and his physical application of paint, art critics have likened Pollock to both Action painting and color field painting. Another critical view advanced by Clement Greenberg connects Pollock's allover canvasses to the large-scale Water Lilies of Claude Monet done during the 1920s. Greenberg, art critic Michael Fried, and others have observed that the overall feeling in Pollock's most famous works – his \"drip\" paintings – read as vast fields of built-up linear elements often reading as vast complexes of similar valued paint skeins that read as all over fields of color and drawing, and are related to the mural-sized late Monets that are constructed of many passages of close valued brushed and scumbled marks that also read as close valued fields of color and drawing that Monet used in building his picture surfaces. Pollock's use of all-over composition lend a philosophical and a physical connection to the way the color field painters like Newman, Rothko and Still construct their unbroken and in Still's case broken surfaces. In several paintings that Pollock painted after his classic \"drip\" painting period of 1947–1950, he used the technique of staining fluid oil paint and house paint into raw canvas. During 1951 he produced a series of semi-figurative black stain paintings, and in 1952 he produced stain paintings using color. In his November 1952 exhibition at the Sidney Janis Gallery in New York City Pollock showed \"Number 12, 1952\", a large, masterful stain painting that resembles a brightly colored stained landscape (with an overlay of broadly dripped dark paint); the painting was acquired from the exhibition by Nelson Rockefeller for his personal collection. In 1960 the painting was severely damaged by fire in the Governors Mansion in Albany that also severely damaged an Arshile Gorky painting and several other works in the Rockefeller collection. However, by 1999 it had been restored and was installed in Albany Mall.\n\nWhile Arshile Gorky is considered to be one of the founding fathers of abstract expressionism and a surrealist, he was also one of the first painters of the New York School who used the technique of \"staining.\" Gorky created broad fields of vivid, open, unbroken color that he used in many of his paintings as \"grounds.\" In Gorky's most effective and accomplished paintings between the years 1941–1948, he consistently used intense stained fields of color, often letting the paint run and drip, under and around his familiar lexicon of organic and biomorphic shapes and delicate lines. Another abstract expressionist whose works in the 1940s call to mind the stain paintings of the 1960s and the 1970s is James Brooks. Brooks regularly used stain as a technique in his paintings from the late 1940s. Brooks began diluting his oil paint in order to have fluid colors with which to pour and drip and stain into the mostly raw canvas that he used. These works often combined calligraphy and abstract shapes. During the final three decades of his career, Sam Francis' style of large-scale bright abstract expressionism was closely associated with Color field painting. His paintings straddled both camps within the abstract expressionist rubric, Action painting and Color Field painting.\n\nHaving seen Jackson Pollock's 1951 paintings of thinned black oil paint stained into raw canvas, Helen Frankenthaler began to produce \"stain paintings\" in varied oil colors on raw canvas in 1952. Her most famous painting from that period is \"Mountains and Sea\". She is one of the originators of the Color Field movement that emerged in the late 1950s. Frankenthaler also studied with Hans Hofmann.\n\nHofmann's paintings are a symphony of color as seen in \"The Gate,\" 1959–1960. Hofmann was renowned not only as an artist but also as a teacher of art, both in his native Germany and later in the U.S. Hans Hofmann, who came to the United States from Germany in the early 1930s, brought with him the legacy of Modernism. Hofmann was a young artist working in Paris who painted there before World War I. Hofmann worked in Paris with Robert Delaunay, and he knew firsthand the innovative work of both Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse. Matisse's work had an enormous influence on him, and on his understanding of the expressive language of color and the potentiality of abstraction. Hofmann was one of the first theorists of color field painting, and his theories were influential to artists and to critics, particularly to Clement Greenberg, as well as to others during the 1930s and 1940s. In 1953 Morris Louis and Kenneth Noland were both profoundly influenced by Helen Frankenthaler's stain paintings after visiting her studio in New York City. Returning to Washington, DC., they began to produce the major works that created the \"color field movement\" in the late 1950s.\n\nIn 1972 then Metropolitan Museum of Art curator Henry Geldzahler said:\n\nIn abstract painting during the 1950s and 1960s, several new directions, like the Hard-edge painting exemplified by John McLaughlin, emerged. Meanwhile, as a reaction against the subjectivism of abstract expressionism, other forms of Geometric abstraction began to appear in artist studios and in radical avant-garde circles. Clement Greenberg became the voice of \"Post-painterly abstraction;\" by curating an influential exhibition of new painting that toured important art museums throughout the United States in 1964. Color field painting, Hard-edge painting and Lyrical Abstraction emerged as radical new directions.\n\nSince the mid-1970s it has been argued by revisionist historians that the style attracted the attention, in the early 1950s, of the CIA, who saw it as representative of the USA as a haven of free thought and free markets, as well as a challenge to both the socialist realist styles prevalent in communist nations and the dominance of the European art markets. The book by Frances Stonor Saunders, \"The Cultural Cold War—The CIA and the World of Arts and Letters\", (published in the UK as \"Who Paid the Piper?: CIA and the Cultural Cold War\") details how the CIA financed and organized the promotion of American abstract expressionists as part of cultural imperialism via the Congress for Cultural Freedom from 1950 to 1967. Notably Robert Motherwell's series \"Elegy to the Spanish Republic\" addressed some of those political issues. Tom Braden, founding chief of the CIA's International Organizations Division (IOD) and ex-executive secretary of the Museum of Modern Art said in an interview, \"I think it was the most important division that the agency had, and I think that it played an enormous role in the Cold War.\"\n\nAgainst this revisionist tradition, an essay by Michael Kimmelman, chief art critic of \"The New York Times\", called \"Revisiting the Revisionists: The Modern, Its Critics and the Cold War\", argues that much of this information (as well as the revisionists' interpretation of it) concerning what was happening on the American art scene during the 1940s and 50s is flatly false, or at best (contrary to the revisionists' avowed historiographic principles) decontextualized. Other books on the subject include \"Art in the Cold War\" by Christine Lindey, which also describes the art of the Soviet Union at the same time; and \"Pollock and After\" edited by Francis Frascina, which reprinted the Kimmelman article.\n\nCanadian painter Jean-Paul Riopelle (1923–2002), a member of the Montreal-based surrealist-inspired group Les Automatistes, helped introduce a related style of abstract impressionism to the Parisian art world from 1949. Michel Tapié's groundbreaking book, \"Un Art Autre\" (1952), was also enormously influential in this regard. Tapié was also a curator and exhibition organizer who promoted the works of Pollock and Hans Hofmann in Europe. By the 1960s, the movement's initial affect had been assimilated, yet its methods and proponents remained highly influential in art, affecting profoundly the work of many artists who followed. Abstract expressionism preceded Tachisme, Color Field painting, Lyrical Abstraction, Fluxus, Pop Art, Minimalism, Postminimalism, Neo-expressionism, and the other movements of the sixties and seventies and it influenced all those later movements that evolved. Movements which were direct responses to, and rebellions against abstract expressionism began with Hard-edge painting (Frank Stella, Robert Indiana and others) and Pop artists, notably Andy Warhol, Claes Oldenburg and Roy Lichtenstein who achieved prominence in the US, accompanied by Richard Hamilton in Britain. Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns in the US formed a bridge between abstract expressionism and Pop art. Minimalism was exemplified by artists such as Donald Judd, Robert Mangold and Agnes Martin.\n\nHowever, many painters, such as Jules Olitski, Joan Mitchell and Antoni Tàpies continued to work in the abstract expressionist style for many years, extending and expanding its visual and philosophical implications, as many abstract artists continue to do today, in styles described as Lyrical Abstraction, Neo-expressionist and others.\n\nIn the years after World War II, a group of New York artists started one of the first true schools of artists in America, bringing about a new era in American artwork: abstract expressionism. This led to the American art boom that brought about styles such as Pop Art. This also helped to make New York into a cultural and artistic hub.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13816603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13816603", "title": "Adalbert Bezzenberger", "text": "Adalbert Bezzenberger\n\nAdalbert Bezzenberger (14 April 1851 – 31 October 1922) was a German philologist. He was born at Kassel and died at Königsberg. He is considered to be the founder of Baltic philology.\n\nHe studied the Indo-Germanic languages at the universities of Göttingen and Munich. In 1874 he became lecturer at Göttingen and in 1879 professor of Sanskrit at the University of Königsberg. From 1890-91 he was rector of this university.\nHis principal works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "18221946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18221946", "title": "Agricultural law", "text": "Agricultural law\n\nAgricultural law, sometimes referred to as Ag Law, deals with such legal issues as agricultural infrastructure, seed, water, fertilizer, pesticide use, agricultural finance, agricultural labour, agricultural marketing, agricultural insurance, farming rights, land tenure and tenancy system and law on Agricultural processing and rural industry. With implementation of modern technologies, issues including credit, intellectual property, trade and commerce related to agricultural products are dealt within the sphere of this law.\n\nSimply put, agricultural law is the study of the special laws and regulations that apply to the production and sale of agricultural products. \"Agricultural exceptionalism,\" i.e., the use of legal exceptions to protect the agricultural industry, is pervasive, worldwide. American law schools and legal scholars first recognized agricultural law as a discipline in the 1940s when law schools at Yale, Harvard, Texas, and Iowa explored and initiated agricultural law courses. These early efforts were short-lived, however, and agricultural law as a distinct discipline did not resurface for three decades. In 1979, a scholarly journal, The Agricultural Law Journal was initiated. In 1980, the American Agricultural Law Association was formed and an advanced law degree program, the LL.M. Program in Agricultural Law was founded at the University of Arkansas School of Law. In 1981, a fifteen volume Agricultural Law Treatise was published and in 1985, the first law school casebook, Agricultural Law: Cases and Materials was published by West Publishing.\n\nIn recent years, agricultural law studies have expanded to incorporate a wider consideration of the impact of agricultural production, including issues of environmental law, sustainability, animal welfare, and food law and policy. Reflecting this expanded perspective, in 2009, the LL.M. Program in Agricultural Law at Arkansas changed its name to the LL.M Program in Agricultural and Food Law. In 2010, the second law school textbook was published with the title, Food, Farming & Sustainability: Readings in Agricultural Law. And, in 2012, the American Association of Law Schools changed the name of its Agricultural Law section to Agricultural and Food Law. The emerging discipline of food law & policy traces its roots to the discipline of agricultural law as well as tradition food and drug law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6440321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6440321", "title": "American Name Society", "text": "American Name Society\n\nThe American Name Society (ANS) is a non-profit organization founded in 1951 to promote onomastics, the study of names and naming practices, both in the United States and abroad. The Society investigates cultural insights, settlement history, and linguistic characteristics revealed in names.\n\nThe ANS runs an annual conference for name scholars and enthusiasts, and is the largest scholarly society dedicated to \"the investigation of names and how they develop\". Since 1952, the ANS has produced the journal \"Names\", which publishes articles on names. The American Dialect Society was the parent organization of ANS. It has also been associated with the Modern Language Association.\n\nIn the early 1950s, members of the American Dialect Society felt that there ought to be another organization focused on the function of proper nouns. On December 29, 1951, in Detroit, a group of academics voted to create the American Name Society, which would focus on onomastics and publish a quarterly journal with content written by society members. The founders appointed a Sponsoring Committee with 29 members and elected a president, Elsdon C. Smith. The first meeting was held on December 27, 1952, in Boston. The ANS has had a broad scope since its inception, and attracts specialists from a variety of fields.\n\nIn March 1953, the ANS began publishing \"Names\", \"a journal of onomastics.\" The first volume of \"Names\", the journal published by ANS, was published in March 1953, edited by Erwin Gudde. George R. Stewart, a founding member of the ANS, described his vision for using \"Names\" to define the field of onomastics. Subscribers to \"Names\" receive membership to the ANS.\n\nThe Emerging Scholar award recognizes names researchers in the early stages of their academic or professional careers. The awardee receives a cash prize and mentoring by a senior onomastics scholar who will assist the awardee in preparing his/her paper for submission and possible publication in NAMES: A Journal of Onomastics.\n\nThe Best Article in Names: A Journal of Onomastics Award is given to only one article per year according to the significance of the article and its relevance to the science of onomastics. The award committee of three reviewers operates independently of the editors.\n\nSince 2004, the ANS has declared a Name of the Year. Each year, the public can nominate a name by contacting the Name of the Year election coordinator with justification for the name's inclusion. ANS members can also nominate names at the annual meeting. Nominated names are judged on three criteria: linguistic innovation, potential to impact language use, and ability to capture national attention. Since 2008, the ANS has voted on the top personal name, place name, trade name and fictional name at its annual conference.\nThe American Name Society is allied with the Modern Language Association (MLA).\n\nThe American Name Society is a member of a group of sister societies that meet concurrently with the Linguistic Society of America:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11569584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11569584", "title": "Becoming Jane Austen", "text": "Becoming Jane Austen\n\nBecoming Jane Austen was researched and written by the Jane Austen scholar Jon Hunter Spence. It chronicles a demi-biographical version of Austen's early biography based on Spence's interpretation of the novel \"Pride and Prejudice\" as possibly being modeled on Austen's real life, although Austen herself does not make this claim for her novel.\n\n\"Becoming Jane Austen\" was first published in hardcover by Hambledon Continuum in 2003. It chronicles the early life of Jane Austen, the encounters and the developing relationship between Austen and Tom Lefroy, based on letters sent by Jane Austen to her sister Cassandra. The book was used as the basis for the film \"Becoming Jane\", which was released in January 2007 (Sydney). Jon Spence was a historical consultant for the film.\n\nA review of the book by the Jane Austen Society of North America states that, \"Jon Spence’s \"Becoming Jane Austen\" is one of the best half-dozen books published on Austen in the last quarter century, at least. It is a remarkably learned book written in a remarkably lucid style and a joy to read. The research is so substantial, wide-ranging, and detailed that any conjecture Spence builds on it has the feel of bedrock itself. His interpretation of Jane Austen’s character and personality as well as of her fiction impresses the reader with his long and intimate acquaintance with the writer and her works.\"\n\nA paperback edition of the book was published by Continuum on 14 June 2007\n\nThe Austen-Lefroy relationship was also used as the basis for \"Jane and Tom: The Real Pride and Prejudice\", a radio play by Elizabeth Lewis. It was first broadcast on 1 June 2007, starring Jasmine Hyde as Austen and Andrew Scott as Lefroy, along with Penny Downie as Mrs Austen, Jane Whittenshaw as Mrs Lefroy, Rachel Atkins as Anne Lefroy, Lynne Seamore as Cassandra Austen, Keiron Self as John Warren, and Manon Edwards as Ellen, and directed by Celia De Wolff. \n"}
{"id": "47840653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47840653", "title": "Bisakol languages", "text": "Bisakol languages\n\nBisakol (portmanteau of Bisaya and Bikol) refers to the dialect continuum in the Central Philippine language family, between Visayan languages and Bikol languages. They are usually classified by linguists as Visayan languages with a great deal of Bikol influence. \n\nThese languages are spoken in the Bicol Region and include Sorsoganon, a group of Warayan speech varieties of Sorsogon, namely Central Sorsogon (Masbate Sorsogon) and Southern Sorsogon (Waray Sorsogon). Distinct Bisakol dialect is spoken in the municipalities in Southern Sorsogon. They are the municipalities of Matnog, Gubat, Bulan, Irosin, Sta. Magdalena, Barcelona and Bulusan. These Bisakol languages are closely related to the Waray spoken in Northern Samar and especially the island of Maripipi in Biliran.\n\nMasbateño of Masbate is closer to the languages of Panay, Capiznon and Hiligaynon. It still has had Bicolano influence since it is in the Bicol Region politically and geographically. Despite its name, Masbate Sorsogon is closer to Waray than to Masbatenyo, but this coast of Sorsogon Bay where Masbate Sorsogon is spoken has had a lot of contact with Masbate Island.\n\nRomblomanon too is also considered as a Far Variant of Bisakol due to its proximity with the Islands of Panay & Masbate.\n\nOn the linguistic map of the region, Masbate Sorsogon is 101, Masbatenyo is 102 and Waray Sorsogon is 147. \nEthnologue map of Central Philippines\n"}
{"id": "3652290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3652290", "title": "Block quotation", "text": "Block quotation\n\nA block quotation (also known as a long quotation or extract) is a quotation in a written document that is set off from the main text as a paragraph, or block of text, and typically distinguished visually using indentation and a different typeface or smaller size font. This is in contrast to setting it off with quotation marks in a \"run-in quote\". Block quotations are used for long quotations. \"The Chicago Manual of Style\" recommends using a block quotation when extracted text is 100 words or more, or approximately six to eight lines in a typical manuscript.\n\nIn the first centuries of typesetting, quotations were distinguished merely by indicating the speaker, and this can still be seen on some editions of the Bible. During the Renaissance, quotations were distinguished by setting in a typeface contrasting with the main body text (often Italic type with roman, or the other way round). Block quotations were set this way at full size and full measure.\n\nQuotation marks were first cut in type during the middle of the sixteenth century, and were used copiously by some printers by the seventeenth. In Baroque and Romantic-period books, they could be repeated at the beginning of every line of a long quotation. When this practice was abandoned, the empty margin remained, leaving an indented block quotation.\n\nApart from quotation marks not being used to enclose block quotations, there are no hard-and-fast rules for the exact formatting of block quotations. To a large extent the specific format may be dictated by the method of publication (e.g. handwritten text, typewritten pages, or electronic publishing) as well as the typeface being used.\n\nFor writers and editors, \"The Chicago Manual of Style\" (8th edition, 2007) recommends using a block quotation when cited text is five lines or longer.\nOther sources set the threshold at four or five lines.\nThe block quotation may also be used to distinguish shorter citations from original text, though strictly speaking this does not follow APA or MLA style guidelines. Use of the block quotation for shorter passages is a stylistic choice that may or may not be acceptable depending on the situation.\n\nSome guidelines suggest an indentation of five, ten, or fifteen spaces. However, five spaces in a proportional font may be much narrower than in a typewriter font of the same point size. In addition, setting an indent based on an exact number of spaces may not be technically possible in a given word processing or electronic publishing application. In these situations, a measurement of distance rather than a number of spaces may be prescribed instead (for example, a to 1 in or 1 to 2 cm indent). Some writers indent block quotations from the right margin as well. Block quotations are generally set off from the text that precedes and follows them by also adding extra space above and below the quotation and setting the text in smaller type. Barring specific requirements, the format of the block quotation will ultimately be determined by aesthetics, making the quotation pleasing to the eye, easy to read, and appropriate for the particular writing task.\n\nIn typesetting, block quotations can be distinguished from the surrounding text by variation in typeface (often italic vs. roman), type size, or by indentation. Often combinations of these methods are used, but are not necessary. Block quotations are also visually distinguished from preceding and following main text blocks by a white line or half-line space. For example:\n\n"}
{"id": "44854356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44854356", "title": "Busts of Cardinals Agostino and Pietro Valier (Bernini)", "text": "Busts of Cardinals Agostino and Pietro Valier (Bernini)\n\nThe Busts of Cardinals Agostino and Pietro Valier are two portrait sculptures executed by the Italian artists Gianlorenzo Bernini and his studio. They were commissioned in 1627. It is likely that the bust of Pietro was done largely by Andrea Bolgi following Bernini's design. The more lively portrait of Agostino is probably Bernini's design and execution. \n\nThe two sculptures remain in the Seminary in Venice, for which they were originally built. \n\n"}
{"id": "40183147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40183147", "title": "Catholic Biblical Association", "text": "Catholic Biblical Association\n\nThe Catholic Biblical Association of America (CBA) is an American learned society dedicated to the academic study of the Bible. It was founded in Washington, D.C., in 1936 and began with fifty charter members. Membership now numbers more than 1,200. Those who hold an advanced degree in biblical studies are eligible to be elected to membership, irrespective of any religious affiliation. Since 1939, the CBA has published the \"Catholic Biblical Quarterly\", a peer-reviewed, academic journal. Other publications include \"Old Testament Abstracts\". The current President of the CBA is Barbara E. Reid.\n\nIn 2012, the USCCB \"announced a plan to revise the New Testament of the New American Bible Revised Edition so a single version can be used for individual prayer, catechesis and liturgy.\" The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) approved the initiation of a revision of the New American Bible New Testament (NAB NT) and entrusted the work to the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine (CCD). After they developed a plan and budget for the revision project, work began in 2013 with the creation of an editorial board made up of five people from the Catholic Biblical Association (CBA), to which additional members of the revision team were added in 2014. Once approved by the bishops and the Vatican, the revised NAB will serve as a single translation for use in the liturgy, for study, and for catechism. The work is expected to be completed around the year 2025.\n"}
{"id": "7446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7446", "title": "Chalcolithic", "text": "Chalcolithic\n\nThe Chalcolithic (), a name derived from the \"khalkós\", \"copper\" and \"líthos\", \"stone\" or Copper Age, also known as the Eneolithic or Æneolithic (from Latin \"aeneus\" \"of copper\") is an archaeological period that is usually considered to be part of the broader Neolithic (although it was originally defined as a transition between the Neolithic and the Bronze Age). In the context of Eastern European archaeology, the term Eneolithic is often preferred to Chalcolithic and other alternatives.\n\nThe Chalcolithic was a period in which copper is predominant in metalworking technology. Hence it was the period before it was discovered that adding tin to copper formed bronze (a harder and stronger metal). The archaeological site of Belovode, on Rudnik mountain in Serbia has the oldest securely-dated evidence of copper smelting, from 7000 BP (5000 BCE).\n\nThe Copper Age in the Ancient Near East began in the late 5th millennium BCE and lasted for about a millennium before it gave rise to the Early Bronze Age. \nThe transition from the European Copper Age to Bronze Age Europe occurs about the same time, between the late 5th and the late 3rd millennia BCE.\n\nThe multiple names result from multiple recognitions of the period. Originally, the term Bronze Age meant that either copper or bronze was being used as the chief hard substance for the manufacture of tools and weapons.\n\nIn 1881, John Evans recognized that use of copper often preceded the use of bronze, and distinguished between a \"transitional Copper Age\" and the \"Bronze Age proper\". He did not include the transitional period in the three-age system of Early, Middle and Late Bronze Age, but placed it outside the tripartite system, at its beginning. He did not, however, present it as a fourth age but chose to retain the traditional tripartite system.\n\nIn 1884, Gaetano Chierici, perhaps following the lead of Evans, renamed it in Italian as the \"eneo-litica\", or \"bronze–stone\" transition. The phrase was never intended to mean that the period was the only one in which both bronze and stone were used. The Copper Age features the use of copper, excluding bronze; moreover, stone continued to be used throughout both the Bronze Age and the Iron Age. The part \"-litica\" simply names the Stone Age as the point from which the transition began and is not another \"-lithic\" age.\n\nSubsequently, British scholars used either Evans's \"Copper Age\" or the term \"Eneolithic\" (or Æneolithic), a translation of Chierici's \"eneo-litica\". After several years, a number of complaints appeared in the literature that \"Eneolithic\" seemed to the untrained eye to be produced from \"e-neolithic\", \"outside the Neolithic\", clearly not a definitive characterization of the Copper Age. Around 1900, many writers began to substitute \"Chalcolithic\" for Eneolithic, to avoid the false segmentation. It was then that the misunderstanding began among those who did not know Italian. The Chalcolithic was seen as a new \"-lithic\" age, a part of the Stone Age in which copper was used, which may appear paradoxical. Today, \"Copper Age\", \"Eneolithic\" and \"Chalcolithic\" are used synonymously to mean Evans's original definition of Copper Age. The literature of European archaeology in general avoids the use of \"Chalcolithic\" (the term \"Copper Age\" is preferred), whereas Middle Eastern archaeologists regularly use it. \"Chalcolithic\" is not generally used by British prehistorians, who disagree as to whether it applies in the British context.\nThe emergence of metallurgy may have occurred first in the Fertile Crescent. The earliest use of lead is documented here from the late Neolithic settlement of Yarim Tepe in Iraq,\n\"The earliest lead (Pb) finds in the ancient Near East are a 6th millennium BC bangle from Yarim Tepe in northern Iraq and a slightly later conical lead piece from Halaf period Arpachiyah, near Mosul. As native lead is extremely rare, such artifacts raise the possibility that lead smelting may have begun even before copper smelting.\"\nCopper smelting is also documented at this site at about the same time period (soon after 6000 BC), although the use of lead seems to precede copper smelting. Early metallurgy is also documented at the nearby site of Tell Maghzaliyah, which seems to be dated even earlier, and completely lacks pottery.\nAnalysis of stone tool assemblages from sites on the Tehran Plain, in Iran, has illustrated the effects of the introduction of copper working technologies on the in-place systems of lithic craft specialists and raw materials. Networks of exchange and specialized processing and production that had evolved during the Neolithic seem to have collapsed by the Middle Chalcolithic ( 4500–3500 BCE) and been replaced by the use of local materials by a primarily household-based production of stone tools.\nThe Timna Valley contains evidence of copper mining in 7000–5000 BCE. The process of transition from Neolithic to Chalcolithic in the Middle East is characterized in archaeological stone tool assemblages by a decline in high quality raw material procurement and use. This dramatic shift is seen throughout the region, including the Tehran Plain, Iran. Here, analysis of six archaeological sites determined a marked downward trend in not only material quality, but also in aesthetic variation in the lithic artefacts. Fazeli et al. use these results as evidence of the loss of craft specialisation caused by increased use of copper tools.\n\nAn archaeological site in Serbia contains the oldest securely dated evidence of coppermaking from 7,500 years ago. The find in June 2010 extends the known record of copper smelting by about 800 years, and suggests that copper smelting may have been invented in separate parts of Asia and Europe at that time rather than spreading from a single source.\n\nIn Serbia, a copper axe was found at Prokuplje, which indicates use of metal in Europe by 7,500 years ago (5500 BCE), many years earlier than previously believed. Knowledge of the use of copper was far more widespread than the metal itself. \nThe European Battle Axe culture used stone axes modeled on copper axes, even with imitation \"mold marks\" carved in the stone. Ötzi the Iceman, who was found in the Ötztal Alps in 1991 and whose remains were dated to about 3300 BCE, was found with a Mondsee copper axe.\n\nExamples of Chalcolithic cultures in Europe include Vila Nova de São Pedro and Los Millares on the Iberian Peninsula. Pottery of the Beaker people has been found at both sites, dating to several centuries after copper-working began there. The Beaker culture appears to have spread copper and bronze technologies in Europe, along with Indo-European languages. In Britain, copper was used between the 25th and 22nd centuries BCE, but some archaeologists do not recognise a British Chalcolithic because production and use was on a small scale.\n\nAccording to Parpola (2005), ceramic similarities between the Indus Civilization, southern Turkmenistan, and northern Iran during 4300–3300 BCE of the Chalcolithic period suggest considerable mobility and trade.\nThe term \"Chalcolithic\" has also been used in the context of the South Asian Stone Age.\nIn Bhirrana, the earliest Indus civilization site, copper bangles and arrowheads were found. The inhabitants of Mehrgarh in present-day Pakistan fashioned tools with local copper ore between 7000–3300 BCE.\nAt the Nausharo site dated to 4500 years ago, a pottery workshop in province of Balochistan, Pakistan, were unearthed 12 blades or blade fragments. These blades are long and and relatively thin. Archaeological experiments show that these blades were made with a copper indenter and functioned as a potter's tool to trim and shape unfired pottery. Petrographic analysis indicates local pottery manufacturing, but also reveals that existence of a few exotic black-slipped pottery items from the Indus Valley.\n\nThere was an independent invention of copper and bronze smelting first by Andean civilizations in South America extended later by sea commerce to the Mesoamerican civilization in West Mexico (see Metallurgy in pre-Columbian America and Metallurgy in pre-Columbian Mesoamerica).\n\nThe term \"Chalcolithic\" is also applied to American civilizations that already used copper and copper alloys thousands of years before the European migration. Besides cultures in the Andes and Mesoamerica, the Old Copper Complex, centered in the Upper Great Lakes region—present-day Michigan and Wisconsin in the United States—mined and fabricated copper as tools, weapons, and personal ornaments. The evidence of smelting or alloying that has been found is subject to some dispute and a common assumption by archaeologists is that objects were cold-worked into shape. Artifacts from some of these sites have been dated to 4000–1000 BCE, making them some of the oldest Chalcolithic sites in the world. Furthermore, some archaeologists find artifactual and structural evidence of casting by Hopewellian and Mississippian peoples to be demonstrated in the archaeological record.\n\nIn the 5th millennium BCE copper artifacts start to appear in East Asia, such as in the Jiangzhai and Hongshan cultures, but those metal artifacts were not widely used.\n\nIn the region of the Aïr Mountains in Niger, we have the development of independent copper smelting between 3000 and 2500 BCE. The process was not in a developed state, indicating smelting was not foreign. It became mature about 1500 BCE.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37070564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37070564", "title": "Classic monolingual word-sense disambiguation", "text": "Classic monolingual word-sense disambiguation\n\nClassic monolingual Word Sense Disambiguation evaluation tasks uses WordNet as its sense inventory and is largely based on supervised / semi-supervised classification with the manually sense annotated corpora:\n\nDuring the first Senseval workshop the HECTOR sense inventory was adopted. The reason for adopting a previously unknown sense inventory was mainly to avoid the use of popular fine-grained word senses (such as WordNet), which could make the experiments unfair or biased. However, given the lack of coverage of such inventories, since the second Senseval workshop the WordNet sense inventory has been adopted.\nWSD exercises require a dictionary, to specify the word senses which are to be disambiguated, and a corpus of language data to be disambiguated. WordNet is the most popular example of sense inventory. The reason for adopting the HECTOR database during Senseval-1 was that the WordNet inventory was already publicly available.\n\nComparison of methods can be divided in 2 groups by amount of words to test. The difference consists in the amount of analysis and processing:\n\nIt is assumed that the former one is more realistic evaluation, although with very laborious testing of results. Initially only the latter was used in evaluation but later the former was included. \n\nLexical sample organizers had to choose samples on which the systems were to be tested. A criticism of earlier forays into lexical-sample WSD evaluation is that the lexical sample had been chosen according to the whim of the experimenter (or, to coincide with earlier experimenters' selections). For English Senseval, a sampling frame was devised in which words were classified according to their frequency (in the BNC) and their polysemy level (in WordNet). Also, inclusion POS-tagging problem was a matter of discussion and it was decided that samples should be words with known part of speech and some indeterminants (for ex. 15 noun tasks, 13 verb tasks, 8 adjectives, and 5 indeterminates).\n\nFor comparison purposes, known, yet simple, algorithms named baselines are used. These include different variants of Lesk algorithm or most frequent sense algorithm.\n\nDuring the evaluation of WSD systems two main performance measures are used:\nIf a system makes an assignment for every word, then precision and recall are the same, and can be called accuracy. This model has been extended to take into account systems that return a set of senses with weights for each occurrence.\n\n"}
{"id": "7873488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7873488", "title": "Clear Body, Clear Mind", "text": "Clear Body, Clear Mind\n\nClear Body, Clear Mind is a book published in 1990 by the Church of Scientology's publishing house Bridge Publications. It is credited to L. Ron Hubbard who died four years earlier, and is largely a compilation of material he wrote in the 1960s. It is one of the canonical texts of Scientology and mainly deals with the Purification Rundown (\"Purif\"). Scientologists believe this \"detoxification\" program, created by Hubbard, has unique medical and spiritual benefits, but has been criticized by medical professionals as \"dangerous\", \"quackery,\" and \"in some cases lethal\".\n\nThe Purif consists of a \"combination of exercise, vitamins, nutrition and sauna use,\" which purportedly \"dislodges drug residues and other toxins from the fatty tissues so that these substances can then be eliminated from the body.\" Scientologists are expected to take the Purif as part of their spiritual progress, and it is also promoted in secular contexts via Scientology-related groups including Narconon, Criminon and Second Chance. It is promoted as a cure for conditions including cancer, AIDS, heart problems, kidney failure, liver disease and obesity. The procedure is viewed as dangerous by many medical professionals, as it calls for saunas and vitamins far in excess of safe levels. Side effects listed by Scientology include dehydration, electrolyte disturbances including hyponatremia (low sodium level) & hypokalemia (low potassium level), and heat-related illnesses. Some families have sued the Church of Scientology, claiming that the Purif was responsible for the death of a relative.\n\n\"Clear Body, Clear Mind\" includes a disclaimer to the effect that the Purification Rundown is not a medical treatment and that it should not be read as making medical claims. However, in their Introduction to the book, David Root M.D. and James Barnes write: \nL. Ron Hubbard's Purification program remains the only proven and safe method for reducing or eliminating chemical residues from the body. It has been used to alleviate the symptoms and concerns of people exposed to radiation. With each year, the importance of this discovery to every man, woman and child on this planet becomes more evident.\n\nHubbard claims to have been the discoverer of the \"acid flashback\" phenomenon, in which LSD is said to lodge itself in tissues and re-enter the bloodstream years later. He claims to have made this discovery \"In the 1970s, working with cases of individuals who had been drug users\". (pg. 23, 1990 hardcover edition)\n\nScientology's official website says of the book: \n\nThe claim of \"Over 250,000\" successes drew censure from the UK's Advertising Standards Authority. The figure was a count of everyone who had completed the program, including people whose \"drug\" exposure was infrequent use of alcoholic drinks or prescription drugs.\n\nA 1995 review of the book at a medical conference described the mega-doses of niacin as inappropriate, especially since they cause the release of histamine, which is counterproductive when dealing with chemical sensitivity.\n\nIn \"All About Radiation\", Hubbard (1957) sets out his idiosyncratic theories of radiation, including the idea that large doses of vitamins could both alleviate and prevent radiation sickness.\n\n\"Purification: An Illustrated Answer To Drugs\" (New Era Publications, 1984. ) is an earlier, illustrated explanation of the Purification Rundown. Another illustrated book, \"Narconon New Life Detoxification Program: the effective purification program by L. Ron Hubbard.\" (Bridge Publications, 1991. ) is listed as based on \"Clear Body, Clear Mind\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "275557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275557", "title": "Cochise", "text": "Cochise\n\nCochise (; Cheis or A-da-tli-chi, in Apache \"K'uu-ch'ish\" \"oak\"; c. 1805 – June 8, 1874) was leader of the \"Chihuicahui\" local group of the Chokonen (\"central\" or \"real\" Chiricahua) and principal chief (or \"nantan\") of the Chokonen band of the Chiricahua Apache. A key war leader during the Apache Wars, he led an uprising against the U.S. government which began in 1861, and persisted until a peace treaty in 1872. Cochise County, Arizona is named after him.\n\nCochise (or \"Cheis\") was one of the most noted Apache leaders (along with Geronimo and Mangas Coloradas) to resist intrusions by European Americans during the 19th century. He was described as a large man (for the time), with a muscular frame, classical features, and long black hair, which he wore in traditional Apache style. He was about six feet tall and weighed about 175 pounds. In his own language, his name \"Cheis\" meant \"having the quality or strength of oak.\"\n\nCochise and the Chokonen-Chiricahua lived in the area that is now the northern region of Sonora, Mexico; New Mexico and Arizona, which they had settled in sometime before the arrival of the European explorers and colonists. As Spain and later Mexico attempted to gain dominion over the Chiricahua lands, the indigenous groups became increasingly resistant. Cycles of warfare developed, which the Apache mostly won. Eventually, the Spanish tried a different approach; they tried to make the Apache dependent (thereby placating them), giving them older firearms and liquor rations issued by the colonial government (this was called the \"Galvez Peace Policy\"). After Mexico gained independence from Spain and took control of this territory, it ended the practice, perhaps lacking the resources (and/or possibly the will) to continue it. The various Chiricahua bands resumed raiding in the 1830s to acquire what they wanted after the Mexicans stopped selling these goods to them.\n\nAs a result, the Mexican government began a series of military operations in order to stop the raiding by the Chiricahua, but they were fought to a standstill by the Apache. Cochise's father was killed in the fighting. Cochise deepened his resolve and the Chiricahua Apache pursued vengeance against the Mexicans. Mexican forces captured Cochise at one point in 1848 during an Apache raid on Fronteras, Sonora, but he was exchanged for nearly a dozen Mexican prisoners.\n\nBeginning with early Spanish colonization around 1600, the Apache in their territory suffered tension and strife with European settlers until the greater part of the area was acquired by the United States in 1850, following the Mexican War. For a time, the two peoples managed peaceful relations. In the late 1850s, Cochise may have supplied firewood for the Butterfield Overland Mail stagecoach station at Apache Pass.\n\nThe tenuous peace did not last, as European-American encroachment into Apache territory continued. In 1861 the Bascom Affair was a catalyst for armed confrontation. An Apache raiding party had driven away a local rancher's cattle and kidnapped his twelve-year-old step-son (Felix Ward, who later became known as Mickey Free). Cochise and his band were mistakenly accused of the incident (which had been carried out by another band, Coyotero Apache). Army officer Lt. George Bascom, invited Cochise to the Army's encampment in the belief that the warrior was responsible for the incident. Cochise maintained his innocence and offered to look into the matter with other Apache groups, but the officer tried to arrest him. Cochise escaped by drawing a knife and slashing his way out of the tent. Cochise may have been shot as he fled.\n\nBascom captured some of Cochise's relatives, who apparently were taken by surprise as Cochise escaped. Cochise eventually also took hostages to use in negotiations to free the Apache Indians. However, the negotiations fell apart, because the arrival of U.S. troop reinforcements led Cochise to believe that the situation was spiraling out of his control. Both sides eventually killed all their remaining hostages. Cochise went on to carry out about 11 years of relentless warfare, reducing much of the Mexican/American settlements in southern Arizona to a burned-out wasteland. Dan Thrapp estimated the total death toll of settlers and Mexican/American travelers may have reached 5,000, but most historians believe it was more likely a few hundred. The mistaken arrest of Cochise by Lt. Bascom is still remembered by the Chiricahua's descendants today, who describe the incident as \"Cut the Tent.\"\n\nCochise joined with his father-in-law Mangas Coloradas (Red Sleeves, \"Kan-da-zis Tlishishen\"), the powerful Chihenne-Chiricahua chief, in a long series of retaliatory skirmishes and raids on the white settlements and ranches. The Battle of Dragoon Springs was one of these engagements. During the raids, many people were killed, but the Apache quite often had the upper hand. The United States was distracted by its own internal conflict of the looming Civil War, and had begun to pull military forces out of the area. It did not have the resources to deal with the Apache. Additionally, the Apaches were highly adapted to living and fighting in the harsh terrain of the southwest. It was many years before the US Army, using tactics conceived by General George Crook and later adopted by General Nelson A. Miles, were able to effectively challenge the Apache warrior on his own lands.\n\nAt Apache Pass in 1862, Cochise and Mangas Coloradas, with around 500 fighters, held their ground against a New Mexico-bound force of California volunteers under General James Henry Carleton until carriage mounted howitzer artillery fire was brought to bear on their positions in the rocks above.\n\nAccording to scout John C. Cremony and historian Dan L. Thrapp, the howitzer fire sent the Apaches into an immediate retreat. The Battle of Apache Pass was one of the rare pitched battles the Apaches fought against the United States Army. Normally, the Apaches' tactics involved guerrilla-style warfare. Capt. Thomas Roberts was persuaded by this conflict that it would be best to find a route around Apache Pass, which he did. Gen. Carleton continued unhindered to New Mexico and subsequently took over as commander of the territory.\n\nIn January 1863, Gen. Joseph R. West, under orders from Gen. Carleton, captured Mangas Coloradas by luring him into a conference under a flag of truce. During what was to be a peaceful parley session, the Americans took Mangas Coloradas prisoner and later murdered him. This fanned the flames of enmity between the encroaching Americans and the Apache. Cochise believed that the Americans had violated the rules of war by capturing and killing Mangas Coloradas during a parley session. Cochise and the Apache continued their raids against American and Mexican settlements and military positions throughout the 1860s.\n\nFollowing various skirmishes, Cochise and his men were gradually driven into Arizona's Dragoon Mountains but used the mountains for cover and as a base from which to continue attacks against white settlements. Cochise evaded capture and continued his raids against white settlements and travelers until 1872. In 1871, General Oliver O. Howard was ordered to find Cochise, and in 1872 Howard was accompanied by his aide 1st Lt Joseph Alton Sladen and Captain Samuel S. Sumner, and they came to Arizona to negotiate a peace treaty with Cochise. Tom Jeffords, the Apache leader's only white friend, was also present and a treaty was successfully negotiated on October 12, 1872. Based on statements by Sumner and descriptions by Sladen, modern historians such as Robert M. Utley believe that Cochise's Spanish interpreter was Geronimo.\n\nAfter the peace treaty, Cochise retired to his new reservation, the short-lived Chiricahua Reservation (1872-1876), with his friend Jeffords as agent. Cochise died of natural causes (probably abdominal cancer) in 1874. He was buried in the rocks above one of his favorite camps in Arizona's Dragoon Mountains, now called the Cochise Stronghold. Only his people and Tom Jeffords knew the exact location of his resting place, and they took the secret to their graves.\n\nMany of Cochise's descendants reside at the Mescalero Apache Reservation, near Ruidoso, New Mexico, as well as the Fort Sill Apache Tribe Chiricahua Warm Springs Apache in Oklahoma.\n\nIt is unknown if a portrait of Cochise exists; a reported portrait of Cochise is actually that of a 1903 Pueblo of Isleta man named Juan Rey Abetia.\n\nHe married Dos-teh-seh (\"Dos-tes-ey\", \"Doh-teh-seh\" – \"Something-at-the-campfire-already-cooked\", b. 1838), the daughter of Mangas Coloradas, the leader of the Warm Springs and Mimbreño local groups of the Chihenne band. Their children were Taza (1842–1876) and Naiche (1856–1919).\n\nThe best-selling novel by Elliott Arnold in 1947 titled \"Blood Brother\" gives a fictionalized account of the latter part of the struggle and friendship between Jeffords and Cochise.\n\nIn 1950, director Delmer Daves turned Arnold's novel into a film re-titled \"Broken Arrow\", featuring James Stewart as Jeffords and Jeff Chandler as Cochise. \"Broken Arrow\" is often credited as the first sound film to show a sympathetic picture of Native Americans and influenced the popular image of Native American people. The tall, handsome, deeply tanned Chandler, a Jewish actor born in Brooklyn, New York, portrayed Cochise as a noble, nearly tragic character forced to fight against the U.S. Army officers who led incursions into Apache territory.\n\nJohn Ford's representation of Cochise in the 1948 film \"Fort Apache\" was also positive to Native Americans, although in that film Cochise spoke Spanish (a language the Apaches had learned from their Mexican enemies). Jeff Chandler again portrayed Cochise in the 1952 film \"The Battle at Apache Pass\". Chandler also played Cochise in Taza, Son of Cochise (1954), with Rock Hudson as his son, Taza The film \"Conquest of Cochise\" released by Columbia Pictures in 1953 and starring John Hodiak as Cochise also showed Cochise as a caring man who wanted peace with whites. \"Broken Arrow\" was a TV Western series that told a fictionalized account of the historical relationship between Jeffords (John Lupton) and Cochise (Michael Ansara); the show was aired on ABC in prime time from 1956 through 1958. Cochise was portrayed by Jeff Morrow in a 1961 episode of \"Bonanza\".\n\n\"Cochise\" is an instrumental piece in the album \"Guitars\", by Mike Oldfield.\n\nAudioslave's debut single \"Cochise\" is named after the chief. In an interview, guitarist Tom Morello said that Cochise was \"the last great American Indian chief to die free and absolutely unconquered. When several members of his family were captured, tortured and hanged by the U.S. Cavalry, Cochise declared war on the entire Southwest... Cochise the avenger, fearless and resolute, attacked everything in his path with an unbridled fury.\"\n\nThe 2008 novel by Melody Groves titled \"Arizona War: A Colton Brothers Saga\" gives a fictionalized account of Cochise's dealings with the main characters, James and Trace Colton, during the early 1860s including the Bascom Affair of 1861 and the New Mexico-bound force of California volunteers under General James Henry Carleton during 1862.\n\nWes Studi portrays Cochise in \"A Million Ways to Die in the West\".\n\nA statue of Cochise is shown as a meeting point between friends Jaime Reyes and Tye Longshadow in the \"Young Justice\" episode \"Beneath.\"\n\nA small lunar crater was named after Cochise, located near the landing site in the Taurus-Littrow Valley, by the astronauts of Apollo 17.\n\nPhoenix-area theme park, Legend City (now defunct), featured a popular animatronic river ride called \"Cochise's Stronghold\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48090546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48090546", "title": "Conservation and restoration of leather objects", "text": "Conservation and restoration of leather objects\n\nThe conservation and restoration of leather objects is the process of investigating causes of deterioration followed by the best practices of cleaning and restoration to ensure the future protection of leather objects for use or display.\n\nLeather is a highly sought after material due to its resistance to tearing, flexing and puncture. It is also a good insulator of heat and prevents the passage of air flow. In order for skins to be turned into leather they must go through the process known as tanning to stabilize the collagen for the duration of the manufacture. However, leather is unique in that it contains more than just the hide itself. It also contains all of the materials used in the manufacturing process which must be known for the proper conservation and preservation of leather objects.\n\nIn Prehistoric times, the use of skins or leather in the early history of man goes well beyond food to include clothing, shelter and other purposes. The first use of animal skins is attributed to \"Australopithecus habilis\" who is noted as roaming East Africa some two million years ago and possessed a diet with significant meat consumption. Artifacts from this time indicate the use of a chipped stone used cutting through thick hides. This tool is use is attributed to the increased use of additional stone tools that will be used throughout the history of man. It is suggested from the bones found at the sites of \"Australopithecine\" that the joints of larger animals were butchered with this tool from the carcass and dragged on the skin to their dwelling places for multiple uses. Evidence from the hominid, \"Pithecanthropoid\", shows the use of the a coup-de-point tool for butchering and skinning, and that groups would live in large, tent shelters made from spreading skins over wooden frameworks. Skins are also believed to have been running along the sides of shelters in rough bundles. The skins used in these structures are believed to have been warmed by fire which created a curing effect by drying the skins slowly. It is suggested that special skinning and scraping tools were created after witnessing this natural progression of the skins, which spread the skin's fats across the hide. This process is considered by some the first creation of leather nearly a million years ago.\n\nDuring the Medieval era tanning was considered a skilled trade and was second to wool as a textile fabric. During this period the first job of a tanner was to wash hides free of blood, manure and other curing materials before being rehydrated. To accomplish this task a nearby river or stream was often used. Other methods for this task would include trampling on the hides with feet or pounding on the material with hammers. Upon this task's completion, the hides were then set with the hair side up to remove the hair without damaging the surface. To loosen the hair it was common to either let the leather become putrid or by speeding up the process with liquors such as stale beer, fermented barley or mulberry, dung or bryony leaves. Soaking skins in liquors prepared with wood ash or lime would accomplish a similar effect. When the skin was deemed adequetely prepared it would be stretched over a beam and scraped. The hair side would be scraped with a blunt, single edge unhairing knife and the flesh with a sharper, two-edge fleshing knife. The process would continue with another soaking and scraping with a blunt scudding knife. The next step in the process was to wash the skin further and then add an alkaline bating to remove excess lime and create a softer, finer grain. After repeating this step, the skin would be laid over the beam once more to remove any of the waste products that were released in the process often referenced as slime. After the skin was considered cleaned and prepared it was ready for the tanning process. This would occur by placing the skin in a pit on top of ground tanning material, then covered by additional ground tanning material, and the process would be repeated until the pit was nearly full. Tanning materials were dependent on the local landscape and were most often tree matter (oak, birch, willow, spruce, etc.). Upon filling the pit with the skins, the pit would be filled with cold water or another mixture and the skins were left to sit for close to a year. When a tanner judged that the leather was sufficiently tanned, the skins were removed, rinsed, and smoothed with a knife before being slowly dried in a dark space. At the point that the leather is dried, it is sold to a currier for additional processing.\n\nAcid Hydrolysis is the breakage of bonds by hydronium ions. Hydronium ions are contained within the liquid form of water and cause the breakage of bonds within ionic structures. When an acid is dissolved in water it separates the hydrogen ion from the other ions of the acid and the hydrogen reacts with the water molecules to form the hydronium ions causing the aforementioned hydrolysis. With the presence of an acid in this reaction this process is known as acid hydrolysis. The most commonly agent of acid hydrolysis found in historical leathers is attributed to sulfuric acid, which is absorbed from industrial pollution as sulfur dioxide. In the presence of sunlight, the sulfur dioxide is converted into sulfur trioxide and then absorbed by the tannins in the leather. The trioxide is then hydrated into sulfuric acid, dissolving in the present moisture of the leather creating the hydronium ions. It is then from these hydronium ions that internal links are broken among the leather molecules. Breakdowns include a reduction in bonds between amino acids and collagen, and additional breakdown may occur from the tannins and acids inherently present in the leather which may increase the risks and severity of acid hydrolysis. Heat, moisture and a low pH are also contributing factors in this process.\n\nOxidation is the loss of an electron among leather, most often attributed to oxygen as the oxidizing agent or molecule of electron loss. Oxidation may also occur due to the effects of light and heat.\n\nMetals that act as catalysts of oxidation are the greatest concern in leather deterioration. Iron is the most common contaminant found in the manufacture of leather and can act as a catalyst for oxidation and eventually lead to breakdown of molecules by hydrolysis.\n\nHeat is the transference of kinetic energy to the leather. When this occurs, the internal molecules of the leather increase in speed and begin colliding with one another at a rate so fast that the bonds of the leather molecules are no longer capable of remaining intact and thus break. The effect of heat is most often associated with long term exposure and rapid fluctuations in temperature on the leather. When exposed to heat in either condition, leather may lose the ability to absorb water from the air and the result is a hard or brittle state, this is referred to as hysteresis. This is due to the interconnected nature of external heat and moisture content in leather. Water: see the above relationship of heat and moisture content in leather\n\nRed rot is the degradation of leather when it reacts with sulfur dioxide or other air pollutants. Objects affected by red rot go through several stages. In the early stages of red rot, leather will exhibit a pinkish color that becomes progressively darker as the decay progresses. The degradation and disintegration of red rot cannot be reversed. In order to preserve the object in this altered state the two most significant steps for preservation are to store the object in a controlled air environment and to place where minimal handling will occur.\n\nTo ensure the longevity of leather objects these are the proper steps that should be taken toward preservation\n\nWhen the primary focus of an object's future is storage, the first concern is to ensure that the object is in a stable condition where it can be handled, with aesthetics as a low priority. The handler of the object should be aware of the conditions for display and storage and changes, if any, in location needs should be addressed. The relative humidity of any storage location should be monitored and kept below 65% to prevent mold growth as well keeping good circulation and temperature. Most leather conservators focus their efforts on identifying the proper methods for the storage and display of leather objects because it is reversible and causes no direct physical harm to the object.\n\nThe first principle in determining treatment is to require that all conservation be reversible, appropriate and the least invasive possible. It should be the intent of the conservation to place the object in a stable condition with the least amount of future deterioration. The simplest form of this process can be found in moving an object to a more stable environment. An example of a minor concern would stabilizing loose sections of leather or a flaking surface of the material. Several solutions could be utilized from application of surface finishes or inpainting of damage. Careful consideration should be given to ensure the selected method is the best conservation practice. On the more severe side of the spectrum of conservation is full restoration. This would mean that a most if not all of the leather covering of an object would need to be replaced. The context in which an object is to be displayed is an important factor in determining what degree of repairs should take place. A used workman's pouch or bag would not require a new condition look as it would alter the object's interpretation, dependent on location and history.\n\nThe degree of handling and access will play a large role in the decisions of care and treatment, as well as display locations. If an object is in a position that is highly susceptible to touching or handling by the public, it should either be moved away to a newer location away from open display or staff should be prepared for the object's frequent repair or eventual replacement. In most cases, if an object's condition is to a point where it may be lost forever due to continued exposure, it should be properly stored away in the proper environment and have a minimal future handling as possible.\n\nA finish or dressing is most often applied for aesthetic reasons rather than conservation. When a dressing is applied it may brighten an object and give a new sheen to the leather without ever contributing to the preservation of the object, in some instances this may lead to conservation problems. Therefore, any applied finishes should be carefully considered and studied before placing on an object for conservation. Dressing or finishes may absorb dirt creating a tacky surface. Some may contain inappropriate ingredients or over application may lead to spewing. Spewing is the rise of white deposits of free fatty acids to the leather surface which is often mistaken for mold.\nDressings should never be applied to painted leather of any kind. The oils and fats can permanent discoloration and softening of the varnishes. Application of this kind may not happen immediately and should not lead to a belief that it will be successful in the following months or years. Previous removal of over-varnish utilized the same materials as the original varnish, which led to stripping the entire varnish coat. In modern leather preservation the original surface coating may be stripped completely off to provide a uniform replacement finish. It is not advised for this method on historical pieces but is highly appropriate on reproductions and modern leather-works as they may prolong the life of the material without compromising the historical value or integrity.\n\nThere are a number of very specific techniques used to conserve and restore leathers.\n\nThere are a number of very specific materials that are used in the conservation and restoration of leather.\n"}
{"id": "33557859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33557859", "title": "Crime, Media, Culture", "text": "Crime, Media, Culture\n\nCrime Media Culture is a fully peer reviewed, international journal providing the primary vehicle for exchange between scholars who are working at the intersections of criminological and cultural inquiry. It promotes a broad cross-disciplinary understanding of the relationship between crime, criminal justice, media and culture. The journal explores a range of media forms (including traditional media, new and alternative media, and surveillance technologies) and has a special focus on cultural criminology and its concerns with image, representation, meaning and style. While \"CMC\" embraces submissions across a range of research perspectives and methodological orientations, CMC encourages especially work that develops cultural, critical, and qualitative understandings of the crime, media, culture nexus\n\nThe journal invites papers in three broad substantive areas:\n\n\nFounded in 2005 by Jeff Ferrell, Yvonne Jewkes and Chris Greer, CMC is currently edited by Michelle Brown (University of Tennessee-Knoxville) and Eammon Carrabine(University of Essex).\n\nPrevious Editors are:\n\nJeff Ferrell (Texas Christian University and University of Kent)\n\nChris Greer (City University London)\n\nMark S. Hamm (Indiana State University)\n\nYvonne Jewkes (University of Kent)\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Scopus and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2013 impact factor is 0.730, ranking it 30th out of 52 journals in the category \"Criminology & Penology\" and 79th out of 137 journals in the category \"Sociology\".\n"}
{"id": "16244314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16244314", "title": "David Walls (academic)", "text": "David Walls (academic)\n\nDavid Walls (born October 21, 1941) is an activist and academic who has made significant contributions to Appalachian studies and to the popular understanding of social movements. He is professor emeritus of sociology at Sonoma State University (SSU) in California, where he was dean of extended education from 1984 to 2000.\n\nBorn David Stuart Walls in Chicago, Illinois, he grew up on the Upper Peninsula of Michigan and in Duluth, Minnesota. He finished the last two years of high school in Coral Gables, Florida. He attended the University of California, Berkeley as an undergraduate from 1959 to 1964, earning a bachelor's degree in economics. While at Berkeley, he was active in SLATE, the campus political party, and served a term on the board of directors of the Associated Students of the University of California.\n\nAfter graduating from UC Berkeley, he began work in 1964 as a management intern at the Department of Health, Education and Welfare in Washington, DC, serving as an assistant to Mary E. Switzer, commissioner of the Vocational Rehabilitation Administration, and her deputy. In 1965 he transferred to the newly established War on Poverty headquarters, the Office of Economic Opportunity (OEO), where he worked in the Community Action Program, assisting Jule Sugarman with the launch of Project Head Start and funding student volunteer programs.\n\nIn fall 1966 Walls joined the staff of the Appalachian Volunteers (AV), a nonprofit agency conducting community organizing projects in the central Appalachian coalfields of eastern Kentucky, southern West Virginia, and southwestern Virginia. He moved to Harlan County, Kentucky to supervise VISTA volunteers. A year later he became field coordinator for the AV in the state, and moved to Berea, Kentucky. When founding executive director Milton Ogle resigned in August 1968, Walls became the director for the organization's final year. Although his initial work in Harlan County involved organizing low-income people to demand representation on the Cumberland Valley's community action agency, he soon was drawn into the growing opposition to strip-mining for coal, after a landslide from a strip-mine bench threatened a house at the head of Jones Creek, above Verda on the Clover Fork of the Cumberland River in Harlan County. The AV's support for people opposing strip-mining for coal led to sedition charges in Pike County, Kentucky in August 1967 against an AV staff member and two workers for the Southern Conference Education Fund. Although the sedition charges were quickly dismissed by federal judge and former Kentucky governor Bert T. Combs, the case undermined OEO support for the AV.\n\nAfter Republican governor Louie B. Nunn was elected in November 1967, the AV faced an investigation by the Kentucky Un-American Activities Committee (KUAC). Walls issued a statement challenging the constitutionality of KUAC and the legality of the hearings. He refused an invitation to appear before the committee, but was not issued a subpoena, which he had hoped to challenge in court. In an interview with the Louisville \"Courier-Journal\", Walls summarized the outlook of the AV staff on the coalfield region: \n\nAn impatience with the slowness of change and paternalistic government programs; a distrust of experts who think they can solve the problems of poor people; a disgust with the way corruption is taken for granted in the mountains; a trust in the ability of poor people to solve their own problems, given the proper tools and money; a desire to end the colonialistic exploitation of Appalachia by corporations in Pittsburgh and New York and by small cliques of men in county seats; and a belief that the wealth of the area's mineral resources ought to go toward constructing a better way of life for all the people who live here. \n\nPolitical pressures to terminate funding for the AV finally took their toll, and no further OEO support was forthcoming. After attempting an orderly spin-off or phase-out of AV staff and programs, Walls resigned as executive director in April 1970.\n\nWalls began graduate work in sociology at the University of Kentucky (UK) in fall 1969, while still working part-time for the AV. In fall 1970 he began full-time studies at UK, moving to Lexington, Kentucky, to live with a group of fellow graduate students in Collective One, a politically progressive household of five men and five women. With an offset press in the basement, Collective One printed leaflets for the local anti-Vietnam War and women's movements. The women in the collective were among the initiators of the women's liberation movement in Lexington. Collective members also helped organize participation in local and national demonstrations against the Vietnam War, and helped elect one of their group, Scott Wendelsdorf, to two terms as student body president. Walls married Lucia Gattone, whom he had met in Prestonsburg, Kentucky while working for the AV, at Collective One on Thanksgiving Day, 1971. He received an MA in sociology in 1972 with a thesis comparing dialectical sociology in Peter Berger and Western Marxism. After two years Collective One broke up as members went their separate ways to jobs and other graduate schools.\n\nRemaining at UK, Walls worked toward a doctorate in sociology and edited \"Appalachia in the Sixties\" with his faculty mentor John B. Stephenson. In fall 1974, Walls accepted a faculty position of assistant professor in the social work program at UK. He also worked with a group of colleagues to organize the interdisciplinary Appalachian Center at UK, with a mission of promoting Appalachian studies courses, research on the region, and community service. The Appalachian Center was formally established in 1976, with Stephenson named director, and Walls designated associate director. A meeting between Walls and American studies professor Alessandro Portelli during a visit to Rome, Italy, in 1973 led to a long-term exchange program, involving graduate students and faculty, between the UK Appalachian Center and Sapienza University of Rome.\n\nWalls's doctoral research produced several articles and chapters that contributed to the emerging field of Appalachian studies. At the 1975 Appalachian Symposium held at Appalachian State University to honor Cratis D. Williams, Walls presented his paper \"On the Naming of Appalachia,\" \nwhich identified the first appearances of \"Appalachia\" on the maps of early explorers and mapmakers. This conference served as a catalyst for the Appalachian Studies Association. At UK, Walls elaborated on the application of the internal colonialism model to the Appalachian region, first developed by Helen M. Lewis, and collaborated with sociologist Dwight Billings on the sociology of the southern Appalachians, the structure of the coal industry for the Ohio River Basin Energy Study, and the foundations of the university's Appalachian studies curriculum. His Ph.D. in sociology was awarded in 1978.\n\nIn 1982 Walls returned to California to take a job at Sonoma State University (SSU) as director of sponsored programs and general manager of the SSU Academic Foundation. In 1984 he became the dean of the school of extended education. During his tenure as dean, SSU introduced a BA degree completion program with a distance learning component, MA degrees in liberal studies and computer and engineering science, and an expanded group of MA degrees in psychology, including organizational development and depth psychology. He received an academic appointment in sociology, and taught classes on the civil rights movement, the environmental movement, and gender and social movements.\n\nWalls authored \"The Activist's Almanac: The Concerned Citizen's Guide to the Leading Advocacy Organizations in America\", interviewing over a hundred leaders of national social movement organizations.\nAfter a favorable review of \"The Activist's Almanac\" in \"The Workbook\" (a quarterly aimed at activists in the Southwest), editor Kathy Cone invited several articles by Walls. These appeared in \"The Workbook\" between 1994 and 2000, when the magazine was discontinued by its sponsor. Walls's survey article on community organizing has been updated twice and remains a popular on-line resource.\n\nIn the early 2000s Walls engaged in a dispute with Project Censored over what he saw as a denial of war crimes committed by Serbs in Bosnia and Kosovo, specifically concerning atrocities at Trnopolje camp and Omarska camp near Prijedor in Bosnia, and the Račak massacre in Kosovo. Walls's article in \"New Politics\" drew a supportive letter from sociologist Bogdan Denitch and rejoinders from Peter Phillips, Diana Johnstone, and Edward S. Herman & David Peterson, with replies to each by Walls. He was also critical of Project Censored's occasional inability to distinguish between sound and unsound science, as in the case of NASA's Cassini-Huygens mission to Saturn and its promotion of 9/11 conspiracy theories.\n\nWalls stepped down as dean in 2000, and taught part-time at SSU for four years, retiring as emeritus professor in 2005. He has since taught short courses on the sources of social movement success for the Osher Lifelong Learning Institutes (OLLI programs) at SSU and other northern California campuses.\n\nAppalachian Studies\n\n\nSocial Theory\n\n\nSocial Movements\n\n\nHuman Rights\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58192248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58192248", "title": "Der Bäbu", "text": "Der Bäbu\n\nMarschner scored the opera for two piccolos and two flutes (not doubling), two oboes, two clarinets, two bassoons, four horns, three trombones, timpani, tamtam, and strings.\n\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "27499104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27499104", "title": "Dieter Schuh", "text": "Dieter Schuh\n\nDieter Schuh (; born 1942) is a German Tibetologist, entrepreneur and politician.\n\nSchuh graduated in 1972 from Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms University in Bonn and submitted his habilitation in 1976. He has been a Professor of Tibetan Studies since 1978. He was given the title professor emeritus in 2007.\n\nIn addition to his academic career Schuh is an entrepreneur. \n\nSince 1983, he and his son Temba have led a company as a property developer, property and asset managers, since the early 1990s established in Halle, Saxony-Anhalt. He also started the weekly magazine New Hallesches daily paper on 1 March 1996, which he disbanded after a few weeks. In 1994 he was an independent member of the Council of the Halle in Saxony-Anhalt.\n\nFor research purposes he stayed several times in Tibet and bordering areas. In addition he has published many academic papers and books on subjects related to Tibet. In various publications, he has worked with other Tibetologists including Luciano Petech, Christopher Beckwith and Peter Schwieger. He also edited several books. \n\nIn 1983 he developed the book \"Tibet - dream and reality\" with a DVD documentary of the snow land of Tibet, the Tibet of his journey along with members of the German ZDF television channel.\nOn his 65th Birthday, the anniversary publication \"Tibetstudien: Festschrift für Dieter Schuh zum 65. Geburtstag\" was edited by Petra Maurer and others, with contributions from various tibetologists. He lives in Switzerland.\n\nSchuh is Managing Director of IITB GmbH (International Institute for Tibetan and Buddhist Studies GmbH).\n"}
{"id": "52766081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52766081", "title": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in China", "text": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in China\n\nThe Embassy of the State of Palestine in China () is the diplomatic mission of the State of Palestine in China. It is located in Sanlitun in Beijing.\n\n"}
{"id": "581799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=581799", "title": "Environmental design", "text": "Environmental design\n\nEnvironmental design is the process of addressing surrounding environmental parameters when devising plans, programs, policies, buildings, or products. Classical prudent design may have always considered environmental factors; however, the environmental movement beginning in the 1940s has made the concept more explicit.\n\nEnvironmental design can also refer to the applied arts and sciences dealing with creating the human-designed environment. These fields include architecture, geography, urban planning, landscape architecture, and interior design. Environmental design can also encompass interdisciplinary areas such as historical preservation and lighting design. In terms of a larger scope, environmental design has implications for the industrial design of products: innovative automobiles, wind-electricity generators, solar-electric equipment, and other kinds of equipment could serve as examples. Currently, the term has expanded to apply to ecological and sustainability issues.\n\nThe first traceable concepts of environmental designs focused primarily on solar heating, which began in Ancient Greece around 500 BCE. At the time, most of Greece had exhausted its supply of wood for fuel, leading architects to design houses that would capture the solar energy of the sun. The Greeks understood that the position of the sun varies throughout the year. For a latitude of 40 degrees in summer the sun is high in the south, at an angle of 70 degrees at the zenith, while in winter, the sun travels a lower trajectory, with a zenith of 26 degrees. Greek houses were built with south-facing façades which received little to no sun in the summer but would receive full sun in the winter, warming the house. Additionally, the southern orientation also protected the house from the colder northern winds. This clever arrangement of buildings influenced the use of the grid pattern of ancient cities. With the North-South orientation of the houses, the streets of Greek cities mainly ran East-West.\n\nThe practice of solar architecture continued with the Romans, who similarly had deforested much of their native Italian Peninsula by the first century BCE. The Roman \"heliocaminus\", literally 'solar furnace', functioned with the same aspects of the earlier Greek houses. The numerous public baths were oriented to the south. Roman architects added glass to windows to allow for the passage of light and to conserve interior heat as it could not escape. The Romans also used greenhouses to grow crops all year long and to cultivate the exotic plants coming from the far corners of the Empire. Pliny the Elder wrote of greenhouses that supplied the kitchen of the Emperor Tiberius during the year.\n\nAlong with the solar orientation of buildings and the use of glass as a solar heat collector, the ancients knew other ways of harnessing solar energy. The Greeks, Romans and Chinese developed curved mirrors that could concentrate the sun's rays on an object with enough intensity to make it burn in seconds. The solar reflectors were often made of polished silver, copper or brass.\n\nEarly roots of modern environmental design began in the late 19th Century with writer/designer William Morris, who rejected the use of industrialized materials and processes in wallpaper, fabrics and books his studio produced. He and others, such as John Ruskin felt that the industrial revolution would lead to harm done to nature and workers.\n\nThe narrative of Brian Danitz and Chris Zelov's documentary film \"\" asserts that in the decades after World War II, \"The world was forced to confront the dark shadow of science and industry.\" From the middle of the twentieth century, thinkers like Buckminster Fuller have acted as catalysts for a broadening and deepening of the concerns of environmental designers. Nowadays, energy efficiency, appropriate technology, organic horticulture and agriculture, land restoration, New Urbanism, and ecologically sustainable energy and waste systems are recognized considerations or options and may each find application.\n\nBy integrating renewable energy sources such as solar photovoltaic, solar thermal, and even geothermal energy into structures, it is possible to create zero emission buildings, where energy consumption is self-generating and non-polluting. It is also possible to construct \"energy-plus buildings\" which generate more energy than they consume, and the excess could then be sold to the grid. In the United States, the LEED Green Building Rating System rates structures on their environmental sustainability.\n\nEnvironmental design and planning is the moniker used by several Ph.D. programs that take a multidisciplinary approach to the built environment. Typically environmental design and planning programs address architectural history or design (interior or exterior), city or regional planning, landscape architecture history or design, environmental planning, construction science, cultural geography, or historic preservation. Social science methods are frequently employed; aspects of sociology or psychology can be part of a research program.\n\nThe concept of \"environmental\" in these programs is quite broad and can encompass aspects of the natural, built, work, or social environments.\n\nThe following universities offer a Ph.D. in environmental design and planning:\n\nVirginia Tech until recently offered the degree program, but has since replaced it with programs in \"architecture and design research\" and \"planning, governance, and globalization\".\n\nFanshawe College in London, Ontario Canada offers an honours bachelor's degree called \"Environmental Design and planning.\n\n\nExamples of the environmental design process include use of roadway noise computer models in design of noise barriers and use of roadway air dispersion models in analyzing and designing urban highways.\n\nDesigners consciously working within this more recent framework of philosophy and practice seek a blending of nature and technology, regarding ecology as the basis for design. Some believe that strategies of conservation, stewardship, and regeneration can be applied at all levels of scale from the individual building to the community, with benefit to the human individual and local and planetary ecosystems.\n\nSpecific examples of large scale environmental design projects include:\n"}
{"id": "1167558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1167558", "title": "Fouad Ajami", "text": "Fouad Ajami\n\nFouad A. Ajami (; September 18, 1945 – June 22, 2014), was a MacArthur Fellowship winning, Lebanese-born of Shiite Muslim ancestry, American university professor and writer on Middle Eastern issues. He was a senior fellow at Stanford University's Hoover Institution.\n\nAjami was an outspoken supporter of the Iraq War, the nobility of which, \"can be no doubt\".\n\nAjami was born in Arnoun, a rocky hamlet in the south of Lebanon into a Shia Muslim family. His Shiite great-grandfather had come to Arnoun from Tabriz, Iran in the 1850s. In Arabic, the word \"Ajami\" means \"non-Arab\"; or \"non-Arabic-speaker\", specifically \"Persian\", \"Persian speaker\". Ajami arrived in the United States in the fall of 1963, just before he turned 18. He did some of his undergraduate work at Eastern Oregon College (now Eastern Oregon University) in La Grande, Oregon. He did his graduate work at the University of Washington, where he wrote his thesis on international relations and world government, and earned a PhD.\n\nIn 1973 Ajami joined the politics department of Princeton University. He made a name for himself there as a vocal supporter of Palestinian self-determination. In 1980, the School of Advanced International Studies of Johns Hopkins University named him director of Middle East studies. He joined the Hoover Institution in 2011.\n\nAjami was an advisor to United States Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice as well as a friend and colleague of Paul Wolfowitz.\n\nAjami was a frequent contributor on Middle Eastern issues and contemporary international history to \"The New York Times Book Review\", \"Foreign Affairs\", \"The New Republic\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", as well as other journals and periodicals. He was also a contributor and close friend to Anderson Cooper of CNN.He was also a frequent guest on Fox News Channel's \"America's News Headquarters w/ Uma Pemmaraju\"\n\nAjami frequently appeared on PBS, CBS and CNN News. along with Fox News.\n\nIn \"The Fate of Nonalignment,\" an essay in the Winter 1980/81 issue of the journal \"Foreign Affairs\", Ajami outlined how the third world has fared in a context of nonalignment in post Cold war politics. In 1980, he accepted an offer from Johns Hopkins University to become director of Middle East Studies at their international relations graduate program in Washington, D.C.: the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS). He holds an endowed chair as the Majid Khadduri professor.\n\nA year after arriving at SAIS, Ajami published his first book, \"The Arab Predicament\", which analyzed what Ajami described as an intellectual and political crisis that swept the Arab world following its defeat by Israel in the 1967 Six-Day War.\n\nSubsequently, Ajami has written several other books: \"\" (1998), \"Beirut: City of Regrets\" (1988), and \"The Vanished Imam: Musa Al-Sadr and the Shia of Lebanon\" (1986).\n\nIn \"The Dream Palace of the Arabs: A Generation's Odyssey\", Ajami surveyed the intellectual landscape in the Arab world and Iran, in what was in some ways an autobiography as well as a sequel to \"The Arab Predicament.\" On Middle Eastern politics, he wrote of \"a world where triumph rarely comes with mercy or moderation.\" On Pan-Arabism, he described the ideology as \"Sunni dominion dressed in secular garb.\"\n\nAjami's most recent book: \"The Foreigner's Gift: The Americans, The Arabs and The Iraqis in Iraq\" (2006), is about the American invasion of Iraq.\n\nOne notable contribution Ajami made in the September October 1993 issue of \"Foreign Affairs\" was a rebuttal to Samuel Huntington’s \"The Clash of Civilizations?\", regarding the state and future of international relations after the Cold War. According to Judith Miller, Ajami continued to argue that militant Islamism of the type represented by Al Qaeda had peaked and was fading into insignificance.\n\nHuntington presents a world divided at the highest level into eight civilizations, and includes a number of countries that are \"torn\" between two civilizations, arguing that these civilizational divides are far more fundamental than economic interests, ideology, and regimes, and that the world is becoming a smaller place with increasingly close interactions. He further claims that the pre-eminence of a so-called \"kin-country\" syndrome will provide a civilizational rallying point that will replace political ideology and traditional \"balance of power\" considerations for relations between states and nations, resulting in a division between the West and \"the rest\" creating a backlash against Western values (which supposedly \"differ fundamentally\" from those prevalent in other civilizations).\n\nIn his article \"The Summoning\", Ajami criticises Huntington for ignoring the empirical complexities and state interests which drive conflicts in and between civilizations. Ajami believes that states will remain the dominant factor influencing the global framework and interaction. He also argues that civilizational ties are only utilized by states and groups when it is in their best interest to do so and that modernity and secularism are here to stay, especially in places with considerable struggles to obtain them, and he cites the example of the Indian middle class. Ajami also believes that civilizations do not control states; rather, states control civilizations.\n\nAjami later relented on his initial criticism of Huntington's theories in the January 6, 2008 issue of the \"New York Times Book Review\" in an article titled \"The Clash\" in which he wrote that \"Huntington’s thesis about a civilizational clash seems more compelling to me than the critique I provided at that time.\"\n\nAjami was an outspoken supporter of the Iraq War, which he believed “issued out of a deep American frustration... with the culture of terrorism that had put down roots in Arab lands.\"\n\nIn an August 2002 speech before the Veterans of Foreign Wars, US Vice President Dick Cheney sought to assuage concerns about the anticipated US invasion of Iraq, stating: \"As for the reaction of the Arab 'street,' the Middle East expert Professor Fouad Ajami predicts that after liberation, the streets in Basra and Baghdad are 'sure to erupt in joy in the same way the throngs in Kabul greeted the Americans.'\"\n\nAjami cautioned the United States about the likely negative consequences of the Iraq War. In a 2003 essay in \"Foreign Affairs\", \"Iraq and the Arabs' Future,\" Ajami wrote, \n\nThere should be no illusions about the sort of Arab landscape that America is destined to find if, or when, it embarks on a war against the Iraqi regime. There would be no \"hearts and minds\" to be won in the Arab world, no public diplomacy that would convince the overwhelming majority of Arabs that this war would be a just war. An American expedition in the wake of thwarted UN inspections would be seen by the vast majority of Arabs as an imperial reach into their world, a favor to Israel, or a way for the United States to secure control over Iraq's oil. No hearing would be given to the great foreign power.\n\nBut he also goes on to say:\n\nAmerica ought to be able to live with this distrust and discount a good deal of this anti-Americanism as the \"road rage\" of a thwarted Arab world – the congenital condition of a culture yet to take full responsibility for its self-inflicted wounds. There is no need to pay excessive deference to the political pieties and givens of the region. Indeed, this is one of those settings where a reforming foreign power's simpler guidelines offer a better way than the region's age-old prohibitions and defects.\n\nAjami retained a positive view of the war three years later. In a 2006 book on the invasion and its aftermath, he described it as a noble effort, and argued that despite many unhappy consequences, it was too soon to write it off as a failure.\n\nVice President Cheney cited Ajami again in an October 21, 2007 speech to the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, stating, \"We have no illusions about the road ahead. As Fouad Ajami said recently, Iraq is not yet 'a country at peace, and all its furies have not burned out, but a measure of order has begun to stick on the ground.'\"\n\nEight days after U.S. President Barack Obama took office, a \"Wall Street Journal\" op-ed piece by Ajami called Obama a \"messenger of the old, settled ways,\" claimed that the George W. Bush administration's diplomacy had had \"revolutionary impact,\" and chided Obama for not praising the Iraq War. Ajami credited the Egyptian Revolution and Tunisian revolution to the Iraq War and Bush's advocacy of democracy:\n\nHe also stated, however, that\n\nIn June 2011, Ajami wrote an article for \"The New Republic\" arguing that the U.S. troops should remain in Iraq, writing that \"the United States will have to be prepared for and accept the losses and adversity that are an integral part of staying on, rightly, in so tangled and difficult a setting.\" On June 13, 2011 he wrote in the Wall Street Journal about the unrest in Syria that \"The mask of the Assad regime finally falls...\"\n\nOn June 22, 2014, Ajami died from prostate cancer at a summer home in Maine, aged 68.\n\nAjami was a 1982 winner of a five-year MacArthur Prize Fellowship in the arts and sciences.\nIn 2006, he was awarded the National Humanities Medal by President Bush, and the Bradley Prize, and in 2011 he earned the Benjamin Franklin Award for public service, and the Eric Breindel Award for Excellence in Opinion Journalism.\n\nAjami was a member of the Board of Directors of the Council on Foreign Relations, and the Board of Advisors of the journal \"Foreign Affairs\". Ajami was a founding member of ASMEA (The Association for the Study of the Middle East and Africa) and was Vice Chairman of its academic council. Ajami also sat on the editorial board of Middle East Quarterly, a publication of the Middle East Forum think tank. He was a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and the cochair of their Working Group on Islamism and the International Order.\n\n"}
{"id": "33744587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33744587", "title": "Gary Hall (academic)", "text": "Gary Hall (academic)\n\nGary Hall (born 21 March 1962) is British cultural and media theorist and Professor of Media and Performing Arts in the Coventry University Department of Media, UK.\n\nHall is a cultural and media theorist working on continental philosophy, cultural politics, cultural studies, new media technologies, and the digital humanities. In 2008 he authored \"Digitize This Book!: The Politics of New Media, or Why We Need Open Access Now\". Published by the University of Minnesota Press, it was the first book on open access publishing and archiving written specifically from a critical theory perspective.\n\nTogether with Clare Birchall, Joanna Zylinska and Open Humanities Press, Hall created the Jisc-funded project \"LivBL: Living Books about Life\", a sustainable series of electronic open access books about life - with life understood both philosophically and biologically - providing a bridge between the humanities and the sciences.\n\nIn 1999, along with Dave Boothroyd, Hall founded the online, open access, peer-reviewed journal of cultural studies and cultural theory, \"Culture Machine\". In 2006, together with Steve Green, he established the first open access archive for cultural and media studies research, CSeARCH (Cultural Studies e-Archive), and in 2006, working with Sigi Jottkandt, David Ottina, and Paul Ashton, he founded Open Humanities Press in response to the perceived crisis in academic publishing.\n\nIn April 2018, Hall was one of 40 senior academics who wrote an open letter to \"The Guardian\" condemning what they called anti-Corbyn bias in media coverage of the antisemitism debate saying it was \"framed in such a way as to mystify the real sources of anti-Jewish bigotry and to weaponise it against a single political figure just ahead of important elections.\"\n\nOpen Humanities Press was founded In 2006 by Sigi Jottkandt, David Ottina, and Paul Ashton alongside Gary Hall. OHP is the first open-access publishing ‘house’ explicitly dedicated to critical and cultural theory with the aim to develop a new sustainable business model for the open publication and dissemination of academic research and scholarship in the arts and humanities. In 2009 OHP launched the 'monograph project'. Designed to publish monographs in an open access manner, this project is run in collaboration with the University of Michigan Library’s Scholarly Publishing Office, University of California, Irvine, University of California, Los Angeles Library, and the Public Knowledge Project headed by John Willinsky at Stanford University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "738601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=738601", "title": "Gertrude Himmelfarb", "text": "Gertrude Himmelfarb\n\nGertrude Himmelfarb (born August 8, 1922), also known as Bea Kristol, is an American historian. She has been a leader of conservative interpretations of history and historiography. She has written extensively on intellectual history, with a focus on Great Britain and the Victorian era, as well as on contemporary society and culture.\n\nHimmelfarb was born in Brooklyn, New York, the daughter of Bertha (née Lerner) and Max Himmelfarb, both of Russian Jewish background. She received her undergraduate degree from Brooklyn College in 1942 and her doctorate from the University of Chicago in 1950. Himmelfarb later went on to study at Cambridge University in the United Kingdom, and the Jewish Theological Seminary in New York.\n\nIn 1942, she married Irving Kristol, known as the \"godfather\" of neoconservatism, and has two children, Elizabeth Nelson and William Kristol, a political commentator and editor of The Weekly Standard. She has long been involved in Jewish conservative intellectual circles. Professor Emerita at the Graduate School of the City University of New York, she is the recipient of many awards and honorary degrees. She has served on the Council of Scholars of the Library of Congress, the Council of Academic Advisors of the American Enterprise Institute, and the Council of the National Endowment for the Humanities. She is a Fellow of the British Academy and of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 1991 she delivered the Jefferson Lecture under the auspices of the National Endowment for the Humanities. In 2004 she received the National Humanities Medal awarded by the President.\n\nHimmelfarb has long nurtured the neoconservative movement in U.S. politics and intellectual life; her husband Irving Kristol helped found the movement.\n\nHimmelfarb is a leading defender of traditional historical methods and practices. Her book \"The New History and the Old\" (published in 1987 and revised and expanded in 2004) is a critique of the varieties of \"new history\" that have sought to displace the old. The \"New Histories\" she critiqued include: quantitative history that presumes to be more \"scientific\" than conventional history but relies on partial and dubious data; Marxist historiography derived from economic assumptions and class models that leave little room for the ideas and beliefs of contemporaries or the actual protagonists and events of history; psychoanalytic history dependent on theories and speculations that violate the accepted criteria of historical evidence; analytic history that reduces history to a series of isolated \"moments\" with no overriding narrative structure; social history, \"history from the bottom,\" that denigrates the role of politics, nationality, and individuals (the \"great men\" of history); and, most recently, postmodernist history, which denies even the ideal of objectivity, viewing all of history as a \"social construct\" on the part of the historian.\n\nHimmelfarb criticized A.J.P. Taylor for seeking to \"demoralize\" history in his 1961 book \"The Origins of the Second World War\", and for refusing to recognize \"moral facts\" about interwar Europe. Himmelfarb maintained that Taylor was wrong to treat Adolf Hitler as a \"normal\" German leader playing by the traditional rules of diplomacy in \"The Origins of the Second World War\" instead of being a \"world-historical\" figure like Napoleon.\n\nHimmelfarb has energetically rejected postmodern academic approaches:\n\nHimmelfarb is best known as a historian of Victorian England. But she puts that period in a larger context. Her book \"The Idea of Poverty\" opens with an extended analysis of Adam Smith and Thomas Malthus, who helped shape debate and policies through much the 19th century and beyond. \"Victorian Minds\" features such eighteenth-century \"proto-Victorians\" as Edmund Burke and Jeremy Bentham, concluding with the \"last Victorian,\" John Buchan, 1st Baron Tweedsmuir, whose novels depict a 20th-century imbued with Victorian values. \"The Moral Imagination\" ranges from Burke to Winston Churchill and Lionel Trilling, with assorted Victorians and non-Victorians in between. \"On Looking into the Abyss\" has modern culture and society in the forefront and the Victorians in the background, while \"One Nation, Two Cultures\" is entirely about American culture and society. \"The Roads to Modernity\" enlarges the perspective of the Age of Enlightenment, both chronologically and nationally, placing the British Enlightenment in opposition to the French and in accord with the American. Most recently, \"The Jewish Odyssey of George Eliot\" and \"The People of the Book\" focus on attitudes to Jews, Judaism, and Zionism in England from their readmission in the 17th century to the present.\n\nAnd so with scores of essays demonstrating that Victorian \"values\" – \"virtues,\" she calls them – were not unique to that time and place. \"The Victorian Ethos: Before and after Victoria,\" is the title of one essay; \"Victorianism before Victoria\" are the opening words of another. The word \"Victorian\" today has a disagreeable and crabbed connotation, conjuring up repressive sexual and social mores. Himmelfarb humanizes and democratizes that concept. In an interview after receiving the National Humanities Medal, she explained that the Victorian virtues – prudence, temperance, industriousness, decency, responsibility – were thoroughly pedestrian. \"They depended on no special breeding, talent, sensibility, or even money. They were common, everyday virtues, within the capacity of ordinary people. They were the virtues of citizens, not of heroes or saints – and of citizens of democratic countries, not aristocratic ones.\" Himmelfarb has argued \"for the reintroduction of traditional values (she prefers the term 'virtues'), such as shame, responsibility, chastity, and self-reliance, into American political life and policy-making\".\n\nWhile she is identified in America as a conservative, in Britain people on the left admire her work. One of her most outspoken admirers is Gordon Brown, the former Labour Party Prime Minister. His introduction to the British edition of \"Roads to Modernity\" opens: \"I have long admired Gertrude Himmelfarb's historical work, in particular her love of the history of ideas, and her work has stayed with me ever since I was a history student at Edinburgh University.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8762611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8762611", "title": "Global Language Monitor", "text": "Global Language Monitor\n\nThe Global Language Monitor (GLM) is an Austin, Texas-based company that collectively documents, analyzes, and tracks trends in language usage worldwide, with a particular emphasis upon the English language. It is particularly known for its Word of the Year, political analysis, college and university rankings, High Tech buzzwords, and media analytics.\n\nFounded in Silicon Valley in 2003 by Paul J.J. Payack, the GLM describes its role as \"a media analytics company that documents, analyzes and tracks cultural trends in language the world over, with a particular emphasis upon Global English\". GLM's main services include various products based on the Narrative Tracker technologies for global Internet and social media analysis. NarrativeTracker is based on global discourse, providing a real-time, accurate picture about any topic, at any point in time. NarrativeTracker analyzes the Internet, blogosphere, the top 275,000 print and electronic global media, as well as new social media sources as they emerge. In April 2008, GLM moved its headquarters from San Diego to Austin.\n\nGLM announced \"Emoji\" as its Top Word of 2014 for Global English along with its complete lists of Top Words, Phrases and Names in December 2014.\n\nEarlier in 2015 GLM has released:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Top Words of the Decade from 2000 to 2009 were headed by Global Warming.\n\nThe Top Words of the Decade from 2000–2009\n\nWord / Year / Comments\n\nThe Top Stories of the decade from 2000-2009\n\nRank/News Story/Comment\n\nThe Top Phrases of the Decade from 2000–2009\n\nWord/Year/Comments\n\nAn annual ranking of the leading fashion capitals is produced by Global Language Monitor, a US-based company that tracks trends through language use worldwide. The 2017 top-sixty three fashion capitals, according to its rankings, are listed below.\n\nThe current 2017 rankings now include 63 fashion capitals. There are three new fashion capitals from West Africa: Accra, Ghana; Dakar, Senegal; and Lagos, Nigeria. There is one new fashion capital from East Asia: Kuala Lumpur. There is one new fashion capital from the Middle East: Beirut, Lebanon. Before the various insurgencies in the region, Beirut was known as the Paris of the Middle East. There are two new fashion capitals from North America: Portland, Oregon known for its ‘weird’ culture, much like Austin, Texas and Columbus, Ohio known in the fashion world as the manufacturing headquarters of Henri Bendel, Victoria’s Secret, the Bath & Body Works, Abercrombie & Fitch (A&F), and others.\n\nNo. 3 Barcelona — Moving into Big Four Territory is Big News by definition.\n\nNo. 4 Milano — Reclaiming its Big Four status; hmm, perhaps all that re-thinking and revamping just might be having an impact (we’ll see in 2018).\n\nNo. 6 London — Had a great run earlier in the decade, but not so great lately (If you consider the No. 6 spot not so great).\n\nNo. 7 Amsterdam — Moving up 15 spots is quite a move.\n\nNo. 9 Vegas — Back in the Top Ten, more evidence that the Red Carpet experience does indeed have an impact.\n\nNo. 10 Dubai — More evidence that billions of dollars Do, indeed, have an impact.\n\nNo. 17 Seoul — Finally making the move in Asia, not No. 1, but a respectable No. 3 regionally.\n\nNo. 21 Washington, DC — A move into respectability!?\n\nNo. 28 Melbourne and No. 34 Sydney — Trading Places\n\nNo. 44 Portland, OR — A very nice debut.\n\nNo. 47 Kuala Lumpur — Another solid debut.\n\nNo. 46 Boston, No. 48 Miami, No.53 Chicago, No. 54 Houston, and No. 59 Toronto — All down by twenty spots, or more.\n\nNo. 63 Caracas — On Hiatus due to Insurrection.\n\nMethodology: For this analysis, the Global Language Monitor used its proprietary Brand Affiliation Index (BAI), the same technology used to measure global brand equity for the Olympics, World Cup, the Fortune 500, and others. This exclusive, GLM longitudinal-study encompasses the prior three years to better assess short-term velocity and longer-term momentum. The study is a Big Data textual analysis based on billions of webpages, millions of blogs, the top 375,000 global print and electronic media, and new social media formats as they appear. This is the eleventh edition of the survey, which was first made public in 2007.\n\nOn March 29, 2013 announced The Most Confusing High Tech Buzzwords of the Second Decade of the 21st century, thus far (2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013) with commentary follow:\n\n2013 Rank, Buzzword, Last Year’s rank\n\n\nThe study was released in conjunction with Austin's South by Southwest Interactive festival.\n\nOn March 17, 2010, the Global Language Monitor presented the Most Confusing High Tech Buzzwords of the first decade of the 21st century (2000–2009).\n\n\nOn November 19, 2008 Global Language Monitor announced the most confusing yet frequently cited high tech buzzwords of 2008 to be cloud computing, green washing, and buzzword compliant followed by resonate, de-duping, and virtualization. Rounding out the Top Ten were Web 2.0, versioning, word clouds, and petaflop. The most confusing Acronym for 2008 was SaaS (software as a service).\n\nOn 14 October 2007 GLM released a list of the most confusing high tech terms and buzzwords. The words included:\n\n\"iPod\",\n\"flash\",\n\"cookie\",\n\"nano\" and\n\"kernel\",\nfollowed by\n\"megahertz\",\n\"cell\"\n(as in\n\"cell phone\"),\n\"plasma\",\n\"de-duplication\"\nand\n\"Blu-Ray\".\nOther terms being tracked included\n\"terabyte\",\n\"memory\",\n\"core\",\nand \"head crash\".\nThe most confusing acronym was found to be SOA, for service-oriented architecture, an acronym which IBM published a book about.\nThe studies were released each year on the anniversary of the \"cookie,\" the invention that made the World Wide Web practical for widespread surfing, communication, and e-commerce.\n\nGLM announced the 1,000,000th English word on June 10, 2009. This controversial exercise was widely covered in the global media. The count itself was widely criticized by a number of prominent members of the linguistic community, including Geoffrey Nunberg, and Jesse Sheidlower and Benjamin Zimmer. on the grounds that since there is no generally accepted definition of a word, there can never be a definitive count.\n\nThe finalists, which met the criteria of a minimum of 25,000 citations with the necessary breadth of geographic distribution and depth of citations, were:\n\n1. Web 2.0. 2. Jai Ho! 3. N00b. 4. Slumdog. 5. Cloud computing. 6. Carbon Neutral. 7. Slow Food. 8. Octomom. 9. Greenwashing. 10. Sexting. 11. Shovel ready. 12. Defriend. 13. Chengguan. 14. Recessionista. 15. Zombie Banks.\n\nCritics noted that the target date had been changed a number of times from late in 2006 to early in 2009. It was also criticized on grounds that a count is impossible because \"word\" is not a scientifically valid concept. Google addressed this situation by counting the words in the 15 million scanned texts in their corpus. Global Language Monitor states the general criteria for inclusion on its site, maintaining that it is simply updating the established criteria for printed dictionaries beginning with the works of Samuel Johnson and Noah Webster.\n\nThe New York Times quoted Paul JJ Payack as saying that the PQI is \"an algorithm that tracks words and phrases in the media and on the Internet in relation to frequency, context and appearance in global media. It is a weighted index that takes into account year-to-year increases and acceleration in the last several months\". In general terms, GLM describes its Predictive Quantities Indicator (PQI), used to run its analytics on global language trends and, as a weighted index, factoring in long-term trends, short-term changes, momentum and velocity, using frequency data on words and phrases in the global print and electronic media, on the Internet, and throughout the blogosphere, as well as in proprietary databases (Factiva, Lexis-Nexis, etc.). It can also create \"signals\" that can be used in a variety of applications.\n\nOn 20 February 2008 GLM announced that the latest word to enter the English language was \"obama\", derived from Barack Obama, in its many variations. GLM described Obama- as a \"root\" for words including obamanomics, obamican, obamamentum, obamacize, obamarama, obamaNation, Obamafy, obamamania and obamacam. GLM announced it to be an accepted word, once it met the group's published criteria: a minimum of 25,000 citations in the global media, as well as achieving the necessary 'breadth' and 'depth' of citations.\n\nThe Global Language Monitor publishes other lists relating to the English language including: the TrendTopper MediaBuzz College Guide rankings of the top 425 U.S. colleges and universities according to their internet brand equity.\n\nTop Universities (January 2016): \nRank/University/Previous Ranking\n\nTop Universities Last\n\n\nRank/College/Previous Ranking\n\n\n\nand 15 Top All-Time Bushisms, and many others.\n\n"}
{"id": "31497818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31497818", "title": "Golden Age", "text": "Golden Age\n\nThe term Golden Age comes from Greek mythology, particularly the \"Works and Days\" of Hesiod, and is part of the description of temporal decline of the state of peoples through five Ages, Gold being the first and the one during which the Golden Race of humanity ( \"chrýseon génos\") lived. Those living in the first Age were ruled by Kronos, after the finish of the first age was the Silver, then the Bronze, after this the Heroic age, with the fifth and current age being Iron.\n\nBy extension \"Golden Age\" denotes a period of primordial peace, harmony, stability, and prosperity. During this age peace and harmony prevailed, people did not have to work to feed themselves, for the earth provided food in abundance. They lived to a very old age with a youthful appearance, eventually dying peacefully, with spirits living on as \"guardians\". Plato in \"Cratylus\" (397 e) recounts the golden race of humans who came first. He clarifies that Hesiod did not mean literally made of gold, but good and noble.\n\nIn classical Greek mythology the Golden Age was presided over by the leading Titan Cronus. In some version of the myth Astraea also ruled. She lived with men until the end of the Silver Age, but in the Bronze Age, when men became violent and greedy, fled to the stars, where she appears as the constellation Virgo, holding the scales of Justice, or Libra.\n\nEuropean pastoral literary tradition often depicted nymphs and shepherds as living a life of rustic innocence and peace, set in Arcadia, a region of Greece that was the abode and center of worship of their tutelary deity, goat-footed Pan, who dwelt among them.\n\nThe earliest attested reference to the European myth of the Ages of Man 500 BCE–350 BCE appears in the late 6th century BCE works of the Greek poet Hesiod's \"Works and Days\" (109–126). Hesiod, a deteriorationist, identifies the Golden Age, the Silver Age, the Bronze Age, the Heroic Age, and the Iron Age. With the exception of the Heroic Age, each succeeding age was worse than the one that went before. Hesiod maintains that during the Golden Age, before the invention of the arts, the earth produced food in such abundance that there was no need for agriculture:\n\n[Men] lived like gods without sorrow of heart, remote and free from toil and grief: miserable age rested not on them; but with legs and arms never failing they made merry with feasting beyond the reach of all devils. When they died, it was as though they were overcome with sleep, and they had all good things; for the fruitful earth unforced bare them fruit abundantly and without stint. They dwelt in ease and peace.\n\nPlato in his \"Cratylus\" referred to an age of golden men and also at some length on Ages of Man from Hesiod's \"Works and Days\". The Roman poet Ovid simplified the concept by reducing the number of Ages to four: Gold, Bronze, Silver, and Iron. Ovid's poetry, known to schoolboys from Antiquity through the Middle Ages and beyond, was likely a prime source for the transmission of the myth of the Golden Age during the period when Western Europe had lost direct contact with Greek literature.\n\nIn Hesiod's version, the Golden Age ended when the Titan Prometheus conferred on mankind the gift of fire and all the other arts. For this, Zeus punished Prometheus by chaining him to a rock in the Caucasus, where an eagle eternally ate at his liver. The gods sent the beautiful maiden Pandora to Prometheus's brother Epimetheus. The gods had entrusted Pandora with a box that she was forbidden to open; however, her uncontrollable curiosity got the better of her and she opened the box, thereby unleashing all manner of evil into the world.\n\nThe Orphic school, a mystery cult that originated in Thrace and spread to Greece in the 5th century BCE, held similar beliefs about the early days of man, likewise denominating the ages with metals. In common with the many other mystery cults prevalent in the Graeco-Roman world (and their Indo-European religious antecedents), the world view of Orphism was cyclical. Initiation into its secret rites, together with ascetic practices, was supposed to guarantee the individual's soul eventual release from the grievous circle of mortality and also communion with god(s). Orphics sometimes identified the Golden Age with the era of the god Phanes, who was regent over the Olympus before Cronus. In classical mythology however, the Golden Age was associated with the reign of Saturn. In the 5th century BCE, the philosopher Empedocles, like Hesiod before him, emphasized the idea of primordial innocence and harmony in all of nature, including human society, from which he maintained there had been a steady deterioration until the present.\n\nA tradition arose in Greece that the site of the original Golden Age had been Arcadia, an impoverished rural area of Greece where the herdsmen still lived on acorns and where the goat-footed god Pan had his home among the poplars on Mount Maenalus. However, in the 3rd century BCE, the Greek poet, Theocritus, writing in Alexandria, set his pastoral poetry in on the lushly fertile island of Sicily, where he had been born. The protagonist of Theocritus's first Idyll, the goat herder, Daphnis, is taught to play the Syrinx (panpipes) by Pan himself. \n\nWriting in Latin during the turbulent period of revolutionary change at the end of the Roman Republic (roughly between 44 and 38 BCE), the poet Virgil moved the setting for his pastoral imitations of Theocritus back to an idealized Arcadia in Greece, thus initiating a rich and resonant tradition in subsequent European literature.\n\nVirgil, moreover, introduced into his poetry the element of political allegory, which had been largely absent in Theocritus, even intimating in his fourth Eclogue that a new Golden Age of peace and justice was about to return:\n<poem>\"Ultima Cumaei venit iam carminis aetas;\n\"magnus ab integro saeclorum nascitur ordo:\n\"iam redit et Virgo, redeunt Saturnia regna;\n\"iam nova progenies caelo demittitur alto.\"</poem>\n<poem>Translation:\n\"Now the last age by Cumae's Sibyl sung\n\"Has come and gone, and the majestic roll\n\"Of circling centuries begins anew:\n\"Astraea returns,\n\"Returns old Saturn's reign,\n\"With a new breed of men sent down from heaven.\"</poem>\n\nSomewhat later, shortly before he wrote his epic poem the \"Aeneid\", which dealt with the establishment of Roman Imperial rule, Virgil composed his \"Georgics\" (29 BCE), modeled directly on Hesiod's \"Works and Days\" and similar Greek works. Ostensibly about agriculture, the \"Georgics\" are in fact a complex allegory about how man's alterations of nature (through works) are related to good and bad government. Although Virgil does not mention the Golden Age by name in the \"Georgics\", he does refer in them to a time of primitive communism before the reign of Jupiter, when:\n<poem>\n\"Fields knew no taming hand of husbandmen\n\"To mark the plain or mete with boundary-line.\n\"Even this was impious; for the common stock\n\"They gathered, and the earth of her own will\n\"All things more freely, no man bidding, bore.\"</poem>\n<poem>\n\"ante Iouem nulli subigebant arua coloni\n\"ne signare quidem aut partiri limite campum\n\"fas erat; in medium quaerebant, ipsaque tellus\n\"omnia liberius nullo poscente ferebat.\" (\"Georgics\", Book 1: 125–28)</poem>\n\nThis view, which identifies a State of Nature with the celestial harmony of which man's nature is (or should be, if properly regulated) a microcosm, reflects the Hellenistic cosmology that prevailed among literate classes of Virgil's era. It is seen again in Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\" (7 CE), in which the lost Golden Age is depicted as a place and time when, because nature and reason were harmoniously aligned, men were naturally good:\n<poem>\n\"The Golden Age was first; when Man, yet new,\n\"No rule but uncorrupted Reason knew:\n\"And, with a native bent, did good pursue.\n\"Unforc'd by punishment, un-aw'd by fear.\"\n\"His words were simple, and his soul sincere;\n\"Needless was written law, where none opprest:\n\"The law of Man was written in his breast.\"</poem>\n\nThe Graeco-Roman concept of the \"natural man\" delineated by Ovid and many other classical writers, was especially popular during the Deistically inclined 18th century. It is often erroneously attributed to Rousseau, who did not share it.\n\nIn his famous essay, \"Et in Arcadia ego: Poussin and the Elegiac Tradition\", Erwin Panofsky remarks how in ancient times, \"that particular not overly opulent, region of central Greece, Arcady, came to be universally accepted as an ideal realm of perfect bliss and beauty, a dream incarnate of ineffable happiness, surrounded nevertheless with a halo of 'sweetly sad' melancholy\":\nThere had been, from the beginning of classical speculation, two contrasting opinions about the natural state of man, each of them, of course, a \"Gegen-Konstruktion\" to the conditions under which it was formed. One view, termed \"soft\" primitivism in an illuminating book by Lovejoy and Boas conceives of primitive life as a golden age of plenty, innocence, and happiness—in other words, as civilized life purged of its vices. The other, \"hard\" form of primitivism conceives of primitive life as an almost subhuman existence full of terrible hardships and devoid of all comforts—in other words, as civilized life stripped of its virtues.\n\nArcady, as we encounter it in all modern literature, and as we refer to it in our daily speech, falls under the heading of “soft\" or golden-age primitivism. To be sure, this real Arcady was the domain of Pan, who could be heard playing the syrinx on Mount Maenalus; and its inhabitants were famous for their musical accomplishments as well as for their ancient lineage, rugged virtue, and rustic hospitality.\n\nThere are analogous concepts in the religious and philosophical traditions of the South Asian subcontinent. For example, the Vedic or ancient Hindu culture saw history as cyclical, composed of yugas with alternating Dark and Golden Ages. The Kali yuga (Iron Age), Dwapara yuga (Bronze Age), Treta yuga (Silver Age) and Satya yuga (Golden Age) correspond to the four Greek ages. Similar beliefs occur in the ancient Middle East and throughout the ancient world, as well.\n\nThe Indian teachings differentiate the four world ages (Yugas) not according to metals, but according to quality with Truth being the defining feature of the Golden Age. After the world fall at the end of the fourth, worst age (the Kali yuga) named after the Messianic figure Kali, the cycle should be continued, eventually culminating in a new golden age.\n\nThe Krita Yuga also known as the Satya yuga, the First and Perfect Age, as described in the Mahabharata, a Hindu epic: Men neither bought nor sold; there were no poor and no rich; there was no need to labour, because all that men required was obtained by the power of will; the chief virtue was the abandonment of all worldly desires. The \"Krita Yuga\" was without disease; there was no lessening with the years; there was no hatred or vanity, or evil thought whatsoever; no sorrow, no fear. All mankind could attain to supreme blessedness.\n\nSatya Yuga lasts for 1,728,000 years, Treta Yuga 1,296,000 years, Dvapara Yuga 864,000 years and Kali Yuga 432,000 years. According to the Puranas there are 71 such cycles in a life of Manu whose life duration is 306.72 million years. The reign of fourteen Manus (4.32 billion years) comprises one day (Kalpa) of Brahma.\nKnowledge, meditation, and communion with Spirit hold special importance in this era. The average life expectancy of a human being in Satya Yuga is believed to be about 100,000 years. That duration of life declines in next age, Treta Yuga to 10,000 years, followed by Dvapara Yuga 1 000 years and Kali Yuga up to 100 years. During Satya Yuga, most people engage only in good, sublime deeds and mankind lives in harmony with the earth. Ashrams become devoid of wickedness and deceit. Natyam (such as Bharatanatyam), according to Natya Shastra, did not exist in the Satya Yuga \"because it was the time when all people were happy\".\n\nThe Brahma Kumaris and Prajapita Brahma Kumaris make reference to five yuga in a single cycle of 5,000 years in which the Golden Age, or Satya yuga, is the first and lasts for 1,250 years. Three of the remaining four; Thretha Yuga (Silver Age), Dwarpar Yuga (Copper Age) and Kali Yuga (Iron Age), also last for 1,250 years each. The fifth age, Sangum Yuga (Confluence Age), is given to the last 100 years of the fourth age and represents the period when the Iron Age is destroyed and the next Golden Age is created.The World Drama is the story of the rise and fall of human souls during their sojourn in this world. It is about the interplay of souls, matter and God, and of the different stages through which human souls pass in five different epochs or acts of this drama.The drama begins with the Golden Age, when every soul expresses its original qualities of purity, peace, love and truth, and human relationships are marked by complete harmony. The virtuous nature of these divine beings is mirrored by nature, which is in its pristine state and serves humans with abundance. This is the time remembered as heaven or paradise by humanity.\n\nGolden age is the time when the human beings are full of all the divine virtues and have all the seven qualities peace, purity, love, wisdom, happiness, power and bliss to the fullest. And henceforth they are called deities, that we remember them as were our ancestors and whose divinity is worshiped in Hindu temples. The silver age comes after golden age where as time goes by, the souls, who are the actors in this drama, undergo a gradual decline. By Act Two, the number of souls has increased significantly, and though all are still happy and prosperous, the radiance and fullness that characterized their lives is no more.\n\nRajayoga Mediation taught at the Brahma Kumaris are the way to revive the seven qualities within and awaken self true divinity, the souls of Satyuga AKA Golden Age has.\n\nMeditation energizes your awareness, bringing both peace and wisdom to a busy mind. It expands one’s capacity to love, and heals broken hearts. It also dissolves many fears, replacing them with lightness and freedom from anxiety.\n\nBut perhaps the greatest gift that meditation brings is the glow of inner peace that is both gentle and strong.\n\nPractice of Rajyoga meditation or intellectual communion with God brings into the soul many powers. Of these, eight are important.The Eight Powers.\n\nThe Old Norse word \"gullaldr\" (literally \"Golden Age\") was used in Völuspá to describe the period after Ragnarök, where the surviving gods and their progeny build the city Gimlé on the ruins of Asgard. In this period, Baldr reigns.\n\nThere is a reference to a succession of kingdoms in Nebuchadnezzar's dream in Daniel 2, in decreasing order identified as gold, silver, bronze, iron and finally mixed iron and clay.\n\nThe interpretation of the dream follows in verses 36–45.\n\nIn modern fantasy worlds, whose background and setting sometimes draw heavily on real-world myths, similar or compatible concepts of a Golden Age exist in the said world's prehistory; when deities or elf-like creatures existed, before the coming of humans.\n\nFor example, in \"The Silmarillion\" by J. R. R. Tolkien, a Golden Age exists in Middle-earth legendarium. Arda (the part of the world where \"The Lord of the Rings\" is set), was designed to be symmetrical and perfect. After the wars of the Gods, Arda lost its perfect shape (known as Arda Unmarred) and was called Arda Marred. Another kind of 'Golden Age' follows later, after the Elves awoke; the Eldar stay on Valinor, live with the Valar and advance in arts and knowledge, until the rebellion and the fall of the Noldor, reminiscent of the Fall of Man. Eventually, after the end of the world, the Silmarilli will be recovered and the light of the Two Trees of Valinor rekindled. Arda will be remade again as Arda Healed.\n\nIn \"The Wheel of Time\" universe, the \"Age of Legends\" is the name given to the previous Age: In this society, channelers were common and Aes Sedai – trained channelers – were extremely powerful, able to make \"angreal\", \"sa'angreal\", and \"ter'angreal\", and holding important civic positions. The Age of Legends is seen as a utopian society without war or crime, and devoted to culture and learning. Aes Sedai were frequently devoted to academic endeavours, one of which inadvertently resulted in a hole – The Bore – being drilled in the Dark One's prison. The immediate effects were not realised, but the Dark One gradually asserted power over humanity, swaying many to become his followers. This resulted in the War of Power and eventually the Breaking of the World.\n\nAnother example is in the background of the \"Lands of Lore\" classic computer game, where the history of the Lands is divided in Ages. One of them is also called the Golden Age, a time when the Lands were ruled by the 'Ancients', and there were no wars. This age ended with the 'War of the Heretics'.\n\nThe Golden Age may also refer to a state of early childhood. Herbert Spencer argued that young children progress through the cognitive stages of evolution of the human species and of human civilization, thereby linking pre-civilization and infancy. Kenneth Grahame called his evocation of early childhood \"The Golden Age\" and J. M. Barrie's fictional character Peter Pan, who first appeared in \"The Little White Bird\" was named after \"Pan\", a Greek god from the Golden Age. Barrie's further works about Peter Pan depict early childhood as a time of pre-civilised naturalness and happiness, which is destroyed by the subsequent process of education.\n\nThe term \"Golden Age\" is at present frequently used in the context of various fields, such as the \"Spanish Golden Age\", \"Dutch Golden Age\", \"Golden age of alpinism\", \"Golden Age of American animation\", \"Golden Age of Comics\", \"Golden Age of Science Fiction\", \"Golden Age of Television\", \"Golden Age of Hollywood\", \"Golden age of arcade video games\", \"Golden Age of Radio\", \"Golden Age of Hip Hop\" and even \"Golden Age of Piracy\" or \"Golden Age of Porn\". Usually, the term \"Golden Age\" is bestowed retroactively, when the period in question has ended and is compared with what followed in the specific field discussed.\n\n"}
{"id": "19860141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19860141", "title": "Graduate School of North American Studies", "text": "Graduate School of North American Studies\n\nThe Berlin Graduate School of North American Studies (GSNAS) is affiliated with the John F. Kennedy Institute for North American Studies at the Free University Berlin. It was distinguished by the German Universities Excellence Initiative in 2006, a nationwide competition carried out by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research, together with the German Research Foundation. The GSNAS was officially opened by the former German minister for foreign affairs, Joschka Fischer, in November 2007. Speakers of the Graduate School of North American Studies are Prof. Dr. Ulla Haselstein and Prof. Dr. Winfried Fluck.\n\nBy combining closely supervised doctoral education with excellent theoretical and methodological research training, the Graduate School of North American Studies enables its doctoral candidates to complete outstanding dissertations within a period of three years, and prepares them for a career in universities, research institutions, other science-related organizations, think tanks, scientific journalism etc. \nUnder the overall research concept “The Challenges of Freedom”, the Graduate School of North American Studies focuses on the social, economic, and cultural changes in the North American Societies at the beginning of the 21st century in a comprehensive and interdisciplinary way.\n\n\nThe program is aimed at doctoral candidates who intend to write a dissertation in one of the following disciplines: Cultural and Literary Studies, History, Political Science, Sociology, or Economics. In interdisciplinary seminars, students acquire comprehensive knowledge of the historical, social, cultural, and economic changes facing North America in the first quarter of the new century. In-depth theoretical and methodological training is provided in disciplinary seminars. As a third module, courses on professional skills (advanced academic writing, management, presentation, didactic skills) are obligatory. The language of instruction is English.\n\nThe extensive Visiting Professor-Program of the Graduate School allows its students to intensively discuss their ideas and projects with internationally renowned scholars like José Casanova (Georgetown University), Tyler Cowen (George Mason University), Jack P. Greene (Brown University), David Harvey (City University of New York), Akira Iriye (Harvard), Jackson Lears (Rutgers University), Donald E. Pease (Dartmouth College), Carla Peterson (University of Maryland) und Hayden White (Stanford University).\n\nThe Graduate School of North American Studies cooperates with the American Studies Programs of the following universities and colleges in North America: Brown University, Dartmouth College, Harvard University, Stanford University, University of California at Berkeley, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and Yale University. It also cooperates with University College Dublin. In addition, partnerships exist with the Hertie School of Governance (Berlin), the American Academy in Berlin (Berlin), the Canadian Universities Centre (Berlin), the German Council on Foreign Relations (DGAP), the German Institute for Economic Research, the German Institute for International and Security Affairs, the Fritz Thyssen Foundation and the Terra Foundation.\n\nThe annual deadline for applications is January 31. For further information on the application procedure, please see www.gsnas.fu-berlin.de\n\n\nFree University Berlin\n"}
{"id": "12205667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12205667", "title": "Gruber Prize for Justice", "text": "Gruber Prize for Justice\n\nThe Gruber Prize for Justice, established in 2001, was one of five international prizes worth US$500,000 awarded by The Peter and Patricia Gruber Foundation, an American non-profit organization.\n\nRecipients were selected by a distinguished panel of international legal experts from nominations received from around the world.\n\nThe Gruber Foundation Justice Prize was presented to individuals or organizations for contributions that have advanced the cause of justice as delivered through the legal system. The award was intended to acknowledge individual efforts, as well as to encourage further advancements in the field and progress toward bringing about a fundamentally just world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "951940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=951940", "title": "History of archaeology", "text": "History of archaeology\n\nArchaeology is the study of human activity in the past, primarily through the recovery and analysis of the material culture and environmental data that they have left behind, which includes artifacts, architecture, biofacts (also known as eco-facts) and cultural landscapes (the archaeological record).\n\nThe development of the field of archaeology has it roots with history and with those who were interested in the past, such as kings who wanted to show past glories of their respective nations. The 5th-century-BCE Greek historian Herodotus was the first scholar to systematically study the past and perhaps the first to examine artifacts. In the Song Empire (960–1279) of Imperial China, Chinese scholar-officials unearthed, studied, and cataloged ancient artifacts. The 15th and 16th centuries saw the rise of antiquarians in Renaissance Europe who were interested in the collection of artifacts. The antiquarian movement shifted into nationalism as personal collections turned into national museums. It evolved into a much more systematic discipline in the late 19th century and became a widely used tool for historical and anthropological research in the 20th century. During this time there were also significant advances in the technology used in the field.\n\nArchaeology had its start in the European study of history and in people who were interested in the past. King Nabonidus (556–539 BCE), the last king of the Neo-Babylonian Empire, was interested in the past so he could align himself with past glories. He led a revitalization movement and rebuilt ancient temples.\nEarly systemic investigation and historiography can be traced back to the Greek historian Herodotus (c. 484–c. 425 BCE). He was the first western scholar to systematically collect artifacts and test their accuracy. He was also the first to make a compelling narrative of the past. He is known for a set of nine books called the \"Histories\", in which he wrote everything he could learn about different regions. He discussed the causes and consequences of the Greco-Persian Wars. He also explored the Nile and Delphi. However, scholars have found errors in his records and believe he probably did not go as far down the Nile as he claimed.\n\nArchaeology later concerned itself with the antiquarianism movement. Antiquarians studied history with particular attention to ancient artifacts and manuscripts, as well as historical sites. They usually were wealthy people. They collected artifacts and displayed them in cabinets of curios. Antiquarianism also focused on the empirical evidence that existed for the understanding of the past, encapsulated in the motto of the 18th-century antiquary Sir Richard Colt Hoare, \"We speak from facts not theory\". Tentative steps towards the systematization of archaeology as a science took place during the Enlightenment era in Europe in the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nDuring the Song Dynasty period (960–1279) in China, educated gentry became interested in the antiquarian pursuit of art collecting. Neo-Confucian scholar-officials were generally concerned with archaeological pursuits in order to revive the use of ancient Shang, Zhou, and Han relics in state rituals. This attitude was criticized by the polymath official Shen Kuo in his \"Dream Pool Essays\" of 1088. He endorsed the idea that materials, technologies, and objects of antiquity should be studied for their functionality and for the discovery of ancient manufacturing techniques. Although a distinct minority, there were others who took the discipline as seriously as Shen did. For instance, the official, historian, poet, and essayist Ouyang Xiu (1007–1072) compiled an analytical catalogue of ancient rubbings on stone and bronze. Zhao Mingcheng (1081–1129) stressed the importance of using ancient inscriptions to correct discrepancies and errors in later historical texts discussing ancient events. Native Chinese antiquarian studies waned during the Yuan (1279–1368) and Ming (1368–1644) dynasties, were revived during the Qing dynasty (1644–1912), but never developed into a systematic discipline of archaeology outside of Chinese historiography.\n\nIn Europe, interest in the remains of Greco-Roman civilisation and the rediscovery of classical culture began in the Late Middle Ages. Despite the importance of antiquarian writing in the literature of ancient Rome, such as Livy's discussion of ancient monuments, scholars generally view antiquarianism as emerging only in the Middle Ages. Flavio Biondo, an Italian Renaissance humanist historian, created a systematic guide to the ruins and topography of ancient Rome in the early 15th century, for which he has been called an early founder of archaeology. The itinerant scholar Ciriaco de' Pizzicolli or Cyriacus of Ancona (1391–c.1455) also traveled throughout Greece to record his findings on ancient buildings and objects. Ciriaco traveled all around the Eastern Mediterranean, noting his archaeological discoveries in a day-book, \"Commentaria\", that eventually filled six volumes.\n\nAntiquarians including John Leland and William Camden conducted surveys of the English countryside, drawing, describing and interpreting the monuments that they encountered. These individuals were frequently clergymen: many vicars recorded local landmarks within their parishes, details of the landscape and ancient monuments such as standing stones—even if they did not always understand the significance of what they were seeing.\n\nIn the late 18th to 19th century archaeology became a national endeavor as personal cabinets of curios turned into national museums. People were now being hired to go out and collect artifacts to make a nation's collection more grand and to show how far a nation's reach extends. For example, Giovanni Battista Belzoni was hired by Henry Salt, the British consul to Egypt, to gather antiquities for Britain. In nineteenth-century Mexico, the expansion of the National Museum of Anthropology and the excavation of major archeological ruins by Leopoldo Batres were part of the liberal regime of Porfirio Díaz to create a glorious image of Mexico's pre-Hispanic past.\n\nAmong the first sites to undergo archaeological excavation were Stonehenge and other megalithic monuments in England. The first known excavations made at Stonehenge were conducted by William Harvey and Gilbert North in the early 17th century. Both Inigo Jones and the Duke of Buckingham also dug there shortly afterwards. John Aubrey was a pioneer archaeologist who recorded numerous megalithic and other field monuments in southern England. He also mapped the Avebury henge monument. He wrote \"Monumenta Britannica\" in the late 17th century as a survey of early urban and military sites, including Roman towns, \"camps\" (hillforts), and castles, and a review of archaeological remains, including sepulchral monuments, roads, coins and urns. He was also ahead of his time in the analysis of his findings. He attempted to chart the chronological stylistic evolution of handwriting, medieval architecture, costume, and shield shapes.\n\nWilliam Stukeley was another antiquarian who contributed to the early development of archaeology in the early 18th century. He also investigated the prehistoric monuments of Stonehenge and Avebury, work for which he has been remembered as \"probably... the most important of the early forerunners of the discipline of archaeology\". He was one of the first to attempt to date the megaliths, arguing that they were a remnant of the pre-Roman druidic religion.\nExcavations were carried out in the ancient towns of Pompeii and Herculaneum, both of which had been covered by ashes during the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in the year 79. These excavations began in 1748 in Pompeii, while in Herculaneum they began in 1738 under the auspices of King Charles VII of Naples. In Herculaneum, the Theatre, the Basilica and the Villa of the Papyri were discovered in 1768. The discovery of entire towns, complete with utensils and even human shapes, as well the unearthing of ancient frescos, had much impact throughout Europe.\n\nA very influential figure in the development of the theoretical and systematic study of the past through its physical remains was \"the prophet and founding hero of modern archaeology,\" Johann Joachim Winckelmann. Winckelmann was a founder of scientific archaeology by first applying empirical categories of style on a large, systematic basis to the classical (Greek and Roman) history of art and architecture. His original approach was based on detailed empirical examinations of artefacts from which reasoned conclusions could be drawn and theories developed about ancient societies.\n\nIn America, Thomas Jefferson, possibly inspired by his experiences in Europe, supervised the systematic excavation of a Native American burial mound on his land in Virginia in 1784. Although Jefferson's investigative methods were ahead of his time, they were primitive by today's standards.\nNapoleon's army carried out excavations during its Egyptian campaign, in 1798–1801, which also was the first major overseas archaeological expedition. The emperor took with him a force of 500 civilian scientists, specialists in fields such as biology, chemistry and languages, in order to carry out a full study of the ancient civilisation. The work of Jean-François Champollion in deciphering the Rosetta stone to discover the hidden meaning of hieroglyphics proved the key to the study of Egyptology.\n\nHowever, prior to the development of modern techniques excavations tended to be haphazard; the importance of concepts such as stratification and context were completely overlooked. For instance, in 1803, there was widespread criticism of Thomas Bruce, 7th Earl of Elgin for removing the Elgin Marbles from the Parthenon in Athens. The marble sculptures themselves, however, were valued by his critics only for their aesthetic qualities, not for the information they contained about Ancient Greek civilization.\n\nIn the first half of the 19th century many other archaeological expeditions were organized; Giovanni Battista Belzoni and Henry Salt collected Ancient Egyptian artifacts for the British Museum, Paul Émile Botta excavated the palace of Assyrian ruler Sargon II, Austen Henry Layard unearthed the ruins of Babylon and Nimrud and discovered the Library of Ashurbanipal and Robert Koldeway and Karl Richard Lepsius excavated sites in the Middle East. However, the methodology was still poor, and the digging was aimed at the discovery of artefacts and monuments.\n\nThe father of archaeological excavation was William Cunnington (1754–1810). He undertook excavations in Wiltshire from around 1798, in collaboration with his regular excavators Stephen and John Parker of Heytesbury. Cunnington's work was funded by a number of patrons, the wealthiest of whom was Richard Colt Hoare, who had inherited the Stourhead estate from his grandfather in 1785. Hoare turned his attention to antiquarian pursuits and began funding Cunnington's excavations in 1804. The latter's site reports and descriptions were published by Hoare in a book entitled Ancient Historie of Wiltshire in 1810, a copy of which is kept at Stourhead.\n\nCunnington made meticulous recordings of mainly neolithic and Bronze Age barrows, and the terms he used to categorise and describe them are still used by archaeologists today. The first reference to the use of a trowel on an archaeological site was made in a letter from Cunnington to Hoare in 1808, which describes John Parker using one in the excavation of Bush Barrow.\n\nOne of the major achievements of 19th century archaeology was the development of stratigraphy. The idea of overlapping strata tracing back to successive periods was borrowed from the new geological and palaeontological work of scholars like William Smith, James Hutton and Charles Lyell. The application of stratigraphy to archaeology first took place with the excavations of prehistorical and Bronze Age sites. In the third and fourth decade of the 19th century, archaeologists like Jacques Boucher de Perthes and Christian Jürgensen Thomsen began to put the artifacts they had found in chronological order.\n\nAnother important development was the idea of deep time. Before this, people had the notion that the earth was quite young. James Ussher used the Old Testament and calculated that the origins of the world were on 23 October 4004 BC (A Sunday). Later Jacques Boucher de Perthes (1788-1868) established a much deeper sense of time in \"Antiquités celtiques et antédiluviennes\" (1847).\n\nAs late as the mid-century, archaeology was still regarded as an amateur pastime by scholars. Britain's large colonial empire provided a great opportunity for such 'amateurs' to unearth and study the antiquities of many other cultures. A major figure in the development of archaeology into a rigorous science was the army officer and ethnologist, Augustus Pitt Rivers.\n\nIn 1880, he began excavations on lands that came to him in inheritance and which contained a wealth of archaeological material from the Roman and Saxon periods. He excavated these over seventeen seasons, beginning in the mid-1880s and ending with his death. His approach was highly methodical by the standards of the time, and he is widely regarded as the first scientific archaeologist. Influenced by the evolutionary writings of Charles Darwin and Herbert Spencer, he arranged the artefacts typologically and (within types) chronologically. This style of arrangement, designed to highlight the evolutionary trends in human artefacts, was a revolutionary innovation in museum design, and was of enormous significance for the accurate dating of the objects. His most important methodological innovation was his insistence that \"all\" artefacts, not just beautiful or unique ones, be collected and catalogued. This focus on everyday objects as the key to understanding the past broke decisively with past archaeological practice, which had often verged on treasure hunting.\nWilliam Flinders Petrie is another man who may legitimately be called the Father of Archaeology. Petrie was the first to scientifically investigate the Great Pyramid in Egypt during the 1880s. Many theories as to how the pyramids had been constructed had been proposed (such as by Charles Piazzi Smyth), but Petrie's exemplary analysis of the architecture of Giza disproved these theories and still provides much of the basic data regarding the pyramid plateau to this day.\nHis painstaking recording and study of artefacts, both in Egypt and later in Palestine, laid down many of the ideas behind modern archaeological recording; he remarked that \"I believe the true line of research lies in the noting and comparison of the smallest details.\" Petrie developed the system of dating layers based on pottery and ceramic findings, which revolutionized the chronological basis of Egyptology. He was also responsible for mentoring and training a whole generation of Egyptologists, including Howard Carter, who went on to achieve fame with the discovery of the tomb of 14th-century BCE pharaoh Tutankhamun.\n\nThe first stratigraphic excavation to reach wide popularity with the public was that of Hissarlik, on the site of ancient Troy, carried out by Heinrich Schliemann, Frank Calvert, Wilhelm Dörpfeld and Carl Blegen in the 1870s. These scholars distinguished nine successive cities, from prehistory to the Hellenistic period. Their work has been criticized as rough and damaging — Kenneth W. Harl wrote that Schliemann's excavations were carried out with such rough methods that he did to Troy what the Greeks couldn't do in their times, destroying and levelling down the entire city walls to the ground.\n\nMeanwhile, the work of Sir Arthur Evans at Knossos in Crete revealed the ancient existence of an advanced civilisation. Many of the finds from this site were catalogued and brought to the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford, where they could be studied by classicists, while an attempt was made to reconstruct much of the original site. Although this was done in a manner that would be considered inappropriate today, it helped raise the profile of archaeology considerably.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49968582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49968582", "title": "Jaime Duque Park", "text": "Jaime Duque Park\n\nJaime Duque Park is a family-oriented amusement park located in the Tocancipá municipality of the Metropolitan Area of Bogotá, Colombia. The park contains the Jaime Duque Zoo, the Museum of Mankind, as well as replicas of several major locations and buildings from around the world. A monorail runs through the park to help get guests from one area to another.\n\nThe park also has an outdoor stage for live performances. Here, the park has hosted performances by musicians such as Kylie Minogue, Guns N' Roses, Jamiroquai, The Killers, David Guetta, Paulina Rubio and Evanescence.\n\nThe park first opened on February 27, 1983 and was founded by Jaime Duque Grisales, a personality of Colombian civil aviation and the first head of the Avianca airline pilots. He wanted to create a cultural and recreational space for the whole family, with the aim of generating profits to help institutions serving families.\n\nARC \"Córdoba\", a ship that was used during World War II, and an Avianca DC6 aircraft are on display.\n\nThe park contains replicas of the Taj Mahal in India, as well as replicas of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, including the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, the Lighthouse of Alexandria, the Temple of Artemis, and the Pyramids. It also has giant figures, including a large hand holding a globe, which is meant to represent the hand of God.\n\nThere is a relief map of Colombia on a scale of 1:25000, located near the aviary. There is also a map of the Caribbean Sea.\n\nThe park's zoo contains several birds and monkeys as well as species native to South America, such as the capybara.\n\nThis park was inaugurated in 1991. It is managed by Jaime Duque Park under technical and professional supervision from La Salle University. Wakatá is a unit dedicated to conservation activities and environmental education. It trains students from different professions in the study and management of wild species and serves to support environment by providing a foster home for animals that have been confiscated authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "45630203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45630203", "title": "Janet L. Jacobs", "text": "Janet L. Jacobs\n\nJanet Liebman Jacobs (born 1948) is an American sociologist specializing in gender and religion. Jacobs' research focuses on women, religion, ethnicity, genocide and the social psychology of gender. She has authored seven books, including \"Hidden Heritage: The Legacy of the Crypto-Jews\", for which she won the Distinguished Book Award from the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion, \"Memorializing the Holocaust: Gender, Genocide and Collective Memory\", and The Holocaust Across Generations: Trauma and its Inheritance Among Descendents of Survivors, for which she won the 2017 Outstanding Book Award from the American Sociological Association.\n\nJacobs is currently Professor of Sociology and of Women and Gender Studies at the University of Colorado, and she directs the University of Colorado Honors Program. She received her PhD from the University of Colorado in 1985.\n\nJacobs earned a BS in journalism in 1970, a Master of Public Administration degree in 1977, and a PhD in sociology at the University of Colorado in 1985. Jacobs is a tenured full professor in the Department of Sociology and professor of Women's Studies at the University of Colorado, Boulder. She served as the director of the Women's Studies Program at this institution in 1987-1988 and again during 1997-2000; she also served as director of the Farrand Academic Program from 2005-2011. Since 2014 Jacobs has directed the University of Colorado College of Arts and Sciences Honors Program. Jacobs chaired the committee and has supervised research for graduates of the University of Colorado, Boulder and has received Teaching Excellence Awards from the University of Colorado in 1985, 1992 and 2001.\n\n\n\n\nJanet Jacobs was awarded the 2017 Outstanding Book Award from the American Sociological Association Section on Peace, War and Social Conflict for her book \"The Holocaust Across Generations: Trauma and its Inheritance Among Descendants of Survivors\". In 2016 Janet Jacobs presented a lecture to the International Conference on Women and War in Yerevan, Armenia entitled \"Gender and the Intergenerational Transmission of Trauma: Family Narratives and the Construction of Identity Among Descendants of the Holocaust\". Jacobs also presented a lecture entitled \"Gender and Holocaust Memorialization\" at the Conference in Jewish and Gender Studies in honor of Debra Kaufman at Northeastern University in 2012. In 2011 Jacobs presented the Stanley L. Saxton Address \"Gender and Genocide: Collective Memory and Holocaust Memorials\" at the University of Dayton.\n\nJacobs in 2010 presented the Keynote Paul Hanley Furfey Lecture for the Association for the Sociology of Religion entitled \"Sacred Space and Collective Memory: Memorializing Genocide at Sites of Terror\". Jacobs was awarded the Hazel Barnes Prize at the University of Colorado in 2005. She was also awarded the Distinguished Book Award in 2003 from the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion for her Book \"Hidden Heritage: The Legacy of the Crypto-Jews.\" In 2000 Jacobs was awarded the Gender Scholar Award from the Association for the Sociology of Religion. She gave the 2005 Commencement Address at the University of Colorado. In 2012, Jacobs received the Distinguished Career Award from the American Sociological Association's Children and Youth section.\n\nJacobs has served on the Awards Committee (2013–15); Nominating Committee (2004–10 and 1994–96); and on the Executive Council (1997–98) for the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion and was the Annual Meeting Program Chair in 1990. Jacobs served as the editor for NYU Press Qualitative Study of Religion series. Jacobs has also served as a Referee for the \"American Sociological Review\"; \"Gender and Society\"; \"Journal of Contemporary Ethnography\"; \"Journal for Research on Adolescence\"; \"Signs: Journal of Women and Society\"; \"Social Problems\"; \"Sociology of Religion\" and was both Referee and on the Editorial Board (2003–12) for the \"Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion\". Jacobs has served as a Manuscript Consultant for the Columbia University Press; Oxford University Press; Duke University Press; University of Tennessee Press, University of California Press; and New York University Press. Professional Affiliations include the American Academy of Religion; American Sociological Association; Association for the Sociology of Religion; Society for the Scientific Study of Religion; and the International Visual Sociology Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43944762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43944762", "title": "Jole Bovio Marconi", "text": "Jole Bovio Marconi\n\nJole Bovio Marconi () (Rome, January 21, 1897 – Palermo, April 14, 1986) was an Italian archaeologist who graduated with a degree in the topography of ancient Rome from the Sapienza University of Rome and specialized at the Italian School of Archaeology at Athens. She married her colleague Pirro Marconi, whom she met in her studies in Athens.\n\nIn the 1920s she moved to Sicily, centering her work on its classical monuments. In 1939 she became the archaeological superintendent for western Sicily.\n\nShe devoted herself to writing some publications on the civilization of the Conca d'Oro ('Golden Valley'), the fertile plain among mountains where Sicily's capital city Palermo is situated, and of the Grotta del Vecchiuzzo in Madonie Regional Natural Park. She remained the director of the Archaeological Superintendency of Western Sicily from the 1930s to the 1960s. During World War II she took charge of moving the exhibits kept at Palermo's Regional Archeological Museum Antonio Salinas by personally relocating them to the convent of San Martino delle Scale in Monreale; in view of the great devastation that the museum suffered, this allowed them to save the greater part of the collection.\n\nAt the end of the war she was in charge of the museum's reconstruction and reorganization, so much so that if Antonio Salinas is the one who created the museum, Jole Bovio Marconi is considered the one who created it anew. She excavated and studied the Upper Paleolithic Grotta del Genovese on Levanzo in the Egadi Islands and Grotta dell'Addaura near Palermo (published in 1953). She was entrusted with the chair of prehistory at the University of Palermo, and she took charge of the restoration of the temple of Segesta. She planned and realized the anastylosis of Temple E in Selinunte. In 1963 she published the first paper on the late Neolithic to early Bronze Age Bell Beaker ware of Sicily, \"Sulla diffusione del vaso campaniforme in Sicilia\" (\"Kokalos\" 9, pp. 93–128). In recognition of this work, the archaeologists Jean Guilane, Sebastiano Tusa, and Primo Veneroso dedicated to her memory the paper \"La Sicile et l'Europe Campaniforme\" (Toulouse, 2009), with funds from the Collège de France.\n"}
{"id": "48333887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48333887", "title": "Karen Boyle", "text": "Karen Boyle\n\nKaren Elizabeth Boyle (born 22 October 1972), is Professor of Feminist Media Studies at the University of Strathclyde, previously she was professor of Feminist Studies at the University of Stirling, and before that was a lecturer in film and television studies at the University of Glasgow. She has published a number of articles on feminism, violence and pornography.\n\nBoyle sits on the editorial boards of both \"Feminist Media Studies\", and \"Sexualization, Media, and Society\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9795736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9795736", "title": "March Bandness", "text": "March Bandness\n\nMarch Bandness is a parody of the NCAA's annual National Men's Basketball Tournament. The term itself is a derivative of March Madness, a term often used in conjunction with the NCAA Tournament.\n\nMarch Bandness is a marketing tool employed by radio stations across the United States to promote listener interaction. There is no specific format other than it pits 64 recording artists against each other in the same style as the NCAA Tournament. \n\nThe choice of the bands may be arbitrary, or it could use a seeding system based on popularity with listeners, chart hits or a number of other parameters.\n\nThose rewarded in the process may also differ. In some cases, artists, particularly if the focus is on local music, reap the benefit, whereas in others, the listeners are competing for prizes.\n\nExamples (in order of longevity):\n\nSt. Louis Classic Rock's March Bandness Results (Classic Rock; 1995-1996 + 2002 to present)\n\nThe Buzz 94.7FM - Oklahoma City, OK (Modern Rock; 2003 to present)\n\nKSHE 94.7FM - St. Louis, MO (Classic Rock; 2004 to present)\n\nAtlanta Music Guide (local Battle of the Bands; 2005)\n\nWCSX 94.7FM - Detroit, MI (Classic Rock; 2005 to present)\n\n97 Rock- Buffalo, NY (Classic Rock; 2005 to present)\n"}
{"id": "12749070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12749070", "title": "Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics", "text": "Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics\n\nThe Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics (German: \"Max-Planck-Institut für Psycholinguistik\"; Dutch: \"Max Planck Instituut voor Psycholinguïstiek\") is a research institute situated on the campus of Radboud University Nijmegen located in Nijmegen, Gelderland, the Netherlands. Founded in 1980, it is the only institution in the world entirely dedicated to psycholinguistics, and is also one of only three among a total of 90 within the Max Planck Society to be located outside Germany. The Nijmegen-based institute currently occupies 5th position in the Ranking Web of World Research Centers among all Max Planck institutes (7th by size, 4th by visibility). It currently employs about 135 people.\n\nThe institute specializes in language comprehension, language production, language acquisition, language and genetics, and the relation between language and cognition. Its mission is to undertake basic research into the psychological, social and biological foundations of language. The goal is to understand how human minds and brains process language, how language interacts with other aspects of mind, and how to learn languages of quite different types. The MPI for Psycholinguistics is a globally recognized center of linguistics and presents with its international archive of endangered languages a significant contribution to the preservation of the common heritage of mankind. This archive is sponsored since 2000 by the Volkswagen Foundation and offers on the internet about 50 projects.\n\nThe MPI for Psycholinguistics has six primary organizational units:\nThe Language and Cognition Department, headed by Stephen C. Levinson, investigates the relationship between language, culture and general cognition, making use of the \"natural laboratory\" of language variation. In this way, the department brings the perspective of language diversity to bear on a range of central problems in the language sciences. It maintains over a dozen field sites around the world, where languages are described (often for the first time), field experiments conducted and extended corpora of natural language usage collected. In addition, the department is characterized by a diversity of methods, ranging from linguistic analysis and ethnography to developmental perspectives, from psycholinguistic experimentation to conversation analysis, from corpus statistics to brain imaging, and from phylogenetics to linguistic data mining.\n\nEstablished in October 2010, the Language and Genetics Department is headed by Simon E. Fisher. The department takes advantage of the latest innovations in molecular methods to discover how the human genome helps to build a language-ready brain. It aims to uncover the DNA variations which ultimately affect different facets of human communicative abilities, not only in children with language-related disorders but also in the general population. Crucially our work attempts to bridge the gaps between genes, brains, speech and language, by integrating molecular findings with data from other levels of analysis, including cell biology, experimental psychology and neuroimaging. In addition, it hopes to trace the evolutionary history and worldwide diversity of key genes, which may shed new light on language origins.\n\nThe Language Comprehension Department, headed by Anne Cutler, undertakes empirical investigation and computational modeling of the understanding of spoken language. Until 2009, the work within the department was largely divided between two research projects: decoding continuous speech and phonological learning for speech perception. From 2009 onwards, most of the work of the department goes into the project called Mechanisms and Representations in Comprehending Speech. This project focuses on core theoretical issues in speech comprehension such as on how episodic memories - such as hearing someone speak in an unfamiliar dialect - influence the speech perception system, or how is prior knowledge about one's language (phonotactic probabilities, lexical knowledge, frequent versus infrequent word combinations) used during perception.\n\nWhile still under reorganization, the Language Acquisition Department until September 2012 investigated processes of language acquisition and use in a broad perspective. The department combined attention to both first and second languages, researching production as well as comprehension of speakers of different ages and cultures, and the developmental relationship between language and cognition. The focus was on morpho-syntax, semantics and discourse structure. Headed by Wolfgang Klein, Language Acquisition previously launched three institute projects, namely, Information Structure in Language Acquisition, Categories in Language and Cognition and Multimodal Interaction. The Language Acquisition Department has reopened in 2016 heading by Caroline Rowland.\n\nThe Neurobiology of Language Department, headed by Peter Hagoort, focuses on the study of language production, language comprehension, and language acquisition from a cognitive neuroscience perspective. This includes using neuroimaging, behavioral and virtual reality techniques to investigate the language system and its neural underpinnings. Research facilities at the Max Planck Institute include a high-density electroencephalography (EEG) lab, a virtual reality laboratory and several behavioral laboratories. Having a part of the department stationed at the Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Centre for Cognitive Neuroimaging, it also has access to a whole-head 275 channel MEG system, MRI-scanners at 1.5, 3 and 7 Tesla, a TMS-lab, and several additional EEG laboratories.\n\nThe Psychology of Language Department, headed by Antje S. Meyer, identifies characteristics of the cognitive system that determine behavior in a broad range of linguistic tasks and the relationships between language production, comprehension, and learning via speaking, listening and cognition. The department also understands variability in adult language production and comprehension. Using various approaches, the Psychology of Language utilizes a combination of experimental and correlational work and inclusion of diverse samples of participants. With such methods, it has close links to the Language and Genetics and Neurobiology of Language departments.\n\nThis MPI research group, headed by Daniel Haun, investigates the social and cognitive foundations of human communication in infancy specifically on infants' developing social cognition and social motivation in relation to their emerging prelinguistic communication within social and cultural contexts. Their work is motivated by the idea that there is a psychological basis of human communication that develops ontogenetically prior to language and can be first expressed in gestures.\n\nStarted in 2009, the research group investigates language diversity and change as part of an integrated cultural evolutionary system. Headed by Michael Dunn, the group takes a modern evolutionary perspective, using computational tools from genetics and biology, and integrating probabilistic, quantified approaches to phylogenetics with rigorous tests of different models of the interaction between elements of language, contact and geography, and cultural variation.\n\nThe research group, headed by Robert D. Van Valin, Jr., tries to determine the role of information structure in explaining cross-linguistic differences in grammatical systems out of the idea that the interaction of pragmatics and grammar happens on several levels and differs from language to language. Another major task of the group is to investigate and re-evaluate the status of the information structure primitives (topic, focus, contrast, etc.) as cross-linguistically valid categories. To achieve this, the members of the group combine extensive corpus analysis of the data in their respective languages with production experiments; all findings are further cross-checked through standard information structure tests (question-answer pairs, aboutness tests, association with focus sensitive items).\n\n"}
{"id": "2101689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101689", "title": "Mime artist", "text": "Mime artist\n\nA mime or mime artist (from Greek μῖμος, \"mimos\", \"imitator, actor\") is a person who uses mime as a theatrical medium or as a performance art. Miming involves acting out a story through body motions, without the use of speech. In earlier times, in English, such a performer would typically be referred to as a mummer. Miming is distinguished from silent comedy, in which the artist is a seamless character in a film or sketch.\n\nJacques Copeau, strongly influenced by Commedia dell'arte and Japanese Noh theatre, used masks in the training of his actors. His pupil Étienne Decroux was highly influenced by this, started exploring and developing the possibilities of mime, and developed corporeal mime into a highly sculptural form, taking it outside the realms of naturalism. Jacques Lecoq contributed significantly to the development of mime and physical theatre with his training methods.\n\nThe performance of mime originates at its earliest in Ancient Greece; the name is taken from a single masked dancer called \"Pantomimus\", although performances were not necessarily silent. In Medieval Europe, early forms of mime such as mummer plays and later dumbshows evolved. In early nineteenth-century Paris, Jean-Gaspard Deburau solidified the many attributes that have come to be known in modern times—the silent figure in whiteface.\n\nThe first recorded mime was Telestēs in the play \"Seven Against Thebes\" by Aeschylus. Tragic mime was developed by Puladēs of Kilikia; comic mime was developed by Bathullos of Alexandria.\nMime (Mimius) was an aspect of Roman theatre from its earliest times, paralleling the Atellan farce in its improvisation (if without the latter’s stock characters). It gradually began to replace the Atellanae as interludes [embolium] or postscripts [exodium] on the main theatre stages; became the sole dramatic event at the Floralia in the second century BC; and in the following century received technical advances at the hands of Publius Syrus and Decimus Laberius.\n\nUnder the Empire mime became the predominant Roman drama, if with mixed fortunes under different emperors. Trajan banished mime artists; Caligula favored them; Marcus Aurelius made them priests of Apollo. Nero himself acted as a mime.\n\nThe mime was distinguished from other dramas by its absence of masks, and by the presence of female as well as male performers. Stock characters included the lead (or archimimus[a]), the stooge or stupidus, and the gigolo, or cultus adulter.\n\nWhile most of this article has treated mime as a constellation of related and historically linked Western theatre genres and performance techniques, analogous performances are evident in the theatrical traditions of other civilizations.\n\nClassical Indian musical theatre, although often erroneously labeled a \"dance,\" is a group of theatrical forms in which the performer presents a narrative via stylized gesture, an array of hand positions, and mime illusions to play different characters, actions, and landscapes. Recitation, music, and even percussive footwork sometimes accompany the performance. The Natya Shastra, an ancient treatise on theatre by Bharata Muni, mentions silent performance, or \"mukabhinaya\".\n\nIn Kathakali, stories from Indian epics are told with facial expressions, hand signals and body motions. Performances are accompanied by songs narrating the story while the actors act out the scene, followed by actor detailing without background support of narrative song.\n\nThe Japanese Noh tradition has greatly influenced many contemporary mime and theatre practitioners including Jacques Copeau and Jacques Lecoq because of its use of mask work and highly physical performance style.\n\nButoh, though often referred to as a dance form, has been adopted by various theatre practitioners as well.\n\nPrior to the work of Étienne Decroux there was no major treatise on the art of mime, and so any recreation of mime as performed prior to the twentieth century is largely conjecture, based on interpretation of diverse sources. However, the twentieth century also brought a new medium into widespread usage: the motion picture.\n\nThe restrictions of early motion picture technology meant that stories had to be told with minimal dialogue, which was largely restricted to intertitles. This often demanded a highly stylized form of physical acting largely derived from the stage. Thus, mime played an important role in films prior to advent of talkies (films with sound or speech). The mimetic style of film acting was used to great effect in German Expressionist film. \n\nSilent film comedians like Charlie Chaplin, Harold Lloyd, and Buster Keaton learned the craft of mime in the theatre, but through film, they would have a profound influence on mimes working in live theatre decades after their deaths. Indeed, Chaplin may be the best-documented mime in history.\n\nThe famous French comedian, writer, and director Jacques Tati achieved his initial popularity working as a mime, and indeed his later films had only minimal dialogue, relying instead on many subtle expertly choreographed visual gags. Tati, like Chaplin before him, would mime out the movements of every single character in his films and ask his actors to repeat them.\n\nMime has been performed on stage, with Marcel Marceau and his character \"Bip\" being the most famous. Mime is also a popular art form in street theatre and busking. Traditionally, these sorts of performances involve the actor/actress wearing tight black and white clothing with white facial makeup. However, contemporary mimes often perform without whiteface. Similarly, while traditional mimes have been completely silent, contemporary mimes, while refraining from speaking, sometimes employ vocal sounds when they perform. Mime acts are often comical, but some can be very serious.\n\nOn the stage, Mime Artist Nithor Mahbub from Bangladesh introduced the first practice of teaching through humor with group Mimo Drama troupe Mime Art. \n\nCanadian author Michael Jacot's first novel, \"The Last Butterfly\", tells the story of a mime artist in Nazi-occupied Europe who is forced by his oppressors to perform for a team of Red Cross observers. Nobel laureate Heinrich Böll's \"The Clown\" relates the downfall of a mime artist, Hans Schneir, who has descended into poverty and drunkenness after being abandoned by his beloved. Jacob Appel's Pushcart short-listed story, \"Coulrophobia\", depicts the tragedy of a landlord whose marriage slowly collapses after he rents a spare apartment to an intrusive mime artist.\n\n"}
{"id": "8281231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8281231", "title": "Monkey-ed Movies", "text": "Monkey-ed Movies\n\nMonkey-ed Movies is a series of short films broadcast on the Turner Broadcasting System in the late 1990s. The films parodied popular films or television programs that were currently being broadcast on TBS with the use of costumed chimpanzees and orangutans voiced by human actors.\n\nRay Richmond of \"Variety\" noted that \"Monkey-ed Movies\" \"proved to be clever stuff, in large part because it was short and sweet. It was just an irreverent little diversion made terrific by some dedicated training and impressive mimicry.\"\n\nThe idea for the series came from a five-minute pilot that originally aired on MTV. TBS ordered 48 segments to be produced which were run during \"Dinner and a Movie\" and in odd time slots after sporting events. However, one day when a golf tournament ran short, the station played about half an hour of \"Monkey'ed Movies\" to unexpected results. The ratings actually increased, which prompted TBS to order 13 episodes of an expanded half-hour series which would become \"The Chimp Channel\".\n\nThe American Humane Association's Film and Television Unit monitored the filming of \"Monkey-ed Movies\", and reported:\n\nIn 1999, TBS spun the popular \"Monkey-ed Movies\" series into a situation comedy entitled \"The Chimp Channel\". The series lasted only one season and met with negative reviews criticizing its attempt to expand the already effective \"Monkey-ed Movies\" concept. The series featured a segment called \"Movies on Film\" where two critics reviewed films from the \"Monkey-ed Movies\" library and gave a non-opposable thumbs up or down.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39883080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39883080", "title": "Natural and Cultural Heritage of the Ohrid Region (Albania)", "text": "Natural and Cultural Heritage of the Ohrid Region (Albania)\n\nThe Natural and Cultural Heritage of the Ohrid Region is a possible UNESCO site situated in Pogradec, Albania, around the country’s section of Lake Ohrid located in Albania.\nThe site was submitted as a possible UNESCO site by the \"Permanent Delegation of Albania to UNESCO\" on 5 September 2011, and has been placed on the tentative list. It has come under criteria II, IV, VII and IX.\n\nPogradec and the surrounding area on the shores of Lake Ohrid was first settled by Illyrians in the 5th century BC. Archaeological findings show an Illyrian settlement on a hill located north-west of Pogradec, which was fortified in the 4th century BC. \n\nBy the 3rd century BC, Roman forces had taken control of Pogradec. The road \"Via Egnatia\" is found in the Pogradec region, near to the shores of Lake Ohrid, and is evidence of the former Roman presence.\n\nAs time passed, the inhabitants of Pogradec became known as the inhabitants of Arbër rather than Illyrians, and were eventually referred to as Albanians. The fortification of the city remained intact for a long time, and were only overcome 1400 years after their construction by the Illyrians, by the Slavs. During the Slavic invasion between the 7th and 8th centuries AD, Slavs occupied much of the Balkans, including the Pogradec area. Afterwards the Byzantines were able slowly to regain the imperial control. The Bulgarians then entered Albania, capturing the Pogradec area in the 9th century and sustained the occupation until the 12th century. During these periods of occupation, life behind the fortified walls on the hill was abandoned, and instead a new settlement was created closer to Lake Ohrid, which is modern day Pogradec. The name of the city comes from Slavic languages which once had occupied the area; the name \"Podga Grada\", which evolved to the modern day name, means \"under the city\". This is a reference to the former Illyrian site on the hill above Pogradec.\n\nOver time, the city changed hands many times. These occupations have all left a mark on the area, and shows its history. The historic centre of Pogradec shows 19th- and 20th-century Albanian architecture. Floor mosaics and the church \"Lin\" show the historic presence of Christianity in the area, dating back to the time of the Byzantine Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "22551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22551", "title": "Oaths of Strasbourg", "text": "Oaths of Strasbourg\n\nThe Oaths of Strasbourg (; ; ) were mutual pledges of allegiance between Louis the German (†876), ruler of East Francia, and his half-brother Charles the Bald (†877), ruler of West Francia made on 12 February 842. They are written in three different languages: Medieval Latin, Old Gallo-Romance and Old High German, all in Caroline minuscule. The Romance passages are generally considered to be the earliest texts in a language that is distinctly Gallo-Romance.\n\nThe several pledges were spoken at a strategic meeting on 12 February 842 at Strasbourg, with the brothers' assembled armies in attendance and participating in the ceremonies. In addition to their promised allegiance to each other, Louis and Charles pledged their solidarity to oppose their eldest brother Lothair, ruler of Middle Francia and, nominally, emperor of all the Carolingian Empire Frankish kingdoms as well as Holy Roman Emperor. Louis spoke his oath in the Romance language of Charles' realm, while Charles spoke his oath in \"lingua teudisca\", Germanic, of Louis' realm.\n\nThe historical nature of the meeting is made more remarkable by the additional, separate pledges that were scripted for the monarchs' armies – in their respective vernaculars – to the effect that, for each \"soldier\": should their own lord-king unilaterally break the oath just pledged (to the other king), then, each \"soldier of the oath\" promises \"not\" to help his master against the abused other monarch.\n\nThe sole source for the text of the oaths is Nithard's \"Historiae\" or \"De dissensionibus filiorum Ludovici pii\" (\"On the Dissensions of the Sons of Louis the Pious\"), where it is found in Chapter V of Book III. Nithard's work is preserved in a manuscript from the 10th or 11th century (Cod. Lat. 9768 in the Bibliothèque nationale in Paris) and the text of the oaths is on folios 12-13-13. (A later, 14th-century manuscript is a copy of Cod. Lat. 9768 and therefore of no independent value as a source.)\n\nBoth kings first made the same preamble speech, which was a detailed complaint against Lothair. Each king then swore his individual oath in front of their assembled armies, not in Latin nor in his own language, but in the vernacular of the other's kingdom. Finally, the armies swore separate pledges in their respective languages.\n\nOne version of the pledges was written in the Rhine Franconian dialect of Old High German. The second version is in a form of Romance that can be viewed, very approximately, as Proto-French. The preamble was also written in Latin, as were sections to report the ceremonies.\n\nThe text is significant to both linguists and historians. Linguistically, the text is the first document known to be written in a Romance language, and specifically in a form of Gallo-Romance. The documents also shed light on a significant period in the history of the Carolingian-Frankish empire. Historians have long used the coexistence of these bilingual documents to illustrate their theory that, by 842, the empire had begun splitting into separate proto-countries and developing with different languages and customs.\n\nHowever, others of late have come to favour a different hypothesis: that the Frankish Kingdom comprised several \"regna\" (loosely translated as \"kingdoms\") that since ancient times had maintained different customs and dialects. Supporting this theory they note that both Charlemagne and Louis the Pious sent their sons to be raised in the respective \"regna\" which they were designated to inherit, in order to better enlist the support of the local populace by becoming familiar with them and their customs.\n\nThe transcriptions are edited, with abbreviations written out and some punctuation and word boundaries inserted.\n\nThe image to the right is a scan of the original text. In the transcription below, two asterisks mark the beginning and end of the text visible in this scan.\n\nThe following is the Romance vernacular part in its original manuscript form and a close transcription (with minimal editing):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17862441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17862441", "title": "Old Beaupre Castle", "text": "Old Beaupre Castle\n\nOld Beaupre Castle (; also known as Beaupre Castle, Old Beaupre Manor, or simply Beaupre) is a ruined medieval fortified manor house located in the community of Llanfair, outside Cowbridge in Wales. It is known in historic documents under the names Beawpire, Bewerpere, Bewpyr and Y Bewpur. It is a Grade I listed building and is presently under the care of Cadw. It can be visited free of charge all year round by members of the public.\n\nAlthough called Old Beaupre Castle the structure is seen as a fortified manor house. The original house was an L-shaped building, now located within the inner courtyard, built circa 1300 and from this period until the 18th century it was owned by the Basset family. During the 16th century intensive remodelling was undertaken, started by Sir Rice Mansel, continued by William Basset and completed by William's son, Richard. This additional work added the impressive outer gatehouse, completed in 1586 and a three-storeyed Renaissance porch, completed 1600, along with the buildings around the middle court. The buildings on the west side of the middle court, now roofless, provided luxurious living accommodation with large windows, handsome fireplaces, a fine stone stairway, and numerous privies connected to a drain along which water still flows.\n\nAfter the 16th century alterations little work was carried out on Beaupre, and after the English Civil War the Basset family fortunes went into decline. At the beginning of the 18th century, the Basset inheritance eventually passed to the Jones family. The Jones family decided not to settle in Beaupre Castle and chose to use the smaller and more convenient mansion of New Beaupre. Beaupre was sold in 1709, and by that time it was in a state of disrepair with only part of it still habitable. Nevertheless, there is some evidence that it continued to be at least partly occupied as various fireplaces and windows were blocked up, presumably to reduce the taxes payable. The southeastern block continues to be occupied up to the present time as a farmhouse and has a separate listing on the historic buildings register.\n\nThis mansion dates from the sixteenth or seventeenth century but is built on remnants of a building dating from about 1300. It occupies a site about long and wide, orientated in a north/south direction. The building is arranged around three courts, the fine gatehouse being on the south side connecting the outer to the middle court. The oldest part of the building is the south block where the original gatehouse can be seen to the left of the later one; this older entrance has a Tudor window inserted into the blocked arch.\n\nBeaupre Castle has few outwardly looking windows and appears like a series of fortified barns. The main entrance is via the gatehouse reached via a low walled outer courtyard. The gatehouse is a three storey structure surrounded by a curtain wall. The inner porch stands out from the rest of the courtyard with smooth ashlar stonework in comparison to the rough local stonework surrounding it. The porch, designed by Richard Twrch, consists of varying architectural styles including a Tudor arch, strapwork decoration and three tiers of flanked columns. The columns rise in ascending order from Doric to Ionic to Corinthian and the second tier bears the Basset family heraldic set on panels. Through the entrance porch is the fourteenth century great hall, now without a roof. The windows were probably enlarged in the sixteenth century but the fine, heraldic fireplace dates back to the fourteenth century.\n\nThe range on the east side of the middle court has no roof and is four storeys high. Its southern elevation has a doorway at ground level on either end, three sets of four-light windows towards the right end and six pairs of two-light windows at the left end. The range on the west side of the middle court is three storeys high, has no floor or roof and dates from about 1540. Its northern elevation has three sets of four-light mullioned windows which are centrally placed.\n\nOld Beaupre Castle is a scheduled monument, a Grade I listed building, listed because it is a fine example of a medieval manor house, modified during the Tudor period, and its carved Renaissance porch is particularly impressive. Old Beaupre Castle is under the care of Cadw. The property is open all year round free of charge. A small car park is available 250 metres away and visitors approach the property across pastureland, with stiles and a kissing gate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43907097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43907097", "title": "Pershing Angels", "text": "Pershing Angels\n\nThe National Society Pershing Angels is a military-based drill sorority for women founded in 1965 as a Coed Affiliate drill unit of Pershing Rifles at Morgan State University. It is the oldest continuously operating U.S. national women's college organization dedicated to drill.\n\nThe National Society of Pershing Angels is charged to foster a spirit of friendship and cooperation among the women in the military department and to maintain a highly efficient drill company.\n\nDrill, Service, Social\n\nThe symbols of Pershing Angels are:\n\n\nIn 1964, a group of 30 ladies started a society that would become Pershing Angels at Morgan State College now Morgan State University in Baltimore, Maryland. On February 9, 1965, The National Society of Pershing Angels were formally recognized as a university organization and as a sister unit to Pershing Rifles Company J-8 (then H-15) at Morgan. Across the Nation other women's affiliates of Pershing Rifles formed during the early 60’s. Pershing Angels was one of many similar coed affiliates with the same ideals and drill activities recognized by local Pershing Rifles Companies, but not officially sanctioned by Pershing Rifles National Headquarters.\n\nPershing Angles became part of the Coed Affiliates Pershing Rifles (CAPERS) in 1966 when CAPERS were formed as the first officially recognized nationwide female auxiliary to the National Society of Pershing Rifles.\n\nPershing Rifles began accepting women as members as early as 1971, but CAPERS continued on until the mid-1980s. Once CAPERS were disbanded, Pershing Angels units formerly affiliated with CAPERS chose to continue on as a separate organization.\n\nOver the years Pershing Angels have expanded to other Universities which included Company C-16, Florida A&M University, Company C-15, Norfolk State College (presently Co. R-4-5, Norfolk State University), Hampton (Institute) University, and Howard University.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4674514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4674514", "title": "Prehistorik 2", "text": "Prehistorik 2\n\nPrehistorik 2 is a platform game, the sequel to \"Prehistorik\". It was developed by Titus Interactive for MS-DOS and Amstrad CPC in 1993.\n\nLike in its predecessor, the main character of \"Prehistorik 2\" is a caveman who goes in quest for food, fighting various animals and humorous end of level bosses.\n\nThe game is a simple platform game where the player walks and jumps their way through the levels and whacks enemies in the head with a club. Points can be collected by both whacking enemies and collecting items (including food, diamonds, video games, etc.). The levels contain hidden food items which can be discovered by hitting the right spots with the club.\n\nThe creators added a lot of detail to the game, which indeed increases the entertainment factor. If the player runs for a long distance and then stops, the caveman will be out of breath.\n\nControlling the game is very simple, with only the four arrow keys for movement and the space bar as attack button.\n\nInstead of having to collect at least the right amount of food to be able to reach the next level as in \"Prehistorik\", in \"Prehistorik 2\" it is only required to get a lighter before the player can go to the next level. All in all, there are ten levels plus three bonus levels.\n\nThere are various hidden secrets in this game, one shows some extra credits, and there is a collection of holiday photographs of the development team.\n\nFrom 1996 on, a notice stating that the game still works in the year it is played in appears when starting the EXE file.\n\nLevel codes differ on every machine with a different BIOS. For example, if Prehistorik 2 is played via DOSBox, the codes obtained are different than those when playing in Windows XP.\n\nThe game was later ported to the Game Boy as \"Prehistorik Man\".\n\nA separate game, also titled \"Prehistorik Man\", was released for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. The Super NES game was in turn ported to the Game Boy Advance and the Nintendo DSi (as a DSiWare release), with the latter being released in North America on February 15, 2010.\n\nOn release, \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" gave the Game Boy version a 6 out of 10, commenting that \"The whole game becomes monotonous as it gets tired somewhat quickly.\" They rated the later Super NES version much better, giving it an 8.875 out of 10 and their \"Game of the Month\" award. They particularly lauded the game's storyline, humorous sound effects, strong play control, and numerous secrets. \"Famicom Tsūshin\" scored the Super Famicom version of \"Prehistorik Man\" a 27 out of 40.\n\n"}
{"id": "9426840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9426840", "title": "Richard G. Hovannisian", "text": "Richard G. Hovannisian\n\nRichard Gable Hovannisian (, born November 9, 1932) is an Armenian American historian and professor emeritus at the University of California, Los Angeles. He is known mainly for his five-volume history of the First Republic of Armenia.\n\nHovannisian was born and raised in Tulare, California into a family of Armenian Genocide survivors. His father, Gaspar Gavroian, was born in 1901 in the village of Bazmashen (Pazmashen; now ), near Kharpert in the Ottoman Empire. Fleeing the genocide of 1915, he moved to the United States by 1920 and changed his last name from Gavroian to Hovannisian, after his father's name, Hovhannes. In 1926, Kaspar married Siroon (Sarah) Nalbandian, also a child of the genocide survivors. Their two sons were born in 1928 (John) and 1930 (Ralph). Richard Gable Hovannisian (named after Clark Gable) was born last on November 9, 1932.\n\nHovannisian married Vartiter Kotcholosian in 1957 at the Holy Trinity Armenian Church of Fresno. They had several children, including Raffi, who later went on to become the first Foreign Minister of Armenia and is currently an opposition politician.\n\nHovannisian received his B.A. in history (1954) from the University of California, Berkeley, and his M.A. in history (1958) and his Ph.D. (1966) from University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). He was also an associate professor of history at Mount St. Mary's College, Los Angeles, from 1966 to 1969, having joined UCLA in 1962. Hovannisian's scholarly work early on was focused on the history of the First Republic of Armenia (1918–20). His Ph.D. dissertation, originally envisioned to encompass its entire history, was published in 1967 as \"Armenia on the Road to Independence\" and would serve as a prologue to the four volumes (1971-1996) that he would eventually publish on the history of the republic. These volumes were generally well-received among scholarly circles.\n\nIn 1986, Hovannisian was appointed as the first holder of the Armenian Educational Foundation Endowed Chair in Modern Armenian History at UCLA. Hovannisian is a Guggenheim Fellow who has received numerous honors for his scholarship, civic activities, and advancement of Armenian Studies. His biographical entries are included in Who's Who in America and Who's Who in the World among other scholarly and literary reference works. Hovannisian serves on the board of directors of nine scholarly and civic organizations, including the Facing History and Ourselves Foundation; the International Institute on the Holocaust and Genocide; International Alert; the Foundation for Research on Armenian Architecture; and the Armenian National Institute (ANI). He received the UCLA Alumni Association's 2010-2011 \"Most Inspiring Teacher\" award.\n\nSince 2000, Hovannisian has overseen and edited a number of individual studies on the former Armenian-populated towns and cities of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nIn a 2006 interview Hovannisian criticized the government of then President Robert Kocharyan for its authoritarian nature and added that Armenia \"must not become a failed state.\" Hovanissian partook in the protests following the 2013 presidential election in Armenia in which his son, Raffi, came in second according to official results.\n\n\nThe UCLA conference series titled \"Historic Armenian Cities and Provinces\" has been organized by Hovannisian, as the Holder of the Armenian Educational Foundation Chair in Modern Armenian History. The conference proceedings (edited by Hovannisian) that have so far been published (in Costa Mesa, CA, by Mazda Publishers) are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30616021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30616021", "title": "Rural Heritage", "text": "Rural Heritage\n\nRural Heritage is a bimonthly magazine published for America’s past and present enthusiasts of animal power. \nFirst published in 1976, the magazine was named as \"the Evener\". It serves small farmers and loggers who use draft horses, mules, and oxen in their business. The former headquarters was in Knoxville, Tennessee. The headquarters of the magazine is in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. It is self-published on a small Iowa farm, and distributes its issues mainly through direct mailing. Some farm and feed stores such as Tractor Supply also carry the magazine. \"Rural Heritage\" is currently edited by Joe Mischka. Previously, the magazine was edited by Gail Damerow.\n"}
{"id": "2366783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2366783", "title": "Speechwriter", "text": "Speechwriter\n\nA speechwriter is a person who is hired to prepare and write speeches that will be delivered by another person. Speechwriters are employed by many senior-level elected officials and executives in the government and private sectors. They can also be employed to write for weddings and other social occasions.\n\nA speechwriter works directly with senior executives or leaders to determine what points, themes, positions, or messages the executive would like to cover. Speechwriters need to be able to accept criticism and comments on the different drafts of the speech, and be able to incorporate the proposed changes into the draft. Speechwriters have to be able to work on several different speeches at once, and manage their time so that they can meet strict deadlines for finishing the speech on time. Speechwriters must also be able to accept anonymity, because with few exceptions, speechwriters are not officially credited or acknowledged. This aspect creates a dilemma for historians and compilers of speech anthology; namely, when some poignant phrase gains popularity such as John F. Kennedy's \"ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country,\". Should credit be given to the President, to speechwriter Ted Sorensen, or to both? Professional speechwriter Lawrence Bernstein writes:\n\nWhile there is a guild called \"The UK Speechwriters' Guild\" for professional speechwriters, they do not usually have specific training in the area or field for which they are writing speeches. Instead, speechwriters often have a broad understanding of basic economics, political roles, and policy issues, which make them generalists who are able to \"translate\" complex economic and policy issues into a clear message for the general public. As with many other writing occupations, most speechwriters do not have specific training in their writing craft. Instead, speechwriters often develop their speech writing skills by combining a general liberal arts education (e.g., in political science, philosophy, or English literature) with a variety of work experience in politics, public administration, journalism, or a related field.\n\nThe delivery of the speech is part of the challenge speechwriters face when crafting the message. Executive speechwriter Anthony Trendl writes:\n\nA perennial challenge for speechwriters is writing authoritatively about topics for which they may know very little. As executive speechwriter Ben Roberts notes:\n\nWriting a speech involves several steps. A speechwriter has to meet with the executive and the executive's senior staff to determine the broad framework of points or messages that the executive wants to cover in the speech. Then, the speechwriter does his or her own research on the topic to flesh out this framework with anecdotes and examples. The speechwriter will also consider the audience for the speech, which can range from a town-hall meeting of community leaders to an international leaders' forum. Then the speechwriter blends the points, themes, positions, and messages with his or her own research to create an \"informative, original and authentic speech\" for the executive. \n\nThe speechwriter then presents a draft version of the speech to the executive (or the executive's staff) and makes notes on any revisions or changes that are requested. If the speechwriter is familiar with the topic and the positions and style of the executive, only small changes may be needed. In other cases, the executive may feel that the speech does not have the right tone or flow, and the entire speech may have to be re-drafted.\n\nSome notable political speechwriters include:\n\n\n\n\n\nSome fictional speechwriters include: James Hobert, speechwriter for the fictional Mayor of New York City Randall Winston on \"Spin City\". Toby Ziegler, Sam Seaborn and later on, Will Bailey all wrote for the Bartlet Administration on \"The West Wing\". Other fictional characters that are speechwriters include Violet Evergarden from the anime, Violet Evergarden, who wrote for any client who requested her through the C.H. Postal Company or any client who requested her by other means.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "528299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528299", "title": "St. Mary's Church, Gdańsk", "text": "St. Mary's Church, Gdańsk\n\nSt. Mary's Church (Polish: \"Bazylika Mariacka\", ), or formally the Basilica of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary (Polish: \"Bazylika Mariacka Wniebowzięcia Najświętszej\" \"Maryi Panny w Gdańsku\"), is a Roman Catholic church in Gdańsk, Poland. Its construction began in 1379, or 1343 according to the official website. With its volume between 185,000 m and 190,000  m is currently one of the two or three largest brick churches in the world, and one of the two or three largest north of the Alps. Only San Petronio Basilica in Bologna, comprising 258,000 m is larger, Munich Frauenkirche and Ulm Minster also comprise 185,000 to 190,000 m.\n\nBetween 1536 and 1572 St. Mary's Church was used for Roman Catholic and Lutheran services simultaneously. From the 16th century until 1945, when Danzig became Polish Gdańsk, it was the second largest Lutheran church in the world. It is long, and the nave is wide. Inside the church is room for 25,000 people. It is an aisled hall church with a transept. It is a co-cathedral in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Gdańsk, along with the Oliwa Cathedral.\n\nAccording to tradition, as early as 1243 a wooden Church of the Assumption existed at this site, built by Prince Swantopolk II.\n\nThe foundation stone for the new brick church was placed on 25 March 1343, the feast of the Annunciation. At first a six-span bay basilica with a low turret was built, erected from 1343 to 1360. Parts of the pillars and lower levels of the turret have been preserved from this building.\n\nIn 1379 the Danzig architect Heinrich Ungeradin and his team began construction of the present church. Their building shows some differences from St. Mary's Church in Lübeck, sometimes called the mother of all Brick Gothic churches dedicated to St. Mary in Hanseatic cities around the Baltic, and it has some details in common with Gothic brick churches in Flanders and the Netherlands. By 1447 the eastern part of the church was finished, and the tower was raised by two floors in the years 1452–1466.\n\nFrom 1485 the work was continued by Hans Brandt, who supervised the erection of the main nave core. After 1496, the structure was finally finished under Heinrich Haetzl, who supervised the construction of the vaulting.\n\nIn the course of the Reformation most Danzigers adopted Lutheranism, among them the parishioners of St. Mary's. After a short wave of turbulent religious altercations in 1525 and 1526, in which the previous city council was overthrown, the new authorities favored a smooth transition to Lutheran religious practice. In 1529 the first Lutheran sermon was given in St. Mary's. From 1536 — in cooperation with Włocławek's Catholic officials — a Lutheran cleric was permanently employed at St. Mary's and both Lutheran services and Catholic masses were held. The Lutheran congregation then began registering personal data, and the oldest surviving register is that of burials starting in 1537.\n\nIn July 1557, King Sigismund II Augustus of Poland granted Danzig the religious privilege of celebrating communion with both bread and wine. Thereafter the City Council ended Catholic masses in all Danzig churches except St. Mary's, where Catholic masses continued until 1572. As part of the smooth transition Lutheran pastors and services at first also continued Catholic traditions, including using precious liturgical garments, such as chasubles. However Catholic traditions gradually were abandoned at St. Mary's. Danzig's Lutheran congregation, like others in northern Europe, stored the old liturgical garments, some of which survived.\n\nThe inventories of St. Mary's reflect usage of Catholic-style accessories in Danzig's early Lutheran services. The inventory of 1552 still mentions a great stock of garments and embroideries. The parishioners of St. Mary's formed a Lutheran congregation which - as part of Lutheran church polity - adopted a church order. A more elaborate church order (constitution) followed in 1612, the \"Alte kirchenordnung\". The first senior pastor (\"Erster Pfarrer, pastor primarius\") of Danzig's Lutheran state church was Johannes Kittelius, pastor at St. Mary's between 1566 and 1590. The church officially was called Supreme Parish Church of St. Mary's (Oberpfarrkirche St. Marien), indicating its prominent position in the city.\n\nDue to the anti-Bathory rebellion, in 1577 the Polish King Stephen Báthory imposed the Siege of Danzig (1577). The defense of its political position forced the city to hire mercenaries, who were so costly that the City Council confiscated gold and silver from the inhabitants and from the treasuries of the city and its Lutheran state church. Most of the gold and silver utensils of St. Mary's were melted down and minted to pay the mercenaries. An inventory of 1552 still recorded no less than 78 silver gilt chalices, 43 altar crucifixes, 24 great silver figures of saints and the like more. After 1577 most of it was gone. The Danzig rebellion ended in December 1577 with a compromise forcing the city to pay the king the sum of 200,000 Polish guilders. But the Polish monarch also recognised Danzig's religious freedom and Lutheran faith. As a compromise the jurisdiction over Danzig's Lutherans as to marital and sexual matters remained with Włocławek's Catholic officials.\n\nIn 1594, the Polish royal court tribunal attempted to restore Catholic services to St. Mary's, but the City Council rejected that approach. But as a compromise, since the Catholic kings of Poland had been the nominal heads of the City since the Second Peace of Thorn (1466), the Council authorised building the baroque Catholic Royal Chapel. It was erected by Tylman van Gameren (Gamerski) and completed in 1681, near St. Mary's Church, for the king's Catholic service when he visited Danzig. With St. Mary's pastor Constantin Schütz (1646–1712) a moderate pietist theology replaced the previously dominant Lutheran orthodoxy.\n\nIn the course of the Partitions of Poland the city lost its autonomy in 1793, regaining it for a short period (1807–1814) as a Napoleonic client state, before it became part of the Kingdom of Prussia in 1815. The Prussian government integrated St. Mary's and all the Lutheran state church into the all-Prussian Lutheran church administration. In 1816 the Danzig Consistory was established taking on the tasks and some of the members of the Danzig spiritual ministerium. Danzig's then senior, and prime pastor at St. Mary's (1801–1827), Karl Friedrich Theodor Bertling, became a consistorial councillor in the church body. In 1817 the government imposed the union of Reformed and Lutheran congregations within the entire kingdom. First intended to win all these congregations to adopt a unified Protestant confession, the vast Lutheran majority insisted on retaining the Augsburg Confession, thus St. Mary's remained a Lutheran church and congregation, but joined the new umbrella of the Evangelical Church in Prussia in 1821, a regional Protestant church body of united administration but no common confession, comprising mostly Lutheran, but also some Reformed and united Protestant congregations.\n\nIn 1820, during Bertling's pastorate, long forgotten chests and cabinets in the sacristy were opened and the first medieval garments and liturgical decorations were rediscovered. In the 1830s more historic garments were found. At that time the congregation did not grasp the richness and rarity of these findings. So when Chaplain Franz Johann Joseph Bock, art historian and curator of the then Cologne Archdiocesan Museum, reviewed the discoveries he acquired a number of the best pieces from the congregation. Bock showed them in an exhibition in 1853. After his death some Danzig pieces from his personal collection were sold to London's Victoria and Albert Museum. These and also later sales to private collectors included cloths and vestments made of fabrics from ancient Mesopotamia and ancient Egypt, obtained during the Crusades; as well as renaissance wares from Venice, Florence and Lucca (more than 1000 items altogether).\n\nIn 1861–64 a Sexton named Hinz systematically searched chests, cabinets and other storages in chambers and rooms, also in the tower, and found many more historic liturgical garments. In the 1870s and 1880s the congregation sold more than 200 incomplete pieces, but also intact altar cloths and embroideries to the Berlin Museum of Decorative Arts. The remaining pieces of the garment collection, the so-called \"Danziger Paramentenschatz\" (Danzig Parament Treasure), mostly originate from the 150 years between 1350 and 1500.\n\nThe congregation also sold other artifacts, such as the winged triptych by Jan van Wavere, acquired by Archduke Maximilian, now held in the Church of the Teutonic Order in Vienna, and the sculpture of the \"Madonna and Child\" by Michael of Augsburg from the main altar, sold to Count Alfons Sierakowski, now in the chapel in Waplewo Wielkie. In addition, the Prussian authorities melted down gold and silver reliquaries for reuse.\n\nUntil World War II, the church interior and exterior were well preserved. Between 1920 and 1940 St. Mary's became the principal church within the Protestant Regional Synodal Federation of the Free City of Danzig. In this time the presbytery (board of the congregation) discerned the value of its parament collection and prompted its cataloguing. During a renovation in the 1920s more historic garments and altar cloths were found. From 1930 to 1933 Walter Mannowsky, then director of the City Museum (now housed in the National Museum, Gdańsk), delivered a detailed four volume inventory of the \"Paramentenschatz\". It was then presented in the St. Barbara Chapel of St. Mary's. In 1936 the \"Paramentenschatz\" was moved to a newly equipped room in the City Museum with a controlled climate, since the Barbara Chapel was too damp. The \"Paramentenschatz\" remained property of the congregation, presented on loan in the city museum (\"Stadtmuseum\").\nBeginning in the third war year 1942, major items of Danzig's cultural heritage were dismantled and demounted in coordination with the cultural heritage curator (\"Konservator\"). The presbytery of St. Mary's Church agreed to remove items like archive files and artworks such as altars, paintings, epitaphs, mobile furnishings to places outside the city. Meanwhile, churches in Danzig as elsewhere in Germany, and in German-occupied areas, saw their church bells requisitioned as non-ferrous metal for war production. Bells were classified according to historical and/or artistical value and those categorised the least valuable and cast after 1860, and especially those requisitioned in occupied areas, were melted down the first.\n\nThe church was severely damaged late in World War II, during the storming of Danzig city by the Red Army in March 1945. The wooden roof burned completely and most of the ceiling fell in. Fourteen of the large vaults collapsed. The windows were destroyed. In places the heat was so intense that some of the bricks melted, especially in the upper parts of the tower, which acted as a giant chimney. All remaining bells crashed down when their bell cages collapsed in the fire. The floor of the church, containing priceless gravestone slabs, was torn apart, allegedly by Soviet soldiers attempting to loot the corpses buried underneath.\n\nBy the end of the Second World War many German parishioners of St. Mary's fled westwards, and also the parament treasure was evacuated to the west. In March 1945 Poland began expelling the remaining ethnic Germans in the city even before the border changes promulgated at the Potsdam Conference assigned the city to Poland. Most of St. Mary's surviving parishioners wound up in the British occupation zone in northern Germany. Lübeck became a center for exiled Germans. All property of St. Mary's Lutheran congregation in Danzig (now Gdańsk) was expropriated and its cemetery despoiled. However, two unsmelted bells of St. Mary's, dating from 1632 and 1719, later were found in the so-called Hamburg bell cemetery (Glockenfriedhof). Of the prewar chimes, there still exist two bells, after restitution to the congregation loaned by its presbytery exiled in Lübeck to other congregations in northern Germany. \"Osanna\" from 1632 can be found in St. Andrew's Church, Hildesheim, and \"Dominicalis\" from 1719 can be found under the name \"Osanna\" in St. Mary's Church, Lübeck, both in Germany. \"Dominicalis\" is used by the congregation of Lutheran St. Mary's Church, and the parament treasure is on public display.\n\nDanzig/Gdańsk was gradually repopulated by more Poles, and Polish authorities handed over St. Mary's Church to the Catholic diocese. Most of the artworks from the interior survived, having been evacuated for safekeeping to villages near the city. Many of these have returned to the church, but some are displayed in various museums around Poland. The diocese has sought to secure their return.\n\nThe reconstruction started shortly after the war in 1946. The roof was rebuilt in August 1947, using reinforced concrete. After the basic reconstruction was finished, the church was reconsecrated on November 17, 1955. The reconstruction and renovation of the interior is an ongoing effort.\n\nOn November 20, 1965, by papal bull, Pope Paul VI elevated the church to the dignity of the basilica. On February 2, the Congregation for Bishops established the \"Bazylikę Mariacką\" as the Gdańsk Co-Cathedral in the then still non-metropolitan Roman Catholic Diocese of Gdańsk. Since 1925 the Oliwa Cathedral is the cathedral of the diocese (elevated to archdiocese in 1992).\n\nSt. Mary's Church is a triple-aisled hall church with a triple-aisled transept. Both the transept and the main nave are of similar width and height. Certain irregularities in the form of the northern arm of the transept are remnants of the previous church situated on the same site. In all, the building is a good example of late Gothic architecture.\n\nThe vaulting is a true piece of art. Much of it was restored after WW. II. Main nave, transept and presbytery are covered by net vaults, while the aisles are covered by crystal vaults.\n\nThe exterior of the nave is dominated by plain brick walls and high and narrow pointed arch windows. Such a construction was possible by placing corbels and buttresses inside of the church and erecting chapels between them. Similar constructions have been used in Albi Cathedral (1287–1487, Southern France) and Munich Frauenkirche (1468–1494). The gables are divided by a set of brick pinnacles. All corners are accentuated by turrets crowned by metal headpieces (reconstructed after 1970). Similar turrets can be found on the town hall of Lübeck as well as on the two large Churches of Leiden and on the Ridderzaal in The Hague.\n\nThe nave is covered by parallel longitudinal roofs, such as common in Flanders and the Netherlands. The skin of these roofs is formed by more than 8,000 m of red ceramic tiles. The vaults of the ceiling have an elevation of nearly 30 meters above the floor. They are supported by 27 pillars. The church covers an area of almost half a hectare and can hold more than 25,000 people.\n\nThe massive tower, well visible on the city’s skyline, has a height of about 80 meters. In the old days it served an important function but today it is just an observation platform. It is stabilized by strong buttresses.\n\nThe church has seven portals, one in the west under the steeple, one in the eastern façade of the choir, two on the northern and three on the southern side, six of them (all except the western) are of sandstone masonry.\n\nAt the turn of the 14th and 15th centuries the church was rebuilt and greatly enlarged. The final shape of the church was achieved over 150 years after initial building work had begun. At this time the side aisles and the stellar vaulted ceiling, the most beautiful in Poland, was added. The dimensions of this temple are very impressive – the nave is 105m long and 66m wide.\n\nThe church is decorated within with several masterpieces of Gothic, Renaissance and Baroque painting. The most notable, \"The Last Judgement\" by Flemish painter Hans Memling, is currently preserved in the National Museum of Gdańsk. Other works of art were transferred to the National Museum in Warsaw in 1945. It wasn't until the 1990s when several of them were returned to the church. The most notable parts of internal decoration are:\n\n\nThere are two bells in St Mary's Church. Both of them were cast in 1970 by foundry Felczyński in Przemyśl. The larger one is called \"Gratia Dei\", weighs , and sounds in nominal F sharp. The smaller bell is the so-called \"Ave Maria\", weighs , and sounds in C sharp.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2067198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2067198", "title": "Talent agent", "text": "Talent agent\n\nA talent agent, or booking agent, is a person who finds jobs for actors, authors, film directors, musicians, models, professional athletes, writers, screenwriters, broadcast journalists, and other professionals in various entertainment or broadcast businesses. In addition, an agent defends, supports and promotes the interest of their clients. Talent agencies specialize, either by creating departments within the agency or developing entire agencies that primarily or wholly represent one specialty. For example, there are modeling agencies, commercial talent agencies, literary agencies, voice-over agencies, broadcast journalist agencies, sports agencies, music agencies and many more.\n\nHaving an agent is not required, but does help the artist in getting jobs (concerts, tours, movie scripts, appearances, signings, sport teams, etc.). In many cases, casting directors, or other businesses go to talent agencies to find the artists for whom they are looking. The agent is paid a percentage of the star's earnings (typically 10%). Therefore, agents are sometimes referred to as \"10 percenters.\" Various regulations govern different types of agents. The regulations are established by artist's unions and the legal jurisdiction in which the agent operates. There are also professional associations of talent agencies.\n\nTalent agents are considered gatekeepers to their client's careers. They have the ability to reshape and reconstruct their client's image. They are dealmakers and assist their client by orchestrating deals within the entertainment industry, more specifically in the Hollywood entertainment industry. \n\nIn California, because talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts, the agencies must be licensed under special sections of the California Labor Code, which defines an agent as a \"person or corporation who engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, promising, or attempting to procure employment for an artist or artists.\"\n\nAs of 2018, the largest agencies by size are William Morris Endeavor (WME), Creative Artists Agency (CAA), United Talent Agency (UTA) and ICM Partners .\n\nSome talent agencies specialize in the representation of television news broadcast journalists and television news magazine hosts. The journalists and hosts represented by these agents primarily work at television stations in local markets or at networks. There are many job titles for broadcast news journalists such as anchors, reporters, weathercasters, sportscasters, correspondents and hosts.\n\nActors may be interested in working theatrically (stage, film or television) as well as in commercials. Some agents will handle all types of acting work, while others may specialize in a particular area. Some agents work only in the field of television, or only in film and television. Typically, the larger the agency, the more specialized the agents within the agency.\n\nAn agent has two sets of clients: the \"talent\" (actors, models, voice-over artists, etc.) and the \"buyer\". The buyer can be a casting director, advertising agency, production company, photographer, or direct client if the client has an \"in-house\" production staff. Agents promote talent to the buyers, submitting talent who have the appropriate age, race, sex, look, talent, etc. that the buyer is seeking for his/her project. Usually, an agent submits the actor's head shot or the model's composite card or portfolio to the buyer. After the buyer has made choices, the agent then arranges an audition (or for models, a \"go-see\" or open call). After the buyer has met the talent, the buyer will contact the agent if any of the talent will be hired. The agent will coordinate the details of wardrobe, directions, etc., as well as negotiate the contract or pay.\n\nNote that the agent's job is to get the talent auditions; the talent is the only person who can get the job. For their work, agents take a 10 to 20% commission of the gross, depending on whether the job is union (such as SAG-AFTRA) or not. Union jobs are paid per negotiated guidelines, but in non-union jobs the pay is sometimes delayed.\n\nA well established agent will have networks upon networks of contacts. Also, agents have access to professional casting services. Many of these casting resources are not available to the general public.\n\nAlthough most of the successful agents are private individuals unknown to the public, some are celebrities in their own right. Notable current and former talent agents includes David Begelman, Ari Emanuel, Freddie Fields, Johnny Hyde, Irving \"Swifty\" Lazar, Sue Mengers, Quincy Sims, Lew Wasserman, Jadin Wong and The Handbook.\n\nIn the music world, booking agents are different from talent managers. Booking agents are the people who actually book shows for the artists they represent. These agents make all of the arrangements with the promoters of the shows. The booking agent presents the promoter or producer of the concert with a performance agreement, which stipulates the artist's requirements. Items may include lighting, sound, meals, hotel accommodations, and transportation. For concert buyers, they work to find the artist who will fit in the need and available budget.\n\nMany of the major booking agencies refuse to represent clients who are not already signed to a major record label and have national distribution of their music. Because of this, artists on independent record labels often seek representation with an independent booking agency.\n\nBars and nightclubs that specialize in presenting live music on a regular basis often employ an individual to assemble the schedule of events. This individual is the venue's buyer, and should not be confused with the booking agent, who presents a roster of available acts to the buyer. Booking agents may also have contacts known as free-lance promoters. These are individuals who agree to produce a concert by locating a venue, providing a sound system and assembling a staff. Producing a show in this manner, at a location rented out for a single evening, is called “four-walling,” as the process entails renting a venue and receiving no additional services or technical equipment other than the space itself. This has often been the only available option for underground musicians lacking enough popular appeal to gain access to more conventional performance venues (see: Punk rock), but is also used among the genre of raves and various DJ-related events.\n\nThe cost factor of having a booking agent must be weighed against what the agent can do for clients and buyers alike. Some agents represent several different types of artists, while others represent artists in one main area/genre.\n\nSome music agencies deal exclusively with cover bands, listing exclusive and non-exclusive artists on their rosters. In addition, some agencies will also work with a third party company to build specific bands using their own database of vetted musicians, whilst other cover band agencies work with session musicians, that provide a 'flexible' line up for each act.\n\nBooking agents are also used for the cruise ship industry where several different categories of entertainers are needed. These can include individual musicians to be part of the ship's orchestra, small bands and ensembles as well as variety entertainers such as singers, instrumentalists, magicians, comedians and acrobats. Artists looking to work on cruise ships will sign an employment contract with the cruise line and a separate commission contract with the booking agent. The agent will usually be based in the country of origin for the artist.\n\nA music manager (or band manager) handles many career issues for bands, singers, record producers, and DJs. A music manager is hired by a musician or band to help with determining decisions related to career moves, bookings, promotions, business deals, recording contracts, etc. The role of music managers is extensive and may include similar duties to that of a press agent, promoter, booking agent, business manager (who is sometimes a certified public accountant), tour managers, and sometimes even a personal assistant. Responsibilities of a business manager are often divided among many individuals who manage various aspects of a musical career. With an unsigned act, music managers must assume multiple roles: booking agent, graphic designer, publicist, promoter, and accountant. As an artist's career develops, responsibilities grow. A music manager becomes important to managing the many different pieces that make up a career in music. The manager can assist singers, songwriters, and instrumentalists in molding a career, finding music producers, and developing relationships with record companies, publishers, agents, and the music-loving public. The duties of an active music manager will focus on developing a reputation for the musician and building a fan base, which may include mastering and launching a demo CD, developing and releasing press kits, planning promotional activities, and booking shows. A music manager will gain access to a recording studio, photographers, and promotions. He or she will see that CD labels, posters, and promotional materials appropriately represent the band or artist, and that press kits are released in a timely manner to appropriate media. Launching a CD with complementary venues and dates is also a music manager's responsibility.\n\nWith the advent of the internet, established and new talent can have a thriving career in the voice over industry through online casting websites. Whilst there are sites that allow any person to join, a new wave of 'professionals only' casting websites is emerging. In an industry where radio and television voice overs can be recorded in home studios because of technology becoming so affordable, high paying jobs are no longer sourced exclusively through traditional voice talent agents.\n\nSince the decline in viewership in theaters, from the 1950s to 1960s, a monumental shift occurred in how studios produced films and reduced the cost of exclusive and expensive actors. After the shift, actors and actresses were working for the studios but were not owned by one major studio entity, and so were able to work with other studios. This shift has meant that agents were now seen as a necessity instead of an option. Agents became third parties who negotiated between studios and clients, making the need for the agents' services an imperative for each party.\n\nIn the 1980s new agencies were established to compete with the \"Big five.\" In 1991 Bauer-Benedek merged with Leading Artists Agency to form what became United Talent Agency. These agencies were Traid Artists and InterTalent. Traid Artist would eventually be sold to William Morris Agency in 1992, and InterTalent would diminish when its partners dispersed between UTA and ICM in the same year.\n\nBy the 2000s, Hollywood's largest talent agencies were known as the \"big five\" or \"top five\". Creative Artists Agency (CAA), William Morris Agency (WMA), United Talent Agency (UTA), International Creative Management (ICM), and Endeavor. In 2009 two of the agencies, Endeavor and the William Morris Agency, merged to form William Morris Endeavor (WME). In 2012, International Creative Management completed a management buyout and formed a partnership with the new name, ICM Partners.\n\nThe difference between the roles of agents and managers has become smaller and more blurred. A frequent definition of the role of a talent manager is to \"oversee the day-to-day business affairs of an artist; advise and counsel talent concerning professional matters, long-term plans and personal decisions which may affect their career.\" Considerable overlap exists as talent agents may opt to fill exactly the same roles for their clients out of a financial interest in developing the careers of their talent and currying their favor.\n\nVarious state laws and labor guild rules govern the roles reserved to agents, as well as specifying certain special rights, privileges, and prohibitions. In the state of California, the labor code requires licensing of talent agencies and includes regulations such as criminal background checks, maintaining separate operating accounts and client trust accounts, and limits total commissions to twenty-five percent, among other regulations. In contrast, management companies are described as \"often unregulated.\" Agents also have certain privileged powers in situations of verbal agreement and can legally agree to a binding employment offer on behalf of their client.\n\nA prominent difference between agents and managers under California state law is that licensed talent agents and employment agents are the only entities legally allowed to seek work on behalf of their clients. This legal distinction has enabled artists such as the Deftones, Pamela Anderson, Nia Vardalos, Freddie Prinze Jr., and others to break contracts with their managers and avoid commissions owed according to those contracts by proving \"unlicensed procurement\" in court. Because the enforcement against talent managers procuring work is largely carried out through civil litigation and not criminal penalties, managers directly seek out work in defiance of state laws, as clients out of self-interest will seldom object to them doing so and cases alleging illegal procurement are infrequent.\n\nThe Writer's Guild, Screen Actor's Guild, and Director's Guild, among labor guilds, strike agency franchise agreements that specify certain regulations and privileges reserved solely for agents including setting maximum commissions at ten percent of a talent's gross earnings. Managers do not face the same restrictions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36627360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36627360", "title": "Wadi Yaroun", "text": "Wadi Yaroun\n\nWadi Yaroun, Wadi Yarun, Wadi Jarun, Wadi Hanine, Jarun or Jareon is a wadi located south of Ain Ebel in the Bint Jbeil District of Nabatieh Governorate in Lebanon. After it reaches Yaroun it is called the Wadi Nahle or Wadi Nalesh and after reaching Debel it is called the Wadi Ayun et Tannour.\n\nA Heavy Neolithic archaeological site of the Qaraoun culture was discovered by Paul Bovier-Lapierre west north west of Yaroun and south of Ain Ebel; Lorraine Copeland remarked that \"the surface of this valley is literally covered in (worked flint) flakes\". Bovier-Lapierre recovered several unpolished and polished axes with one exceptional elongated piece. All sorts of blades, scrapers, discs and other tools were found on the site and were stored with the Saint Joseph University (now the Museum of Lebanese Prehistory). Henri Fleisch determined the collection also included some later Neolithic pieces.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044015", "title": "Zenith camera", "text": "Zenith camera\n\nA zenith camera is an astrogeodetic telescope used today primarily for the local surveys of Earth's gravity field. Zenith cameras are designed as transportable field instruments for the direct observation of the plumb line (astronomical coordinates) and vertical deflections.\n\nA zenith camera combines an optical lens (about 10–20 cm aperture) with a digital image sensor (CCD) in order to image stars near the zenith. Electronic levels (tilt sensors) serve as a means to point the lens towards zenith.\nZenith cameras are generally mounted on a turnable platform to allow star images to be taken in two camera directions (two-face-measurement). Because zenith cameras are usually designed as non-tracking and non-scanning instruments, exposure times are kept short, at the order of few 0.1 s, yielding rather circular star images. Exposure epochs are mostly recorded by means of the timing-capability of GPS-receivers (time-tagging).\n\nDepending on the CCD sensor - lens combination used, few 10s to 100s of stars are captured with a single digital zenith image. The positions of imaged stars are measured by means of digital image processing algorithms, such as image moment analysis or point spread functions to fit the star images. Star catalogues, such as Tycho-2 or UCAC-3 are used as celestial reference to reduce the star images. The zenith point is interpolated into the field of imaged stars, and corrected for the exposure time and (small) tilt of the telescope axis to yield the direction of the plumb line.\n\nIf the geodetic coordinates of the zenith camera is known or measured, e.g., with a GPS-receiver, vertical deflections are obtained as result of the zenith camera measurement. Zenith cameras deliver astronomical coordinates and vertical deflections accurate to about 0.1 seconds of arc. Zenith cameras with CCD image sensors are efficient to collect vertical deflections at about 10 field stations per night. Zenith cameras have been used for accurate local surveys of Earth's gravity field (geoid, quasigeoid).\n\n\n"}
