{"id": "3033358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3033358", "title": "738 Alagasta", "text": "738 Alagasta\n\n738 Alagasta is a main belt asteroid orbiting the Sun. The asteroid is roughly 63 km in diameter and has a low albedo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5199178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5199178", "title": "Al-Zuhri", "text": "Al-Zuhri\n\n\"For the hadith scholar Al-Zuhri see Ibn Shihab al-Zuhri.\"\n\nMohammed Ibn Abi Bakr al-Zuhri of Granada (fl. 1130s–1150s) was a geographer. He was the writer of a notable work, \"Kitab al-Jaghrafiyya\" (Book of Geography). Al-Zuhri was able to use the writings of the geographers of the reign of Caliph Al-Ma'mun of Baghdad (d. 456/1068). Al-Zuhri died between 1154 and 1161. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "56130038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56130038", "title": "Ano Panta", "text": "Ano Panta\n\nAno Panta (el: Άνω Πάντα) is one of the two regions of Othoni island, near Corfu, Greece. It includes the western villages of the island (Chorio, Dafni, Stavros etc.) while Kato Panta (el: Κάτω Πάντα) covers the central and eastern part of Othoni.\n"}
{"id": "65748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65748", "title": "Avonlea (Anne of Green Gables)", "text": "Avonlea (Anne of Green Gables)\n\nAvonlea (;\"ah-von-LEE\") is a fictional community located on Prince Edward Island, Canada, and is the setting of Lucy Maud Montgomery's novel \"Anne of Green Gables\", following the adventures of Anne Shirley, as well as its sequels, and the television series \"Road to Avonlea\".\n\nMontgomery drew much of her inspiration for Avonlea from her childhood experiences in the late 19th century farming communities surrounding Cavendish, New Glasgow, New London, Hunter River, and Park Corner.\n\nIn Montgomery's works, Avonlea is located on the northern shore of Prince Edward Island on a small peninsula. Its primary industries are farming and lobster fishing. Neighbouring fictional communities include Carmody, White Sands (not to be confused with the modern White Sands, which is on the southern edge of PEI), Grafton, Bright River, Newbridge, and Spencervale.\n\n"}
{"id": "12837333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12837333", "title": "Barind Tract", "text": "Barind Tract\n\nBarind Tract (alternately called the Varendra Tract in English and Borendro Bhumi in Bengali) is the largest Pleistocene era pysiographic unit in the Bengal Basin. It covers most of Dinajpur, Rangpur, Pabna, Rajshahi, Bogra, and Joypurhat districts of Rajshahi Division and Rangpur Division in Bangladesh as well as entirety of Uttar Dinajpur, Dakshin Dinajpur and most of Maldah districts in West Bengal, India. It is made up of several separate sections in the northwestern part of Bangladesh, and, northern part of West Bengal, India covering a total area of approximately 10000 km² of mostly old alluvium. On the eastern edge of the tract is a lower fault escarpment. Through the fault troughs run the little Jamuna, Atrai and Lower Punarbhaba rivers. To the west, the main area is tilted up, and to the east this area is tilted downwards. The climate of the tract differs from that of much of India, in that more extreme temperature variations (ranging from 45 degrees Celsius down to five degrees Celsius) are encountered there. It is divided into three units: The Recent Alluvial Fan, the Barind Pleistocene, and the Recent Floodplain. These are divided by long, narrow bands of recent alluvium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40390498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40390498", "title": "Botanical expedition", "text": "Botanical expedition\n\nA botanical expedition is a scientific journey or voyage designed to explore the flora of a particular region. The expedition could be specifically designed for exploring the flora, or this could have been a part of studying the natural history of the region. A naturalist or botanist was charged with drawing and describing the flora, collecting specimens of unknown plants in a plant press, and identifying potential economically important plants. On botanical expeditions funded by governments, the plants were often collected by the person in the field, but described and named by a government sponsored scientists at botanical gardens and universities. For example, many of the species collected on the Lewis and Clark Expedition were described and named by Frederick Traugott Pursh.\n"}
{"id": "18117619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18117619", "title": "Brahin (meteorite)", "text": "Brahin (meteorite)\n\nBrahin is a meteorite pallasite found in 1807.\nThis is the second meteorite ever found in Russia.\nSometimes it is also called Bragin or Bragim.\nIt is quite common among collectors due the affordable price of small partial slices.\n\nIn 1807 two masses of and were found by farmers of Kaporenki, a village in the district of Bragin. The meteorites were sent to scientists by the administrator of the district: Graf Rakitsky, State Advisor and Ex Honorio Inspector of The Schools Of Rechitsky Uezd. Since 1807 several masses were recovered from the site.\n\nDuring World War II, samples of Brahin were stolen in Kiev by German soldiers and some samples disappeared also in Minsk.\n\nIn 2002 a single mass of was found at a depth of 3 meters at the northern end of Brahin strewnfield.\n\nBrahin is a Main Group pallasite, with angular shaped olivine embedded in an iron-nickel matrix. Olivine crystals represent about 37% of the weight of the meteorite.\n\nPallasites are not common; they compose only 1.8% of all known meteorites. \nIt has been proposed that pallasites represents the interface between the stone mantle and the metal core of differentiated asteroids.\n\nMeteorites were found in a zone about long and wide crossed by the Dnieper River.\n\nThe area was contaminated in 1986 during the Chernobyl disaster and falls now in the . Post-accident recovered meteorites are safe and not contaminated because the radiation affects only the first few inches of soil, nevertheless meteorite hunting in the area is not entirely safe.\n\nThe official total known weight is , but it is probably underestimated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31131478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31131478", "title": "Bulgarian toponyms in Antarctica (F)", "text": "Bulgarian toponyms in Antarctica (F)\n\nA | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | Y | Z\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "878537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=878537", "title": "Carrack", "text": "Carrack\n\nA carrack was a three- or four-masted ocean-going sailing ship that was developed in the 13th to 15th centuries in Europe (mainly Portugal). Evolved from the single-masted cog, the carrack was first used for European trade from the Mediterranean to the Baltic and quickly found use with the newly found wealth and status of the trans-Atlantic slave trade. In its most advanced forms, it was used by the Portuguese for trade along the African coast and finally with Asia and America from the 15th century before evolving into the galleon of the 16th and 17th centuries. \n\nIn its most developed form, the carrack was a carvel-built ocean-going ship: large enough to be stable in heavy seas, and for a large cargo and the provisions needed for very long voyages. The later carracks were square-rigged on the foremast and mainmast and lateen-rigged on the mizzenmast. They had a high rounded stern with large aftcastle, forecastle and bowsprit at the stem. As the predecessor of the galleon, the carrack was one of the most influential ship designs in history; while ships became more specialized in the following centuries, the basic design remained unchanged throughout this period.\n\nEnglish \"carrack\" was loaned in the late 14th century, via Old French \"caraque\", from \"carraca\", a term for a large, square-rigged sailing vessel used in Spanish, Italian and Middle Latin. \n\nThese ships were called \"carraca\" or \"nau\" in Portuguese and Genoese, \"carabela\" or \"nao\" in Spanish, \"caraque\" or \"nef\" in French, and \"kraak\" in Dutch and Flemish.\n\nThe origin of the term \"carraca\" is unclear, perhaps from Arabic \"qaraqir\" \"merchant ship\", itself of unknown origin (maybe from Latin \"carricare\" \"to load a car\" or Greek \"καρκαρίς \" \"load of timber\").\n\nBy the Late Middle Ages the cog, and cog-like square-rigged vessels equipped with a rudder at the stern, were widely used along the coasts of Europe, from the Mediterranean, to the Baltic. Given the conditions of the Mediterranean, galley type vessels were extensively used there, as were various two masted vessels, including the caravels with their lateen sails. These and similar ship types were familiar to Portuguese navigators and shipwrights. As the Portuguese gradually extended their trade ever further south along Africa's Atlantic coast during the 15th century, they needed a larger, more durable and more advanced sailing ships for their long oceanic ventures. Gradually, they developed their own models of oceanic carracks from a fusion and modification of aspects of the ship types they knew operating in both the Atlantic and Mediterranean, generalizing their use in the end of the century for inter-oceanic travel with a more advanced form of sail rigging that allowed much improved sailing characteristics in the heavy winds and waves of the Atlantic Ocean and a hull shape and size that permitted larger cargoes. In addition to the average tonnage naus, some large naus (carracks) were also built in the reign of John II of Portugal, but were only widespread after the turn of the century. The Portuguese carracks were usually very large ships for their time, often over 1000 tons, and having the future large naus of the India run and of the China and Japan trade, also other new types of design.\n\nThe origin of the \"word\" carrack is usually traced back through the medieval European languages to the Arabic القُرْقُورُ (Al-gurgoor) and from thence to the Greek (\"kerkouros\") meaning approximately \"lighter\" (barge) (literally, \"shorn tail\", a possible reference to the ship's flat stern). Its attestation in Greek literature is distributed in two closely related lobes. The first distribution lobe, or area, associates it with certain light and fast merchantmen found near Cyprus and Corfu. The second is an extensive attestation in the Oxyrhynchus corpus, where it seems most frequently to describe the Nile barges of the Ptolemaic pharaohs. Both of these usages may lead back through the Phoenician to the Akkadian \"kalakku\", which denotes a type of river barge. The Akkadian term is assumed to be derived from a Sumerian antecedent. A modern reflex of the word is found in Arabic and Turkish \"kelek\" \"raft; riverboat\".\n\nA typical three-masted carrack such as the \"São Gabriel\" had six sails: bowsprit, foresail, mainsail, mizzensail and two topsails.\n\nFrom around 1515, Portugal had trade exchanges with Goa in Portuguese India, consisting of 3 to 4 carracks leaving Lisbon with silver to purchase cotton and spices in India. Out of these, only one carrack went on to Ming China in order to purchase silk, also in exchange for Portuguese silver.\n\nFrom the time of the acquisition of Macau in 1557, and their formal recognition as trade partners by the Chinese, the Portuguese Crown started to regulate trade to Japan, by selling to the highest bidder the annual \"Captaincy\" to Japan, in effect conferring exclusive trading rights for a single carrack bound for Japan every year. That trade continued with few interruptions until 1638, when it was prohibited by the rulers of Japan on the grounds that the ships were smuggling Catholic priests into the country.\n\nIn the middle of the 16th century the first galleons were developed from the carrack. The galleon design came to replace that of the carrack although carracks were still in use as late as the early 17th century.\n\n\nThe word caracca and derivative words is popularly used in reference to an cumbersome individual, to an old vessel, or to a vehicle in a very bad condition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14644608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14644608", "title": "Conservation Geoportal", "text": "Conservation Geoportal\n\nThe Conservation Geoportal was an online geoportal, intended to provide a comprehensive listing of geographic information systems (GIS) datasets and web map service relevant to biodiversity conservation. It is currently defunct. The site, its contents and functionality were free for anyone to use and contribute to. The Conservation Geoportal was launched on June 28, 2006 at the joint Society for Conservation Biology and Society for Conservation GIS Conference in San Jose, California, USA. As of October 2007, it included metadata for over 3,667 GIS records.\n\nThe Conservation Geoportal was conceived when representatives from a group of conservation-minded organizations met at the National Geographic Society in March 2005 to define a vision for a World Conservation Base Map. Initially the focus on developing an inventory or catalog of datasets and maps in the form of a metadata database was to be mined to develop the Conservation Base Map and Atlas.\n\nThe Conservation Geoportal constitutes a collaborative effort by and for the conservation community to facilitate the discovery and publishing of GIS data and maps, to support conservation decision-making and education. It does not actually store maps and data, but rather the descriptions and links to those data resources. These descriptions are known as metadata. It was intended to provide an efficient point of access for people interested in a full range of conservation-related GIS data. Capabilities of the Conservation Geoportal included:\n\n\n\nThe Conservation Geoportal included Data Channels and Sub-channels to organize and facilitate access to metadata describing data and maps in a given topic or theme. Channels provided quick access (2 clicks to content) to key data resources that experts consider important to the larger user community. Channels were managed by organizations and experts (channel stewards) knowledgeable about that theme, including:\n\n\nThe Conservation Geoportal was designed and maintained collaboratively by a consortium of institutions including (in alphabetical order):\n\n\nThe Conservation Geoportal was based on ESRI's GIS Portal Toolkit (Version 3.0) and ArcWeb Services technologies. Currently the site is maintained and hosted by ESRI. Although the underlying technology was proprietary, the Conservation Geoportal supports several metadata standards and OpenGIS standards, as:\n\n\nThe Map Viewer let users overlay or mashup data layers from different map servers, which may be hosted by different organizations using different protocols (e.g., ArcIMS, WMS). For example, by searching the catalog, users could discover three different map services, hosted by the Nature Conservancy, Conservation International, and World Wildlife Fund, delineating conservation priority areas. Then, with a click, these live maps can be overlaid together in the Map Viewer along with a satellite image backdrop from NASA. Users could then zoom and pan to their area of interest, turn layers on and off, adjust transparencies, and save that map view to a URL, which they can e-mail to their colleagues to show how various priority maps compare. When their colleagues click the link, exactly the same map view opens, allowing them to work with the live map, perhaps adding map services or posting the link to the map view on their Web site.\n\nThe Conservation Geoportal was intended to support the principles and objectives of the Conservation Commons. At its simplest, it encourages organizations and individuals alike to ensure open access to data, information, expertise and knowledge related to the conservation of biodiversity. The Conservation Commons is the expression of a cooperative effort of non-governmental organizations, international and multi-lateral organizations, governments, academia, and the private sector, to improve open access to and unrestricted use of, data, information and knowledge related to the conservation of biodiversity with the belief that this will contribute to improving conservation outcomes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886550", "title": "Dry point", "text": "Dry point\n\nIn geography, a dry point is an area of firm or flood-free ground in an area of wetland, marsh or flood plains. The term typically applies to settlements, and dry point settlements were common in history.\n\nIn the United Kingdom extreme examples of dry point settlements include Glastonbury, situated on a low hill in the marshy, and once frequently flooded, Somerset Levels, and Wareham in Dorset surrounded by flood plains to the west and Poole Harbour to the east.\n\nA dry point has the advantages of flood protection, fertile soil (due to previous floodings which would have deposited silt on the land) and fairly flat land which is ideal for agriculture and building.\n"}
{"id": "25271012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25271012", "title": "Environmental governance", "text": "Environmental governance\n\nEnvironmental governance is a concept in political ecology and environmental policy that advocates sustainability (sustainable development) as the supreme consideration for managing all human activities—political, social and economic. Governance includes government, business and civil society, and emphasizes whole system management. To capture this diverse range of elements, environmental governance often employs alternative systems of governance, for example watershed-based management.\n\nIt views natural resources and the environment as global public goods, belonging to the category of goods that are not diminished when they are shared. This means that everyone benefits from for example, a breathable atmosphere, stable climate and stable biodiversity.\n\nPublic goods are non-rivalrous—a natural resource enjoyed by one person can still be enjoyed by others—and non-excludable—it is impossible to prevent someone consuming the good (breathing). Nevertheless, public goods are recognized as beneficial and therefore have value. The notion of a global public good thus emerges, with a slight distinction: it covers necessities that must not be destroyed by one person or state.\n\nThe non-rivalrous character of such goods calls for a management approach that restricts public and private actors from damaging them. One approach is to attribute an economic value to the resource. Water is possibly the best example of this type of good.\n\nAs of 2013 environmental governance is far from meeting these imperatives. “Despite a great awareness of environmental questions from developed and developing countries, there is environmental degradation and the appearance of new environmental problems. This situation is caused by the parlous state of global environmental governance, wherein current global environmental governance is unable to address environmental issues due to many factors. These include fragmented governance within the United Nations, lack of involvement from financial institutions, proliferation of environmental agreements often in conflict with trade measures; all these various problems disturb the proper functioning of global environmental governance. Moreover, divisions among northern countries and the persistent gap between developed and developing countries also have to be taken into account to comprehend the institutional failures of the current global environmental governance.\"\nWhat is Environmental Governance?\n\nEnvironmental governance refers to the processes of decision-making involved in the control and management of the environment and natural resources. International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), define environmental governance as the 'multi-level interactions (i.e., local, national, international/global) among, but not limited to, three main actors, i.e., state, market, and civil society, which interact with one another, whether in formal and informal ways; in formulating and implementing policies in response to environment-related demands and inputs from the society; bound by rules, procedures, processes, and widely accepted behavior; possessing characteristics of “good governance”; for the purpose of attaining environmentally-sustainable development' (IUCN 2014)\n\nKey principles of environmental governance include:\n\n\nNeoliberal Environmental Governance – is an approach to the theory of environmental governance framed by a perspective on neoliberalism as an ideology, policy and practice in relation to the biophysical world. There are many definitions and applications of neoliberalism, e.g. in economic, international relations, etc. However, the traditional understanding of neoliberalism is often simplified to the notion of the primacy of market-led economics through the rolling back of the state, deregulation and privatisation. Neoliberalism has evolved particularly over the last 40 years with many scholars leaving their ideological footprint on the neoliberal map. Hayek and Friedman believed in the superiority of the free market over state intervention. As long as the market was allowed to act freely, the supply/demand law would ensure the ‘optimal’ price and reward. In Karl Polanyi’s opposing view this would also create a state of tension in which self-regulating free markets disrupt and alter social interactions and “displace other valued means of living and working”. However, in contrast to the notion of an unregulated market economy there has also been a “paradoxical increase in [state] intervention” in the choice of economic, legislative and social policy reforms, which are pursued by the state to preserve the neoliberal order. This contradictory process is described by Peck and Tickell as roll back/roll out neoliberalism in which on one hand the state willingly gives up the control over resources and responsibility for social provision while on the other, it engages in “purposeful construction and consolidation of neoliberalised state forms, modes of governance, and regulatory relations\".\n\nThere has been a growing interest in the effects of neoliberalism on the politics of the non-human world of environmental governance. Neoliberalism is seen to be more than a homogenous and monolithic ‘thing’ with a clear end point. It is a series of path-dependent, spatially and temporally “connected neoliberalisation” processes which affect and are affected by nature and environment that “cover a remarkable array of places, regions and countries”. Co-opting neoliberal ideas of the importance of private property and the protection of individual (investor) rights, into environmental governance can be seen in the example of recent multilateral trade agreements (see in particular the North American Free Trade Agreement). Such neoliberal structures further reinforce a process of nature enclosure and primitive accumulation or “accumulation by dispossession” that serves to privatise increasing areas of nature. The ownership-transfer of resources traditionally not privately owned to free market mechanisms is believed to deliver greater efficiency and optimal return on investment. Other similar examples of neo-liberal inspired projects include the enclosure of minerals, the fisheries quota system in the North Pacific and the privatisation of water supply and sewage treatment in England and Wales. All three examples share neoliberal characteristics to “deploy markets as the solution to environmental problems” in which scarce natural resources are commercialized and turned into commodities. The approach to frame the ecosystem in the context of a price-able commodity is also present in the work of neoliberal geographers who subject nature to price and supply/demand mechanisms where the earth is considered to be a quantifiable resource (Costanza, for example, estimates the earth ecosystem's service value to be between 16 and 54 trillion dollars per year).\n\n\"Economic growth\" – The development-centric vision that prevails in most countries and international institutions advocates a headlong rush towards more economic growth. Environmental economists on the other hand, point to a close correlation between economic growth and environmental degradation, arguing for qualitative development as an alternative to growth. As a result, the past couple of decades has seen a big shift towards sustainable development as an alternative to neo-liberal economics. There are those, particularly within the alternative globalization movement, who maintain that it is feasible to change to a degrowth phase without losing social efficiency or lowering the quality of life.\n\n\"Consumption\" – The growth of consumption and the cult of consumption, or consumerist ideology, is the major cause of economic growth. Overdevelopment, seen as the only alternative to poverty, has become an end in itself. The means for curbing this growth are not equal to the task, since the phenomenon is not confined to a growing middle class in developing countries, but also concerns the development of irresponsible lifestyles, particularly in northern countries, such as the increase in the size and number of homes and cars per person.\n\n\"Destruction of biodiversity\" – The complexity of the planet’s ecosystems means that the loss of any species has unexpected consequences. The stronger the impact on biodiversity, the stronger the likelihood of a chain reaction with unpredictable negative effects. Another important factor of environmental degradation that falls under this destruction of biodiversity, and must not be ignored is deforestation. Despite all the damage inflicted, a number of ecosystems have proved to be resilient. Environmentalists are endorsing a precautionary principle whereby all potentially damaging activities would have to be analyzed for their environmental impact.\n\n\"Population growth\" – Forecasts predict 8.9 billion people on the planet in 2050. This is a subject which primarily affects developing countries, but also concerns northern countries; although their demographic growth is lower, the environmental impact per person is far higher in these countries. Demographic growth needs to be countered by developing education and family planning programs and generally improving women’s status.\n\n\"Pollution\" - Pollution caused by the use of fossil fuels is another driver of environmental destruction. The burning of carbon-based fossil fuels such as coal and oil, releases carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. One of the major impacts of this is the climate change that is currently taking place on the planet, where the earth's temperature is gradually rising. Given that fuels such as coal and oil are the most heavily used fuels, this a great concern to many environmentalists.\n\n\"Agricultural practices\" - Destructive agricultural practices such as overuse of fertilizers and overgrazing lead to land degradation. The soil gets eroded, and leads to silting in rivers and reservoirs. Soil erosion is a continuous cycle and ultimately results in desertification of the land. Apart from land degradation, water pollution is also a possibility; chemicals used in farming can run-off into rivers and contaminate the water.\n\nThe crisis by the impact of human activities on nature calls for governance. Which includes responses by international institutions, governments and citizens, who should meet this crisis by pooling the experience and knowledge of each of the agents and institutions concerned.\n\nThe environmental protection measures taken remain insufficient. The necessary reforms require time, energy, money and diplomatic negotiations. The situation has not generated a unanimous response. Persistent divisions slow progress towards global environmental governance.\n\nThe global nature of the crisis limits the effects of national or sectoral measures. Cooperation is necessary between actors and institutions in international trade, sustainable development and peace.\n\nGlobal, continental, national and local governments have employed a variety of approaches to environmental governance. Substantial positive and negative spillovers limit the ability of any single jurisdiction to resolve issues.\n\nChallenges facing environmental governance include:\n\n\nAll of these challenges have implications on governance, however international environmental governance is necessary. The IDDRI claims that rejection of multilateralism in the name of efficiency and protection of national interests conflicts with the promotion of international law and the concept of global public goods. Others cite the complex nature of environmental problems.\n\nOn the other hand, The Agenda 21 program has been implemented in over 7,000 communities. Environmental problems, including global-scale problems, may not always require global solutions. For example, marine pollution can be tackled regionally, and ecosystem deterioration can be addressed locally. Other global problems such as climate change benefit from local and regional action.\n\nBäckstrand and Saward wrote, “sustainability and environmental protection is an arena in which innovative experiments with new hybrid, plurilateral forms of governance, along with the incorporation of a transnational civil society spanning the public-private divide, are taking place.”\n\nA 1997 report observed a global consensus that sustainable development implementation should be based on local level solutions and initiatives designed with and by the local communities. Community participation and partnership along with the decentralisation of government power to local communities are important aspects of environmental governance at the local level. Initiatives such as these are integral divergence from earlier environmental governance approaches which was “driven by state agendas and resource control” and followed a top-down or trickle down approach rather than the bottom up approach that local level governance encompasses. The adoption of practices or interventions at a local scale can, in part, be explained by diffusion of innovation theory. In Tanzania and in the Pacific, researchers have illustrated that aspects of the intervention, of the adopter, and of the social-ecological context all shape why community-centered conservation interventions spread through space and time. Local level governance shifts decision making power away from the state and/or governments to the grassroots. Local level governance is extremely important even on a global scale. Environmental governance at the global level is defined as international and as such has resulted in the marginalisation of local voices. Local level governance is important to bring back power to local communities in the global fight against environmental degridation. Pulgar Vidal observed a “new institutional framework, [wherein] decision-making regarding access to and use of natural resources has become increasingly decentralized.” He noted four techniques that can be used to develop these processes:\n\n\nHe found that the key conditions for developing decentralized environmental governance are:\n\n\nThe legitimacy of decisions depends on the local population's participation rate and on how well participants represent that population.\nWith regard to public authorities, questions linked to biodiversity can be faced by adopting appropriate policies and strategies, through exchange of knowledge and experience, the forming of partnerships, correct management of land use, monitoring of biodiversity and optimal use of resources, or reducing consumption, and promoting environmental certifications, such as EMAS and/or ISO 14001. Local authorities undoubtedly have a central role to play in the protection of biodiversity and this strategy is successful above all when the authorities show strength by involving stakeholders in a credible environmental improvement project and activating a transparent and effective communication policy (Ioppolo et al., 2013).\n\nStates play a crucial role in environmental governance, because \"however far and fast international economic integration proceeds, political authority remains vested in national governments\". It is for this reason that governments should respect and support the commitment to implementation of international agreements.\n\nAt the state level, environmental management has been found to be conducive to the creation of roundtables and committees. In France, the \"Grenelle de l’environnement\" process:\n\n\nIf environmental issues are excluded from e.g., the economic agenda, this may delegitimize those institutions.\n\n“In southern countries, the main obstacle to the integration of intermediate levels in the process of territorial environmental governance development is often the dominance of developmentalist inertia in states’ political mindset. The question of the environment has not been effectively integrated in national development planning and programs. Instead, the most common idea is that environmental protection curbs economic and social development, an idea encouraged by the frenzy for exporting raw materials extracted using destructive methods that consume resources and fail to generate any added value.” Of course they are justified in this thinking, as their main concerns are social injustices such as poverty alleviation. Citizens in some of these states have responded by developing empowerment strategies to ease poverty through sustainable development. In addition to this, policymakers must be more aware of these concerns of the global south, and must make sure to integrate a strong focus on social justice in their policies.\n\nAt the global level there are numerous important actors involved in environmental governance and \"a range of institutions contribute to and help define the practice of global environmental governance. The idea of global environmental governance is to govern the environment at a global level through a range of nation states and non state actors such as national governments, NGOs and other international organisations such as UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme). Global environmental governance is the answer to calls for new forms of governance because of the increasing complexity of the international agenda. It is perceived to be an effective form of multilateral management and essential to the international community in meeting goals of mitigation and the possible reversal of the impacts on the global environment. However, a precise definition of global environmental governance is still vague and there are many issues surrounding global governance.\nElliot argues that “the congested institutional terrain still provides more of an appearance than a reality of comprehensive global governance.” This meant that there are too many institutions within the global governance of the environment for it to be completely inclusive and coherent leaving it merely portraying the image of this to the global public. Global environmental governance is about more than simply expanding networks of institutions and decision makers. “It is a political practice which simultaneously reflects, constitutes and masks global relations of power and powerlessness.” State agendas exploit the use of global environmental governance to enhance their oven agendas or wishes even if this is at the detriment of the vital element behind global environmental governance which is the environment. Elliot states that global environmental governance “is neither normatively neutral nor materially benign.”\nAs explored by Newell, report notes by The Global Environmental Outlook noted that the systems of global environmental governance are becoming increasingly irrelevant or impotent due to patterns of globalisation such as; imbalances in productivity and the distribution of goods and services, unsustainable progression of extremes of wealth and poverty and population and economic growth overtaking environmental gains. Newell states that, despite such acknowledgements, the “managing of global environmental change within International Relations continues to look to international regimes for the answers.”\n\nThe literature on governance scale shows how changes in the understanding of environmental issues have led to the movement from a local view to recognising their larger and more complicated scale. This move brought an increase in the diversity, specificity and complexity of initiatives. Meadowcroft pointed out innovations that were layered on top of existing structures and processes, instead of replacing them.\n\nLafferty and Meadowcroft give three examples of multi-tiered governance: internationalisation, increasingly comprehensive approaches, and involvement of multiple governmental entities. Lafferty and Meadowcroft described the resulting multi-tiered system as addressing issues on both smaller and wider scales.\n\nHans Bruyninckx claimed that a mismatch between the scale of the environmental problem and the level of the policy intervention was problematic. Young claimed that such mismatches reduced the effectiveness of interventions. Most of the literature addresses the level of governance rather than ecological scale.\n\nElinor Ostrom, amongst others, claimed that the mismatch is often the cause of unsustainable management practices and that simple solutions to the mismatch have not been identified.\n\nConsiderable debate has addressed the question of which level(s) should take responsibility for fresh water management. Development workers tend to address the problem at the local level. National governments focus on policy issues. This can create conflicts among states because rivers cross borders, leading to efforts to evolve governance of river basins.\n\nSoil and land deterioration reduces its capacity for capturing, storing and recycling water, energy and food. Alliance 21 proposed solutions in the following domains:\n\n\nThe scientific consensus on climate change is expressed in the reports of Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and also in the statements by all major scientific bodies in the United States such as National Academy of Sciences.\n\nThe drivers of climate change can include\n- Changes in solar irradiance\n- Changes in atmospheric trace gas and aerosol concentrations\nEvidence of climate change can be identified by examining\n- Atmospheric concentrations of Green House Gases (GHGs) such as carbon dioxide (CO2)\n- Land and sea surface temperatures\n- Atmospheric water vapor\n- Precipitation\n- The occurrence or strength of extreme weather and climate events\n- Glaciers\n- Rapid sea ice loss\n- Sea level\n\nIt is suggested by climate models that the changes in temperature and sea level can be the causal effects of human activities such as consumption of fossil fuels, deforestation, increased agricultural production and production of xenobiotic gases.\n\nThere has been increasing actions in order to mitigate climate change and reduce its impact at national, regional and international levels. Kyoto protocol and United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) plays the most important role in addressing climate change at an international level.\n\nThe goal of combating climate change led to the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol by 191 states, an agreement encouraging the reduction of greenhouse gases, mainly . Since developed economies produce more emissions per capita, limiting emissions in all countries inhibits opportunities for emerging economies, the only major success in efforts to produce a global response to the phenomenon.\n\nTwo decades following the Brundtland Report, however, there has been no improvement in the key indicators highlighted.\n\nEnvironmental governance for protecting the biodiversity has to act in many levels. Biodiversity is fragile because it is threatened by almost all human actions. To promote conservation of biodiversity, agreements and laws have to be created to regulate agricultural activities, urban growth, industrialization of countries, use of natural resources, control of invasive species, the correct use of water and protection of air quality. Before making any decision for a region or country decision makers, politicians and community have to take into account what are the potential impacts for biodiversity, that any project can have.\n\nPopulation growth and urbanization have been a great contributor for deforestation. Also, population growth requires more intense agricultural areas use, which also results in necessity of new areas to be deforested. This causes habitat loss, which is one of the major threats for biodiversity. Habitat loss and habitat fragmentation affects all species, because they all rely on limited resources, to feed on and to breed.\n\n‘\"Species are genetically unique and irreplaceable their loss is irreversible. Ecosystems vary across a vast range of parameters, and similar ecosystems (whether wetlands, forests, coastal reserves etc) cannot be presumed to be interchangeable, such that the loss of one can be compensated by protection or restoration of another\"’.\n\nTo avoid habitat loss, and consequently biodiversity loss, politicians and lawmakers should be aware of the precautionary principle, which means that before approving a project or law all the pros and cons should be carefully analysed. Sometimes the impacts are not explicit, or not even proved to exist. However, if there is any chance of an irreversible impact happen, it should be taken into consideration.\n\nTo promote environmental governance for biodiversity protection there has to be a clear articulation between values and interests while negotiating environmental management plans. International agreements are good way to have it done right.\n\nThe Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) was signed in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 human activities. The CBD’s objectives are: “to conserve biological diversity, to use biological diversity in a sustainable fashion, to share the benefits of biological diversity fairly and equitably.” The Convention is the first global agreement to address all aspects of biodiversity: genetic resources, species and ecosystems. It recognizes, for the first time, that the conservation of biological diversity is “a common concern for all humanity”. The Convention encourages joint efforts on measures for scientific and technological cooperation, access to genetic resources and the transfer of clean environmental technologies.\n\nThe Convention on Biological Diversity most important edition happened in 2010 when the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011-2020 and the Aichi Targets, were launched. These two projects together make the United Nations decade on Biodiversity. It was held in Japan and has the targets of ‘\"halting and eventually reversing the loss of biodiversity of the planet\"’. The Strategic Plan for Biodiversity has the goal to ‘\"promote its overall vision of living in harmony with nature\"’ As result (...) ‘\"mainstream biodiversity at different levels. Throughout the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity, governments are encouraged to develop, implement and communicate the results of national strategies for implementation of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity\"’. According to the CBD the five Aichi targets are:\n\nThe 2003 UN World Water Development Report claimed that the amount of water available over the next twenty years would drop by 30%.\nIn the same report, it is indicated that in 1998, 2.2 million people died from diarrhoeal diseases. In 2004, the UK’s WaterAid charity reported that one child died every 15 seconds from water-linked diseases.\n\nAccording to Alliance 21 “All levels of water supply management are necessary and independent. The integrated approach to the catchment areas must take into account the needs of irrigation and those of towns, jointly and not separately as is often seen to be the case...The governance of a water supply must be guided by the principles of sustainable development.”\n\nAustralian water resources have always been variable but they are becoming increasingly so with changing climate conditions. Because of how limited water resources are in Australia, there needs to be an effective implementation of environmental governance conducted within the country. Water restrictions are an important policy device used in Australian environmental governance to limit the amount of water used in urban and agricultural environments (Beeton et al. 2006). There is increased pressure on surface water resources in Australia because of the uncontrolled growth in groundwater use and the constant threat of drought. These increased pressures not only affect the quantity and quality of the waterways but they also negatively affect biodiversity. The government needs to create policies that preserve, protect and monitor Australia’s inland water. The most significant environmental governance policy imposed by the Australian government is environmental flow allocations that allocate water to the natural environment. The proper implementation of water trading systems could help to conserve water resources in Australia. Over the years there has been an increase in demand for water, making Australia the third largest per capita user of water in the world (Beeton et al. 2006). If this trend continues, the gap between supply and demand will need to be addressed. The government needs to implement more efficient water allocations and raise water rates (UNEP, 2014). By changing public perception to promote the action of reusing and recycling water some of the stress of water shortages can be alleviated. More extensive solutions like desalination plants, building more dams and using aquifer storage are all options that could be taken to conserve water levels but all these methods are controversial. With caps on surface water use, both urban and rural consumers are turning to groundwater use; this has caused groundwater levels to decline significantly. Groundwater use is very hard to monitor and regulate. There is not enough research currently being conducted to accurately determine sustainable yields. Some regions are seeing improvement in groundwater levels by applying caps on bores and the amount of water that consumers are allowed to extract. There have been projects in environmental governance aimed at restoring vegetation in the riparian zone. Restoring riparian vegetation helps increase biodiversity, reduce salinity, prevent soil erosion and prevent riverbank collapse. Many rivers and waterways are controlled by weirs and locks that control the flow of rivers and also prevent the movement of fish. The government has funded fish-ways on some weirs and locks to allow for native fish to move upstream. Wetlands have significantly suffered under restricted water resources with water bird numbers dropping and a decrease in species diversity. The allocation of water for bird breeding through environmental flows in Macquarie Marshes has led to an increase in breeding (Beeton et al. 2006). Because of dry land salinity throughout Australia there has been an increase in the levels of salt in Australian waterways. There has been funding in salt interception schemes which help to improve in-stream salinity levels but whether river salinity has improved or not is still unclear because there is not enough data available yet. High salinity levels are dangerous because they can negatively affect larval and juvenile stages of certain fish. The introduction of invasive species into waterways has negatively affected native aquatic species because invasive species compete with native species and alter natural habitats. There has been research in producing daughterless carp to help eradicate carp. Government funding has also gone into building in-stream barriers that trap the carp and prevent them from moving into floodplains and wetlands. Investment in national and regional programmes like the Living Murray (MDBC), Healthy Waterways Partnership and the Clean Up the Swan Programme are leading to important environmental governance. The Healthy Rivers programme promotes restoration and recovery of environmental flows, riparian re-vegetation and aquatic pest control. The Living Murray programme has been crucial for the allocation of water to the environment by creating an agreement to recover 500 billion litres of water to the Murray River environment. Environmental governance and water resource management in Australia must be constantly monitored and adapted to suit the changing environmental conditions within the country (Beeton et al. 2006). If environmental programmes are governed with transparency there can be a reduction in policy fragmentation and an increase in policy efficiency (Mclntyre, 2010). In Arab countries, the extensive use of water for agriculture also needs critical attention since agriculture in this region has less contribution for its national income. \n\nOn 16 September 1987 the United Nations General Assembly signed the Montreal Protocol to address the declining ozone layer. Since that time, the use of chlorofluorocarbons (industrial refrigerants and aerosols) and farming fungicides such as methyl bromide has mostly been eliminated, although other damaging gases are still in use.\n\nThe Nuclear non-proliferation treaty is the primary multilateral agreement governing nuclear activity.\n\nGenetically modified organisms are not the subject of any major multilateral agreements. They are the subject of various restrictions at other levels of governance. GMOs are in widespread use in the US, but are heavily restricted in many other jurisdictions.\n\nControversies have ensued over golden rice, genetically modified salmon, genetically modified seeds, disclosure and other topics.\n\nThe precautionary principle or precautionary approach states that if an action or policy has a suspected risk of causing harm to the public or to the environment, in the absence of scientific consensus that the action or policy is harmful, the burden of proof that it is not harmful falls on those taking an action. As of 2013 it was not the basis of major multilateral agreements.\nThe Precautionary Principle is put into effect if there is a chance that proposed action may cause harm to the society or the environment. Therefore, those involved in the proposed action must provide evidence that it will not be harmful, even if scientists do not believe that it will cause harm. It falls upon the policymakers to make the optimal decision, if there is any risk, even without any credible scientific evidence. However, taking precautionary action also means that there is an element of cost involved, either social or economic. So if the cost was seen as insignificant the action would be taken without the implementation of the precautionary principle. But often the cost is ignored, which can lead to harmful repercussions. This is often the case with industry and scientists who are primarily concerned with protecting their own interests.\n\nLeading experts have emphasized on the importance of taking into account the security aspects the environment and natural resources will cause. The twenty-first century is looking into a future with an increase in mass migrations of refugees, wars and praetorian regimes caused by the effect of environmental degradation such as water scarcity, deforestation and soil erosion, air pollution and, climate change effects such as rising sea levels. For a long time, foreign-policy challenges have focused on social causes as being the only reason for social and political changes. However, it is a crucial moment to understand and take into consideration the security implications that environmental stress will bring to the current political and social structure around the globe.\n\nThe main multilateral conventions, also known as Rio Conventions, are as follows:\n\nConvention on Biological Diversity (CBD) (1992–1993): aims to conserve biodiversity. Related agreements include the Cartagena Protocol on biosafety.\n\nUnited Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) (1992–1994): aims to stabilize concentrations of greenhouse gases at a level that would stabilize the climate system without threatening food production, and enabling the pursuit of sustainable economic development; it incorporates the Kyoto Protocol.\n\nUnited Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) (1994–1996): aims to combat desertification and mitigate the effects of drought and desertification, in developing countries (Though initially the convention was primarily meant for Africa).\n\nFurther conventions:\n\nThe Rio Conventions are characterized by:\n\n\nEnvironmental conventions are regularly criticized for their:\n\n\nUntil now, the formulation of environmental policies at the international level has been divided by theme, sector or territory, resulting in treaties that overlap or clash. International attempts to coordinate environment institutions, include the Inter-Agency Coordination Committee and the Commission for Sustainable Development, but these institutions are not powerful enough to effectively incorporate the three aspects of sustainable development.\n\nMEAs are agreements between several countries that apply internationally or regionally and concern a variety of environmental questions. As of 2013 over 500 Multilateral Environmental Agreements (MEAs), including 45 of global scope involve at least 72 signatory countries. Further agreements cover regional environmental problems, such as deforestation in Borneo or pollution in the Mediterranean. Each agreement has a specific mission and objectives ratified by multiple states.\n\nMany Multilateral Environmental Agreements have been negotiated with the support from the United Nations Environmental Programme and work towards the achievement of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals as a means to instil sustainable practices for the environment and its people. Multilateral Environmental Agreements are considered to present enormous opportunities for greener societies and economies which can deliver numerous benefits in addressing food, energy and water security and in achieving sustainable development. These agreements can be implemented on a global or regional scale, for example the issues surrounding the disposal of hazardous waste can be implemented on a regional level as per the Bamako Convention on the Ban of the Import into Africa and the Control of Transboundary Movement and Management of Hazardous Waste within Africa which applies specifically to Africa, or the global approach to hazardous waste such as the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal which is monitored throughout the world.\n\n“The environmental governance structure defined by the Rio and Johannesburg Summits is sustained by UNEP, MEAs and developmental organizations and consists of assessment and policy development, as well as project implementation at the country level.\n\n\"The governance structure consists of a chain of phases:\n\n\n\"Traditionally, UNEP has focused on the normative role of engagement in the first three\nphases. Phases (d) to (f) are covered by MEAs and the sustainable development phase involves developmental organizations such as UNDP and the World Bank.”\n\nLack of coordination affects the development of coherent governance. The report shows that donor states support development organizations, according to their individual interests. They do not follow a joint plan, resulting in overlaps and duplication. MEAs tend not to become a joint frame of reference and therefore receive little financial support. States and organizations emphasize existing regulations rather than improving and adapting them.\n\nThe risks associated with nuclear fission raised global awareness of environmental threats. The 1963 Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty prohibiting atmospheric nuclear testing was the beginning of the globalization of environmental issues. Environmental law began to be modernized and coordinated with the Stockholm Conference (1972), backed up in 1980 by the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. The Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer was signed and ratified in 1985. In 1987, 24 countries signed the Montreal Protocol which imposed the gradual withdrawal of CFCs.\n\nThe Brundtland Report, published in 1987 by the UN Commission on Environment and Development, stipulated the need for economic development that “meets the needs of the present without compromising the capacity of future generations to meet their needs.\n\nThe United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED), better known as the 1992 Earth Summit, was the first major international meeting since the end of the Cold War and was attended by delegations from 175 countries. Since then the biggest international conferences that take place every 10 years guided the global governance process with a series of MEAs. Environmental treaties are applied with the help of secretariats.\n\nGovernments created international treaties in the 1990s to check global threats to the environment. These treaties are far more restrictive than global protocols and set out to change non-sustainable production and consumption models.\n\nAgenda 21 is a detailed plan of actions to be implemented at the global, national and local levels by UN organizations, member states and key individual groups in all regions. Agenda 21 advocates making sustainable development a legal principle law. At the local level, local Agenda 21 advocates an inclusive, territory-based strategic plan, incorporating sustainable environmental and social policies.\n\nThe Agenda has been accused of using neoliberal principles, including free trade to achieve environmental goals. For example, chapter two, entitled “International Cooperation to Accelerate Sustainable Development in Developing Countries and Related Domestic Policies” states, “The international economy should provide a supportive international climate for achieving environment and development goals by: promoting sustainable development through trade liberalization.”\n\nThe UNEP has had its biggest impact as a monitoring and advisory body, and in developing environmental agreements. It has also contributed to strengthening the institutional capacity of environment ministries.\n\nIn 2002 UNEP held a conference to focus on product lifecycle impacts, emphasizing the fashion, advertising, financial and retail industries, seen as key agents in promoting sustainable consumption.\n\nAccording to Ivanova, UNEP adds value in environmental monitoring, scientific assessment and information sharing, but cannot lead all environmental management processes. She proposed the following tasks for UNEP:\n\n\nOther proposals offer a new mandate to “produce greater unity amongst social and environmental agencies, so that the concept of ‘environment for development’ becomes a reality. It needs to act as a platform for establishing standards and for other types of interaction with national and international organizations and the United Nations. The principles of cooperation and common but differentiated responsibilities should be reflected in the application of this revised mandate.”\n\nSherman proposed principles to strengthen UNEP:\n\n\nAnother group stated, “Consider the specific needs of developing countries and respect of the fundamental principle of 'common but differentiated responsibilities'. Developed countries should promote technology transfer, new and additional financial resources, and capacity building for meaningful participation of developing countries in international environmental governance. Strengthening of international environmental governance should occur in the context of sustainable development and should involve civil society as an important stakeholder and agent of transformation.”\n\nCreated in 1991, the Global Environment Facility is an independent financial organization initiated by donor governments including Germany and France. It was the first financial organization dedicated to the environment at the global level. As of 2013 it had 179 members. Donations are used for projects covering biodiversity, climate change, international waters, destruction of the ozone layer, soil degradation and persistent organic pollutants.\n\nGEF's institutional structure includes UNEP, UNDP and the World Bank. It is the funding mechanism for the four environmental conventions: climate change, biodiversity, persistent organic pollutants and desertification. GEF transfers resources from developed countries to developing countries to fund UNDP, UNEP and World Bank projects. The World Bank manages the annual budget of US$561.10 million.\n\nThe GEF has been criticized for its historic links with the World Bank, at least during its first phase during the 1990s, and for having favoured certain regions to the detriment of others. Another view sees it as contributing to the emergence of a global \"green market\". It represents “an adaptation (of the World Bank) to this emerging world order, as a response to the emergence of environmental movements that are becoming a geopolitical force.” Developing countries demanded financial transfers to help them protect their environment.\n\nGEF is subject to economic profitability criteria, as is the case for all the conventions. It received more funds in its first three years than the UNEP has since its creation in 1972. GEF funding represents less than 1% of development aid between 1992 and 2002.\n\nThis intergovernmental institution meets twice a year to assess follow-up on Rio Summit goals. The CSD is made up of 53 member states, elected every three years and was reformed in 2004 to help improve implementation of Agenda 21. It meets twice a year, focusing on a specific theme during each two-year period: 2004-2005 was dedicated to water and 2006-2007 to climate change. The CSD has been criticized for its low impact, general lack of presence and the absence of Agenda 21 at the state level specifically, according to a report by the World Resources Institute. Its mission focuses on sequencing actions and establishing agreements puts it in conflict with institutions such as UNEP and OECD.\n\nA proposed World Environment Organization, analogous to the World Health Organization could be capable of adapting treaties and enforcing international standards.\n\nThe European Union, particularly France and Germany, and a number of NGOs favour creating a WEO. The United Kingdom, the US and most developing countries prefer to focus on voluntary initiatives. WEO partisans maintain that it could offer better political leadership, improved legitimacy and more efficient coordination. Its detractors argue that existing institutions and missions already provide appropriate environmental governance; however the lack of coherence and coordination between them and the absence of clear division of responsibilities prevents them from greater effectiveness.\n\nThe World Bank influences environmental governance through other actors, particularly the GEF. The World Bank’s mandate is not sufficiently defined in terms of environmental governance despite the fact that it is included in its mission. However, it allocates 5 to 10% of its annual funds to environmental projects. The institution's capitalist vocation means that its investment is concentrated solely in areas which are profitable in terms of cost benefits, such as climate change action and ozone layer protection, whilst neglecting other such as adapting to climate change and desertification. Its financial autonomy means that it can make its influence felt indirectly on the creation of standards, and on international and regional negotiations.\n\nFollowing intense criticism in the 1980s for its support for destructive projects which, amongst other consequences, caused deforestation of tropical forests, the World Bank drew up its own environment-related standards in the 1990s so it could correct its actions. These standards differ from UNEP’s standards, meant to be the benchmark, thus discrediting the institution and sowing disorder and conflict in the world of environmental governance. Other financial institutions, regional development banks and the private sector also drew up their own standards. Criticism is not directed at the World Bank’s standards in themselves, which Najam considered as “robust”, but at their legitimacy and efficacy.\n\nThe GEF's account of itself as of 2012 is as \"the largest public funder of projects to improve the global environment\", period, which \"provides grants for projects related to biodiversity, climate change, international waters, land degradation, the ozone layer, and persistent organic pollutants.\" It claims to have provided \"$10.5 billion in grants and leveraging $51 billion in co-financing for over 2,700 projects in over 165 countries [and] made more than 14,000 small grants directly to civil society and community-based organizations, totaling $634 million.\" It serves as mechanism for the:\nThis mandate reflects the restructured GEF as of October 2011 .\n\nThe WTO’s mandate does not include a specific principle on the environment. All the problems linked to the environment are treated in such a way as to give priority to trade requirements and the principles of the WTO’s own trade system. This produces conflictual situations. Even if the WTO recognizes the existence of MEAs, it denounces the fact that around 20 MEAs are in conflict with the WTO’s trade regulations. Furthermore, certain MEAs can allow a country to ban or limit trade in certain products if they do not satisfy established environmental protection requirements. In these circumstances, if one country’s ban relating to another country concerns two signatories of the same MEA, the principles of the treaty can be used to resolve the disagreement, whereas if the country affected by the trade ban with another country has not signed the agreement, the WTO demands that the dispute be resolved using the WTO’s trade principles, in other words, without taking into account the environmental consequences.\n\nSome criticisms of the WTO mechanisms may be too broad. In a recently dispute over labelling of dolphin safe labels for tuna between the US and Mexico, the ruling was relatively narrow and did not, as some critics claimed,\n\nThe IMF’s mission is \"to ensure the stability of the international monetary system\".\n\nThe IMF Green Fund proposal of Dominique Strauss-Kahn specifically to address \"climate-related shocks in Africa\", despite receiving serious attention was rejected. Strauss-Kahn's proposal, backed by France and Britain, was that \"developed countries would make an initial capital injection into the fund using some of the $176 billion worth of SDR allocations from last year in exchange for a stake in the green fund.\" However, \"most of the 24 directors ... told Strauss-Kahn that climate was not part of the IMF's mandate and that SDR allocations are a reserve asset never intended for development issues.\"\n\nThe UN's main body for coordinating municipal and urban decision-making is named the International Council for Local Environmental Initiatives. Its slogan is \"Local Governments for Sustainability\".\nThis body sponsored the concept of full cost accounting that makes environmental governance the foundation of other governance.\n\nICLEIs projects and achievements include:\n\nICLEI promotes best practice exchange among municipal governments globally, especially green infrastructure, sustainable procurement.\n\nOther international institutions incorporate environmental governance in their action plans, including:\n\n\nOver 30 UN agencies and programmes support environmental management, according to Najam. This produces a lack of coordination, insufficient exchange of information and dispersion of responsibilities. It also results in proliferation of initiatives and rivalry between them.\n\nAccording to Bauer, Busch and Siebenhüner, the different conventions and multilateral agreements of global environmental regulation is increasing their secretariats' influence. Influence varies according to bureaucratic and leadership efficiency, choice of technical or client-centered.\n\nThe United Nations is often the target of criticism, including from within over the multiplication of secretariats due to the chaos it produces. Using a separate secretariat for each MEA creates enormous overhead given the 45 international-scale and over 500 other agreements.\n\nEnvironmental protection has created opportunities for mutual and collective monitoring among neighbouring states. The European Union provides an example of the institutionalization of joint regional and state environmental governance. Key areas include information, led by the European Environment Agency (EEA), and the production and monitoring of norms by states or local institutions.\nSee also the Environmental policy of the European Union.\n\nUS refusal to ratify major environment agreements produced tensions with ratifiers in Europe and Japan.\n\nThe World Bank, IMF and other institutions are dominated by the developed countries and do not always properly consider the requirements of developing countries.\n\nEnvironmental governance applies to business as well as government. Considerations are typical of those in other domains:\n\n\nWhite and Klernan among others discuss the correlation between environmental governance and financial performance. This correlation is higher in sectors where environmental impacts are greater.\n\nBusiness environmental issues include emissions, biodiversity, historical liabilities, product and material waste/recycling, energy use/supply and many others.\n\nEnvironmental governance has become linked to traditional corporate governance as an increasing number of shareholders are corporate environmental impacts. Corporate governance is the set of processes, customs, policies, laws, and institutions affecting the way a corporation (or company) is managed. Corporate governance is affected by the relationships among stakeholders. These stakeholders research and quantify performance to compare and contrast the environmental performance of thousands of companies.\n\nLarge corporations with global supply chains evaluate the environmental performance of business partners and suppliers for marketing and ethical reasons. Some consumers seek environmentally friendly and sustainable products and companies.\n\nAccording to Bäckstrand and Saward, “broader participation by non-state actors in multilateral environmental decisions (in varied roles such as agenda setting, campaigning, lobbying, consultation, monitoring, and implementation) enhances the democratic legitimacy of environmental governance.”\n\nLocal activism is capable of gaining the support of the people and authorities to combat environmental degradatation. In Cotacachi, Ecuador, a social movement used a combination of education, direct action, the influence of local public authorities and denunciation of the mining company’s plans in its own country, Canada, and the support of international environmental groups to influence mining activity.\n\nFisher cites cases in which multiple strategies were used to effect change. She describes civil society groups that pressure international institutions and also organize local events. Local groups can take responsibility for environmental governance in place of governments.\n\nAccording to Bengoa, “social movements have contributed decisively to the creation of an institutional platform wherein the fight against poverty and exclusion has become an inescapable benchmark.” But despite successes in this area, “these institutional changes have not produced the processes for transformation that could have made substantial changes to the opportunities available to rural inhabitants, particularly the poorest and those excluded from society.” He cites several reasons:\n\n\nA successful initiative in Ecuador involved the establishment of stakeholder federations and management committees (NGOs, communities, municipalities and the ministry) for the management of a protected forest.\n\nThe International Institute for Sustainable Development proposed an agenda for global governance. These objectives are:\n\n\nDespite the increase in efforts, actors, agreements and treaties, the global environment continue to degrade at a rapid rate. From the big hole in Earth’s ozone layer to over-fishing to the uncertainties of climate change, the world is confronted by several intrinsically global challenges. However, as the environmental agenda becomes more complicated and extensive, the current system has proven ineffective in addressing and tackling problems related to trans-boundary externalities and the environment is still experiencing degradation at unprecedented levels.\n\nInforesources identifies four major obstacles to global environmental governance, and describes measures in response. The four obstacles are:\n\n\nRecommended measures:\n\n\nContemporary debates surrounding global environmental governance have converged on the idea of developing a stronger and more effective institutional framework. The views on how to achieve this, however, still hotly debated. Currently, rather than teaming up with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), international environmental responsibilities have been spread across many different agencies including: a) specialised agencies within the UN system such as the World Meteorological Organisation, the International Maritime Organisation and others; b) the programs in the UN system such as the UN Development Program; c) the UN regional economic and social commission; d) the Bretton Woods institutions; e) the World Trade Organisation and; f) the environmentally focused mechanisms such as the Global Environment Facility and close to 500 international environmental agreements.\n\nSome analysts also argue that multiple institutions and some degree of overlap and duplication in policies is necessary to ensure maximum output from the system. Others, however, claim that institutions have become too dispersed and lacking in coordination which can be damaging to their effectiveness in global environmental governance. Whilst there are various arguments for and against a WEO, the key challenge, however, remains the same: how to develop a rational and effective framework that will protect the global environment efficiently.\n\nStarting in 2002, Saward and others began to view the Earth Summit process as capable opening up the possibility of stakeholder democracy. The summits were deliberative rather than simply participative, with NGOs, women, men, indigenous peoples and businesses joining the decision-making process alongside states and international organizations, characterized by:\n\n\nAs of 2013, the absence of joint rules for composing such fora leads to the development of non-transparent relations that favour the more powerful stakeholders. Criticisms assert that they act more as a lobbying platform, wherein specific interest groups attempt to influence governments.\n\nActors inside and outside the United Nations are discussing possibilities for global environmental governance that provides a solution to current problems of fragility, coordination and coherence. Deliberation is focusing on the goal of making UNEP more efficient. A 2005 resolution recognizes “the need for more efficient environmental activities in the United Nations system, with enhanced coordination, improved policy advice and guidance, strengthened scientific knowledge, assessment and cooperation, better treaty compliance, while respecting the legal autonomy of the treaties, and better integration of environmental activities in the broader sustainable development framework.”\n\nProposals include:\n\n\nOne of the main studies addressing this issue proposes:\n\n\nA 2001 Alliance 21 report proposes six fields of action:\n\n\nIndividuals can modify consumption, based on voluntary simplicity: changes in purchasing habits, simplified lifestyles (less work, less consumption, more socialization and constructive leisure time). But individual actions must not replace vigilance and pressure on policies. Notions of responsible consumption developed over decades, revealing the political nature of individual purchases, according to the principle that consumption should satisfy the population’s basic needs. These needs comprise the physical wellbeing of individuals and society, a healthy diet, access to drinking water and plumbing, education, healthcare and physical safety. The general attitude centres on the need to reduce consumption and reuse and recycle materials. In the case of food consumption, local, organic and fair trade products which avoid ill treatment of animals has become a major trend.\n\nAlternatives to the personal automobile are increasing, including public transport, car sharing and bicycles and alternative propulsion systems.\n\nAlternative energy sources are becoming less costly.\n\nEcological industrial processes turn the waste from one industry into raw materials for another.\n\nGovernments can reduce subsidies/increase taxes/tighten regulation on unsustainable activities.\n\nThe Community Environmental governance Global Alliance encourages holistic approaches to environmental and economic challenges, incorporating indigenous knowledge. Okotoks, Alberta capped population growth based on the carrying capacity of the Sheep River. The Fraser Basin Council Watershed Governance in British Columbia, Canada, manages issues that span municipal jurisdictions. Smart Growth is an international movement that employs key tenets of Environmental governance in urban planning.\n\nEstablish policies and regulations that promote “infrastructures for well being” whilst addressing the political, physical and cultural levels.\n\nEliminate subsidies that have a negative environmental impact and tax pollution\n\nPromoting workers’ personal and family development.\n\nA programme of national workshops on synergies between the three Rio Conventions launched in late 2000, in collaboration with the relevant secretariats. The goal was to strengthen coordination at the local level by:\n\n\nAccording to Campbell, “In the context of globalization, the question of linking up environmental themes with other subjects, such as trade, investment and conflict resolution mechanisms, as well as the economic incentives to participate in and apply agreements would seem to provide an important lesson for the effective development of environmental governance structures.” Environmental concerns would become part of the global economic system. “These problems also contain the seeds of a new generation of international conflicts that could affect both the stability of international relations and collective security. Which is why the concept of ‘collective security’ has arisen.”\n\nMoving local decisions to the global level is as important as the way in which local initiatives and best practices are part of a global system. Kanie points out that NGOs, scientists, international institutions and stakeholder partnerships can reduce the distance that separates the local and international levels.\n\n"}
{"id": "3679020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3679020", "title": "Fiji Mission to the European Union", "text": "Fiji Mission to the European Union\n\nThe Fiji Mission to the European Union is responsible for Fiji's diplomatic relations with the European Union and with all member countries, except those with which Fiji maintains specific diplomatic relations, such as the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Mission, which was first established in July 1973, is based in Brussels, Belgium, and doubles as Fiji's Embassy to Belgium. The Head of Mission to the European Union, currently [H.E Mr Deo Saran], also holds the title of Ambassador to Belgium. He is assisted by Counsellor ([[Mr Nidhendra Pratap SINGH] , who is responsible for [[agriculture]] and [[trade]]) and First Secretary, Mr Mesake LEDUA. In addition, there are three supporting staff.\n\nThe main focus of the Mission is to promote Fiji's trading interests and gain markets for Fiji's [[sugar]] through such agreements as the [[Lome Convention]] and the [[Cotonou Agreement]]. It has also helped negotiate [[tariff]] concessions and preferential market quotas for the export of garments and canned [[tuna]] to European countries.\n\nThe following individuals have held office as Head of Mission to the European Union.\n\n[[Category:European Union-related lists]]\n[[Category:Foreign relations of Fiji|European Mission]]\n[[Category:Third-country relations of the European Union]]\n[[Category:Diplomatic missions in Brussels]]"}
{"id": "18716281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18716281", "title": "George Philip (cartographer)", "text": "George Philip (cartographer)\n\nGeorge Philip (1800–1882) was a cartographer, map publisher and founder of the publishing house George Philip & Son Ltd.\n\nGeorge Philip was born in Huntly, Aberdeenshire to a staunchly Calvinist family. In 1819 George traveled to Liverpool where his brother Robert, who was a nonconformist minister, lived. Here George made his home and in 1819 George became assistant to the Liverpool bookseller, William Grapel. In 1834, Philip set up his own business as a bookseller and stationer in Paradise Street, Liverpool. He rapidly expanded the business by producing books, particularly educational works and maps. Within his first year of trading to keep up with demand he had to move his business into larger premises at the Atlas Buildings in South Castle Street. George and his wife Jane had a daughter Jane Jr. (born 1827) and one son, George Jr. (1823–1902). In 1848, George Jr. was admitted as a partner into the family publishing business now called George Philip & Son Ltd.\n\nDuring the early 1840s George Philip opened and ran a bookseller's and stationer's shop in South Castle Street, Liverpool, and it was during this period he laid the foundations for building and expanding his publishing empire from which he would eventually amass a substantial fortune. His son George Jr., along with his nephew Thomas Dash Philip (1829-1913), and Philip's daughter Jane Jr. (who served behind the counter), assisted him in the shop at South Castle Street. Both George Jr. and Thomas would, in time, head the family-run business. In 1851 the England Census shows George Philip senior and his family resided in a grand town house at 21 Great George Square, Westside, situated in Liverpool's prestigious and affluent Georgian quarter. \nGeorge's nephew Thomas Dash Philip is also living with the family. The Philip's also employ two live-in servants to assist George's wife Jane with the day-to-day running of the household. In 1856, George Philip & Son Ltd. opened a house at 32 Fleet Street, London, where they sold their geographical and educational publications. They would later also occupy the premises next door at numbers 31 and 30 Fleet Street. In 1859, the company took over the extensive pile known as Caxton Buildings in South John Street, Liverpool, which became the company's headquarters in the city. With the establishment of their printing works in Caxton Buildings, new power-driven machinery gave the company the capacity to increase production.\n\nPhilip used cartographers such as John Bartholomew the elder, August Petermann, and William Hughes to produce maps on copper plates. Philip then had these printed and hand-coloured by his women tinters. By the time he produced his county maps of 1862 he was using machine coloured maps produced on power-driven lithographic presses. 'His maps ranged from the expensive Imperial Library Atlas (1864) to an atlas costing as little as 3d. and, although the bulk of his production was for the commercial, and particularly the educational market, he also produced important scientific maps, notably of North America, especially the Arctic and Pacific Northwest, and of the West Indies.' The firm supplied atlases, geographical and history books, school textbooks, and an array of educational books and equipment. The company also produced textbooks for overseas countries, starting with an atlas for Australian schools in 1865 and for New Zealand in 1869. The demand from board schools, established after 1870, enabled further expansion in the market for general textbooks, school stationery, atlases and wall maps, etc. Philip also employed many noted writers including the geographer and historian John Francon Williams who wrote, compiled and edited many books for the company from 1881 over a 20-year period.\nIn 1867, a descriptive account of Philip Son & Nephew, based at Atlas and Victoria Buildings, 45-51 South Castle Street, Liverpool, was written up in the book \"Liverpool of Today, The Maritime Metropolis of the World\", published by Historical Publishing Company. ‘This well-known emporium may be aptly designated the great Liverpool depot for all the aids to learning, mental instruction, and useful knowledge. It would be superfluous for us to say anything in praise of an establishment, which has been universally recognized as the leading house of its class in the provinces. In addition to the extensive premises in South Castle Street the firm have a wholesale warehouse, occupying the whole of Caxton Buildings in South John Street, which is carried on under the style of George Philip and Son, paper manufacturers, wholesale, export, and manufacturing stationers. This is a noble pile of buildings, five stories in height. An idea of the extent of the business done here may be gathered from the fact that over 300 hands are employed on the premises. The firm manufacture account books of every description and undertake to make them to order. Their general stock is very large and in great variety. Philip Son and Nephew have classified their business under nine distinct heads': \n'It would be impossible, within the limits we have at command, to do justice to a firm like Philip Son and Nephew, by mentioning even a tithe of the articles they keep in stock, much less giving a minute description of them. The premises occupied by the firm in South Castle Street (on the site of Old Pool Lane) are of very considerable size, having been enlarged from time to time during the last twenty years, by taking in adjoining properties, so that now they cover a wide area. They are of attractive appearance externally, and internally they are very handsome, being fitted up in superior style throughout, and arranged with every regard for the comfort and convenience of visitors. The firm have opened a showroom on the ground floor of the premises for the sale of school books and school stationery, and another portion of the building is devoted to school furniture of every description, maps, diagrams, and wall prints, and the other sections of the establishment are judiciously sub-divided, so that there is a separate department for each class of goods. A large and intelligent staff of assistants (about forty in number) are employed. The firm have issued a series of tourist and travelling maps, and maps and road books for cyclists, and they keep in stock guide books to all parts of the world. The business in South Castle Street was established in 1835, and its growth has kept pace with the increase and prosperity of Liverpool. The firm also have a very large and flourishing establishment at 32 Fleet Street, London, EC, which is carried on under the style of George Philip & Son.'\n\nIn 1879 George Philip senior retired from the business to his country home The Retreat, in Bickley, Kent. Three years later on 3 October 1882, George Philip senior died at Huntly House, Lilley Road, Fairfield, Liverpool, at the home of one of his executors, the merchant James Askins Crowe. George Philip senior is buried alongside his wife Jane at Toxteth Park Cemetery (general section M, grave 40). George Philip’s estate upon his death was valued at £95,102 5s. 6d (the equivalent in 2018 to £11 million +). In October 1882 George Philip Jr. took over as head of the company. By this time the family firm had expanded to such a degree that George Philip Jr. now ran three companies; George Philip & Son Ltd., Philip and Company Ltd. based in South John Street, Liverpool, and Philip, Son and Nephew, based in South Castle Street, Liverpool. Over the following 20 years the companies continued to prosper greatly under the helm of George Philip Jr.\n\nOn 30 May 1902, George Philip the younger aged 78 died, leaving an estate valued at £112,314 16s 7d gross (2018 equivalent value would be over £13 million), including the personal net value of £78,914 16s 4d. ‘The funeral of Mr. George Philip (Jr.), who died several days ago at Southport, took place at Smithdown Road Cemetery (renamed Toxteth Park Cemetery) yesterday (3 June 1902). Long resident at Huntley House, Lilley Road, Fairfield, he was the head of the three widely known firms (in the city) of Philip and Co. Ltd. (of South John Street), George Philip and Son (of Hope Street), and Philip, Son and Nephew (of South Castle Street). (Among) the chief mourners were Thomas Dash Philip, T. N. Philip, George Stanley Philip, George Philip and Joseph Collyer. Amongst the general body of mourners, who included a large number of employees, were Colonel Whitney V.D., Captain J. Macnab R.N.R., and Messrs., T. I. Lloyd, R. Tunnicliffe, J. Fitzgerald, writer John Francon Williams, C. F. Bell, W. A. Webb and John S. Arthur.\n\nThereafter Thomas Dash Philip took control of the three firms.\n\nIn Liverpool, apart from Admiralty House, Philip Son & Nephew Ltd. were the only company to keep all the Admiralty charts and books. As such, the company had for many years conducted business with the large shipping lines based in the city including White Star Line and Cunard. In 1912, as with other White Star passenger liners, when \"RMS Titanic\" was being fitted out for its inaugural Atlantic crossing, her navigational charts and sailing directions were supplied by Philip, Son & Nephew Ltd., ‘booksellers, mercantile and export stationers, map, chart and educational publishers etc.’ of 45-51 South Castle Street, Liverpool. J. Bruce Ismay, chairman and managing director of the White Star Line and a passenger on and a survivor of the \"RMS Titanic\" sinking, also bought his personal stationery from Philip, Son & Nephew Ltd. A letter survives in the J. Bruce Ismay archive in the Maritime Archives and Library (National Museum Liverpool) from a Mr. Radcliffe acknowledging receipt of a receipt from Philip, Son & Nephew Ltd., for mercantile stationery for Ismay's mansion ‘Sandheys’ in Mossley Hill Road, Liverpool.\n\nA rare photograph of the interior of George Philip & Son Ltd. taken in 1917 exists in the Getty Images Archive that shows various employees in the process of assembling globes. During this period the company was producing a large amount of globes in all sizes including the unusual and unique Betts's Portable Terrestrial Collapsible Globe. In 1927, George Philip and Son Ltd. produced a unique map of Europe marked with the paths of totality for all total solar eclipses visible in this area during the 20th century. The map was modified by the drawing office of the Science Museum for an exhibition held in 1927. The display at the Science Museum in South Kensington was to celebrate the total solar eclipse that was going to pass over North Wales and North West England that year. The company opened several new branches including 1 Dee Lane, West Kirby, 34 and later 54 Brows Lane, Formby, and 79 Lord Street, Southport. In 1947, John Keith Stanford, owner of Stanfords bookshop and publishing house in Covent Garden, London, decided to sell the company to George Philip & Son Ltd. In 1949, British Pathé produced \"Globe Making\", a short newsreel that shows the art of making a globe. The black and white film is shot in a globe-making factory in Willesden, North West London, thought to belong to George Philip & Son Ltd. In 1955, British Pathé revisited the same Willesden, North West London factory to shoot \"Globe Making: How the World is Made\", a colour newsreel also showing the art of globe making. The films give a fascinating insight into the art of making a globe by hand.\n\nGeorge Philip & Son Ltd. continued to operate independently for over 140 years until the company was sold in 1987 to Reed International where it continued to trade as George Philip Ltd. In 1998, following a management buy-out of the Illustrated books division, Philip's became part of the Octopus Publishing Group. Hachette Livre acquired the group in 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2277192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2277192", "title": "Geotextile", "text": "Geotextile\n\nGeotextiles are permeable fabrics which, when used in association with soil, have the ability to separate, filter, reinforce, protect, or drain. Typically made from polypropylene or polyester, geotextile fabrics come in three basic forms: woven (resembling mail bag sacking), needle punched (resembling felt), or heat bonded (resembling ironed felt).\n\nGeotextile composites have been introduced and products such as geogrids and meshes have been developed. Geotextiles are able to withstand many things, are durable, and are able to soften a fall if someone falls down. Overall, these materials are referred to as geosynthetics and each configuration—geonets, geosynthetic clay liners, geogrids, geotextile tubes, and others—can yield benefits in geotechnical and environmental engineering design.\n\nGeotextiles were originally intended to be an alternative to granular soil filters. The original, and still sometimes used, term for geotextiles is \"filter fabrics\". Work originally began in the 1950s with R.J. Barrett using geotextiles behind precast concrete seawalls, under precast concrete erosion control blocks, beneath large stone riprap, and in other erosion control situations. He used different styles of woven monofilament fabrics, all characterized by a relatively high percentage open area (varying from 6 to 30%). He discussed the need for both adequate permeability and soil retention, along with adequate fabric strength and proper elongation and set the tone for geotextile use in filtration situations.\n\nGeotextiles and related products have many applications and currently support many civil engineering applications including roads, airfields, railroads, embankments, retaining structures, reservoirs, canals, dams, bank protection, coastal engineering and construction site silt fences or geotube. Usually geotextiles are placed at the tension surface to strengthen the soil. Geotextiles are also used for sand dune armoring to protect upland coastal property from storm surge, wave action and flooding. A large sand-filled container (SFC) within the dune system prevents storm erosion from proceeding beyond the SFC. Using a sloped unit rather than a single tube eliminates damaging scour.\n\nErosion control manuals comment on the effectiveness of sloped, stepped shapes in mitigating shoreline erosion damage from storms. Geotextile sand-filled units provide a \"soft\" armoring solution for upland property protection. Geotextiles are used as matting to stabilize flow in stream channels and swales.\n\nGeotextiles can improve soil strength at a lower cost than conventional soil nailing. In addition, geotextiles allow planting on steep slopes, further securing the slope.\n\nGeotextiles have been used to protect the fossil hominid footprints of Laetoli in Tanzania from erosion, rain, and tree roots.\n\nIn building demolition, geotextile fabrics in combination with steel wire fencing can contain explosive debris.\n\nCoir (coconut fiber) geotextiles are popular for erosion control, slope stabilization and bioengineering, due to the fabric's substantial mechanical strength. Coir geotextiles last approximately 3 to 5 years depending on the fabric weight. The product degrades into humus, enriching the soil.\n\nWhile many possible design methods or combinations of methods are available to the geotextile designer, the ultimate decision for a particular application usually takes one of three directions: design by cost and availability, design by specification, or design by function. Extensive literature on design methods for geotextiles has been published in the peer reviewed journal \"Geotextiles and Geomembranes\".\n\n\nJual Geotextile\nJual Geotextile\nJual Geotextile\n\n"}
{"id": "23748859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23748859", "title": "Guma Aguiar", "text": "Guma Aguiar\n\nGuma Leandro Aguiar (May 31, 1977 – disappeared June 19, 2012; declared legally dead January 29, 2015) was a Brazilian-born American energy industrialist and millionaire businessman who split his time between the United States and Israel. Aguiar was recognized as a philanthropist who supported a variety of Jewish causes including Nefesh B'Nefesh and the March of the Living. In July 2009, Aguiar invested over $4 million (USD) in support of the Beitar Jerusalem Football Club.\n\nOn June 20, 2012, Aguiar was reported missing after his unoccupied boat was found on Fort Lauderdale Beach. The day before Aguiar went missing, a federal court judge ordered his mental health records be presented to the court as part of a lawsuit between him and his uncle Thomas Kaplan.\n\nAguiar was declared legally dead in January 2015.\n\nAguiar was born on May 31, 1977 in Rio de Janeiro. He was one of four children of Ellen ( Kaplan), a Jewish mother, and Otto de Souza Aguiar, a Christian father. His mother is the sister of billionaire investor Thomas Kaplan, and his father was an artist and model. Though Ellen is halachically Jewish, she considers herself a born-again Christian; Guma was raised as a Christian and the rest of the Aguiar family practiced Christianity as well. At age 26, Aguiar returned to Jewish observance after meeting rabbi Tovia Singer. However, because he was born to an halachically Jewish mother, he did not need to formally convert.\n\nHis family moved to Fort Lauderdale, Florida when Aguiar was one year old. He graduated from the Westminster Academy Christian School in 1995. Aguiar enrolled at Clemson University in Clemson, South Carolina but dropped out after one year.\n\nAguiar was the vice chairman and chief executive officer of Leor Energy. Aguiar began his career as a clerk on the floor of the NYMEX in 1999 where he focused on the energy markets, with particular emphasis on natural gas. Transitioning from daily trading activity to the long-term physical markets, Aguiar joined with his uncle, Thomas Kaplan, in 2001 to manage a portfolio of family investments ranging from venture capital to private equity and debt. During this time, he served as a director of several public and private companies and was given responsibility for creating a U.S.-based energy company focused on aggressive early-stage oil and gas exploration. After assembling a diversified portfolio of energy properties in Louisiana and Texas, ranging from unconventional natural gas to shallow oil, Aguiar identified and executed Leor's acquisition of its flagship property in the Deep Bossier of East Texas in 2003.\n\nIn 2005, under Aguiar's executive management, Leor Energy engineered financings which fully capitalized the projects in Leor Energy LP. Included in these transactions were Leor Energy Lp industrial alliance with Encana, a natural gas producer in North America and the Leor Energy Lp joint-venture partner in the Deep Bossier. \nUnder Aguiar, a mezzanine financing with hedge-fund Amaranth Capital LLC was achieved. Leor Energy has a financial alliance with its first strategic equity partner, Goldman Sachs & Co.\n\nAguiar joined Cadence Resources in July 2002 and served as a Member of the Board of Directors of Corporate Development until June 30, 2003.\n\nAguiar was the director of the Lillian Jean Kaplan Foundation and was involved in numerous philanthropic activities. He donated more than US$8 million to fund the activities of Nefesh B'Nefesh, a Zionist organization which promotes Aliyah (Jewish immigration) from North America and the United Kingdom to Israel. He was a supporter of the March of the Living, which organizes educational programming in Poland and Israel to enable students to better understand the Holocaust and the rebirth of Zionism and the creation of the modern Jewish state of Israel.\n\nFor his philanthropic activities, in April 2009, The Jewish Week recognized Aguiar as one of the \"36 under 36″ (one of 36 of the most influential Jewish leaders under the age of 36).\n\nIn 2008, Aguiar founded the \"Defender of Jerusalem Award\" which recognizes public figures who have taken uniquely strong stances in support of Jerusalem.\n\nIn October 2009, Aguiar and his wife Jamie served as the co-chairs of the \"Facing Tomorrow\" Conference in Jerusalem organized by Israel's President Shimon Peres. During the conference, Aguiar was featured on a panel with the President and offered his vision of Israeli society and culture from the perspective of one of the country's most recognized entrepreneurs.\n\nOn July 21, 2009, Aguiar announced an investment of over US$4 million to support the Beitar Jerusalem Football Team which, despite a massive fan following, had grown into financial distress and was on the brink of collapse prior to Aguiar's financial contributions. Aguiar was motivated to purchase the team out of his love for the sport combined with a passion for Jerusalem and Israel.\n\nIn September 2009, Aguiar took his commitment to Jerusalem sports to the next level when he invested over $1.5 million in the city's leading basketball franchise, Hapoel Jerusalem.\n\nSince these investments, Aguiar became a fixture in Israeli social circles and regularly met with members of Knesset and local political and business leaders.\n\nAguiar managed the teams and was in contact with the general managers of both Betar (Itzik Kornfein) and Hapoel (Dani Klein). In November 2009, Aguiar travelled with Kornfein to Brazil with the goal of scouting out players for the Betar team. He made an effort to be at team practices and met with the players and staff of both teams.\n\nBeitar fans attribute Beitar's winning the Toto Cup on 26 January 2010 to Aguiar's financial backing, although it was won while Aguiar was hospitalized in a psychiatric facility. About a half an hour after winning, Itzik Kornfein took the Toto Cup to the psychiatric hospital but was not permitted to enter. He asked the security staff to take in the trophy to the hospitalized Aguiar.\n\nIn 2005, Aguiar married his Westminster Academy high school sweetheart, Jamie Elizabeth Black. Jamie graduated from the University of Florida with a degree in Public Relations. They had four children, Jacob, Lilly, Jonathan, and Leo and celebrated both Christmas and Hanukkah. The process of immigration to Israel was an act described by himself as a personal dream. Prior to his disappearance, Aguiar divided his time between the Yemin Moshe quarter in Jerusalem and South Florida.\n\nAguiar was friends with Alan Dershowitz.\n\nAguiar was a Zionist.\n\nAguiar pleaded no contest to drug charges in 2009 after police found marijuana in his car during a traffic stop in Florida. Aguiar publicly stated that the police were out to get him and that \"When I got to the prison [an officer] took my kippah off and then tried to convert me to Christianity.\" Aguiar hired Alan Dershowitz to represent him.\n\nAguiar's wife Jamie filed a domestic violence protective order against him in the summer of 2011. He then filed for divorce, but both the domestic violence allegations and the divorce filing were stopped.\n\nAguiar's mother has said that Aguiar experienced his first psychotic episode at age 19 and that he was diagnosed with severe bipolar disorder and psychosis.\n\nAguiar was admitted to psychiatric hospitals several times.\n\nOn January 14, 2010, Aguiar was involuntarily committed to a mental hospital in Israel by his mother.\n\nIn 2011, due to his mental illness, his wife Jamie and mother Ellen petitioned a Miami-Dade judge for guardianship over Aguiar. The court agreed, and appointed an emergency guardianship over Aguiar.\n\nTwo days after his disappearance in June 2012, Aguiar's mother filed documents in Broward County, Florida court to become conservator of his nearly $100 million fortune. In Ellen Aguiar's petition, she wrote that Guma \"disappeared as the result of mental derangement or other mental cause\" or disappeared \"under circumstances indicating that he may have died, either naturally, or accidentally.\" It further stated that he suffered from \"severe bipolar disorder.\"\n\nAguiar was sued by his uncle Thomas Kaplan. As part of that lawsuit, the judge presiding over the case, John O'Sullivan, found that Aguiar's psychosis \"manifested itself in both grandiose and paranoid delusions,\" for example, Aguiar's belief that he (Aguiar) was being followed by snipers. On the day Aguiar disappeared, a federal judge in Florida issued an order appointing an independent medical examiner to see if Aguiar was psychologically sound enough for a deposition in the case.\n\nOn June 20, 2012, Aguiar's 31-foot, center console Jupiter boat, named the \"T.T. Zion\", landed on Fort Lauderdale Beach east of East Las Olas Boulevard around 1:15 a.m., with its navigation lights on and engines still running, according to the \"Sun-Sentinel\". Sea Tow, the company that Fort Lauderdale authorities contracted to tow the boat, said that the vessel appeared seaworthy and did not believe a mechanical problem had occurred. Aguiar's wallet and cell phone were found on board, but no sign of him or any other passenger was found. Authorities on ATVs searched up and down the beach, but found no sign of Aguiar. The Coast Guard commenced a search at sea. A search of his house found that his watch and wedding band had been left behind. In July 2012 and June 2013, the Ft. Lauderdale Police Department said that even though the investigation remains open, there have been no significant leads in the case.\n\nAguiar was declared legally dead on January 29, 2015, two years and seven months after his disappearance.\n"}
{"id": "57977174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57977174", "title": "Gypsum cave", "text": "Gypsum cave\n\nA \"gypsum cave\" is a natural karstic formation in gypsum.\n\nGypsum caves can be found in several places on earth, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12778829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12778829", "title": "Hanseatic flags", "text": "Hanseatic flags\n\nHanseatic flags are the banners of Hanseatic cities, that were flown by cogs and other ships of the Hanseatic league - as illustrated on the 1350 seal of Elbing shown here.\n\nOriginally, Hanseatic ships displayed red gonfalones on their masts, which had a cross at its peak to denote the protection of the sovereign. Red was also the colour used by Danish and English shipping, the English later adopting the St George's Cross. From the second half of the 13th century, the individual Hanseatic cities created various banners to distinguish themselves from other member cities. The red gonfalone remained in use in addition to these flags. The oldest Hanseatic flag is the plain red banner used by Hamburg. Hanseatic flags were mostly red-white and some featured symbols, such as crosses.\n\nMany cities that were members of the Hanseatic league continue to use red and white as their city colours today.\n\nIn addition to these banners, ships also flew a Hanseatic pennant (\"Hanseatenwimpel\") where the upper half is white (silver) and the lower half is red.\n\n"}
{"id": "22711526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22711526", "title": "ISO 3166-2:GI", "text": "ISO 3166-2:GI\n\nISO 3166-2:GI is the entry for Gibraltar in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently no ISO 3166-2 codes are defined in the entry for Gibraltar. The territory has no defined subdivisions.\n\nGibraltar is officially assigned the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code .\n\n"}
{"id": "32349302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32349302", "title": "James Macdonald (engineer)", "text": "James Macdonald (engineer)\n\nSir James Ronald Leslie Macdonald, KCSI, KCIE, CB (8 February 1862 – 27 June 1927) was a Scottish engineer, explorer and cartographer. He served as a British Army engineer, rose to the rank of Brigadier-General and was knighted. A balloon observer as a young man, he surveyed for railways in India and East Africa, explored the upper Nile region, commanded balloon sections during wars in South Africa and China and led a major expedition into Tibet in 1903–1904.\n\nMacdonald was born on 8 February 1862 in Rajahmundry in the Madras Presidency, India, and was educated at Aberdeen Grammar School and the University of Aberdeen.\nHe passed through the Royal Military Academy and was gazetted to the Royal Engineers in 1882.\n\nAs a lieutenant, on 15 May 1885 Macdonald was appointed to the corps of Bengal Sappers and Miners, Torpedo service, Calcutta on special duty as a balloon photographer. He served in the Hazara campaign of 1888, and also working in the Indian railway organization.\nMacdonald had spent seven years in service in India and was in Bombay in 1891 ready to embark for England on leave when he was offered the job of Chief Engineer of \"the proposed railway survey from Mombasa to the Victoria Nyanza\". He accepted, and continued to England to find out what would be involved.\n\nThe Imperial British East Africa Company (IBEA Co) commission was to survey a railway route from Mombasa on the Indian Ocean to Port Florence on the shores of Lake Victoria, roughly following the existing caravan route. The Survey began in December 1891, and took more than a year. Macdonald encountered many difficulties in his survey of 27,000 miles of possible route for the railway including sickness, attacks by ants, bees, lions and elephants, formidable physical obstacles and hostile Africans. All these took their toll on his carriers and other followers.\n\nThe survey's findings confirmed that the caravan route to the Great Rift Valley was the best path for the line, followed by the easiest gradient to be found over the Mau Escarpment and down to Lake Victoria. Macdonald and John Wallace Pringle, his second in command, recommended construction of a three-foot six inch gauge railway. They suggested that Kikuyuland would be a suitable place for whites to live, and their civilizing effect would drive out slavery, but the railway was needed to give access to the new colony. The IBEA Co did not have enough money to undertake construction before handing over the protectorate to the British government in 1895. Construction of the line began in 1895 under the direction of George Whitehouse, a young English engineer.\n\nWhile conducting the survey, Macdonald had been favorably impressed by the intelligent and sophisticated Baganda people living to the north of the lake.\nIn May 1893 Macdonald was appointed Acting British Commissioner of the Uganda Protectorate by General Gerald Herbert Portal with directions to stay away from the internal affairs of Buganda. He accordingly withdrew all the Sudanese troops from the west of the country.\nIn 1894 he was chief Staff Officer of an expedition to the neighboring kingdom of Bunyoro, now in northern Uganda. Later he was posted back to India.\n\nIn 1897 Macdonald was in London when he was appointed leader of another expedition to Uganda, ostensibly to review the northern boundaries.\nAlthough Uganda had been declared a British Protectorate the British were concerned that France or Italy would claim some of the unoccupied territory. General Herbert Kitchener was advancing up the Nile towards Khartoum, which he would capture at the Battle of Omdurman on 2 September 1898. However, a French column under Jean-Baptiste Marchand was striking across Africa from Senegal to Fashoda, south of Khartoum on the Nile, and would get there well before Kitchener. Macdonald`s instructions were to reach Fashoda first.\n\nThe expedition's officers reached Mombasa in July 1897. After moving inland to a base camp at Ngara Nyuki, in September the force was divided into three columns. Captain Herbert H. Austin would lead 300 men north to uncover the source of the Juba River, thought to be connected with Lake Rudolph. The second column, under Macdonald, would go northwest to the Nile and then downstream to Fashoda, arriving there before the French. A third column would supply the first two.\nHowever these plans were thrown into disarray when the escort of Nubian troops from Sudan deserted and fled to Lake Victoria.\n\nThe Nubian troops had been the Egyptian garrison of Equatoria in the south of Sudan under the leadership of Emin Pasha. In 1885 they were threatened by the forces of Muhammad Ahmad, the self-proclaimed Mahdi whom Kitchener was now preparing to attack, and retreated south to Lake Albert. Emin was \"rescued\" in 1888 by Henry Morton Stanley. With nowhere else to go, the Nubians had accepted the offer of Captain Frederick Lugard to sign up with the British in 1891, but over the years they had accumulated many grievances. Macdonald spent the next seven months trying to suppress their mutiny, finally handing over responsibility for this task in May 1898 to troops that had been dispatched from India.After the mutiny was put down, Macdonald recommended retaining a force of Indians in the country on the basis that the Sudanese troops could be useful, but only if there was an independent body of sepoys.\n\nBy the end of May 1898, Macdonald decided he did not have enough people or supplies to reach his original objective of Fashoda. Instead, his column would aim for Lado, further south on the Nile, while Austin's column would pursue its original objective of exploring around Lake Rudolf.\nOn the route to Lado Macdonald's column passed through Lotuko country in what is now the Eastern Equatoria state of South Sudan, where he was given a friendly reception by the Lotuko chief Lomoro Xujang. Macdonald saw a resemblance between the Maasai people and the Lotuko, and for this reason later recommended incorporation of the Lotuko lands into Uganda.\n\nBoth of Macdonald's columns managed to return to Mombasa by December 1898, having completed their revised tasks, and the force was disbanded early in 1899. This was one of the last incidents in the Scramble for Africa, in which almost the entire continent was brought under European rule. He was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB) in the 1900 New Year Honours list on 1 January 1900 (the order was gazetted on 16 January 1900), and invested by Queen Victoria at Windsor Castle on 1 March 1900.\n\nMacdonald had become a fellow of the Royal Geographical Society in 1891, and gave an account of his African Expedition to the society at a meeting in June 1899. He was next posted to South Africa, where he was responsible for introducing most of the new sections of balloon observers, which made a significant contribution to British progress in the Second Boer War. In this war, the British required over 450,000 men to subdue settlers of Dutch origin who were seeking to preserve their independence. The Boer forces never numbered more than 60,000.\nThe war introduced innovations such as the field telephone, searchlights and barbed wire. Creeping artillery barrages supported infantry advances against entrenched opponents armed with rifles and machine guns, a technique later developed to the extreme during the First World War.\n\nMacdonald left in August 1900 to take up the command of the fourth Balloon section with the British imperial troops fighting the Boxer Rebellion in China. He was then appointed Director of Railways for the China expeditionary force. The fighting in China was the result of growing assertiveness by European powers in China over trade, religion and control of territory during the dying days of the Manchu Qing Dynasty, aggravated by poverty due to harvest failures. A widespread popular uprising led to a siege of Europeans in Beijing. The European colonial powers cooperated in military action to suppress the uprising and imposed harsh indemnities and conditions. From China, Macdonald was posted to Mauritius as general officer commanding later in 1900.\n\nIn 1903 the British were suspicious of the intentions of the Russian Empire in the lands bordering India. As a demonstration of strength, the British determined to send a diplomatic and trade mission to Tibet under Colonel Francis Younghusband. Originally peaceful, the project was transformed into an armed invasion when the Tibetans refused to accept the mission. In October 1903 the strength of the mission's escort was brought up to a brigade with about 2,500 British and Indian troops under Macdonald, who had been temporarily promoted from Colonel to Brigadier-General. He was instructed to avoid aggression and act in a strictly defensive role as the mission advanced into Tibet to Gyantse and occupied the Chumbi valley.\n10,000 unskilled laborers were attached to the expedition.\n\nThe British army left Sikkim on 11 December 1903, and occupied Phari at the northern end of the 60-mile long Chumbi Valley on 22 December. They reached Tuna in mid-January and remained there until the end of March hoping to negotiate with the Tibetans. On 31 March the force advanced, soon coming in contact with a force of about 3,000 Tibetans armed with antique matchlock muskets defending the Guru (or Gura) Pass on the road to Gyantse, about above sea level. Macdonald insisted that the Tibetans surrender their arms, a brawl broke out, the British opened fire and the Tibetans were forced to retreat leaving 600–700 dead. The British-led troops had superior discipline and greatly superior weapons including machine guns. The engagement was completely one-sided and the British themselves expressed disgust with the slaughter of their helpless opponents. About 200 Tibetan wounded were carried to makeshift hospitals. Many had been shot in the back.\n\nThe advance continued, reaching the original destination of Gyantse on 12 April 1904. Macdonald then took half the force back 150 miles to New Chumbi to check communications and arrangements for supply, earning the nickname \"Retiring Mac\". There may have been tensions between MacDonald as military leader, backed by Herbert Kitchener, and the younger and more junior Younghusband as political leader, backed by George Curzon. One of the officers in the expedition thought that Macdonald was much more timid than his reputation had led him to expect, perhaps due to illness. Younghusband was so exasperated by Macdonald's cautious approach that he twice threatened to resign. However, caution may have been justified by the extremely challenging terrain and climate, with logistical problems increasing exponentially as the supply chain lengthened. According to one account, of supplies were needed daily.\n\nIn Macdonald's absence, Younghusband authorized more aggressive action. He achieved some tactical successes, but the situation remained confused. On the grounds of having exceeded his authority, Younghusband was made subordinate to Macdonald, returning to New Chumbi to report to Macdonald on 10 June 1904. The reinforced escort advanced again, reaching the powerful fortress of Gyantse Dzong by 24 June 1904. On 6 July a breach was made in the fortress walls and troops stormed in, forcing the Tibetans to abandon the position. Macdonald had succeeded in his mission of clearing the road, and handed over command to Younghusband for the advance to Lhasa. He received a K.C.I.E. (Knight Commander of the Indian Empire) decoration for his services in Tibet.\n\nMacdonald was the general officer commanding in Mauritius from 1900 until he retired from active service in 1912. On 22 July 1908 the University of Aberdeen conferred an honorary decree in the Faculty of Law on Macdonald.\nMacdonald died on 27 June 1927 in Bournemouth, Hampshire, England at the age of 65.\n\n\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "19335651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19335651", "title": "John Henry Cox", "text": "John Henry Cox\n\nJohn Henry Cox (c. 17505 October 1791) was an English explorer who charted Great Oyster Bay, Maria Island, and Marion Bay on the east coast of Tasmania in 1789, aboard his armed brig HMS \"Mercury\".\n\nJohn Henry Cox was born c. 1750, the son of a rich jewellery merchant in London. His father James had a factory in Shoe Lane, which specialised in the manufacture of clocks and automatons (known as \"sing-songs\" in pidgin English), designed as bribes for Chinese mandarins who were in control of the native merchants with whom Europeans were obliged to deal in trade negotiations in Canton. He even published a work on his activity. When his father died towards the end of the 1770s, Cox turned to the East India Company for permission to stay in China for three years to sell the residue of his father's stock of clocks, and ostensibly \"for his health's sake\". In May 1780 he was given permission to stay for two years and February 1781 saw him installed at Canton as a merchant, but privately and not under the control of the company.\n\nWhen the two years had passed, he applied for a year's extension, which was granted because of his \"good bearing\" and because he had been of special help to certain company chiefs. Cox then found it advantageous to move to Macao, where he was in association with a Scot, John Reid – who from 1779 had been Austrian consul and a naturalised Austrian subject – together with another Scotsman, Prussian consul Daniel Beale. All of their subterfuges were aimed at bypassing the East India Company's restrictive regulations.\n\nIn 1784 Cox branched out and sent a ship up to the northwest coast of America with a cargo of iron, knives, nails etc. which he could use as barter for furs and skins. He operated on the West coast of Vancouver Island, especially Nootka Sound. Business went so well, that Cox and his associates founded the Bengal Fur Society in Calcutta and continued their activity into the following years. This led to Lord Cornwallis, Bengal's general governor, in 1787 complaining to the East India Company about their conduct, all to no avail. By this time, the Americans had joined in the fray; evidence of their activity remains in the \"Columbia\" and \"Washington\" medals, which Boston merchants struck to celebrate the sailing in September 1787 of these two US vessels for the northwest coast of America. The British Admiralty had in 1772 issued similar medals (struck by Matthew Boulton) featuring \"Resolution\" and \"Adventure\" celebrating James Cook's second voyage.\n\nCox, at this stage, having already considerably overstayed his welcome, thought it wise to disappear to England for a spell but was soon back with newly hatched plans. This time, his idea was to see whether he could exploit the Russo-Swedish War of 1788–90. He paid a visit first to Gothenburg, where he made good use of the services of the Swedish East India Company's representatives there, William Chalmers, Lars Gotheen and J.A. Sandberg. Through these men he was able to make contact with Baron Erik Ruuth who was Gustav III's Swedish king Secretary of State for Commerce and Finance.\n\nThe king was apparently very enthusiastic about Cox's quite fantastic proposal which was in effect to put his brig \"Mercury\", newly purchased from the renowned Marmaduke Stalkartt, Deptford, at the disposal of Sweden and with her act as a privateer to raid both the eastern Russian coasts and their North American fur and skin establishments, for which Sweden would earn ten percent of the prizes. The last page of the king's instructions is signed Gustaf by the king at Ghiöteborg (Gothenburg) 11 November 1788 and refers to his authorisation to Captain John Henry Cox of the Swedish naval brig \"Gustaf den Tredie\", (\"Gustaf III\"), \"Mercury\"'s cover-name.\n\nThe Thames was still suffering under extreme weather conditions that winter, with the river frozen, and \"Mercury\" was not able to leave Gravesend on her prospective long voyage before 26 February 1789, but under English colours, as her destination was to be kept secret. Cox had provided himself with a chronometer made by William Hughes of Holborn and had it set to GMT in the mathematical school in Christ's Hospital, the headmaster of which was William Wales, who had sailed as astronomer in Captain Cook's second voyage from 1772–5. Cox had originally intended taking the route via Cape Horn, but on account of the late departure decided to change this plan and take the route via the Cape of Good Hope.\n\nLieut. George Mortimer of the Marines wrote an account of the voyage. Unfortunately he records almost no details of the ship's crew but does mention the death of the ship's cook Thomas Smith on 8 October 1789. He also mentions that Cox had invited a number of his friends, making it sound almost like a rich man's yacht cruise. On 25 March they sailed from Tenerife, crossed the Line in 20 degrees West and on 28 April they were passing Tristan da Cunha. Just about then, Captain William Bligh of HMS \"Bounty\" and the loyal members of the crew were being forced into the long boat by the mutineers led by Fletcher Christian. On 29 May \"Mercury\" reached their first objective, Amsterdam Island in the Roaring Forties, half way between Africa and Australia, discovered in 1522 by del Cano during his circumnavigation. Here they procured 1,000 seal skins and several barrels of oil. Mortimer believed that \"Mercury\" was probably the first English vessel to visit the island. He refers to Alexander Dalrymple's \"Account of the Discoveries Made in the S. Pacific Ocean\", (London, 1767), which deals with the island, and states that the account by the Dutchman Willem de Vlamingh, first to land on the island, in 1696, though short, was tolerably accurate. On 8 July \"Mercury\" was anchoring in a bay on the east coast of Van Diemen's Land, now Tasmania, for wood and water, and Cox named it Oyster Bay, a name that still holds. He also charted Maria Island and Marion Bay there.\n\nThey reached Tahiti on 13 August and anchored in Matavai Bay, where \"Bounty\" had lain for many months. Although some of the mutineers had remained, it was assumed that they lay hidden while \"Mercury\" was there. Mortimer communicated the intelligence to the Admiralty in respect of the probable destination of the Bounty mutineers, \"as it is hoped will enable Captain Edwards of the \"Pandora\" frigate to bring them to that condign punishment they so justly merit\". Captain Edwards' name appears on the list of subscribers to Mortimer's book.\n\n\"Mercury\" stayed at Hawaii for only about two days between 23 and 25 September. On 27 October they were anchored in an inlet on Unalaska Island, one of the Fox Islands Group. They had come a month or two too late, and found that the natives had no furs to trade, but they did stay for about two weeks, which seemed long enough for the United States to name one of the Alaskan rivers Coxe, using the spelling of his name that he used when referring to his Swedish assignment. It seems in fact that Cox only took the brig there as a gesture of fulfilling the contract with the Swedish king. Apparently he had considered returning at a more suitable time, but the Russian-Swedish Treaty of Värälä signed on 14 August 1790 precluded any such plans. If Cox had gone prowling further afield round the North Pacific he might have found unexpected and surprising opposition; the Empress Catherine II had commissioned an expedition to carry out exploration work in the far east of Siberia and the Bering Sea. In charge of the Expedition was an Englishman in the Russian Naval Service, Commodore Joseph Billings, who was alerted regarding Cox's presence, but far too late, for by that time Cox was back in Macao, where he anchored on 27 December 1789, careful to advertise the appearance of the Swedish armed brig \"Gustavus III\" commanded by Captain John Henry Cox of the Swedish Royal Navy. He lost no time in writing a report to the Directors of the Swedish East India Co on 4 January 1790.\n\nPort Cox (since renamed Clayoquot Sound), a bay southeast of Nootka Sound on the west coast of Vancouver Island, and Cox's Channel, a sound in the northernmost tip of the Queen Charlotte Islands between Langara Island and the northwestern tip of Graham Island and now named Parry Passage are named after Cox. According to the record in the Geographic Names Information System (GNIS), the nation's official geographic names repository of the US Board of Geographic Names, the mouth of the Coxe River, (note spelling) where it empties into Katlian Bay is at . The source, or where the stream begins, is at .\n\nCox appears to have intended to use the Swedish contract more as a talisman with which to confound the East India Company rather than wreak any damage on the Russians. Some evidence of this lies in the fact Mortimer's account has no mention of any gun drill, something that ought to have been a necessary part of the operation; only once does Mortimer mention even airing their powder.\n\nExcessive speculation drove Reid into bankruptcy. He therefore closed the Austrian Consulate and left China. Cox's partnership however with Daniel Beale and his younger brother Thomas continued, at any rate under the combined name, during Cox's long period away from Canton. There were further successful voyages to northwest America, always under the Portuguese flag. However, in later years, competition from Spanish ships began to have effect. After his return to Canton, Cox was quickly in business again in Macao.\n\nIt was at the end of September 1791 that Cox sailed \"Mercury\" up the river to Canton's outer port Whampoa. The Honourable East India Company did not welcome him; on the contrary it threatened Cox in every way, refusing to allow him right of residence because it was considered that he, English citizen that he was, had broken the company's \"sacred\" monopoly. Nonetheless, Cox raised a Prussian flag and landed exuding disrespectful protests.\n\nCox did not live long enough to really enjoy the fortune he had amassed and died aged 41 years, on 5 October 1791 and was buried the following day on French Island that lay within sight of the ships moored at Whampoa, and was where all foreigners who died at Canton, or aboard the ships, were interred at the end of the 18th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "14295167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14295167", "title": "Lake Rotoroa (Waikato)", "text": "Lake Rotoroa (Waikato)\n\nLake Rotoroa (or Hamilton Lake Domain) is a lake in Hamilton, Waikato, North Island, New Zealand.\nIt has a surface area of about 54 hectares and an average depth of 2.4 metres.\nIt is the home of the Hamilton Yacht Club, which holds regular sailing in the summer.\n\nLake Rotoroa formed, like most of the Waikato lakes, about 20,000 years ago, when the Waikato changed to flow out at Port Waikato, rather than at Thames. It was a braided river, but most of its braided courses were left as lakes once the river cut its present lower level. Peat then dammed and increased the size of the lakes.\n\nInnes Common, to the west, is of former wetland, bought by the Domain Board to protect the lake and drained some time after 1883. It was named after the Innes family from 1956.\n\nNear the cafe, a shelter covers the old locomotive, F230, donated in 1957.\n\nOn Ruakiwi Rd an ivy-covered memorial arch to Arthur Swarbrick, former chairman of the Hamilton Domain Board, dates from 1929.\n\nThe lake is sometimes affected by cyanobacteria, due to its high nutrient levels. However, the eutrophic quality of the lake has improved since 1998 due to regrowth of macrophytes, such as charophytes.\n\nIn 1959 11,000 litres of sodium arsenate was poured in the lake to control weeds. Arsenic is still in the sediment and eating fish from the lake is not recommended; it's on Regional Council's contaminated sites list. Copper, lead, mercury and zinc also exceed the Australian and New Zealand Environment and Conservation Council (ANZECC) guideline value in parts of the lake.\nLake Rotoroa is a venue for many sports.\n\nAt Innes Common, a park on the east side of the lake is the Waikato Hockey Association Sports Ground.\n\nInnes Common also provides the best access to the lake for watersports. Small sailing boats and canoes are frequently seen on the lake. The lake is too small for rowing skiffs because as soon as they get up to top speed they have to stop. The lake is better suited to slower boats that can turn easily.\n\nThe 3.8 km scenic path around the lake makes it a suitable venue for walking and running. The Hamilton Road Runners Club is based at the Hamilton Yacht Club and meets there for runs every Thursday evening and Saturday morning, as well as hosting a running event at the lake each year in summer. There are water fountains at the playground at the north-west side of the lake and also at Innes Common.\n\nThere are also short bush walks and a small golf green on the west side of the lake.\n\n"}
{"id": "486845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=486845", "title": "List of Latin names of lakes", "text": "List of Latin names of lakes\n\nUsers of Neo-Latin have taken the Latin language to places the Romans never went; hence a need arose to make Latin names of lakes that did not exist when Latin was a living language.\n\n"}
{"id": "15780776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15780776", "title": "List of Muslim geographers", "text": "List of Muslim geographers\n\nThe following is a non-exhaustive list of Muslim geographers.\n\n\n in medieval Islam\n"}
{"id": "317105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317105", "title": "List of airports by IATA code: G", "text": "List of airports by IATA code: G\n\nThe DST column shows the months in which Daylight Saving Time, a.k.a. Summer Time, begins and ends. A blank DST box usually indicates that the location stays on Standard Time all year, although in some cases the location stays on Summer Time all year. If a location is currently on DST, add one hour to the time in the Time column.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886963", "title": "List of bodies of the European Union", "text": "List of bodies of the European Union\n\nBelow is a list of bodies of the European Union.\n\nThe first are the seven institutions of the European Union as listed in Article 13 of the Treaty of European Union (TEU).\n\nNote that the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM) and European Space Agency (ESA) are not EU bodies.\n"}
{"id": "1812483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812483", "title": "List of cemeteries in Budapest", "text": "List of cemeteries in Budapest\n\nThis is a list of cemeteries in Budapest, Hungary. The most famous of them is \"Kerepesi Cemetery\", one of the biggest national pantheons in Europe, where several Hungarian notables are buried in ornate monuments. The second most significant may be \"Farkasréti Cemetery\", including the graves of further illustrious people.\n\nThe largest cemetery in Budapest (and one of the largest ones in Europe) is \"Új köztemető\" (New Public Cemetery); it comprises an area of about 2.07 km².\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24662464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24662464", "title": "List of mayors of Tallinn", "text": "List of mayors of Tallinn\n\nThe following is a list of Mayors of Tallinn, Estonia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38296886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38296886", "title": "List of mountains of Queen Maud Land", "text": "List of mountains of Queen Maud Land\n\nThis list of mountains of Queen Maud Land contains mountains with a registered elevation of higher than 2000 metres (6561 feet) above sea level. The availability of accurate data for this region is limited, making the list both incomplete and inaccurate. Prominence data is generally not available, and the list includes rock formations such as mountain peaks, ridges, nunataks, cliffs and crags. Ice domes are not included in the list.\n\nWith an elevation of ,s Jøkulkyrkja Mountain is the highest mountain of Queen Maud Land. According to the United States Geological Survey (USGS) database Geographic Names Information System (GNIS) and other sources, several summits in the Sør Rondane Mountains are registered with higher elevation, including Isachsen Mountain (3,425 metres), Devold Peak (3,280 meters), Kjelbotn Peak (3,210 meters), Bond Peaks (3,180 meters) and Mount Widerøe (3,180 meters). According to Belgian sources and Norwegian topographic maps, the highest elevation of Sør Rondane Mountains is just below 3000 m.a.s.l.\n"}
{"id": "29158576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29158576", "title": "Lists of sovereign states and dependent territories", "text": "Lists of sovereign states and dependent territories\n\nThis article lists the lists of sovereign states and dependent territories on Wikipedia in alphabetical order.\n\n"}
{"id": "26624902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26624902", "title": "Loya Paktia", "text": "Loya Paktia\n\nLōya Paktiā (; lit. Greater Paktia) is a historical and cultural region of Afghanistan, comprising the modern Afghan provinces of Khost, Paktia, and Paktika, as well as parts of Logar and Ghazni, and parts of Kurram and Waziristan in Pakistan. Loya Paktia is vaguely defined by a common culture and history that is connected to the local indigenous tribes that reside in the region. Particular styles of clothing, articles of clothing, turban styles, turban cloth colors, dialects of Pashto language, etc. may sometimes be associated with specific tribes indigenous to Loya Paktia and thus integrate themselves into regional culture. For instance, a Pashtun tribesman from Loy Kandahar may quickly recognize a Pashtun from Loya Paktia based upon his turban (or lungee) style and color. Likewise, a Pashtun from Loya Paktia may recognize someone from Loy Kandahar based upon his unique style of collarless kameez (shirt) with specific embroidered patterns on the front. There are many subtle and intricate cultural indicators of this type that are not recorded in any known written history but simply known and observed by the tribesmen of the various Pashtun regions of Afghanistan and Pakistan.\n\nThe largest city of the region is Khost, while other cities of Loya Paktia include Zurmat (largest city of Paktia Province), Gardez (capital of Paktia Province), Urgun (largest city of Paktika), and Sharana (capital of Paktika).\n\nOther main towns of Loya Paktia are Sardeh Band (Ghazni), Charkh (Logar), Tari Mangal (Kurram), Angur Ada (partly in South Waziristan), Yakubi, Tani, Dadwal, Aryob, Khandkhel, Tsamkani, Zarghun Shar, Wazakhwa, and Zerok.\n\nThe population mostly consists of Pashtuns from various tribes under the larger Karlani and Ghilji confederacies. Predominant tribes with notable large populations native to Loya Paktia include Zadran, Zazi, Mangal, Tani, Sabari, Sulaimankhel, Kharoti, Wazir, and Gurbaz. Kochian are common in the region throughout the year who still live a nomadic lifestyle.\n"}
{"id": "1392449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1392449", "title": "Maputo Bay", "text": "Maputo Bay\n\nMaputo Bay (), formerly also known as Delagoa Bay from \"Baía da Lagoa\" in Portuguese, is an inlet of the Indian Ocean on the coast of Mozambique, between 25° 40' and 26° 20' S, with a length from north to south of over 90 km long and 32 km wide.\n\nThe bay is the northern termination of the series of lagoons which line the coast from Saint Lucia Bay. The opening is toward the N.E. The southern part of the bay is formed the Machangulo peninsula, which on its inner or western side affords safe anchorage. At its N.W. point is Port Melville. North of the peninsula is Inhaca Island, and beyond it a smaller island, \"Ilha dos Portugueses\" (The Portugueses' Island), formerly known as Elephant's Island.\n\nIn spite of a bar at the entrance and a number of shallows within, Maputo Bay forms a valuable harbour, accessible to large vessels at all seasons of the year. The surrounding country is low and very unhealthy, but the island of Inhaca (Inyak) has a height of 73 m, and is used as a sanatorium. A river 3.7 to 5.5 m deep, known as the Manhissa or Komati, enters the bay at its northern end; several smaller streams, the Matola (from the north), the Umbeluzi (from the west), and the Tembe (from the south), from the Lebombo Mountains, meet towards the middle of the bay in the estuary called by the Portuguese the Espírito Santo, but generally known as the English river; and the Maputo, which has its headwaters in the Drakensberg, enters in the south, as also does the Umfusi river. These rivers are the haunts of the hippopotamus and the crocodile. Humpback whales and several species of dolphins live in the water while southern right whales and dugongs were once numerous in the bay and are rare today.\n\nThe first European to reach the bay was Portuguese navigator António de Campo, one of Vasco da Gama's captains, in 1502. In 1544 the merchant trader Lourenço Marques explored the upper reaches of the estuaries leading into the bay. Subsequently, King John III ordered the Bay to be named Baia de Lourenço Marques. Lourenço Marques is reputed to have named the bay Baía da Lagoa (Portuguese: \"Bay of the lagoon\"). In English the Portuguese \"Baia da Lagoa\" then was translated and slightly transformed to \"Delagoa Bay\".\n\nIn 1720 the Dutch East India Company built a fort and factory called Lijdzaamheid (Lydsaamheid) on the spot of Lourenço Marques (now Maputo), since April 1721 governed by an Opperhoofd (chief factor), under authority of the Dutch Cape Colony, interrupted by Taylor's pirate occupation from April 1722 to 28 August 1722; in December 1730 the settlement was abandoned. Thereafter the Portuguese had—intermittently—trading stations in the Espírito Santo estuary. These stations were protected by small forts, usually incapable, however, of withstanding attacks by the natives. In 1799 the Austrian ship \"Joseph und Theresia\" of the Austrian East India Company lands at the bay and the Austrians erect the St. Joseph and St. Maria forts. In 1778, an Austrian expedition led by English adventurer William Bolts established a trading factory at Delagoa Bay. The factory, composed of 155 men and a number of women, traded in ivory, reaching as high as 75,000 pounds per year until the factory was expelled by the Portuguese in 1781.\n\nIn 1823 Captain (afterwards Vice-Admiral) W. F. W. Owen, of the Royal Navy, finding that the Portuguese exercised no jurisdiction south of the settlement of Lourenço Marques, concluded treaties of cession with native chiefs, hoisted the British flag, and appropriated the country from the English river southwards; but when he visited the bay again in 1824 he found that the Portuguese, disregarding the British treaties, had concluded others with the natives, and had endeavoured (unsuccessfully) to take military possession of the country. Captain Owen re-hoisted the British flag, but the sovereignty of either power was left undecided till the claims of the Transvaal Republic rendered a solution of the question urgent. In the meantime the United Kingdom had taken no steps to exercise authority on the spot, while the ravages of Zulus confined Portuguese authority to the limits of their fort. In 1835 Boers, under a leader named Orich, had attempted to form a settlement on the bay, which is the natural outlet for the Transvaal; and in 1868 the Transvaal president, Marthinus Pretorius, claimed the country on each side of the Maputa down to the sea. In the following year, however, the Transvaal acknowledged Portugal's sovereignty over the bay.\n\nIn 1861, Royal Navy Captain Bickford declared Inhaca and Elephant islands to be British territory; an act protested by the authorities in Lisbon. In 1872, the dispute between the United Kingdom and Portugal was submitted to the arbitration of Adolphe Thiers, the French president; and on 19 April 1875 his successor, Marshal MacMahon, ruled in favor of the Portuguese. Previously, the United Kingdom and Portugal had agreed a right of pre-emption would be granted to the unsuccessful claimant in case of sale or cession of the bay. Portuguese authority over the Mozambican interior was not established until some time after the MacMahon decision; nominally, the country south of the Manhissa river was ceded to them by the Matshangana chief Umzila in 1861. In honor of the French president's decision, a beer brewed in Maputo is still today called \"MacMahon\" or \"2M\" (Portuguese: \"Dois M\"). Similarly, the Maputo railway station sat at \"Praça MacMahon\" (MacMahon Square). After Mozambique's independence from Portugal, it was renamed \"Praça dos Trabalhadores\" (Workers' Square).\n\nIn 1889, another dispute arose between Portugal and the United Kingdom over the Portuguese seizure of the railway running from the bay to the Transvaal. This dispute was also referred to arbitration: in 1900, Portugal was found liable and ordered to pay nearly £1,000,000 in compensation to the railway company's shareholders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47386774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47386774", "title": "Morgoth Macula", "text": "Morgoth Macula\n\nMorgoth is a small dark region on the surface of Pluto, southwest of the Norgay Montes and adjacent to Quidlivun Cavus. The \"New Horizons\" spacecraft discovered it in 2015 and named it Morgoth, the primary antagonist in the mythology of J.R.R. Tolkien.\n"}
{"id": "8484657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8484657", "title": "Mount Keen", "text": "Mount Keen\n\nMount Keen () is a 939 m (3,081 feet) high mountain in Scotland and the most easterly Munro. It can be accessed from several directions, South from Glen Mark, North from Glen Tanar, and East to Braid Cairn. It is a moderate walk which is most popularly started by mountain bike, riding through the native Caledonian pine forest of Glen Tanar from Aboyne. On a good day, the Cairngorms, especially Lochnagar, can be seen. The summit is marked by a trig point.\n\nPath quality is very good on the approach to the mountain. There is a wide forestry track most of the way to the foot of the mountain if approaching from Aboyne and Glen Tanar. Path quality on the mountain itself is moderate. An effort has been made to widen and ensure the path remains water free, however rain has left some shallow channels in the path. Further up, the path becomes rocky yet easy to walk on unless in icy conditions. \n\nMobile phone reception is excellent from the summit for Vodafone and O2 users and possibly many others as there is a direct line of sight with the Durris mast. There is a steep drop to the East of the summit so in icy conditions care should be taken. Limited shelter can be taken beside large boulders and a trig point allows walkers to collect their bearings. \n\nIn 2002 the footbridge at the base of Mount Keen on the Glen Tanar side was washed away. To allow for improved access to this popular Munro the bridge has been replaced.\n"}
{"id": "2402638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2402638", "title": "Mozambique Current", "text": "Mozambique Current\n\nThe Mozambique Current is an ocean current in the Indian Ocean, usually defined as warm surface waters flowing south along the African east coast in the Mozambique Channel, between Mozambique and the island of Madagascar.\n\nThe classical definition of the Mozambique Current is that it is a strong, steady, western boundary current. Modern research has challenged that assumption, and indicates that rather than a strong western boundary current, there are often a series of large anti-cyclonic eddies in the channel. Direct evidence for these eddies has been found in satellite altimetry data \n\n, ship borne surveys \n\n, and moored current meter records \nThese same current meter records, that were over two years in length, failed to show a strong, consistent current along the Mozambican coast, largely dispelling the notion of a steady Mozambique Current. Nonetheless, it is impossible to rule out the possibility that the Mozambique Current may appear intermittently, for short durations. Indeed, numerical model simulations in the Mozambique Channel show the appearance of a current on the Mozambican Coast, during periods between eddies.\n\nMozambique Channel Eddies are large, warm, anti-cyclonic eddies that propagate southwards in the Mozambique Channel. These eddies may have diameters of up to 300 km, and maximum swirl velocities of nearly 1 m/s. The exact causal mechanism, and location of the eddies formation is still debated. The frequency of eddy occurrence reduces from around seven per year in the north of the Channel, to around four per year in the south. Once the eddies exit the Mozambique Channel, they contribute to the variability of the Agulhas Current, including the generation of the Natal Pulse, and Agulhas Rings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292852", "title": "Northern Region, Nigeria", "text": "Northern Region, Nigeria\n\nNorthern Nigeria was an autonomous division within Nigeria, distinctly different from the southern part of the country, with independent customs, foreign relations and security structures. In 1962 it acquired the territory of the British Northern Cameroons, which voted to become a province within Northern Nigeria.\n\nThe Nok culture, an ancient culture dominated most of what is now Northern Nigeria in pre historic times, its legacy in the form of terracotta statues and megaliths have been discovered in Sokoto, Kano, Birinin Kudu, Nok and Zaria. The Kwatarkwashi culture, a variant of the Nok culture centred mostly around Zamfara in Sokoto Province is thought by some to be the same or an offshoot of the Nok.\n\nThe Fourteen Kingdoms unified the diverse lore and heritage of Northern Nigeria into a cohesive ethno-historical system. Seven of these Kingdoms developed from the Kabara legacy of the Hausa people. In the 9th century as vibrant trading centers competing with Kanem-Bornu and Mali slowly developed in the Central Sudan, a set Kingdoms merged dominating the great savannah plains of Hausaland, their primary exports were leather, gold, cloth, salt, kola nuts, animal hides, and henna.\n\nThe Seven Hausa states included:\n\n\nThe growth and conquest of the Hausa Bakwai resulted in the founding of additional states with rulers tracing their lineage to a concubine of the Hausa founding father, Bayajidda. Thus they are called the Banza Bakwai, meaning Bastard Seven. The Banza Bakwai adopted many of the customs and institutions of the Hausa Bakwai but were considered unsanctioned or copy-cat kingdoms by non-Hausa people. These states include:\n\n\nBetween 500 CE and 700 CE Hausa people, who are thought to have slowly moved from Nubia and mixing in with the local Northern and Middle Belt population, established a number of strong states in what is now Northern Nigeria and Eastern Niger. With the decline of the Nok and Sokoto, who had previously controlled Central and Northern Nigeria between 800 BCE and 200 CE, the Hausa were able to emerge as the new power in the region. They are closely linked with the Kanuri people of Kanem-Bornu (Lake Chad), the Birom, Gwari, Nupe and Jukun.\nThe Hausa aristocracy, under influence from the Mali Empire adopted Islam in the 11th century CE. By the 12th century CE the Hausa were becoming one of Africa's major powers. The architecture of the Hausa is perhaps one of the least known but most beautiful of the medieval age. Many of their early mosques and palaces are bright and colourful and often include intricate engraving or elaborate symbols designed into the facade. By 1500 CE the Hausa utilized a modified Arabic script known as Ajami to record their own language; the Hausa compiled several written histories, the most popular being the Kano Chronicle.\n\nUsuman dan Fodio led a jihad against the Hausa States and finally united them into the Sokoto Caliphate. The Sokoto Caliphate was under the overall authority of the Commander of the Faithful. Under Dan Fodio, the Empire was bicephalous and divided into two territories each controlled by an appointed vizier. Each of the territories was further divided into autonomous Emirates under mainly hereditary local Emirs. The Bornu Empire was initially absorbed into the Sokoto Caliphate of Usman dan Fodio, but broke away after a few years later.\n\nInitially the British involvement in Northern Nigeria was predominantly trade-related, and revolved around the expansion of the Royal Niger Company, whose interior territories spread north from about where the Niger River and Benue River joined at Lokoja. The Royal Niger Company's territory did not represent a direct threat to much the Sokoto Caliphate or the numerous states of Northern Nigeria. This changed, when Fredrick Lugard and Taubman Goldie laid down an ambitious plan to pacify the Niger interior and unite it with the rest of the British Empire.\n\nThe protectorate of Northern Nigeria was proclaimed at Ida by Fredrick Lugard on January 1, 1897. The basis of the colony was the 1885 Treaty of Berlin which broadly granted Northern Nigeria to Britain, on the basis of their protectorates in Southern Nigeria. Hostilities with the powerful Sokoto Caliphate soon followed. the Emirates of Kotogora and Illorin were the first to be conquered by the British. In February 1903, the great fort of Kano, seat of the Kano Emirate was captured, Sokoto and much of the rest of its Caliphate soon catapulted.\n\nOn March 13, 1903, the Grand Shura of Caliphate finally conceded to Lugards demands and proclaimed Queen Victoria, Queen and sovereign of the Caliphate and all its lands.\n\nThe Governor, Frederick Lugard, with limited resources, ruled with the consent of local rulers through a policy of indirect rule which he developed into a sophisticated political theory. Lugard left the protectorate after some years, serving in Hong Kong, but was eventually returned to work in Nigeria where he decided on the merger of the Northern Nigeria Protectorate with Southern Nigeria in 1914.\n\nAgitation for independence from the radically different Southern Protectorate however led to a formidable split on the 1940s. The Richards constitution proclaimed in 1945 gave overwhelming autonomy to the North including eventually in the areas of foreign relations and customs policy.\n\nNorthern Nigeria gained self-government on 15 March 1957 with Sir Ahmadu Bello as its first premier. the Northern Peoples Congress under Bello dominated parliament while the Northern Elements Progressive Union became the main opposition party.\n\nThe government of Northern Nigeria was modelled after the Westminster system. A premier acts as head of government and presides over the day-to-day affairs of government, while a governor acts as head of state and commander-in-chief of the constabulary.\n\nThe lower house of parliament called the House of Assembly is composed of elected representatives from the various provinces of the country. The Upper House of parliament, called the House of Chefs, is similar to the British House of Lords. It is composed of unelected emirs of the various Native Authority Councils of the nation's provinces.\n\nThe governor is head of the state of Northern Nigeria. The office was first established on January 1, 1897.\n\nThe governor presides over all ceremonial functions and appoints the members of the nation's upper legislative house, the Northern Nigerian House of Chiefs.\n\n\n\nThe highest point in Northern Nigeria is Chappal Waddi at 2,419 m (7,936 ft). The main rivers are the Niger and the Benue River which converge at Kabba province and empty into the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe expansive valleys of the Niger and Benue River valleys dominate the southern areas of the country. To the southeast of the Benue river, hills and mountains which forms the Mambilla Plateau create the highest plateau in Northern Nigeria. This plateau extends to the border with Cameroon, this montane land forms part of the Bamenda Highlands in Cameroon.\n\nThe great savannah belt of the Great Plains of Hausaland dominates much of the rest of the country. this region experiences rainfall between 20 and 60 inches (508 and 1,524 mm) per year. The savannah zone's three categories are Guinean forest-savanna mosaic, Sudan savannah, and Sahel savannah. Guinean forest-savanna mosaic is plains of tall grass which are interrupted by trees. Sudan savannah is similar but with shorter grasses and shorter trees. Sahel savannah consists of patches of grass and sand, found in the northeast. In the Sahel region, rain is less than 20 inches (508 mm) per year and the Sahara Desert is encroaching. In the dry north-east corner of the country lies Lake Chad, which Northern Nigeria shares with Niger, Chad and Cameroon.\n\nNorthern Nigeria is divided into 18 provinces:\n\nKano, the largest of the provinces in terms of population and economy is in the North-Central part of the country. The Kano Native Authority an offshoot of the fula Kano Emirate inherited the ancient trade industries that fuelled the trans saharan trade with North Africa.\nThe Province of Zaria is home to the City of Kaduna, an autonomous capital city that serves as the nation's capital and home to its national institutions.\n\nGroundnut and cotton industries in the province of Kano provide the main source of revenue for Northern Nigeria. Tin mining in the Province of Plateau, Steel mining in the Province of Benue and other metal industries in the Province of Sokoto build up the diverse mining industry of the Country.\n\nCement industries in Sokoto and Bauchi and leather processing industries in Kano constitute the main manufacturing sector.\n\nNorthern Nigeria is an ethnically and religiously diverse state. The Hausa, Fulani, and Gbagyi people dominate much of the North Western and central parts of the Country. While the Hausa and Fula are chiefly Muslims, they also have a Christian history, an Ancient Hausa King of Gobir known as 'Mai Sakandami' - the Cross bearer was a Christian long before the coming of European evangelists and a minority Christian Hausas and Fulbe thrive in the North Western Provinces. A small part of the Hausa population also adheres to the ancient religion of Hausa Animism.\n\nThe Biroms and Ngas of the Plateau and the Tiv and Jukun of the Benue are chiefly Christian, they were converted to Christianity after the colonisation of the country by the British.\nThe Nupe, Kebawa and Yoruba peoples occupy the south western parts of the Country, these people are also mainly Muslims with Emirate type Native systems that predate the country's existence.\n\n"}
{"id": "56337909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56337909", "title": "Outline of Prague", "text": "Outline of Prague\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Prague:\n\nPrague – capital and largest city in the Czech Republic. With about 1.3 million residents within an area of 496 km2 (192 sq mi), it has the status of a statutory city. Prague is classified as a \"Beta+\" global city according to GaWC studies, and is the fifth most visited European city after London, Paris, Istanbul and Rome.\n\n\nGeography of Prague\n\n\n\n\nDistricts of Prague\n\n\nBridges in Prague\n\nCastles in Prague\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMuseums in Prague\n\n\n\nPublic squares in Prague\n\nChurches in Prague\n\n\n\n\nTallest structures in Prague\n\nDemographics of Prague\n\nPolitics of Prague\n\nInternational relations of Prague\n\n\nHistory of Prague\n\nTimeline of Prague\n\n\nCulture of Prague\n\nList of tallest buildings in Prague\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPublic art in Prague\n\nCuisine of Prague\n\nEvents in Prague\n\nLanguages of Prague\n\nMedia in Prague\n\nPeople from Prague\n\nReligion in Prague\n\nSport in Prague\n\n\n\n\n\nEconomy of Prague\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTransportation in Prague\n\n\nRail transport in Prague\n\n\n\n\nEducation in Prague\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16285808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16285808", "title": "Outline of Tuvalu", "text": "Outline of Tuvalu\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Tuvalu:\n\nTuvalu (formerly known as the Ellice Islands) – sovereign Polynesian island nation located in the South Pacific Ocean midway between Hawaii and Australia. Its nearest neighbours are Kiribati, Samoa and Fiji. Comprising three reef islands and six true atolls with a gross land area of just 26 square kilometers (10 sq mi) it is the third-least populated independent country in the world, with only Vatican City and Nauru having fewer inhabitants. It is also the second-smallest member by population of the United Nations. In terms of physical land size, Tuvalu is the fourth smallest country in the world, larger only than the Vatican City—0.44 km²; Monaco—1.95 km² and Nauru—21 km². Tuvalu’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) covers an oceanic area of approximately 900,000 km.\n\nThe first inhabitants of Tuvalu were Polynesians. Therefore, the origins of the people of Tuvalu are addressed in the theories regarding the spread of humans out of Southeast Asia, from Taiwan, via Melanesia and across the Pacific islands to create Polynesia.\n\nTuvalu was first sighted by Europeans on 16 January 1568 during the voyage of Álvaro de Mendaña de Neira from Spain who is understood to have sighted the island of Nui. Mendaña made contact with the islanders but was unable to land. During Mendaña's second voyage across the Pacific he passed Niulakita on 29 August 1595. Captain John Byron passed through the islands of Tuvalu in 1764 during his circumnavigation of the globe as captain of HMS \"Dolphin\".\n\nKeith S. Chambers and Doug Munro (1980) identify Niutao as the island that Francisco Mourelle de la Rúa sailed past on 5 May 1781, thus solving what Europeans had called \"The Mystery of Gran Cocal\". Mourelle's map and journal named the island \"El Gran Cocal\" ('The Great Coconut Plantation'); however, the latitude and longitude was uncertain. Longitude could only be reckoned crudely as accurate chronometers were available until the late 18th century. Visits to the islands became more frequent in the 19th century.\n\nThe islands came under Britain's sphere of influence in the late 19th century. The Ellice Islands were administered by Britain as a protectorate as part of the British Western Pacific Territories from 1892 to 1916 and as part of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands Colony from 1916 to 1974. In 1974 the Ellice Islanders voted for separate British dependency status for Tuvalu, separating from the Gilbert Islands which became Kiribati upon independence. Tuvalu became fully independent within The Commonwealth in 1978. On 17 September 2000 Tuvalu became the 189th member of the United Nations.\n\n\nGeography of Tuvalu\nThe islands of Tuvalu are spread out between the latitude of 5° to 10° south and longitude of 176° to 180°, west of the International Date Line.\n\nGeographic coordinates: to \n\n\n\nTuvalu consists of three reef islands and six true atolls, whose highest point above the sea is five metres.\n\n\nIslands of Tuvalu\nLocal government districts consisting of more than one islet:\nLocal government districts consisting of only one island:\n\nFunafuti Conservation Area\n\nDemographics of Tuvalu\n\nPolitics of Tuvalu\n\nGovernment of Tuvalu\n\n\n\n\nForeign relations of Tuvalu\n\nTuvalu is a member of:\n\nLaw of Tuvalu\n\nMilitary of Tuvalu\nThere is no military in Tuvalu.\n\n\nHistory of Tuvalu\n\nCulture of Tuvalu\n\n\n\n\nEconomy of Tuvalu\n\nEducation in Tuvalu\n\n\nDocumentary films about Tuvalu:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTuvalu\n\n"}
{"id": "42277986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42277986", "title": "Pinnacle (geology)", "text": "Pinnacle (geology)\n\nA pinnacle, tower, spire, needle or natural tower (, \"Felsturm\" or \"Felszinne\") in geology is an individual column of rock, isolated from other rocks or groups of rocks, in the shape of a vertical shaft or spire. \n\nExamples are the summits of the Aiguille du Midi in the Mont Blanc massif in France, the almost 43-metre-high Barbarine on the south side of the Pfaffenstein hill near Königstein in Germany, or the Bischofsmütze, the Drei Zinnen and the Vajolet Towers in the Dolomites, which are rich in such towers. An area of limestone formations within Nambung National Park, near the town of Cervantes, Western Australia, are also known as The Pinnacles.\n\n"}
{"id": "42152734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42152734", "title": "Polikarya", "text": "Polikarya\n\nThe Polikarya (Поликаря) is the highest waterfall in Sochi, Russia. It is fed by one of the glaciers of the Aibga Ridge. Even in June, the slope is covered with snow. The waterfall is located in the Adlersky District not far from Krasnaya Polyana. It is part of the Sochi National Park. Its height is 70 metres.\n\n"}
{"id": "1475585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1475585", "title": "Postal village", "text": "Postal village\n\nA postal village is generally a community, settlement, or hamlet (place) that has a post office and is designated as such by the postal administration. It may be seen as a rural neighbourhood.\n\nThis term seems to have been most common in the latter half of the 19th century when it was in common use in maps and gazetteers, variously abbreviated \"p.v., P.V., PV,\" and \"p-v\". The term is generally used for a community within a township (rural region) as opposed to an incorporated village or other municipal government. By establishing a post office in a particular community it receives official recognition, often for the first time, for a name, an important step in the development of any community.\n"}
{"id": "31971357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31971357", "title": "Prokop Valley", "text": "Prokop Valley\n\nProkop Valley () is a recreational area in south-western Prague, located in the districts of Barrandov, Holyně, Řeporyje, Stodůlky and Hlubočepy. It encompasses two streams, Dalejský potok and Prokopský potok, the latter of which is surrounded by a valley, despite the fact that it is much shorter. The area includes a natural reserve which encompasses a far wider area than the valley.\n\nIn the valley there was once a limy open-cast mine, therefore a lake and a cave cropped up. The first attempts to gain lime were in the year 1860. The territory is equipped with benches.\n\nA view over all the surroundings, through the Vltava river to Vyšehrad, which be seen far away to the left\n\n"}
{"id": "40846941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40846941", "title": "Remote sensing satellite and data overview", "text": "Remote sensing satellite and data overview\n\nA variety of remote sensing systems exist, for which the specification is distributed among a variety of websites from data providers, satellite operators and manufacturers. In order to choose a data product for a given project, a remote sensing data user must be aware of the different products and their applications. The table below gives users an overview of major remote sensing systems and datasets and summarizes their applications and systems.\n"}
{"id": "10416353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10416353", "title": "Slum Dwellers International", "text": "Slum Dwellers International\n\nSDI, formerly known as Slum/Shack Dwellers International, is a global social movement of the urban poor started in 1996. SDI's President, Jockin Arputham, is quoted as saying: \" Global solidarity of the urban poor has been a long-term dream for many of us in the SDI network. This dream began to take shape in the early 1990s when shack dwellers from South Africa’s informal settlements began to visit pavement dwellers living on the streets of Mumbai. Since those days the network has grown steadily in numbers, in influence and in its impact on the everyday lives of millions of urban poor families. Practical, face-to-face learning remains the main driving force of the SDI network that now stretches from Asia, through Africa to Latin America and the Caribbean. With its women-centred savings collectives at the heart of its practice in 34 countries SDI is forging a new system of community organizing that runs in an unbroken thread from the household to the settlement, from the settlement to the city, from the city to the country and from the country to the global stage.\" \n\nSDI affiliates range from groups of a few hundred (at present) in Togo to more than two million in India. Some are decades old, others have been in existence for less than a year. SDI has a presence in the following countries; India, Kenya (see \"Camp of Fire\" project), Namibia, Nepal, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Thailand, Zimbabwe, Uganda, Malawi, Lesotho, Tanzania, Zambia, Argentina, Brazil Bolivia, Angola, Togo, Sierra Leone, Burkina Faso, and Ghana. The headquarters and secretariat are located in Cape Town, South Africa, and from here the organization spreads its mandate. The Secretariat is located at the point of intersection between informal and the formal, between community organizations on the one hand and professionals, Government officials, developers, bankers, donors and academics on the other.\n\nSDI claims that it makes partnerships work – partnerships between communities, partnerships with Government and with other stakeholders. SDI makes every effort to ensure that the poor themselves are at the centre of urban poverty eradication strategies and actions. After 21 years SDI has a proud record of securing tenure for hundreds of thousands of its members, providing incremental housing solutions and contributing to infrastructure delivery, especially water and sanitation, in thousands of slums. It has formalized relationships between organized communities of the urban poor and Governments and ensured, as its South African partner alliance puts it, that \"no development takes place for us without us being directly involved\" \n\nFor SDI, the central participation of women is not just an ideal but a critical component of a gender-sensitive mobilization strategy, which sees men and women re-negotiating their relationships within families, communities, and organizational forms such as slum dweller “federations”. By prioritizing the leadership potential of women, federations alter traditional male domination in communities, in ways that actually strengthen grassroots leadership. Recognising that women are often the true engines of development, SDI uses the savings and credit methodology to develop their leadership capacity, financial management skills, and confidence. By entrusting women to handle such important monetary systems, whereby they are in charge of the precious savings of their neighbours and friends, communities begin to understand the potential of women as public decision-makers and powerful agents of change. In fact, savings and credit activities, apart from their clear financial benefits, serve as a means to bring women out of the home and into the public sphere in a manner that men rarely resent.\n\nEach day groups of women in slum neighborhoods and settlements walk from home to home, and gather small change from each other in order to collectively address the livelihood struggles they share. Through daily interactions, and weekly community gatherings, savings group members begin to articulate what problems exist within their community, creating a sense of shared identity for the women of urban poor communities. Whilst SDI does not exclude men, the reality is that the savings groups are mainly women. Women are often at the center of the household – responsible for the provision of food, school fees, clean water, and a place to sleep. By targeting the poorest women in a settlement, one can be sure that the settlement’s most vital needs will be addressed. Additionally, the structure of savings groups allows members to access short-term loans, which are otherwise largely unavailable to the urban poor. This system of savings & credit prepares communities for medium and large-scale financial management necessary in the slum upgrading projects they are likely to pursuit. Often regarded as the cornerstone of SDI, these savings groups link together to form “federations.”\n\nHorizontal learning exchange from one urban poor community to another is the primary learning strategy of SDI. Participants within the savings networks learn best from each other. When one savings group has initiated a successful income-generating project, re-planned a settlement or built a toilet block, SDI enables groups to come together and learn from intra-network achievements. The community exchange process builds upon the logic of 'doing is knowing' and helps to develop a collective vision. As savers travel from Cape Town’s Sheffield Road to Kenya’s Mukuru Sinai to India’s Pune, the network is unified and strengthened. Such learning happens not only at the street level but between towns, regions, provinces, and nations. In this way, locally appropriate ideas are transferred into the global dialogue on urban development through dialogue between slum dweller peers.\nAdditionally, horizontal exchanges create a platform for learning that builds alternative community-based politics and “expertise,” challenging the notion that development solutions must come from professionals. In this way, communities begin to view themselves as holding the answers to their own problems rather than looking externally for professional help. The pool of knowledge generated through exchange programs becomes a collective asset of the SDI network. When slum dwellers meet with external actors to debate development policies, they can draw from international examples, which influences government and other stakeholders to listen.\n\nCommunity planning activities build political capital for communities both internally and externally. Within communities, activities like enumeration (household-to-household socio-economic surveys) and mapping create space for communities to: identify developmental priorities, organize leadership, expose and mediate grievances between segments of the community, and cohere around future planning. Such activities serve as a platform for engagement with governments and other stakeholders involved in planning and setting policy for development in urban centres. Grass-roots organisations promote community-based data gathering to enforce the interests of slum dwellers. A key aspect of community planning activities is that communities own the information they collect. When they share the data with government, they are able to create new relationships — and even institutions — that make the poor integral role players in the decisions that affect their lives.\n\nPartnerships\nSDI federations cannot address informal settlement challenges on their own, but they can catalyse change. The key to reaching community driven development at scale is the inclusion of external partners. SDI engages with governments, international organisations, academia and other institutions wherever possible to create relationships that benefit the urban poor. By opening space for slum dwellers to engage in international advocacy at the global level, and by drawing international partners into local processes through key local events, opportunities are created for key partnerships to develop that can impact at both the local and global level. Ultimately, the aim is to create situations in which the urban poor are able to play a central role in “co-producing” access to land, services, and housing.\n\nThere is not, and never will be, a one-size-fits-all approach to upgrading of informal settlements. Each settlement is unique in its challenges, but there are common themes. Informal settlement upgrading is not simply “site and service” or the provision of a “top structure” house. Upgrading is any intervention that improves the physical conditions of a settlement, which in turn enhances the lives of its inhabitants. The most critical emphasis is that this process should happen in situ, where communities already exist. Relocations should always be as a last resort. However, in situations in which they are unavoidable, such as in flood planes or along railway lines, the federations work to ensure that decisions are made in conjunction with the community. SDI projects do not deliver land, services and incremental houses as ends in themselves, but do so as a means to draw in politicians and policy makers in order to challenge and transform institutional arrangements and policies. For SDI this is not only a matter of delivery but also one of deepening democracy.\n\nSDI works closely with the following international agencies: UN Habitat (especially its Global Land Tools Network Program, where SDI co-chairs its International Advisory Board); Cities Alliance (SDI currently serves on its Executive Committee; Union of Cities and Local Governments (UCLG) with whom it has launched the high-profile \"Know Your City\" campaign.; the Santa Fe Institute with whom it is developing a data platform of informal settlement information. SDI has an advisory board made up of slum dwellers from India, Philippines, Kenya and South Africa, housing or urban development Ministers or high officials from South Africa, Uganda, India, Brazil, Sri Lanka, Norway and Sweden.\n\nSDI'S commitment to work with local and national Governments, bi-lateral and multi-lateral agencies is based on the principal of militant negotiations. This approach comes from a perspective that the problem of urban poverty cannot be addressed at scale without direct collaboration between organised communities of the urban poor and formal actors in the sector, especially local Governments. However certain human rights activists and academics have interpreted this as proof of co-optation by state institutions and international agencies and undermining more rights-based radical social movements. To underscore this critique reference is made to SDI's links to these formal institutions and not to its practice and its outcomes. This includes claims that SDI is supported by a number of prominent World Bank intellectuals such as Arjun Appadurai. Its role on agencies such as Cities Alliance is also cited as proof of a neo-liberal orientation.\n\nFinancial support for SDI projects, trans-national learning, global advocacy and the Urban Poor Fund International (UPFI) comes from community savings as well as a range of international donors including but not limited to; Swedish Sida, MFA Norway, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the Ford Foundation, Misereor and the Skoll Foundation.\n\nAs a network of networks of communities of the urban poor, SDI is committed to grassroots solidarity at the global and the national levels. It has partnerships and memoranda of understanding with Habitat for Humanity, and the Association of African Planning Schools. It retains cordial links with other international networks such as WIEGO and the Huairou Commission. In October 2009, SDI made a statement in solidarity with Abahlali baseMjondolo when a militia affiliated with the ANC attacked the movement in Kennedy Road informal settlement in Durban. However prior to this SDI was accused of supporting the controversial KwaZulu Natal Elimination and Prevention of Slums Act. This accusation of guilt by association was based on nothing more than SDI's working partnership with the Provincial government and the housing department. Even when the strategies and terrain are different, the struggle is just the same. Certainly the goals are the same: secure tenure, basic services, affordable housing, inclusive cities, effective redistribution of resources and the support for communities to lead these struggles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31769026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31769026", "title": "Stig (Serbia)", "text": "Stig (Serbia)\n\nStig is a plain in eastern Serbia, in the southern part of the Pannonian Plain, in the lower course of the Mlava River, from its inflow into the Danube (or rather its small arm, Dunavac) to Homolje Mountains. It includes the larger settlements of Požarevac and Petrovac na Mlavi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21050998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21050998", "title": "Swahili coast", "text": "Swahili coast\n\nThe Swahili Coast is a coastal area in Southeast Africa inhabited by the Swahili people. It mainly consists of littoral Kenya, Tanzania, and northern Mozambique. The term may also include some of the Indian Ocean islands, such as Zanzibar, Pate and Comoros, which lie off the Swahili Coast. The Swahili Coast has a distinct culture, demography, religion and geography, and as a result - along with other factors, including economic - has witnessed rising secessionism.\n\nThe major ports along the Swahili Coast include:\n\nOff-shore island groups associated with this coastal region:\n\nAssociated coastal and island people through Swahili culture include:\n\n\nParts of the area that are today considered Swahili Coast were known as Azania or Zingion in the Greco-Roman era, and as Zanj or Zinj in Middle Eastern, Chinese and Indian literature from the 7th to the 14th century. Archaeological evidences of small Hindu settlements from India have been found from 2nd century AD mainly in the Swahili coast of Zanzibar, Kenya, Zimbabwe and Madagascar . Historical documents including the Periplus of the Erythraean Sea and works by Ibn Battuta describe the society, culture, and economy of the Swahili Coast at various points in its history.\n\nThe rise of the Swahili Coast city-states can be largely attributed to the region's extensive participation in a trade network that spanned the Indian Ocean. Some Swahili coast exports included sorghums, millets, sesame, coconut oil, vinegar, copra, dried fish, hardwoods, ebony, mangrove boats, sisal, coir, rubber, rock crystal, tobacco, carved doors and chests, forged iron, incense, myrrh, gums and resins, gold, copper, iron, domestic and field slaves, and concubines. Some of the imports received from Asia and Europe include cottons, silks, woolens, glass and stone beads, metal wire, jewelry, sandalwood, cosmetics, fragrances, kohl, rice, spices, coffee, tea, other foods and flavorings, teak, iron and brass fittings, sailcloth, pottery, porcelain, silver, brass, glass, paper, paints, ink, carved wood, books, carved chests, arms, ammunition, gunpowder, swords and daggers, gold, silver, brass, bronze, religious specialists, and craftsmen. Evidence for Indian Ocean trade includes the presence of pot sherds on coastal archaeological sites that can be traced back to China and India.\n\nA product of the multi-cultured environment of the Swahili Coast was the development of the Swahili language, a fundamentally Bantu language that contains a number of Arabic and Hindu loanwords due to the significant trade with Arab and India .\n\nOne of the things that was traded along the Swahili coast was gold. Gold was mined in Zimbabwe and transported through other parts of the Swahili coast. In the 13th century, the city of Kilwa, an island off the coast, took control of the gold trade from Banadir. Kilwa became very powerful and wealthy because of its control of the gold trade, thriving until the Portuguese arrived on the Eastern coast of Africa. In order to take control of the gold trade the Portuguese attacked settlements on the Swahili coast , including Kilwa in 1505. The city is in ruins to this day.\n\nThe kingdoms on the Swahili coast rose because of the trade networks in which they were involved, but they began to decline, possibly in part because of colonization by the Portuguese, who were interested in controlling the trade markets on the Swahili coast. Since the Portuguese took over the trade markets the kingdoms were not able to trade as much as before and as a result began to decline.\n\n"}
{"id": "4596804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4596804", "title": "Timeline of historical geopolitical changes", "text": "Timeline of historical geopolitical changes\n\nThis is a timeline of country and capital changes around the world. It includes dates of declarations of independence, changes in country name, changes of capital city or name, and significant changes in territory (viz. land annexation, cession or secession).\nThis article uses the Common Calendar System which was established as the new Christian Calendar by Pope Gregory XIII in 1582. The Common Calendar follows the ordinal numbers rather than the cardinal numbers, so there was no year \"zero\". The Common Calendar uses the designation Common Era (CE or AD for Anno Domini) for years starting January 1, 1 CE and Before Common Era (BCE or BC for Before Christ) year before that date. (It is now known that Jesus of Nazareth was born a few years before that date, perhaps 4 BCE.) The date January 1, 1 CE immediately followed the date December 31, 1 BCE. Thus, while the 2000s began on Saturday, January 1, 2000 CE, the official Third Millennium began on Monday, January 1, 2001 CE.\n\nChanges usually include (but are not limited to) the alteration of borders, the creation and fall of states, changes of geographical names, as well as some unusually destructive natural disasters. Through the knowledge of such dates and events, the approximate year and age of a world map could be calculated and estimated.\n\nNot all maps of the world of an age or period will be the same throughout the globe as different mapmakers (or their employers) may have different views on the sovereignty or territorial integrity of the countries of the world or possess different levels of technological and geographical insight, the maps created by them might differ significantly.\n 2000s   1900s   1800s   1700s   1600s   1500s   1400s   1300s   1200s   1100s   1000s  1st Millennium CE   1st Millennium BCE   2nd Millennium BCE   3rd Millennium BCE   4th Millennium BCE \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTreaty of Constantinople (1913) September 29\n\nTreaty of Bucharest (1913) August 10\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57556209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57556209", "title": "Urbano Monti", "text": "Urbano Monti\n\nUrbano Monti (1544–1613) (alternate spelling: Urbano Monte) was an Italian cartographer.\n\nHe was born on 16 August 1544.\n\nHe was born and raised in Milan, Italy.\n\nHe died on 15 May 1613.\n\nHis most famous work is the Planisphere.\n\nSome of his best known works are a part of the David Rumsey Map Collection of Stanford University and have been recently digitized.\n\nHis notable books include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46962784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46962784", "title": "Washington Road Elm Allée", "text": "Washington Road Elm Allée\n\nThe Washington Road Elm Allée is a stretch of Washington Road in West Windsor, New Jersey that is lined with Princeton Elm trees. The allée runs through the West Windsor fields of Princeton University and provides, along with the bridge over Lake Carnegie, a dramatic entrance to the campus. The Delaware and Raritan Canal can be found at the northern end of the allée, just before the lake. A jogging path runs through the allée and connects to the canal towpath, the main campus of the university, and other trails through the adjacent fields.\n\nThe original allée was planted in the mid-1920s by Princeton Nurseries, at one time the country's largest commercial plant nursery. The Elm trees are of the Princeton variety, developed by Princeton Nurseries for its landscaping quality, and are resistant to Dutch elm disease, the only one of ten resistant cultivars to have trees that have reached maturity. Of the original 136 Elms planted in the 1920s only 76 survive. They are approximately in diameter and tall. Their branches meet over the roadway to provide a leafy canopy. The allée has many replacement trees, including 16 Norway maples planted in the 1960s, and 31 Liberty elms planted in 1995. The secondary rows of Delaware Elms were planted in 1983, and a long row of forsythia to the east is thought to date from the late 1960s.\n\nTo the east of the Elm Allée, from the road, along the jogging path, can be found the Schenck-Covenhoven Burial Ground, sometimes called the Old Conover Graveyard. It contains forty or fifty graves surrounded by a stone wall and is undoubtedly the oldest cemetery in West Windsor Township, with burials dating to at least 1751. The Schenck and Covenhoven families were Dutch farmers who purchased in what is now West Windsor from William Penn in 1737. The Conover family was among the original settlers in Penns Neck, a settlement found at the south end of the allée. The cemetery has been in disuse for more than a century, though it receives some maintenance from the university.\n\n"}
