{"id": "42527910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42527910", "title": "Adrianne Wadewitz", "text": "Adrianne Wadewitz\n\nAdrianne Wadewitz (January 6, 1977 – April 8, 2014) was an American feminist scholar of 18th-century British literature, and a noted Wikipedian and commenter upon Wikipedia, particularly focusing on gender issues. In April 2014, Wadewitz died from head injuries from a fall while rock climbing.\n\nThe only child of Betty M., a nurse and attorney, and Nathan R. Wadewitz, a Lutheran pastor, Adrianne Wadewitz was born on January 6, 1977, in Omaha, Nebraska. She graduated from North Platte High School in 1995. Wadewitz studied English literature and received a degree in English from Columbia University in 1999. In 2011, she obtained a Ph.D. from Indiana University and became a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Digital Learning and Research at Occidental College. She was chosen as a Mellon Digital Scholarship Postdoctoral Fellow and a HASTAC scholar.\n\nWadewitz graduated \"magna cum laude\" from Columbia University, and later received her masters and doctoral degrees in British literature with a minor in 18th-century studies from Indiana University. She completed both a master's thesis, \"Doubting Thomas': The Failure of Religious Appropriation in The Age of Reason\" (2003), and her doctoral dissertation, \"'Spare the Sympathy, Spoil the Child:' Sensibility, Selfhood, and the Maturing Reader, 1775–1815\" (2011).\n\nHer dissertation combined her research interests in archival work, children's literature, and gender studies. In it, Wadewitz studied the use of language and discursive strategies such as embedded narratives in children's books by Mary Wollstonecraft, Anna Laetitia Barbauld, Charlotte Smith, Maria Edgeworth, and others. She argued that through such reading, the child was supported in the construction of a \"sympathetic self\" that was \"collective, benevolent, and imaginative.\" She also argued that the kinds of subjectivity displayed in late eighteenth-century children's literature challenged \"the dominant Lockean model\" by drawing upon \"Rousseau's theory of education and the discourse of sensibility to construct a 'sympathetic self.' [...] Significantly, this 'sympathetic self' was available to both sexes and to children. Unlike other versions of the self based on sensibility, it was not predicated upon femininity. Moreover, maturation did not depend on age, but rather on one's state of mind; any person educated through this sympathetic literature could be an adult and participate in civic society through, for example, charitable acts.\" Moreover, through its analysis of \"how childhood reading informed the reading of 'adult' novels by Jane Austen,\" it argued that \"contemporary readers of Austen would have read her novels 'didactically' and followed the structural patterns of the children's literature they grew up reading rather than seeing the irony we value today.\"\n\nIn 2009, Wadewitz began putting \"The New England Primer\" online, culminating in a permanent online exhibit in 2012, with text and annotated transcriptions.\n\nShe published on topics including 18th-century children's literature, ambiguity in historical scholarship, and use of Wikipedia in the classroom.\n\nWriting about the use of Wikipedia in education, she argued that in addition to traditional writing and research skills, students should develop skills in media and technological literacy. Reflecting on the construction of knowledge, she emphasized the need to assess sources; distinguish between fact-based and persuasive writing; and be aware of authority and legitimacy. She promoted the development of curricula that included collaborative writing, development of writing skills in the context of a \"community of practice\", and writing for a global readership.\n\nWadewitz made her first edit on Wikipedia in 2004, and went on to create articles on female writers and scholars, several of them becoming . She originally edited anonymously for several years before revealing her gender. She made nearly 50,000 edits in all.\n\nAs a major promoter of getting more women to edit Wikipedia to help end systematic bias, she said, \"We need more female editors, more feminists (who can be editors of any gender), and more editors willing to work on content related to women. The single most underrepresented group on Wikipedia is married women of color with children.\"\n\nShe increasingly became seen as an authority on Wikipedia, and particularly on the encyclopedia's gender issues, and was cited as such by organizations such as the BBC.\n\nWadewitz also served on the board of the .\n\nWadewitz enjoyed rock climbing, which she described in 2013 as enabling \"a new narrative about herself beyond that of a bookish, piano-playing Wikipedia contributor\":\n\nOn April 8, 2014, Wadewitz died from head injuries sustained a week earlier in a rock climbing fall at Joshua Tree National Park. Sue Gardner, the executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation, described Wadewitz's death as a \"huge loss\" and said she may have been Wikipedia's \"single biggest contributor on ... female authors [and] women's history\".\n\nObituaries for her were published in \"The New York Times\", the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"The Washington Post\", \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", and the \"Corriere della Sera\", amongst others. \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" also republished one of her last blog posts, in which she discussed how engaging with a difficult activity had taught her about helping students with their own difficulties, partly by teaching them to celebrate the little successes on the way to a goal. She wrote that, \"Ultimately, nothing was more helpful for me than failing repeatedly\" and that she wanted her students to realize that failures could be part of learning and were nothing to be ashamed of. The journal \"ABO\", which Wadewitz had worked for from 2011 to 2012, dedicated its March 2014 issue to Wadewitz.\n\nWadewitz is survived by her parents, the Rev. Dr. Nathan R. Wadewitz and Betty M. Wadewitz, and her partner, Peter B. James.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56272105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56272105", "title": "Agrihood", "text": "Agrihood\n\nAgrihoods are organized communities that integrate agriculture into residential neighborhoods. The purpose of these communities is to facilitate food production while at the same time providing recreation for members of the community. The trend of moving to agrihoods has been noted by a number of sources to be more common among millennials. \n\nAgrihoods are based around the concept of integrating farms and gardens into neighborhoods, or vice versa. This integration in turn allows for communities to supply themselves with food. Most of this food production is heavily influenced by organic and sustainable agriculture.\n"}
{"id": "2965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2965", "title": "Alcoholism", "text": "Alcoholism\n\nAlcoholism, also known as alcohol use disorder (AUD), is a broad term for any drinking of alcohol that results in mental or physical health problems. The disorder was previously divided into two types: alcohol abuse and alcohol dependence. In a medical context, alcoholism is said to exist when two or more of the following conditions are present: a person drinks large amounts over a long time period, has difficulty cutting down, acquiring and drinking alcohol takes up a great deal of time, alcohol is strongly desired, usage results in not fulfilling responsibilities, usage results in social problems, usage results in health problems, usage results in risky situations, withdrawal occurs when stopping, and alcohol tolerance has occurred with use. Risky situations include drinking and driving or having unsafe sex, among other things. Alcohol use can affect all parts of the body, but it particularly affects the brain, heart, liver, pancreas and immune system. This can result in mental illness, Wernicke–Korsakoff syndrome, irregular heartbeat, liver cirrhosis and increased cancer risk, among other diseases. Drinking during pregnancy can cause damage to the baby resulting in fetal alcohol spectrum disorders. Women are generally more sensitive than men to the harmful physical and mental effects of alcohol.\nEnvironmental factors and genetics are two components associated with alcoholism, with about half the risk attributed to each. Someone with a parent or sibling with alcoholism is three to four times more likely to become an alcoholic themselves. Environmental factors include social, cultural and behavioral influences. High stress levels and anxiety, as well as alcohol's inexpensive cost and easy accessibility, increase the risk. People may continue to drink partly to prevent or improve symptoms of withdrawal. After a person stops drinking alcohol, they may experience a low level of withdrawal lasting for months. Medically, alcoholism is considered both a physical and mental illness. Questionnaires and certain blood tests may both detect people with possible alcoholism. Further information is then collected to confirm the diagnosis.\nPrevention of alcoholism may be attempted by regulating and limiting the sale of alcohol, taxing alcohol to increase its cost, and providing inexpensive treatment. Treatment may take several steps. Due to medical problems that can occur during withdrawal, alcohol detoxification should be carefully controlled. One common method involves the use of benzodiazepine medications, such as diazepam. These can be either given while admitted to a health care institution or occasionally while a person remains in the community with close supervision. Mental illness or other addictions may complicate treatment. After detoxification, support such as group therapy or support groups are used to help keep a person from returning to drinking. One commonly used form of support is the group Alcoholics Anonymous. The medications acamprosate, disulfiram or naltrexone may also be used to help prevent further drinking.\nThe World Health Organization estimates that as of 2010 there were 208 million people with alcoholism worldwide (4.1% of the population over 15 years of age). In the United States, about 17 million (7%) of adults and 0.7 million (2.8%) of those age 12 to 17 years of age are affected. It is more common among males and young adults, becoming less common in middle and old age. It is the least common in Africa, at 1.1%, and has the highest rates in Eastern Europe, at 11%. Alcoholism directly resulted in 139,000 deaths in 2013, up from 112,000 deaths in 1990. A total of 3.3 million deaths (5.9% of all deaths) are believed to be due to alcohol. It often reduces a person's life expectancy by around ten years. In the United States, it resulted in economic costs of $224 billion USD in 2006. Many terms, some insulting and others informal, have been used to refer to people affected by alcoholism; the expressions include \"tippler\", \"drunkard\", \"dipsomaniac\" and \"souse\". In 1979, the World Health Organization discouraged the use of \"alcoholism\" due to its inexact meaning, preferring \"alcohol dependence syndrome\".\nThe risk of alcohol dependence begins at low levels of drinking and increases directly with both the volume of alcohol consumed and a pattern of drinking larger amounts on an occasion, to the point of intoxication, which is sometimes called \"binge drinking\". Young adults are particularly at risk of engaging in binge drinking.\n\nAlcoholism is characterised by an increased tolerance to alcohol–which means that an individual can consume more alcohol–and physical dependence on alcohol, which makes it hard for an individual to control their consumption. The physical dependency caused by alcohol can lead to an affected individual having a very strong urge to drink alcohol. These characteristics play a role in decreasing an alcoholic's ability to stop drinking. Alcoholism can have adverse effects on mental health, causing psychiatric disorders and increasing the risk of suicide. A depressed mood is a common symptom of heavy alcohol drinkers.\n\nWarning signs of alcoholism include the consumption of increasing amounts of alcohol and frequent intoxication, preoccupation with drinking to the exclusion of other activities, promises to quit drinking and failure to keep those promises, the inability to remember what was said or done while drinking (colloquially known as \"blackouts\"), personality changes associated with drinking, denial or the making of excuses for drinking, the refusal to admit excessive drinking, dysfunction or other problems at work or school, the loss of interest in personal appearance or hygiene, marital and economic problems, and the complaint of poor health, with loss of appetite, respiratory infections, or increased anxiety.\n\nDrinking enough to cause a blood alcohol concentration (BAC) of 0.03–0.12% typically causes an overall improvement in mood and possible euphoria (a \"happy\" feeling), increased self-confidence and sociability, decreased anxiety, a flushed, red appearance in the face and impaired judgment and fine muscle coordination. A BAC of 0.09% to 0.25% causes lethargy, sedation, balance problems and blurred vision. A BAC of 0.18% to 0.30% causes profound confusion, impaired speech (e.g. slurred speech), staggering, dizziness and vomiting. A BAC from 0.25% to 0.40% causes stupor, unconsciousness, anterograde amnesia, vomiting (death may occur due to inhalation of vomit (pulmonary aspiration) while unconscious) and respiratory depression (potentially life-threatening). A BAC from 0.35% to 0.80% causes a coma (unconsciousness), life-threatening respiratory depression and possibly fatal alcohol poisoning. With all alcoholic beverages, drinking while driving, operating an aircraft or heavy machinery increases the risk of an accident; many countries have penalties for drunk driving.\n\nHaving more than one drink a day for women or two drinks for men increases the risk of heart disease, high blood pressure, atrial fibrillation, and stroke. Risk is greater in younger people due to binge drinking, which may result in violence or accidents. About 3.3 million deaths (5.9% of all deaths) are believed to be due to alcohol each year. Alcoholism reduces a person's life expectancy by around ten years and alcohol use is the third leading cause of early death in the United States. No professional medical association recommends that people who are nondrinkers should start drinking wine. Long-term alcohol abuse can cause a number of physical symptoms, including cirrhosis of the liver, pancreatitis, epilepsy, polyneuropathy, alcoholic dementia, heart disease, nutritional deficiencies, peptic ulcers and sexual dysfunction, and can eventually be fatal. Other physical effects include an increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease, malabsorption, alcoholic liver disease, and several cancers. Damage to the central nervous system and peripheral nervous system can occur from sustained alcohol consumption. A wide range of immunologic defects can result and there may be a generalized skeletal fragility, in addition to a recognized tendency to accidental injury, resulting a propensity to bone fractures.\n\nWomen develop long-term complications of alcohol dependence more rapidly than do men. Additionally, women have a higher mortality rate from alcoholism than men. Examples of long-term complications include brain, heart, and liver damage and an increased risk of breast cancer. Additionally, heavy drinking over time has been found to have a negative effect on reproductive functioning in women. This results in reproductive dysfunction such as anovulation, decreased ovarian mass, problems or irregularity of the menstrual cycle, and early menopause. Alcoholic ketoacidosis can occur in individuals who chronically abuse alcohol and have a recent history of binge drinking. The amount of alcohol that can be biologically processed and its effects differ between sexes. Equal dosages of alcohol consumed by men and women generally result in women having higher blood alcohol concentrations (BACs), since women generally have a higher percentage of body fat and therefore a lower volume of distribution for alcohol than men, and because the stomachs of men tend to metabolize alcohol more quickly.\n\nLong-term misuse of alcohol can cause a wide range of mental health problems. Severe cognitive problems are common; approximately 10 percent of all dementia cases are related to alcohol consumption, making it the second leading cause of dementia. Excessive alcohol use causes damage to brain function, and psychological health can be increasingly affected over time. Social skills are significantly impaired in people suffering from alcoholism due to the neurotoxic effects of alcohol on the brain, especially the prefrontal cortex area of the brain. The social skills that are impaired by alcohol abuse include impairments in perceiving facial emotions, prosody perception problems and theory of mind deficits; the ability to understand humour is also impaired in alcohol abusers. Psychiatric disorders are common in alcoholics, with as many as 25 percent suffering severe psychiatric disturbances. The most prevalent psychiatric symptoms are anxiety and depression disorders. Psychiatric symptoms usually initially worsen during alcohol withdrawal, but typically improve or disappear with continued abstinence. Psychosis, confusion, and organic brain syndrome may be caused by alcohol misuse, which can lead to a misdiagnosis such as schizophrenia. Panic disorder can develop or worsen as a direct result of long-term alcohol misuse.\n\nThe co-occurrence of major depressive disorder and alcoholism is well documented. Among those with comorbid occurrences, a distinction is commonly made between depressive episodes that remit with alcohol abstinence (\"substance-induced\"), and depressive episodes that are primary and do not remit with abstinence (\"independent\" episodes). Additional use of other drugs may increase the risk of depression. Psychiatric disorders differ depending on gender. Women who have alcohol-use disorders often have a co-occurring psychiatric diagnosis such as major depression, anxiety, panic disorder, bulimia, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), or borderline personality disorder. Men with alcohol-use disorders more often have a co-occurring diagnosis of narcissistic or antisocial personality disorder, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, impulse disorders or attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Women with alcoholism are more likely to experience physical or sexual assault, abuse and domestic violence than women in the general population, which can lead to higher instances of psychiatric disorders and greater dependence on alcohol.\n\nSerious social problems arise from alcoholism; these dilemmas are caused by the pathological changes in the brain and the intoxicating effects of alcohol. Alcohol abuse is associated with an increased risk of committing criminal offences, including child abuse, domestic violence, rape, burglary and assault. Alcoholism is associated with loss of employment, which can lead to financial problems. Drinking at inappropriate times and behavior caused by reduced judgment can lead to legal consequences, such as criminal charges for drunk driving or public disorder, or civil penalties for tortious behavior, and may lead to a criminal sentence. An alcoholic's behavior and mental impairment while drunk can profoundly affect those surrounding him and lead to isolation from family and friends. This isolation can lead to marital conflict and divorce, or contribute to domestic violence. Alcoholism can also lead to child neglect, with subsequent lasting damage to the emotional development of the alcoholic's children. For this reason, children of alcoholic parents can develop a number of emotional problems. For example, they can become afraid of their parents, because of their unstable mood behaviors. In addition, they can develop considerable amount of shame over their inadequacy to liberate their parents from alcoholism. As a result of this failure, they develop wretched self-images, which can lead to depression.\n\nAs with similar substances with a sedative-hypnotic mechanism, such as barbiturates and benzodiazepines, withdrawal from alcohol dependence can be fatal if it is not properly managed. Alcohol's primary effect is the increase in stimulation of the GABA receptor, promoting central nervous system depression. With repeated heavy consumption of alcohol, these receptors are desensitized and reduced in number, resulting in tolerance and physical dependence. When alcohol consumption is stopped too abruptly, the person's nervous system suffers from uncontrolled synapse firing. This can result in symptoms that include anxiety, life-threatening seizures, delirium tremens, hallucinations, shakes and possible heart failure. Other neurotransmitter systems are also involved, especially dopamine, NMDA and glutamate.\n\nSevere acute withdrawal symptoms such as delirium tremens and seizures rarely occur after 1-week post cessation of alcohol. The acute withdrawal phase can be defined as lasting between one and three weeks. In the period of 3–6 weeks following cessation increased anxiety, depression, as well as sleep disturbance, is common; fatigue and tension can persist for up to 5 weeks as part of the post-acute withdrawal syndrome; about a quarter of alcoholics experience anxiety and depression for up to 2 years. These post-acute withdrawal symptoms have also been demonstrated in animal models of alcohol dependence and withdrawal. A kindling effect also occurs in alcoholics whereby each subsequent withdrawal syndrome is more severe than the previous withdrawal episode; this is due to neuroadaptations which occur as a result of periods of abstinence followed by re-exposure to alcohol. Individuals who have had multiple withdrawal episodes are more likely to develop seizures and experience more severe anxiety during withdrawal from alcohol than alcohol-dependent individuals without a history of past alcohol withdrawal episodes. The kindling effect leads to persistent functional changes in brain neural circuits as well as to gene expression. Kindling also results in the intensification of psychological symptoms of alcohol withdrawal. There are decision tools and questionnaires which help guide physicians in evaluating alcohol withdrawal. For example, the CIWA-Ar objectifies alcohol withdrawal symptoms in order to guide therapy decisions which allows for an efficient interview while at the same time retaining clinical usefulness, validity, and reliability, ensuring proper care for withdrawal patients, who can be in danger of death.\n\nA complex mixture of genetic and environmental factors influences the risk of the development of alcoholism. Genes that influence the metabolism of alcohol also influence the risk of alcoholism, and may be indicated by a family history of alcoholism. One paper has found that alcohol use at an early age may influence the expression of genes which increase the risk of alcohol dependence. Individuals who have a genetic disposition to alcoholism are also more likely to begin drinking at an earlier age than average. Also, a younger age of onset of drinking is associated with an increased risk of the development of alcoholism, and about 40 percent of alcoholics will drink excessively by their late adolescence. It is not entirely clear whether this association is causal, and some researchers have been known to disagree with this view.\n\nSevere childhood trauma is also associated with a general increase in the risk of drug dependency. Lack of peer and family support is associated with an increased risk of alcoholism developing. Genetics and adolescence are associated with an increased sensitivity to the neurotoxic effects of chronic alcohol abuse. Cortical degeneration due to the neurotoxic effects increases impulsive behaviour, which may contribute to the development, persistence and severity of alcohol use disorders. There is evidence that with abstinence, there is a reversal of at least some of the alcohol induced central nervous system damage. The use of cannabis was associated with later problems with alcohol use. Alcohol use was associated with an increased probability of later use of tobacco, cannabis, and other illegal drugs.\n\nAlcohol is the most available, widely consumed, and widely abused recreational drug. Beer alone is the world's most widely consumed alcoholic beverage; it is the third-most popular drink overall, after water and tea. It is thought by some to be the oldest fermented beverage.\n\nBased on combined data from SAMHSA's 2004–2005 National Surveys on Drug Use & Health, the rate of past-year alcohol dependence or abuse among persons aged 12 or older varied by level of alcohol use: 44.7% of past month heavy drinkers, 18.5% binge drinkers, 3.8% past month non-binge drinkers, and 1.3% of those who did not drink alcohol in the past month met the criteria for alcohol dependence or abuse in the past year. Males had higher rates than females for all measures of drinking in the past month: any alcohol use (57.5% vs. 45%), binge drinking (30.8% vs. 15.1%), and heavy alcohol use (10.5% vs. 3.3%), and males were twice as likely as females to have met the criteria for alcohol dependence or abuse in the past year (10.5% vs. 5.1%).\n\nGenetic differences that exist between different racial groups affect the risk of developing alcohol dependence. For example, there are differences between African, East Asian and Indo-racial groups in how they metabolize alcohol. These genetic factors partially explain the differing rates of alcohol dependence among racial groups. The alcohol dehydrogenase allele ADH1 B*3 causes a more rapid metabolism of alcohol. The allele ADH1 B*3 is only found in those of African descent and certain Native American tribes. African Americans and Native Americans with this allele have a reduced risk of developing alcoholism. Native Americans, however, have a significantly higher rate of alcoholism than average; it is unclear why this is the case. Other risk factors such as cultural environmental effects e.g. trauma have been proposed to explain the higher rates of alcoholism among Native Americans compared to alcoholism levels in caucasians.\n\nA genome-wide association study of more than 100,000 human individuals identified variants of the gene \"KLB\", which encodes the transmembrane protein β-Klotho, as highly associated with alcohol consumption. The protein β-Klotho is an essential element in cell surface receptors for hormones involved in modulation of appetites for simple sugars and alcohol.\n\nMisuse, problem use, abuse, and heavy use of alcohol refer to improper use of alcohol, which may cause physical, social, or moral harm to the drinker. \"The Dietary Guidelines for Americans\" defines \"moderate use\" as no more than two alcoholic beverages a day for men and no more than one alcoholic beverage a day for women. Some drinkers may drink more than 600 ml of alcohol per day during a heavy drinking period. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) defines binge drinking as the amount of alcohol leading to a blood alcohol content (BAC) of 0.08, which, for most adults, would be reached by consuming five drinks for men or four for women over a two-hour period. According to the NIAAA, men may be at risk for alcohol-related problems if their alcohol consumption exceeds 14 standard drinks per week or 4 drinks per day, and women may be at risk if they have more than 7 standard drinks per week or 3 drinks per day. It defines a standard drink as one 12-ounce bottle of beer, one 5-ounce glass of wine, or 1.5 ounces of distilled spirits. Despite this risk, a 2014 report in the National Survey on Drug Use and Health found that only 10% of either \"heavy drinkers\" or \"binge drinkers\" defined according to the above criteria also met the criteria for alcohol dependence, while only 1.3% of non-binge drinkers met the criteria. An inference drawn from this study is that evidence-based policy strategies and clinical preventive services may effectively reduce binge drinking without requiring addiction treatment in most cases.\n\nThe term \"alcoholism\" is commonly used amongst laypeople, but the word is poorly defined. The WHO calls \"alcoholism\" \"a term of long-standing use and variable meaning\", and use of the term was disfavored by a 1979 WHO expert committee. \"The Big Book\" (from Alcoholics Anonymous) states that once a person is an alcoholic, they are always an alcoholic, but does not define what is meant by the term \"alcoholic\" in this context. In 1960, Bill W., co-founder of Alcoholics Anonymous (AA), said:\n\nIn professional and research contexts, the term \"alcoholism\" sometimes encompasses both alcohol abuse and alcohol dependence, and sometimes is considered equivalent to alcohol dependence. Talbot (1989) observes that alcoholism in the classical disease model follows a progressive course: if a person continues to drink, their condition will worsen. This will lead to harmful consequences in their life, physically, mentally, emotionally and socially. Johnson (1980) explores the emotional progression of the addict's response to alcohol. He looks at this in four phases. The first two are considered \"normal\" drinking and the last two are viewed as \"typical\" alcoholic drinking. Johnson's four phases consist of:\n\nOther theorists such as Milam & Ketcham (1983) focus on the physical deterioration that alcohol consumption causes. They describe the process in three stages:\n\nIn psychology and psychiatry, the DSM is the most common global standard, while in medicine, the standard is ICD. The terms they recommend are similar but not identical.\n\nThe DSM-IV diagnosis of alcohol dependence represents one approach to the definition of alcoholism. In part, this is to assist in the development of research protocols in which findings can be compared to one another. According to the DSM-IV, an alcohol dependence diagnosis is: \"maladaptive alcohol use with clinically significant impairment as manifested by at least three of the following within any one-year period: tolerance; withdrawal; taken in greater amounts or over longer time course than intended; desire or unsuccessful attempts to cut down or control use; great deal of time spent obtaining, using, or recovering from use; social, occupational, or recreational activities given up or reduced; continued use despite knowledge of physical or psychological sequelae.\" Despite the imprecision inherent in the term, there have been attempts to define how the word \"alcoholism\" should be interpreted when encountered. In 1992, it was defined by the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence (NCADD) and ASAM as \"a primary, chronic disease characterized by impaired control over drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking.\" MeSH has had an entry for \"alcoholism\" since 1999, and references the 1992 definition.\n\nAA describes alcoholism as an illness that involves a physical allergy (where \"allergy\" has a different meaning than that used in modern medicine.) and a mental obsession. The doctor and addiction specialist Dr. William D. Silkworth M.D. writes on behalf of AA that \"Alcoholics suffer from a \"(physical) craving beyond mental control\". A 1960 study by E. Morton Jellinek is considered the foundation of the modern disease theory of alcoholism. Jellinek's definition restricted the use of the word \"alcoholism\" to those showing a particular natural history. The modern medical definition of \"alcoholism\" has been revised numerous times since then. The American Medical Association uses the word alcoholism to refer to a particular chronic primary disease.\n\nAttitudes and social stereotypes can create barriers to the detection and treatment of alcohol abuse. This is more of a barrier for women than men. Fear of stigmatization may lead women to deny that they are suffering from a medical condition, to hide their drinking, and to drink alone. This pattern, in turn, leads family, physicians, and others to be less likely to suspect that a woman they know is an alcoholic. In contrast, reduced fear of stigma may lead men to admit that they are suffering from a medical condition, to display their drinking publicly, and to drink in groups. This pattern, in turn, leads family, physicians, and others to be more likely to suspect that a man they know is an alcoholic.\n\nSeveral tools may be used to detect a loss of control of alcohol use. These tools are mostly self-reports in questionnaire form. Another common theme is a score or tally that sums up the general severity of alcohol use.\n\nThe CAGE questionnaire, named for its four questions, is one such example that may be used to screen patients quickly in a doctor's office.\n\nOther tests are sometimes used for the detection of alcohol dependence, such as the Alcohol Dependence Data Questionnaire, which is a more sensitive diagnostic test than the CAGE questionnaire. It helps distinguish a diagnosis of alcohol dependence from one of heavy alcohol use. The Michigan Alcohol Screening Test (MAST) is a screening tool for alcoholism widely used by courts to determine the appropriate sentencing for people convicted of alcohol-related offenses, driving under the influence being the most common. The Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT), a screening questionnaire developed by the World Health Organization, is unique in that it has been validated in six countries and is used internationally. Like the CAGE questionnaire, it uses a simple set of questions – a high score earning a deeper investigation. The Paddington Alcohol Test (PAT) was designed to screen for alcohol-related problems amongst those attending Accident and Emergency departments. It concords well with the AUDIT questionnaire but is administered in a fifth of the time. Certain blood tests may also indicate possible alcoholism.\n\nThere are reliable tests for the actual use of alcohol, one common test being that of blood alcohol content (BAC). These tests do not differentiate alcoholics from non-alcoholics; however, long-term heavy drinking does have a few recognizable effects on the body, including:\n\nWith regard to alcoholism, BAC is useful to judge alcohol tolerance, which in turn is a sign of alcoholism. Electrolyte and acid-base abnormalities including hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hyponatremia, hyperuricemia, metabolic acidosis, and respiratory alkalosis are common in alcoholics.\n\nHowever, none of these blood tests for biological markers is as sensitive as screening questionnaires.\n\nThe World Health Organization, the European Union and other regional bodies, national governments and parliaments have formed alcohol policies in order to reduce the harm of alcoholism. Targeting adolescents and young adults is regarded as an important step to reduce the harm of alcohol abuse. Increasing the age at which licit drugs of abuse such as alcohol can be purchased, the banning or restricting advertising of alcohol has been recommended as additional ways of reducing the harm of alcohol dependence and abuse. Credible, evidence based educational campaigns in the mass media about the consequences of alcohol abuse have been recommended. Guidelines for parents to prevent alcohol abuse amongst adolescents, and for helping young people with mental health problems have also been suggested.\n\nTreatments are varied because there are multiple perspectives of alcoholism. Those who approach alcoholism as a medical condition or disease recommend differing treatments from, for instance, those who approach the condition as one of social choice. Most treatments focus on helping people discontinue their alcohol intake, followed up with life training and/or social support to help them resist a return to alcohol use. Since alcoholism involves multiple factors which encourage a person to continue drinking, they must all be addressed to successfully prevent a relapse. An example of this kind of treatment is detoxification followed by a combination of supportive therapy, attendance at self-help groups, and ongoing development of coping mechanisms. The treatment community for alcoholism typically supports an abstinence-based zero tolerance approach; however, some prefer a harm-reduction approach.\n\nAlcohol detoxification or 'detox' for alcoholics is an abrupt stop of alcohol drinking coupled with the substitution of drugs, such as benzodiazepines, that have similar effects to prevent alcohol withdrawal. Individuals who are only at risk of mild to moderate withdrawal symptoms can be detoxified as outpatients. Individuals at risk of a severe withdrawal syndrome as well as those who have significant or acute comorbid conditions are generally treated as inpatients. Detoxification does not actually treat alcoholism, and it is necessary to follow up detoxification with an appropriate treatment program for alcohol dependence or abuse to reduce the risk of relapse. Some symptoms of alcohol withdrawal such as depressed mood and anxiety typically take weeks or months to abate while other symptoms persist longer due to persisting neuroadaptations. Alcoholism has serious adverse effects on brain function; on average it takes one year of abstinence to recover from the cognitive deficits incurred by chronic alcohol abuse.\n\nVarious forms of group therapy or psychotherapy can be used to deal with underlying psychological issues that are related to alcohol addiction, as well as provide relapse prevention skills. The mutual-help group-counseling approach is one of the most common ways of helping alcoholics maintain sobriety. Alcoholics Anonymous was one of the first organizations formed to provide mutual, nonprofessional counseling, and it is still the largest. Others include LifeRing Secular Recovery, SMART Recovery, Women For Sobriety, and Secular Organizations for Sobriety. Rationing and moderation programs such as Moderation Management and DrinkWise do not mandate complete abstinence. While most alcoholics are unable to limit their drinking in this way, some return to moderate drinking. A 2002 US study by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) showed that 17.7 percent of individuals diagnosed as alcohol dependent more than one year prior returned to low-risk drinking. This group, however, showed fewer initial symptoms of dependency. A follow-up study, using the same subjects that were judged to be in remission in 2001–2002, examined the rates of return to problem drinking in 2004–2005. The study found abstinence from alcohol was the most stable form of remission for recovering alcoholics. A long-term (60 year) follow-up of two groups of alcoholic men concluded that \"return to controlled drinking rarely persisted for much more than a decade without relapse or evolution into abstinence.\"\n\nIn the United States there are four approved medications for alcoholism: acamprosate, two methods of using naltrexone and disulfiram.\n\n\nSeveral other drugs are also used and many are under investigation.\n\nEvidence does not support the use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), antipsychotics, or gabapentin.\n\nAlcoholics may also require treatment for other psychotropic drug addictions and drug dependences. The most common dual dependence syndrome with alcohol dependence is benzodiazepine dependence, with studies showing 10–20 percent of alcohol-dependent individuals had problems of dependence and/or misuse problems of benzodiazepine drugs such as valium or clonazopam. These drugs are, like alcohol, depressants. Benzodiazepines may be used legally, if they are prescribed by doctors for anxiety problems or other mood disorders, or they may be purchased as illegal drugs. Benzodiazepine use increases cravings for alcohol and the volume of alcohol consumed by problem drinkers. Benzodiazepine dependency requires careful reduction in dosage to avoid benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome and other health consequences. Dependence on other sedative-hypnotics such as zolpidem and zopiclone as well as opiates and illegal drugs is common in alcoholics. Alcohol itself is a sedative-hypnotic and is cross-tolerant with other sedative-hypnotics such as barbiturates, benzodiazepines and nonbenzodiazepines. Dependence upon and withdrawal from sedative-hypnotics can be medically severe and, as with alcohol withdrawal, there is a risk of psychosis or seizures if not properly managed.\n\nThe World Health Organization estimates that as of 2010 there are 208 million people with alcoholism worldwide (4.1% of the population over 15 years of age). Substance use disorders are a major public health problem facing many countries. \"The most common substance of abuse/dependence in patients presenting for treatment is alcohol.\" In the United Kingdom, the number of 'dependent drinkers' was calculated as over 2.8 million in 2001. About 12% of American adults have had an alcohol dependence problem at some time in their life. In the United States and Western Europe, 10 to 20 percent of men and 5 to 10 percent of women at some point in their lives will meet criteria for alcoholism. Estonia had the highest death rate from alcohol in Europe in 2015 at 8.8 per 100,000 population. In the United States, 30% of people admitted to hospital have a problem related to alcohol.\n\nWithin the medical and scientific communities, there is a broad consensus regarding alcoholism as a disease state. For example, the American Medical Association considers alcohol a drug and states that \"drug addiction is a chronic, relapsing brain disease characterized by compulsive drug seeking and use despite often devastating consequences. It results from a complex interplay of biological vulnerability, environmental exposure, and developmental factors (e.g., stage of brain maturity).\" Alcoholism has a higher prevalence among men, though, in recent decades, the proportion of female alcoholics has increased. Current evidence indicates that in both men and women, alcoholism is 50–60 percent genetically determined, leaving 40–50 percent for environmental influences. Most alcoholics develop alcoholism during adolescence or young adulthood. 31 percent of college students show signs of alcohol abuse, while six percent are dependent on alcohol. Under the DSM's new definition of alcoholics, that means about 37 percent of college students may meet the criteria.\n\nAlcoholism often reduces a person's life expectancy by around ten years. The most common cause of death in alcoholics is from cardiovascular complications. There is a high rate of suicide in chronic alcoholics, which increases the longer a person drinks. Approximately 3–15 percent of alcoholics commit suicide, and research has found that over 50 percent of all suicides are associated with alcohol or drug dependence. This is believed to be due to alcohol causing physiological distortion of brain chemistry, as well as social isolation. Suicide is also very common in adolescent alcohol abusers, with 25 percent of suicides in adolescents being related to alcohol abuse. Among those with alcohol dependence after one year, some met the criteria for low-risk drinking, even though only 25.5 percent of the group received any treatment, with the breakdown as follows: 25 percent were found to be still dependent, 27.3 percent were in partial remission (some symptoms persist), 11.8 percent asymptomatic drinkers (consumption increases chances of relapse) and 35.9 percent were fully recovered—made up of 17.7 percent low-risk drinkers plus 18.2 percent abstainers. In contrast, however, the results of a long-term (60-year) follow-up of two groups of alcoholic men indicated that \"return to controlled drinking rarely persisted for much more than a decade without relapse or evolution into abstinence.\" There was also \"return-to-controlled drinking, as reported in short-term studies, is often a mirage.\"\n\nHistorically the name \"dipsomania\" was coined by German physician C. W. Hufeland in 1819 before it was superseded by \"alcoholism\". That term now has a more specific meaning. The term \"alcoholism\" was first used in 1849 by the Swedish physician Magnus Huss to describe the systematic adverse effects of alcohol.\nAlcohol has a long history of use and misuse throughout recorded history. Biblical, Egyptian and Babylonian sources record the history of abuse and dependence on alcohol. In some ancient cultures alcohol was worshiped and in others, its abuse was condemned. Excessive alcohol misuse and drunkenness were recognized as causing social problems even thousands of years ago. However, the defining of habitual drunkenness as it was then known as and its adverse consequences were not well established medically until the 18th century. In 1647 a Greek monk named Agapios was the first to document that chronic alcohol misuse was associated with toxicity to the nervous system and body which resulted in a range of medical disorders such as seizures, paralysis, and internal bleeding. In 1920 the effects of alcohol abuse and chronic drunkenness boosted membership of the temperance movement and led to the prohibition of alcohol in the United States, a nationwide constitutional ban on the production, importation, transportation, and sale of alcoholic beverages that remained in place until 1933; this policy resulted in the decline of death rates from cirrhosis and alcoholism. In 2005 alcohol dependence and abuse was estimated to cost the US economy approximately 220 billion dollars per year, more than cancer and obesity.\n\nThe various health problems associated with long-term alcohol consumption are generally perceived as detrimental to society, for example, money due to lost labor-hours, medical costs due to injuries due to drunkenness and organ damage from long-term use, and secondary treatment costs, such as the costs of rehabilitation facilities and detoxification centers. Alcohol use is a major contributing factor for head injuries, motor vehicle accidents (due to drunk driving), domestic violence, and assaults. Beyond the financial costs that alcohol consumption imposes, there are also significant social costs to both the alcoholic and their family and friends. For instance, alcohol consumption by a pregnant woman can lead to fetal alcohol syndrome, an incurable and damaging condition. Estimates of the economic costs of alcohol abuse, collected by the World Health Organization, vary from one to six percent of a country's GDP. One Australian estimate pegged alcohol's social costs at 24% of all drug abuse costs; a similar Canadian study concluded alcohol's share was 41%. One study quantified the cost to the UK of \"all\" forms of alcohol misuse in 2001 as £18.5–20 billion. All economic costs in the United States in 2006 have been estimated at $223.5 billion.\n\nStereotypes of alcoholics are often found in fiction and popular culture. The \"town drunk\" is a stock character in Western popular culture. Stereotypes of drunkenness may be based on racism or xenophobia, as in the fictional depiction of the Irish as heavy drinkers. Studies by social psychologists Stivers and Greeley attempt to document the perceived prevalence of high alcohol consumption amongst the Irish in America. Alcohol consumption is relatively similar between many European cultures, the United States, and Australia. In Asian countries that have a high gross domestic product, there is heightened drinking compared to other Asian countries, but it is nowhere near as high as it is in other countries like the United States. It is also inversely seen, with countries that have very low gross domestic product showing high alcohol consumption. In a study done on Korean immigrants in Canada, they reported alcohol was even an integral part of their meal, and is the only time solo drinking should occur. They also believe alcohol is necessary at any social event as it helps conversations start.\n\nCaucasians have a much lower abstinence rate (11.8%) and much higher tolerance to symptoms (3.4±2.45 drinks) of alcohol than Chinese (33.4% and 2.2±1.78 drinks respectively). Also, the more acculturation there is between cultures, the more influenced the culture is to adopt Caucasians drinking practices. Peyote, a psychoactive agent, has even shown promise in treating alcoholism. Alcohol had actually replaced peyote as Native Americans’ psychoactive agent of choice in rituals when peyote was outlawed.\n\nTopiramate, a derivative of the naturally occurring sugar monosaccharide D-fructose, has been found effective in helping alcoholics quit or cut back on the amount they drink. Evidence suggests that topiramate antagonizes excitatory glutamate receptors, inhibits dopamine release, and enhances inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid function. A 2008 review of the effectiveness of topiramate concluded that the results of published trials are promising, however, as of 2008, data was insufficient to support using topiramate in conjunction with brief weekly compliance counseling as a first-line agent for alcohol dependence. A 2010 review found that topiramate may be superior to existing alcohol pharmacotherapeutic options. Topiramate effectively reduces craving and alcohol withdrawal severity as well as improving quality-of-life-ratings.\n\nBaclofen, a GABAB receptor agonist, is under study for the treatment of alcoholism. A 2017 systematic review concluded that there is insufficient evidence to draw any conclusions about the safety and efficacy because the evidence is of low quality and insufficient.\n\nOndansetron, a 5HT3 antagonist, appears to have promise as a treatment.\n\nAccording to a retrospective analysis of six studies from the 1960s and 1970s LSD-assisted psychotherapy has potential as a treatment for alcoholism.\n\n"}
{"id": "2121693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121693", "title": "Alfred Bloom", "text": "Alfred Bloom\n\nAlfred H. Bloom is an American psychologist and linguist and vice chancellor of New York University Abu Dhabi. \n\nBloom joined NYU Abu Dhabi from Swarthmore College, where he completed an 18-year tenure as president in 2009. Under Bloom, Swarthmore assumed a position of broadly recognized leadership in American liberal arts education. During Bloom’s tenure, the College revitalized its academically rigorous Honors Program, undertook extensive renovation and creation of academic buildings, broadened its multicultural curriculum, expanded foreign study, and established the Eugene M. Lang Center for Civic and Social Responsibility.\n\nDuring the Bloom presidency, the College dramatically increased its diversity, with the proportion of students of color in the entering class rising from 16 percent to 39 percent. The College also achieved a significant increase in admissions applications and selectivity, most recently with more than 6,200 applications of extraordinary quality for approximately 375 places in the Class of 2012. Swarthmore's endowment grew from $400 million in 1991 to $1.4 billion in 2009. In addition, the College raised more than $362 million in gifts during that period. The College also expanded its commitment to financial aid, eliminating loans from students' financial aid packages, and ensuring that aid covered all foreign study. In 2000, Bloom and Swarthmore's Board of Managers, in a controversial decision, eliminated the College's football program.\n\nPrior to assuming the presidency at Swarthmore, Bloom served as executive vice president of Pitzer College in Claremont, California. Previously, he was vice president of academic affairs and dean of faculty at Pitzer. He was appointed as an assistant professor of psychology and linguistics at Swarthmore in 1974, and named associate provost in 1985.\n\nIn 1967, Bloom received his B.A., \"summa cum laude\" in Romance languages and European civilization from Princeton University. That year, he studied in France as a Fulbright-Hays fellow. In 1974, he received his Ph.D. in psychology and social relations from Harvard University. The concept of \"ethical intelligence,” which has gained currency within and outside of higher education, was introduced by Bloom who first expressed it in his inaugural address as president of Swarthmore in 1991 and has since amplified its meaning in numerous writings and speeches.\n\nBloom's research brings together psychology and linguistics, particularly with respect to how they help us to understand cross-cultural continuities and differences in thought and moral understanding and the reciprocal impact of language on thought and thought on language. He is the author of \"The Linguistic Shaping of Thought: A Study of the Impact of Language on Thinking in China and the West\" (Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1981) and Moral Behavior in Chinese Society (Praeger Publishers, 1981) as well as numerous articles including \"The Privileging of Experience in Chinese Practical Reasoning,\" Journal of Chinese Philosophy; \"Psychological Ingredients of High-Level Moral Thinking: A Critique of the Kohlberg-Gilligan Paradigm,\" Journal for the Theory of Social Behavior; and \"Caution - The words you use may affect what you say,\" Cognition.\n\nBloom is the recipient of honorary doctorates from the University of Richmond and Swarthmore College.\n\nBloom's research has focused on the comparative study of languages, especially between Mandarin and English. Bloom has argued for a weak version of the so-called linguistic relativity hypothesis, which postulates an influence of language on the way speakers conceptualize and arrange the reality; he has tried to show this through his most widely known experiment. He selected two different groups of subjects, one composed of native English speakers and the other composed of Chinese speakers; the subjects were shown a text written in their own respective languages, and their task was to read that text and, afterwards, give an answer to the question whether or not what it told had actually happened. The text, which had been initially written in English and later on translated into Chinese in a literal way, reported a set of counterfactual events that were told by using the subjunctive, a verb tense that is nowhere found in the Sinitic languages. In the end, Chinese speakers gave a much higher percentage of wrong answers than the English group. Therefore, Bloom's conclusion was the impossibility to translate literally between languages: Chinese and English express different thoughts, even when they are telling the same story.\n\nThis experiment has been disputed by several authors. Au, for example, conducted an extended version of the same experiment: he used different versions of the Chinese text. In those cases in which the translation was not too literal, the text became more intelligible to its readers, and therefore they were able to understand what it reported. Pinker, following Au, has also criticized Bloom's results.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55783290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55783290", "title": "Anabella Azín", "text": "Anabella Azín\n\nAnnabella Emma Azín Arce (born 30 May 1961) is an Ecuadorian politician, doctor of medicine, and wife of Álvaro Noboa she has four children. She is the president of the Crusade for a New Humanity Foundation, caring for those afflicted by disease for over 20 years. She has participated in protest marches against the government of Rafael Correa.\n\nAzín has been a member of the National Congress of Ecuador for Guayas Province and a member of the Ecuadorian Constituent Assembly, both times representing the Institutional Renewal Party of National Action. She was a binomial candidate for the office of vice president of Ecuador with her husband in the Ecuadorian presidential elections of 2009 and 2013.\n\nAnabella Azín was born on 30 May 1961, the first of three daughters to Giorgio Azín and Grecia Arce. She obtained a doctorate in medicine from the Catholic University of Santiago de Guayaquil.\n\nAzín hosted the 2015 Ecuador Fashion Week on 17 September and received several gifts from CN Modelos and Karla Benítz. She accepted the invitation of Cecilia Niemes, director of Ecuador Fashion Week, to host the venue after Azín completed her Master's degree.\n\nAzín has campaigned for the creation of a successor to PRIAN.\n"}
{"id": "47964687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47964687", "title": "Anthropometric history", "text": "Anthropometric history\n\nAnthropometric history is the study of the history of human height and weight. It has historical roots. In the 1830s, Adolphe Quetelet and Louis R. Villermé studied the physical stature of populations. In the 1960s, French historians analyzed the relationship between socio-economic variables and human height. Anthropometric history was established as field of study in the late 1970s when economic historians Robert Fogel, John Komlos, Richard Steckel and other academics began to study the history of human physical stature and its relationship to economic development. A branch of cliometrics, it uses trends and cross-sectional patterns in human physical stature to understand historical processes.\n\n"}
{"id": "4946978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4946978", "title": "Botsvatn", "text": "Botsvatn\n\nBotsvatn or Bossvatn is a lake in the municipality of Bykle in Aust-Agder county, Norway. The long, narrow reservoir is located just to the southeast of the large lake Blåsjø and northeast of the lake Ytre Storevatnet. The lake holds water for the Brokke Hydroelectric Power Station, located in nearby Valle municipality. The water from the lake can flow out into the nearby river Otra, but only when water is released from the dam.\n\nThe village of Nordbygdi is located on the north shore of the lake, and the village of Bykle is located about to the east of the lake along the Norwegian National Road 9. The mountain Steinheii lies on the south shore of the lake and the mountain Strondefjell lies on the north side of the lake.\n\n"}
{"id": "34500030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34500030", "title": "Carina Vance Mafla", "text": "Carina Vance Mafla\n\nCarina Isabel Vance Mafla (born 1977) is a former Minister for Public Health of Ecuador. Vance was born in Oakland, California. She went to high school in Ecuador and attended university in the United States. After attending Williams College for her undergraduate degree and earning a master's degree in public health from the University of California, Berkeley, she returned to Ecuador in 2004.\n\nVance is openly lesbian. She spent time in Europe as a girl, where, at the age of thirteen, she and her first girlfriend were attacked by homophobic youths. Vance had already begun to understand and accept her identity as a lesbian, but said that this incident \"was not only a discovery of my homosexuality, but also society's reaction to it.\" She subsequently worked as a lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) rights activist and was the executive director of Fundacion Causana, a lesbian rights organization.\n\nVance was appointed to the Cabinet by President Rafael Correa in January 2012, after her predecessor David Chiriboga resigned amid concerns that he was unable to fix the problems in Ecuador's national healthcare system. Vance announced her intent to shut down a system of religious \"clinics\" which said they could \"cure\" gays and particularly lesbians of their homosexuality and which had been reported to torture inmates physically and psychologically and to hold them against their will. Fundacion Causana had been working to close these sorts of institutions for ten years. When a network of almost 200 such illegal \"clinics\" was discovered four years earlier, Vance's organization and other LGBT rights and progressive organizations pressured Correa's government to shut them down. This led to the closure of thirty such clinics in September 2011 and a plan, presented by Chiriboga before his resignation, to continue the work. Soon after Vance was appointed to the Cabinet, the ministry raided three of the \"torture clinics\" near Quito and rescued dozens of women. She also discussed plans to reform the administration of the country's hospitals.\n\n"}
{"id": "33132746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33132746", "title": "Confabulation", "text": "Confabulation\n\nIn psychiatry, confabulation (verb: confabulate) is a memory error defined as the production of fabricated, distorted, or misinterpreted memories about oneself or the world, without the conscious intention to deceive. People who confabulate present incorrect memories ranging from \"subtle alterations to bizarre fabrications\", and are generally very confident about their recollections, despite contradictory evidence.\n\nConfabulation is distinguished from lying as there is no intent to deceive and the person is unaware the information is false. Although individuals can present blatantly false information, confabulation can also seem to be coherent, internally consistent, and relatively normal.\n\nMost known cases of confabulation are symptomatic of brain damage or dementias, such as aneurysm, Alzheimer's disease, or Wernicke–Korsakoff syndrome (a common manifestation of thiamine deficiency caused by alcoholism). Additionally confabulation often occurs in people who are suffering from anticholinergic toxidrome when interrogated about bizarre or irrational behaviour.\n\nConfabulated memories of all types most often occur in autobiographical memory and are indicative of a complicated and intricate process that can be led astray at any point during encoding, storage, or recall of a memory. This type of confabulation is commonly seen in Korsakoff's syndrome.\n\nTwo types of confabulation are often distinguished:\n\nAnother distinction is that between:\n\nConfabulation is associated with several characteristics:\n\nTheories of confabulation range in emphasis. Some theories propose that confabulations represent a way for memory-disabled people to maintain their self-identity. Other theories use neurocognitive links to explain the process of confabulation. Still other theories frame confabulation around the more familiar concept of delusion. Other researchers frame confabulation within the fuzzy-trace theory. Finally, some researchers call for theories that rely less on neurocognitive explanations and more on epistemic accounts. \n\nThe most popular theories of confabulation come from the field of neuropsychology or cognitive neuroscience. Research suggests that confabulation is associated with dysfunction of cognitive processes that control the retrieval from long-term memory. Frontal lobe damage often disrupts this process, preventing the retrieval of information and the evaluation of its output. Furthermore, researchers argue that confabulation is a disorder resulting from failed \"reality monitoring/source monitoring\" (i.e. deciding whether a memory is based on an actual event or whether it is imagined). Some neuropsychologists suggest that errors in retrieval of information from long-term memory that are made by normal subjects involve different components of control processes than errors made by confabulators. Kraepelin distinguished two subtypes of confabulation, one of which he called simple confabulation, caused partly by errors in the temporal ordering of real events. The other variety he called fantastic confabulation, which was bizarre and patently impossible statements not rooted in true memory. Simple confabulation may result from damage to memory systems in the medial temporal lobe. Fantastic confabulations reveal a dysfunction of the Supervisory System, which is believed to be a function of the frontal cortex.\n\nSome argue confabulations have a self-serving, emotional component in those with memory deficits that aids to maintain a coherent self-concept. In other words, people who confabulate are motivated to do so, because they have gaps in their memory that they want to fill in and cover up.\n\nSupport for the temporality account suggests that confabulations occur when an individual is unable to place events properly in time. Thus, an individual might correctly state an action he/she performed, but say he/she did it yesterday, when he/she did it weeks ago. In the Memory, Consciousness, and Temporality Theory, confabulation occurs because of a deficit in temporal consciousness or awareness.\n\nAlong a similar notion are the theories of reality and source monitoring theories. In these theories, confabulation occurs when individuals incorrectly attribute memories as reality, or incorrectly attribute memories to a certain source. Thus, an individual might claim an imagined event happened in reality, or that a friend told him/her about an event he/she actually heard about on television.\n\nSupporters of the strategic retrieval account suggest that confabulations occur when an individual cannot actively monitor a memory for truthfulness after its retrieval. An individual recalls a memory, but there is some deficit after recall that interferes with the person establishing its falseness.\n\nStill others propose that all types of false memories, including confabulation, fit into a general memory and executive function model. In 2007, a framework for confabulation was proposed that stated confabulation is the result of two things: Problems with executive control and problems with evaluation. In the executive control deficit, the incorrect memory is retrieved from the brain. In the evaluative deficit, the memory will be accepted as a truth due to an inability to distinguish a belief from an actual memory.\n\nRecent models of confabulation have attempted to build upon the link between delusion and confabulation. More recently, a monitoring account for delusion, applied to confabulation, proposed both the inclusion of conscious and unconscious processing. The claim was that by encompassing the notion of both processes, spontaneous versus provoked confabulations could be better explained. In other words, there are two ways to confabulate. One is the unconscious, spontaneous way in which a memory goes through no logical, explanatory processing. The other is the conscious, provoked way in which a memory is recalled intentionally by the individual to explain something confusing or unusual.\n\nFuzzy-trace theory, or FTT, is a concept more commonly applied to the explanation of judgement decisions. According to this theory, memories are encoded generally (gist), as well as specifically (verbatim). Thus, a confabulation could result from recalling the incorrect verbatim memory or from being able to recall the gist portion, but not the verbatim portion, of a memory.\n\nFTT uses a set of five principles to explain false-memory phenomena. Principle 1 suggests that subjects store verbatim information and gist information parallel to one another. Both forms of storage involve the surface content of an experience. Principle 2 shares factors of retrieval of gist and verbatim traces. Principle 3 is based on dual-opponent processes in false memory. Generally, gist retrieval supports false memory, while verbatim retrieval suppresses it. Developmental variability is the topic of Principle 4. As a child develops into an adult, there is obvious improvement in the acquisition, retention, and retrieval of both verbatim and gist memory. However, during late adulthood, there will be a decline in these abilities. Finally, Principle 5 explains that verbatim and gist processing cause vivid remembering. Fuzzy-trace Theory, governed by these 5 principles, has proved useful in explaining false memory and generating new predictions about it.\n\nHowever, not all accounts are so embedded in the neurocognitive aspects of confabulation. Some attribute confabulation to epistemic accounts. In 2009, theories underlying the causation and mechanisms for confabulation were criticized for their focus on neural processes, which are somewhat unclear, as well as their emphasis on the negativity of false remembering. Researchers proposed that an epistemic account of confabulation would be more encompassing of both the advantages and disadvantages of the process.\n\nConfabulations are often symptoms of various syndromes and psychopathologies in the adult population including: Korsakoff's syndrome, Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, and traumatic brain injury.\n\nWernicke–Korsakoff syndrome is a neurological disorder typically characterized by years of chronic alcohol abuse and a nutritional thiamine deficiency. Confabulation is one salient symptom of this syndrome. A study on confabulation in Korsakoff’s patients found that they are subject to provoked confabulation when prompted with questions pertaining to episodic memory, not semantic memory, and when prompted with questions where the appropriate response would be \"I don’t know.\" This suggests that confabulation in these patients is \"domain-specific.\" Korsakoff’s patients who confabulate are more likely than healthy adults to falsely recognize distractor words, suggesting that false recognition is a \"confabulatory behavior.\"\n\nAlzheimer's disease is a condition with both neurological and psychological components. It is a form of dementia associated with severe frontal lobe dysfunction. Confabulation in individuals with Alzheimer's is often more spontaneous than it is in other conditions, especially in the advanced stages of the disease. Alzheimer's patients demonstrate comparable abilities to encode information as healthy elderly adults, suggesting that impairments in encoding are not associated with confabulation. However, as seen in Korsakoff's patients, confabulation in Alzheimer's patients is higher when prompted with questions investigating episodic memory. Researchers suggest this is due to damage in the posterior cortical regions of the brain, which is a symptom characteristic of Alzheimer's Disease.\n\nSchizophrenia is a psychological disorder in which confabulation is sometimes observed. Although confabulation is usually coherent in its presentation, confabulations of schizophrenic patients are often delusional Researchers have noted that these patients tend to make up delusions on the spot which are often fantastic and become increasingly elaborate with questioning. Unlike patients with Korsakoff's and Alzheimer's, patients with schizophrenia are more likely to confabulate when prompted with questions regarding their semantic memories, as opposed to episodic memory prompting. In addition, confabulation does not appear to be related to any memory deficit in schizophrenic patients. This is contrary to most forms of confabulation. Also, confabulations made by schizophrenic patients often do not involve the creation of new information, but instead involve an attempt by the patient to reconstruct actual details of a past event.\n\nTraumatic brain injury (TBI) can also result in confabulation. Research has shown that patients with damage to the inferior medial frontal lobe confabulate significantly more than patients with damage to the posterior area and healthy controls. This suggests that this region is key in producing confabulatory responses, and that memory deficit is important but not necessary in confabulation. Additionally, research suggests that confabulation can be seen in patients with frontal lobe syndrome, which involves an insult to the frontal lobe as a result of disease or traumatic brain injury (TBI). Finally, rupture of the anterior or posterior communicating artery, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and encephalitis are also possible causes of confabulation.\n\nConfabulation is believed to be a result of damage to the right frontal lobe of the brain. In particular, damage can be localized to the ventromedial frontal lobes and other structures fed by the anterior communicating artery (ACoA), including the basal forebrain, septum, fornix, cingulate gyrus, cingulum, anterior hypothalamus, and head of the caudate nucleus.\n\nWhile some recent literature has suggested that older adults may be more susceptible than their younger counterparts to have false memories, the majority of research on forced confabulation centers around children. Children are particularly susceptible to forced confabulations based on their high suggestibility. When forced to recall confabulated events, children are less likely to remember that they had previously confabulated these situations, and they are more likely than their adult counterparts to come to remember these confabulations as real events that transpired. Research suggests that this inability to distinguish between past confabulatory and real events is centered on developmental differences in source monitoring. Due to underdeveloped encoding and critical reasoning skills, children's ability to distinguish real memories from false memories may be impaired. It may also be that younger children lack the meta-memory processes required to remember confabulated versus non-confabulated events. Children's meta-memory processes may also be influenced by expectancies or biases, in that they believe that highly plausible false scenarios are not confabulated. However, when knowingly being tested for accuracy, children are more likely to respond, \"I don’t know\" at a rate comparable to adults for unanswerable questions than they are to confabulate. Ultimately, misinformation effects can be minimized by tailoring individual interviews to the specific developmental stage, often based on age, of the participant.\n\nThere is evidence to support different cognitive mechanisms for provoked and spontaneous confabulation. One study suggested that spontaneous confabulation may be a result of an amnesic patient’s inability to distinguish the chronological order of events in their memory. In contrast, provoked confabulation may be a compensatory mechanism, in which the patient tries to make up for their memory deficiency by attempting to demonstrate competency in recollection.\n\nConfabulation of events or situations may lead to an eventual acceptance of the confabulated information as true. For instance, people who knowingly lie about a situation may eventually come to believe that their lies are truthful with time. In an interview setting, people are more likely to confabulate in situations in which they are presented false information by another person, as opposed to when they self-generate these falsehoods. Further, people are more likely to accept false information as true when they are interviewed at a later time (after the event in question) than those who are interviewed immediately or soon after the event. Affirmative feedback for confabulated responses is also shown to increase the confabulator’s confidence in their response. For instance, in culprit identification, if a witness falsely identifies a member of a line-up, he will be more confident in his identification if the interviewer provides affirmative feedback. This effect of confirmatory feedback appears to last over time, as witnesses will even remember the confabulated information months later.\n\nOn rare occasions, confabulation can also be seen in normal subjects. It is currently unclear how completely healthy individuals produce confabulations. It is possible that these individuals are in the process of developing some type of organic condition that is causing their confabulation symptoms. It is not uncommon, however, for the general population to display some very mild symptoms of provoked confabulations. Subtle distortions and intrusions in memory are commonly produced by normal subjects when they remember something poorly.\n\nSpontaneous confabulations, due to their involuntary nature, cannot be manipulated in a laboratory setting. However, provoked confabulations can be researched in various theoretical contexts. The mechanisms found to underlie provoked confabulations can be applied to spontaneous confabulation mechanisms. The basic premise of researching confabulation comprises finding errors and distortions in memory tests of an individual.\n\nConfabulations can be detected in the context of the Deese–Roediger–McDermott paradigm by using the Deese–Roediger–McDermott lists. Participants listen to audio recordings of several lists of words centered around a theme, known as the critical word. The participants are later asked to recall the words on their list. If the participant recalls the critical word, which was never explicitly stated in the list, it is considered a confabulation. Participants often have a false memory for the critical word.\n\nConfabulations can also be researched by using continuous recognition tasks. These tasks are often used in conjunction with confidence ratings. Generally, in a recognition task, participants are rapidly presented with pictures. Some of these pictures are shown once; others are shown multiple times. Participants press a key if they have seen the picture previously. Following a period of time, participants repeat the task. More errors on the second task, versus the first, are indicative of confusion, representing false memories.\n\nConfabulations can also be detected using a free recall task, such as a self-narrative task. Participants are asked to recall stories (semantic or autobiographical) that are highly familiar to them. The stories recalled are encoded for errors that could be classified as distortions in memory. Distortions could include falsifying true story elements or including details from a completely different story. Errors such as these would be indicative of confabulations.\n\nTreatment for confabulation is somewhat dependent on the cause or source, if identifiable. For example, treatment of Wernicke–Korsakoff syndrome involves large doses of vitamin B in order to reverse the thiamine deficiency. If there is no known physiological cause, more general cognitive techniques may be used to treat confabulation. A case study published in 2000 showed that Self-Monitoring Training (SMT) reduced delusional confabulations. Furthermore, improvements were maintained at a three-month follow-up and were found to generalize to everyday settings. Although this treatment seems promising, more rigorous research is necessary to determine the efficacy of SMT in the general confabulation population.\n\nAlthough significant gains have been made in the understanding of confabulation in recent years, there is still much to be learned. One group of researchers in particular has laid-out several important questions for future-study. They suggest more information is needed regarding the neural-systems that support the different cognitive processes necessary for normal source-monitoring. They also proposed the idea of developing a standard neuro-psychological test battery able to discriminate between the different types of confabulations. And there is a considerable amount of debate regarding the best approach to organizing and combining neuro-imaging, pharmacological, and cognitive/behavioral approaches to understand confabulation.\n\nIn a recent review article, another group of researchers contemplate issues concerning the distinctions between delusions and confabulation. They question whether delusions and confabulation should be considered distinct or overlapping disorders and, if overlapping, to what degree? They also discuss the role of unconscious processes in confabulation. Some researchers suggest that unconscious emotional and motivational processes are potentially just as important as cognitive and memory problems. Finally, they raise the question of where to draw the line between the pathological and the nonpathological. Delusion-like beliefs and confabulation-like fabrications are commonly seen in healthy individuals. What are the important differences between patients with similar etiology who do and do not confabulate? Since the line between pathological and nonpathological is likely blurry, should we take a more dimensional approach to confabulation? Research suggests that confabulation occurs along a continuum of implausibility, bizarreness, content, conviction, preoccupation, and distress, and impact on daily life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7454504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7454504", "title": "Congenital epulis", "text": "Congenital epulis\n\nCongenital epulis is a proliferation of cells most frequently occurring on the alveolar ridge of the upper jaw at birth. Less frequently the mass may arise from the mandibular alveolus. Rare cases can arise from the tongue. This lesion is more commonly found in female babies, suggesting hormonal involvement during embryonic development. The cause of this type of epulis is unknown. Also known as congenital granular cell tumor or Neumann's tumor; historically referred to as granular cell myoblastoma.\n\nMultiple lesions occur in 10% of affected neonates. The tumor is typically pedunculated and varies in maximum size from 0.5 cm to 9 cm. The lesion is typically painless and does not increase in size after discovery. Some small lesions may regress over time. Treatment is surgical excision. Recurrence is extremely rare even after incomplete excision.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4985830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4985830", "title": "Critical control point", "text": "Critical control point\n\nCritical Control Point (CCP) is the point where the failure of Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) could cause harm to customers and to the business, or even loss of the business itself. It is a point, step or procedure at which controls can be applied and a food safety hazard can be prevented, eliminated or reduced to acceptable (critical) levels. The most common CCP is cooking, where food safety managers designate critical limits. CCP identification is also an important step in risk and reliability analysis for water treatment processes.\n\nIn the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) establishes minimum internal temperatures for cooked foods. It is important to remember that these values can be superseded by state or local health code requirements, but they cannot be below the FDA limits. Temperatures should be measured with a probe thermometer in the thickest part of meats, or the center of other dishes, avoiding bones and container sides. Minimum internal temperatures are set as follows:\n\n165°F (74°C) for 15 seconds\n\n155°F (68°C) for 15 seconds\n\n145°F (63°C) for 15 seconds\n\n145°F (63°C) for 4 minutes\n\n135°F (57°C) for 15 seconds\n\nIn addition, hot food must be held at a minimum interval of 135°F (57°C) if it is not immediately consumed. The temperature must be checked every 4 hours or else labeled with a discard time. Although monitored hot food can be held indefinitely in this way without a food safety concern, the nutritional value, flavor, and quality can suffer over long periods.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6405285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6405285", "title": "Dietary indiscretion", "text": "Dietary indiscretion\n\nDietary indiscretion is the tendency of certain animal of eating unusual items. These are frequently relatively small items not encountered in a natural habitat and thus sampled because of mistaken identity, a familiar flavor, or simple curiosity. This includes modern manufactured items such as shiny metal foil or plastic objects, as well as foods harmful to health. Domesticated animals such as dogs and goats, and even circus animals like Ostriches are even more prone to the effect due to their contact with people. The dietary indiscretion of fish, especially Sharks, may occur when the mouth is the major organ of detection and processing.\n\n"}
{"id": "3665681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3665681", "title": "Distribution (pharmacology)", "text": "Distribution (pharmacology)\n\nDistribution in pharmacology is a branch of pharmacokinetics which describes the reversible transfer of a drug from one location to another within the body.\n\nOnce a drug enters into systemic circulation by absorption or direct administration, it must be distributed into interstitial and intracellular fluids. Each organ or tissue can receive different doses of the drug and the drug can remain in the different organs or tissues for a varying amount of time. The distribution of a drug between tissues is dependent on vascular permeability, regional blood flow, cardiac output and perfusion rate of the tissue and the ability of the drug to bind tissue and plasma proteins and its lipid solubility. pH partition plays a major role as well. The drug is easily distributed in highly perfused organs such as the liver, heart and kidney. It is distributed in small quantities through less perfused tissues like muscle, fat and peripheral organs. The drug can be moved from the plasma to the tissue until the equilibrium is established (for unbound drug present in plasma).\n\nThe concept of compartmentalization of an organism must be considered when discussing a drug’s distribution. This concept is used in pharmacokinetic modelling.\n\nThere are many factors that affect a drug's distribution throughout an organism, but Pascuzzo considers that the most important ones are the following: an organism's physical volume, the removal rate and the degree to which a drug binds with plasma proteins and / or tissues.\n\nThis concept is related to multi-compartmentalization. Any drugs within an organism will act as a solute and the organism's tissues will act as solvents. The differing specificities of different tissues will give rise to different concentrations of the drug within each group. Therefore, the chemical characteristics of a drug will determine its distribution within an organism. For example, a liposoluble drug will tend to accumulate in body fat and water-soluble drugs will tend to accumulate in extracellular fluids. The volume of distribution (V) of a drug is a property that quantifies the extent of its distribution. It can be defined as the theoretical volume that a drug would have to occupy (if it were uniformly distributed), to provide the same concentration as it currently is in blood plasma. It can be determined from the following formula:\nformula_1\nWhere: formula_2 is total amount of the drug in the body and formula_3 is the drug's plasma concentration.\n\nAs the value for formula_2 is equivalent to the dose of the drug that has been administered the formula shows us that there is an inversely proportional relationship between formula_5 and formula_3. That is, that the greater formula_3 is the lower formula_5 will be and vice versa. It therefore follows that the factors that increase formula_3 will decrease formula_5. This gives an indication of the importance of knowledge relating to the drug's plasma concentration and the factors that modify it.\n\nIf this formula is applied to the concepts relating to bioavailability, we can calculate the amount of drug to administer in order to obtain a required concentration of the drug in the organism (\"'loading dose\"):\n\nformula_11\n\nThis concept is of clinical interest as it is sometimes necessary to reach a certain concentration of a drug that is known to be optimal in order for it to have the required effects on the organism (as occurs if a patient is to be scanned).\n\nA drug's removal rate will be determined by the proportion of the drug that is removed from circulation by each organ once the drug has been delivered to the organ by the circulating blood supply. \nThis new concept builds on earlier ideas and it depends on a number of distinct factors:\n\nSome drugs have the capacity to bind with certain types of proteins that are carried in blood plasma. This is important as only drugs that are present in the plasma in their free form can be transported to the tissues. Drugs that are bound to plasma proteins therefore act as a reservoir of the drug within the organism and this binding reduces the drug's final concentration in the tissues. The binding between a drug and plasma protein is rarely specific and is usually labile and reversible. The binding generally involves ionic bonds, hydrogen bonds, Van der Waals forces and, less often, covalent bonds. This means that the bond between a drug and a protein can be broken and the drug can be replaced by another substance (or another drug) and that, regardless of this, the protein binding is subject to saturation. An equilibrium also exists between the free drug in the blood plasma and that bound to proteins, meaning that the proportion of the drug bound to plasma proteins will be stable, independent of its total concentration in the plasma.\n\nIn vitro studies carried out under optimum conditions have shown that the equilibrium between a drug's plasmatic concentration and its tissue concentration is only significantly altered at binding rates to plasma proteins of greater than 90%. Above these levels the drug is \"sequestered\", which decreases its presence in tissues by up to 50%. This is important when considering pharmacological interactions: the tissue concentration of a drug with a plasma protein binding rate of less than 90% is not going to significantly increase if that drug is displaced from its union with a protein by another substance. On the other hand, at binding rates of greater than 95% small changes can cause important modifications in a drug's tissue concentration. This will, in turn, increase the risk of the drug having a toxic effect on tissues.\n\nPerhaps the most important plasma proteins are the albumins as they are present in relatively high concentrations and they readily bind to other substances. Other important proteins include the glycoproteins, the lipoproteins and to a lesser degree the globulins.\n\nIt is therefore easy to see that clinical conditions that modify the levels of plasma proteins (for example, hypoalbuminemias brought on by renal dysfunction) may affect the effect and toxicity of a drug that has a binding rate with plasma proteins of above 90%.\n\nHighly lipid-soluble drugs given by intravenous or inhalation routes are initially distributed to organs with high blood flow. Later, less vascular but more bulky tissues (such as muscle and fat) take up the drug—plasma concentration falls and the drug is withdrawn from these sites. If the site of action of the drug was in one of the highly perfused organs, redistribution results in termination of the drug action. The greater the lipid solubility of the drug, the faster its redistribution will be. For example, the anaesthetic action of thiopentone is terminated in a few minutes due to redistribution. However, when the same drug is given repeatedly or continuously over long periods, the low-perfusion and high-capacity sites are progressively filled up and the drug becomes longer-acting.\n\nIt is reversible process of moving drug of sites of highly perfused to systemic circulation,FMAS\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20517233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20517233", "title": "Empiric school", "text": "Empiric school\n\nThe Empiric school of medicine (\"Empirics\", \"Empiricists\", or \"Empirici\", ) was an ancient school of medicine in ancient Greece and Rome. They were so called from the word \"empeiria\" (ἐμπειρία \"experience\") because they professed to derive their knowledge from \"experiences\" only, and in doing so set themselves in opposition to the Dogmatic school. Serapion of Alexandria, and Philinus of Cos, are regarded as the founders of this school in the 3rd century BC. Other physicians who belonged to this sect were: Apollonius of Citium, Glaucias, Heraclides, Bacchius, Zeuxis, Menodotus, Theodas, Herodotus of Tarsus, Aeschrion, Sextus Empiricus, and Marcellus Empiricus. The sect survived a long time, as Marcellus lived in the 4th century. The doctrines of this school are described by Aulus Cornelius Celsus in the introduction to his \"De Medicina\".\n\nThe Empiric school of medicine had substantial overlap with the Greek philosophical school of Pyrrhonism. Galen noted that the Empirics approached medicine exactly as the Pyrrhonists approached the whole of life. Many of the well-known Empirics were also Pyrrhonist teachers, including: Sextus Empiricus, Herodotus of Tarsus, Heraclides, Theodas, and Menodotus.\n\nThe Empiric school said that it was necessary to understand the \"evident causes\" of disease, but considered the inquiry after the \"hidden causes\" and \"natural actions\" to be fruitless, because Nature is incomprehensible. That these things cannot be understood appears from the controversies among philosophers and physicians, and in the way in which the methods of practice differed from place to place, one method being used in Rome, another in Egypt, and another in Gaul. Often too, the causes are evident; as in a wound, and if the evident cause does not suggest a method of curing, then much less so other obscure methods. This being the case, it is much better to seek relief from things certain and tried; that is, from remedies as learned from experience.\n\nThey said that medicine, in its infancy, was deduced from experiments; for the sick, in a time when there were no physicians, had either taken food in the first days of their illness, or had abstained, and that the illness was more quickly alleviated in one group than the other. This and other instances occurring daily were observed by people diligent enough to realize which method was best to cure particular conditions, and hence the art of medicine arose. Medicine was not invented in consequence of reasoning, but that theory was sought after the discovery of medicine.\n\nThey asked, too, whether reason prescribed the same as experience, or something different: if the same, then it is not necessary; if different, then mischievous. Initially there was a necessity to examine remedies with the greatest accuracy, but now they are sufficiently ascertained; there are no new diseases, and hence no need for any novel methods of healing. If a patient had an unknown type of illness, the physician would not recourse to obscure knowledge, but would see what type of illness was most nearly allied, and to make a trial of the medicines used to treat the allied condition.\n\nWhat matters is not what causes, but what cures the condition. It does not matter why a concoction works, only that it does work. Nor is it necessary to know how we breathe, but what relieves difficult breathing. Likewise we should not seek the cause of motion in the arteries, but what each kind of motion indicates. These things are known by experience and epilogistic reasoning. There is no value in dissecting dead bodies, since the state of the organs are very different in dead bodies compared to living ones.\n\nThey supported their opinions in favour of experience with the famous \"Tripod of Medicine\":\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6066671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6066671", "title": "Ensure", "text": "Ensure\n\nEnsure is the brand name of nutritional supplements and meal replacements manufactured by Abbott Laboratories. \n\nA 237-ml (8-fl oz) bottle of Ensure Original contains 220 calories, six grams of fat, 15 grams of sugar, and nine grams of protein. The top six ingredients are water, corn maltodextrin, sugar, milk protein concentrate, canola oil, and soy protein isolate.\n\nIn 1903, Harry C. Moores and Stanley M. Ross launched the \"Moores & Ross Milk Company\", which specialized in bottling milk for home delivery for the first few years. By 1964, however, the company merged with Abbott Laboratories. A drink called Ensure was first marketed by Ross Laboratories in 1973.\n\nIn the 1990s, Ensure and other nutritional drink products like Mead Johnson's Sustacal and Nestlé's Boost and Resource brands were fiercely competing to capture market share among healthy adults. In 1996, Ensure had sales of about $300 million and accounted for 80% of protein supplement sales; Abbott spent $45.4 million to advertise Ensure during the first nine months of 1996, around 70% more than it spent during the same period of 1995.\n\nIn 1995, the Center for Science in the Public Interest said that ads for Ensure were \"the most misleading food ad\" of that year. In 1997, Abbott settled charges from the Federal Trade Commission that it was falsely marketing Ensure as having a similar amount of vitamins as multivitamin supplements, as being recommended by doctors more than any other nutritional supplement, and as being recommended by doctors as a way to stay healthy and active for people who were otherwise healthy.\n\nWhen Abbott split off its pharmaceuticals division, Abbvie, in 2013, the Ensure product line remained with Abbott with the other nutritional products. \n\nAs of 2016, variants of Ensure included:\n\n\nAs of 2016, Ensure Complete had been discontinued.\n\nEnsure has been used in the force feeding of hunger-striking prisoners at the United States' Guantanamo Bay detention camps.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1376899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1376899", "title": "Euthymia (philosophy)", "text": "Euthymia (philosophy)\n\nEuthymia (, \"gladness, good mood, serenity\", literally \"good thumos\") is a term used by Democritus to refer to one of the root aspects of human life's goal.\n\nDiogenes Laërtius records Democritus' position as \"The chief good he asserts to be cheerfulness (euthymia); which, however, he does not consider the same as pleasure; as some people, who have misunderstood him, have fancied that he meant; but he understands by cheerfulness, a condition according to which the soul lives calmly and steadily, being disturbed by no fear, or superstition, or other passion.\"\n\nIn Seneca’s essay on tranquility, he uses the Greek word \"euthymia\", which he defines as “believing in yourself and trusting that you are on the right path, and not being in doubt by following the myriad footpaths of those wandering in every direction.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5620134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5620134", "title": "Extrapyramidal symptoms", "text": "Extrapyramidal symptoms\n\nExtrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), also known as extrapyramidal side effects (EPSE), are drug-induced movement disorders that include acute and tardive symptoms. These symptoms include dystonia (continuous spasms and muscle contractions), akathisia (motor restlessness), parkinsonism (characteristic symptoms such as rigidity), bradykinesia (slowness of movement), tremor, and tardive dyskinesia (irregular, jerky movements). Antipsychotics are often discontinued due to inefficacy and intolerable side effects such as extrapyramidal symptoms.\n\nSince it is difficult to measure extrapyramidal symptoms, rating scales are commonly used to assess the severity of movement disorders. The Simpson-Angus Scale (SAS), Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale (BARS), Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS), and Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale (ESRS) are rating scales frequently used for such assessment and are not weighted for diagnostic purposes; these scales can help physicians weigh the benefit/expected benefit of a medication against the degree of distress which the side effects are causing the patient, aiding in the decision to maintain, reduce, or discontinue the causative medication/s.\n\nThe extrapyramidal system regulates posture and skeletal muscle tone. Extrapyramidal symptoms (also called extrapyramidal side effects) get their name because they are symptoms of disorders in this system.\n\nExtrapyramidal symptoms are most commonly caused by typical antipsychotic drugs that antagonize dopamine D2 receptors. The most common typical antipsychotics associated with EPS are haloperidol and fluphenazine. Atypical antipsychotics have lower D2 receptor affinity or higher serotonin 5-HT2A receptor affinity which lead to lower rates of EPS. However, some research has shown that atypical antipsychotics are just as likely as conventional antipsychotics to cause EPS, when used at high doses.\n\nOther anti-dopaminergic drugs, like the antiemetic metoclopramide, can also result in extrapyramidal side effects. Short and long-term use of antidepressants such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI), serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRI), and norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitors (NDRI) have also resulted in EPS. Specifically, duloxetine, sertraline, escitalopram, fluoxetine, and bupropion have been linked to the induction of EPS. Other causes of extrapyramidal symptoms can include brain damage and meningitis.\n\n\nAnticholinergic drugs are used to control neuroleptic-induced EPS, although akathisia may require beta blockers or even benzodiazepines. If the EPS are induced by an antipsychotic, EPS may be reduced by dose titration or by switching to an atypical antipsychotic, such as aripiprazole, ziprasidone, quetiapine, olanzapine, risperidone, or clozapine. These medications possess an additional mode of action that is believed to negate their effect on the nigrostriatal pathway, which means they are associated with fewer extrapyramidal side-effects than \"conventional\" antipsychotics (chlorpromazine, haloperidol, etc.), although some research has shown that second generation neuroleptics cause EPS at the same rate as the first generation drugs.\n\nCommonly used medications for EPS are anticholinergic agents such as benztropine (Cogentin), diphenhydramine (Benadryl), and trihexyphenidyl (Artane). Another common course of treatment includes dopamine agonist agents such as pramipexole. These medications reverse the symptoms of extrapyramidal side effects caused by antipsychotics or other drugs that either directly or indirectly inhibit dopaminergic neurotransmission.\n\nStudies are yet to be undertaken on the optimum dosage of the causative drugs to reduce their side effects (extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS)).\n\n"}
{"id": "20949205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20949205", "title": "Gordon Chavunduka", "text": "Gordon Chavunduka\n\nGordon Lloyd Chavunduka (c.16 August 1931 – 11 January 2013) was a Zimbabwean sociologist and traditional healer. \n\nHe served as a member of Abel Muzorewa's delegation to the 1979 Lancaster House Conference that led to Zimbabwe's independence. He has published several books on traditional medicine.\n\nProf. Chavunduka was Vice Chancellor of the University of Zimbabwe from 1992 to 1996. After his retirement from the university, he served as president of the Zimbabwe National Traditional Healers Association. He was a great influence to Christopher Chetsanga.\n\nChavunduka died on 11 January 2013 at the age of 82 in Harare, after a short illness.\n"}
{"id": "19049041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19049041", "title": "Health marketing", "text": "Health marketing\n\nHealth marketing is a new, customer-centered, approach to public health promotion that applies traditional marketing principles and theories alongside science-based strategies to protect and promote the health of diverse populations.It involves creating, communicating, and delivering messages for the public on prevention, health promotion and health protection. Health marketing is one of the ways advancements in medicine and in health-protecting services, such as insurance, are made widely known.\nA good example is the current drive in Kenya to promote circumcision among communities that do not customarily circumcise. Medical researchers have recently documented that circumcision is 65% effective in preventing HIV infection among men.\n\nThe marketing strategy would follow the traditional 4 \"P's\" of marketing namely:\n\n\n\"Health marketing\" is a term rarely used in public health and related disciplines. \"Social marketing\" or \"integrated marketing communication\" are more commonly used in public health and other disciplines to refer to marketing-based planning frameworks for public health communication.\n\nHealth marketing or Medical Marketing is a specialized branch of marketing. Medical marketing was born from the necessity for private health professionals to attract new patients, the characteristics of the health market makes it a unique kind of marketing. Medical marketing is usually a business to consumer (B2C) service. Doctors using this type of marketing usually offer beauty related services, such as aesthetic medicine, plastic surgery, dental surgery or dermatology. \n\nIn many countries it is forbidden to pay for advertising of medical procedures, specially in aesthetics and plastic surgery. Showing “before and after” pictures or making references to someone’s body type can be seen as harmful for society.\n\nThe solution for a health care professional or a medical marketing agency is Instagram marketing since nowadays it remains unregulated, being the fastest growing social media in the planet gives doctors an opportunity to acquire new patients through Instagram Marketing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25100620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25100620", "title": "Healthcare Quality Improvement Partnership", "text": "Healthcare Quality Improvement Partnership\n\nThe Healthcare Quality Improvement Partnership (HQIP) was established in April 2008 to promote quality in UK health services, by increasing the impact that clinical audit has on healthcare quality in England and Wales. It is led by a consortium of the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges, Royal College of Nursing and National Voices.\n\nThe Partnership holds the contract to manage the National Clinical Audit and Patient Outcomes Programme (NCAPOP). This consists of more than 25 clinical audits that cover a range of medical, surgical and mental health conditions. Their purpose is to engage clinicians across England and Wales in systematic evaluation of their clinical practice against standards, and to encourage improvement in the quality of care. This programme is gradually being extended to other areas of healthcare, working with clinical and professional advisory groups.\n\nHQIP also runs the National Clinical Audit Forum (NCAF) for online communication among those interested in clinical audit, cooperates with regulatory bodies, issues guidance on good clinical audit practice and hosts events that bring national and local clinical audit practitioners together. Additionally, the Partnership works closely with the National Clinical Audit Advisory Group (NCAAG), which advises the Department of Health on clinical audit and is central to commissioning new national clinical audits.\n\nIn November 2012 the HQIP won contracts from the Department of Health to manage the National Clinical Audit and Patient Outcomes Programme (NCAPOP) and the Clinical Outcome Review Programme (CORP). It is centrally involved in the publication of consultant level quality and mortality data.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16541246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16541246", "title": "Healthcare in Iraq", "text": "Healthcare in Iraq\n\nIraq had developed a centralized free healthcare system in the 1970s using a hospital based, capital-intensive model of curative care. The country depended on large-scale imports of medicines, medical equipment and even nurses, paid for with oil export income, according to a “Watching Brief” report issued jointly by the United Nations Children’s Fund and the World Health Organization in July 2003.\nUnlike other poorer countries, which focused on mass health care using primary care practitioners, Iraq developed a Westernized system of sophisticated hospitals with advanced medical procedures, provided by specialist physicians. The UNICEF/WHO report noted that prior to 1990, 97 percent of the urban dwellers and 71 percent of the rural population had access to free primary health care; just 2 percent of hospital beds were privately managed.\n\nDuring its last decade, the regime of Saddam Hussein cut health funding by 90 percent, contributing to a substantial deterioration in health care. During that period, maternal mortality increased nearly threefold, and the salaries of medical personnel decreased drastically. Medical facilities, which in 1980 were among the best in the Middle East, deteriorated. Conditions were especially serious in the south, where malnutrition and water-borne diseases became common in the 1990s. In 2005 the incidence of typhoid, cholera, malaria, and tuberculosis was higher in Iraq than in comparable countries. The conflict of 2003 destroyed an estimated 12 percent of hospitals and Iraq’s two main public health laboratories. In 2004 some improvements occurred. Using substantial international funds, some 240 hospitals and 1,200 primary health centers were operating, shortages of some medical materials had been alleviated, the training of medical personnel had begun, and the inoculation of children was widespread. However, sanitary conditions in hospitals remained unsatisfactory, trained personnel and medications were in short supply, and health care remained largely unavailable in regions where violent insurgency continued. In 2005 there were 15 hospital beds, 6.3 doctors, and 11 nurses per 10,000 population. Plans called for US$1.5 billion of the national budget to be spent on health care in 2006.\n\nThe cost of admission to a public hospital was set at 500 dinars in the 1980s, and has not been increased since. This was supposed to cover the cost of all treatment. In February 2016 all public hospitals in Iraq began to charge patients for individual services. The healthcare budget for 2016 has been cut by about 25%.\n\nMore than 2000 doctors were killed between 2003 and 2014. in 2016 there were fewer than thirty cardiac surgeons left in the country.\n\nIraqi doctors report that they have to pretend to resuscitate patients when this is futile because relatives, with militia connections, sometimes demand blood money if they are dissatisfied with the doctor’s efforts. In 2010 the Council of Representatives of Iraq increased sentences for anyone convicted of threatening or attacking a doctor.\n\n"}
{"id": "37568071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37568071", "title": "Hypnozygote", "text": "Hypnozygote\n\nA hypnozygote is a resting cyst resulting from sexual fusion; it is commonly thick-walled. A synonym of zygotic cyst.\n"}
{"id": "20519525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20519525", "title": "Inferior alveolar nerve anaesthesia", "text": "Inferior alveolar nerve anaesthesia\n\nInferior alveolar nerve block (abbreviated to IANB, and also termed inferior alveolar nerve anesthesia or inferior dental block) is a nerve block technique which induces anesthesia (numbness) in the areas of the mouth and face innervated by one of the inferior alveolar nerves which are paired on the left and right side. These areas are the skin and mucous membranes of the lower lip, the skin of the chin, the lower teeth and the labial gingiva of the anterior teeth, all unilaterally to the midline of the side on which the block is administered. However, depending on technique, the long buccal nerve may not be anesthetized by an IANB and therefore an area of buccal gingiva adjacent to the lower posterior teeth will retain normal sensation unless that nerve is anesthetized separately, via a (long) buccal nerve block. The inferior alveolar nerve is a branch of the mandibular nerve, the third division of the trigeminal nerve. This procedure attempts to anaesthetise the inferior alveolar nerve prior to it entering the mandibular foramen on the medial surface of the mandibular ramus.\n\nAdministration of anesthesia near the mandibular foramen causes blockage of the inferior alveolar nerve and the nearby lingual nerve by diffusion (includes supplying the tongue). This causes patients to lose sensation in:\nAnother symptom is harmless numbness and tingling of the body of the tongue and floor of the mouth, which indicates that the lingual nerve, a branch of the mandibular nerve, is anesthetized. Another symptom that can occur is “lingual shock” as the needle passes by the lingual nerve during administration. The patient may make an involuntary movement, varying from a slight opening of the eyes to jumping in the chair. This symptom is only momentary, and anesthesia will quickly occur.\n\nThere are a number of techniques that are commonly used to achieve inferior alveolar nerve anesthesia. The most commonly used techniques involve an attempted block of an entire portion of the inferior alveolar nerve:\n\n"}
{"id": "57747411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57747411", "title": "Insanity in Ancient and Modern Life", "text": "Insanity in Ancient and Modern Life\n\nInsanity in Ancient and Modern Life, with chapters on its prevention is a medical book written by the English physicist and practical worker in medicinal psychology Daniel Hack Tuke (1827-1895) in 1878. Tuke dedicated much of his time encouraging humanitarian treatment for the mental ill. His knowledge is summarized and clarified in many of his medical books, in which he often takes controversial and novel standpoints. The presented book discusses the causes of mental disorders in relation to the maturation of society and considers factors which can positively contribute to the prevention of psychiatric diseases.\n\nBeing part of the movement dynamic psychotherapy in the later 19th century, Tuke is acknowledged to be one of the earliest authors to coin the term \"Psychotherapeutics\". He combines psychological insights similar to Freud's psychodynamic therapy with a medical and somatic approach that Tuke adopted from his studies of medicine. Living in a time in which mental illness is no longer regarded as the consequence of having committed a religious sin, a more biological basis and environmental foundation of psychiatric diseases was established. An especially pronounced insight of this viewpoint is that mental illness is caused by genetical factors as well as influenced by nurture and is therefore treatable and may be even preventable.\n\nIn the 17th and 18th centuries there was a gradually increasing focus on the brain itself and how brain injury affects behavioral displays like in the famous case of Phineas Gage. Additionally, a growing interest in reflexes facilitated the viewpoint that behavior is not necessarily self-generated but can be also environmentally caused. However, despite the huge medicinal and factual progress in the study of the brain and its influence on behavior, the new insights did not yet contribute to an improved treatment of psychiatric diseases and brain injuries. Although there was an increasing interest in mental processes and behavior, until the middle of the 19th century psychology as a scientific study and subject itself was largely disregarded and rather considered to be a branch of philosophy.\n\nIrrevocably, this mindset turned enormously due to five scientific discoveries that enabled the development of modern neurophysiology and are still relevant for today's psychology. They were the discovery of the 1) cerebrospinal axis, 2) the growing impact of the reflex and its relation to mental functioning in studies by Marshall Hall (1790-1875), 3) the localization of brain functions such as the center of speech production (Broca's Area), 4) the discovery of the nerve cell by Camillo Golgi (1843-1926) and lastly, the 5) disentangling of the communication between neurons by Ramón y Cajal (1852-1934). All these findings consider a biological and physical basis by which behavior can be explained. This is also an opinion held by Tuke himself, as he not only waited for a proof of a physical basis for normal behavior but also as an explanation for what he terms \"insanity\".\n\nAlthough psychology as an independent scientific study was largely discredited by well-known scientists and philosophers such as Immanuel Kant (1724-1804), scientists such as Johann Friedrich Herbart (1776–1841), took the issue as a reason to invent a mathematical basis for scientific psychology. Despite his unsuccessful attempts to quantify behavior, his efforts were taken up by the scientists Ernst Heinrich Weber (1795–18 78) and Gustav Theodor Fechner (1801–1887), aiming to measure the mathematical relationships between the physical magnitudes of external stimuli and the psychological intensities of the resulting sensations. Their vast and unique insights are later coined by the term \"Psychophysics\". Meanwhile, the breakthroughs in neuronal structure and physiology (the five most important listed above), evidenced a physical and biological nature of human functioning that can serve as the basis for scientific experiments in studying behavior. One of the principal founders of experimental physiology, Hermann Helmholtz (1821–1894), conducted experimental studies of a wide range of topics that would later be of huge interest to psychologists. The speed of neural transmission, the physical natures of sound and color and our perception of them count as some of the most important insights. Together with the German physiologists, psychologists and philosopher Wilhelm Wundt (1832-1920) he addressed more complicated psychological questions than had not been investigated experimentally in the past. Of particular interest for both was the nature of apperception, which is defined as the point at which a perception occupies the central focus of conscious awareness. To conduct all the studies, in 1879, Wundt founded the first laboratory worldwide that was specifically dedicated to original research in experimental psychology. Tuke himself as a physicist was largely interested in the practical and experimental part of psychology and psychiatry but contributed to the development of experimental psychology mainly by providing theories and hypothesis about biological and environmental factors that influence the mind and also cause mental illnesses. His research and findings are majorly based on observational studies and analysis of existing literature and statistics.\n\nThe presented book discusses the causes of mental disorders in relation to the maturation of society and considers factors which can positively contribute to the prevention of psychiatric diseases. By considering the ecological and social conditions of people, starting in prehistoric times until the late nineteen hundreds, it is analyzed in twelve chapters how these factors and a steady growth in complexity of civilizations contribute to an alleged increase in prevalence of mental illnesses. He claims, that emotional and cognitive conflict is a natural human response to life's injuries, which he defines as the rapidly changing lifestyle during the British Industrial revolution from the Mid-18th century to early 19th century and the rising gap between the rich and the poor. Consequently, the majority of insane people would always be found in a civilized community.\n\nIn the first chapter, Tuke gives a broad overview about the diverse set of factors that he considers to be of vital importance when answering what causes and influences the development of insanity. By doing this, he acknowledges biological, societal, environmental, cultural, as well as religious and political factors. He claims, that all these factors accumulate and increase in intensity when societies became more complex and civilized.\n\nThroughout history, intoxication could be found in almost any community, especially the consume of alcohol but also of other stimulants. The intake of mind- and mood-altering drugs is distributed in time and space. Tuke claims, that intoxication leads to the exhaustion of the nervous system and inhibits it to function properly. This degeneration would accumulate in succeeding generations, especially when considering the increasing importance alcohol gains with the maturation of society.\n\nWith a similar mechanism he describes that malnutrition contributes to an increased chance to develop insanity, which in his opinion could be evidenced by every underfed population. This would also apply to the British society at the time. Until the late 19th century, chronic hunger and malnutrition were the norm for the majority of the population of the world, including Britain. The life expectancy in Britain suffered immensely, in large part due to malnutrition. A usual worker of a factory usually did not exceed the age of 40. Partly the shortage of food can be explained by the fact that food supply in Great Britain was adversely affected by the Corn Laws (1815-1846). The Corn Laws, which imposed tariffs on imported grain, were enacted to keep prices high in order to benefit domestic producers. As additionally population grew exponentially in these years in urban areas, among others noticed by Thomas Maltus, not enough food could be provided and money was scarce among the lower ranks of society. All these factors increased poverty and malnutrition and may explain the high prevalence of insane people among the lower working classes of British Society. Not surprisingly, Tuke names pauperism too be one of the major influential factors causing insanity.\n\nTuke was among the first scientists to recognize that emotional problems and general life satisfaction highly influence the mental health of a person, disregarding his societal rank. During the Industrial Revolution steadily rising standards caused changes in the mindset of society. An increased incidence of emotional conflict was the result of the competitive spirit of the modern civilization. When people compared their living standards, they often became dissatisfied with their own and luxury goods grew in importance. Tuke explains, that this kind of depression interferes with normal cognitive functioning and additionally, often leads to the consume of drugs and thus indirectly precipitates insanity.\n\nAnother consequence of the industrial revolution in the 18th century was the increased number of hours per day that people belonging to the working class had to absolve with only little payment. As increasingly more factories were build, more workers were needed in total and a worker had to work on average more under terrible working conditions. Oftentimes, even children were used as workers in the factory to ensure the survival of the family. On average, children were paid less than 10 Cent for a fourteen-hours shift. However, also members from upper classes were confronted with an increased amount of work to maintain their business. According to Tuke, both, the mental and the physical exhaustion like business or monetary worries, lead to emotional stress which has similar effects on mental health as dissatisfaction with the own living circumstances.\n\nIntellectual strain in form of excesses of educational work, is also a potent cause Tuke introduces in his book. Similar to the physical overwork mentioned above, Tuke expects similar consequences for mental exhaustion. As with the industrial society also the external societal pressure rises, so did the urge for self-perfection and societal improvement. The pressure and overthinking in turn, is thought to cause sleeplessness which interferes with the proper formation of memories. Contrastingly, he underlines that the contrary, namely mental underload is also a dangerous factor considering the development of mental illnesses. He states that the upper classes of society are heading towards a style of living in which intellect is of minor importance as compared to luxuries and reputation. Less cognitive engagement would cause cognitive abilities to decline in the long-term and would also elevate mental tension.\n\nPolitical excitement is termed as one of the major influential factors that positively contribute to insanity. As society increases in size, opinions become more diversified. The traditionally and religiously shaped views become challenged, which according to Tuke interferes with the implementation of an ideal society. This would open room for insanity to arise and spread. Additionally, political and religious excitement is hypothesized to generally lead to emotional stress and upheaval which would disturb the mental equilibrium that is required in order to ensure mental health.\n\nAs compared to a completely uncivilized tribe, Tuke states that more mature communities are increasingly exposed to unfavorable psychological influences. Excessive as well as deprived education, the increasing acceptance of drug consume, and the competitive spirit rising in the course of history are claimed to be among the major causes of insanity. He emphasizes that this is not the result of civilization itself, but that humans have never realized the ideal of a society and are probably never able to fully apply it. Living in a civil society in his view means to reclaim from barbarism, intemperance, dissipation and pauperism and to support and help each other. According to Tuke, the prevalence of insanity in prehistoric times was the lowest because people were living in uncultivated tribes and were not interested in modern education. Moreover, although intoxication is reported in early times, the mind-altering drugs that Native tribes used or still use, are mostly used for rituals and only rarely in private. Hereby, Tuke refers to old Indian tribes that use Marihuana in some of their ceremonies. Additionally, even the so-called savages did not behave intemperate even when intoxicated. Moreover, according to Tuke, prehistoric tribes did not suffer from religious and political perplexities nor commercial speculation. People may believe in evil spirits or ghosts but this mental imbalance is counteracted by the belief in charms. All in all, Tuke explains that savages in the past and present live an uncultivated but satisfied life with no pursue after perfection and luxury. In his view, this renders them almost invulnerable to mental disease. Nevertheless, he stresses throughout his book that society itself is something every human should pursue and a savage life also has his own drawbacks, but insanity not being among them.\n\nAccording to Tuke, as time passes, intoxication became increasingly important. He refers to a biblical story, in which Noah planted a vineyard together with Satan. The bible also evidences that intemperate behavior while intoxicated became more prevalent. Yet, for example alcohol was not yet the scourge of society which it is in his opinion among some nations today. In generally, Jews are even considered to be sober and Egypts to have only rare experiences with alcohol in the public and private domain.\n\nJews as well as Egypts are thought to live a simple but not savage life in accordance with nature and moral standards. As their lives are centered around food, they did not have experience scarcity. Tuke, explains that their agricultural lifestyle, prevented malnutrition and hunger even among the poor. As also the other risk factors do not apply to this period of time, Tuke explains this to be the reason for the himself found low prevalence of insane people at the time.\n\nIn this chapter, he underlines with the statistics the immense increase of insanity in the last 20 years. He claims that 20 years ago, only one out of 577 was diagnosed to be insane, whereas this raised to 1 in 370. He is convinced, that alone these today's statistics yield enough ground to conclude that insanity is determined by the modern civilized society of industrialized Britain. Even totally diverse states of a nation lead to the same determination. He declares that he is aware, that this increasing number may be partially explained by more diagnoses in general as well as a rising awareness for mental illnesses. Nevertheless, he asserts that the statistics prove that this cannot solely be explained by these two factors and that when looking at history, clear signs exist that point towards factors that evolved with the maturation of society. However, he also observes a trend within the population at his time, in which it becomes obvious that most insane people are to be found in the pauper part of society. He attributes this to the absence of rational employment that seems to be present in the lower ranks of the community. Pauper people in his eyes, are victims of debasing habits, indulgence in vices, less literary and scientific pursuits and mental stagnation. The mentality of the lower classes seems to be coined by recklessness, drunkenness, poverty and misery which are all risk factors in developing mental illness. He terms this \"uncivilized behavio[u]r in a civilized society\". As moral and physical conditions are generally bad among the poor, the clear trend in prevalence seems obvious to him. Moreover, since the pauper population misses education and mental work, they often seek other ways for excitement mostly in a political manner. Their intense emotional disturbance, alternating between intense joy and disappointment, in combination with malnutrition and manifold miseries are clear factors that influence the mental health of a worker. He is aware that the dissatisfaction of life caused by the bad living and working conditions prove additionally counteractive to mental health and facilitate the intake of stimulants and the development of intemperate habits which only further exacerbate their misery. As also children and women are employed in the factories, no time can be provided to adequately teach and raise the children to ensure a healthy cerebral development to prevent insanity in following generations.\n\nHe concludes that among the working class almost every influential factor that he mentions in the first chapter on the causes of insanity, especially apply to the working class. Member of this societal class are generally poor, underfed, oftentimes intoxicated, dissatisfied and disappointed and generally neither in physical nor in mental balance. He infers that by the maturation of society the gap enlarges and thus simultaneously gives rise to even more insanity.\n\nAlthough the prevalence of insanity seems to be rather absent in the upper classes of society, the statistics also identified a few cases of insanity among the rich. Tuke explains this by some of the prior mentioned factors that also apply to this rank of society. Admittedly, the prosperous people do not face physical overwork in the factories, but oftentimes severe mental work. He argues that the mental exhaustion caused by the maintenance of the business in many cases leads to mental fatigue and sleeplessness, which both interfere with proper memory formation. Business worry and money troubles lead to anxiety which disturbs the emotional and cognitive balance and thus concurs to the development of insanity. Additionally, the upper especially intellectual classes are confronted with immense societal pressure to perform at their best, further increasing anxiety. On the other hand, other parts of the higher classes are undereducated and their daily livings circle around the possession of luxury goods and to fulfil beauty standards. Another immensely critical factors lies in the enormous use of stimulants, especially alcohol, which is a daily practice in upper sections of the population. Alcohol is part of each meal and drunken because of boredom and reputation. This mindset is toxic in Tuke's eyes and more importantly degenerates cerebral structures.\n\nAlthough Tuke is already aware that insanity is also partially favored by a specific combination of genetic material and thus predetermined, in the last chapters he designates some characteristics and habits which can avoid insanity and terms this \"auto-prophylaxes\". He emphasizes that in general a mentally as well as physically balances life is of great importance to ensure mental health. This can reached by enough sleep, physical and mental exercise and a generally healthy lifestyle. He further stresses to distance oneself from any type of intoxication as it interferes with the regular cognitive functioning and also harms the cerebral cortex.\n\nNext to the general physical conditions, he also points to the importance of a morally acceptable way of living by avoiding political and religious fanaticism and mysticism, \"Mental safety will be greatly increased by pursuing that middle course between them with an honest appreciation of the laws of emotions\". He underlines the importance of cheerfulness and to decrease the importance of luxury goods and reputation to ensure the health of the nervous system. Children should be adequately thought and formed according to religious moral norms and provided with knowledge, to assure a healthy cerebral development. As society decreases social pressure and diminished the gap between the rich and the poor, there is hope for the future to prevent the unfavorable trend civilization is heading to.\n\nDespite his large contribution to today's knowledge about and theses on the sociocultural causes of mental illnesses, Tuke renders largely unknown after his death. This may be partially explained by the fact that he acknowledged himself only as a compiler of information rather than an innovator. However, he remains a major figure in British psychiatry in the late 19th century. During his lifetime he was a well-known scientist and psychiatrist whose work received much attention within the medical and psychiatric ranks. His contemporaries often regarded him as a \"scientific sponge\", gathering already existing knowledge about mental illnesses and aligning the findings with his social and societal observations. He was widely appreciated by taking controversial standpoints, even if they do not entirely match current scientific opinions and literature. During his visits of several asylums in 1853, he even raised international attention for his scientific and statistic work about the prevalence of mental disorders and the causes. As a consequence of his rich experiences abroad, Tuke was soon seen as an international expert on mental illness and was lecturing at York Medical School. 5 years later, in collaboration with John Charles Bucknill, he published the \"Manual of Psychological Medicine\" which served as a standard work for lunacy for years\".\" As the joint editor of the \"Journal of Mental Science starting in\" 1880\",\" he continues to be regarded as one of the most influential scientists from 19th century British psychiatry. Although he often focused on novel and rather uncommon phenomena, he was largely accepted and appreciated by leading British psychiatrists, neurologists and psychologists, including Jean-Marie Charcot, Hippolyte Bernheim and Victor Horsley with which he worked on the \"Dictionary of Psychological medicine\".\n\nHis widespread and even international recognition positively contributed the way with which his work was received. His books, including the Insanity in Ancient and Modern life, are often cited and referred to in scientific literature about sociocultural causes and influential factors contributing to insanity in the past and present. Additionally, he is often minorly mentioned in historical books about the emergence of psychology as a discipline. Tuke was among the first persons to recognize an increase in the prevalence of insanity by making use of statistics to identify possible causes, which he clarifies in great detail in \"Insanity in Ancient and Modern Life.\" As many of his other books, the book was used as a psychiatric workbook for classes on mental illness.\n\nTuke wrote many medical books, especially focusing on the topic of insanity and mental illnesses and its causes and resulting implications for treatment. During his time when he conducted a new course on psychological medicine at York Medical School, he also published several case studies and notes on psychopathological patients which he observed in striking detail. Together with Dr. John Bucknill, his medical colleague, he agreed upon writing the well-known \"Manual of Psychological Medicine\", in which he discusses the classification, causes and the different forms of insanity. In 1880, he became a joint editor of the Journal of Mental Sciences. Around the same time, he published one of his most influential books, \"Illustrations of the Influence of the Mind Upon the Body in Health and Disease\" (1872).\n\nThe book \"Insanity in Ancient and Modern Life\" (1878), followed by \"The History of the Insane in the British Isles\" (1882) count as some of his most influential works. In 1884, during his visit in America, he also collected material for his book \"The Insane in the United States and Canada\". In all this works he reflects on the culturally and societal conditions people find themselves in and relates this to causes and prevalence of insanity between different nations. Together with \"The Insanity in Ancient and Modern Life\", the medical book \"The Past and Present Provision for the Insane Poor in Yorkshire\" considers the differences in prevalence among upper and lower social classes.\n\nFinally, he became an editor of the \"Dictionary of Psychological Medicine\", being the most cherished psychiatric work of the 19th century. Among an international group consisting of 128 authors, Tuke analyses and discusses in 68 sections many of the complex social, cognitive and professional dimensions of nineteen century's psychiatry.\n"}
{"id": "34771242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34771242", "title": "Institute of Nuclear Medicine &amp; Allied Sciences", "text": "Institute of Nuclear Medicine &amp; Allied Sciences\n\nInstitute of Nuclear Medicine & Allied Sciences (INMAS) is a laboratory of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Located in New Delhi, it is involved in Nuclear medicine research and responding to nuclear accidents and explosions. The department of nuclear medicine under the institute offers a two-year diploma in radiation medicine since 1968, making it the first formal training program in nuclear medicine in the world.\n\nThe origin of the institute can be traced back to the establishment of a Radiation Cell in 1956 at Defence Science Laboratory, Delhi. The initial assignment was to undertake a study on the consequences of the use of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. The cell was later upgraded to Radiation Medicine Division in 1959 and to the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences in 1961.\n"}
{"id": "40406476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40406476", "title": "Jens Bang's House", "text": "Jens Bang's House\n\nJens Bang's House (; translated, \"Jens Bang's Stone House\") is a landmark in Aalborg, Denmark. Situated on Østerågade in Nytorv square, it was built in 1624 by Jens Bang in Dutch Renaissance style. Noted for its gables and sculpted auricular window décor, it is said to be the finest privately owned Renaissance building in the country. It also features gargoyles and a sculpture of Bang's face, tongue sticking out. The five-storey building has housed the city's oldest pharmacy for more than 300 years. It is privately owned.\n\nJens Bang, remembered as one of Denmark's richest citizens, was born in Horsens. The son of Sidsel Jørgensdatter by her second marriage to Oluf Bang, he was consequently the half-brother of Aalborg's mayor, Jørgen Olufsen, who had already built a mansion higher up the Østerå street. After arriving in Aalborg in 1600, Bang joined the city's merchant-trade guild \"Guds Legems Lav\". Five years later, he obtained the status of a licensed merchant. Over the next 20 years, he was so fortunate and successful in his business, that he became one of the country's leading traders and certainly the most prosperous merchant in Aalborg. Surprisingly, Bang never assumed any responsibilities in the city's administration, possibly because he was not keen to do so but more probably aggressive attitude prevented him from doing so. He was an unparalleled facilitator, disliked by his contemporaries to the point of being involved in physical fights. On the more positive side, in 1637, together with his wife, he founded an establishment with accommodation for 26 paupers. In 1623, Bang inherited \"Københavns gård\", a large old Aalborg property, on the corner of Østerå and Adelsgade. After demolishing most of the old buildings, he built an enormous residence, completing it the following year.\n\nThe house is said to be Denmark's finest independently owned Renaissance mansion, comparable only to Mattias Hansen's House on Amagertorv in Copenhagen. The latter has only three floors and two gables while Jens Bang's House has four main floors and three gables, also containing floorspace and rooms. The house is decorated with sculptured stonework of the same high quality as Christian IV's own buildings. No doubt as a result of Bang's excellent relationship with the king, he was able to call upon the finest designers and craftsmen of the times, possibly employing Hans van Steenwinckel the Younger as his architect. Jørgen Olufsen's House on the same street hardly bears comparison.\n\nThe house originally had five round-arched doorways, probably topped by some of the sculpted figures and gargoyles which now crown the windows. The ground floor was used for trading booths and warehousing. In addition to the residential rooms on the first floor, there were also warehouses in the building. Bang's own rooms on the first floor were lit by a row of enormous windows with sandstone frames, some single, some double without any regularity. Their round-arches are decorated with angels and gargoyles in the auricular Baroque style.\n\nThe protruding bay at the centre of the façade was certainly once the main entrance, located on the first floor with a flight of steps leading up from the street. With its intricately sculpted figures and decorations, the portal is a true masterpiece. It clearly displays the year 1623 but the plaque at the top, where the original owner once had his name, now bears the mirrored monograms of the pharmacist C.L. Rübner and his wife. The crest with the Christian VI's monogram, flanked by swans, must once have displayed that of Christian IV. On the third floor, which also contained living accommodation, the windows are smaller and more simply decorated. The fourth floor has double, round-arched window frames, topped by a cornice with ornamental strips and spires. In the centre, there is a large hatch, probably added later. Together with the loft, the floor was previously used as a warehouse. The three tall pointed gables are decorated with the finest Baroque ornaments of the period, reflecting the very best examples of Dutch design.\n\nThe half-timbered bay with its fine shingle spire and its figure of Fortuna dates from around 1700. There were a number of other alterations around 1712: in addition to modifications to the main entrance and adjacent windows, finely plastered Baroque ceilings were added to two of the first-floor rooms, probably at the initiative of Johannes-Friedenreich. For a time, the top of the south gable was replaced by a hip roof but was reconstructed in 1916 during comprehensive restoration work under Harald Lønborg-Jensen. A stairway tower was built at the back of the house in 1897 to replace an inside spiral staircase. Among the property's additional buildings on Adelgade and Cortesgyde, one of the rooms in the south wing has a Late Gothic vaulted ceiling which has survived from \"Københavns gård\".\n\nDuring the Thirty Years' War, the house was occupied by the Germans from 1627 to 1629 while Jens Bang fled to Marstrand awaiting their departure. Bang died in 1644 during the Torstenson War when Aalborg was once again occupied. This time the troops left his house in a sorry state. As Bang had no direct descendants, ownership of the house was divided between a number of inheritors until in 1671, the pharmacist Johannes Friederich bought the buildings and opened his \"Swaneapotek\" (Swan Pharmacy) there. The pharmacy has existed ever since and the building has been handed down from generation to generation, the Strøybergs inheriting it in 1829.\n\nThe building is owned by the fund \"Apoteker S.C. Strøybergs Fond til Bevarelse af Jens Bangs Stenhus\".\n\nThe \"Svaneapotek\" (Swan Pharmacy) collection is now housed in one of the upper rooms, as a small pharmacy museum known as Apotekersamlingen. In premises open to visitors, the shelves display fine old receptacles and equipment including a container used to mix 70 ingredients to make \"theriaken\" which was said to have been effective in strengthening the weak. Jars of herbs and medicines as well as tools for the production of pills can be seen, providing evidence of the pharmacy's history over the past 300 years. Initially the pharmacy was also a grocery shop, licensed to sell spirits, wine, chocolate and licorice, which was also used for medicinal purposes.\n\nApotekersamlingen is administered by The Historical Museum of Northern Jutland, but owned by the same fund that owns the building.\n"}
{"id": "41547065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41547065", "title": "Keep Our NHS Public", "text": "Keep Our NHS Public\n\nKeep Our NHS Public (KONP) is a campaigning organisation, with local groups across England, committed to reversing the ongoing privatisation of the NHS and its services.\n\nThe group was founded in 2005 by the NHS Consultants Association, the NHS Support Federation and Health Emergency. It was very active in the campaign against the Health and Social Care Act 2012.\n\nIt has local groups which are involved in campaigns against the closure or reorganisation of local hospitals, such as the Save Lewisham Hospital Campaign. It attracted support from many existing health related campaigns such as Save Finsbury Health Centre It has been very vocal in denouncing the use of private health providers to treat patients outside the health service.\n\nIn early 2013 the American and EU governments began negotiating an agreement on free-trade between nations known as the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP). KONP have since committed an ongoing effort to prevent the partnership and its provisions from leading to the increased marketisation of European healthcare systems, allowing the entrenching of privatised healthcare in the British NHS. KONP have established concerns with regards to the extent of deregulation on transnational companies, allowing them to sue national governments in certain situations.\n\nThe Organisation Listed Four key recommendations regarding the TTIP:\n\n"}
{"id": "4182312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4182312", "title": "Lac de Vouglans", "text": "Lac de Vouglans\n\nThe Lac de Vouglans is the reservoir of the hydro-electric power station at Vouglans on the River Ain in the département of Jura in the region of Franche-Comté in eastern France. The dam, the Barrage de Vouglans is at coordinates .\n\nThe lake lies on Jurassic rock crushed into north to south ridges by the Alpine orogeny. It is therefore long and narrow, though rather sinuous in plan. It is about 30 kilometres long though only 21 km in a straight line. It lies in the valley of the Ain, impounded by the dam at Cernon. The old village of Vouglans was displaced by its construction in 1968 by Électricité de France (EDF).\n\nSome buildings of the Carthusian monastery of Vaucluse were also moved to make way for the rising waters and to save them from demolition.\n\nThe lake is arranged for tourism with view-points scattered through the woods which cover the hillsides along its shores and places set up for bathing and boating.\n\nThe annual mean flow of water at the dam is 40.80 cubic metres per second.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31104317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31104317", "title": "Lakeridge Health", "text": "Lakeridge Health\n\nLakeridge Health is a health system and hospital network serving Durham Region, Ontario in the eastern part of the Greater Toronto Area. It operates four acute hospitals with emergency departments (Lakeridge Health Bowmanville, Lakeridge Health Oshawa, Lakeridge Health Port Perry, Lakeridge Health Ajax and Pickering), one specialty hospital with a regional mandate (Lakeridge Health Whitby) and a variety of offsite locations. Lakeridge Health is part of the Central East Local Health Integration Network (CE LHIN).\n\nAfter a recommendation from the Health Services Restructuring Commission in 1998, the Ontario government amalgamated four Durham area hospitals: Memorial Hospital Bowmanville, North Durham Health Services (consisting of Community Memorial Hospital Port Perry and Uxbridge Cottage Hospital), Oshawa General Hospital and Whitby General Hospital – to create what is now known as Lakeridge Health. In January 2004, the Uxbridge site became aligned with Markham Stouffville Hospital and left the Lakeridge grouping.\n\nWith the merger of Rouge Valley Health System and The Scarborough Hospital, management of the Rouge Valley Ajax and Pickering site was transferred to Lakeridge Health on December 1, 2016.\n\nThe Chief Executive Officer is Matthew Anderson.\n\nOn May 13, 2017, Lakeridge Health was attacked by the WannaCry ransomware attack among many other institutions around the globe. By afternoon, most areas were up and running again.\n\nOn April 26, 2018, Lakeridge Health launched an online platform MyChart for patients to manage their health information.\n\nLakeridge Health offers primary, secondary, tertiary and post-acute care in inpatient and ambulatory settings. Services differ at the acute hospital sites, from the predominantly General Practitioner (GP)-\nbased services at Lakeridge Health Port Perry to the very high acuity services provided at Lakeridge Health Oshawa by physician specialists and interprofessional teams.\n\nServices provided across Lakeridge Health are organized into eight clinical programs:\n\n"}
{"id": "40656378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40656378", "title": "Lightning injuries", "text": "Lightning injuries\n\nLightning injuries are injuries caused by lightning strikes.\n\nThey result from three factors: \nWhile sudden death is common because of the huge voltage of a lightning strike, survivors often fare better than victims of other electrical injuries caused by a more prolonged application of lesser voltage.\n\nThe treatment of lightning injuries is keraunomedicine.\n\nLightning can strike or injure humans in four different ways:\n\nIn a \"direct hit\", the electrical charge strikes the person first.\n\"Splash\" hits occur when lightning jumps to a person (lower resistance path) from a nearby object that has more resistance, striking the person on its way to the ground.\nIn \"ground\" strikes, the bolt lands near the person and is conducted by a connection to the ground (usually the feet), due to the voltage gradient in the earth. This can still cause substantial injury.\n\nCounterintuitively, lightning current flowing through the victim's body resistance may develop a high voltage sufficient to \"flash\" around the skin or clothing to the ground in a \"direct strike\", resulting in a surprisingly benign outcome.\n\nThe lightning often leaves skin burns in characteristic Lichtenberg figures, sometimes called \"lightning flowers\"; they may persist for hours or days, and are a useful indicator for medical examiners when trying to determine the cause of death. They are thought to be caused by the rupture of small capillaries under the skin, either from the lightning current or from the mechanical shock wave. The intense electric current can cause a loss of consciousness; it is also speculated that the EMP created by a nearby lightning strike can cause cardiac arrest.\n\nA bolt of lightning can reach temperatures approaching 28,000° Celsius (50,000° Fahrenheit) in a split second. This is about five times hotter than the surface of the sun. Spectacular and unconventional lightning damage can be caused by thermal effects of lightning. \"Hot lightning\" (high-current lightning) which lasts for more than a second can deposit immense energy, melting or carbonizing large objects. One such example is the destruction of the basement insulator of the high central mast of the Orlunda radio transmitter, which led to its collapse. The intense heat generated by a lightning strike can burn tissue, and cause lung damage, and the chest can be damaged by the mechanical force of rapidly expanding heated air.\n\nJust as heat can cause expanding air in the lungs, the explosive shock wave created by lightning (the cause of thunder) can cause concussive and auditory injury at extremely close range. Other physical injury can be caused by objects damaged or thrown by the lightning strike. For example, lightning striking a nearby tree may vaporize sap, and the steam explosion often causes bark and wood fragments to be explosively ejected.\n\nReported mortality rates range from 10–30 percent, depending on the source of data. Most people who are struck by lightning live to tell the story, but many suffer from long term injury or disability.\n\nThe most critical injuries are to the circulatory system, the lungs, and the central nervous system but injuries also occur to other body systems. Some victims suffer immediate cardiac arrest and will not survive without prompt emergency care. It is safe to administer care immediately, because the victim will not retain any electrical charge after the lightning has struck (of course, the rescuer could be struck by a separate bolt of lightning). Other victims may suffer myocardial infarction and various cardiac arrhythmias, most of which can be rapidly fatal as well. Loss of consciousness is very common immediately after a strike. Amnesia and confusion of varying duration often result as well.\n\nExperiments on sheep show that a lightning strike to the head of a victim enters through the eyes, ears, nose and mouth, converging at the brainstem, which controls breathing. Many unconscious victims, who appear lifeless, actually die of suffocation. Chances of survival may be increased if cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is started immediately, and continued without interruption until the brainstem recovers.\n\nA complete physical examination by paramedics or physicians may reveal ruptured eardrums. Ocular cataracts may later develop, sometimes more than a year after an otherwise uneventful recovery. Long-term injuries are usually neurological in nature, including memory deficit, sleep disturbance, chronic pain, and chronic dizziness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37215913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37215913", "title": "Marie Marguerite Bihéron", "text": "Marie Marguerite Bihéron\n\nMarie Marguerite Bihéron (17 November 1719 – 1795) (also known as Marie Catherine Bihéron) was a French anatomist, known for her medical illustrations and wax figure models.\n\nBihéron was the daughter of a French apothecary, born in 1719. She studied illustration at the Jardin du Roi and with Madeleine Basseporte, of whom little is known outside of her anatomical drawings, and the memoirs of contemporaries.\n\nTo procure bodies for her anatomical studies, Bihéron was forced to have them stolen from the military. Frustrated with their rapid putrefaction, and at the suggestion of Basseporte, Bihéron turned her skills towards anatomical wax modeling, becoming a leading and highly recognized practitioner of this art. The famous physician Villoisin and the scholar Jussieu were impressed, and both promoted her work. In 1759, Jean Morand invited her to present her work to the Academie Royale des Sciences. She was invited again in 1770, to demonstrate an innovative, very detailed and lifelike model of a pregnant woman, complete with moveable parts and fetuses. In 1771 she presented to the Academie Royale for the third time, this time presenting her models to the visiting crown prince of Sweden, Gustavus of Sweden.\n\nHer models achieved international renown, both because of their great anatomical accuracy and lifelikeness, and because she apparently had a method of making wax models that did not melt. Jakob Jonas Björnståhl wrote to Carl Linnaeus, that: \n\nBecause the Academie did not support women, Bihéron had to earn a living privately, by exhibiting and selling her models, as well as by teaching. She moved to England, because women were not permitted to teach anatomy in France. Among her students was John Hunter, a Scottish doctor who greatly advanced the field of surgery — Bihéron's anatomical lessons were critical to his study, and some of the illustrations in his book were likely Bihéron's. Diderot was also apparently one of her anatomy students.\n\nBihéron also earned money by selling her models. The King of Denmark was one customer, and Empress Catherine II of Russia another; the latter purchasing Bihéron's complete set of anatomical models. Exhibitions included a 1761 exhibition, advertised by her pamphlet \"Artificial Anatomy\", proposing to show the body in \"greatest precision\", including internal organs, which could be manipulated—Bihéron permitted viewing at her home on the Vieille Estrapade near the Rue des Poules, beginning on 13 May 1761, and continued for some time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4025427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4025427", "title": "Ministry of Health (Greece)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Greece)\n\nThe Ministry of Health (), is the government department responsible for managing Greece's health system. The current minister is Syriza MP Andreas Xanthos.The Alternate Minister of Health is Pavlos Polakis.\n\n"}
{"id": "53083358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53083358", "title": "Ministry of Health (Rhodesia)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Rhodesia)\n\nThe Ministry of Health was a government ministry of Rhodesia from the country's independence in 1965 to 1979, when the country transitioned from white minority rule to the multiracial democracy of Zimbabwe.\n"}
{"id": "959823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=959823", "title": "Mrs Dale's Diary", "text": "Mrs Dale's Diary\n\nMrs Dale's Diary was the first significant BBC radio serial drama. It was first broadcast on 5 January 1948 on the BBC Light Programme, which became Radio 2 in 1967; it ran until 25 April 1969. A new episode was broadcast each weekday afternoon, with a repeat the following morning. A few days after the final episode, a new serial drama, \"Waggoners' Walk\", took over the time slot.\n\nThe main scriptwriter for many years was Jonquil Antony, and her first collaborator (under a pseudonym)\nwas Ted Willis, later to originate equally well-known characters for \"Dixon of Dock Green\".\n\nThe lead character, Mrs Dale, was played by Ellis Powell until she was sacked in controversial circumstances in 1963 and replaced by Jessie Matthews. \n\nAn innovative characteristic of the programme was that a brief introductory narrative in each episode was spoken by Mrs Dale as if she were writing her diary.\n\nThe serial centred on Mrs Mary Dale, a doctor's wife, husband Jim, and the comings and goings of a middle class society. The Dales lived at Virginia Lodge in the fictional London Metro-land-style suburb of Parkwood Hill. They had moved there from the real area of Kenton, which straddles the border between the London boroughs of Brent and Harrow. Later in the series, to modernise the programme and its setting, the producers relocated the family in the fictional new town of Exton New Town.\n\nMrs Dale's mother was Mrs Freeman, whom Jim always called, rather gravely, \"mother-in-law\". The family had one daughter, Gwen, and a son, Bob. Bob, who worked in the motor trade, was married to Jenny; they had twins. Gwen was widowed after her husband David was killed in a water-skiing accident in the Bahamas where he was holidaying with his rich mistress. Mary Dale's sister Sally (which she always pronounced \"Selly\") lived in Chelsea and moved in exotic circles. The Dales and their friends (and Captain, Mrs Freeman's cat, apparently named after her late husband's rank when he fell in the First World War) got along in almost perfect harmony. It was all respectable, comfortable and middle-class.\n\nThe programme is thought to be the first British mainstream drama which depicted a character known to be homosexual sympathetically in a leading part – Sally's husband. It was a brave move to feature a gay man, especially when homosexuality was still illegal in the United Kingdom. Clearly the programme's makers considered the time was right for the subject to be featured. Richard Fulton, however, was an odd character to use, in several ways. Not least is that (though apparently based on the homosexual writer Patrick White) Richard's history in the serial was heterosexual. He was in fact a character who had developed a lot, having been presented in the early days as a monster of petulance.\n\nIn February 1962, the serial was renamed The Dales. The linking narratives by Mrs Dale were dropped. The reason was that the BBC was conscious that the series was considered by the media to be twee and hopelessly old fashioned. The changes included a new theme tune composed by Ron Grainer, composer of the futuristic theme tune for \"Doctor Who\". \"Dance in the Twilight\" from Eric Coates' \"Springtime Suite\" also served as a signature tune for a time.\n\nIn 1975 Matthews' biographer, Michael Thornton, wrote: On 19 February 1963, a plump and embittered fifty-six-year-old character actress called Ellis Powell walked out of Broadcasting House for the last time. She was not a star. In fact she had earned less than £30 a week. But her voice was as well known in Britain as that of Queen Elizabeth II, for it was heard twice a day by seven million devoted listeners. Miss Powell was Britain's most sacrosanct fictional paragon, Mrs. Dale, in the radio serial Mrs. Dale's Diary. And now, after fifteen years in the role she had created, the BBC had summarily fired her partly because of her drinking habits, and partly because it was felt that the role, and also the entire programme, was in need of a facelift. Three months later, at the age of fifty-seven, she died. Her friends believed she never recovered from the shock and distress of her summary dismissal by the BBC. In the last weeks of her life she worked as a demonstrator at the Ideal Home Exhibition and as a cleaner in an hotel.\n\nIn its last years, \"The Dales\" became more sensational. Mrs Dale became a councillor, a position she had to relinquish when she caused a man's death by careless driving. A heart attack forced Dr Dale to retire from practice. Perhaps the most famous storyline was Jenny getting measles; listeners wrote in thousands complaining that she had already had measles in 1949.\n\nWhen it became \"The Dales\", the show did try to copy \"The Archers\", which was originally a medium to disseminate information to the agricultural community, and to give an insight into rural affairs to the public. Thus medical stories became the order in \"The Dales\". In this manner, \"The Dales\" became in the mid-1960s much like the BBC One soap opera \"Doctors\", the plots revolving around medical conditions and problems. When the series ran a story about the importance of women having regular cervical smear tests and checking their breasts for lumps, the junior health minister praised the programme, saying it had encouraged thousands of women to see their doctor.\n\nThe serial ran for 5,531 episodes, culminating with the engagement of Mrs Dale's daughter Gwen to a famous TV professor on 25 April 1969. On news of its demise, Liberal MP Peter Bessell attempted to introduce a reprieve for the series in Parliament. The BBC Sound Archive holds only five complete episodes of \"Mrs Dale's Diary\", and seven complete episodes of \"The Dales\".\n\nOver the years it ran there were a number of books written around the characters, several authored in whole or part by Jonquil Antony, the most important scriptwriter at the beginning and for many years. In 1970, the year after the programme finished, she took back her former characters after a fashion, publishing \"Dear Dr Dale\", a novel set after the end of the serial.\n\nIn the same year Charles Simon, who had played Dr Dale in the Jessie Matthews years, did his own continuation of the story, going on tour in \"At Home With The Dales\". This show has its place in theatre history as the first professional venture of Cameron Mackintosh, later renowned for large-scale musicals. The Dales play was written by Charles Henry, who was soon discovered to be the versatile and experienced Charles Simon. Later dates in the tour were cancelled because the audience did not seem to be there. \"It would have been different if Jessie had done the tour\", Charles Simon remarked to another actor a few months later. But he was the only member of the radio cast to make the transition.\n\nThe play was published, but has seldom been revived. In 1972 it received an amateur production at Rugby Theatre with Bridget Watson as Mrs Dale and Harry Roberts as her husband the doctor. The only professional revival seems to have been in 1997 at the Kenneth More Studio Theatre in Ilford, when Angela Ellis and Roger Braban played the senior Dales.\n\nThe phrase seized on by caricaturists as typical of Mrs Dale's narrative was \"I'm rather worried about Jim...\" Indeed, the phrase was a staple of many comedy programmes, radio and television, in the early 1960s aiming to poke fun at safe, staid and undemanding middle-class lifestyles. The last episode ended with Mrs Dale saying, \"There's one thing that won't change - I shall always worry about Jim...\"\n\nMrs Dale's Diary was the basis of \"Mrs Wilson's Diary\" in the fortnightly satirical magazine \"Private Eye\". The writers (primarily John Wells) presented Mrs Wilson as seeing herself as comfortably middle class, in contrast to the working class pretensions (and middle class actuality) of her husband, for example the Wincarnis (a brand of tonic wine) and the worsted suits with two pairs of trousers (Wilson was from Huddersfield, a town famous for the manufacture of worsted cloth).\n\nThe show was mentioned in the following episodes of \"The Goon Show\":\n\nIt was also one of the recordings used for torture in the BBC Listening Room, that episode's parody of Room 101.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58949756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58949756", "title": "Nathaniel Edward Yorke-Davies", "text": "Nathaniel Edward Yorke-Davies\n\nNathaniel Edward Yorke-Davies (1841–1914) was a British surgeon and consulting physician in dietetics only. His most famous patient was William Howard Taft.\n\nYorke-Davies, whose father was headmaster at Llanrwst Grammar School, was educated at Cheltenham College and other schools before entering St Bartholomew's Hospital. He qualified L.S.A. in 1865, L.M. Dub. in 1865, M.R.C.S. Eng. in 1866, and L.R.C.P Lond. in 1871. After a brief period of service in the Egyptian navy, he became a specialist in dietetics; he gained an international reputation in that speciality as an author of several books and numerous articles in medical and popular journals.\n\nHis 1889 book \"Foods for the Fat: A Treatise on Corpulency\" urged overweight people to a consult a physician, who would provide psychological support and an individualised plan for diet and exercise. His book criticised Banting's dietary plan for its extreme severity and Ebstein's dietary plan for recommending too much fat. The book remained popular for many years; the 17th edition appeared in 1906 and sold 35,000 copies.\n\nGluten and bran baked goods made using Dr. Yorke-Davies's recipes were sold for the treatment of obesity and diabetes.\n\nUpon his death he was survived by his widow, two sons, and a daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "69692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69692", "title": "Nehushtan", "text": "Nehushtan\n\nIn the biblical Books of Kings (), the Nehushtan (or Nohestan) (Hebrew: נחושתן or נחש הנחושת) is the derogatory name given to the bronze serpent on a pole first described in the Book of Numbers, which God told Moses to erect to so that the Israelites who saw it would be protected from dying from the bites of the \"fiery serpents\" which God had sent to punish them for speaking against God and Moses . In \"Kings\", King Hezekiah institutes an iconoclastic reform that requires the destruction of \"the brazen serpent that Moses had made; for unto those days the children of Israel did burn incense to it; and it was called Nehushtan\". The term means \"a brazen thing, a mere piece of brass\".\n\nThe name is transliterated as \"Nohestan\" in the Douay-Rheims 1899 American Edition, as \"N’chushtan\" in the Complete Jewish Bible and as \"Nechushtan\" in the Orthodox Jewish Bible.\n\nThe English Standard Version of the Bible and the majority of contemporary English translations refer to the serpent as made of 'bronze', whereas the King James Version and a number of other versions state 'brass'. The Douai-Rheims 1899 edition has 'brazen'. Eugene H. Peterson, who created a loose paraphrase of the Bible as The Message (2002), opted for 'a snake of fiery copper'. The reference in 2 Kings 18:4 is translated as 'brasen' in the King James Version.\n\nSnake cults had been well established in Canaan in the Bronze Age: archaeologists have uncovered serpent cult objects in Bronze Age strata at several pre-Israelite cities in Canaan: two at Megiddo, one at Gezer, one in the \"Kodesh Hakodashim\" (Holy of Holies) of the Area H temple at Hazor, and two at Shechem.\n\nAccording to Lowell K. Handy, the Nehushtan may have been the symbol of a minor god of snakebite-cure within the Temple.\n\nIn the biblical story, following their Exodus from Egypt, the Israelites set out from Mount Hor, where Aaron was buried, to go to the Red Sea. However they had to detour around the land of Edom (Numbers 20:21, 25). Frustrated and impatient, they complained against Yahweh and Moses (Num. 21:4-5), and in response God sent \"fiery serpents\" among them. For the sake of the ones who were repentant, Moses was instructed by God to erect a \"serpent of bronze\" which was used to heal those who looked upon it ().\n\nThe term also appears in 2 Kings 18:4 in a passage describing reforms made by King Hezekiah, in which he tore down altars, cut down symbols of Asherah, destroyed the Nehushtan, and according to many Bible translations, gave it that name.\n\nRegarding the passage in 2 Kings 18:4, M. G. Easton noted that \"the lapse of nearly one thousand years had invested the 'brazen serpent' with a mysterious sanctity; and in order to deliver the people from their infatuation, and impress them with the idea of its worthlessness, Hezekiah called it, in contempt, 'Nehushtan', a brazen thing, a mere piece of brass\".\n\nThe tradition of naming it Nehushtan is not considered to be any older than the time of Hezekiah.\n\nIn the Gospel of John, Jesus discusses his destiny with a Jewish teacher named Nicodemus and makes a comparison between the raising up of the Son of Man and the act of the serpent being raised by Moses for the healing of the people.\n\nJesus applied it as a foreshadowing event to his own execution on a stake stating, \"And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up: That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life\" (John 3:14-16).\n\nCharles Spurgeon preached a famous sermon on \"the Mysteries of the Brazen Serpent\" and this passage from John's Gospel in 1857.\n\nIn the Book of Mormon, two prophets make reference to this event. The first is the prophet Nephi, son of Lehi in a general discourse, the second is many years later by the prophet Alma. Nephi tells the people that many of the Israelites perished because of the simplicity and faith required. In the latter narrative, Alma tells the people of Antionum that many of Israelites died because they lacked the faith to look at the brazen serpent. He then compared the brazen serpent to a type of Christ and exhorted the people to look to Christ and spiritually live. \n\nThere is a Brazen Serpent Monument on Mount Nebo in Jordan created by Italian artist Giovanni Fantoni. The Cardston Alberta Temple of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has a handpainted mural depicting Moses and the brazen serpent.. Similarly, on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, Michelangelo painted a mural of the Israelites' deliverance from the plague of serpents by the creation of the bronze serpent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7701587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7701587", "title": "Ottobock", "text": "Ottobock\n\nOttobock is a German prosthetics company situated in Duderstadt. It has been responsible for several innovations in prosthetics, including the C-Leg, a computerized knee that adaptively varies its passive resistance to suit the patients' different walking gaits, and the Michelangelo Hand, a fully articulated robotic hand prosthesis. Ottobock has been a partner to the Paralympic Games since 1988, and an international worldwide partner to the International Paralympic Committee since 2005. In 2016, the partnership was extended until the end of 2020.\n\nOttobock was founded in Berlin as Orthopädische Industrie GmbH in 1919 by its namesake prosthetist, Otto Bock. It was created in response to the large number of injured veterans from World War I. Prostheses handmade by craftsmen could not keep up with demand. Bock's idea was to create components through industrial processes that could be supplied to prosthetists. This marked the beginning of a new industry. The political situation in post-war Berlin was unstable, and soon after the company was founded, it moved to Königsee in Thuringia. Over the following two decades, the company expanded to employ over 600 people.\n\nAfter World War II, Königsee lay within the Russian-occupied East Germany. The company property and assets there were expropriated in 1948. However, Max and Maria Näder, Bock's son-in-law and daughter, had established an office in Duderstadt in Lower Saxony, initially as a sales office for the zones of Germany occupied by the Western powers. In 1947, Max Näder became the managing director of the newly formed Otto Bock Orthopädische Industrie KG. Otto Bock died in 1953.\n\nThe company has been responsible for several innovations in prosthetics. As wood was in short supply in the early post-war years, it pioneered the use of polyurethane to manufacture prosthetics. Otto Bock Kunststoff was founded in 1953 to produce plastic prosthetics. By 2016, it employed 423 people and anticipated revenues of €127 million. Ottobock developed the pyramid adapter, a highly adjustable linkage for prosthetic parts. In 1997, it introduced the C-Leg, a computerized knee that adaptively varies its passive resistance to suit the patients' different walking gaits. It was the world's first fully microprocessor-controlled leg prosthesis system, and transformed the company into a vendor of highly complex mobility systems. The C-Leg was followed by the Michelangelo Hand, a fully articulated robotic hand prosthesis, and the mechatronic C-Brace orthotronic mobility system. Ottobock developed the waterproof Genium X3 knee in cooperation with the United States Department of Defense to allow amputee soldiers to return to duty.\n\nIn 1958, a US-based corporate headquarters was established in Minneapolis, Minnesota under the name Ottobock. In March 2014, the company announced it would relocate its North American headquarters to Austin, Texas. The logistics facility relocated to Louisville, Kentucky, and manufacturing moved to Salt Lake City, Utah. The US company was its first foreign branch. By 2016, it had branches in 45 different countries. Sycor was established as a wholly owned subsidiary in 1998. By 2015, it had 520 employees, and annual revenues of €66.7 million.\n\nProfessor Hans Georg Näder became head of the company in 1990. In 1992, after the Fall of the Berlin Wall and the subsequent German reunification, the Näder family re-purchased the land in Königsee that had been expropriated in 1948, and established a new wheelchair manufacturing facility and logistics centre there. A medical science centre () was built by the company in Berlin in 2009 to celebrate 90 years since its foundation. Max Näder died that year at the age of 94. By 2015, with a work force of 6,300 and annual sales of €771 million, the company was valued at €2.5 billion. In February 2017 Ottobock acquired BeBionic.\n\nOttobock has been a partner to the Paralympic Games since 1988, and an international worldwide partner to the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) since 2005. The 2016 Paralympic Games in Rio de Janeiro was the 13th games at which it provided technical services. This involved shipping of equipment, including 250 items classed as hazardous good or dangerous chemicals, and 15,000 spare parts, including 1,100 wheelchair tyres, 70 running blades and 300 prosthetic feet, from Duderstadt to the port at Bremerhaven, by sea to Santos, and then by road to Rio de Janeiro. At Seoul in 1988, four Ottobock technicians carried out 350 repairs; in Rio de Janeiro in 2016, 100 technicians from 29 countries speaking 26 languages carried out 3,361 repairs for 1,162 athletes, including 2,745 repairs to wheelchairs, 438 to prosthetics, and 178 to orthodics.\n\nBy 2016, Ottobock was the IPC's longest-serving partner. In Rio on 10 September, the IPC's president, Sir Philip Craven, announced that Ottobock had agreed to extend its world-wide partnership to the end of 2020, encompassing the 2020 Paralympic Games in Tokyo.\n\n"}
{"id": "43965661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43965661", "title": "Out-of-hours service", "text": "Out-of-hours service\n\nOut-of-hours services are the arrangements to provide access to healthcare at times when General Practitioner surgeries are closed; in the United Kingdom this is normally between 6.30pm and 8am, at weekends, at Bank Holidays and sometimes if the practice is closed for educational sessions.\n\nMost Out-of-hours services in Scotland and Wales are provided directly by Health Boards. In Northern Ireland they are provided by the Health and Social Care Trusts. In England they are commissioned by Clinical Commissioning Groups, usually working together, as the contracts often cover large areas. Out-of-hours providers in England must be registered with, and are regulated by, the Care Quality Commission.\n\nThe contract for General medical services which most GPs work to requires practices to be responsible for their patients between 8 am and 6.30 pm from Monday to Friday. In some cities commercial deputising services were set up employing doctors to cover the out of hour’s period, paid by the practices in the area but these weren’t viable in much of the country.\n\nWoodside Health Centre in Glasgow established a successful deputising service before 1973: “. . . twenty general practitioners group together to provide a highly organised system of out-of-hours health care … The telephone” (at the health centre) ” is permanently manned and the patients are not involved in the delays of a post office diversion system. In the evening the telephone is answered by an experienced registered general nurse who can give advice where it is appropriate. In the event of a visit being required the nurse is able to contact the doctor on duty by radiotelephone. . . . . The patient’s previous notes are readily available to the nurse in the health centre and can be passed on to the doctor on duty. . . . Control of the system is exercised by a sub-committee of the health centre committee of management. The system thus has the advantages of a commercial deputising service in allowing doctors to have adequate time off duty, but control is exercised from within the health centre.”\n\nThe Royal Commission on the NHS in 1979 reported that commercially organised deputising services had grown rapidly over the last ten years and about one third of all GPs made some use of them. They received complaints that deputies lacked personal knowledge of the patient and access to the medical records, contacting the service could be difficult, and that deputies were slow in responding to emergencies\n\nIn 1994 after minor changes to the GP contract many groups of doctors got together and formed cooperative organisations sharing the out of hours calls between a large number of GPs on a rota basis. A minimum of about 40 GPs were needed to set up a successful cooperative. In 1996 the G-Docs out-of-hours cooperative in Grampian became Scotland’s first out-of-hours general practitioner service, financed by 200 GPs who each paid a monthly subscription.\n\nThe Carson Report published by the Department of Health in 2000 proposed quality standards which would apply not only to deputising services and Out-Of-Hours cooperatives but also to individual GPs & practices providing their own cover. Carson's proposal for “A new model of integrated out-of-hours provision ... accessed by patients via a single telephone call, routed in the first place through NHS Direct and passed, where necessary, to the appropriate provider of out-of-hours services in that locality.” eventually developed into NHS 111 and influenced the formulation of the 2004 GP contract.\n\nUntil the 2004 contract most GPs provided care for their patients outside those hours either themselves, or as part of a GP Co-operative. The total amount earmarked for Out of Hours duties including Night Visit Fees was an average of just under £6000 per GP per year.\n\nThe new contract passed the responsibility for organising out-of-hours services from individual doctors to the Primary Care Trusts. Practices could opt out of the provision of out-of-hours services and lose the £6000 and most did. Some PCTs worked with the GP co-operatives, but some gave the contract to a commercial provider, commonly Harmoni or Serco both of which have been the subject of major complaints and of failing to employ sufficient doctors. By 2013 most of the co-operatives had converted to social enterprises. Many of the co-ops were involved in the provision of contracts to deliver NHS 111 services. According to John Horrocks, chief executive of Urgent Health UK, \"It's not the same as it used to be, where everyone took their turn in a co-operative. It's more of a lifestyle choice. Now, you often find GPs who specialise in out-of-hours … typically, a shift rota is available on the internet and the GP is able to sign up to whatever shifts they want to work.\"\n\nA study by the National Audit Office in July 2014 of people in England found that the urgent care system is complex and many people do not know how to contact out-of-hours GP services or even that such services exist; that 26% had not heard of out-of-hours GP services, and 19% had not heard of NHS 111.\n\nProvision of out-of-hours services is a particular problem in remote locations. The Western Isles are an example of a remote area where new models of care are being trialled, with Community Unscheduled Care Nurses being deployed for patients who need to be visited at their place of residence.\n\nDavid Cameron introduced plans to enable \"hard working people ...to see their GP seven days a week and out of office hours\" in September 2013. This promised access to GPs from 8am-8pm, and on Saturday and Sunday and to \"test a variety of forward-thinking services to suit modern lifestyles, including greater use of Skype, email and phone consultations for those who would find it easier.\" Results from the GP Patient Survey, an independent poll run by Ipsos MORI on behalf of NHS England showed that extending opening hours and weekend opening were not a high priority for many patients. Long waits for appointments and failing to see a preferred, named doctor were more pressing issues. There was variation in demand for weekend opening with the highest demand in Windsor, Ascot and Maidenhead where some 28.1% of patients wanted surgeries open on Saturday but it was lowest in Wigan, where only 13.9% did.\n\nIn October 2014 GPs complained that the NHS 111 service had not been inspected by the Care Quality Commission and that it could jeopardise the safety of Out-of-hours services.\n\nIn April 2015 Exeter Medical School used data from the official GP patient survey in England to score different types of providers out of 100. On speed, confidence and overall experience, scores from patients seen by commercial providers were lower.\nThe score out of 100 for overall experience was 73 for NHS providers; 72 for not-for profit providers; 69 for the commercial sector. Prof John Campbell said the research did show that the very best individual scores by providers were seen in the commercial sector.\n\nHarmoni HS Ltd was a major provider of primary care, including out-of-hours services, which started as a GP co-operative and is now owned by Care UK. Take Care Now had contracts for services in Cambridgeshire, Suffolk, Great Yarmouth and Waveney, and Worcester. It was taken over by Harmoni. Care UK Clinical Services Limited now provides unscheduled care to over 15m patients. It runs out of hours services in Rotherham, Hampshire, Harrow, Hillingdon, Merton, Islington, Kingston, Wandsworth, Camden and Ealing.\n\nIC24 provides services in East Sussex, Brighton & Hove, Kent, East Surrey and West Sussex.\n\nVirgin Care provides services in Croydon\n\nMedvivo provides services in Wiltshire.\n\nNestor Primecare Services Limited provides out of hours services in Mid Essex, Dudley, Sandwell, Heart of Birmingham, South Birmingham, Wolverhampton, Herefordshire, Scarborough, Sunderland in England and Abertawe Bro Morgannwg and Carmarthenshire in Wales.\n\nSerco had a contract to run out-of-hours services in Cornwall but NHS Kernow, the Clinical commissioning group, reached agreement with the firm to end the current contract at the end of May 2015 – 17 months early.\n\nZafash Medical Services Limited provides services in central London on a commercial basis outside the NHS.\n\nServices including Now Healthcare and Push Doctor provide a nationwide commercial GP service that runs out of hours, weekends and bank holidays.\n\n\nUrgent Health UK is a federation of Social Enterprise Unscheduled Primary Care Providers to which many of these organisations belong. According them in 2018 social enterprises were delivering out of hours services to 67% of patients in England, with an annual contract value of £294 million. Since 2008 the proportion delivered by NHS organisations has declined from 30% to 18% and that delivered by commercial providers dropped from 30% to 15%. Average annual funding per patient for social enterprise contracts is £7.62, for NHS organisations £8.10 and commercial organisations £8.22.\n\nCentral Nottinghamshire Clinical Services was placed in Special Measures after an inspection by the Care Quality Commission in May 2015.\n\nIn February 2017 Pulse (magazine) reported that 10 of 104 providers who responded to a Freedom of Information request admitted that there had been overnight and weekend shifts over the past year with no GP cover. The biggest number of sessions were in Peterborough and Tower Hamlets.\n\n"}
{"id": "7720999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720999", "title": "Pearce Bailey", "text": "Pearce Bailey\n\nPearce Bailey (1865–1922) was an American neurologist and psychiatrist, educated at Princeton and Columbia Universities. He became a consultant in several New York hospitals and with Collins and Frankel founded the Neurological Institute. He was also appointed an associate professor of neurology in Columbia. On the entry of the United States into World War I, he was appointed chief of the division of neurology and psychiatry in the United States army with the rank of colonel. He perfected a system for weeding out \"mental defectives\" which is said to have been used as a model by the Allies. His major literary efforts comprised a translation of Golobievski's \"Atlas and Epitome of Diseases Caused by Accident (1900) and a monograph \"Accident and Injury\"; Relation to the Nervous System\" (1906), which was later expanded into \"Diseases of the Nervous System Resulting from Accident and Injury\", a valuable work for the medical world. At the time of his death, Bailey was chairman of the New York State Committee for Mental Defectives.\n"}
{"id": "18025111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18025111", "title": "Practitioner–scholar model", "text": "Practitioner–scholar model\n\nThe practitioner–scholar model is an advanced educational and operational model that is focused on practical application of scholarly knowledge. It was initially developed to train clinical psychologists but has since been adapted by other specialty programs such as business, public health, and law. \n\nIn 1973, a new clinical psychology training model was proposed at the historic Vail Conference on Professional Training in Psychology in Vail, Colorado—the practitioner-scholar model—providing yet another path of training for those primarily interested in clinical practice.\nPrior to this, in 1949, a ground breaking conference was held in Boulder, Colorado, endorsing a model of study for clinicians that to this day has dominated clinical programs at most University based institutions: the scientist–practitioner model, designed to provide a rigorous grounding in research methods and a breadth of exposure to clinical psychology. Prior, research scientists had dominated the field of psychological work, and this second, new model, known as the 'Vail' model, called for more practitioner-oriented course work.\n\nSeveral features differentiate the practitioner-scholar model from the other two:\n\nLike scientist-practitioner training, practitioner-scholar training is characterized by core courses in both basic and applied psychology, supervision during extensive clinical experience, and research consumption. Both require predoctoral internships that are usually full-time appointments in universities, medical centers, community mental health centers, or hospitals.\n"}
{"id": "31351275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31351275", "title": "Pulsatile flow", "text": "Pulsatile flow\n\nIn fluid dynamics, a flow with periodic variations is known as pulsatile flow, or as Womersley flow. The flow profiles was first derived by John R. Womersley (1907–1958) in his work with blood flow in arteries. The cardiovascular system of chordate animals is a very good example where pulsatile flow is found, but pulsatile flow is also observed in engines and hydraulic systems, as a result of rotating mechanisms pumping the fluid.\n\nThe pulsatile flow profile is given in a straight pipe by\n\nwhere:\n\nThe pulsatile flow profile changes its shape depending on the Womersley number\n\nFor formula_3, viscous forces dominate the flow, and the pulse is considered quasi-static with a parabolic profile.\nFor formula_4, the inertial forces are dominant in the central core, whereas viscous forces dominate near the boundary layer. Thus, the velocity profile gets flattened, and phase between the pressure and velocity waves gets shifted towards the core.\n\nThe Bessel function at its lower limit becomes\n\nwhich converges to the Hagen-Poiseuille flow profile for steady flow for\n\nor to a quasi-static pulse with parabolic profile when\n\nIn this case, the function is real, because the pressure and velocity waves are in phase.\n\nThe Bessel function at its upper limit it becomes\n\nwhich converges to\n\nThis is highly reminiscent of the Stokes layer on an oscillating flat plate, or the skin-depth penetration of an alternating magnetic field into an electrical conductor.\nOn the surface formula_10, but the exponential term becomes negligible once formula_11 becomes large, the velocity profile becomes almost constant and independent of the viscosity. Thus, the flow simply oscillates as a plug profile in time according to the pressure gradient,\n\nHowever, close to the walls, in a layer of thickness formula_13, the velocity adjusts rapidly to zero. Furthermore, the phase of the time oscillation varies quickly with position across the layer. The exponential decay of the higher frequencies is faster.\n\nFor deriving the analytical solution of this non-stationary flow velocity profile, the following assumptions are taken:\n\nThus, the Navier-Stokes equation and the continuity equation are simplified as\n\nand\n\nrespectively. The pressure gradient driving the pulsatile flow is decomposed in Fourier series,\n\nwhere formula_17 is the imaginary number, formula_18 is the angular frequency of the first harmonic (i.e., formula_19), and formula_20 are the amplitudes of each harmonic formula_21. Note that, formula_22 (standing for formula_23) is the steady-state pressure gradient, whose sign is opposed to the steady-state velocity (i.e., a negative pressure gradient yields positive flow). Similarly, the velocity profile is also decomposed in Fourier series in phase with the pressure gradient, because the fluid is incompressible,\n\nwhere formula_25 are the amplitudes of each harmonic of the periodic function, and the steady component (formula_23) is simply Poiseuille flow\n\nThus, the Navier-Stokes equation for each harmonic reads as\n\nWith the boundary conditions satisfied, the general solution of this ordinary differential equation for the oscillatory part (formula_29) is\n\nwhere formula_31 is the Bessel function of first kind and order zero, formula_32 is the Bessel function of second kind and order zero, formula_33 and formula_34 are arbitrary constants, and formula_35 is the dimensionless Womersley number. The axisymetic boundary condition (formula_36) is applied to show that formula_37 for the derivative of above equation to be valid, as the derivatives formula_38 and formula_39 approach infinity. Next, the wall non-slip boundary condition (formula_40) yields formula_41. Hence, the amplitudes of the velocity profile of the harmonic formula_21 becomes\n\nwhere formula_44 is used for simplification.\nThe velocity profile itself is obtained by taking the real part of the complex function resulted from the summation of all harmonics of the pulse,\n\nFlow rate is obtained by integrating the velocity field on the cross-section. Since,\n\nthen\n\nTo compare the shape of the velocity profile, it can be assumed that\n\nwhere\n\nis the shape function.\nIt is important to notice that this formulation ignores the inertial effects. The velocity profile approximates a parabolic profile or a plug profile, for low or high Womersley numbers, respectively.\n\nFor straight pipes, wall shear stress is\n\nThe derivative of a Bessel function is\n\nHence,\n\nIf the pressure gradient formula_20 is not measured, it can still be obtained by measuring the velocity at the centre line. The measured velocity has only the real part of the full expression in the form of\n\nNoting that formula_55, the full physical expression becomes\n\nat the centre line. The measured velocity is compared with the full expression by applying some properties of complex number. For any product of complex numbers (formula_57), the amplitude and phase have the relations formula_58 and formula_59, respectively. Hence,\n\nand\n\nwhich finally yield\n\n"}
{"id": "3060884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3060884", "title": "Reiji Okazaki", "text": "Reiji Okazaki\n\nOkazaki was born in Hiroshima, Japan. He graduated in 1953 from Nagoya University, and worked as a professor there after 1963. He died of leukemia (sequelae of Atomic bombings of Hiroshima) in 1975 at the age of 44; he had been heavily irradiated in Hiroshima when the first atomic bomb was dropped.\n\nIn 1968, Okazaki discovered the way in which the lagging strand of DNA is replicated via fragments, now called Okazaki fragments.\n\nThe experiments by his group used \"E. coli\". After introducing T-thymidine for only ten seconds to \"E. coli\" during DNA replication, he placed the sample in a test tube of alkaline sucrose. The larger, heavier DNA flowed to the bottom of the test tube, while the smaller, lighter DNA did not. When samples were taken from the bottom of the test tube, it was found that half were heavy and half were light, proving that half of the DNA was complete and half was in fragments. Then he took a sample of \"E. coli\" DNA that had been synthesized for an additional five seconds, and found all the activity now resulted in the larger molecular weight. Therefore, there were no longer any fragments. This proved that during the five second chase, the RNA primer was removed by DNA polymerase I, and the bases were joined together by DNA ligase, leaving the newly synthesized DNA fully mature and repaired.\n"}
{"id": "46215776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46215776", "title": "Research Institute for Groundwater", "text": "Research Institute for Groundwater\n\nThe Research Institute for Groundwater (RIGW) is one of the most important organizations in Egypt specialized in development & Water Management of groundwater policy. The policy indicates the water allocation in space and time from water resources to users. Assessment of groundwater potential for the various users is made by RIGW, based on available information which is updated periodically according to the availability of the information.\n\nRIGW has the principal responsibility within the National Water Research Center to formulate and conduct applied research programs responsive to the national requirements to support integrated development and management of groundwater resources in Egypt. To accomplish this mission RIGW activities is encompass:\n\nTo fulfill this mission, RIGW has to participate in the initiation of management and legislation system for the protection of groundwater from degradation and the control of the environmental impacts that may accompany groundwater development. \n\nThe role of RIGW at present is focused on its effective contribution to the planning and implementation of the national water policy and the development of Egypt's water resources. \n\nDirect beneficiaries are the MWRI and its departments. Other clients include: \n\nTo fulfill the institute mission, the organization structure has been modified to reflect the activities and facilitate the execution of research and other programs.\n"}
{"id": "1786040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1786040", "title": "Saudi Aramco Medical Services Organization", "text": "Saudi Aramco Medical Services Organization\n\nJohns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare is the result of a first-of-its-kind health care joint venture between Saudi Aramco and Johns Hopkins Medicine. \nSince 1933, Saudi Aramco had delivered a high standard of medical care to its employees and their families through its own medical services organization. In 2013, Saudi Aramco partnered with Johns Hopkins Medicine to carve out and expand the capabilities of its medical services through Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare (JHAH), drawing upon the vast expertise of The Johns Hopkins University and The Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System to provide clinical program development, research, training, safety and quality, and health care administration expertise.\n\nInaugurated on January 28, 2014, Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare is the complex of company-operated and privately contracted hospitals that serve Saudi Aramco employees and their dependents, numbering about 350,000 total. In all communities, basic health care is provided through clinics, which function much as Health Maintenance Organizations do in the United States.\nA rotating staff of general practitioners performs examinations and prescribes care on an outpatient basis. All of the clinics have facilities and laboratories for basic diagnostic testing. Each clinic provides ambulance service and emergency room care, and each has a pharmacy where prescriptions ordered by clinic physicians can be filled at no charge. The community clinics are designed to take care of ordinary medical needs. More significant health problems are handled at the Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare hospital in Dhahran.The professional staff at the hospital is multinational, but many of the specialists are U.S. Board Certified or the UK's equivalent. \n\nJohns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare Dhahran hospital is accredited by JCI, the newly created international division of JCAH. The blood bank is accredited by the American Association of Blood Banks. The Medical Laboratories have been continuously accredited by the College of American Pathologist (CAP) since 2002.\nLiaison relations exist with the World Health Organization in Geneva, Switzerland, and the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta, Georgia, for immediate consultation regarding diseases of international significance.\n\nEPIC:\n\nIt’s been a long journey for JHAH on the road to implementing a truly first-rate Electronic Health Record (EHR) that is capable of supporting its transformational ambitions in being an ever brighter example for quality of patient care in the kingdom. The recently launched patient portal, MyChart, which elevates patient partnership in their own healthcare to a new level, is only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the anticipated benefits of the new Epic system.\n"}
{"id": "37817564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37817564", "title": "Sport Sciences Research Institute of Iran", "text": "Sport Sciences Research Institute of Iran\n\nSport Sciences Research Institute of Iran is the only national organization in charge of scientific research in the field of Physical Education and Sport Sciences. It was established in 1998 by Ministry of Science, Research and Technology. In 2011 to improve its structure the research center was promoted to research institute and moved to its new location in Mashhad, Khorasan Razavi. The president of the institute is Dr. Mahdi Talebpour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20607625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20607625", "title": "Stateira (wife of Artaxerxes II)", "text": "Stateira (wife of Artaxerxes II)\n\nStateira (died about 400 BC) was the wife of King Artaxerxes II of Persia.\n\nAsteroid 831 Stateira is named in her honour.\n\nStateira was the daughter of the Persian nobleman Hydarnes. She married Artaxerxes II, the oldest son of Darius II of Persia and his wife Parysatis. Probably Darius II wanted to establish good relations with an important noble family, from which Stateira was descended, because her brother Terituchmes married Amestris, a daughter of Darius II. But Terituchmes loved one of his half-sisters more than his royal bride and tried to start a rebellion. Therefore, Parysatis had all the children of Hydarnes killed and only spared the life of Stateira at the request of her husband.\n\nArtaxerxes II took over the Persian throne in 404 BC after the death of his father. Stateira seems to have been his only legal wife despite his numerous concubines. She bore a son, Artaxerxes, the heir to the throne, and probably other children. The queen mother Parysatis and Stateira tried to be the key political influence on the king; so the women became bitter rivals.\n\nStateira was very popular with the people, allegedly because she left the curtains open when she drove in her carriage and because she talked to the ordinary people. She supported her husband in his quarrel with his brother Cyrus the Younger and criticized her sharp-tongued mother-in-law, because Parysatis had helped her favourite son Cyrus in his attempt to win the Persian throne from his brother Artaxerxes II. Reportedly the intense hatred between the two women led Parysatis to encourage Artaxerxes II to take on concubines in order to hurt his wife. Stateira also publicly spoke up against the cruelties of the queen mother at the Persian court. For example, she criticized the brutal treatment of the eunuch Masabates and therefore intensified her conflict with Parysatis.\n\nFinally Parysatis had Stateira murdered. Classical sources give different reasons for this deed. According to one version Parysatis wanted to save the life of the Spartan commander Clearchus and his fellow-generals, who had been taken prisoner by Tissaphernes, but Stateira had succeeded in persuading her husband to execute the prisoners. Therefore, Parysatis is supposed to have poisoned Stateira. Plutarch, in his biography of Artaxerxes II, did not believe this story. According to another tradition Parysatis murdered her daughter-in-law because she realized that her son only felt true love for his wife. Plutarch reports that Parysatis performed the assassination with the help of a loyal servant named Gigis. She carved a bird with a poisoned knife in such a way that only one half of the animal was mixed with the poison. This half was served to Stateira when they were dining together. The poisoned meal caused the painful death of Stateira.\n\n"}
{"id": "2902506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2902506", "title": "Stephen A. Mitchell (psychologist)", "text": "Stephen A. Mitchell (psychologist)\n\nStephen A. Mitchell (July 23, 1946 – December 21, 2000) was a clinical psychologist and psychoanalyst whose writings helped to clarify many disparate psychoanalytic theories and theoreticians. His book with Jay Greenberg, \"Object Relations in Psychoanalytic Theory\" (1983), became a classic textbook in graduate schools and post-graduate institutions, providing a clear and systematic comparison of what had long been a highly complex and often confusing set of disparate theories. Stephen Mitchell was considered a leader of relational psychoanalysis. Mitchell helped to create the Relational Track of the New York University Postdoctoral Program in Psychotherapy and Psychoanalysis.\n\n\"Object Relations in Psychoanalytic Theory\" distinguished between psychoanalytic theories that emphasize biological drives such as sexuality and aggression, on the one hand, and theories that emphasize human relationships, on the other. The former were referred to as \"drive/conflict theories\", and the latter were termed \"relational/conflict theories\". Mitchell and Greenberg argued that drive theories and relational theories are conceptually incompatible, and psychoanalysis must therefore choose between them. After their book, the ideas of Mitchell and Greenberg diverged. Mitchell became generally acknowledged as the founder of the school of psychoanalysis known as Relational, which he described in his books, which include \"Relational Concepts in Psychoanalysis\" (1988), \"Hope and Dread in Psychoanalysis\" (1993), \"Influence and Autonomy in Psychoanalysis\" (1997), \"Relationality\" (2000), \"Can Love Last?\" (2001), and, with Margaret Black, \"Freud and Beyond: A History of Psychoanalytic Thought\" (1996).\n\nOne of Mitchell's most important accomplishments was the establishment of the international psychoanalytic journal, \"Psychoanalytic Dialogues\", a highly influential scholarly quarterly that continues to bring Relational Psychoanalysis to a wide audience. Mitchell served as Editor for the journal's first ten years, 1990-2000. After the publication of his first book, with Greenberg, he was in great demand, and taught his ideas across the United States, Europe, and Israel.\n\nIn addition to his scholarly contributions, Mitchell was also an important political figure in psychoanalysis. He was instrumental in developing a number of psychoanalytic organizations, including the American Psychological Association's Division of Psychoanalysis, the Relational Track of the New York University Postdoctoral Program in Psychotherapy and Psychoanalysis, and a variety of other groups. \n\nMitchell died of cardiac arrest at age 54. His final book, published posthumously and entitled \"Can Love Last?\" was an application of relational theory to love relationships.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43973606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43973606", "title": "Thelma Alper", "text": "Thelma Alper\n\nThelma Gorfinkle Alper (July 24, 1908 - July 30, 1988) was an American clinical psychologist, known for creating a study measure for women's achievement motivation. She was also the first Jewish woman to receive a Ph.D from Harvard, having careers at multiple institutions as she conducted studies primarily on memory of tasks, with an interest in its relation to women.\n\nAlper grew up in Chelsea, Massachusetts to a Jewish family that Alper described as an \"achievement oriented, but not at all a college-oriented, Jewish family\". She had a sister that was ten years older, named Bertha, who has been described as the most influential role model in Alper's life, yet someone who she could never dream to surpass or even match in her own achievements. Bertha was valedictorian and graduated at sixteen with the intention to attempt a career in business; she was more outgoing than her sister. It was Bertha who persuaded Alper to follow the college prep track in high school.\n\nAlper was a professor's assistant in college, and was later promoted to the position of general assistant for Wellesley's psychology department. She also worked for the Judge Baker Guidance Center in Boston for free before getting her B.A. and M.A. later on. She married Abraham T. Alper, who was involved in law, in 1932. She was subject to much gender discrimination throughout her career, especially during her time at Harvard. She was subjected to a grueling three hour interview where she was informed of the low female acceptance and survival rate. She would not receive a position at a university that guaranteed a tenure for female faculty until 1952 at her alma mater. Despite this, she was able to make her mark and see the changing times later on as more women were accepted onto faculty positions. She would retire from her position as a faculty member at her alma mater in 1973 and from Judge Baker in 1979, but continued to run a small practice to help out adult patients until her death.\n\nThelma Alper passed away on July 30, 1988 at Sherrill House in Boston due to a stroke. She was 80 years old.\n\nAs Alper's record in school was excellent, she was informed by her principal she would not have to take the College Entrance Examination, and was eligible to be admitted into Radcliffe College as a student right away. Despite this, Alper struggled with her choice of college. While Alper favored Radcliffe, her sister and father wanted Wellesley, while her mother picked out Simmons College. Although nervous at the lack of familiar social connections at Wellesley, Alper went with her sister's choice and took the College Boards in June 1925, before officially starting college in September of the same year, at the age of seventeen.\n\nAlper did not take well to Wellesley at first and was even thinking of pulling out. She initially considered a profession as a kindergarten teacher, for which Wellesley did not possess a promising program offering a chance for growth for at the time. However, she chose to stay for the full year at her sister's request, and ended up feeling better about the choice later on as she took more German classes that piqued her interest - leading her to major in the language. Her sophomore year was when she was introduced to the topic of psychology through a required introductory course. She initially disliked the subject and found it quite dry, even when taking more advanced classes in the field. Despite this, she accepted a role as the introductory psychology professor's assistant in May 1929. This allowed her to take care of her sister's young son (since her sister had passed away in December 1928), and to continue her education at Wellesley for free, even as a graduate student. She chose this position over several jobs that were related to her German major, including a teaching position at Wheaton College, a translator position for a publishing firm, and a position in one of Yale's foreign departments.\n\nShe was later promoted to be an assistant for the department, allowing her the experience of teaching small discussions and participating in some research. She received her B.A. in 1929, with General Honors. A brief six-week stint between her junior and senior year of college for Judge Baker Guidance Center allowed her to work in a more clinical position. She later received her M.A. in 1933. Unfortunately, her professor died that summer, which meant that she no longer had good support within the psychology department to advance any further without a Ph.D. It was around this time she hit a wall in her career, being both financially unsure and unable to move forward with her work at Wellesley. She chose to take classes at the Harvard Graduate School of Education a few years later in order to be eligible to help in the English department, where she took on the role of a \"director of remedial reading.\" However, Alper wanted a new challenge, and was thus driven to apply for a spot in a Ph.D. program in Harvard's College of Liberal Arts psychology department. This happened despite the current chairman, Dr. Edwin G. Boring, warning her that their acceptance of females was sparse and the environment for them harsh. She was accepted and began class in 1939.\n\nHer first publication came during her time with the remedial reading program, which appeared in \"The Wellesley Magazine\" and was titled \"If Only I Could Read Faster.\" She would later become a co-editor for her collaboration with Dr. Boring for two books, \"Psychology for the Fighting Man\" and \"Psychology for the Returning Veteran\".\n\nDespite the harsher treatment of women at Harvard at the time and the smaller graduating class compared to men, Alper passed the Qualifying Preliminary Examinations in 1941, and got her Psychology Ph.D. in 1943. After resigning from Wellesley, she became a Psychology tutor at Radcliffe in 1942, and soon a Psychology instructor for Harvard in 1943. The position at Harvard would lead to many hardships on Alper's part, as much of Harvard's curriculum was based around separating male and female. Despite much initial opposition from the male faculty, it was found that the male students were much more accepting of the idea of a female instructor, and enrollment stayed the same. She would be the only female in the department until 1946, with the arrival of Eugenia Hanfmann in the social relations department.\n\nThe gender discrimination would continue as both wom en would eventually leave due to the lack of tenure opportunity from Harvard. Alper would find similar results at Tufts and Boston, where both offered spots without the possibility of tenure. She would later accept a position for Clark University's psychology department, where she was, again, the only female on staff. Despite a more accepting and open-minded environment there, she left to take an offer back at Wellesley in 1952 due to her husband's poor health. The position included a role as an associate professor, where she could be promoted into a full professor within two years and tenure was finally an option. Furthermore, the Nursery School at Wellesley would remain as long as it was useful to her research. She would remain there until she retired in 1973. She was also the chairwomen of the psychology department there for some unknown time.\n\nIn 1959, Alper would return to the place where she was first given clinical experience - Judge Baker Guidance Center. Her visit was agreed upon with the president of Wellesley, in coordination with her acceptance of her position at the university. At Judge Baker, she would spend her time in clinical research and training in therapy. At some point, she was a consultant for a Head Start set-up in Charleston, MA, with Dr. Bessie Sperry, which lasted for five-years. She would retire from Judge Baker in June 1979.\n\nAlper's research mainly focused on completed and uncompleted tasks, meshing clinical and social psychology, the latter of which was influenced by Professor Kurt Lewin's class. This interest was further pursued via her Ph.D., and later led to her creation of a role-orientation measure, termed the Wellesley Role-Orientation Scale (WROS) in 1974. Women who receive a high score using this measure typically prefer the role that are assigned to them via the culture - the traditionalists. Those who don't receive a high score are more likely to either be neutral when it comes to taking on more traditional male careers, or feel that the world is unjust due to the heavy discrimination on women who desire to make a career in male-oriented fields.\n\nDuring her time taking courses at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, she developed \"The Wellesley Spelling Scale\" with another colleague, which was later published and marketed by the California Test Bureau. After passing her examinations at the Harvard College of Liberal Arts, she became the eleventh woman to gain a Ph.D. from Harvard in psychology. She was also the first Jewish woman to receive such a distinction from Harvard. She served as President of the Massachusetts Psychological Association and two chapters of Phi Beta Kappa. Furthermore, Alper created a measure to study achievement motivation in women, named the Wellesley Role Orientation Scale (WROS). She received a Career Contribution Award in 1975 from the MPA.\n"}
{"id": "2997517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2997517", "title": "Turkish Sign Language", "text": "Turkish Sign Language\n\nTurkish Sign Language () is the language used by the deaf community in Turkey. As with other sign languages, TİD has a unique grammar that is different from the oral languages used in the region.\n\nTİD uses a two-handed manual alphabet which is very different from the two-handed alphabets used in the BANZSL sign languages.\n\nThere is little published information on Turkish Sign Language.\n\nAccording to the Turkish Statistical Institute, there are a total of 89,000 persons (54,000 male, 35,000 female) with hearing impairment and 55,000 persons (35,000 male, 21,000 female) with speaking disability living in Turkey, based on 2000 census data.\n\nTİD is dissimilar from European sign languages. There was a court sign language of the Ottoman Empire, which reached its height in the 16th century and 17th centuries and lasted at least until the early 20th. However, there is no record of the signs themselves and no evidence the language was ancestral to modern Turkish Sign Language.\n\nDeaf schools were established in 1902, and until 1953 used TİD alongside the Turkish spoken and written language in education. Since 1953 Turkey has adopted an oralist approach to deaf education.\n\n\n"}
