{"id": "41714206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41714206", "title": "Ali II (Bavandid ruler)", "text": "Ali II (Bavandid ruler)\n\nAli II (Persian: علی) was a ruler of the Bavand dynasty who ruled briefly in 1271. He was the brother and successor of Muhammad. Nothing more is known about him; he died in 1271, and was succeeded by his cousin Yazdagird of Tabaristan.\n"}
{"id": "879919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=879919", "title": "Anachitis", "text": "Anachitis\n\nIn divination, an anachitis, or anancitis, meaning \"stone of necessity\" is a stone used to call up spirits from water. It was described as a type of diamond by Martin Ruland the Elder.\n\nThe stone was used in classical antiquity by the Magi, being described by Pliny the Elder as one of their \"dreadful lies\". Its use had fallen out of favour by the Middle Ages.\n"}
{"id": "20849560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20849560", "title": "Babacar Khane", "text": "Babacar Khane\n\nBabacar Khane (born January 2, 1935), also known as Yogi Khane, Yogi Babacar Khane and Maître Khane, is a practitioner of yoga, author, and mystical poet. His work has focused on the diffusion of yoga in Europe and its introduction into medical treatments. He founded the International Yoga Institute and an international yoga teacher training school, active now in Africa, America, Asia and Europe. He introduced a new way of teaching yoga based on Indian Hatha yoga asanas, Egyptian postures and Chinese exercises attributed by the Shaolin monks to Bodhidharma. He is one proponent of \"Egyptian yoga\", a branch of yoga based on the observation of the ancient-Egyptian art.\n\nKhane was born in Dakar, into a Sufi family. He learned yoga at an early age and became a disciple of Paramahansa Yogananda. He founded the first center of the International Yoga Institute (or Institut International de Yoga) in Dakar, in 1960. In 1964, he was invited by Philippe Baumgartner, a French gerontologist and author of several books (among them, \"L'Homme et son Âge\", Julliard, Paris, 1959; and \"101 Conseils pour retrouver et développer la mémoire\", Hachette, Paris, 1976, ) to take part with him in several international medical conferences in order to explain and show how yoga might be helpful against the ageing process. In 1965, Baumgartner asked him to collaborate with him in the treatment of his rheumatic patients in Aix-les-Bains. Both organised later an annual course of treatment in Gorée. This collaboration lasted until the death of Baumgartner in 1980 and was very important for the genesis of the therapeutic and preventive yoga method created by Khane. Baumgartner introduced Khane in several important European yoga schools and federations who invited him soon to give often seminars and hatha-yoga demonstrations. In 1972, he opened his first yoga teacher training school in Switzerland. In 1974, he became a member of the pedagogic committee of the Fédération Française de Yoga (called now the FNEY). In 1978, he decided to leave this Federation and devote himself entirely to the development of the International Yoga Institute in Europe, Africa and America. His yoga school now has branches in many countries throughout the world.\n\nWhen he began to introduce yoga in the treatment of Baumgartner's old and rheumatic patients, Khane had to adapt his teaching to the limited abilities of this new audience. For pedagogic reasons, he decided to introduce into his hatha-yoga lessons some Chinese exercises based on the inner style (Nei Shia) of the kung-fu method attributed to the Indian Buddhist monk Bodhidharma. He used in addition some postures depicted in the temples of ancient Egypt, which he calls \"Egyptian yoga\".\n\nKhane wrote several books about \"Egyptian yoga\". He claimed in those books that some hatha-yoga asanas were practised in ancient Egypt. Khane claims in addition that other poses represented in Egyptian temples and graves had similar effects to the Indian one and could be considered as yoga postures. As Khane mentions himself, some \"Egyptian\" postures had been taught in the past by Hanish (Mazdanan, 1932), and A. de Sambucy, who wrote in the sixties the book \"Le Yoga irano-égyptien\". Khane built a complete pedagogic system based on the Egyptian bas-reliefs and paintings, and studied the similarities between some Egyptian words or pharaonic symbols and Indian yogic concepts. He proposes to see in Pharao a model of the human realization. The assertion made by Khane in many of his books, lectures, interviews and articles is that signs of the existence of yoga appear at approximately the same time in India and Egypt, and that the two traditions are very close, but parallel. For Khane, yoga is a universal legacy kept in life and passed down to humanity through generations by India, despite the fact that it is possible to find numerous traces of yoga in Ancient Egypt and perhaps in a few Judaeo-Christian or Islamic practices. For him what is important in the fact that yoga was practiced in Egypt, is that it is a link between several spiritual traditions and a factor of unity for humanity.\nThe idea that yoga was practised in Ancient Egypt is now accepted by several European writers specialized in the study of the spirituality. Khane is generally accepted by other yoga schools as one of the main exponents of Egyptian yoga. Davina Delor writes : \"Babacar Khane est le maître contemporain révélateur du Yoga des Pharaons.\" Gérard Blitz, former General Secretary of the European Union of National Yoga Federations (UEFNY, called now European Union of Yoga) credits him with having found the traces of the Egyptian yoga \"Es este hombre que se interesa al Yoga Egipcio, Yoga de el que él su esposa han vuelto a encontrar huellas en una civilización antigua de al menos seis mil anos (ver su libro : \"El Yoga de los Faraones\" and asked him to conduct several international yogic trips (1987, 1989, 1991) to Egypt under the patronage of the European Union of National Yoga Federations.\nIn Africa, Senghor in one of his official speeches, called upon Senegalese youth and athletes to return beyond Greece to their Egyptian roots, following the path opened by Khane.\n\nAn \"internationally recognized\" master, Khane has been selected as member of the World Yoga Council. The Institut International de Yoga is a member of the International Yoga Federation and the European Yoga Alliance. Khane is regularly invited to perform yoga and give lectures or yoga lessons in international Yoga conferences throughout the world. Since 1973, he has participated many times in the annual conference organized in Zinal by the European Union of Yoga.\nGérard Blitz, important person in the field of yoga, wrote about him : \"hombre cuya sola presencia es sugestiva, un Sabio auténtico.\" From 1978 to 1988, his yoga lessons were broadcast daily on Radio Télévision Sénégalaise (RTS). Several European TV channels (for example La Deuxième Chaîne, called now France 2, 1972) invited him to take part in programmes about yoga or interviewed him (Algerian TV channel, Spanish and Greek TV channels). On the request of an Algerian Minister, Abdelmadjid Aouchiche, Director of DNC and former Dr Baumgartner's patient, Khane was asked by the Algerian state (though communist at this time) to introduce yoga in Algeria while training a team of yoga teachers, from 1978 to 1982.\nKhane's work and finds in the domain of Egyptian yoga are presented as reference in several academic publications.\nSeveral books and articles by other European yoga teachers are based expressly on Khane's teaching.\n\nKhane is considered by Marie-Madeleine Davy, a specialist of the French medieval mystical theology,\" as \"hijo digno de los poetas soufis\".\n\n\n\nand \n"}
{"id": "6242348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6242348", "title": "British Traditional Wicca", "text": "British Traditional Wicca\n\nBritish Traditional Wicca (abbreviated BTW) is the term used to group a set of Wiccan traditions originating in the New Forest region of England. The term British Traditional Wicca is used to define the originator traditions and practices (usually with traceable lineage) apart from other subsequent forms of Wicca.\n\nThe most prominent of these traditions are Gardnerian Wicca and Alexandrian Wicca but also other traditions claiming a shared New Forest history. These reach as far abroad as America with traditions such as Central Valley Wicca. \n\nThe term \"wicca\" is well-attested as the Old English word for \"[male] witch\", the female form being \"wicce\" both older forms of the Modern English \"witch\". In modern usage, however, it came into the public lexicon with the works of Gerald Gardner, with the spelling \"wica\". \n\n"}
{"id": "54950063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54950063", "title": "Cadet Org", "text": "Cadet Org\n\nThe Cadet Org was a former subdivision of the Church of Scientology for the children of members of the Sea Org (SO), an internal Scientology grouping of the organization's most dedicated members. It operated for about thirty years between the early 1970s and the early 2000s in a number of locations in the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia. Some of its facilities reportedly housed as many as 400 children who were aged between a few months and sixteen years old.\n\nChildren in the Cadet Org were divided into two or three different categories reflecting their age and level of proficiency in Scientology. They were typically housed in dorms under the supervision of a small number of adults. Conditions at Cadet Org facilities were reportedly often dirty and unsafe, which resulted in at least two prosecutions by public authorities. The children were granted only infrequent contact with their parents and reportedly had very little time off or playtime.\n\nThe Cadet Org was said to have been severely under-resourced, leading to a lack of basic provisions such as toilet paper, food and clothing at various times and places. The Church of Scientology itself reported that the Cadet Org was often treated as a dumping ground for adult staff who had failed elsewhere in the Sea Org, leading to unsuitable people, including pedophiles, working in Cadet Org facilities. Internal church documents and the accounts of ex-members have highlighted recurrent problems with physical and sexual abuse of children in the Cadet Org.\n\nLike the adult Sea Org, the Cadet Org was run on quasi-military lines with a strict daily routine, timed to the minute, that ran from at least 6.30 am to 9.30 pm. Children were given posts and were assigned responsibility for managing various aspects of their facilities, including discipline. They were required to do hard physical labor, sometimes without protective equipment and at very young ages.\n\nThe Cadet Org was eventually dissolved around the start of the 21st century after Sea Org members were forbidden to have children, as they were regarded as too great a burden. This reportedly resulted in many female Sea Org members having abortions to avoid being punished by the Church for contravening the ban.\n\nThe Cadet Org was defined by Scientology's founder L. Ron Hubbard as being\n\nHubbard's attitude towards children was to treat them as what he termed \"assets\". In 1972 he wrote:\n\nHe told Scientologists in 1973:\n\nIn Scientology doctrine, children are regarded as being \"adults in small bodies\". According to L. Ron Hubbard, their bodies house ancient and immortal thetans or spirits who are capable of carrying out the same responsibilities as any adult. Because their spirits are regarded as ageless, their status as children is irrelevant. Scientologists working as staff members believe that their most important purpose is saving the world and everything else is secondary. Vicki Aznaran, a former church official, explains: \"Scientology comes first, and everything else is off-purpose. Parents who want to spend time with their children are looked down on. It's not socially acceptable.\"\n\nDuring the late 1960s, when Hubbard founded the Sea Org to accompany him aboard the ships \"Apollo\", \"Athena\", \"Diana\", and \"Excalibur\", caring for children presented a significant problem for Sea Org members. A post of \"Governess\" was established in 1968 to look after Sea Org children. The difficulty of looking after children aboard a ship is hinted at by Hubbard's instruction that if a child was \"found in Hold 1 or any hidden compartment of the ship they are to be locked up.\"\n\nBy the early 1970s, Sea Org members were being based ashore and new arrangements were needed. In 1972, the newly-established Cadet Org was divided into three subgroups: Cadets, who were Sea Org members on the payroll with posts of their own; children, aged 6 and above, who were not on the payroll, and babies or small children, who were under 6 years of age. Children and Cadets were permitted to attend public or state schools in their area, but had to undertake Scientology study in the evenings to \"handle any confusions\" caused by what they had covered in school. Sea Org parents were allowed to form Parents' Committees to oversea the living conditions and upbringing of Sea Org children. However, parents' contact with their children was restricted; communications \"to a child or about a child\" were required to go through the Cadets' Commanding Officer \"who may alter or cut it if off [program].\"\n\nChildren who transgressed were to be punished \"by placing that child in the [Rehabilitation Project Force] under severe restrictions\". The RPF is a program for Sea Org members who are regarded as having violated expectations or policies, and has been characterized by critics as a forced labor and re-indoctrination program. A version for children was established by order of L. Ron Hubbard. It appears to have fallen into abeyance for a while, but a 1989 minute by a Cadet Org staff member recommended its reinstitution. The author wrote that she had \"several Cadets and blown [escaped] Cadets who need to go to the children's RPF ... A very small percentage are enturbulative [troublesome] sources and are sabotaging efforts to set the scene right. They need to be moved off the line per Forcing In The Ideal Scene.\" One particular child, who was named in the document, was recommended to be \"moved off everyone's lines and put into the Children's RPF. [He] recently took a razor blade and cut X's in his skin up and down both his arms. He is pychotic [sic] in PT [present time] and needs close supervision.\"\n\nSea Org children based in Los Angeles, California, lived in a number of facilities including a building on Fountain Avenue, another on Melrose Avenue and two three-story buildings at 811 Beacon Street. One of them, Tonja Burden, spent three months at Beacon Street in 1973 at the age of 13. She later testified that at the facility, which housed 400 children,\n\nBy the Church's own admission, the Fountain Avenue facility was illegal, as it flouted local child safety regulations. It violated several building codes – it was not the right type of construction for group care of children, children under five were cared for above the first floor, and the children's rooms did not all have exits directly to the outside of the building. The illegalities were discovered by the Los Angeles County and State authorities following a hepatitis outbreak in February 1979. The church was tipped off that it would be raided by California state agents. This gave it time to move the children into an annex building that was hurriedly made to confirm with legal requirements. By the time the raid took place, a church official reported, \"there was nothing they could do to us.\"\n\nOne of the nannies, Sheila Huber, said that at the age of sixteen she was put in charge of around thirty children aged under three, all housed in a single one-bedroom apartment: \"I couldn't believe it. It was wall-to-wall cribs. There were just under 30 children and they were under my sole care. I had no training.\" Perhaps not surprisingly, the children had very restricted lives, according to Huber. She later recalled:\n\nSome of the children of Scientologists working at the Church's Pacific Area Command (PAC) base in Los Angeles were housed at Canyon Oaks Ranch near Santa Clarita, California, north-west of the city. According to former Scientologists Saina Kamula and Mirriam Francis, who lived at the PAC Ranch in the mid-1990s, it was a \"military-esque\" facility that operated \"like Lord of the Flies\". Francis described it as \"a bunch of trailers plopped down on a few acres in desert SoCal area and that's where we studied more Scientology and worked and lived amongst each other.\" Kamula and Francis say that children were punished by being made to eat lunch behind maggot-infested dumpsters. Similar to other Cadet Org facilities, the children living at the PAC Ranch were made to carry out hard physical labor including demolish possibly asbestos-laced walls \nor laying bricks on L. Ron Hubbard Way in Los Angeles. Kamula says that she was made to work for 60 hours a week as an underage teen and suffered severe stress as a result, which led to her being placed on a suicide watch on several occasions. The facility was shut down in 2007.\n\nIn the 1990s, the children of Sea Org members working at Scientology's Gold Base in California were housed in a facility called the \"Int[ernational] Ranch\". This was located on five hundred acres of land in the San Jacinto Hills in Riverside County, adjacent to the Soboba Indian Reservation about 20 miles from Gold Base. A cluster of buildings called the Motels occupied the center of the site, with six or seven other buildings scattered around nearby. When Jenna Miscavige Hill was sent there at the age of six in March 1990, she was one of fifteen other children of senior Scientology executives who lived at the site – a figure that eventually grew to around 80.\n\nThe site was dilapidated, overgrown and presented fire risks, so the children were put to work renovating it. Although electrical and plumbing work was carried out by adults, virtually all of the other renovation work was carried out by the children. The children were divided into three groups: Children, Precadets and Cadets. The grouping was determined by both age and how advanced they were in their Scientology training. The youngest, the Children, were generally under six years old, Precadets were seven to nine and Cadets nine to sixteen. It was possible for particularly advanced younger children to be Cadets, or for older children who were behind with their studies to still be Precadets. It was also possible for children to be demoted to a lower group as a punishment.\n\nLater in 1990 an increasingly regimented regime was put in place in which the children's activities were scheduled down to the minute. It became more like a military boot camp in which children were made to do what Miscavige Hill describes as \"gruelling drills, endless musters, exhaustive inspections, and arduous physical labor that no child should have to do.\" A rigorous system of punishments and internal surveillance was implemented to keep the children in line. Any infractions resulted in being issued a chit, a kind of written demerit, which was kept on record. The children were instructed to report on each other's activities and speak up if they saw any infractions, otherwise they would be considered an accessory to the offense and would receive the same punishment as the offender. This, Miscavige Hill says, \"made it difficult for anyone to trust anyone else\".\n\nLife for a Cadet or Precadet followed a set, and lengthy, daily routine, overseen by the children themselves in accordance with L. Ron Hubbard's instructions. They wore uniforms consisting of khaki shorts with a red t-shirt or polo shirt with the Sea Org emblem embroidered on it. They also had sweat pants, dress pants and a vest but were not permitted to wear any of their own clothes, with the exception of pajamas.\n\nThey were roused at 6.30 am and given half an hour to carry out cleaning assignments. At 7 am they were formed up into seven different Divisions, each under a Division Head, for a morning muster in front of the Commanding Officer Cadet – a fellow Cadet. The children stood to attention with the Division Heads saluting while the Master-at-Arms, another child, read out a military-style report on each Division's status. Uniforms were inspected and the personal hygiene of each child was checked, with their breath and armpits smell-tested and their hair inspected for lice.\n\nPunishments were imposed for lateness or failing inspections. Lateness was particularly harshly punished, ranging from being issued with a chit to having a bucket of ice water poured over the offender's head. Failing a berthing inspection would result at the very least in receiving a chit. An offender might alternatively be ordered to white-glove the room (cleaning it so well that a person wearing white gloves could run their hands over the surfaces without getting them dirty) or in extremis being ordered to sleep overnight in Pig's Berthing, an old mattress in a rat- and bat-infested derelict building on the site. Zoe Woodcraft, who was there at the same time as Miscavige Hill, wrote that she recalled \"two girls about nine years old who were forced to spend the night there and in the middle of the night they ran screaming and crying from the building. One of the girls afterward told me that they had been terrified by the bats and couldn't stand it anymore.\"\n\nAfter the morning muster, a period of Scientology training was followed by work on the children's assigned posts. Miscavige Hill was made a groundsman at the age of six, responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of part of the grounds, which involved physical labor. A few months later, when she was seven, she was made the Medical Liaison Officer – in effect the site doctor – with responsibility for identifying and treating any medical conditions reported by the children. She was also responsible for doling out vitamins and formulas as specified by Hubbard, which every child was required to ingest daily. No matter how sick a child was, no drugs were allowed other than antibiotics, but visits from real doctors were rare. In the entire time that Miscavige Hill was at the Int Ranch, she did not go to a doctor once despite several periods of sickness.\n\nBreakfast took place between 8.30 and 9 am. A \"table captain\" was assigned for each table to supervise the delivery of food. This followed by fifteen minutes for the children to clean the dishes and dining room, and then a second muster. Between 9.15 am and 12.45 pm, Monday through Friday, and all day Saturday, the children went to decks or labor-intensive projects. Deck time formally lasted 25 hours per week but work more realistically lasted for at least 35 hours per week for all the Precadets and Cadets, from ages six upwards. They were divided into labor units which were assigned to specific projects, many involving hard physical labor. There was some lighter work such as doing the laundry or cleaning the swimming pool, but the children were also responsible for rock hauling, weeding, planting trees, digging irrigation trenches, landscaping the site and renovating buildings. On Saturdays the children had to carry out intensive cleaning of their berthings and the buildings. The adults at the Int Ranch issued project orders and inspected the results to make sure they were satisfactory, but only rarely intervened to help out the children. The work took place in all weathers, ranging from rain and hail to temperatures upwards of 100 °F (30 °C), with only occasional five-minute breaks permitted. There was no protective equipment and the children often had to wear inappropriate clothing, such as shorts in the winter, as there was no funding for new clothes.\n\nScientology put forward a number of justifications for making the children do such work. They were told that the labor was an exchange for being able to live on the Ranch, earning their way rather than getting things for free, which was something that only criminals sought. The hard labor was said to be a way to train the children to take pride in their work, face tough situations and handle MEST (the physical world), which would make them better Scientologists. If their work or conduct was repeatedly deemed unsatisfactory they would be sent to the HMU, the Heavy MEST Work Unit, where they would be required to do the hardest forms of physical labor such as deep trench digging. Offenders were also physically isolated from the rest of the children.\n\nMiscavige Hill notes that \"we were a group of children who devoted hours of every day to doing the kind of physical labor that no child should have to do.\" The work was physically taxing:\n\nDeck time ended at 12.45 pm and was followed by clean-up and lunch. An hour later at 1.45 pm, schooling began in a range of typical academic topics, which the children taught themselves using textbooks and checksheets. There was no teacher but the children were instead overseen by a course supervisor who tested them on an E-meter to see if they had misunderstood anything. This continued until 6 pm, with a fifteen-minute break and a snack. Dinner and another clean-up took place from 6 to 6.45 pm, followed by Scientology training until 9 pm.\n\nFinally, the children were required to fill out Student Point Slips, a kind of progress report for the day, in which various activities were assigned point scores for completion. This was used for the \"management by statistics\" system implemented by Hubbard across Scientology: the points were tabulated and marked on a graph, which had to show an up-trend each day. Each day ended with an adulation period for L. Ron Hubbard, whose portrait was displayed on the wall of the course room. The children would face his picture, chant \"Hip! Hip! Hooray\", and applaud the portrait for a couple of minutes. After a short period to get ready for bed, lights-out came at 9.30 pm sharp, ending a thirteen-hour day.\n\nThe children had no free or play time, but there were three breaks to the routine during the week. On Thursday afternoons, the children were required to spend two hours tallying up their daily statistics to determine their status in accordance with the concept of Scientology ethics. Depending on the outcome of the graphing, the children would have to take particular steps to improve or maintain their statistics. If the trend was down, potentially negative consequences would follow, such as having privileges revoked or being given only rice and beans to eat. The children were also given weekly E-meter checks to determine whether they were concealing secrets or transgressions, and had to write weekly reports to their parents. On Friday evenings a graduation ceremony was held for course completions and Scientology media presentations were shown, followed by the disbursement of a five-dollar weekly allowance.\n\nContact with parents was extremely limited. Jenna Miscavige Hill's father visited once a week for twenty minutes during his lunch break, and was unusual for being one of only a few parents to do so. At 10 pm on Saturday nights, she was allowed to go to her parents' apartment to stay with them overnight. She was also given two or three days off over Christmas. Letters to and from parents were monitored to ensure that nothing negative was said. Any complaints would be treated as \"nattering\" and punished. Weekly phone calls were also permitted. The children were occasionally let out to attend special events, when Miscavige Hill says they were \"dressed up in cute outfits in front of our parents and Int crew to make it seem as though Scientology were creating a normal and joyful childhood, when in fact we were all being robbed of it.\" Zoe Woodcraft, by contrast, spent over a year there but, she says, \n\"we never went into town for a field trip; never went to a movie, shopping or anything. We were totally isolated. The only time I ever left was when I was allowed once to take a leave of absence to visit my father at Christmas.\"\n\nIn the absence of parental support, Miscavige Hill writes,\n\nSome children were sent to the Apollo Training Academy (ATA), located on Fountain Street opposite the offices of Scientology publishing house Bridge Publications. Mike Rinder, a former high-ranking Scientology official, describes it as \"a cinder block building, with a double-wide trailer in the front, six-foot fence around it with a top on it so outside people couldn't see\". It was originally run by a Scientology entity called the Cadets Estate Organization, which was later separated from the Cadet Org. Woodcraft was sent there after returning from a stay in New York in 1992, when she was nine years old, as there was no more room for children at the ranch. She later wrote that the conditions there were the worst that she ever encountered as a child:\n\nThe ATA operated as a Scientology school for about two hundred children. They studied a mixed Scientology and mainstream curriculum comprising L. Ron Hubbard's works plus math, reading and spelling. Unlike the ranch, there was no strict regimentation and the children were able to go to the beach or the park on Mondays. According to Woodcraft, they \"would often go to a park and spend the whole day there, also. They would also take us to a fifty-cent swimming pool, however a lot of the kids did not have the money to swim so we just sat around all day. If we asked the teacher for money, she said no and told us it was too bad for us we had no money.\"\n\nAlthough the location did not allow for the kind of hard outdoor labor performed at the ranch, the children were nonetheless put to work cleaning the building. Woodcraft recalled being assigned to an activity they called \"chicken picking\" the carpet. She wrote:\n\nThere were also problems with the staff at the ATA. Saina Kamula, a former member of the Sea Org, has said that an older member of staff at the ATA repeatedly sexually abused her during her stay there in the 1990s. When she reported the abuse to a teacher, she says, she was punished for being \"counter-intention\" – acting against the interests of Scientology. The abuser was never punished and remained an \"active and respected member of the Church\" as of August 2017.\n\nDuring the 1990s a Cadet Org facility operated near Scientology's \"Mecca\", the city of Clearwater, Florida. It was situated in a former Quality Inn, which the Scientologists called the QI, at 16432 U.S. Highway 19 in Largo, Florida. Woodcraft's entire family of five was initially housed there in 1986 in a single room which was \"very small, approximately 12' by 20'. It was one room and one bath; very shabby, infested with cockroaches and smelling of mold. All five of us were in this room so it was very cramped and nearly unlivable.\" She returned to the QI for a while in 1993 and then for a longer stay from 1994 to 2000, living in a Cadet Org dorm in the building. When 12-year-old Scientology cadet Kristi Erlich flew from Los Angeles to visit her 13-year-old sister Beth at the QI, her first reaction to the sight of her room was one of horror: \"Oh my god, I couldn't even believe that Beth lived in a place like that. There were bugs everywhere... We were always scared of having bugs run across our feet and face and stuff while we were sleeping.\"\n\nAfter escaping from Scientology at the end of 2000, Woodcraft wrote a detailed account of life at the QI. She described it as \"overall depressing and dreary\", and the Cadets and Precadets were kept \"always on a boring and strict schedule.\" The Precadets were never allowed to leave the premises, rarely went on outings and could only play in the parking lot. Woodcraft worked every afternoon and all day on Sundays, which was designated as \"renos\" (renovations) day where the children worked to repair and refurbish the building. Saturday afternoons could also be designated as \"renos\", after parental visits earlier in the day. On one \"reno\" assignment, she was told to demolish the walls of a room in the QI:\n\nOn Saturday nights the children could watch a movie, selected by the building's governess. Woodcraft recalled that for a while, the governess \"was in love with a move called \"White Knight\" and we had to watch that movie over and over again for weeks. This was not a children's movie and it was unbelievably boring.\"\n\nStrict censorship was applied to the children's listening and reading materials. Woodcraft wrote:\n\nWoodcraft rose through the ranks and took on various jobs, \"one of which was to make sure all the\npictures of Ron Hubbard looked nice, so I was always cleaning cockroach feces out of the frames and the cardboard backing.\" In another post, as the Hubbard Communications Office Area Secretary (HAS) and Director of Inspections and Reports, she managed disciplinary affairs: \"I had to read the\n\"overt write ups\" of the other cadets. This would include the reports written up about masturbation and other sexual activity between the cadets. I also participated in courts of ethics and committees of evidence for children. These are disciplinary actions per church policies.\"\n\nWhen she was eleven, she was promoted to the rank of Cadet. This enabled her to move to better accommodation within the building and she was given more freedom of movement. If their statistics were on a rising trend they were allowed to go bowling (always in pairs; they were never allowed to go by themselves) and if they were awarded \"Cadet of the Week\" status they were given ice cream.\n\nShe moved on to the Cadet Technical Training Corps at age twelve or thirteen, studying the works of L. Ron Hubbard for eleven hours a day from Mondays to Saturdays. Conventional schooling was limited to ten hours on Sunday. There was little free time and no days off other than the Scientology \"holiday\" of Sea Org Day, plus Christmas Day. On one occasion she was allowed to go on a two-week trip. She left the Cadet Org when she was fourteen to join the Sea Org proper, and fled Scientology two years later.\n\nThe QI facility came to the attention of the Pinellas County police, who visited it. According to the county Sheriff, Greg Tita, the police \"determined that there were signs of child neglect and abuse. They wrote up a report and the case was forwarded to the juvenile office. However, Scientology lodged a complaint against the publication of the report in the press and won. It is still sealed today. I don't think that it has to do with a dispute over the investigation, they just wanted to make sure no information got to the public.\" According to Tita, runaway cadets were sent by the church to \"the \nchildren's prison camp\", the Rehabilitation Project Force.\n\nA Cadet Org facility existed at Stonelands, a mansion located in the southern English county of West Sussex near the village of West Hoathly. It housed the children of Sea Org members working at Scientology's UK headquarters a few miles away at Saint Hill Manor in East Sussex. \nClaire Headley was four years old when she was placed there as one of about forty Scientologist children, with a single adult female Scientologist looking after all of them. Her mother, a single parent, worked at Saint Hill Manor but was allowed very little time to interact with her daughter: an hour a day at dinnertime and three hours on Saturdays. Children were allowed to join the church's permanent staff at the age of eight, but there was no provision for schooling at the facility. Headley later recalled:\n\nHeadley says that, like cadets in a number of other Cadet Org facilities, she experienced various forms of abuse: \"My experiences were by no means extreme. Physical and verbal abuse, sexual abuse, molestation and extreme neglect were very common experiences for cadets. I’ve often found it difficult to share my experiences, because I resent the idea of being considered a science project. At age 7, an older male staff member tried to lure my friend and I to his office to molest us. I refused to go with him and urged my friend not to go with him. My friend chose to go and he molested her. This was never reported to the police.\" Another former Cadet Org member, Melissa Paris, says that the Sea Org governesses regularly hit the children, who also ganged up on each other. On one occasion, she writes, she was thrown down the stairs by one governess, which led to a rare intervention from her father.\n\nParis lived at Stonelands between the ages of four and twelve. She recalled that her day started around 7 am, when \"we'd muster – we'd all stand in a line, according to divisions. Then we had to breakfast on time, because if you missed it, you didn't eat. Then some would go to Saint Hill and do their jobs. Others would stay at Stonelands and had to clean the house. There wasn't much free time, maybe an hour or two. When I was younger there had been something called Family Time, an hour or two in the evening when you saw your parents\". Family Time was abolished when she was about six or seven, meaning that she no longer saw her father during the day.\n\nAccording to Paris, the mansion was in a run-down state and she experienced grim conditions. Her sister Valeska, who was also at Stonelands, says that \"we had no toilet paper 90 percent of the time in the Cadet Org. We either had to use pages from books in the library to wipe ourselves or our hands and wipe it on the wall. I know it's gross but it's true. The toilet had shit all over the wall.\" Not surprisingly, personal hygiene suffered: \"We were Stonelands kids. Dirty. We had lice.\"\n\nConditions at Stonelands were still poor a decade later. In 1993, Mid-Sussex District Council prosecuted the Church of Scientology for breaches of fire safety regulations after another Scientology property in the area burned down. Although the Church had declared that 50 people were living there, an internal Scientology document inspection listed more than 190 residents. At least 24 children were living in dormitories of which a Scientology official noted, \"Smell[s] of wet beds and bleach ... smell of wet beds needs to be handled.\"\n\nIn 1982, former Scientologist Scott Mayer testified in a public hearing in Clearwater, Florida that he had been responsible for maintaining a Cadet Org facility in Mexico for the children of Los Angeles-based Scientologists. They were kept there rather than in the United States as it was said to be cheaper. According to Mayer, \"Children were routinely transported from Los Angeles to the Mexican base and berthed and housed there...so that their mothers and fathers could get on with their business within the Church.\" However, the Mexican base was unsafe: it was raided at night by thieves who would come in and steal items from the property. Mayer was ordered to procure a rifle with an infrared sniper scope to deal with the thieves. However, it was not needed as the woman who ran the base shot one of the bandits and deterred them from returning.\n\nThe physical conditions at the base were also extremely hazardous. The property was thickly covered with brush, which grew right up to the ranch house, and there were poisonous scorpions, snakes and spiders in the area. No money or personnel were initially available to deal with these problems. Mayer eventually resolved the situation by taking a jar of scorpions to his superior and telling him that a child's death would cause bad public relations for Scientology.\n\nSea Org members living in Australia sent children to a Cadet Org facility located in a Sydney townhouse in the 1990s. Scarlett Hanna, who lived there for several years, described it as \"an incredibly lonely childhood. I had no-one to talk to or to look after to me or to ask me how I was after school or, you know, any of those things that most of us take for granted.\" She said that she and the other children did not receive adequate food or medical care.\n\nAccording to Hanna, the Sea Org successfully managed to conceal the children's living conditions from the city's Community Services department when the facility was inspected on two occasions. She said that the furniture was dismantled and the children were sent out for the day to make it appear that the facility was not overcrowded.\n\nThe management of its child members was a long-running source of difficulties for the Church of Scientology. In 1974, only a year after Hubbard announced the creation of the Cadet Org, it was sued for running an illegal child care facility and was put on probation. Five years later, it had a narrow escape when the Los Angeles County authorities discovered that the church was running another illegal child care facility in the Cadet Org's building on Fountain Avenue, Los Angeles. The church was able to escape indictment after being tipped off that a raid was imminent and moved the children into another, legally compliant, building.\n\nSerious problems nonetheless persisted in Los Angeles. An \"Aides Order\" published internally by the Sea Org in August 1981 reported that in the Los Angeles-based Pacific Area Command alone, there were 339 children aged between newborn and 18 in the PAC Sea Org organizations. (In 1974 there had only been 20 parents in the entire PAC Sea Org.) The way they were being managed was causing numerous problems. The minute noted that they were behind their grade level in the public school system and there were numerous reports of unethical and criminal misbehavior by Sea Org children, including theft and sexual misconduct. It stated: \"Due to the recent filthy conditions of the [Cadet Estates Organization] and the criminal behavior of the children the area has become a PR and Legal threat to the Church ... the scene is wildly off the rails and the scene has become very degraded. PAC SO children instead of becoming valuable personnel assets are in many cases becoming criminals.\"\n\nA series of \"missions\" by Scientology management through the 1970s attempted to resolve these problems but failed, which the 1981 Aides Order attributed to a failure to follow L. Ron Hubbard's dictates. For instance, parents and the children's adult supervisors caused problems \"by treating them as \"kids\" rather than SO members. This was often covert such as parents insisting that their cadet go on libs [spend time] with them even though the cadet's stats were down and he hadn't earned a libs, resulting in degrade of the cadet's post\". The order advised that parents should be \"re-educated\" to regard their children as \"resources and real SO members.\" It commented that \"since the destructive cultural pattern of handling children is deeply ingrained in the US this would need to be stripped off as false data\" and concluded that the parents \"do not view children as a [Present Time] resource worth investing a lot of time or effort in.\"\n\nFurther problems were caused by the quality of the adult personnel assigned to look after the cadets. The Aides Order reported that the Commanding Officer of the Cadet Org \"was criminal and sadistic to other Cadets. He was removed mid 77 after he handcuffed another Cadet to an electrical outlet and nearly electrocuted him.\" A subsequent investigation found that the Cadet Estates Organization \"also had a large number of DBs [Degraded Beings], criminals and perverts posted in it. Some of these would slap the cadets around and treat them like \"kids\".\" This was due at least in part to the fact that the Sea Org had \"continually put their unwanted or reject staff\" into looking after children. To resolve these problems, the Aides Order proposed a series of reforms which would improve the management of the Cadet Org and make the Cadet Estates Org, which looked after their facilities, an entirely separate body exclusively managed by adults. Sea Org members with a history of sexual misconduct were to be removed from Cadet Org and Cadet Estates Org staff.\n\nHowever, the problems with pedophilia and poor living conditions evidently persisted, as a December 1989 minute from the Commanding Officer of the Cadet Estates Organization (CO CEO) to the Commanding Officer of the Commodore's Messenger Organization Pacific Area Command (CO CMO PAC) made clear: \"The school is a disgrace, with could [sic] food fed to the children as there is no way to keep it hot, 90% of all children under grade level, etc.\" A Sea Org member who was a qualified teacher was removed from his post due to his admission that he was feeling sexual urges towards the children. The teacher's confession was quoted in the minute:\n\nIn the end, the Cadet Org was shut down entirely. The first step was taken in 1979 when Sea Org members in Los Angeles were forbidden to have children, and people with children were mostly forbidden to join the Sea Org. An Executive Directive was issued which stated:\n\nAs a Church website puts it, \"by 1986 it had become apparent that the duties of a member of the Sea Organization were not compatible with raising children.\" A new Sea Org-wide directive was issued in September 1986 which prohibited Sea Org members from having children as the Sea Org did not have the time, money or resources to look after them. Having children was deemed to undermine the purpose and production of Sea Org members. If they disobeyed the Flag Order they would be sent to a distantly located Scientology organization of the Class V level (a medium-level Scientology organization). They could return to the Sea Org once the unauthorized child was six years old. However, Sea Org members continued having children so the new policy was reissued and strengthened in another Flag Order of April 3, 1991. The penalty for having a child was increased; violators would now be sent to \"a small non-expanding Class IV org\".\n\nMary Tabayoyon, who was a Sea Org member for 21 years, wrote that this was regarded as a severe punishment: \"In a failing Class IV Org an exiled Sea Org member would have to fend for himself or herself and try and raise a child on the nominal compensation provided to the staff of a failing Class IV Org. In addition, the exiled Sea Org members would be obligated to revive the failing Org or suffer more Ethics [disciplinary] conditions.\" In addition, any Sea Org colleagues who knew about an unauthorized child or pregnancy but did not take action against the parents would be punished. The result of the new rules was that many female Sea Org members who were desperate to remain in the Sea Org after getting pregnant had abortions instead, allegedly under the pressure of threatened disciplinary action.\n\nAs a result of the new rules, the Cadet Org was no longer required and was dissolved in the early 2000s.\n"}
{"id": "912397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=912397", "title": "Ceremonial drum", "text": "Ceremonial drum\n\nCeremonial drums are used in a ritual context by indigenous peoples around the world, often accompanied by singing or chanting.\n\nIn the circumpolar regions the drums have been classified by traits such as the knob, frame design, size, membrane motifs, ornaments, etc. There are therefore two main groups of drums: those with internal and those with external knobs. Drums with internal knobs are found amongst the Tjuktjer in Asia and among North American Inuit. Drums with external knobs are more widespread and are divided into four types:\n\nThe historical Saami drum, sometimes termed rune drum, belonged to the South Siberian kind, Sajano-Yeniseic subtype. (Those are, however, very similar to the Sjoric subtypes.) The Sami word for drum is 'goavddis', 'goabdes ' or 'gievrie' and the Altaic term is 'komus'. The Sami drum-stick term is 'bállin'; the Altaic term is 'orba'. \n\n"}
{"id": "3433289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3433289", "title": "Christina Ebner", "text": "Christina Ebner\n\nSister Christina Ebner, O.P. (also Christine), (26 March 1277 – 27 December 1356) was a German Dominican nun, writer and mystic.\n\nEbner was born in the Imperial City of Nuremberg, the child of the patrician Seyfried Ebner and his wife, Elizabeth Kuhdorf. In 1289, at the age of twelve, she entered the Monastery of St. John the Baptist in Engelthal, which was a community of nuns of the Dominican Second Order outside the city, in the Burgraviate of Nuremberg. Founded as a beguinage some fifty years earlier, over the next hundred years this monastery was to become a much-renowned center of spirituality and learning. According to some, it might very well have been the foremost center of mystical life during the early fourteenth century in Germany, if not all of Europe.\n\nLess than a year later after her admission, Christina fell gravely ill. This affliction would reappear up to three times a year for the next decade. Also, later, she frequently suffered from various illnesses. About this time, she began experiencing frequent religious visions, which her confessor, Friar Conrad of Füssen, O.P., encouraged her to write down. So she began writing her first book, \"Leben und Offenbarungen\" (\" Life and Revelations\") in 1317. She continued to work on it at least until 1324. In 1338, she began a correspondence with the secular priest Henry of Nördlingen, who was an enthusiastic propagator of mystic spirituality and literature. Through him, she started a correspondence with the Blessed Margareta Ebner, who was also a Dominican nun actively involved in the spiritual movement of the period; but Margareta was no relative of Christina's in spite of the same family name \"Ebner\".\n\nAround 1340, Christina started compiling the \"Book of Sisters\" (\"Schwesternbuch\"), a record of the mystical visions and life experiences of the other nuns in her monastery, called \"Von der genaden uberlast\" (\"Of the Burden of Grace\"). It can be attributed to Ebner, based on a 1451 manuscript.\n\nBetween 1344 and 1352, she wrote a second book of \"Revelations\" (\"Offenbarungen\"). In it, she deals with historical and political events of the time such as the riots at Nuremberg in 1348; the earthquake of the same year; the outbreak of the Black Death; the Flagellants' processions of 1349; and the long quarrel between the Holy Roman Emperor Louis IV and the Holy See. Christina does not limit herself to the role of a bystander. Instead, she takes a deep interest in the events, develops her own opinions about them and even actively tries to influence their course. By that time, her reputation had spread widely through Northern Europe. In 1350, the Emperor Charles IV himself came to visit her at the monastery, seeking her guidance and prayers.\n\nIn 1351 she was finally visited for the first time by her long-time confidant, Henry of Nördlingen, who spent three weeks as a visitor to the monastery. At that time he gave her a copy of Mechthild's of Magdeburg mystic work \"Das fließende Licht der Gottheit\" (\"The Flowing Light of the Godhead\"), which is found reflected in her own later works and in those of the other nuns in the community.\n\nEbner died in her monastery at Engelthal on 27 December 1356, in her 67th year of monastic life.\n\n\n\"This article incorporates text from the public domain \"Catholic Encyclopedia\".\"\n\n"}
{"id": "42234695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42234695", "title": "Diocese of Shirak", "text": "Diocese of Shirak\n\nDiocese of Shirak ( \"Shiraki t'em\"), is one of the dioceses of the Armenian Apostolic Church covering the northern and middle parts of the Shirak Province of Armenia. It almost covers 2/3rds of the province, as the southern towns of Artik, Maralik, and their surrounding villages are excluded.\n\nThe diocese was officially founded on August 31, 1920, upon a kontakion issued by Catholicos George V. The seat of the diocese is the Cathedral of the Holy Mother of God in Gyumri. The prelacy building is located on Rizhkov street near the cathedral, at the centre of Gyumri.\n\nIn the final days of the First Republic of Armenia, the diocese was established upon a \"kontakion\" issued by Catholicos George V on August 31, after being separated from the Araratian Pontifical Diocese. \n\nThe prelacy building of the Diocese of Shirak is located on Varpetats Street of Gyumri, near the Vartanants Square. It was designed by Hovhannes Katchaznouni and built at the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nOn December 2, 2012, the southern town of Artik and the surrounding 23 villages were separated from the Diocese of Shirak to form the newly established Diocese of Artik.\n\nCurrently, the diocese has 8 active churches under its jurisdiction in the city of Gyumri, along with many other churches in the Shirak Province.\n"}
{"id": "4763362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4763362", "title": "Direct revelation", "text": "Direct revelation\n\nDirect revelation is a term used by some Christian churches to express their belief in a communication from God to a person, by words, impression, visions, dreams or actual appearance. Direct revelation is believed to be an open communication between God and man, or the Holy Spirit and man, without any other exterior (secondary) means. Direct revelation from evil spirits can also occur.\n\nExamples of this is seen in God communicating the Ten Commandments to Moses on Mt. Sinai (Exodus 34:4); or the devil communicating knowledge to Jesus Christ during his temptation in the wilderness (Luke 4:1-12) or the appearance of an angel to the wife of Manoah telling her that she shall bear Samson (Judges 13:2). Direct revelation is classified as special revelation, but the word \"direct\" has come to make this type of revelation distinct.\n\nPentecostal and Charismatic Christianity has always maintained that God directly speaks today through direct means such as dreams, visions, voices, impressions, and signs (or meaningful coincidences). While these Christians have emphasized speaking in tongues or even praying for healing, for the longest time Charismatics have shied away from expressing the gift of prophecywhich is the cause of these direct spiritual experiences. The reason for this is that Christian prophets in history have often come into conflict with the pastors and religious authorities of the church hierarchy. Throughout church history, Christian prophets have usually been mystics or people that practiced divine contemplation or soaking prayer.\n\nVarious Christian groups throughout church history could be labeled \"prophetic\", because they have welcomed the gift of prophecy in their church meetings and lives: the Montanists, the Desert Fathers, various orders of Catholic monasticism such as the Dominicans and the Discalced Carmelites, the Waldensians, the Anabaptists, the Jansenists, the Quietists, the Quakers, the French prophets, various people in the Great Awakening and Second Great Awakening, the Irvingites, individuals in the Holiness movement, the early Pentecostal movement, the Latter Rain revival, the Charismatic movement, the Jesus movement, the Vineyard; and especially the Kansas City prophets, the Toronto Blessing movement, and Bethel Church in Redding, California.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) teaches that God restored direct revelation as recently as the nineteenth century by way of Joseph Smith and the First Vision. Since then, direct revelation has been the teaching and practice of the LDS Church. It is the belief of the Latter-day Saints that direct revelation is available to all mankind who diligently seek God with sincerity, and real intent. \"Every devoted, obedient and righteous person on the earth has and does receive revelation from God.\"\n\nAccording to the LDS Church, there are two basic types of direct revelation, \"public\" and \"personal\". Public revelation refers to the revelation of God’s will to his chosen prophets, seers, and revelators. These revelations are to guide the church, its functions, direction, and doctrinal stance. \"These public revelations usually illuminate scriptural passages that are doctrinal rather than those that are descriptive or directive.\"\n\nPersonal or private revelations pertains to that person's life. A person can receive personal revelation from God as would God's prophet, but the difference lies in its purpose. This revelation is to edify, enlighten and fill the soul of that person and assist them in their life, both in a general sense and a religious or spiritual sense. A person can receive private revelation for him/herself or for their immediate family, but will not receive this revelation for others outside their family or for the church. This revelation is considered an integral part of the life of the faithful.\n\nSometimes personal revelation has an effect upon nations or the world, but in a more indirect manner. In this sense God inspires certain people in history to impart knowledge and moral truths. Basically, God \"enlightens\" the \"works\" of certain people that have influence or will have influence upon the world. God apparently enlightened \"great religious leaders of the world such as Muhammad, Confucius, and the Reformers, as well as philosophers including Socrates, Plato, and others. This was to bring whole nations to a higher level of understanding.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58832227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58832227", "title": "Entry of women to Sabarimala Ayyappa Temple", "text": "Entry of women to Sabarimala Ayyappa Temple\n\nSabarimala is a Hindu Temple in Kerala, India where women pilgrims of menstruating age (ages 10 to 50) were not legally allowed to enter between 1991 and 2018. In September 2018, a landmark judgement by the Supreme Court of India ruled that all pilgrims regardless of gender, including women in the menstruating age group, should be allowed entrance to Sabarimala. The Constitution bench of the Supreme Court held that \"any exception placed on women because of biological differences violates the Constitution\" - that the ban violates the right to equality under Article 14, and freedom of religion under Article 25. This verdict led to protests by a section of believers who oppose the verdict. Several women attempted to enter Sabarimala despite threats of physical assault against them but failed to reach the \"sanctum sanctorum\".\n\nAccording to legends, Lord Ayyappan, the deity of Sabarimala is celibate. When he defeated the evil demoness \"Mahushasuri\", she turned into a beautiful young woman. She had actually been cursed to live the life of a demoness until the child born out of the union of Lord Shiva and Vishnu defeated her in a battle. Ayyappan, being the abandoned son of Siva and Mohini (an incarnation of Vishnu), could set her free after defeating her in the battle. After the battle, the young woman proposed to Ayyappan for marriage, but he refused her saying that he had been ordained to go to the forest, live the life of a brahmachari and answer the prayers of devotees. However, the young woman was persistent, so Ayyappan promised to marry her the day \"kanni-swamis\" (new devotees) would stop visiting him at Sabarimala. Unfortunately for the woman, Sabarimala was visited by kanni-swamis every year, and she was not able to marry Ayyappan. The woman is worshiped as goddess \"Malikappurathamma\" at a neighbouring temple.\n\nPrior to 1991 when the Kerala High Court forbade the entry of women to Sabarimala, several women had visited the temple sporadically, although mostly for non-religious reasons. There are records of women pilgrims visiting the temple to conduct the first rice-feeding ceremony of their children (Chottoonu) at the temple premises. On May 13, 1940, even the Maharani of Tranvancore is recorded to have visited the temple. In 1986, when young actresses Jayashree, Sudha Chandran, Anu, Vadivukkarasi and Manorama danced near the deity at the \"pathinettam padi\" (18 steps) for the Tamil movie named \"Nambinar Keduvathillai\", a fine of Rs. 1000 each was imposed on the actresses and the director of the movie. The Dewaswom Board, the board in charge of the maintenance of the temple and premises was also fined Rs. 7500, because it had given the director permission to film at Sabarimala. Former Karnataka minister Jayamala has also claimed to have entered Sabarimala and touched the idol in 1986.\n\nIn 1990, the rice feeding ceremony of the granddaughter of the former Dewaswom commissioner was held at Sabarimala in the presence of women relatives. Following a court case in connection with this event, the high court of Kerala prohibited the entry of women between 10 and 50 years of age to Sabarimala. In 1995, the then district collector Valsala Kumari visited Sabarimala to get firsthand information about the conditions at the temple in connection with her official duties. In the same year, the local press reported the story of two young women, possibly wives of VIPs, who entered the shrine despite police vigilance. In January 2018, temple authorities made it mandatory for female devotees to furnish proof of their age when visiting Sabarimala.\n\nIn 1990, S Mahendran started a petition, alleging that young women were visiting Sabarimala. The verdict on the petition came in 1991 where Justices K. Paripoornan and K. Balanarayana Marar of the Kerala High Court banned entry of women between ages 10 and 50 from offering worship at Sabarimala, stating that such restriction was in accordance with the usage prevalent from time immemorial. In addition, the High court directed the Government of Kerala to use the police force to enforce the order to ban entry of women to the temple. The court observed thus:\n\nIn 2006, six women, members of the Indian Young Lawyers' Association, petitioned the Supreme Court of India to lift the ban against women between the ages of 10 and 50 entering the Sabarimala temple. They argued that the practice was a violation of their constitional rights and questioned the validity of provisions in the Kerala Hindu Places of Public Worship (Authorisation of Entry) Rules act of 1965 which supported it.\n\nIn September 2018 the Supreme Court of India ruled that women of all age groups can enter Sabarimala temple. The court ruled thus: \nThe verdict was passed with a 4-1 majority where Chief Justice Dipak Misra, and Justices A. M. Khanwilkar, R. F. Nariman and D. Y. Chandrachud favoured permitting women to enter the temple, while Justice Indu Malhotra dissented. Indu Malhotra said that every individual should be allowed to practice their faith irrespective of whether the practice is rational or logical. The Supreme Court observed that the custom of barring women was in violation of Article 25 (Clause 1) and Rule 3(b) of Kerala Hindu Places of Worship. The petition that led to this verdict was filed by the Indian Young Lawyers Association.\n\nSome women choose to not enter Sabarimala believing that it would be an insult to Malikappurathamma's love and sacrifice. Others believe that Ayyappan himself placed restrictions on women entering the temple because he wanted to be celibate, and the presence of women of reproductive age group would distract him from this cause. Some argue that menstruating women could instead go to Attukal pongala, a temple festival also known as 'women's Sabarimala', instead of wanting to go to Sabarimala. Some believe in the taboo that menstruation is impure (thereby making women of menstruating age also impure), and that it is a sin to visit a Hindu god while they are impure. Others simply cite that age-old traditions should be continued to be practiced, regardless of their implications. Some people have pointed out the practical difficulties for women in climbing Sabarimala. The Sabarimala temple is situated on the top of a hill surrounded by mountains and dense forests, which some regard as physically challenging to women to navigate. An official of Sabarimala has pointed out that there will be lack of adequate sanitation facilities for women, thus making their journey difficult. Hospital facilities are also sparse and women could be harassed on their way up the Sabarimala mountain. Some argue that women will 'defile temple premises', and 'distract' the pilgrims who follow a 41-day period of strict abstinence from sex. One lawyer has argued that the deity Ayyappan should be considered as a person, and should be given the Constitutional right to privacy under Article 21, thus banning women of menstruating age from visiting him per his will. A US based cardiologist pointed out that menstruating women are barred from visiting temples because it can lead to endometriosis, but her arguments were later dismissed as being pseudoscientific. The Travancore Dewaswom Board president said that allowing women to the temple will lead to 'immoral activities' and turn the place into 'a spot for sex tourism like Thailand'.\n\nThose in favour of allowing women entry to Sabarimala argue that menstruation is not impure, and that women have equal right to enter the temple. Some pointed out that women are allowed to enter other temples of Ayyappan, so that the exception for Sabarimala is unusual and inconsistent. A frequent criticism is that claims that women are impure, based on the physiological process of menstruation, is gender discrimination.\n\nAccording to the historian, Rajan Gurukkal, there is \"neither ritual sanctity nor scientific justification\" for the argument of menstrual pollution. He notes that the shrine was originally a \"cult spot\" for a tribal deity, Ayyanar of local forest dwellers before it became a place of worship for Ayyappa in the 15th century. Unlike traditional Hindu beliefs that menstruation is impure, the tribals considered it to be auspicious and a symbol of fertility. They thronged to the temple along with their women and children of all ages until the 1960s. Gurukkal also notes that there is documented evidence of young savarna women making their way into the temple till the 1980s.\n\nThe chief minister of Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayan, said that his party (LDF) has always stood for gender equality and therefore will provide facilities and protection for women pilgrims to Sabarimala.\n\nIn October, when Sabarimala was opened for pilgrims for the first time since the Supreme Court verdict, protests were staged at the Nilakkal and Pamba base camps. Many women journalists were assaulted by the protesters and Police had to resort to a lathi charge to disperse them. The protesters forced a 40-year old woman from Andhra Pradesh to stop her journey to Sabarimala at Pamba. Suhasini Raj, a journalist working for New York Times was also forced to return after she was blocked by protesters near Marakkoottam.\n\nTwo women of menstruating age attempted to enter the temple on 19 October 2018 but were blocked by protesters about 100 metres away from the sanctum sanctorum. They returned after the priest warned that he would close the sanctum sanctorum if they were to attempt to climb the 18 sacred steps leading to the deity. A 46-year old woman who claimed that \"her body was full of divine power from Ayyappa motivating her to climb Sabarimala\" was asked to return after the police denied her protection. On 20 October 2018, one woman journalist and the president of Kerala Dalit Mahila Federation also had to return without reaching the deity due to protests.\n\nBindu Thankam Kalyani, a dalit activist was attacked at various places by mobs on her way to Sabarimala even though she was accompanied by police and decided to return after reaching Pamba. She lost her job, was forced to leave her home and is now living in an undisclosed location under police protection fearing threats for her life from those who are against allowing women entry to Sabarimala.\n\nTrupti Desai, women's rights activist and founder of Bhumata Brigade, was blocked by protesters at Cochin International Airport on 16 November 2018, while on her journey to Sabarimala. She decided to return after getting stranded inside the airport for more than 14 hours and vowed to come back again.\n\nThe Bharatiya Janata Party called for a hartal in Kerala state to deter women between the age of 10 and 50 from worshipping at Sabarimala. The Indian National Congress also launched a protest and demanded a review petition against the Supreme Court's verdict. The Chief Minister of Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayan, held “RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) driven upper caste religious fanatics” responsible for the violent agitation to undermine the universal right of women of all ages to worship at Sabarimala. Rahul Easwar, a member of the family of Sabarimala priests and the leader of Ayyappa Dharma Sena, was arrested for inciting violence and rioting near the Sabarimala temple complex. He was denied bail on the grounds that he could return to Sabarimala to incite further trouble. Malayalam actor Kollam Thulasi said that women who enter Sabarimala temple should be ripped in half. An FIR was registered against him for his deliberate act to outrage the religious feelings and for challenging the dignity of women.\n\nOver 3000 people were arrested and around 500 cases were registered at various police stations across Kerala in relation with the protests including hartal related violence, since the Supreme court verdict came.\n\nAnticipating protests, IPC Section 144 was declared at Sannidhanam, Pamba, Nilakkal and Elavunkal when the temple reopened for the 41 day long Mandalam-Makaravilakku pilgrim season in November 2018. Around 70 people were arrested for defying prohibitory orders and protesting near the main temple, also K. Surendran, state secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party and K P Sasikala, leader of Hindu Aikya Vedi were taken into preventive detention while on their journey to the temple. The human rights commission of Kerala has called it, \"gross violation of human rights of Sabarimala devotees\". On November 21, Thiruvananthapuram City Police Commissioner, P Prakash threatened NRIs who are using social media to express their displeasure of the state interfereing in temple practices by \"provocative voice notes videos and photos, and social media posts\" of \"getting their passports cancelled, and forcing to return to India.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31193149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31193149", "title": "Francesca Stavrakopoulou", "text": "Francesca Stavrakopoulou\n\nFrancesca Stavrakopoulou (; born 3 October 1975) is a British theologian and broadcaster. She is currently Professor of Hebrew Bible and Ancient Religion at the University of Exeter and Head of its Department of Theology and Religion. The main focus of her research is on the Hebrew Bible, and on Israelite and Judahite history and religion. \n\nShe also popularises biblical historical subjects as a TV presenter on BBC2 and Channel 4. She comments on the Historicity of the Bible and Hebrew Bible (Old Testament) narratives, the role of women in the Abrahamic religions and the development of the Biblical texts. Stavrakopoulou is a self-described atheist.\n\nFrancesca Stavrakopoulou was born on 3 October 1975 in suburban Bromley, in greater London, to an English mother and a Greek father. Stavrakopoulou was brought up in no particular religion and is an atheist.\n\nStavrakopoulou was awarded a D.Phil. in theology by the University of Oxford. Her dissertation, which examined the creation of an imagined past within the Hebrew Bible, was subsequently published as \"King Manasseh and Child Sacrifice: Biblical Distortions of Historical Realities\".\n\nStavrakopoulou filled subsequent teaching and research positions at Oxford at Worcester College, as a Junior Research Fellow and as a Career Development Fellow in the Faculty of Theology, departing Oxford in 2005.\n\nStavrakopoulou began a position in Hebrew Bible and Ancient Religion in the University of Exeter's Department of Theology and Religion in 2005, rising to the level of senior lecturer by March 2011. She currently serves as Head of Theology and Religion.\n\nIn 2011, Stavrakopoulou was secretary of the British-based Society for Old Testament Study in 2011, and member of the European Association of Biblical Studies and of the US-based Society of Biblical Literature.\n\nStavrakopoulou has appeared on several occasions in BBC One's programme featuring \"moral, ethical and religious debates,\" \"The Big Questions\" hosted by Nicky Campbell; appearances include on the topics \"Is the Bible still relevant?\",\n\nStavrakopoulou has served as writer and presenter for a number of media productions relating to her scholarly interests. She contributed to Channel 4's series \"The Bible: A History\" (2010), regarding the historicity of Moses. Her first primetime presentation was a three-part television series for the BBC2 \"The Bible's Buried Secrets\" (2011; not to be confused with NOVA's 2008 programme of the same name).\n\nThese popular presentations, while being widely presented (e.g., the BBC2 production has been appearing in the U.S. as an offering of PBS stations), have met with mixed and some skeptical reviews, both in the U.K. popular press, and more broadly.\n\nFr. Alexander Lucie-Smith, consulting editor of \"The Catholic Herald\" and theologian, said that the BBC's \"…Buried Secrets\" series \"is the sort of television programme that theologians ought to cherish…\". He complained that in the second episode of the production, which addresses the origins of monotheism, that \"…in [its] closing moments… scholarship seemed to be given up in favour of… mere opinion\"; he took issue with Stavrakopoulou's suggestion that contemporary Christianity's views of Mary, saints, and angels were a holdover from the polytheistic religions, and that monotheism's presentation of God as exclusively male led to the marginalisation and repression of women. He argues that the polytheistic Greeks and Romans religions featured female deities, but the cultures themselves denied females all political rights.\n\nThe main focus of Stavrakopoulou's research is on the Hebrew bible, and on Israelite and Judahite history and religion. She describes herself as \"an atheist with huge respect for religion\" and regards her work as \"a branch of history like any other.\" Stavrakopoulou has argued in popular venues, based on her research, the current academic consensus that important figures in the Hebrew bible were not historical figures as represented in that text. She has further stated that she believes \"very little, probably\" of the Hebrew bible is historical fact, based on the arguments that ancient writers had an understanding of \"fact\" and \"fiction\" very different from a modern understanding, and that the Hebrew bible \"wasn't written to be a factual account of the past\"; she concludes, saying she does not believe accounts of Moses and King David in the Hebrew bible to be factual, and that \"as an historian of the bible, I think there is very little that is factual.\"\n\nJohn Barton, Oriel & Laing Professor of Interpretation [of biblical texts] at the University of Oxford, in his \"Ethics in Ancient Israel\", comments thus on the conclusions and general disputes in one area that Stavrakopoulou is writing as theologian and historian:\n\nChristopher B. Hays notes that Stavrakopoulou doubts any reform to royal burial practices under Hezekiah, contrary to the view of Nadav Na'aman \"that the place of the… kings' burials moved for religious reasons… as a part of Hezekiah's reform program…\".\n\n\nStavrakopoulou's dissertation-based monograph, and her subsequent authored book-length publications are:\n\n\nStavrakopoulou's major journal articles and her authored book chapters include:\n\n"}
{"id": "26865706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26865706", "title": "Ghosts in Chinese culture", "text": "Ghosts in Chinese culture\n\nChinese folklore features a rich variety of ghosts, monsters, and other supernatural creatures. According to traditional beliefs a ghost is the spirit form of a person who has died. Ghosts are typically malevolent and will cause harm to the living if provoked. Many Chinese folk beliefs about ghosts have been adopted into the mythologies and folklore of neighboring East Asian cultures, notably Japan, Korea, and Vietnam. Beliefs about ghosts are closely associated with Chinese ancestor worship, where much have been incorporated into Buddhism and in turn influenced and created uniquely Chinese Buddhist beliefs about the supernatural.\n\nTraditionally, the Chinese believed that it was possible to contact the spirits of deceased relatives and ancestors through a medium. It was believed that the spirits of the deceased can help them if they were properly respected and rewarded. The annual Hungry Ghost Festival, celebrated in China (including Taiwan province, Hong Kong and Macao Special Administrative Regions), Malaysia, Singapore, and elsewhere in the Chinese diaspora, is dedicated to performing rituals to honor and remember the spirits of the dead. On this day ghosts and other supernatural creatures come out from the Underworld and move among the living. Families prepare food and other offerings and place them on a shrine dedicated to deceased relatives. Incense and paper money are burned and other rituals are performed in hopes that the spirits of the dead will protect and bring good luck to the family.\n\nGhosts are described in classical Chinese texts, and continue to be depicted in modern literature and movies.\n\nGuǐ (鬼) is the general Chinese term for ghost, used in combination with other symbols to give related meanings such as \"guilao\" (鬼佬), literally \"ghost man\", a pejorative term for foreigners, and \"mogwai\" (魔鬼) meaning \"devil\". Characters such as 魇 (yǎn) meaning \"nightmare\" also carry related meanings.\n\nYan Wang (), also called Yanluo () is the god of death and the sovereign of the underworld. He is also the judge of the underworld, and decides whether the dead will have good or miserable future lives. Although ultimately based on the god Yama of the Hindu Vedas, the Buddhist Yan Wang has developed different myths and different functions from the Hindu deity. Yan Wang is normally depicted wearing a Chinese judge's cap in Chinese and Japanese art. He sometimes appears on Chinese Hell Bank Notes.\n\nZhong Kui () is the vanquisher of ghosts and evil beings. Portraits of him were hung in Chinese houses at the end of the Chinese lunar year to scare away evil spirits and demons. He is depicted as fierce man with a black face and a comic beard brandishing a magic sword. Zhong Kui is said to be himself the ghost of a man who failed to pass the civil service examinations and committed suicide. He then became a ghost hunter. There is a story that the Emperor Xuanzong of Tang once dreamed that a small ghost stole the purse of the imperial consort. A larger ghost - Zhong Kui - captured the smaller one and returned the purse.\n\nThere has been extensive interaction between traditional Chinese beliefs and the more recent Confucianism, Taoism, and Buddhism.\n\nAncestor worship is the original basic Chinese religion. The core belief is that there is a continued existence after death.\nIt is thought that the soul of a deceased person is made up of yin and yang components called hun and po (魂 and 魄). The yin component, po, is associated with the grave, and the yang component, hun, is associated with ancestral tablets . At death the components split into three different souls; the po stays with the body to the grave, another goes to judgment, and the hun resides in an ancestral tablet. The po and hun are not immortal and need to be nourished by offerings made by descendants. Eventually both the po and hun go to the underworld, although the hun goes to heaven first. Unlike in western usages of the term, underworld has no negative connotation.\n\nKing Xuan of Zhou (827–783 BCE) according to Chinese legend executed his minister, Tu Po, on false charges even after being warned that Tu Po's ghost would seek revenge. Three years later, according to historical chronicles, Tu Po's ghost shot and killed Xuan with a bow and arrow before an assembly of feudal lords. The Chinese philosopher, Mo Tzu (470–391 BCE), is quoted as having commented:\n\"If from antiquity to the present, and since the beginning of man, there are men who have seen the bodies of ghosts and spirits and heard their voices, how can we say that they do not exist? If none have heard them and none have seen them, then how can we say they do? But those who deny the existence of the spirits say: \"Many in the world have heard and seen something of ghosts and spirits. Since they vary in testimony, who are to be accepted as really having heard and seen them?\" Mo Tzu said: As we are to rely on what many have jointly seen and what many have jointly heard, the case of Tu Po is to be accepted.\"\nReligious Taoism finally came together during the Han Dynasty (206 BCE–220 CE) around the time Buddhism was introduced to China, and it rose to predominance during the Tang Dynasty (618–907 CE), which initially tolerated its coexistence. Reverence for nature and ancestor spirits is common in popular Taoism. Banned during the Cultural Revolution (along with all other religions), Taoism is undergoing a major revival today, and it is the spirituality followed by about 30% (400 million) of the total Chinese population\nBuddhism was introduced into China in the 1st century CE, and rapidly became popular with its belief in a continuous cycle of rebirth and more complex ghost beliefs, although the older beliefs lingered. The entry of Buddhism into China was marked by interaction and syncretism with Taoism in particular. Originally seen as a kind of \"foreign Taoism\", Buddhism's scriptures were translated into Chinese using the Taoist vocabulary.\n\nElements of pre-Han Dynasty mythologies such as those in Shan Hai Jing were adapted into these belief systems as they developed (in the case of Taoism), or were assimilated into Chinese culture (in the case of Buddhism). On the other hand, elements from the teachings and beliefs of these systems became incorporated into Chinese mythology. For example, the Taoist belief of a spiritual paradise became incorporated into mythology, as the place where immortals and deities dwell.\n\nThe state of ancestor veneration in modern-day China is reported to be declining in areas that were more heavily affected by the hostility towards religion under the Communist Regime. However, in rural areas of China, as well as Taiwan, ancestor worship and its practices can still be commonly found.\n\nMany kinds of ghosts have been introduced throughout Chinese folklore and philosophy. In the \"Śūraṅgama Sūtra\", ghosts are depicted as the souls of wicked humans who, after undergoing punishment for their offenses in the afterlife, are eventually reborn as demons. Like the immortal \"xian\", the text describes ten types of ghosts, characterizing each type with their principal offense and their unique ability:\n\n\nAnother classification is mentioned in A Dictionary of Chinese Buddhist Terms (, \"). There are nine types of hungry ghosts, all divided into three main classes:\n\n\nThe literary term Hero among ghosts (, \") refers to a person who has died a heroic death.\n\nThe use of mediums to communicate with spirits is an important practice in traditional Chinese culture, and is closely linked to ancestor worship. The medium (mun mai poh, 問覡|問米) or \"ask rice woman\" helps to ask the ancestor what they require on the other side, and these needs can be provided through the burning of paper effigies. In return, the spirit can be of great help in matters such as winning the lottery or being admitted to low-cost government housing.\nThe person visiting the medium will take a cup of rice from their kitchen to identify the family.\nThrough these communications the dead help the living while the living help the dead.\nThe name involves a pun, since with a change in intonation \"ask rice\" becomes \"spirit medium\".\n\nThe Ghost Festival () is a traditional Chinese festival celebrated by Chinese in many countries. The fifteenth day of the seventh month in the lunar calendar is called Ghost Day and the seventh month in general is regarded as the 'Ghost Month (), in which ghosts and spirits, including those of the deceased ancestors, come out from the lower realm. Distinct from both the Qingming Festival (in Spring) and Chung Yeung Festival (in Autumn) in which living descendants pay homage to their deceased ancestors, on Ghost Day, the deceased are believed to visit the living. The festival has a long history. A Japanese pilgrim gave a detailed account of the Ghost festival in the Tang capital of Ch'ang-an in the year 840. In those day the festival was usually called by its Buddhist name of \"yu lan p'en\".\n\nThe Buddhists associate the Chung Yuan festival with the legend of Moginlin saving his mother from the underworld. In this story, the hero learns that his mother is starving in the underworld. He travels there, overcoming many difficulties, and offers her food. However, the food bursts into flames before she can eat. In despair, he asks Sakyamuni for advice. The Buddha tells him to find ten monks who will fast and pray together with him on the 15th day of the seventh moon. Moginlin follows this advice and finally manages to release his mother from her torments.\n\nOn the fifteenth day the realms of Heaven and Hell and the realm of the living are open and Chinese would perform rituals to transmute and absolve the sufferings of the deceased. Intrinsic to the Ghost Month is ancestor worship, where traditionally the filial piety of descendants extends to their ancestors even after their deaths. Activities during the month would include preparing ritualistic food offerings, burning incense, and burning joss paper, a papier-mache form of material items such as clothes, gold and other fine goods for the visiting spirits of the ancestors. Elaborate meals would be served with empty seats for each of the deceased in the family treating the deceased as if they are still living. Ancestor worship is what distinguishes Qingming Festival from Ghost Festival because the latter includes paying respects to all deceased, including the same and younger generations, while the former includes only older generations. Other festivities may include, buying and releasing miniature paper boats and lanterns on water, which signifies giving directions to the lost ghosts and spirits of the ancestors and other deities.\nThe modern festival of Chung Yuan Putu or \"Mid-origin Passage to Universal Salvation\" owes its origins to both the Buddhist Ullambana (Deliverance) Festival and the Taoist Chinese Ghost Festival, both of which honor the spirits of the departed, and which have now been combined. Historically, families offer sacrifices of the newly harvested grain to departed ancestors on this day. In some parts of China, believers make small roadside fires where they burn paper money and other offerings to appease the restless spirits that have temporarily been released from the underworld.\n\nDuring the ghost festival, people try to avoid outdoor activities, getting married, or moving to a new house—especially at night.\nIt is thought that if a ghost finds someone in the street and follows them home, they and their family will have bad luck for the next year. People should also avoid bodies of water on Ghost day, since they may be caught and drowned by a Shuǐ Guǐ (水鬼), a ghost who had died through drowning and wants to return to life.\nThe Ghost Festival shares some similarities with the predominantly Mexican observance of \"El Día de los Muertos\". Due to theme of ghosts and spirits, the festival is sometimes also known as the \"Chinese Halloween\".\n\nHungry Ghosts is a Chinese concept that differs from ghosts in Chinese tradition, it does not relate to buddhism. Traditional belief is that people become ghosts when they die.\nIt was originally thought that ghosts did not have eternal life, but would slowly weaken and eventually die a second time.\nHungry ghosts in traditional thought would only be an issue in exceptional cases such a whole family was killed or when a family no longer appreciated their ancestors. With the rise of popularity in Buddhism the idea that souls would live in space until reincarnation became popular.\nIn the Taoist tradition it is believed hungry ghosts can arise from people whose deaths have been violent or unhappy. Both Buddhism and Taoism share the idea that hungry ghosts can emerge from neglect or desertion of ancestors.\n\nAccording to the Hua-yen Sutra evil deeds will cause a soul to be born in different realms. There are six possible realms of existence for souls.\nThe highest degree of evil deed will cause a soul to be born into a realm as a denizen of hell, the lower degree of that would cause a soul to be born as an animal, and the lowest degree would cause a soul to be born as a hungry ghost.\nEvil deeds that lead to becoming a hungry ghost would be killing, stealing, and sexual misconduct. Desire, greed, anger, and ignorance are all factors in causing a soul to be reborn as a hungry ghost because they are motives for people to perform evil deeds. The least serious of these will cause one to have the destiny of becoming a hungry ghost.\n\nWhen someone dies, it is important to perform the correct rites to ensure that the departed ancestor does not become a wandering ghost. Since the corpse, or at least the bones, continues to have powers that could affect the fate of living relatives, an expert in feng-shui is needed to determine an auspicious time, place, and orientation of the burial.\n\nIn Chinese tradition, a ghost marriage (also known as a \"Minghun\" or \"spirit marriage\") is a marriage in which one or both parties are deceased.\nA ghost marriage was usually set up by the family of the deceased and performed for a number of reasons, including the marriage of a couple previously engaged before one member’s death, to integrate an unmarried daughter into a patrilineage, to ensure the family line is continued, or to maintain that no younger brother is married before an elder brother.\n\n\"Fengshen Bang\" (, \"The Investiture of the Gods\") is one of the major vernacular Chinese epic fantasy novels written in the Ming Dynasty. The story is set in the era of the declining Shang Dynasty and rise of the Zhou Dynasty. It intertwines numerous elements of Chinese mythology, including gods and goddesses, immortals and spirits.\nThe novel is prominent in modern Chinese culture and has been adapted into numerous television series and video games, even in Japanese popular culture.\n\n\"Journey to the West\" () is one of the Four Great Classical Novels of Chinese literature. Originally published anonymously in the 1590s during the Ming Dynasty, its authorship has been ascribed to the scholar Wu Cheng'en since the 20th century.\nIt tells the story of the monk Xuánzàng and his quest to bring back Buddhist scriptures from Vulture Peak in India.\nAlthough some of the obstacle Xuánzàng encounters are political and involve ordinary human beings, they more frequently consist of run-ins with various goblins and ogres, many of in whom turn out to be the earthly manifestations of heavenly beings (whose sins will be negated by eating the flesh of Xuánzàng) or animal-spirits with enough Taoist spiritual merit to assume semi-human forms.\n\n\"Strange Stories from a Chinese Studio\", ) is a collection of nearly five hundred mostly supernatural tales written by Pu Songling in Classical Chinese during the early Qing Dynasty.\nThe compilation was first circulated in manuscript form before it was published posthumously. Sources differ in their account of the year of publication. One source claims the \"Strange Tales\" were published by Pu's grandson in 1740. However, the earliest existing print version today dates to 1766.\nPu is believed to have completed the majority of the tales sometime in 1679, though he could have added entries as late as 1707.\n\nThe theme of ghosts is popular in Chinese cinema, including films made in Hong Kong, Singapore and the mainland. They may be based on traditional themes.\n\"A Chinese Ghost Story\" () is a 1987 Hong Kong romantic comedy - horror film starring Leslie Cheung, Joey Wong, and Wu Ma, directed by Ching Siu-tung, and produced by Tsui Hark. The story is loosely based on a short story in \"Strange Stories from a Chinese Studio\". It was a huge success in Hong Kong, South Korea and Japan and sparked a trend of folklore ghost films in the HK film industry. The movie won many awards.\nTen years later, \"\" was based on the same story. The first Chinese animated feature film from Hong Kong, it was produced by Tsui Hark and his production company, Film Workshop.\n\nChinese ghost movies may have more modern themes.\n\"The Ghost Inside\" () is a 2005 Chinese horror film directed by Herman Yau, and starring Mainland actors, Liu Ye and Gong Beibi and Taiwanese actress Barbie Shu. The film was produced by the China Film Group and at the time of its filming was the most expensive horror film ever made in mainland China.\nIt tells the story of a young mother fleeing an abusive husband who moves into an apartment haunted by the previous occupants, a mother who had thrown her daughter out of the window before jumping to her death herself.\n\n\"The Eye\" () is a 2002 Hong Kong-Singaporean-Thai horror film directed by the Pang brothers. The film spawned two sequels by the Pang brothers, \"The Eye 2\" and \"The Eye 10\".\nThe film is based on the story of a young woman who receives an eye transplant, which gives her supernatural powers.\nThere are two remakes of this film, \"Naina\", made in 2005 in India and \"The Eye\", a 2008 Hollywood production starring Jessica Alba and produced by Peter Chan and Paula Wagner.\n\n\"The Maid\" is a 2005 Singaporean horror film telling of a maid recently arriving from the Philippines. She has to acclimate herself to the customs of the Chinese Ghost Month, during which she struggles with supernatural forces. The maid is employed by a Teochew opera family, a family with many secrets, who give her a place to stay in their dilapidated shophouse. The film broke the box office record in Singapore for the horror genre, won the European Fantastic Film Festival Federation Asian Film Award at the 10th Puchon International Fantastic Film Festival (PiFan).\n\nIn the television series \"The X-Files\", 1996, Season 3, Episode 19 entitled \"Hell Money\" a story of Chinese ghost culture is spun around a black market organ procurement scheme.\n\n"}
{"id": "37693866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37693866", "title": "Gimmel Foundation", "text": "Gimmel Foundation\n\nThe Gimmel Foundation (קרן גימל - Keren Gimmel in Hebrew) is a New York City and Israel based non-profit foundation, which funds projects and programs aimed at improving Jewish education and Jewish identity in the Southern region of Israel.\nThe foundation was founded by Rabbi Dr. Harris Guedalia in 1980. Since then, the Gimmel Foundation has worked with over 18,000 children and adults in 53 programs offering various educational, cultural services.\n\nThe Gimmel Foundation (), focuses on strengthening community responsibility and good citizenship through extra-curricular educational activities. Since its establishment, the foundation has worked with the disadvantaged communities of southern Israel, raising the level of education and in so doing, the feeling of self-worth of the community members. Kiryat Malachi, a development town in the south of Israel, is one location which is served by the Gimmel Foundation. Kiryat Malachi suffers high unemployment rates. and a large influx of new immigrants from the former Soviet Union and from Ethiopia and in recent years has increased the population of Kiryat Malakhi by 40 percent. The Gimmel Foundation supports programs catering to the needs of new immigrants, disadvantaged children, the handicapped, senior citizens and veterans. In an average year a total there are 180 schools, 56 teachers and 800 students and adults are supported by the activities of the Gimmel Foundation.\n\nProgram run by the foundation include: After School Club, Senior Citizens Group, Needy People Fund, Junior High School Tutors, Reading Programs, Summer Camp.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40178128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40178128", "title": "Guiana United Muslim Party", "text": "Guiana United Muslim Party\n\nThe Guiana United Muslim Party (GUMP) was a political party in Guyana.\n\nThe party was set up in 1964 with assistance from the CIA and the British authorities, and was led by Hoosein Ganie. The American and British governments hoped the new party, together with the Justice Party (which the CIA was also funding), would take votes from the People's Progressive Party (PPP), whose left-wing leanings they were concerned about. Although the CIA estimated that the Justice Party and GUMP could win three seats in the 1964 general elections, neither did; GUMP received only 0.5% of the vote and failed to win a seat, whilst the PPP emerged as the largest party, but was unable to form a government.\n\nIn the 1968 elections it received only 0.3% of the vote and again failed to win a seat. The party did not contest any further elections.\n"}
{"id": "52118008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52118008", "title": "Hallucinogenic plants in Chinese herbals", "text": "Hallucinogenic plants in Chinese herbals\n\nFor over two millennia, texts in Chinese herbology and traditional Chinese medicine have recorded medicinal plants that are also hallucinogens and psychedelics. Some are familiar psychoactive plants in Western herbal medicine (e.g., \"làngdàng\" 莨菪 \"\"Hyoscyamus niger\", black henbane\"), but several Chinese plants have not been noted as hallucinogens in modern works (e.g., \"yúnshí\" 雲實 \"\"Caesalpinia decapetala\", cat's claw\" flowers). Chinese herbals are an important resource for the history of botany, for instance, Zhang Hua's c. 290 \"Bowuzhi\" is the earliest record of the psilocybin mushroom \"xiàojùn\" 笑菌 (lit. \"laughing mushroom\", \"\"Gymnopilus junonius\", laughing gym\").\n\nThere is a lexical gap between Chinese names and descriptions of hallucinogenic plants and English pharmacological terminology for hallucinogens, which are commonly divided into psychedelics, dissociatives, and deliriants.\n\nThe English lexicon has a complex semantic field for psychoactive drugs, and most terms are neologisms (n.b., the following definitions are from \"Stedman's Medical Dictionary\" 2008).\n\n\"Hallucination\" (from Latin \"alucinor\" \"to wander in mind\") is defined as: \"The apparent, often strong subjective perception of an external object or event when no such stimulus or situation is present; may be visual, auditory, olfactory, gustatory, or tactile.\" \"Hallucinogen\" (coined in 1952 from Latin \"alucinor\" and \"-gen\" \"producing\"): \"A mind-altering chemical, drug, or agent, specifically a chemical the most prominent pharmacologic action of which is on the central nervous system (mescaline); in normal people, it elicits optic or auditory hallucinations, depersonalization, perceptual disturbances, and disturbances of thought processes.\"\n\nPharmacology divides hallucinogens into three classes. \"Psychedelic\" (first used in 1956 from Greek \"psyche-\" \"mind; soul\" and \"delein\" \"to manifest\"): \"Pertaining to a rather imprecise category of drugs with mainly central nervous system action, and with effects said to be the expansion or heightening of consciousness, LSD, hashish, mescaline, psilocybin.\" \"Dissociative\" is a class of hallucinogen that produces feelings of \"dissociation\" (Latin \"dissocioatus\" \"to disjoin, separate\" from \"socius\" \"partner, ally\") meaning \"(3) An unconscious separation of a group of mental processes from the rest, resulting in an independent functioning of these processes and a loss of the usual associations, a separation of affect from cognition.\" \"Dissociative disorders\" is defined as \"a group of mental disorders characterized by disturbances in the functions of identity, memory, consciousness, or perception of the environment; this diagnostic group includes dissociative (older term, psychogenic) amnesia, dissociative fugue, dissociative identity (older term, multiple personality) disorder, and depersonalization disorder.\" \"Deliriant\" is a technical term introduced to distinguish hallucinogens that primarily cause \"delirium\" (1982, from Latin \"deliro\" \"to be crazy\" and \"delira\" \"go out of the furrow\"): \"An altered state of consciousness, consisting of confusion, distractibility, disorientation, disordered thinking and memory, defective perception (illusions and hallucinations), prominent hyperactivity, agitation, and autonomic nervous system overactivity; caused by illness, medication, or toxic, structural, and metabolic disorders.\"\n\nThe equivalent semantic field in the Chinese lexicon comprises contemporary loanwords (n.b., translation equivalents are primarily from \"Wenlin\" v. 4.3, 2016). \"Huànjué\" (幻覺 \"hallucination; delusion; illusion\") compounds \"huàn\" (幻 \"unreal; imaginary; illusory\") and (\"jué\"\" 覺 \"feeling; sensation; perception\"). \"Zhìhuànjì\" (致幻劑 \"psychedelic; hallucinogen\") compounds \"zhì\" (致 \"incur; cause\"), \"huàn\" \"unreal; imaginary; illusory\", and \"jì\" (劑 \"medicinal preparation; dose\"). \"Zhìhuànyào\" (致幻藥 \"hallucinogenic drug\") with \"yào\" (藥 \"medicine; drug\") is a less common synonym.\n\n\"Míhuànyàowù\" (迷幻藥物 \"psychedelic\") combines \"míhuàn\" (迷幻 \"phantasmagoric; surreal; mysterious; psychedelic\") and \"yàowù\" (藥物 \"medicine; pharmaceutical; medicament\"). The Chinese technical names for the last two classes of hallucinogens are rare: \"Yóulíyàopǐn\" (游离藥品 \"dissociative\") compounds \"yóulí\" (游离 \"dissociated; drifting\") and \"yàopǐn\" (藥品 \" medicine; chemical reagent; drug\"); and \"Zhìzhānwàngyào\" (致谵妄藥 \"deliriant\") combines \"zhì\" \"incur; cause\", \"zhānwàng\" (譫妄 \"(medical) delirium\"), and \"yào\" \"medicine; drug\".\n\nChinese pharmaceutical literature mainly comprises texts called \"bencao\" (), translatable as English herbal, pharmacopoeia, or materia medica. This word compounds \"ben\" \"(plant) root/stem; basis, origin; foundation; book\" and \"cao\" \"grass; herb; straw\". Although \"bencao\" is sometimes misinterpreted as \"roots and herbs\", the approximate meaning is \"[pharmaceutics whose] basis [\"ben\"] [is] herbs [\"cao\"]\" (Unschuld 1986: 14). These works deal with drugs of all origins, mainly vegetable but also mineral, animal, and even the human body.\n\nThe Chinese botanist, academic, and researcher Hui-lin Li (1911-2002) wrote seminal articles about the history and use of hallucinogenic plants in China. Li cites a story in Li Shizhen's 1596 magnum opus \"Bencao gangmu\" as the first discussion about the general use of psychoactive plants. In 1561, after horrific murders in Changli, the Ming dynasty Jiajing Emperor proclaimed a nationwide edict warning about the dangers of hallucinogens.\nLang-tang (\"Hyoscyamus niger\"), Yün-shih (\"Caesalpinia Sepiaria\"), Fang-k'uei (\"Peucedanum japonica\") and Red Shanglu (\"Phytolacca acinosa\") all can cause hallucination in peoples. In the past, this significance has not been fully divulged. Plants of this kind are all toxic, which can obscure the mind, alter one's consciousness, and confuse one's perception of sight and sound. In the T'ang times, An Lu-shan [a foreign warlord in the Chinese army service] once enticed the Kitan [tribesmen surrendered to his command] to drink Lang-tang wine and buried them alive while they were unconscious. Again in the second month of the 43rd year of the Chia-ch'in period (1561 A.D.), a wandering monk, Wu Ju-hsiang of Shensi province, who possessed wizardry, arrived at Ch'ang-li and stopped over at the house of a resident, Chang Shu. Upon finding the latter's wife being very beautiful, he asked that the entire family sit together at the table with him when he was being offered a meal. He put some reddish potion in the rice and after a while the whole family became unconscious and submitted to his assault. He then blew a magic spell into the ears of Chang Shu and the latter turned crazy and violent. Chang visualized his entire family as all devils and thereby killed them all, sixteen altogether, without any blood shed. The local authorities captured Chang Shu and kept him in prison. After ten days, he spat out nearly two spittoonsful of phlegm, became conscious, and found out himself that those he killed were his parents, brothers, sisters-in-law, his wife, sons, sisters, nephews. Both Chang and Wu were committed to the death sentence. The Emperor, Shih-tsung, proclaimed throughout the country about the case. The particular magic potion must be of the kind of Lang-tang or similar drugs. When the man was under the spell, he saw everyone else as a devil. It is thus very important to find out the remedy that counteracts such a thing. (tr. Li 1977: 162)\n\nThe following eight examples of confirmed and possible hallucinogens recorded in Chinese herbals are primarily based on the ten in Li Hui-Lin's 1977 article. Two edible plants, with only one Chinese source and no Western ones mentioning psychoactive properties, are omitted as unlikely: \"fangfeng\" ( \"\"Saposhnikovia divaricata\"; Chinese parsnip\") and \"longli\" ( \"\"Nephelium\" topengii\"; a type of lychee\") (1977: 173-174).\n\nThe \"làngdàng\" ( \"\"Hyoscyamus niger\"; black henbane\") is one of the most famous hallucinogenic drugs in Chinese herbals. The seeds, which contain psychoactive tropane alkaloids, are called\" làngdàngzi\" (莨菪子, with \"-zi\" \"child; seed\") or \"tiānxiānzi\" (天仙子 \"heavenly transcendent seeds\").\n\nFor use in medicine, the seeds are supposedly treated by soaking in vinegar and milk to reduce their toxicity. The \"Shennong Bencaojing\" says, \"[The seeds] when taken [when properly prepared] for a prolonged period enable one to walk for long distances, benefiting to the mind and adding to the strength ... and to communicate with spirits and seeing devils. When taken in excess, it causes one to stagger madly.\" (tr. Li 1977: 166). Lei Xiao's 470 \"Leigong paozhilun\" (雷公炮炙論 \"Master Lei's Treatise on the Decoction and Preparation of Drugs\") states that the seed \"is extremely poisonous, and when accidentally taken, it causes delirium and seeing sparks and flashes\", and Zhen Chuan's c. 620 \"Bencao yaoxing\" (本草藥性 \"Nature of Drugs in Materia Medica\") says the seeds \"should not be taken raw as it hurts people, causing them to see devils, acting madly like picking needles\" (tr. Li 1977: 167).\n\nThe \"yunshi\" ( \"\"Caesalpinia decapetala\"; cat's claw\") was a versatile drug plant in the Chinese pharmacopeia, and the root, flowers, and seeds were all used in medicine.\n\nThe \"Shennong Bencao\" says, \"[The flowers] could enable one to see spirits, and when taken in excess, cause one to stagger madly. If taken over a prolonged period, they produce somatic levitation and effect communication with spirits.\" Tao Hongjing, who edited the official Shangqing Daoist canon, also compiled the c. 510 \"Mingyi bielu\" (名醫別錄 \"Supplementary Records of Famous Physicians\") that says \"[The flowers] will drive away evil spirits. When put in water and burned, spirits can be summoned\" and \"The seeds are like \"langdang\" (\"Hyoscyamus niger\"), if burned, spirits can be summoned; but this [sorcery] method has not been observed.\" (tr. Li 1977: 167).\n\nLi Hui-Lin notes this plant \"has not been noted as a hallucinogenic plant in modern works. In fact, as far as I am aware, it has not been investigated medicinally or chemically\" (1977: 168).\n\nThe \"fangkui\" ( \"Peucedanum japonicum\") root is used in Chinese medicine, and, like the previous cat's claw, has not been noted as a hallucinogenic in modern works. The c. 510 \"Tao Hongjing mingyi bielu\" states, \"Feverish people should not take it, because it causes one to be delirious and see spirits\"; and Chen Yanzhi's (陳延之) c. 454-473 \"Xiaoping fang\" (小品方 \"Minor Prescriptions\") says that \"fangkui\", \"if taken in excess, makes one become delirious and act somewhat like mad\" (tr. Li 1977: 168).\n\n\"P. japonicum\" is also used quite extensively in Korean cuisine - not only as a culinary herb, but also as a leaf vegetable, raising the question as to what constitutes consumption 'to excess'. It may be the case that the strain of plant grown in Korea is less toxic / medicinal than that found in China, or that very substantial quantities of the plant must be eaten before any psychoactive effects are manifested. Alternatively, the psychoactive components of the plant may be deactivated by the cooking processes employed in the preparation of the plant in Korea.\n\nThe \"shanglu\" ( \"\"Phytolacca acinosa\"; India pokeweed\") has edible leaves and poisonous roots. China's oldest extant dictionary, the c. 3rd-century BCE \"Erya\" (13: 110) gives two names for pokeweed: \"chùtāng\" (蓫薚) and \"mǎwěi\" (馬尾 \"horsetail\").\n\nChinese herbals distinguish two kinds of \"shanglu\", white with white flowers and white root, and red with red flowers and purple root. The white root is edible when cooked but the red root is extremely poisonous. The \"Tao Hongjing mingyi bielu\" records how Daoists used the red variety, \"By boiling or brewing and then taken, it can be used for abdominal parasitic worms and for seeing spirits\"; Su Song's 1061 \"Bencao tujing\" (本草圖經 \"Illustrated Pharmacopeia\") says, \"It was much used by sorcerers in ancient times\" (tr. Li 1977: 169). Su Gong's 659 \"Tang bencao\" (唐本草 \"Tang dynasty pharmacopeia\") says \"The red kind can be used to summon spirits; it is very poisonous. It can be only used as external application for inflammation. When ingested, it is extremely harmful, causing unceasing bloody stool. It may be fatal. It causes one to see spirits.\" (tr. Li 1977: 170).\n\nThe 1406 \"Jiuhuang Bencao\" \"Famine Relief Herbal\" lists pokeweed as a famine food. It gives instructions for removing the poisonous phytolaccatoxin from the white roots and mentions Daoist \"xian\" using the flowers: \"Cut them up into slices, scald, then soak and wash repeatedly (throwing away the extract) until the material is clean; then just eat it with garlic. … Plants with white flowers can (it is said) confer longevity; the immortals collected them to make savouries to take with their wine.\" (tr. Needham, Lu, and Huang 1986: 340-341).\n\n\"Dama\" ( \"\"Cannabis sativa\"; hemp; marijuana\") has been grown in China since Neolithic times. At a very early period the Chinese recognized the Cannabis plant as dioecious, the male plants produce better fibers and the female plants produce more cannabinoids. In modern usage, the names are \"xǐ\" ( \"male cannabis\") and \"jū\" ( \"female cannabis\") (Li 1973: 294).\n\nReflecting the importance of cannabis in ancient China, the ca. 3rd century BCE \"Erya\" dictionary (13) has four definitions: \"fén\" (黂/蕡) and \"xǐshí\" (枲實) mean \"cannabis flower\"; \"xǐ\" () and \"má\" (麻) mean \"cannabis\" generally and not \"male cannabis\"; \"fú\" (莩, lit. \"reed membrane\") and \"mámǔ\" (麻母, \"cannabis mother\") mean \"female cannabis\"; and \"bò\" (薜) and \"shānmá\" (山麻 \"mountain cannabis\") mean \"wild cannabis\", possibly \"C. ruderalis\".\n\nThe \"Shennong bencao\" calls \"cannabis flowers/buds\" \"mafen\" (麻蕡) or \"mabo\" (麻勃) and says: \"To take much makes people see demons and throw themselves about like maniacs [多食令人見鬼狂走]. But if one takes it over a long period of time one can communicate with the spirits, and one's body becomes light [久服通神明輕身]\" (tr. Needham and Lu 1974: 150). The \"Mingyi bielu\" records that in the 6th century, \"mabo\" were, \"very little used in medicine, but the magician-technicians [\"shujia\" 術家] say that if one consumes them with ginseng it will give one preternatural knowledge of events in the future.\" (tr. Needham and Lu 1974: 151, see cannabis and time perception). Meng Shen's c. 670 \"Shiliao bencao\" (食療本草 \"Nutritional Therapy Pharmacopeia\") says people will combine equal parts of raw cannabis flowers, Japanese sweet flag, and wild mandrake, \"pound them into pills of the size of marbles and take one facing the sun every day. After one hundred days, one can see spirits.\" (tr. Li 1977: 171). Tang Shengwei's 1108 \"Zhenglei bencao\" (證類本草 \"Reorganized Pharmacopeia\") gives a more complete account on the pharmaceutical uses of cannabis: \"Ma-fen has a spicy taste; it is toxic; it is used for waste diseases and injuries; it clears blood and cools temperature; it relieves fluxes; it undoes rheumatism; it discharges pus. If taken in excess, it produces hallucinations and a staggering gait. If taken over a long term, it causes one to communicate with spirits and lightens one's body.\" (tr. Li 1977: 170).\n\nAccording to the sinologists and historians Joseph Needham and Lu Gwei-djen, some early Daoists adapted censers for the religious and spiritual use of cannabis. The c. 570 Daoist encyclopedia \"Wushang Biyao\" (無上秘要 \"Supreme Secret Essentials\") recorded adding cannabis into ritual censers, and they suggest Yang Xi (330-c. 386), who wrote the Shangqing scriptures during alleged visitations by Daoist \"xian\", was \"aided almost certainly by cannabis\" (1974: 150-151).\n\nThe \"mantuoluo\" ( \"\"Datura stramonium\"; jimsonweed\" or \"(Buddhism) mandala\") contains highly toxic Tropane alkaloids. Several Datura species were introduced into China from India, and Li Shizhen's 1596 \"Bencao gangmu\" was the first herbal to record the medicinal use of flowers and seeds. The drug is used in combination with \"Cannabis sativa\" and taken with wine as an anesthetic for small operations and cauterizations. Li Shizhen personally experimented with jimsonweed and recorded his experience as follows: \"According to traditions, it is alleged that when the flowers are picked for use with wine while one is laughing, the wine will cause one to produce laughing movements; and when the flowers are picked while one is dancing, the wine will cause one to produce dancing movements. [I have found out] that such movements will be produced when one becomes half-drunk with the wine and someone else laughs or dances to induce these actions.\" (tr. Li 1977: 172).\n\nThe \"maogen\" ( \"\"Ranunculus japonicus\"; buttercup\") is a poisonous plant with bright yellow flowers. The Daoist alchemist Ge Hong's c. 340 \"Zhouhou jiuzu fang\" (肘後救卒方 \"Remedies for Emergencies\", tr. Li 1977: 172) says, \"Among the herbs there is the Shui Lang (water Lang, a kind of Mao-ken) a plant with rounded leaves which grows along water courses and is eaten by crabs. It is poisonous to man and when eaten by mistake, it produces a maniacal delirium, appearing like a stroke and sometimes with blood-spitting. The remedy is to use licorice.\" Later herbals, which do not mention \"maogen\" as a deliriant, say the whole plant is considered poisonous and is should only be externally used as a medicine for irritation and inflammation.\n\nThe \"xiaojun\" ( \"laughing mushroom\") was known to Chinese herbalists for centuries before modern botanists identified it as a type of psilocybin mushroom, most likely either \"Gymnopilus junonius\" or Laughing Gym or \"Panaeolus papilionaceus\" or Petticoat Mottlegill.\n\nThe earliest record of a mushroom that causes uncontrollable laughter appears in Zhang Hua's c. 290 \"Bowuzhi\" compendium of natural wonders, in a context describing two unusual kinds of \"jùn\" (菌 \"mushroom; fungus\") that grow on tree bark. \nIn all the mountain commanderies to the South of the Yangzi, there is a fungus which grows [生菌] throughout the spring and summer on the large trees that have fallen down; it is known as the Zhen [椹 \"chopping block (for execution)\"]. If one eats it, it is tasty, but suddenly the poison takes effect and kills the eater. … If one eats Sweet gum tree growths [生者], they will induce uncontrollable laughter. If one drinks \"earth sauce\" [\"tǔjiāng\" 土漿] one will recover. (tr. Greatrex 1987: 139) \n\nThe \"Bencao gangmu\" records Tao Hongjing's recipe for preparing \"earth sauce\": \"Dig out a pit three chi deep in a place where there is yellow earth. Take freshly-drawn water and pour it into the pit, stirring the water so as to make it turbid. After a short while, draw off the clear water and use this. It is called either 'soil sauce' or 'earth sauce'.\" (tr. Greatrex 1987: 264). Hui-lin Li quotes a Chinese-language study of \"laughing mushrooms\" that this \"soil infusion\" is the clear liquid after soil is mixed with water and allowed to settle, and an effective antidote for poisons (1977: 175).\n\nSubsequent Chinese authors give many similar records. Chen Renyu's (陳仁玉) I245 \"Jùnpǔ\" (菌譜 \"Mushroom Guidebook\") says this fungus is named \" tǔxùn\" (土蕈 \"earth mushroom\") or \"dùxùn\" (杜蕈 \"pear mushroom\") and \"grows in the ground. People believe it to be formed by the air from poisonous vermin, and kills people if taken... Those poisoned by it will laugh. As an antidote, use strong tea, mixed with alum and fresh clear water. Upon swallowing this, it will cure immediately.\" (Li 1977: 175).\n\nThe c. 304 \"Nanfang Caomu Zhuang\" mentions sweetgum tree growths in a quite different context, the shamans in the southern state of Yue use a magical \"fēngrén\" (楓人 \"sweetgum person\") that is a kind of \"liúyǐng\" (瘤癭 \"gall\") found growing on sweetgum trees. \"When aged they develop tumors. Sometimes in a violent thunder storm, the tree tumors grow suddenly three to five feet in one night, and these are called Feng-jen. The witches of Yueh collect these for witchcraft, saying that they have proof of their supernatural quality.\" (tr. Li 1979: 77). Later sources gave two explanations of the sweetgum tree growths, either as galls that resemble humans and have magical powers or as parasitic plants with rain-giving powers (1979: 78-79).\n\nIn Japan, both medieval and modern sources record laughing mushrooms. An 11th-century story in the \"Konjaku Monogatarishū\" describes a group of Buddhist nuns who ate \"maitake\" (舞茸 \"dancing mushrooms\") and began to laugh and dance uncontrollably. It is also known as the \"waraitake\" (笑茸 \"laughing mushroom\"), which scholars have identified as the \"Panaeolus papilionaceus\" or Petticoat Mottlegill; the related \"Panaeolus cinctulus\" or Banded Mottlegill; and the psilocybin mushroom \"Gymnopilus junonius\" or Laughing Cap also called \"ōwaraitake\" (大笑茸 \"Big Laughing Mushroom\") (Sanford 1972).\n\nIn a study on early Daoist practitioners searching for the elixir of Immortality, Needham and Lu mention the possible use of hallucinogenic plants, such as \"Amanita muscaria\" \"fly agaric\" and \"xiaojun\" \"laughing mushrooms\". Based on Tang dynasty and Song dynasty references, they tentatively identify it as a \"Panaeolus\" or \"Pholiota\" and suggest that the properties of at least some psychoactive mushrooms were widely known. They predict the further exploration of hallucinogenic fungi and other plants in Daoism and in Chinese culture in general \"will be an exciting task\" (1974: 121).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2220355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2220355", "title": "Institute of Christ the King Sovereign Priest", "text": "Institute of Christ the King Sovereign Priest\n\nThe Institute of Christ the King Sovereign Priest (, ) is a Roman Catholic society of apostolic life of pontifical right in communion with the Holy See of the Catholic Church. The institute has the stated goal of honoring God and the sanctification of priests in the service of the Catholic Church and souls. An integral part of the institute’s charism is the use of the traditional Latin liturgy of 1962 for Mass and the other sacraments. It has undertaken the restoration of a number of historic church buildings.\n\nThe institute's rule of life is based generally on that of the secular canons. The institute has its own choir dress, adopted in 2006, which was given to members by the (Cardinal) Archbishop of Florence. Its stated mission is the defense and propagation of the reign of Christ in all areas of human life, both private and social.\n\nThe institute was canonically erected on 1 September 1990 by Gilles Wach and Philippe Mora in Gabon, Africa, where the institute still has missions, notably in the capital Libreville. Its canonical status was of diocesan right until October 7, 2008. On that date it was granted the status of pontifical right by decree, titled \"Saeculorum Rex\", of the Pontifical commission \"Ecclesia Dei\", on the occasion of the visit of Camille Perl, vice-president of the commission. Deacons and priests are incardinated into the institute, whose prior general has the right to call to orders. The institute is currently based in Gricigliano, Italy in the Archdiocese of Florence. The international seminary of St. Philip Neri is also located there.\n\nWach currently serves as prior general and Mora as rector of the seminary. Both received their priestly formation under Cardinal Giuseppe Siri of Genoa. As of 2018 the institute numbered 114 priests. The Institute also includes clerical oblates, who go through formation but are not ordained as priests, and who help in the several apostolates of the Institute.\n\nThe charism of the institute is based on the example of its three patron saints:\n\nThe institute also honors as its primary patroness the Virgin Mary under the title of the Immaculate Conception. St. Teresa of the Child Jesus is the patroness of its African missions.\n\nIn the United States, the institute is located in Illinois, Wisconsin, Missouri, New Jersey, Connecticut, California, Arizona, and Michigan, with its national headquarters in Chicago. In Chicago, the institute is restoring the historic St. Clara/St. Gelasius Church on Carmelite Way. Upon completion it will become the Shrine of Christ the King. \n\nIts oldest United States apostolate is St. Mary Oratory in Rockford, Illinois, and its newest is St Joseph Oratory in Detroit, Michigan. In Kansas City, Missouri, in 2005, Bishop Robert Finn established an oratory (a public church where the Mass and other rites may be administered) for the institute at a historic church otherwise in danger of being closed. The superior for the United States is Canon Matthew Talarico.\n\nThe institute is active in the dioceses of Liverpool, Lancaster, Shrewsbury and East Anglia in Great Britain; in 2011 the Bishop of Shrewsbury invited the institute to re-open the church of Saints Peter, Paul and Philomena in New Brighton. \n\nSince St. Patrick's Day, March 17, 2006, the institute has had a presence in the Diocese of Limerick in the Republic of Ireland. In Limerick they purchased Sacred Heart Church, Since May 2010, the institute in Ireland has expanded into the diocese of Galway where weekly Mass is offered at St Mary on the Hill, Claddagh. Monthly Masses are offered by priests of the Institute in Ennis every first Sunday of the month and in Belfast every second Sunday of the month. The Institute is closely involved in the annual Catholic Voice conference held in Limerick which features amongst its regular speakers Cardinal Burke and Fr. John Hunwicke.\n\nIn addition to its oratories in the United States and missions in Africa, the institute also has apostolates in France, Spain, Belgium, Italy, Germany, Austria, and Switzerland. The institute is especially active in the domain of education, running schools in France (Montpellier, Lille and Versailles), Belgium (Brussels International Catholic School), and Africa.\n\nDuring its yearly ordinations week in Italy, the institute has had visits by the Cardinals Raymond Leo Burke, Antonio Cañizares Llovera, Darío Castrillón Hoyos, Giuseppe Siri and Archbishop Camille Perl.\n\nThe Adorers of the Royal Heart of Jesus Christ Sovereign Priest are a women's community (founded in 2004) associated with the institute. They are also based in Gricigliano. The sisters are non-cloistered contemplatives, and their way of life is based on the Benedictine tradition. The community celebrates Mass and the Divine Office using the traditional Roman Rite. When the number of sisters has increased sufficiently, the community plans to locate convents near the institute's churches, where the sisters will perform apostolic work such as teaching. , the sisters numbered about thirty. The sisters have established a presence in Germany.\n\nMass and the Divine Office celebrated in the classical Roman form, form the rhythm of each day. Needlework and embroidery projects form an important part of their daily \"Ora et Labora\" (\"pray and work\").\n\nThe Society of the Sacred Heart is a lay society associated with the Institute of Christ the King. The lay members of the society pledge to live according to a modified Benedictine rule, within their vocation. Through membership in the society, lay faithful participate in the spiritual and social missions of the institute through prayer, devotions, spiritual direction, and study of the spiritual writings of St. Francis de Sales. \n\nGilles Wach is the founder and prior general. \n\nPhilippe Mora is the co-founder and rector of the international St. Philip Neri seminary in Gricigliano.\n\nR. Michael Schmitz is the vicar general of the institute and provincial of France.\n\nCanons, superiors, and the prior general\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36321528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36321528", "title": "Irreligion in Russia", "text": "Irreligion in Russia\n\nIrreligion was official state policy during the Soviet Union and was rigorously enforced. This led to the persecution of Christians in the country. Since the collapse of Communism, Russia has seen an upsurge of religion. Adding together those who are undecided, those who are spiritual but not religious, and those who are atheistic, as of a 2012 survey, 43.5% of Russians claim no particular religious affiliation.\n\nMany Russian secularists feel that the new religious establishments are now abusing the system for their own advantage despite the separation of church and state in the Russian Constitution. Most Russians believe that the state and church should be separate.\n\nIn the Russian Empire, the atheistic worldview began to permeate in connection with the growing popularity of the ideas of Voltaire in the mid-18th century, but the number of radical atheists was still insignificant. Most of the supporters of this trend adhered to Deismistic views, since, according to the Russian historian Vladimir Nikolaevich, \"Russian society in the mass understood deism as the absence of God\".\n\nThe future Empress Catherine II as early as the 1740s and 1750s became acquainted with Voltaire's original works, which practically did not contain the propaganda of materialism and atheism, to which he had just begun to join at that time, but afterwards her interest in them faded away. Along with this, being a Voltairean, Catherine was carried away by reading and analyzing the \"Historical and Critical Dictionary \"atheist.\n\nPierre Bayle, from which the principle of toleration, embodied during all her reign, was derived. In 1767, Catherine made an attempt to reform the Russian Orthodox Church, subject to the following amendments to the Holy Synod: to allow Old Believers in the post to use a number of dishes, as well as shorten the duration of posts; on top of that, she worked to remove from the houses of the icon, eliminate a number of Christian holidays, replace the lengthy services with short, evening and all-night vigil - with brief prayers with instruction, allow bishops to have a wife, change the form of clergymen to a more Secular variety, eliminate some difficulties about the need for divorce, to allow marriages between relatives and representatives of different faiths and finally to liquidate the commemoration of the deceased and so on.\n\nMembers of the Synod ignored these amendments, realizing that as a result of their implementation, the authority of the empress and the church will be significantly undermined. After the death of Voltaire, the empress ordered 100 complete collections of works by the thinker so that \"they serve as a teaching that they will be studied, confirmed by heart so that the minds will eat them,\" and even planned to erect a monument to the philosopher in St Petersburg Great French Revolution Voltaire's busts, standing in the living rooms and corridors Winter Palace, were demolished, the publication of his writings is prohibited, the available copies were confiscated.\n\nAs a result of these events, Catherine II was fully introduced to Orthodoxy as a religion capable of destroying \"atheism, pagan, immoral, anarchic, villainous, diabolical, hostile to God and the apostles\".\n\nFor a certain period of time, among the courtiers of the Russian Empire, the Empress was popular with jokes about religion, the demonstration of godlessness and the exaltation of Voltaire as a philosopher who came to the world in order to free him from superstition.\n\nVoltaire himself, referring to the state of religion in the Russian Empire, said: \"... the whole yard of the Russian Empire ... consists of deists, despite all the superstitions with which the Greek church is still permeated.\" The doctrine was successful not only among representatives of the higher class, like the princess Yekaterina Vorontsova-Dashkova, князь Alexander Michailowitsch Belosselski Countess Ekaterina Petrovna Trubeckaja, Alexander Vorontsov, Dmitri Alekseyevich Gallitzin, But also the average. However, with regard to the views of the empress and her supporters, a number of people from both the middle and upper classes expressed dissatisfaction, including the prince Mikhail Shcherbatov (\"Catherine\" ... is enamored with the meaningless reading of new writers, the Christian law, although she piously pretends to be pious, and for nothing reveres. \"Although she does not hide her thoughts, but many times in her conversations open\" Famous writer Denis Fonvizin (\"...\" I entered into close service with one prince, a young writer, and entered a society, to which I can not remember until now without fear.\n\nFor it was better to pass the time in blasphemy and blasphemy. In the first I did not take any part and shuddered, hearing the curse of atheists; And I played the blasphemous role in blasphemy myself ... At that time I composed a message to Shumilov, in which some of the poems reveal my misconception at the time, so I have been called an atheist by many people. \"\n\nThe number of Russian atheists of that time included a large part of Masons, later disillusioned at godlessness and converted to Orthodoxy.\n\nAt least as of 1899, it was not allowed to have any religion. The \"Penal Code on Penalties and Corrections\" of August 15, 1845 for the withdrawal from Orthodoxy provided for liability in the form of hard labor for a period of eight to ten years.\n\nIn Soviet Union, state atheism was an essential part of the state ideology. In Constitution of Russia (and subsequently in USSR Constitution, along with freedom of religion was also for the first time in the world. Freedom is fixed anti-religious propaganda struggle against religion was the task of a number of public organizations (League of Militant Atheists (1925-1947), society \"Knowledge\" (since 1947)). As a rule, anti-religious propaganda was conducted in parallel with popularization of scientific knowledge. In 1964 y was established Institute of Scientific Atheism, existed before 1991.\n\nEstimates of the number of atheists vary greatly due to the different interpretation of the concept of \"atheism.\"\n\nAccording to the sociological survey conducted in August 2012 a, non-religious and atheists themselves were called by 12.9% of Russians.\n\nIn a study Levada Center in November 2012, 5% of respondents named themselves atheists, 10% said they did not belong to any religion.\n\nAccording to FOM as of June 2013, 25% of Russians do not consider themselves to be believers.\n\nIn the framework of the study \"Arena: Atlas of Religions and Nationalities\", conducted by the Environment Service in 2012, 13% of Russians stated that they do not believe in God.\n\nAccording to the data of all-Russian surveys, atheists prefer to live in another country more often than average and are more likely to be men, and most atheists in Primorsky Territory (35%), Altai Territory (27%), Yakutia (26%), Novosibirsk Region (25%), and the Amur Region (24%).\n\nIn a 2005 interview, Andrey Kuraev said:\nI have already said that there are almost no atheists in Russia. Atheist today should be entered in Red Book as a creature worthy of care and protection.<...>in reality there is the most mass religion of our time - occultism. And if you talk with a person who claims that he is not Orthodox or Muslim, that he does not believe in God, then it turns out - in most cases, some beliefs and even religious practice in his life are present. Let it be an interest in horoscopes, an appeal to healers. Such domestic low magical religiosity is omnipresent. And so people who lived their lives not only without looking at the Bible or the Koran, but without taking into account popular magic television programs and advice, including astrological ones, are extremely few.\n\n\" The Constitution of the Russian Federation \"establishes the secular character of the state.\" No religion can be established as \" 'public or mandatory' \" (Article 14). Article 19 of the Constitution establishes the equality of religious associations before the law and their separation from the state. Article 28 guarantees freedom of religion - the right to confess individually or in community with others to any religion, \"or not to profess any\", \"freely choose,\" \"have and distribute\" religious and other Beliefs \"and act in accordance with them.\n\nThe Law \"On Education\" establishes the secular nature of public education. The creation and operation of organizational structures [ of political parties and religious organizations (associations) in state and municipalities educational institutions are not allowed \nPedagogical workers can not, in the framework of educational activity, compel students to accept political, religious or other beliefs or refuse them. The law \"On Freedom of Conscience and Religious Associations\" establishes the right of every citizen to profess individually or jointly with others any religion or not to profess any, freely choose and change, have and disseminate religious and other beliefs and act In accordance with them, if this does not contradict the need to protect the rights and legitimate interests of citizens and the security of the state. Discrimination on religious grounds is not allowed. Nobody is obliged to report their attitude to religion and can not be forced to participate or not to participate in religious activities. It is prohibited to involve Age of majority in religious associations, as well as the education of juvenile religions contrary to their will and without the consent of Kinship or their substitutes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54385534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54385534", "title": "Janet Jakobsen", "text": "Janet Jakobsen\n\nJanet R. Jakobsen is a scholar of gender and sexuality. She is Ann Whitney Olin Professor of Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies at Barnard College and Director of Barnard's Center for Research on Women. She has also been Barnard's Dean for Faculty Diversity and Development.\n\nJakobsen received her doctorate from Emory University. She taught at Wesleyan University before moving to Barnard.\n\nJakobsen's partner is Barnard professor of English and professor of feminist, gender and sexuality studies Christina Crosby. Crosby writes about their life together after Crosby's paralyzing bike accident in her memoir, \"A Body, Undone: Living on After Great Pain\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33502970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33502970", "title": "Joseph Saragossi", "text": "Joseph Saragossi\n\nJoseph Saragossi, () (1460 – 1507) was a Spanish-born rabbi and kabbalist of the 15th and 16th centuries. He is credited with developing Safed into an important Jewish and kabbalistic centre. Due to a legend he is known as \"Tzaddik ha-Lavan\" (White Saint) or \"Tzaddik ha-Tarnegolim\" (Cockerel Saint.)\n\nAlthough Saragossi was born in 15th-century Spain, it is possible that his family did not originate in the Spanish town of Saragossa, as his name implies, but rather Zaragoza (Syracuse) in Sicily. He was banished with the rest of the Jewish community in 1492 and travelled through Sicily to Beirut and Sidon. He settled in Safed, where he became a rabbi. There were about 300 Jews there who had originally come from the Berbers, Sephardim and Moriscos, but they had no natural leader.\n\nSaragossi became a rabbi and a leader of the Jewish people despite his quiet manner. His charismatic personality was used to foster the growth of peace and harmony within the community. He endeavored to show reconciliation and mutual respect towards Safed's Muslim and Arab inhabitants. Saragossi's influence in Safed has been compared to the Italian Obadyah di Bertinoro who made a similar contribution to the community in Jerusalem.\n\nWhen Saragossi indicated his intention to leave Safed, the people of Safed persuaded him to remain, offering to pay him an annual retainer. The respect of the Arab community was demonstrated when their Muslim governor promised to provide 33 of the 50 ducats that was offered to Saragossi as an annual payment. Combining Talmudic with kabbalistic knowledge, Saragossi created a movement interested in Kabbalistic Jewish study in Safed. His kabbalistic teachings attracted the attention of David ibn Abu Zimra.\n\nIn accordance with his wish, Saragossi was buried adjacent to the tomb of Judah bar Ilai, the site where he experienced a revelation of the prophet Elijah. The object of a legend in which a salvation was wrought at his graveside involving the procurement of 500 pure white chickens, he was thereafter called the \"Tzaddik ha-Lavan\" (White Saint) or the \"Tzaddik ha-Tarnegolim\" (Cockrel Saint.) At the turn of the 19th-century, Saragossi's tomb at 'Ain Zaitun was the object of a weekly pilgrimage from the morning after Passover (22nd Nisan) until the 18th Iyyar.\n\n"}
{"id": "4488499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4488499", "title": "Kaam", "text": "Kaam\n\nKaam (from Sanskrit \"kama\") meaning deep extensive desire, uncontrolled longing, concupiscence, sensuality or lasciviousness is counted among the five cardinal sins or sinful propensities in Sikhism. In common usage, the term stands for \"excessive passion for sexual pleasure\" and it is in this sense that it is considered to be an evil in Sikhism.\n\nIn Sikhism it is believed that Kaam can be overcome by being satisfied with the current moment. All 5 thieves can be overcome with selfless service and remembrance of God (Simran).\n\nThe Gurus rejected lust. Yet they recognized the four \"purusarthas\", referred to in gurbani as char \"Padaraths\" or the four human pursuits as the Granth Sahib declares \"\"Dharma, Artha, Kam and Moksha follow God's devotee like shadow\" (SGGS 1320). However, in Sikhism, Kam is not unrestricted gratification of carnal desires, but an impulse which needs to be kept under check like other impulses and passions. Unrestrained propensity towards Kam, especially sexual relationship outside the marital bond, is condemned in the strongest terms in Sikh codes of conduct as well as in the Scripture. It is a destructive evil and a deadly sin. Kam is heavily discouraged as it \"can build barriers against God in their lives\"\".\n\nTo quote Guru Arjan, Nanak V: \"O Kam, thou landest people in hell and makest them wander through many births, enticest all minds, swayest all the three worlds and undoest one's meditation, austerities and restraint. The pleasure is ephemeral and thou afflictest high and low alike\" (GG, 1358). Guru Tegh Bahadur Nanak IX, says: \"In the sinning heart reigns kam and the fickle mind breaks out of control. Kam casts its noose even upon yogis, jangams and sannyasis. Only those imbued with God's Name (fall not a prey to it) and are able to go across the ocean of existence\" (GG, 1186). Bhai Gurdas describes an ideal Sikh as one who is loyal to his wife and \"regards all other women as mothers, sisters and daughters\" (Varan, XXIX. 11). Guru Gobind Singh also said: \"Love your own wedded wife ever so more, but do not go to another woman's bed even in a dream.\" Sikh codes of conduct strictly prohibit extramarital relations.\n\nWhile prescribing self-control and restraint and not total annihilation of kam, the Gurus suggested two ways of channelizing and sublimating it. On the one hand, they pronounced grihastha or married life to be the ideal one, and, on the other laid down love of God and absorption in His Name as the essential principle of spiritual discipline. Says Guru Gobind Singh \"Hear ye all, I proclaim here the truth: only they who love God find Him.\" The image of a devotee most common in Sikh Scripture is one of a wife deeply in love with her husband presently separated from him, and waiting, craving, praying for a reunion with him. Such fervent devotion cannot but bridle the wayward passion in man. According to Guru Arjan, a person who has cultivated the love of the Lord’s feet would desire neither kingship, worldly power, or even mukti or liberation (GG 534).\n"}
{"id": "237685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237685", "title": "Kitsune", "text": "Kitsune\n\nFoxes and humans lived close together in ancient Japan; this companionship gave rise to legends about the creatures. Kitsune have become closely associated with Inari, a Shinto \"kami\" or spirit, and serve as its messengers. This role has reinforced the fox's supernatural significance. The more tails a kitsune has—they may have as many as nine—the older, wiser, and more powerful it is. Because of their potential power and influence, some people make sacrifices to them as to a deity.\n\nConversely foxes were often seen as \"witch animals\", especially during the superstitious Edo period (1603–1867), and were goblins who could not be trusted (similar to some badgers and cats).\n\nJapanese fox myths had their origins in Chinese mythology. Chinese folk tales tell of fox spirits called \"húli jīng\" () that may have up to nine tails (\"Kyūbi no Kitsune\" in Japanese). Many of the earliest surviving stories are recorded in the \"Konjaku Monogatarishū\", an 11th-century collection of Chinese, Indian, and Japanese narratives. The nine-tailed foxes came to be adapted as a motif from Chinese mythology to Japanese mythology.\n\nSmyers (1999) notes that the idea of the fox as seductress and the connection of the fox myths to Buddhism were introduced into Japanese folklore through similar Chinese stories, but she maintains that some fox stories contain elements unique to Japan.\n\nThe full etymology is unknown. The oldest known usage of the word is in the 794 text \"Shin'yaku Kegonkyō Ongi Shiki\". Other old sources include Nihon Ryōiki (810–824) and Wamyō Ruijushō (c. 934). These oldest sources are written in Man'yōgana which clearly identifies the historical spelling as \"kitune\". Following several diachronic phonological changes, this becomes \"kitsune\".\n\nMany etymological suggestions have been made, though there is no general agreement:\n\n\"Kitsu\" is now archaic; in modern Japanese, a fox's cry is transcribed as \"kon kon\" or \"gon gon\".\n\nOne of the oldest surviving kitsune tales provides a widely known folk etymology of the word \"kitsune\". Unlike most tales of kitsune who become human and marry human males, this one does not end tragically:\n\nBecause the fox returns to her husband each night as a woman but leaves each morning as a fox she is called Kitsune. In classical Japanese, \"kitsu-ne\" means \"come and sleep\", and \"ki-tsune\" means \"always comes\".\n\nKitsune are believed to possess superior intelligence, long life, and magical powers. They are a type of \"yōkai\"; the word \"kitsune\" is often translated as \"fox spirit\". However, this does not mean that kitsune are ghosts, nor that they are fundamentally different from regular foxes. Because the word \"spirit\" is used to reflect a state of knowledge or enlightenment, all long-lived foxes gain supernatural abilities.\n\nThere are two common classifications of kitsune:\n\n\nLocal traditions add further types. For example, a \"ninko\" is an invisible fox spirit that human beings can only perceive when it possesses them.\nPhysically, kitsune are noted for having as many as nine tails. Generally, a greater number of tails indicates an older and more powerful fox; in fact, some folktales say that a fox will only grow additional tails after it has lived 100 years. One, five, seven, and nine tails are the most common numbers in folk stories. When a kitsune gains its ninth tail, its fur becomes white or gold. These gain the abilities to see and hear anything happening anywhere in the world. Other tales credit them with infinite wisdom (omniscience). After reaching 1,000 years of age and gaining its ninth tail, a kitsune turns a golden color, becoming a , the most powerful form of the kitsune, and then ascends to the heavens.\n\nA kitsune may take on human form, an ability learned when it reaches a certain age—usually 100 years, although some tales say 50. As a common prerequisite for the transformation, the fox must place reeds, a leaf, or a skull over its head. Common forms assumed by kitsune include beautiful women, young girls, elderly men, and even young boys. These shapes are not limited by the fox's age or gender, and a kitsune can duplicate the appearance of a specific person. Foxes are particularly renowned for impersonating beautiful women. Common belief in medieval Japan was that any woman encountered alone, especially at dusk or night, could be a fox. \"Kitsune-gao\" or \"fox-faced\" refers to human females who have a narrow face with close-set eyes, thin eyebrows, and high cheekbones. Traditionally, this facial structure is considered attractive, and some tales ascribe it to foxes in human form. Variants on the theme have the kitsune retain other foxlike traits, such as a coating of fine hair, a fox-shaped shadow, or a reflection that shows its true form.\n\nIn some stories, kitsune have difficulty hiding their tails when they take human form; looking for the tail, perhaps when the fox gets drunk or careless, is a common method of discerning the creature's true nature. A particularly devout individual may even be able to see through a fox's disguise merely by perceiving them. Kitsune can also be exposed while in human form by their fear and hatred of dogs, and some become so rattled by their presence that they revert to the form of a fox and flee.\n\nOne folk story illustrating these imperfections in the kitsune's human shape concerns Koan, a historical person credited with wisdom and magical powers of divination. According to the story, he was staying at the home of one of his devotees when he scalded his foot entering a bath because the water had been drawn too hot. Then, \"in his pain, he ran out of the bathroom naked. When the people of the household saw him, they were astonished to see that Koan had fur covering much of his body, along with a fox's tail. Then Koan transformed in front of them, becoming an elderly fox and running away.\"\n\nOther supernatural abilities commonly attributed to the kitsune include possession, generating fire or lightning, willful manifestation in the dreams of others, flight, invisibility, and the creation of illusions so elaborate as to be almost indistinguishable from reality. Some tales speak of kitsune with even greater powers, able to bend time and space, drive people mad, or take fantastic shapes such as an incredibly tall tree or a second moon in the sky. Other kitsune have characteristics reminiscent of vampires or succubi and feed on the life or spirit of human beings, generally through sexual contact.\n\n, also written \"kitsune-tsuki\", literally means \"the state of being possessed by a fox\". The victim is usually a young woman, whom the fox enters beneath her fingernails or through her breasts. In some cases, the victims' facial expressions are said to change in such a way that they resemble those of a fox. Japanese tradition holds that fox possession can cause illiterate victims to temporarily gain the ability to read. Though foxes in folklore can possess a person of their own will, kitsunetsuki is often attributed to the malign intents of hereditary fox employers.\n\nFolklorist Lafcadio Hearn describes the condition:\nHe goes on to note that, once freed from the possession, the victim will never again be able to eat tofu, \"azukimeshi\", or other foods favored by foxes:\nIn Japan, kitsunetsuki was noted as a disease as early as the Heian period and remained a common diagnosis for mental illness until the early 20th century. Possession was the explanation for the abnormal behavior displayed by the afflicted individuals. In the late 19th century, Dr. Shunichi Shimamura noted that physical diseases that caused fever were often considered kitsunetsuki. The belief has lost favor, but stories of fox possession still occur, such as allegations that members of the Aum Shinrikyo cult had been possessed.\n\nIn medicine, kitsunetsuki is a culture-bound syndrome unique to Japanese culture. Those who suffer from the condition believe they are possessed by a fox. Symptoms include cravings for rice or sweet adzuki beans, listlessness, restlessness, and aversion to eye contact. Kitsunetsuki is similar to but distinct from clinical lycanthropy.\n\nIn folk religion, stories of fox possession can be found in all lands of Japan. Those possessed by a fox are thought to suffer from a mental illness-like condition.\n\nThere are families that tell of protective fox spirits, and in certain regions, possession by a kuda-gitsune, osaki, yako, and hitogitsune are also called \"kitsunetsuki.\" These families are said to have been able to use their fox to gain fortune, but marriage into such a family was considered forbidden as it would enlarge the family. They are also said to be able to bring about illness and curse the possessions, crops, and livestock of ones that they hate, and as a result of being considered taboo by the other families, it has led to societal problems.\n\nThe great amount of faith given to foxes can be seen in how, as a result of the Inari belief where foxes were believed to be Inari no Kami or its servant, they were employed in practices of dakini-ten by mikkyō practitioners and shugendō practitioners and in the oracles of miko and other practitioners, and the customs related to kitsunetsuki can be seen as having developed in such a religious background.\n\nDepictions of kitsune or their possessed victims may feature round white balls known as . Tales describe these as glowing with kitsunebi. Some stories identify them as magical jewels or pearls. When not in human form or possessing a human, a kitsune keeps the ball in its mouth or carries it on its tail. Jewels are a common symbol of Inari, and representations of sacred Inari foxes without them are rare.\n\nOne belief is that when a \"kitsune\" changes shape, its \"hoshi no tama\" holds a portion of its magical power. Another tradition is that the pearl represents the kitsune's soul; the kitsune will die if separated from it for long. Those who obtain the ball may be able to extract a promise from the \"kitsune\" to help them in exchange for its return. For example, a 12th-century tale describes a man using a fox's \"hoshi no tama\" to secure a favor:\n\n\"Confound you!\" snapped the fox. \"Give me back my ball!\" The man ignored its pleas till finally it said tearfully, \"All right, you've got the ball, but you don't know how to keep it. It won't be any good to you. For me, it's a terrible loss. I tell you, if you don't give it back, I'll be your enemy forever. If you \"do\" give it back though, I'll stick to you like a protector god.\"\n\nThe fox later saves his life by leading him past a band of armed robbers.\n\nEmbedded in Japanese folklore as they are, kitsune appear in numerous Japanese works. Noh, kyogen, bunraku, and kabuki plays derived from folk tales feature them, as do contemporary works such as anime, manga and video games. Japanese metal idol band Babymetal refer to the kitsune myth in their lyrics and include the use of fox masks, hand signs, and animation interludes during live shows. Western authors of fiction have also made use of the kitsune legends.\n\nKitsune are associated with Inari, the Shinto deity of rice. This association has reinforced the fox's supernatural significance. Originally, kitsune were Inari's messengers, but the line between the two is now blurred so that Inari Ōkami may be depicted as a fox. Likewise, entire shrines are dedicated to kitsune, where devotees can leave offerings. Fox spirits are said to be particularly fond of a fried sliced tofu called \"aburage\", which is accordingly found in the noodle-based dishes kitsune udon and kitsune soba. Similarly, \"Inari-zushi\" is a type of sushi named for Inari Ōkami that consists of rice-filled pouches of fried tofu. There is speculation among folklorists as to whether another Shinto fox deity existed in the past. Foxes have long been worshipped as \"kami\".\n\nInari's kitsune are white, a color of good omen. They possess the power to ward off evil, and they sometimes serve as guardian spirits. In addition to protecting Inari shrines, they are petitioned to intervene on behalf of the locals and particularly to aid against troublesome \"nogitsune\", those spirit foxes who do not serve Inari. Black foxes and nine-tailed foxes are likewise considered good omens.\n\nAccording to beliefs derived from \"fusui\" (\"feng shui\"), the fox's power over evil is such that a mere statue of a fox can dispel the evil \"kimon\", or energy, that flows from the northeast. Many Inari shrines, such as the famous Fushimi Inari shrine in Kyoto, feature such statues, sometimes large numbers of them.\n\nKitsune are connected to the Buddhist religion through the Dakiniten, goddesses conflated with Inari's female aspect. Dakiniten is depicted as a female boddhisattva wielding a sword and riding a flying white fox.\n\nKitsune are often presented as tricksters, with motives that vary from mischief to malevolence. Stories tell of kitsune playing tricks on overly proud samurai, greedy merchants, and boastful commoners, while the crueler ones abuse poor tradesmen and farmers or devout Buddhist monks. Their victims are usually men; women are possessed instead. For example, kitsune are thought to employ their kitsunebi to lead travelers astray in the manner of a will o' the wisp. Another tactic is for the kitsune to confuse its target with illusions or visions. Other common goals of trickster kitsune include seduction, theft of food, humiliation of the prideful, or vengeance for a perceived slight.\n\nA traditional game called \"kitsune-ken\" (\"fox-fist\") references the kitsune's powers over human beings. The game is similar to rock, paper, scissors, but the three hand positions signify a fox, a hunter, and a village headman. The headman beats the hunter, whom he outranks; the hunter beats the fox, whom he shoots; the fox beats the headman, whom he bewitches.\n\nThis ambiguous portrayal, coupled with their reputation for vengefulness, leads people to try to discover a troublesome fox's motives. In one case, the 16th-century leader Toyotomi Hideyoshi wrote a letter to the \"kami\" Inari:\n\nKitsune keep their promises and strive to repay any favor. Occasionally a kitsune attaches itself to a person or household, where they can cause all sorts of mischief. In one story from the 12th century, only the homeowner's threat to exterminate the foxes convinces them to behave. The kitsune patriarch appears in the man's dreams:\nOther kitsune use their magic for the benefit of their companion or hosts as long as the human beings treat them with respect. As \"yōkai\", however, kitsune do not share human morality, and a kitsune who has adopted a house in this manner may, for example, bring its host money or items that it has stolen from the neighbors. Accordingly, common households thought to harbor kitsune are treated with suspicion. Oddly, samurai families were often reputed to share similar arrangements with kitsune, but these foxes were considered \"zenko\" and the use of their magic a sign of prestige. Abandoned homes were common haunts for kitsune. One 12th-century story tells of a minister moving into an old mansion only to discover a family of foxes living there. They first try to scare him away, then claim that the house \"has been ours for many years, and ... we wish to register a vigorous protest.\" The man refuses, and the foxes resign themselves to moving to an abandoned lot nearby.\n\nTales distinguish kitsune gifts from kitsune payments. If a kitsune offers a payment or reward that includes money or material wealth, part or all of the sum will consist of old paper, leaves, twigs, stones, or similar valueless items under a magical illusion. True kitsune gifts are usually intangibles, such as protection, knowledge, or long life.\n\nKitsune are commonly portrayed as lovers, usually in stories involving a young human male and a kitsune who takes the form of a human woman. The kitsune may be a seductress, but these stories are more often romantic in nature. Typically, the young man unknowingly marries the fox, who proves a devoted wife. The man eventually discovers the fox's true nature, and the fox-wife is forced to leave him. In some cases, the husband wakes as if from a dream, filthy, disoriented, and far from home. He must then return to confront his abandoned family in shame.\n\nMany stories tell of fox-wives bearing children. When such progeny are human, they possess special physical or supernatural qualities that often pass to their own children. The astrologer-magician Abe no Seimei was reputed to have inherited such extraordinary powers.\n\nOther stories tell of kitsune marrying one another. Rain falling from a clear sky — a sunshower — is called \"kitsune no yomeiri\" or \"the kitsune's wedding\", in reference to a folktale describing a wedding ceremony between the creatures being held during such conditions. The event is considered a good omen, but the kitsune will seek revenge on any uninvited guests, as is depicted in the 1990 Akira Kurosawa film \"Dreams\".\n\nStephen Turnbull, in \"Nagashino 1575\", relates the tale of the Takeda clan's involvement with a fox-woman. The warlord Takeda Shingen, in 1544, defeated in battle a lesser local warlord named Suwa Yorishige and drove him to suicide after a \"humiliating and spurious\" peace conference, after which Shingen forced marriage on Suwa Yorishige's beautiful 14-year-old daughter Lady Koi—Shingen's own niece. Shingen, Turnbull writes, \"was so obsessed with the girl that his superstitious followers became alarmed and believed her to be an incarnation of the white fox-spirit of the Suwa Shrine, who had bewitched him in order to gain revenge.\" When their son Takeda Katsuyori proved to be a disastrous leader and led the clan to their devastating defeat at the battle of Nagashino, Turnbull writes, \"wise old heads nodded, remembering the unhappy circumstances of his birth and his magical mother\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12244510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12244510", "title": "La Juderia", "text": "La Juderia\n\nLa Juderia, (), was the former Jewish quarter of the city of Rhodes, Greece. The quarter was inhabited by Sephardic, Ladino-speaking Jews.\n\nAlthough there has been a Jewish presence of some sort on the island of Rhodes for nearly 2,000 years, the inhabitants of La Juderia did not arrive until the 16th century, after they were expelled from Spain. The Jews of Rhodes prospered until the persecutions of Italian Fascism began in the 1930s, and at its peak the population of the Jewish quarter was more than 4,000.\n\nLa Juderia is located in the eastern part of the Old City of Rhodes, near a pier used by cruise ships. It is primarily centered on the Dossiadou Street where the Kahal Shalom Synagogue, the lone remaining Jewish house of worship on the island of the six that once stood, is located, along with the Jewish Museum of Rhodes. Other features in the quarter include the Square of the Martyred Jews, which pays tribute to the Jews of Rhodes who died in the Holocaust, located near the heart of the neighborhood, the Alliance Israélite Universelle school, the former site of the Kahal Grande Synagogue, and a number of plaques throughout the quarter in Ladino, Hebrew and Italian. Outside the Juderia is the Jewish cemetery of Rhodes, which dates from the 16th century and is one of the best preserved in Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "43145620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43145620", "title": "Laqlouq", "text": "Laqlouq\n\nLaqlouq (), also spelled \"Laklouk\" and also known as ′Arab Laqlouq () is a small mountainous village in mountainous area in the Jbeil District of Mount Lebanon Governorate, Lebanon. It is located 69 kilometers northeast of Beirut. Laqlouq has an average elevation of 1,780 meters above sea level and a total land area of 210 hectares. Sunni Muslims, in contrast to the majority of Jbeil District's population, which is largely Maronite Christian with a significant Shia Muslim minority.\n\nLaqlouq was founded in the 18th century by Arabs who are known today as \"′Arab al-Laqlouq\". Their presence dates back to the era of Emir Bashir Shihab II, who granted the village residents their lands and who vacationed there in the summer months. The original residents are generally poorer than the newer arrivals who immigrated to the village from nearby areas.\n\nVisitors to Laqlouq in 1957 reported having a disturbed night whilst camping near the village due to gunfire and explosions as the district celebrated the release from prison of local land owner Sheikh Georges Beg Yussef. He had been sentenced to life in prison in Cairo for drug smuggling. His release was secured by local politician Hamid Beik Frangieh who had personally lobbied Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser on Yussef's behalf.\n\nToday, most of Laqlouq's working inhabitants are employed in trade in the coastal cities of Beirut or Tripoli, while local livestock owners graze their herds in the coastal rural areas. The village's main economic sector is agriculture, but its harvests are seasonally dependent, namely during the summer and fall, which is why most working residents are employed outside the village during the rest of the year. The main crops are apples, plums and vegetables.\n\nLaqlouq's municipal council consisting of nine members, headed by a chairman, who was Ahmad Khodr as of 2007. It also is administered by a village council, which has three members led by a mayor, who was Hasan Salim as of 2007. The village council of Salim was elected in 1998. With the exception of a locally funded summer school, there are no educational institutions in the village, whose municipal projects have been hindered due to a lack of revenue.\n"}
{"id": "54178957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54178957", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Estonia", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Estonia\n\nThe Catholic Church in Estonia (a Baltic former Soviet republic, like Latvia and Lithuania) presently comprises only a pre-diocesan Latin rite jurisdiction, covering (only) the entire country :\n\nThere are no Eastern Catholic or other Latin prelatures.\n\nThere formally is an Apostolic Nunciature (papal diplomatic representation, embassy-level) to Estonia, but it's vested (like that to Latvia) in the Apostolic Nunciature to Lithuania in its national capital Vilnius.\n\nThere are no titular sees. \n\n<br>None of the following has a current direct successor in Estonia, some (at least canonically) one abroad.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17190802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17190802", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Portugal", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Portugal\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Portugal is composed only of a Latin hierarchy, joint in the national episcopal conference of Portugal (Conferência Episcopal Portuguesa ), consisting of \n\nThere are no Eastern Catholic jurisdictions.\n\nThere is also an Apostolic Nunciature to Portugal as papal diplomatic representation (embassy-level), in the national capital Lisbon.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36851644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36851644", "title": "List of places of worship in Calgary", "text": "List of places of worship in Calgary\n\nThere are many places of worship in Calgary.\n\n"}
{"id": "3795672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3795672", "title": "Lokenath Brahmachari", "text": "Lokenath Brahmachari\n\nLokenath Brahmachari (24 June 1730 – 2 June 1890), born Lokenath Ghoshal also known as Baba Lokenath was a revered Hindu yogi and mystic who lived during the 18th and 19th century Bengal and resided for 26 years at the village Baradi, Dist: Narayanganj, Bangladesh.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27188552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27188552", "title": "Lord Saman-ana", "text": "Lord Saman-ana\n\nLord Saman-Ana (from Sumerian Saman-Ana: high vessal) in Sumerian mythology was one of the Heroes slain by Ninurta, patron god of Lagash, in ancient Iraq. Almost nothing else is mentioned of this \"hero\", his appearance is lacking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10139722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10139722", "title": "Lou Kenton", "text": "Lou Kenton\n\nLou Kenton (1 September 1908 – 17 September 2012) was an English proofreader who served as a medical courier and ambulance driver with the International Brigade and was its oldest surviving member at the time of his death.\n\nKenton was born in Stepney, east London to a Jewish Ukrainian family who had escaped from Tsarist pogroms. His father died from tuberculosis when he was young.\n\nKenton left school aged 14 and started work in a paper factory. There he first encountered anti-semitism, which led him to join the Communist Party of Great Britain in 1929. He took part in the CPGB's disruption of the British Union of Fascists' rally at Olympia in June 1934 and resistance to the BUF in the Battle of Cable Street in October 1936.\n\nEarly in 1937 Kenton left Stepney and rode his Douglas motorcycle to Albacete, where he join the International Brigades in the Spanish Civil War. His first wife Lillian, an Austrian nurse who fled Nazi Germany in 1933, shortly followed him. When he arrived at the International Brigades headquarters in Albacete, he applied to join the International Brigade's Medical Unit. It was from there that he spent nearly two years in action as medical courier on his motorcycle distributing medical supplies to hospitals across the country, and as an ambulance driver on the front lines. He returned to Britain late in 1938 on an 'Aid for Spain' mission to raise money for a new ambulance. By the time he had completed his tour, the International Brigades had been disbanded.\n\nAfter the International Brigades were withdrawn from Spain, Kenton was hugely depressed. One of his missions was to repatriate to the Spanish authorities the Basque refugees given asylum in the United Kingdom. It was \"the first time I saw the fascist police in their three-cornered hats. All the children were in tears and all of them were hanging on to me as we checked each one and handed them over.\"\nKenton then joined the Merchant Navy and in the first part of the Second World War served on an Antarctic whaler, the \"Southern Princess\". He and Lillian were divorced and in 1941 Kenton married his second wife Raffa Ephgrave. He was wounded in The Blitz, spent two years in hospital and then took a factory job. After the Lidice massacre in Czechoslovakia in 1942, Kenton joined the British \"Lidice Shall Live\" organisation. He was an active member for many years and in the 1990s served as its Chairman.\n\nAfter the Second World War, Kenton joined the Homes for Heroes campaign, which helped homeless ex-servicemen and their families to squat in unoccupied properties. He joined the \"Financial Times\" as a proofreader, and continued to work there until he was in his 70s.\n\nKenton remained a devout communist, working tirelessly on trade union organisation, unemployed marches and party activities until 1968 when the Prague Spring was suppressed by the Soviet Union. He then joined the Labour Party and remained a member for the rest of his life.\n\nFrom 1980 Kenton produced commemorative pottery for the trade union movement and for radical causes. His work was commissioned by Associated Society of Locomotive Engineers and Firemen, Tobacco Workers' Union, Society of Graphical and Allied Trades, Trades Union Congress, areas of the National Union of Mineworkers, the People's March for Jobs, the International Brigade, Greater London Council Peace Year, National Council for Civil Liberties, Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, and the Greenham Common women's campaign.\n\nKenton had two children and two granddaughters.\n\nOn 26 May 2009 it was announced that seven British pensioners were to be awarded Spanish passports at the Spanish Embassy in London on 9 June 2009. Kenton, then aged 101, was the eldest of them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28930923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28930923", "title": "Maria Esperanza de Bianchini", "text": "Maria Esperanza de Bianchini\n\nMaria Esperanza Medrano de Bianchini (November 22, 1928 – August 7, 2004), also known as Servant of God Maria Esperanza, was a Venezuelan mystic, in Barrancas in the State of Monagas near the Orinoco River. \n\nOn January 31, 2010, in the (Catholic) Cathedral of St Francis of Assisi in Metuchen, New Jersey, the case for the beatification and canonization of Maria Esperanza was opened by the Bishop Paul Bootkoski of the Diocese of Metuchen, which act gave her the title Servant of God. Maria's Marian Apparitions were approved at the local level by the bishop, but not by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, which has only approved 12 apparitions to date.\n\nBorn on November 22, 1928, in Barrancas, Venezuela, Bianchini was the mother of seven children and grandmother of 20 children.\n\nBelievers claim that, while at one point Maria Esperanza considered becoming a nun, it was revealed to her in a vision on October 3, 1954 that her calling was to the married life. It is said that in this vision of St. John Bosco, the saint told her she would first encounter her spouse on November 1, 1955, which she reportedly did. She was particularly devoted to St Thérèse of Lisieux – the “Little Flower”. Believers hold that, from her youth, she lived a life of virtue and fidelity to God and received the gifts of supernatural knowledge, healing, visions, discernment of spirits, locution, ecstasy, levitation, the odor of sanctity, the stigmata, and the ability to read the hearts of others. Witnesses claim to have seen her levitating during mass and engaging in bilocation. Her legend also recounts that Maria received the spiritual direction and the mantle of Saint Padre Pio, and received in the presence of her husband a bilocated visitation from the saint the day before he died.\n\nIn 1979 she created the Betania Foundation, a lay movement designed to evangelize, educate and develop the well-being of society and family life and promote social justice. Her family continues the mission of the foundation.\n\nBianchini reportedly first saw an apparition of Mary in 1976, but she became a world-renowned figure after Mary reportedly appeared to her and 150 others at a farm named Finca Betania in Venezuela on March 25, 1984. Mary is said to have appeared under the title “Mary, Virgin and Mother, Reconciler of all Peoples and Nations.” The apparition was deemed valid by Bishop Pio Bello Ricardo of Los Teques, Venezuela, in 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "50819430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50819430", "title": "Max Kalish", "text": "Max Kalish\n\nMax Kalish (March 1, 1891 – 1945) was American sculptor born in Valozhyn, Belarus, and best known for his sculptures of laborers. \n\nHis Orthodox Jewish family emigrated to Cleveland, Ohio in 1893, when he was two years old.\n\nHe studied with Herman Matzen at the Cleveland School of Art; in New York City with Herbert Adams at the National Academy of Design, and in the studios of Alexander Stirling Calder and Isidore Konti; and in Paris with Paul Wayland Bartlett at the Académie Colorossi, and Jean Antoine Injalbert at the École des Beaux-Arts.\n\nHis best known work is his 1932 statue of Abraham Lincoln in Cleveland, Ohio.\n\nWashington, D.C. publisher Willard M. Kiplinger commissioned Kalish to create fifty portrait statuettes of prominent figures in World War II era politics, arts and sciences. Kiplinger donated the statuettes to the Smithsonian Institution in 1944.\n\nKalish was the author of \"Labor Sculpture\", largely a collection of photographs of his statues of workers. Most of the works in the book are in a Social realism style. Critic Emily Genauer wrote in 1938, \"It is the workmen who dominate the American scene, and who have become as surely symbolic of their time as the pioneers in covered wagons, and the robber barons and the great merchant princes were in there respective eras.\" This was what Kalish portrayed in his art. \n\nIn 1939, Kalish lived in New York City and summered in Cleveland.\n\nExamples of Kalish’s work can be found in:\n"}
{"id": "29635206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29635206", "title": "Meditative postures", "text": "Meditative postures\n\nVarious meditative postures have been used in meditation. Sitting, supine (lying), and standing postures are used.\n\nThe bodily positions applied during Yoga are found at the Wikipedia page Asana. Most well known in the Buddhist and Hindu traditions, as well as in their modern forms, are the full-lotus, half-lotus, Burmese, and kneeling positions.\n\nMeditation can also be practiced while walking, such as kinhin, or doing simple repetitive tasks, as in Zen samu, or work which encourages mindfulness.\n\nCross legged sitting helps create a stable base for meditation. Several seated asanas are practiced such as full-lotus, half-lotus, easy crossed legs, or siddhasana (\"perfect pose\"). Sitting on the heels is possible, among other positions. Seated meditation cushions are often used to help extend meditative time and serve to elevate the hips and spine into proper alignment\n\nSitting cross-legged (or upon one's knees) for extended periods when one is not sufficiently limber, can result in a range of ergonomic complaints called \"meditator's knee\". These are common and may be endured for long periods of time in extensive meditation retreats, however caution is often advised, and the guidance of an instructor or 'guru' is often sought extensively.\n\nIn the full-lotus, half-lotus and Burmese positions, used in Buddhism and Hinduism, it is often said that the spinal column must be kept \"straight,\" that is, the individual should sit erect but relaxed, by balancing the torso such that the spinal column supports it in a natural way. One should feel comfortable and rest in a simple and unstrained way.\n\nSitting on a cushion that elevates the pelvis as high as or higher than the knees and then slightly rolling the pelvis forward makes it easier to keep the spine upright. It is said in multiple traditions that the chin should be slightly tucked in, the tongue pressed against the roof of the mouth, lips lightly pressed together shoulders back.\n\nThose traditions related to kundalini yoga, take a less formal approach. While the basic practice in these traditions is also to sit still quietly in a traditional posture, they emphasize the possibility of kriyas – spontaneous yogic postures, changes in breathing patterns or emotional states, or perhaps repetitive physical movements such as swaying, etc., which may naturally arise as the practitioner sits in meditation, and which should not be resisted but rather allowed to express themselves to enhance the natural flow of energy through the body. This is said to help purify the nadis and ultimately deepen one's meditative practice.\n\nCross-legged postures, especially those such as the full-lotus, may be difficult due to a lack of familiarization. Most Westerners are not used to sitting in cross-legged positions for extended periods of time. For this reason Westerners are often advised to use a chair or a bench until they are ready for the traditional cross-legged positions. Yoga and stretching also are applicable as a means of developing the flexibility needed for the cross-legged postures.\n\nIf practiced routinely and done correctly, full-lotus is easy to maintain for long periods of time without discomfort, as muscular effort is used only keep the spine balanced, and not to support the weight of the torso. Often this posture is explained as a way of encouraging the circulation of what some call \"spiritual energy,\" the \"vital breath\", the \"life force\" (Sanskrit \"prana\", Chinese \"qi\", Latin \"spiritus\") or the Kundalini. It is said that one's meditation will not be as good if one's posture is not so good.\n\nIn various traditions people meditate by sitting on a chair, flat-footed and without back support (as in New Thought); sitting on a stool (as in Orthodox Christianity); or walking (in Therevada Buddhism); or walking in mindfulness, which is known as kinhin (in Zen Buddhism).\n\nVarious hand-gestures or mudras may be prescribed in meditation. In Vajrayana Buddhism mudras carry symbolic meaning. According to Yogic philosophy the mudras affect consciousness, mood and energy.\n\nFor instance in Buddhist meditation the hands are often held with the right resting atop the left and thumbs touching. Some traditions hold say that each finger is associated with a different sensitivity and that the finger endings, lock into mudras, create subtle energy shifts due to these different energy circuit connections. Pressing on finger endings also stimulates brain sections relating to different qualities – which a practitioner may want to enhance through meditation to invoke specific effects or changes. Other traditions hold that the right on top of left symbolizes the state of samsara while many common depictions of The Buddha have that he holds his left on top of right, due to his enlightenment.\n\nIn some schools such as Zen, the eyes are half-closed and half-open, looking slightly downward. In others such as Brahma Kumaris, the eyes are kept fully open. In other traditions the eyelids are kept 1/10 or barely open depending on what drishti the meditation instructs. Drishti refers to eye focus in kundalini yoga and means \"vision\" or \"insight\" in Sanskrit. Pictures of saints in meditation may reflect different eye postures, and different meditations may call for staring into a saint's eyes, a candle flame, or some other object of focus, which is known as trataka meditation.\n\nIn Sufism, meditating (muraqaba) with the eyes closed is called Varood and keeping them open is known as Shahood or Fa'tha.\n\nOften such details are shared by more than one religion, even in cases where mutual influence seems unlikely. One example is \"navel-gazing,\" which is apparently attested to within Eastern Orthodoxy as well as Chinese qigong practice. Another is the practice of focusing on the breath, found in Orthodox Christianity, Sufism, and numerous Indic traditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2335219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2335219", "title": "Militia Templi", "text": "Militia Templi\n\nThe Militia Templi (), also called the Order of the Poor Knights of Christ (), is a lay order of the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThe Militia Templi is a Roman Catholic private association of the faithful that celebrates its liturgy according to the traditional form in place in 1962, often referred to as the Tridentine Mass.\n\nFounded by the Italian Count Marcello Alberto Cristofani della Magione under the authority of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Siena-Colle di Val d'Elsa-Montalcino, the Militia Templi's focus is knightly and monastic and members follow a modern adaptation of the Rule written by St. Bernard of Clairvaux for the medieval Knights Templar. The order makes no claims of direct descent from the old Knights Templar and holds that, when made, such self-styled claims are both historically and canonically false.\n\nThe Militia was formed civilly and with the approval of the local ordinary on September 21, 1979. Its constitutions were approved on Sept. 8, 1988 by the Archbishop of Siena Mario Jsmaele Castellano. The next Archbishop, Gaetano Bonicelli approved the Rule of the Militia in 1990. The Cardinal Protectors of the Militia Templi were Silvio Oddi, Édouard Gagnon and Alfons Maria Stickler. The current Protector is the Right Reverend Phillip Lawrence,OSB, Abbot of the Benedictine Monastery of Christ in the Desert located in New Mexico, USA.\n\nAccording to its constitutions, the Militia has both married and celibate members. Professed Knights consecrate themselves perpetually to the Militia with the investiture and the promise to observe the three classic evangelical counsels as well as the public testimony of faith (fourth promise). The knights engage in different apostolates organized at the Preceptory and commandry level, each Knight is required to provide some type of service to the Church. They are obliged to live by their Rule and recite daily the Hours of the traditional Divine Office, do at least of quarter of an hour of mental prayer a day, go to confession monthly, make several annual retreats, have a spiritual director, engage in an apostolate, and perform the Ignatian exercises every 2 years. Their members include several hundred Knights, 10 national preceptories, many local priorates and scout groups.\n\nThe order's Magistral See, or headquarters, is situated in the Castello della Magione. It is a former Templar compound that lies in the village of Poggibonsi in the Tuscany region of Italy. Built in the 11th century, the castle was donated by its owners; Gottifredo di Arnolfo and Arnolfino di Cristofano to the monks of the Saint Michael Abbey in Poggio Marturi who later bestowed it to the Templars for use as one of their numerous \"Mansiones\" or \"Domus Templi\" along the Via Francigena. After 1312 the Castello della Magione passed through many hands, including the Hospitallers and the Princess Corsini, until, in 1979 it was purchased by Count Marcello Alberto Cristofani della Magione, the founder and current Grand Master of the Militia Templi. Attached to the castle is a church, also restored, with impressive Burgundian-Cistercian influence and is used daily by the order for the community recitation of Vespers and the celebration of the Tridentine Mass.\n\nThe symbol of the Militiae Templi is a red eight-pointed (\"octagonal\") cross, symbol of the Eight Beatitudes of the Gospel, while the symbol is a white flag with red octagonal cross. The cross is not to be confused with that of the medieval Knights Hospitaller, which is known as the Maltese Cross. The habit of the Professed Knights is white and consists of a tunic, a scapular with cowl and the octagonal red cross on the chest, and a mantle with the same cross on the left shoulder. Ladies wear a white mantle and a white veil with a donat's cross (without the top section). Chaplains are dressed with a white Mozzetta with red edge, red buttons and an octagonal red cross on the left front part. The Oblati (Knights and Ladies of Devotion) have a gray mantle with the red octagonal cross on the left shoulder.\n\nThe Militia Templi through Preceptories or Magistral Legations, is currently present in the following countries: Italy, Australia, Austria, Canada, Germany, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Ireland, Poland, Romania, Spain, United States of America, Puerto Rico(1 Knight, 2 Novices), and Hungary.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4592181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4592181", "title": "Nankana Sahib District", "text": "Nankana Sahib District\n\nNankana Sahib District (Punjabi and ) is a district in the Punjab province of Pakistan. Nankana Sahib is the seat of the district government, and Shahkot is the largest urban center. The district of Nankana Sahib is located about west of Lahore and about east of Faisalabad.\n\nAccording to the 1998 census results, the most widely spoken first language in the Nankana Sahib Tehsil was Punjabi, accounting for % of the population, while Urdu was the native language of %. According 2017 census, total district population is 1,356,774 of which 1,110,321 residing in rural area and 246,053 in urban area.\n\nThe area around Nankana Sahib was formerly a tehsil of Sheikhupura District. In May 2005, the Punjab government decided to raise the status of Nankana Sahib to that of a district as a way of promoting development in the area, and investment from Indian Sikhs. \n\nDistrict Nankana Sahib is ranked at the 26th position in the education score index of the Pakistan District Education Rankings 2017 published by Alif Ailaan. The education score is composed of the learning score, retention score and gender parity score.\n\nIn the middle school infrastructure score index, which focuses on availability of basic facilities and the building condition of schools, Nankana Sahib ranks 51st.The facilities of electricity and drinking water in schools remain very good in the district with a 100% score. However, the building conditions are below average with a score of 45.07.\n\nOn the TaleemDo! App, majority residents of several areas within Nankana Sahib have complained about shortage of teachers available for schools and there is no access of transport available to schools located at larger distances.This issue is reported by a majority of female students.\n\nThe possibility of the development of a university, named after Guru Nanak, has been raised.\n\nThe Punjab government decided to link Nankana Sahib District with the provincial capital, Lahore. With these plans the Punjab government is completing \"Khanqah Dogran Interchange\" (on the M-2) very swiftly, which is a helpful project to develop the newly created District of Nankana Sahib. This will also give access to the Grand Trunk Road, which leads to the Indian Punjab from the Wagah border. Nankana Sahib-Amritsar bus was inaugurated by Ex-Prime Minister of India Manmohan Singh.\n"}
{"id": "47092779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47092779", "title": "Nuragic holy well", "text": "Nuragic holy well\n\nThe nuragic holy well is a typical Sardinian hypogean Bronze Age structure for the worship of the waters. Scattered throughout the island, along with the Giants' grave and the megaron temples, they testify to the deep religiosity of the Nuragic populations. These temples were a place of pilgrimage and ceremonies: it is believed that at certain times of year the various nuragic populations of the area gathered together in their vicinity.\n\nThe oldest temples were built in the style of the nuraghe, with blocks of stone not perfectly squared; over time they were built with a greater accuracy. The most common type is composed of a circular well built with blocks of stone, which was accessed by steps that descended to water level. They are a clear example of the architectural mastery of the nuragics and evidence of their reverence for water sources.\n\nIn the past it was thought that they were built between the eighth and sixth centuries BC; the latest findings, however, have led archaeologists to estimate that the temples date from the time when there was a close relationship between the Mycenaean kingdoms, Crete and Sardinia (around 1300 BC). An almost certain dating comes from recent excavations in the Holy Well of Funtana Coberta, near Ballao, which lack completely Iron Age nuragic ceramics, while there are finds from the Aegean. The Well of Ballao was probably built in the late Bronze Age and abandoned some centuries later.\n\n"}
{"id": "2065219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2065219", "title": "Our Lady of Mount Carmel", "text": "Our Lady of Mount Carmel\n\nOur Lady of Mount Carmel is the title given to the Blessed Virgin Mary in her role as patroness of the Carmelite Order. The first Carmelites were Christian hermits living on Mount Carmel in the Holy Land during the late 12th and early to mid-13th century. They built in the midst of their hermitages a chapel which they dedicated to the Blessed Virgin, whom they conceived of in chivalric terms as the \"Lady of the place.\" Our Lady of Mount Carmel was adopted in the 19th century as the patron saint of Chile, in South America.\n\nSince the 15th century, popular devotion to Our Lady of Mount Carmel has centered on the Scapular of Our Lady of Mount Carmel, also known as the Brown Scapular. Traditionally, Mary is said to have given the Scapular to an early Carmelite named Saint Simon Stock. The liturgical feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel is celebrated on 16 July.\n\nThe solemn liturgical feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel was probably first celebrated in England in the later part of the 14th century. Its object was thanksgiving to Mary, the patroness of the Carmelite Order, for the benefits she had accorded to it through its difficult early years. The institution of the feast may have come in the wake of the vindication of their title \"Brothers of the Blessed Virgin Mary\" at Cambridge, England in 1374. The date chosen was 17 July; on the European mainland this date conflicted with the feast of St. Alexis, requiring a shift to 16 July, which remains the Feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel throughout the Catholic Church. The Latin poem \"Flos Carmeli\" (meaning \"Flower of Carmel\") first appears as the sequence for this Mass.\n\nThe Carmelite Order was the only religious order to be started in the Crusader States. In the 13th century, some of its people migrated west to England, setting up a chapter and being documented there about 1241–1242. A tradition first attested to in the late 14th century says that Saint Simon Stock, believed to be an early English prior general of the Carmelite Order soon after its migration to England, had a vision of the Blessed Virgin Mary in which she gave him the Brown Scapular. This formed part of the Carmelite habit after 1287. In Stock's vision, Mary promised that those who died wearing the scapular would be saved. This is a devotional sacramental signifying the wearer's consecration to Mary and affiliation with the Carmelite order. It symbolizes her special protection and calls the wearers to consecrate themselves to her in a special way.\n\nIn 1642, a Carmelite named Fr. John Cheron published a document which he said was a 13th-century letter written by Saint Simon Stock's secretary, Peter Swanington. Since the early 20th century, historians have concluded that this letter was forged, likely by Cheron himself.\n\nBut Stock's vision was long embraced by many promoters of the scapular devotion. The forged Swanington letter claimed that 16 July 1251 was the date of the vision (16 July being the date of the Feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel), which led for centuries to a strong association between this feast day and the scapular devotion. Based on available historical documentation, the liturgical feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel did not originally have a specific association with the Brown Scapular or the tradition of Stock's vision of the Blessed Virgin Mary. This tradition grew gradually, as did the liturgical cult of St. Simon. The latter has been documented in Bordeaux, where Stock died, from the year 1435; in Ireland and England, from 1458; and in the rest of the Order, from 1564. Historians have long questioned whether Stock had the vision of Mary and the scapular. Although Simon Stock was never officially canonized, his feast day was celebrated in the church. The Carmelite convent of Aylesford, England, was restored and a relic of Saint Simon Stock was placed there in 1951. The saint's feast is celebrated in the places dedicated to him.\n\nAlso associated with Our Lady of Carmel was a papal bull saying that there was a \"Sabbatine privilege\" associated with devotion to the saint; that is, until the late 1970s, the Catholic liturgy for that day mentioned the scapular devotion. Vatican II resulted in scrutiny of the Feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel, as well as that of Saint Simon Stock, because of the historical uncertainties about the origins. The liturgies were revised and, in the 21st century, neither, even in the Carmelite proper, makes reference to the scapular. \nIn Spain and other Spanish-speaking countries, there has been particular devotion to Our Lady of Mount Carmel, who has been adopted as a patron saint of several places, as she has been in other Catholic-majority countries. In addition, Carmen and María del Carmen have been popular given names for girls in Spanish-speaking countries. An annual festival, known as \"Mamacha Carmen,\" is held in the highland Paucartambo District, Peru, featuring a procession with the Virgin and traditional dancers. Veneration of the Virgen del Carmen (often also associated with the Stella Maris) is particularly strong in coastal towns of Spain.\n\nThe Carmelites consider the Blessed Virgin Mary to be a perfect model of the interior life of prayer and contemplation to which Carmelites aspire, as well as a model of virtue, in the person who was closest in life to Jesus Christ. She is seen as the one who points Christians most surely to Christ. As she says to the servants at the wedding at Cana, \"Do whatever he [Jesus] tells you.\" Carmelites look to the Virgin Mary as a Spiritual Mother. The Stella Maris Monastery (Star of the Sea) on Mount Carmel, named after a traditional title of the Blessed Virgin Mary, is considered the spiritual headquarters of the order.\n\nFr. Gabriel of St. Mary Magdalene de' Pazzi, OCD, a revered authority on Carmelite spirituality, wrote that devotion to Our Lady of Mount Carmel means:\nA 1996 doctrinal statement approved by the Congregation for Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments states that \n\"Devotion to Our Lady of Mount Carmel is bound to the history and spiritual values of the Order of the Brothers of the Blessed Virgin Mary of Mount Carmel and is expressed through the scapular. Thus, whoever receives the scapular becomes a member of the order and pledges him/herself to live according to its spirituality in accordance with the characteristics of his/her state in life.\"\n\nAccording to the Church on the Brown Scapular: \n\"The scapular is a Marian habit or garment. It is both a sign and pledge. A sign of belonging to Mary; a pledge of her motherly protection, not only in this life but after death. As a sign, it is a conventional sign signifying three elements strictly joined: first, belonging to a religious family particularly devoted to Mary, especially dear to Mary, the Carmelite Order; second, consecration to Mary, devotion to and trust in her Immaculate Heart; third, an urge to become like Mary by imitating her virtues, above all her humility, chastity, and spirit of prayer.\"\n\nSince the Middle Ages, Our Lady of Mount Carmel has been related to Purgatory, where souls are purged of sins in the fires. In some images, she is portrayed as accompanied with angels and souls wearing Brown Scapulars, who plead for her mediation. In 1613, the Church forbade images to be made of Our Lady of Mt. Carmel descending into purgatory, due to errors being preached about certain privileges associated with the Brown Scapular (known as \"the Sabbatine Privilege\").\n\nThat privilege appears in the noted Decree of the Holy Office (1613). It was inserted in its entirety (except for the words forbidding the painting of the pictures) into the list of the indulgences and privileges of the Confraternity of the Scapular of Mount Carmel. In the 21st century, the Carmelites do not promote the Sabbatine Privilege. They encourage a belief in Mary's general aid and prayerful assistance for their souls beyond death, especially her aid to those who devoutly wear the Brown Scapular, and commend devotion to Mary especially on Saturdays, which are dedicated to her.\n\nOur Lady of Mount Carmel was seen in the apparitions of Cova da Iria in Fátima, Portugal, by Lúcia Santos and her co-visionary companions Jacinta and Francisco Marto and many others among the 70,000 witnesses of the extraordinary events during the Miracle of the Sun. She also appeared to Saint Simon Stock to whom she gave the Brown Scapular. The Garabandal apparitions, in Spain, were reported to be images of the Blessed Virgin Mary of Mount Carmel.\nAcquafondata, Italy, the apparition of the Virgin of Mount Carmel, on July 16, 1841. There is today a small sanctuary on the site.\n\nIn Palmi, Italy, the anniversary of the earthquake of 1894 is observed annually on 16 November. The earthquake had its epicenter in the city. An associated event has been classified as the \"miracle of Our Lady of Mount Carmel.\" For 17 days preceding this earthquake, many of the faithful had reported strange eye movements and changes in the coloring of the face in a statue of Our Lady of Mount Carmel. The local and national press reported these occurrences.\n\nIn the evening of 16 November, the faithful improvised a procession carrying the statue of the Virgin of Carmel on their shoulders through the streets. When the procession reached the end of the city, a violent earthquake shook the whole district of Palmi, ruining most of the old houses along the way. But, only nine people died out of a population of about 15,000 inhabitants, as almost all of the population had been on the street to watch the procession and were not trapped inside the destroyed buildings. Therefore, the city commemorates the 1894 procession each year, accompanied by firecrackers, lights, and festive stalls.\n\nThe Catholic Church has officially recognized the miracle. On November 16, 1896 the statue of the Virgin was crowned, based on the decree issued September 22, 1895 by the Vatican Chapter.\n\nThe first atomic bomb was exploded in the United States at the Trinity test site on 16 July 1945, near Alamogordo, New Mexico. The Catholic anti-war movement has built on the coincidence between this date and the Feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel. In 1990, the Rev. Emmanuel Charles McCarthy, a priest of the Eastern Rite (Byzantine-Melkite) of the Catholic Church, initiated the \"16 July Twenty-Four Hours Day of Prayer,\" for Forgiveness and Protection with Our Lady of Mount Carmel, at Trinity Site in the New Mexico desert. Each year on 16 July, a prayer vigil is conducted at the Trinity site to pray for peace and the elimination of nuclear weapons.\n\nStatues of Our Lady of Mount Carmel usually depict her with a Brown scapular.\n\n"}
{"id": "1461300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1461300", "title": "Peter H. Gilmore", "text": "Peter H. Gilmore\n\nPeter Howard Gilmore (born May 24, 1958) is an American composer, artist, and author. He is the high priest of the Church of Satan and author of \"The Satanic Scriptures\". Gilmore graduated from NYU with both a bachelor's and master's degree in music composition.\n\nHe was appointed High Priest of the Church in 2001 by Magistra Blanche Barton. As a representative of the Church of Satan, Gilmore has been interviewed on numerous television and radio programs dealing with the topic of Satanism, including appearances on History, the BBC, Syfy, \"Point of Inquiry\", and Bob Larson's Christian radio show.\n\nGilmore was raised in upstate New York. He visited New York City regularly throughout his youth and moved to Hell's Kitchen in 1980. He read \"The Satanic Bible\" at age thirteen and has described The Church of Satan as \"the motivating philosophical force in my life\" ever since.\n\nIn 1989, he and his wife Peggy Nadramia began publishing a Satanic journal, \"The Black Flame\", and continues to publish issues sporadically. In 2005, Gilmore wrote the new introduction to Anton LaVey's \"The Satanic Bible\", and his essay on Satanism was published in \"The Encyclopedia of Religion and Nature\".\n\nIn Walpurgis Night 2007, a hard cover edition of \"The Satanic Scriptures\", a book that collects his essays and other writings was released. On October 13, 2007, a paperback () was released. The book includes rituals that were previously not public, such as marriages and Satanic burials.\n\nIn Walpurgis Night of 2012, it was announced that an edition in Spanish was in production to be released on Halloween.\n\nA large part of the essays were released before the book, however, some of the essays included in the book are improved variations. Some, including the essay published in the extract, deal with what the Church of Satan considers pseudo-Satanists, and those who refuse to join the Church, forming their own groups. Magus Gilmore is not too critical of the legitimate Satanists who never join the Church itself, yet disdainfully denounces heretical devil-worshiping Christians who foolishly sacrifice animals and worship a legendary and anti-theistic God.\n\nOther essays touch on the similarity between fascist aesthetics and Satanism, along with a multitude of political issues that correlate with the Satanic point of view, as the Index released demonstrates. It includes, but is not limited to, issues such as terrorism in the United States, gay rights, and much more.\n\nMany of the rituals detailed in the book were previously only known to members of the priesthood in the Church of Satan, as the wedding rite that was carried out by the founder Anton LaVey, along with the details of a Satanic funeral, is supposed which is a variation of which was made for him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52124287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52124287", "title": "Political theology in the Middle East", "text": "Political theology in the Middle East\n\nChristian political theology in the Middle East is a religious response by Christian leaders and scholars to political problems. Political theologians try to balance the demands of a tumultuous region with the delicate but long history of Christianity in the Middle East. This has yielded a diversity of political theology disproportionate to the small size of Middle Eastern Christian minorities. The region's importance to Christians worldwide – both for history and doctrinal authority for many denominations – also shapes the political theologies of the Middle East.\n\nFor many Christian leaders, the dominant approach to political theology is one of survival. Many Arab Christians see themselves as the heirs of a rich Christian heritage whose existence is threatened by regional unrest and religious persecution. Their chief political goal is survival, which sets their political theology apart.\n\nAt times, Arab Christian leaders have appealed to Christians outside the region through both denominational challenges and broader calls to Christian unity for humanitarian or political aid. In other cases, Christian politicians downplay their faith in the public sphere to avoid conflict with their Muslim neighbours.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, many Christians in the Middle East saw secular politics as a way out of their traditional status as a minority community in the Islamic world. Christians played prominent roles throughout the pan-Arab nationalist movement in the mid-20th century, where their experience with Western politics and generally high educational attainments made their contributions valuable to nationalist governments around the region. One prominent example was Michel Aflaq, an Eastern Orthodox Christian, who formed the first Ba’ath group from students in Damascus in the 1940s. His belief was that Christians should embrace Islam as part of their cultural identity because nationalism was the best way for Christians to be successful in the Middle East.\n\nWith the shift from pan-Arab nationalist movements into Islam-oriented politics, Christians have changed their approach. They have also lost influence because their numbers have declined due to birthrate, emigration, and sometimes overt persecution. Some Christians seek to emphasize the historic Christian presence as a sign of their commitment to the homeland. This ties the Christian minority to the national identity. These Christians often point to the presence of shrines and holy sites nearby to justify the importance of remaining in the Middle East. They emphasize their homeland as the birthplace of Christianity, even at the sacrifice of some religious duties such as evangelical work, as conversion from Islam is illegal in most Middle Eastern countries.\n\nOther Christians who live in nations with governments less friendly to them emphasize their ties as Christians with political power in Europe and the United States. They sometimes call on these ties through the corresponding religious leaders in Western nations in the hope that foreign governments will aid their causes from the outside.\n\nPalestinian Christians make up two per cent of the population in Israel and the West Bank/Gaza, and Christians generally emphasize their Palestinian identity over their religious identity in political affairs. Their generally high educational attainments made them key leaders causes for Palestinian nationalism, where they emphasized their historic ties to the Holy Land and religious bonds with Muslims and Jews, but the rise of Hamas, and their own declining numbers, has changed the Christian approach to one of influence rather than direct wielding of power.\n\nPalestinian liberation theology was developed during the first Palestinian Intifada in the 1980s. It was an effort to reconcile the Christian duties of love and forgiveness, as well as the role of the Bible in Christian and Jewish Zionism, with the struggles of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. Like liberation theology of Latin America, it emphasizes justice for Palestinians while insisting on the need for Christian love.\n\n\nChristians in Jordan are either descendants of the native Bedouin tribes or of Palestinian refugees, and they point to their historic presence in the area, which predates Islam, as a way of proving their loyalty to Jordan's sympathetic monarchy. Christian politicians formed a surprising political alliance with the Muslim Brotherhood during the 2016 campaign season. Christians justify this by pointing to the need to maintain their historic presence for family and religious reasons, given their proximity to many holy sites.\n\nChristian leaders in the Middle East garner support from fellow Christians in other nations, sometimes by issuing direct calls to act on the demands made by their political theology.\n\nThe Kairos document is a call from Palestinian Christian leaders for peaceful co-existence in the Holy Land, beginning with a re-negotiation of rights in Jerusalem for \"two peoples\" and \"three religions\". The document's theology begins with an insistence on God's love for all people and for Christian love for others, which sometimes requires strong action. The Kairos document argues against theologians who use the Bible to justify a religious state in the Holy Land, where Palestinian Christians and Muslims have a \"natural right\" to live. The authors place their hope for peace in God rather than political action, saying \"resistance with love\" is \"a right and a duty for the Christian\". The document references the Apostle Paul's statement to not resist evil with evil, but it stops short of condemning terrorism, calling instead for a removal of the \"roots of 'terrorism'\".\n\nThe Christian Academic Forum for Citizenship in the Arab World released the region's first \"public theology\" in 2014, titled \"From the Nile to the Euphrates: The Call of Faith and Citizenship\". The document's authors are scholars from Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Palestine, and Iraq, and it critically analyzes the role of religion in helping with the region's educational, social, and structurally political problems. The document stresses religion's potential for harm in political life multiple times and repeatedly emphasizes the need for Christians and Muslims to work together using principles of equality and freedom.\n"}
{"id": "25912849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25912849", "title": "Psilocybe lazoi", "text": "Psilocybe lazoi\n\nPsilocybe lazoi is a species of mushroom in the Strophariaceae family. The mushroom contains the medicinal compound psilocybin.\n\n"}
{"id": "11703578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11703578", "title": "Rassids", "text": "Rassids\n\nThe Imams of Yemen and later the Kings of Yemen were religiously consecrated leaders belonging to the Zaidiyyah branch of Shia Islam. They established a blend of religious and secular rule in parts of Yemen from 897. Their imamate endured under varying circumstances until the republican revolution in 1962. Zaidiyyah theology differed from Ismailis or Twelver Shi'ites by stressing the presence of an active and visible imam as leader. The imam was expected to be knowledgeable in religious sciences, and to prove himself a worthy headman of the community, even in battle if this was necessary. A claimant of the imamate would proclaim a \"call\" (da'wa), and there were not infrequently more than one claimant. The historian Ibn Khaldun (d. 1406) mentions the clan that usually provided the imams as the Banu Rassi or Rassids. In the original Arab sources the term Rassids is otherwise hardly used; in Western literature it usually refers to the Imams of the medieval period, up to the 16th century. The Rassid branch that came to power with imam al-Mansur al-Qasim (r. 1597-1620) is known as Qasimids (Al al-Qasimi).\n\nThe imams based their legitimacy on descent from the Islamic prophet Muhammad, mostly via the prominent Zaydiyya theologian al-Qasim ar-Rassi (d. 860) - his cognomen refers to ar-Rass, a property in the vicinity of Mecca that he owned. After him, the medieval imams are sometimes known as Rassids. The first of the ruling line, his grandson al-Hadi ila'l-Haqq Yahya, was born in Medina. His fame as an intellectual as well as a leader of note, led to his invitation to Yemen. He was summoned to govern the highland tribes in 893 and again in 896-97. Al-Hadi introduced a multitude of policies and practices that evolved into the particular Yemeni Zaidi Shia brand. The efforts of al-Hadi eventually became the basic guidelines for the religious as well as political characteristics of Yemeni Zaydism. Al-Hadi, however, was not able to consolidate his rule in all of Yemen. He could not even create an enduring state in the highlands, due to the strong localism persisting in the region. There were revolts as well as segments of the population that did not accept his and his successors' pretensions to religio-political rule.\n\nAlthough he did not succeed in establishing any permanent administrative infrastructure, al-Hadi's descendants became the local aristocracy of the northern highlands, and it is from among them that most of the imams of Yemen were selected for the next one thousand years. Occasionally the imams were drawn from other lines descending from Muhammad.\n\nYemen throughout most of that period was only rarely a unified political entity; in fact, what was included within its frontiers varied widely, and it has not been governed consistently or uniformly by any single set of rulers except for brief periods. It existed as a part of a number of different political systems/ruling dynasties between the ninth and sixteenth centuries, after which it became a part of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nAfter Imam al-Hadi's death in 911, his sons took over the imamate in turn, although it was not hereditary but rather elective among the descendants of Muhammad. From the 11th to the early 17th centuries, however, the imams were usually not chosen from the sons of the former imam, but rather circulated among the various Rassid branches. Meanwhile, a multitude of smaller dynasties and families established themselves in the highlands, as well as in Tihama (the low coastal plain) where the imams rarely ruled. Among the better known of these are the Yu'firids (in San'a and Shibam, 847-997), the Sulayhids (in the southern highlands, 1047-1138), the Zuray'ids (in Aden, 1080-1174), and the Hatimids (in San'a, 1098-1174). It was during this period, when the Fatimid state was influential, that a portion of the population was converted to Isma'ili Shiʿism.\n\nBeginning with the conquest of Yemen by the family of Salah al-Din ibn Ayyub (Saladin) in 1174, a series of dynasties exercised a modicum of control and administration in Yemen for roughly the next 400 years; these are, in chronological sequence, the Ayyubids, from 1173/74 to 1229; the Rasulids, from 1229 to 1454; the Tahirids, from 1454 to 1517; and the Mamluks, from 1517 to 1538, when the Ottoman Empire took the Yemeni Tihama.\n\nDuring most of this period, the dynasties and their rulers were primarily engaged in familial, regional, and occasionally sectarian disputes. Ironically, the Sunni Rasulids, who eventually concentrated their rule in southern Yemen for precisely that reason, were the dynasty under which the region experienced the greatest economic growth and political stability.\n\nFor part of the medieval era the Zaydiyyah imams were eclipsed by the lowland dynasties, and for long periods there would be no imam at all (especially in 1066-1138 and 1171-1187). From the end of the thirteenth century the political fortunes of the Zaydiyya imams revived somewhat. They were able to hold their own against the Rasulids and Tahirids and sometimes expand their territory. Often, however, and especially after 1436, the imamate was split between several contenders.\n\nComparatively little is known about the medieval Zaydi imams and their efforts to establish themselves and develop some form of administration (including tax collection), or their success in promoting Zaydi goals during this period. From the available evidence, there was very little continuity and a great deal of competition among the Zaydi families and clans. For example, in a presumably representative two-hundred-year period from the thirteenth to the fifteenth centuries, there appear to have been more than twenty different candidates for the imamate, representing more than ten distinct clans.\n\nEventually the Europeans entered the Middle East, specifically the Portuguese and then others, in the effort to control the Red Sea trade. For the Zaydiyya imams, however, the Ottomans constituted the greater external threat. Ottoman expeditions managed to defeat the highland tribesmen in the mid decades of the sixteenth century. From the early 17th century al-Mansur al-Qasim, belonging to one the Rassid branches (later known as the Qasimids), raised the standard of rebellion. His son al-Mu'ayyad Muhammad managed to gather the entire Yemen under his authority, expel the Turks, and establish an independent political entity. For a time, the imams ruled a comprehensive territory, including South Yemen and areas even further to the east. Their economic base was strengthened by the coffee trade of the coastal entrepot Mocha. Unlike in the previous practice, the Qasimids ruled as a hereditary dynasty.\n\nThe power of the imamate declined in the 18th and 19th century. The territory controlled by the imams shrank successively after the late 17th century, and the lucrative coffee trade declined with new producers in other parts of the world. Al-Mutawakkil Isma'il expanded the Qasimid state to it' greatest extent. The Qasimid state has been characterized as a \"quasi-state\" with an inherent tension between tribes and government, and between tribal culture and learned Islamic morality. The imams themselves adopted the style of Middle East monarchies, becoming increasingly distant figures. As a result, they eventually lost their charismatic and spiritual position among the tribes of Yemen. The imamate was further eclipsed by the second coming of the Turks to lowland Yemen in 1848, and to the highlands in 1872. However, the Ottoman troops were never able to entirely quell resistance against Turkish rule. The occupants were eventually driven out by 1918, by a Qasimid side-branch which inaugurated the Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen.\n\nFor the next 44 years North Yemen was ruled by two powerful imams. al-Mutawakkil Yahya Muhammad Hamid ad-Din and his son Ahmad bin Yahya created a king-state there much as the kings of England and France had done centuries earlier. The two imams strengthened the state and secured its borders. They used the imamate to insulate Yemen and revitalize its Islamic culture and society at a time when traditional societies around the world were declining under imperial rule. While Yemen under the two imams seemed almost frozen in time, a small but increasing number of Yemenis became aware of the contrast between an autocratic society they saw as stagnant and the political and economic modernization occurring in other parts of the world. This produced an important chain of events: the birth of the nationalist Free Yemeni Movement in the mid-1940s, an aborted 1948 revolution in which Imam Yahya was killed, a failed 1955 coup against Imam Ahmad, and finally, the 1962 takeover in which imam Muhammad al-Badr was deposed by a group of Egyptian supported and financed Sunni officers and the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) was proclaimed under the leadership of Abdullah al-Sallal.\n\nThe first five years of President Al-Sallal's rule, from 1962 to 1967, comprised the first chapter in the history of North Yemen. Marked by the revolution that began it, this period witnessed a lengthy civil war between Yemeni republican forces, based in the cities and supported by Egypt, and the royalist supporters of the deposed imam, backed by Saudi Arabia and Jordan. In 1965 Egyptian president Gamal Abdel Nasser met with King Faisal of Saudi Arabia to consider a possible settlement to the civil war. The meeting resulted in an agreement whereby both countries pledged to end their involvement and allow the people of North Yemen to choose their own government. Subsequent peace conferences were ineffectual, however, and fighting flared up again in 1966.\n\nBy 1967 the war had reached a stalemate, and the republicans had split into opposing factions concerning relations with Egypt and Saudi Arabia. In late 1967 Al-Sallal’s government was overthrown and he was replaced as president by Abdul Rahman al-Iryani. Fighting continued until 1970, when Saudi Arabia halted its aid to royalists and established diplomatic ties with North Yemen. Al-Iryani effected the long-sought truce between republican and royalist forces, and presided over the adoption of a democratic constitution in 1970. The last ruling Rassid descendant Muhammad al-Badr, greatly disappointed by the Saudi recognition of the republic, emigrated to London where he died in 1996.\n\nIn June 1974 military officers led by Colonel Ibrahim al-Hamdi staged a bloodless coup, claiming that the government of Al-Iryani had become ineffective. The constitution was suspended, and executive power was vested in a command council, dominated by the military. Al-Hamdi chaired the council and attempted to strengthen and restructure politics in North Yemen. Al-Hamdi was assassinated in 1977, and his successor, former Chief of Staff Ahmed Hussein al-Ghashmi, was killed in June 1978. The lengthy tenure of President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who ruled North Yemen from 1978 until it merged with South Yemen in 1990, proved more stable. Saleh strengthened the political system, while an influx of foreign aid and the discovery of oil in North Yemen held out the prospect of economic expansion and development.\n\nThere is no uncontroversial list of imams of Yemen, since many imams were not universally recognized, and sometimes eclipsed by the rule of lowland dynasties or by the Turks. The following list is fairly inclusive.\n\n\nFor continuation of leadership after 1962, see President of Yemen Arab Republic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4924115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4924115", "title": "Sakka, Rif Dimashq Governorate", "text": "Sakka, Rif Dimashq Governorate\n\nSakka or Saqqa () is a village to the southeast of Damascus, on the edge of the Ghouta, north west of Damascus International Airport in Syria.\n\nTell Sakka is a man-made tell in the neighborhood that has been excavated by Ahmed Taraqji on behalf of the Directorate-General of Antiquities and Museums.\n\nRemains of a palace was found and dated to between 1800 and 1600 BCE. It has provided evidence of Egyptian influence in the Ghouta, The architectural remains were said to resemble those of Qatna and along with pottery were dated to the Middle Bronze Age. A courtyard was excavated measuring by . Columns marked the entrance to the south and four large columns were positioned in a square in the centre of the courtyard. Tempera or perhaps Fresco technique Paintings were found on the walls showing ancient Egyptian style and motifs. However, beneath the apparent Egyptian scheme, a Near-Eastern tradition is evident in the ideas of the paintings.\n\nThe first cuneiform tablet recovered in the Damascus area was found at Tell Sakka. It was suggested resemble the style of cuneiform found in the archives of Mari and speaks of a king called Zimri-Lim. The cuneiform tablet in Sakka was translated to read \"\"To my brother Zimri-lim, say \"Thus saith Kanhilesu? Your brothers Samas and Dagan for the rest of the days, My brother sustenance? In front of me (it is) good. In front of my brother that is well! I heard: The enemy of my country brother, My brother has attacked, news of him that sent me! (...) inside a (?) [..., The army [of my country?], to my brother [(go go)].\"\"\n\nOther finds at the site included a sphinx made out of the scapula of a cow.\n\n"}
{"id": "312566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312566", "title": "Sea Org", "text": "Sea Org\n\nThe Sea Organization (Sea Org) is a Scientology organization, which the Church of Scientology describes as a \"fraternal religious order, comprising the church's most dedicated members\". All Scientology management organizations are controlled exclusively by members of the Sea Org. David Miscavige, the \"de facto\" leader of Scientology, is the highest-ranking Sea Org officer, holding the rank of captain.\n\nThe Sea Org has been described as a paramilitary organization and as a private naval force, having operated several vessels in its past and displaying a maritime tradition. Some ex-members and scholars have described the Sea Org as a totalitarian organization marked by intensive surveillance and a lack of freedom. The Sea Org has also been compared to a monastic organization.\n\nIn a 1992 memorandum by the Church of Scientology International, the following information was provided to the Internal Revenue Service with regards to nature of the Sea Org:\n\nThe Sea Org was established on August 12, 1967 by L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of Dianetics and Scientology, initially on board four ships, the \"Diana\", the \"Athena\", the \"Apollo\", and the \"Excalibur\". The \"Apollo\" served as the flag ship of the Sea Org.\n\nIn 1971, the Sea Org assumed responsibility for the ecclesiastical development of the church, and in particular the delivery of the upper levels of its auditing and training, known as the Operating Thetan or \"OT\" levels. In 1981, under the aegis of the Commodore's Messenger Organization led by David Miscavige, the Sea Org dissolved the Guardian's Office (GO) and assumed full responsibility for the international management of the Church, later reassigning the duties of the GO to the Office of Special Affairs in 1983 during the corporate restructuring of the Church.\n\nIt moved to land-based organizations in 1975, though maritime customs persist, with many members wearing naval-style uniforms and addressing both male and female officers as \"sir.\" In 1985, the church purchased a motor vessel, the \"Freewinds\", which docks in Curaçao in the southern Caribbean and is used as a religious retreat and training center, staffed entirely by Sea Org members. Sea Org members make a lifetime commitment to Scientology by signing a billion-year contract that is officially described as a symbolic pledge. In exchange, members are given free room and board, and a small weekly allowance. Sea Org members agree to strict codes of discipline, such as disavowing premarital sex, working long hours (on average at least 100 hours per week) and living in communal housing, referred to as \"berthings\". They are allowed to marry, but must relinquish their membership if they have or want to raise children.\n\nAccording to Hubbard, much of the galaxy, including Earth (known as \"Teegeeack\"), was ruled tens of millions of years ago by the Galactic Confederacy. The confederacy was controlled by a tyrant named Xenu, who was eventually overthrown by a group within the Galactic Confederacy known as the \"Loyal Officers\". Religious scholar Hugh Urban writes that the Sea Org is modeled after these Loyal Officers. Urban also describes the Sea Org, with the naval uniforms and ranks, as an idealized re-creation of Hubbard's own World War II military career. He also states that the Sea Org is reminiscent of the \"Soldiers of Light\" in Hubbard's science fiction story collection \"Ole Doc Methuselah\". \n\nStephen A. Kent (2001) argues that at least part of the reason for the establishment of the Sea Org was that the Church of Scientology's practices encountered resistance from the American Food and Drug Administration and the IRS, and from the governments of Australia, the United Kingdom, and Rhodesia. Sailing on the high seas meant the church could escape their attention.\n\nIn 2000 the number of Sea Org members was listed at around 7,000. As of 2009, the number was listed by the church at around 5,000. Most Sea Org members reside in church complexes in Los Angeles, Clearwater, Copenhagen, London, Saint Hill, and Sydney, with some at smaller centers or on assignment elsewhere.\n\nAccording to scholar Susan Raine, Hubbard created the Sea Org as a \"kind of space navy, melding SF space ideas with Earthbound naval ones.\" Hubbard biographist Jon Atack recalled a confidential command within Sea Org that claimed that governments of the world were on the verge of collapse. \"The Sea Org would survive and pick up the pieces.\"\n\nAll new recruits are required to complete compulsory novitiate before they are allowed to join the Sea Org, which has been described as a boot camp. During this phase, recruits are not yet considered to be Sea Org members, and are required to address all Sea Org members, regardless of rank, as \"sir\" as well as having to run everywhere instead of walking. Married couples are separated for the duration of the EPF and are not allowed to have private or intimate contact with each other.\n\nWhile on the EPF, recruits perform five hours of manual labor every day, in addition to a five-hour study period that consists of studying several Scientology courses, including the \"Basic Study Manual\", an introductory course in study tech, \"Introduction to Scientology Ethics\", a basic course in Scientology ethics, as well as courses concerning the history of the Sea Org and personal hygiene and grooming. Like the RPF, the EPF does not have a definite schedule. A recruit graduates the EPF as soon as all the required courses have been completed and upon successfully undergoing a mandatory security check, they are then allowed to join the Sea Org as full members. Sea Org recruits verbally agree to an 18-point code or pledge as part of a swearing in ceremony. Members formally reaffirm their acceptance of this code annually on August 12, the day when the organization was founded.\n\nIn 1967 the Church of Scientology purchased HMS \"Royal Scotsman\" which they renamed the \"Apollo\", which was used as the Sea Org's Flagship. In 1975, the church sold the Sea Org's ships and moved the organization to land bases around the world, which as of 2003, were operating in Clearwater, Copenhagen, London, Los Angeles, Saint Hill Manor in the UK, and Sydney, with smaller offices in Budapest, Johannesburg, Madrid, Milan, Moscow, and Toronto. In 1987, they purchased a ship, \"La Bohème\", which they renamed \"Freewinds\". OT VIII, the highest auditing level of Scientology currently available, is exclusive to the \"Freewinds\" and can only be undertaken there. The ship also hosts various courses, seminars, conventions and events throughout the year, including the annual \"Maiden Voyage\" celebration.\n\nAccording to Hubbard, the Sea Org's mission is \"an exploration into both time \"and\" space\". Sea Org members act as goodwill representatives and administrators of Scientology; all policy and administrative posts in the church's key organizations are held by Sea Org members. Most members are given room, board and a weekly allowance of about $75.\n\nIn accordance with Scientology beliefs, members are expected to return to the Sea Org when they are reborn; the Sea Org's motto is \"We Come Back\". Members must therefore sign a symbolic billion-year \"religious commitment\", pledging to \"get ethics in on this planet and the universe.\" The church contends that the agreement is not a legally binding contract and is merely a symbolic demonstration of the dedication members are expected to give to the organization, and that they are free to leave if they wish. After signing, members report to the Estates Project Force, the Sea Org's induction program; Melton writes that members may take several years between signing the commitment and attending the induction. Once induction is completed, the final decision to join is made.\n\nMembers who leave the Sea Org are issued a \"freeloader's bill\", retroactively billing them for any auditing or training they have received. Although the bill is not legally enforceable, these Scientologists may not receive services at any Scientology organization until they pay the bill and perform an ethics course.\n\nFrom the early 1970s to the start of the 21st century, the children of Sea Org members were often placed in the Cadet Org. Sea Org members may marry one another, but are not permitted to marry outside the organization; extra-marital sex is also prohibited. According to Melton, couples with children must leave the Sea Org and return to other staff positions within the church until the child is six years old; thereafter the children are raised communally and allowed to visit their parents in the Sea Org on weekends. Children of members have themselves joined the Sea Org when they came of age. Several former members have said they were advised (or even forced) to have an abortion when they became pregnant to avoid being sent to lower organizations. Scientology presents itself as opposed to abortion and actively speaks out against it in its publications.\n\nThe Rehabilitation Project Force (RPF) was created in January 1974 as a system of work camps set up by the Sea Org, intended to isolate and rehabilitate members who have not lived up to the church's expectations, have failed security checks, or have violated certain policies. Melton writes that the RPF areas are located within Sea Org facilities, and that there are no locks on the doors.\n\nMany ex-Sea Org members have reported gruelling treatment. According to Melton, there are eight hours of physical work – such as painting, plumbing, and upkeep of grounds – six days a week; the work may involve teaching the member a skill such as carpentry. Members also spend five hours a day studying with or auditing a partner. Former Scientologist Jon Atack argued, in \"A Piece of Blue Sky\" (1990), that treatment of Sea Org members in the RPF was a \"careful imitation of techniques long-used by the military to obtain unquestioning obedience and immediate compliance to orders, or more simply to break men's spirits ...\" One former member, Gerry Armstrong, said that during his time in the Sea Org in the 1970s he spent over two years banished to the RPF as a punishment:\n\nIt was essentially a prison to which crew who were considered nonproducers, security risks, or just wanted to leave the Sea Org, were assigned. Hubbard's RPF policies established the conditions. RPF members were segregated and not allowed to communicate to anyone else. They had their own spaces and were not allowed in normal crew areas of the ship. They ate after normal crew had eaten, and only whatever was left over from the crew meal. Their berthing was the worst on board, in a roach-infested, filthy and unventilated cargo hold. They wore black boilersuits, even in the hottest weather. They were required to run everywhere. Discipline was harsh and bizarre, with running laps of the ship assigned for the slightest infraction like failing to address a senior with \"Sir.\" Work was hard and the schedule rigid with seven hours' sleep time from lights out to lights on, short meal breaks, no liberties and no free time ...When one young woman ordered into the RPF took the assignment too lightly, Hubbard created the RPF's RPF and assigned her to it, an even more degrading experience, cut off even from the RPF, kept under guard, forced to clean the ship's bilges, and allowed even less sleep.\n\nSeveral scholars, writers and former members have compared the Sea Org to a paramilitary group. In \"\" (2008), Andrew Morton described it as a \"fraternal paramilitary organization\", and wrote that members are instructed to read \"The Art of War\" by warfare expert Sun Tzu, and \"On War\" by General Carl von Clausewitz. He wrote that Scientology leader David Miscavige created an elite unit within the Sea Org called the \"SEALs\", named after the United States Navy SEALs, who receive better lodging, sustenance, and uniforms than other Sea Org members.\n\nLawrence Wright wrote in \"The New Yorker\" in 2011 that the Sea Org used small children drawn from Scientology families for what the article described as forced child labor. The article described extremely inhumane conditions, with children spending years in the Sea Org, sequestered from mainstream life.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3085855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3085855", "title": "Shaddad", "text": "Shaddad\n\nShaddād (Arabic شدّاد), also known as Shaddād bin 'Ad, was believed to be the king of the lost Arabian city of Iram of the Pillars, an account of which is mentioned in Sura 89 of the Qur'an. Various sources suggest Shaddad was the son of 'Ad al-Miltat ibn Saksak ibn Wa'il ibn Himyar.\n\nHis story is found in the 277th through 279th nights of the \"Tales of the Arabian Nights\" \"(The Book of One Thousand and One Nights)\".\n\nBrothers Shaddīd (شديد) and Shaddād are said to have reigned in turn over the 1,000 Adite tribes, each consisting of several thousand men. It is said Shaddad brutally subdued all Arabia and Iraq. Many Arab writers tell of an expedition of Shaddād that caused the Canaanite migration, their settling in Syria, and the Shepherd invasion of Egypt. \n\nAccording to the Quran, Iram of the Pillars was a city of occult worshippers of stone idols, who defied the warnings of the prophet Hud. To punish them, God sent a drought. But the people would not repent, so they were destroyed by a furious wind, from which only Hud and a few believers emerged.\n\n"}
{"id": "8734025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8734025", "title": "Shambala (song)", "text": "Shambala (song)\n\n\"Shambala\" is a song written by Daniel Moore and made famous by two near-simultaneous releases in 1973: the better-known but slightly later recording by Three Dog Night, which reached number 3 on the Billboard Hot 100, and a version by B.W. Stevenson. Its title derives from a mythical place-name also spelled \"Shamballa\" or \"Shambhala.\"\n\nThe well-known cover of this song by the rock band Three Dog Night appeared in 1973 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, on the top 40 from the beginning of June through the end of August, reaching #3 in both the pop singles and adult contemporary categories, #1 on the \"Cashbox Magazine\" charts, and an isolated week at #1 on WLS. Headed toward the Hot 100's summit in late July, had it not run out of steam, “Shambala” would have completed an uncommon distinction of a Hot 100 chart-topper for each of four consecutive years for the group. The song, the first one that the group had specifically cut as a single, rather than an album cut, later appeared on \"Cyan,\" Three Dog Night's ninth album, and subsequently on numerous anthologies and compilation albums.\n\nAlthough the lyrics of “Shambala” draw on a theme from Eastern mysticism, \"Allmusic\" notes the \"very strong gospel feeling\" of the album \"Cyan\" is most evident on this song. This comment may be based on both the instrumentation, including the characteristic gospel keyboard organ sounds that accompany the chorus, which features the repeated, unmistakable dog howls for which the group was long famous, and the bluesy vocals of Cory Wells. \"Allmusic\" calls this hit single \"one of the group's finest later period records.\"\n\nOne week before Three Dog Night's version appeared on the charts, Texan singer-songwriter B. W. Stevenson's minute-shorter version bowed at #96 and later peaked at #66 during its eight-week run. It also reached #31 on the U.S. Adult Contemporary chart. This lesser-known version is often regarded as country pop or country rock and appears on collections of such. The twang of Stevenson's steel-string acoustic guitar, his Southern accent and an American folk music sound all distinguish it from the better-known version soon to follow. In South Africa, Stevenson's version actually charted higher, peaking at #8, compared to Three Dog Night's #13.\n\nThe song's actual lyrics are about the mythical kingdom of Shambhala, which was said to be hidden somewhere within or beyond the peaks of the Himalayas and was mentioned in various ancient texts, including the Kalachakra Tantra and ancient texts of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nThe lyrics refer to a situation where kindness and cooperation are universal, joy and good fortune abound, and psychological burdens are lifted.\n\nThe phrases \"in the halls of Shambala\" and \"on the road to Shambala\" tie for number of occurrences in the lyrics. The latter phrase perhaps alludes to the idea of Shambala not as a physical place but as a metaphor for the spiritual path one might follow.\n\nDespite having two successful incarnations in the same year (one of which has remained a classic rock standard), few other artists have covered “Shambala.” Some of those few are these:\n"}
{"id": "28964461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28964461", "title": "Sister Wives", "text": "Sister Wives\n\nSister Wives is an American reality television series broadcast on TLC that premiered on September 26, 2010. The show documents the life of a polygamist family, which includes patriarch Kody Brown, his four wives, and their 18 children. The family began the series living in Lehi, Utah, but has since moved to Las Vegas, Nevada in 2011, and the unincorporated township of Baderville, Arizona, (northwest of Flagstaff, Arizona) in mid-2018.\n\nBrown and his four wives have stated they participated in the show to make the public more aware of polygamist families and to combat societal prejudices. Brown believes his polygamist arrangement is legal because he is legally married only to one woman, and the other marriages are spiritual unions. The series led to the Brown family being investigated for possible prosecution. This resulted in a federal judge declaring Utah laws that guard against polygamy to be unconstitutional; citing that state may still outlaw plural marriages, but it cannot prohibit polygamous cohabitation.\n\nThe show follows the lives of advertising salesman Kody Brown, his wives Meri, Janelle, Christine, and Robyn, and their 18 children. In the first season the show televised Brown's courting of and marriage to his fourth wife, Robyn Sullivan, in 2010. Sullivan was the first new wife to enter the family in 16 years.\n\nThe only legal marriage was between Kody and his first wife Meri until their legal divorce in September 2014. (He legally married fourth wife Robyn in December 2014 in order to legally adopt her three children). The other marriages are considered spiritual unions. As of 2018, Kody has been married to Meri for 28 years, Janelle for 25 years, Christine for 24 years, and Robyn for 8 years. Kody and Meri have a daughter named Mariah, their only child. Kody and Janelle have six children: daughters Madison and Savanah and sons Logan, Hunter, Garrison, and Gabriel. Kody and Christine have six children: daughters Aspyn, Mykelti, Gwendlyn, Ysabel, and and son Paedon. Robyn had three children from her first marriage, which was monogamous: Dayton, Aurora, and Breanna. Kody legally adopted them in June 2015. Kody and Robyn have two children: son Solomon and daughter Ariella. The family has one grandchild, Axel, from Kody and Janelle's daughter, Madison.\n\nMeri, Robyn, and Christine were all raised in polygamist families, but Janelle was not. Although Christine's mother left the faith she still supports them. Months before the marriage of Janelle and Kody, however, Janelle's mother entered into a polygamist marriage with Kody's father. The Brown family belonged to the Apostolic United Brethren (AUB). For years before the series, the family kept their polygamist lifestyle what they called a \"quasi-secret\".\n\nIn the autumn of 2009, independent producers Timothy Gibbons and Christopher Poole approached Figure 8 Films, a North Carolinian company, with the concept of a reality series about the Brown family. Bill Hayes, the president of Figure 8 Films, said the company agreed to the idea after meeting with the Browns and deciding their lives would make a great story. Camera crews shot footage of the family in mid-2010 to be used in the first season, ending in May with the marriage of Kody Brown and Robyn Sullivan. The crews continued to film them afterward in case the series was picked up for a second season. \"Sister Wives\" was publicly introduced on August 6, 2010, at the Television Critics Association summer media tour in Beverly Hills, California. The series' first episode, an hour long, was broadcast on TLC on September 26, 2010, and the first season continued with six half-hour chapters until October 17, 2010.\n\nThe broadcast of \"Sister Wives\" came at a time that polygamy and multiple marriages were a prevalent topic in American pop culture. \"Big Love\", the hit HBO series about fictional Utah polygamist Bill Henrickson, his three sister wives, and their struggle to gain acceptance in society, had already been on the air for several years. In early September 2010, the drama series \"Lone Star\", about a con man on the verge of entering into multiple marriages, premiered on Fox but was quickly canceled after two episodes, and when \"Sister Wives\" debuted, actress Katherine Heigl was in the process of developing a film about Carolyn Jessop, a woman who fled from a polygamist sect.\n\nIn October 2010, TLC announced it had commissioned a second season, which began in March 2011. A TLC interview with the Brown family was broadcast on October 31, 2010, and a one-hour program featuring the honeymoon of Kody Brown and Robyn Sullivan aired on November 22, 2010.\n\nThe nine-episode first season ran from September 26 to November 21, 2010. The season premiere introduced viewers to Kody Brown and his three wives, Meri, Janelle, and Christine, and their twelve children, all of whom lived in a ranch-style home with three interconnected apartments. It also chronicled Kody's dating and engagement to Robyn Sullivan, who herself has three children, marking the first time in 16 years Kody had courted another wife. The new relationship creates insecurity and jealousy among the other three wives, but they ultimately accept her and welcome her into the family. During the fourth episode of the season, Christine gives birth to her sixth child, , which brings the family to 16 children including Robyn's three kids.\n\nLater, Kody and Meri go to Mexico to celebrate their twentieth wedding anniversary, where Meri discussed her sadness about her infertility problems and the jealousy that has arisen from Kody's engagement to Robyn. Kody proposes in vitro fertilisation, but she turns down the idea as she is only interested in a naturally occurring conception. As Robyn's wedding approaches, the three sister wives help Robyn prepare, and they begin to bond. However, Kody upsets his wives when he reveals he secretly chose Robyn's wedding dress himself, which makes Christine feel so betrayed that she angrily walks away in mid-interview. Kody eventually apologizes, and the five reconcile. The first-season finale ends with the wedding of Kody and Robyn, where Meri, Janelle, and Christine present her with a Claddagh ring to welcome her into the family.\n\nSeason 2 ran 23 episodes from March 13, 2011 to November 27, 2011, though many sources refer to the episodes airing from September 25, 2011 to November 27, 2011 as Season 3. This is due to a short hiatus from June 5, 2011 to September 25, 2011.\n\nSeason 2 begins with the Browns heading to New York to appear on national television for the first time as open polygamists, while back home the kids head off to their first day of public school. Throughout the season, the Browns visit various friends and family members and reflect on how their relationships have changed with these people since they became open polygamists. These friends and family members include Kody's parents (also polygamists), Kody's high school friends, and various monogamous couples that Kody and the sister wives know. Part 1 of Season 2 also follows the Browns through Kody and Janelle's anniversary camping trip, preparing and participating in Halloween, and Christmas, which the Browns celebrate in a snowy mountain cabin. During Season 2 we also learn more about Meri's personal struggle with her risk of cancer and the loss of her sister. In episode 5, Kody, Christine, and their children take a trip to Las Vegas, which we later learn is the beginning of the Browns' subsequent move to Las Vegas. The final episodes of Season 2 follow the Browns with their real estate agent Mona Riekki through their struggle to find a home in Las Vegas suitable for polygamists, telling the kids that they are moving, and the subsequent move to Las Vegas. Realtor, Mona Riekki finds rental homes for each of the wives and Kody. Once the Browns settle into their new homes they discuss the possibility of finding a home for all of them to live together or four homes in one cul-de-sac. In the last episode before the hiatus, Robyn announces that she is expecting her and Kody's first child.\n\nThe second part of Season 2 brings the announcement of the sex of Robyn and Kody's baby and the Browns' struggle to adjust to life in Las Vegas. The episodes following the Season 2 hiatus focus largely on Robyn's pregnancy and the kids' adjustment to their new lives. The abrupt move to Las Vegas brings about behavioral problems in some of the older kids, which is also discussed largely in the second half of Season 2. During these episodes the Browns also explore possible businesses that the five of them (Kody and the sister wives) can run together. Several episodes after the hiatus discuss specific topics such as jealousy among the sister wives, especially regarding courting a new wife, how the parents combat the influence of Las Vegas on their children, and how the Browns are preparing the older children for college. Mona Riekki is back in this season and is working with the family on finding a permanent home in Vegas. In the finale, Robyn gives birth to baby Solomon on October 27, 2011 and the possibility of Meri having more children once again resurfaces.\n\nAlthough the ongoing investigation of the Browns is brought up during Season 2, it is not extensively discussed, and the progress of the investigation is unknown.\n\nSeason 3 premiered on May 13, 2012 after vague details surfaced about the show's spring return on the Twitter account of sister wife Robyn Sullivan Brown. The twenty one episode season mainly dealt with the family's inability to be a cohesive unit while living in four separate homes. Meri explains more about the infertility problems she has experienced, while Christine discloses more on her jealousy of Robyn. The season returned from hiatus on November 18, 2012, to the Brown family still discussing their options into moving their family onto one property, and invest in a cul-de-sac where they can build four homes. It is more evident this season that living in separate homes is tearing the family apart. Towards the end of the season, the family plans a three-day trip to Nauvoo, Illinois, the birthplace of American polygamy. In the last episode on December 30, 2012, the family also deals with the upcoming departure to college of the eldest Brown child, Logan.\n\nSeason 4 premiered on July 21, 2013. It chronicles the family as they move into four adjacent houses within the same neighborhood. The wives are still working on starting their jewelry business. Meri comes to a decision following Robyn's offer to be her surrogate.\n\nSeason 5 includes seven episodes, eight if you include the \"Tell All\" at the end, and eleven if you include the \"Sitting Down with the Browns\", \"Meri-Behind the Scenes\", and the \"Robyn-Behind the Scenes\" episodes. Season 5 begins with two daughters, Mykelti and Madison, graduating high school. The grown ups plan to lip sync a song to celebrate, but it brings out some negative feelings for Janelle, who is not comfortable being so outgoing and admits to being embarrassed in public by the others' behavior. And a deeper issue of feeling like she's not heard bubbles to the surface and she sees a therapist to discuss that along with her challenging relationship with first wife Meri. On a business level, the family discusses whether to turn down investors' money and keep full ownership of Sisterwives' Closet and whether to keep the products all their own creations or branch out and resale other artists' designs and products.\nChristine's mother moves in with her in Las Vegas, and in episode four, the Browns allow two anthropologists to live with them for two days to see the inner workings of polygamy, an arrangement that could either put their lifestyle in a positive or negative light.\n\nFinally, after five years of mental deliberation, Meri files for legal divorce from Kody so Kody can adopt Robyn's three children from her previous marriage. By the end of the season, Meri and Kody maintained that they would continue their relationship.\n\nEpisode one picks up with the Brown Family after the marriage anniversary/ spiritual celebration. The first episode talks about Kody and Janelles upcoming wedding anniversary, Kody’s Birthday and the Sister Wives Closet meeting with investors. The second episodes delves a little bit deeper into the Sister Wives closet VS. potential investors idea- tank is heavily focused on the “shark tank” like business the Brown’s are trying to pitch to investors. In the previous episode Meri dropped the bombshell to Robyn that she was going back to college. Robyn states that she was annoyed and felt betrayed because Meri was the only wife who was 100% devoted to the business.\n\nMaddie announces that she and Caleb are expecting a baby. On May 20, 2017, Maddie and Caleb had a baby boy, Axel. Meri purchases a bed and breakfast in Parowan, Utah called Lizzie's Heritage Inn. At first Kody is not on board, but eventually gives his approval as long as the funds for the purchase come from Meri's personal account and not the family. Mykelti marries Antonio \"Tony\" Padron. Mariah introduces her partner, Audrey, to the family after announcing last season that she is gay. Kody and his wives took part in the march on the Utah State Capitol asking lawmakers to vote against House Bill 99. Robyn did not participate in the march. \n\n\"Sister Wives\" drew national media attention after its first season and garnered generally mixed reviews from critics. \"Washington Post\" staff writer Hank Stuever called it \"refreshingly frank\" and found most interesting the small details of the family's everyday life, such as the food supply, division of labor, and minor arguments. \"Los Angeles Times\" television critic Mary McNamara said she was intrigued by the matriarchal nature of the polygamist family, a unit that is traditionally considered patriarchal. McNamara said the wives form the center of the family and that \"their bonds appear far stronger and more vital than the casual fondness with which they all treat Kody\". Salon.com writer Schuyler Velasco praised \"Sister Wives\" for introducing viewers to unfamiliar subject matter and called it \"refreshingly modest\" considering its controversial subject matter. Velasco said it has \"a natural, honest presence in a genre fabled for the camera-hogging antics of \"Jersey Shore\"\". Shelley Fralic of \"The Vancouver Sun\" called it fascinating and surprising and was impressed with the sensible and articulate way in which the family defended their lifestyle. When the Brown family made an October 2010 appearance on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", talk show host Oprah Winfrey said she found particularly fascinating the relationship between the sister wives.\n\nMark A. Perigard of the \"Boston Herald\" criticized Kody Brown for opening himself and his family up to potential criminal prosecution by appearing in the series, describing him as \"a lawbreaker who is risking himself and the family he claims is so precious just to star in his own TV show\". Elizabeth Tenety of \"The Washington Post\" called the series \"one part domestic drudgery, another part sensationalism\" and claimed it relied on a \"familiar reality TV recipe\" shared by other TLC series such as \"19 Kids and Counting\" and \"Kate Plus 8\". \"Religion Dispatches\" writer Joanna Brooks shared Tenety's perspective, criticizing the show for presenting polygamy in a manner that \"is about as interesting to me as Kate Gosselin's latest makeover.\" In this vein Brooks criticized the show for not engaging the theology of plural marriage and for letting Kody Brown's superficial comments about the dissimilarity of Fundamentalist and mainstream Mormonism pass onto the viewers without any critical scrutiny or added nuance. Shari Puterman, television columnist with the \"Asbury Park Press\", felt the sister wives had issues with jealousy and self-worth, and she compared Kody to a cult leader. Puterman added, \"I can't speak for everyone, but I believe in the sanctity of marriage. It's sad to see that TLC's capitalizing on people who don't.\" Former prosecutor and television personality Nancy Grace criticized the show and said she believed Kody Brown should go to jail, but she expressed doubt he would, based on Utah's history of overlooking polygamy. Christine Seifert, an associate professor of communications at Westminster College in Salt Lake City, said the show could give viewers who are unfamiliar with the LDS church the incorrect assumption that polygamy is accepted by the mainstream church. Several commentators have taken notice of the fact that the family's religious convictions are downplayed in \"Sister Wives\".\n\nAccording to Nielsen Media Research, the September 26, 2010, one-hour premiere episode of \"Sister Wives\" drew 2.26 million viewers, a strong rating for the network. It marked the biggest series debut for TLC since \"Cake Boss\" launched in 2009 and was a stronger rating than any of the season premieres for HBO's \"Big Love\". The remaining episodes of the first season were each a half-hour long, with two broadcast together each Thursday. In the second week, the first episode drew 1.88 million viewers, while the second drew 2.13 million. The third week drew similar results, with 1.89 million viewers watching the first episode and 2.05 million watching the second. \"Sister Wives\" drew its strongest ratings during the fourth and final week of the first season, with 2.67 million viewers for the first episode and 2.74 million for the season finale. As a result of the 2.7 million average viewership for the two episodes, TLC ranked first among all ad-support cable channels in the 18–49 and 25–54 age groups. The series drew double- and triple-digit ratings gains in all key demographics and ranked second in ad-supported cable network shows during its time period.\n\nKody Brown, along with his wives, filed a legal case in the United States federal courts challenging the State of Utah's criminal polygamy law. The Browns prevailed in the district court in a 2013 ruling, but a unanimous three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit ordered the case to be dismissed on standing grounds in 2016. The Tenth Circuit concluded that because local Utah prosecutors had a policy of not pursuing most polygamy cases in the absence of additional associated crimes (e.g., welfare fraud or marriage of underage persons), the Browns had no credible fear of future prosecution and thus lacked standing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2465873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2465873", "title": "Temple of Debod", "text": "Temple of Debod\n\nThe Temple of Debod () is an ancient Egyptian temple that was dismantled and rebuilt in Madrid, Spain.\n\nThe shrine was originally erected south of Aswan in Upper Egypt, very close to the first cataract of the Nile and to the great religious center in Philae dedicated to the goddess Isis. In the early 2nd century BC, Adikhalamani (Tabriqo), the Kushite king of Meroë, started its construction by building a small single-room chapel dedicated to the god Amun. It was built and decorated in a similar design to the later Meroitic chapel on which the Temple of Dakka is based. Later, during the reigns of Ptolemy VI, Ptolemy VIII, and Ptolemy XII of the Ptolemaic dynasty, it was extended on all four sides to form a small temple, , which was dedicated to Isis of Philae. The Roman emperors Augustus and Tiberius completed its decorations.\n\nFrom the quay, there is a long processional way leading to the stone-built enclosure wall, through three stone pylon gateways, and finally to the temple itself. The pronaos, which had four columns with composite capitals, collapsed in 1868 and is now lost. Behind it lay the original sanctuary of Amun, the offering table room and a later sanctuary with several side-rooms and stairs to the roof.\n\nIn 1960, due to the construction of the Aswan High Dam and the consequent threat posed by its reservoir to numerous monuments and archeological sites, UNESCO made an international call to save this rich historical legacy. As a sign of gratitude for the help provided by Spain in saving the Abu Simbel temples, the Egyptian state donated the temple of Debod to Spain in 1968.\n\nThe temple was rebuilt in one of Madrid's parks, the Parque del Oeste, near the Royal Palace of Madrid, and opened to the public in 1972. The reassembled gateways have been placed in a different order than when originally erected. Compared to a photo of the original site, the gateway topped by a serpent-flanked sun was not the closest gateway to the temple proper. It constitutes one of the few works of ancient Egyptian architecture that can be seen outside Egypt and the only one of its kind in Spain.\n\nThe four temples donated to countries assisting the relocation are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6975118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6975118", "title": "Universal Life", "text": "Universal Life\n\nUniversal Life (, unofficially abbreviated UL) is the name of a controversial new religious movement based in Würzburg, Germany, which is described by members as a part of the new revelation movement. The group was originally called \"Heimholungswerk Jesu Christi\", but has been known as Universal Life since 1984.\n\nThe founding of Universal Life was through teachings distributed by Gabriele Wittek. These works were claimed to be revelations from Jesus Christ or other spiritual beings, which Gabriele received as a prophetess and promulgated. These are, along with the Sermon on the Mount and the 10 Commandments, the fundamental basis of the faith. In 2003 Wittek published her own bible, \"Das ist mein Wort\" (\"This is My Word\").\n\nMembers of Universal Life run, among other institutions, a school, a natural healing clinic and a publisher. The beliefs of the group are propagated by Radio Santec GmbH of Marktheidenfeld through two TV stations, Die Neue Zeit TV and Sophia TV, transmitted from SES Astra 1KR satellite at the 19.2° East orbital position. They operate agricultural establishments, which farm according to the principles of Organic farming. However, these establishments are not officially connected to Universal Life.\n\nGabriele Wittek claims to have heard the first \"inner words\" after the death of her mother. After a year, she saw her dead mother appear during a spiritual meeting, and spoke to her. Wittek claimed to have experienced several apparitions later, including of a spiritual being named \"Brother Emmanuel\". Finally, she met Christ himself. On 18 April 1987 Christ allegedly spoke in a great revelation, among other things, about the \"Inner Path\". It concerns a mystic school of thought in which God is considered to be in people and in all living beings, according to Jesus' saying: \"The kingdom of God is 'within' you.\"\n\nIn the past, Universal Life claimed contact with an alien from outer space named Mairadi.\n\nExact numbers are hard to determine, since there is no formal membership within Universal Life. Georg Schmid estimated, in his book \"Churches, Sects, Religions\", the number of members to be 100,000 worldwide, including 40,000 in Germany. Other estimates claim 10,000 members worldwide, with 3000 in the Würzburg region.\n\nThe association \"Universelles Leben e.V.\" has around 500 members. The inner circle, who live in communities in the Würzburg region and work in farms, calls itself the \"Covenant Community of the New Jerusalem\".\n\nThe activities of Universal Life are concentrated in Bavaria. The organisation is represented in other regions of Germany, as well as in Austria, Italy and in Switzerland. They also do activities in other countries, as Spain.\n\nMembers believe in reincarnation and promote vegetarianism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23557453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23557453", "title": "Urubhanga", "text": "Urubhanga\n\nUrubhanga or Urubhangam, (Devanagari: ऊरुभङ्गम्), () is a Sanskrit play written by Bhasa in the 2nd or 3rd century CE. Based on the well-known epic, the \"Mahābhārata\", by Vyasa, \"Urubhanga\" focuses on the story of the character Duryodhana during and after his fight with Bhima. Although \"Urubhanga\" contains the same core storyline as that in the \"Mahābhārata\", Bhasa’s altering of certain aspects results in a different presentation of the story. The most extreme of these alterations is Bhasa’s portrayal of Duryodhana, who, in the \"Mahābhārata\", is viewed as a villain, but in \"Urubhanga\" is given more human qualities. While tragedy is rare among Sanskrit dramas, Bhasa’s presentation of Duryodhana’s side of the tale adds certain tragic elements to the play.\n\n\"Urubhanga\" is derived from the famous epic \"Mahabharata\". Although portrayed as a villain in the original play, the protagonist Duryodhana is presented in a different light in \"Urubhanga\". He isn't exempted from his original evil deeds, but he is shown as a character with heroic qualities. The play centers around events that happen preceding his death; Duryodhana is shown repenting his past, reconciling with his family, and realizing the futility of war. \n\nIn the beginning of the play there are three soldiers that are marveling at the battlefield between the Kauravas and Pandavas. They describe the scene before them in gory detail, each taking turn to muse and exclaim over the various details that they observe. As they progress through the battlefield, they arrive to the battle between the middle Pandava Bhima and the Kaurava Duryodhana\n\nThe soldiers then proceed to describe the fight between Bhima and Duryodhana. The audience is seeing the battle entirely through the description of the three soldiers; ultimately, Bhima falls from Duryodhana's incessant blows. Duryodhana, refusing to kill Bhima while he is on the ground, instead has his thighs crushed by Bhima from false play and violation of rules. \n\nAfter Duryodhana has fallen, Bhima is carried away hurriedly by the other Pandavas, and Duryodhana is left on the battleground. This act of false play incites the anger of Baladeva, who wants to seek justice. However, Duryodhana stops him, having become resigned; this begins the part of the play that starts to emphasize the heroic qualities of Duryodhana.\n\nDuryodhana blames Krishna and forgives Bhima, as the play progresses, he is reconciled with his blind parents, then his queens (Malavi and Pauravi), and his son. Duryodhana is distressed about his situation, as he can no longer salute his father, nor can he let his son sit on his thigh. He also rejects the futility of war.\n\nAt the end of the play, Ashvatthaman, the preceptor's son, appears with the intent to seek revenge for Duryodhana and kill the Pandavas during the night, and Ashvatthaman names Durjaya, Duryodhana's son, as king of the kingdom right before Duryodhana dies. However, it needs to be noted that the play does not end completely in a tragic note, as there are signs of hope for the future, since it is unorthodox for Indian Sanskrit dramas to end only on a sad note.\n\n\"Urubhangam\" was presented by the Bangladesh Centre for Asian Theatre, adapted by Niranjan Adhikari and directed by Kamaluddin Nilu. The premier of the play was held at Theatre Festival Varmland, Sweden in 2001. The performance is characterized by elements of Bengali folk theatre forms, rites, chorus, dance and modern techniques which goes beyond traditional forms of Sanskrit drama. The Centre for Asian Theatre performed at the Huashan Arts District Outdoor Tent Theatre hosted by the Department of Cultural Affairs of Taipei City Government. \n\nThe \"Urubhanga\" was also adapted by Kavalam Narayana Panikkar. This version was remodified in the theyyam style. Panikkar created two Duryodhanas in the play in which one is the mortal Duryodhana and the other is Suyodhana. Ratan Thiyam's production of the play uses Manipuri dance and theatre traditions, as well as traditional martial art, Thang-Ta.\n\nPlay is also adapted in Dogri by Kumar. A. 'Bharti', Designed by Abhishek Bharti and Directed by Aaditya Bharti which was declared as Best Production of 2017 by J&K State Cultural Academy. Its a highly experimental Production blends with Folk forms of Dogra region of J&K. Production got 10 State Cultural Academy Awards which includes Best Director Aaditya Bharti, Best Music Abhishek Bharti, Best Make up Shammi Dhamir, Best Costumes kamal Mohini and Acting Awards To Kanav Sharma, Sushmita Banerjee, Niharika Sakshi, Nitin Babu.\n\nAdaptations of Sanskrit classics including the \"Urubhanga\" was also staged by the Suvarna Karnataka, choreographed by Maya Rao.\n\nPusalker, A.D. Bhasa - a study. Munshiram Manoharlal Publishers Pvt. Ltd. New Delhi, India 1968\n\nSharma, A. \"Essays on the Mahabharata\". Leiden, 1991\n\nDharwadker, A.B. \"Theatres of Independence: Drama, Theory, and Urban Performance in India since 1947\". University of Iowa Press, 2005\n\nBhat, G.K. \"Tragedy and Sanskrit Drama\". Popular Prakashan(P) Ltd. Mumbai, India 1974\n\nSkilton, A. \"How the nāgas were pleased\" by Harṣa ; & \"The shattered thighs\" by Bhāsa. New York University Press: JJC Foundation, 2009.\n\n\"Bhasa's Urubhanga and Indian Poetics\" In this article, Gerow examines the differences between the Urubhanga and the Mahabharata ‘original’. In the Urubhanga, the villain is portrayed as the moral hero since it is Duryodhana who acts as the guide and teacher for the reader. The play draws attention to discipline over self, compassion for the enemy, reconciliation within the family. Gerow also indicates the differences between the Urubhanga and Sanskrit dramaturgy as well as the structure. \n\nG.K. Bhat in his book \"Tragedy and Sanskrit Drama\" studies the tragic design and intent established in the play. According to Bhat, Bhasa is the single Sanskrit dramatist to experiment with ancient material to produce tragic structure. Introducing tragic motive into the play was limited and attempt at delineating the character or action was considered a denial of the existing legend and the fabrication of a new one. Therefore, Bhat is a solitary case of a daring experiment in Sanskrit dramatic literature as he breaks away from the traditional epic framework. \n\nIn Bhasa's \"Urubhanga\" the incident and featured characters are taken from the epic but Bhasa re-orients the incident and presents it with a new motivation. In Bhasa's version, the breaking of the thighs is over before the main scene of the play opens. Also, Bhasa portrays Duryodhana as a tragic hero with heroic courage and calm determination with which he accepts his inevitable end. Eventually, Duryodhana dies like a hero. Since the Mahabharata is deeply rooted in the Indian tradition those with traditionally fixed attitudes find it difficult to accept Bhasa's rendition of the \"Urubhanga\".\n\n\"Urubhanga\" has been translated into English.\n\nRangachar, S. \"Ūrubhaṅgam\". One act play. With introd., translation, notes. Mysore, Samskrita Sahitya Sadana, 1967\n\nDevadhar, C.R. \"Urubhangam, Urubhangam, Breaking of Thighs\", a Sanskrit One-Act Play Attributed to Bhasa. Poona: Oriental Book Agency, 1940. \n\nMenon, K.P.A. \"Complete Plays of Bhasa\" (Text With English Translation and Notes). 2003 ed. Nag Publishers, 2003. \n\nSarup, Lakshman, and A.C. Woolner. \"Thirteen Plays of Bhasa\". Delhi: Motilal Banarsidass, 1985.\n\nHaksa A.N. \"The Shattered Thigh and Other Plays\". England: Penguin Publishers, 2008.\n\n\n"}
