{"id": "58751193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58751193", "title": "Achad Arifin", "text": "Achad Arifin\n\nAchad Arifin was an Indonesian footballer. He competed in the men's tournament at the 1956 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "29473885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29473885", "title": "Alexei Volkoff", "text": "Alexei Volkoff\n\nAlexei Volkoff () is the alias and alter ego of Hartley Winterbottom (codename Agent X), a fictional character on the television series \"Chuck\". Volkoff is the head of Volkoff Industries. For the first six episodes of the fourth season, he was an unseen character, directing his operatives from behind the scenes. He first appeared in the seventh episode, \"Chuck Versus the First Fight\". For the first twenty-one episodes of the season, Volkoff is presented as the character's actual identity. \"Chuck Versus Agent X\", however, reveals that Volkoff is actually a cover, which, following a botched Intersect upload, Winterbottom unknowingly adopted as his true identity. Volkoff serves as the main antagonist for the first half of season four and tragic character in the second half. He is portrayed by Timothy Dalton.\n\nMary Elizabeth Bartowski (codename Frost) was ordered by the CIA to track him down when she was placed undercover in his organization under Project ISIS. It was first revealed in \"\" and over the course of the first part of the fourth season that Stephen J. Bartowski (codename Orion) had spent the twenty years following Mary's disappearance privately attempting to locate and stop Volkoff.\n\nAccording to Chuck Bartowski's flash in \"Chuck Versus the Cubic Z,\" Volkoff is 5'10\"-6'2\" tall and speaks Russian, German, and English. He was born in Moscow, Russia on March 30 or May 14, 1959, was indicted in New York for his involvement in arms trafficking, and is wanted for \"conspiracy to kill United States nationals, to murder, to destroy buildings and property of the United States, and to destroy the national defense utilities of the United States.\"\n\nVolkoff reveals to Dasha that his home address is 17 Tally Place, he has a dog named Kipper, he had his first sexual experience watching \"Lawrence of Arabia\", and he came from a broken home. He later reveals to Devon Woodcomb that he free climbed K2 without oxygen. It is unknown how much (if any) of this is true, though, as he was posing as Frost's MI6 handler both times. Further, the revelation that Volkoff was born Hartley Winterbottom and raised by his mother in Somerset, England, casts doubt on the place of birth given in Chuck's flash.\n\nVolkoff has been present in the series as early as \"Chuck Versus the Cougars,\" when Heather Chandler attempts to extort F-22 plans from her husband for Volkoff. In \"Chuck Versus the Cubic Z\", Volkoff arranges for her to be on the same prison transfer as Hugo Panzer and hires Panzer to kill her for the failure.\n\nFor the first six episodes of the fourth season, Volkoff directed his operatives from behind the scenes. In \"Chuck Versus the Anniversary,\" General Beckman assigned Chuck, Sarah Walker, and John Casey to the same task as Mary. Volkoff first appears in person in \"Chuck Versus the First Fight.\" Chuck meets him masquerading as \"Gregory Tuttle,\" Frost's enthusiastic, if bumbling and completely inexperienced in the matters of field-work, MI6 handler. With Chuck's assistance, \"Tuttle\" escapes several Volkoff agents and helps Chuck recover data that would clear Mary and prove she has been working deep undercover to bring down his organization. However, after being apparently wounded in a gunfight while recovering the disks, Volkoff follows Chuck, Sarah and Mary to Stephen Bartowski's base of operations and reveals himself, explaining that the entire operation was a plan to locate and destroy Stephen's intelligence. He attempted to kill Chuck and Sarah in the explosion that destroyed Stephen's work, but was unknowingly betrayed by Mary, who left a means for them to escape.\n\n\"Chuck Versus the Push Mix\" confirms that Stephen and Mary had remained in contact ever since her disappearance when going under cover, and that the final key to Volkoff's defeat was a virus written by Stephen which downloaded the entire Hydra database to a computer at his cabin. Volkoff is subsequently arrested by General Beckman. As Volkoff is taken away, he tells Chuck to have his mother come visit, saying, \"It's been fun.\"\n\nIt is revealed in \"Chuck Versus the Masquerade\" that Volkoff has a daughter named Vivian McArthur, who he has chosen as his successor. Her whole life, Volkoff had been training Vivian for the spy world without her knowledge. Vivian travels to the sealed Volkoff Industries headquarters in Moscow and enters Volkoff's office. It is revealed that the horse paperweight Volkoff used to shatter Yuri the Gobbler's glass eye is also compatible with a locket he gave to Vivian. Vivian connects the locket, unlocking a secret compartment, revealing a card to access Volkoff's bank vault in Macau, containing various pictures of Vivian's life. Vivian is last shown driving away with Volkoff's lawyer Riley to learn the truth. She then hires an agent named Damien to kill Chuck, following in her father's footsteps and effectively becoming Chuck's nemesis.\n\nThe CIA orders Vivian assassinated, but Chuck refuses to believe that Vivian would hire Damien. In a meet, Vivian gives Chuck a component of a Volkoff weapon known as the \"Norseman\". Chuck and Sarah visit Volkoff at River Hill Penitentiary, only to learn that he has begun a path to redemption. In exchange for a meeting with Vivian, Volkoff helps Team Bartowski find the weapon's tracking device and killing agent, along the way apologizing to those he had wronged in the past. When Volkoff panics and nearly gets Chuck and himself killed, Chuck encourages him to return to his old ways. It is then revealed that Vivian had communicated with Volkoff simply by giving Chuck the Norseman, and he goes to rejoin her. However, Vivian refuses to forgive her father or Chuck for their lying and leaves them to die. However, Volkoff saves the team, returning to spiritual ways. Before being returned to prison, Volkoff meets with Mary one last time and reminds her, \"Remember, family and friends are everything. Money, greed, and power are a dance with Satan. And he looks like me.\"\n\nIn \"Chuck Versus Agent X\", Chuck, Ellie, and the rest of the team discover that the CIA and Orion created Volkoff as a cover for Agent X, an English scientist named Hartley Winterbottom and a close friend of Stephen Bartowski. This was part of an early Intersect version implanted into Winterbottom shortly before Chuck was born, but the implant malfunctioned and apparently permanently overwrote Winterbottom's own personality with that of his cover identity. Casey recognizes the danger of what they have learned, and he hides Winterbottom's spy will and the key to protect them from government retribution.\n\nIn \"Chuck Versus the Cliffhanger\", Chuck seeks out Volkoff to help him find a cure for the Norseman, which Vivian used on Sarah. Unfortunately, CIA agent Clyde Decker, who was involved in the coverup of Agent X, anticipated his move and had Volkoff deprogrammed to his original identity as Hartley, who has no recollection of the past thirty years. Nonetheless, he tries to help Chuck by preparing an antidote but it is not strong enough for Sarah. Learning from Mary that Volkoff was developing an improved version of the antidote, he and Chuck went to Volkoff Industries, only for Hartley to get cold feet and run away. He later came back and talked down Vivian from killing Chuck. It is also revealed that he volunteered to go undercover and convinced Stephen to use his Intersect program on him. He and Vivian then start new lives with flawless IDs provided by Casey. He also sends Chuck and Sarah all the controlling interest shares to Volkoff Industries, allowing them to purchase the Buy More and start a freelance spy operation.\n\nIt was announced in October 2010 that actor Timothy Dalton (famous for the role of James Bond in \"The Living Daylights\" and \"Licence to Kill\") was cast in a recurring role as Mary's MI6 handler, Tuttle, who has a connection to Mary in the past. Series co-creator Josh Schwartz told \"Entertainment Weekly\", \"It's not the kind of character you'd [expect] him to play. There's nothing suave or debonair about him.\"\n\nThe reveal of Volkoff's true identity was highly praised. Eric Goldman of \"IGN\" has praised Dalton's performance, writing that he \"continues to shine as Volkoff. The mixture of menace and humor he brings is perfect.\" Goldman asked, \"How can you not share the delight of a villain who boasts that his boat has state of the art weaponry and security, 'and an old-fashioned ice cream parlor!' The fact that he was later seen having a menacing conversation, while eating ice cream, only added to that epicness.\"\n\nIn his first appearance, he claimed to be able to kill a man with a plastic fork. When threatened with torture by Dasha, he instantly reveals several irrelevant details about his life.\n\nIt is later revealed that Alexei loves Mary and will go to great lengths to protect her. However, he would rather kill Mary than let her live without him. When holding people at gunpoint, Volkoff cocks the hammer of his semi-automatic pistol, an action unnecessary due to recoil operation, simply because he likes the sound.\n\nVolkoff reveals to Sarah that he is a romantic who appreciates \"paintings, poetry, the art of massage.\" He later gleefully discusses Yuri the Gobbler by saying, \"Don't ask why he's called that... It's because he eats people!\" In the same episode, he expresses his disappointment before shooting Yuri in the head without hesitation. In \"Chuck Versus the Push Mix\", Volkoff reveals that the password to unlock Hydra is \"Death is the solution to all problems,\" a quote from his \"favorite poet and humanitarian, Joseph Stalin.\"\n\nAlthough Volkoff claims to be loved by children, the longest he ever saw his own daughter was ten minutes, with years between each meeting. Volkoff's customary greeting is a kiss to both cheeks and, in Chuck's case, the lips.\n\n\"Chuck Versus the Family Volkoff\" saw a drastic change in Volkoff's personality, as counseling sessions in prison have led him to regret the way he has lived his life. To prove that he is a changed man, he takes every opportunity to apologize to those he has wronged in the past. He is shown to play chess, nearly getting himself and Chuck killed when he panics after being checked in a computer chess game. It suddenly dawns upon him that he does not want to die. After encouragement by Chuck to return to his old ways, Volkoff is shown to have led the automated player into a trap, paralleling the way he has manipulated Team Bartowski throughout the episode. When his daughter leaves him to die for lying to her, however, Volkoff appears to have genuinely changed.\n\nIt is first revealed in \"Chuck Versus Agent X\" that Alexei Volkoff is actually a constructed identity. As Agent X, Volkoff possesses two distinct personalities: the dangerous arms dealer and his true, long lost personality as the gentle scientist with a dislike for guns, Hartley Winterbottom.\n"}
{"id": "49919232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49919232", "title": "Anatoli Kacharava", "text": "Anatoli Kacharava\n\nAnatoli Kacharava (, 1910 - 23 May 1982) was a famous Georgian sea captain serving in the Soviet navy. He is known for taking part in the arctic theater of the Second World War where he commanded a Soviet icebreaker \"A. Sibiryakov\" until its destruction by a German cruiser \"Admiral Scheer\" in August 24, 1942. Kacharava was severely wounded but survived, and was one of 22 of the ship's company that were captured by the Germans.\n\nKacharava was born in the summer of 1910 in a coastal town of Sokhumi, Georgia, then part of the Russian Empire. His parents, Aleksey Kacharava and Natalia Kacharava, were traders. He received education in several technical and maritime schools, namely Sokhumi Industrial College, Kherson Maritime School and Fishery College of the Far-East. Afterwards, he joined the navy aboard Soviet icebreaker A. Sibiryakov as a senior lieutenant. He was later promoted to a captain during the Second World War.\n\n"}
{"id": "30712190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30712190", "title": "Andrew Nori", "text": "Andrew Nori\n\nAndrew Nori (1952 – 9 July 2013) was a Solomon Islands lawyer and politician, arguably best known for his role in the ethnic conflict on Guadalcanal in the late 1990s and early 2000s.\n\nHis father, Nori Nono'oohimae, was one of the founders of the Maasina Ruru movement of civil disobedience against British colonial rule, in the 1940s.\n\nA barrister by profession, Andrew Nori was \"one of the first Solomon Islanders to qualify as a lawyer\", and eventually became president of the Solomon Islands bar association.\n\nHe began his political career when he was elected to the National Parliament in the 1984 general election, as MP for the West 'Are'are constituency. Prime Minister Sir Peter Kenilorea appointed him Minister for Home Affairs and Provincial Government, a position which he held for four years. He was re-elected in 1989, and, as head of the Nationalist Front for Progress, was for a time appointed Leader of the Official Opposition to Prime Minister Solomon Mamaloni's government. Re-elected to Parliament for a third term in 1993, he was appointed Minister for Finance in Prime Minister Francis Billy Hilly's government. In September 1994, he resigned in the face of reports that over A$70,000 had been transferred to his personal bank account from \"an unnamed overseas source\". He stated that he had \"listed the amount with the relevant leadership code commission\", but was stepping down \"until his name was cleared\". He did not regain his Cabinet position, and was defeated in his bid to retain his Parliament seat in the 1997 general election. This marked the end of his career in national politics.\n\nWhen migrants from Malaita in Guadalcanal began to be subject to violence from local ethnic militant groups in late 1999, and the armed Malaita Eagle Force was formed to defend their interests, Nori, himself a Malaitan, rapidly emerged as the \"leader\" or \"spokesman\" of the Eagle Force.\n\nOn 5 June 2000, he led the Eagle Force into a coup d'état against Prime Minister Bartholomew Ulufa'alu, taking him hostage at gunpoint and demanding that he resign. Nori accused Ulufa'alu of not having prevented an escalation in the ethnic conflicts on Guadalcanal. The Eagle Force was temporarily described as \"in control\" of the capital city, Honiara. Nori told the Australian media he had led the coup because there was \"a need for an immediate change in leadership and for the issues relating to peace to be focussed on more seriously and for a more efficient method and mechanism to be established to attend to peace issues and on the negotiation between the warring parties on Guadalcanal\". The coup rapidly led to the arrival of a Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group delegation, which was welcomed by Nori, who expressed his hope that it would result in peace being brokered between the ethnic factions. Parliament voted to elect Manasseh Sogavare to the premiership, replacing Ulufa'alu, and the ethnic conflicts ceased for the most part with the Townsville Peace Agreement in October.\n\nIn September 2000, the Pacific Media Watch accused Nori of having threatened journalist Duran Angiki and his family over an allegedly incorrect report published by the latter on Nori.\n\nIn 2009, still practicing as a lawyer, Nori made headlines again by publicly criticising the Political Parties Registration and Administration Bill, saying it would entrench rather than resolve political instability in the country.\n\nAs of early 2011, he was working as a consultant to the Customary Land Reform Unit, researching rules of customary land ownership throughout the country with an aim towards a government policy \"to codify customary land laws and have them elevated to statutory status\". In 2012, he was elected President of the National Olympic Committee of Solomon Islands.\n\nHe died in hospital in Honiara on 9 July 2013, \"after a long illness\". In its obituary, the newspaper \"Solomon Star\" praised him as a \"great leader\" and one of the \"greatest figures\" in the country's history.\n\nAndrew Nori's wife, Delmah Nori, founded the Twelve Pillars to Peace and Prosperity Party in 2010. She is also the former president of the Solomon Islands Netball Association.\n"}
{"id": "1983858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1983858", "title": "Baby Doll (wrestler)", "text": "Baby Doll (wrestler)\n\nNickla Ann Roberts (born February 13, 1962) is an American semi-retired professional wrestler and valet, better known by her ring name, \"The Perfect 10\" Baby Doll. She is best known for her appearances with World Class Championship Wrestling and Jim Crockett Promotions in the 1980s.\n\nRoberts was born in Lubbock, Texas to Nick Roberts and Lorraine Johnson. Both Nick Roberts and Johnson were professional wrestlers and promoted weekly events at the Fair Park Coliseum. During her childhood, Roberts sold programs at her father's events, in the process befriending future wrestlers Bruce and Keith Hart and Kerry and Kevin Von Erich. From an early age, Roberts aimed to become a professional wrestler.\n\nIn the summer of 1984, while training to become an emergency medical technician (EMT), Roberts overheard her parents say that her childhood crush, World Class Championship Wrestling (WCCW) wrestler Gino Hernandez, was in need of a valet. Unbeknownst to her parents, Roberts contacted David Manning, the WCCW booker, and proposed that she could manage Hernandez. After Manning agreed, Roberts left college and traveled to San Antonio, Texas, making her debut alongside Hernandez in the sold-out Freeman Coliseum. She went on to train under Nelson Royal for the remainder of the summer.\n\nPerforming under the ring name Andrea, the Lady Giant (a reference to André the Giant), Roberts was booked to dominate both male and female wrestlers in the ring. Her character had a punk haircut and typically wore leather pants, a leather jacket, metal studded belts, spiked dog collars and wristbands and scarves and T-shirts relating to rock bands such as Aerosmith and Mötley Crüe. Hernandez and Roberts feuded with Mike Von Erich and his manager, Sunshine.\n\nRoberts left WCCW in December 1984. In February 1985, she joined the National Wrestling Alliance member Jim Crockett Promotions (JCP). She was introduced by Tully Blanchard as his new manager, \"The Perfect 10\" Baby Doll. She assisted Blanchard during his feuds with Dusty Rhodes and Magnum T.A.. After Rhodes defeated Blanchard for the NWA World Television Championship at The Great American Bash on July 6, 1985, Roberts was forced to be Rhodes' valet for 30 days. During this time, vignettes aired in which Rhodes tried to turn her into a \"real lady.\" \n\nIn 1986, Blanchard adopted James J. Dillon as his manager, a pairing that would result in the formation of the original Four Horsemen. After Blanchard publicly fired Roberts and slapped her for failing to save him from an attack by Magnum T.A., she was rescued by Dusty Rhodes, and went on to assist Rhodes during his feud with the Four Horsemen.\n\nDuring a weekly Monday night television taping in Greenville, South Carolina in 1986, Jim Cornette and Beautiful Bobby Eaton attacked Roberts with a tennis racquet. She responded by introducing The Warlord as her newest client. The Warlord briefly feuded with Big Bubba Rogers before leaving JCP to further his training. At the 1986 Great American Bash on July 5, 1986, Roberts, Rhodes and Magnum T.A. defeated Cornette and The Midnight Express in a steel cage match. In addition to Rhodes and Magnum T.A., She also teamed with the Rock and Roll Express and the Road Warriors against Cornette and the Midnight Express throughout the 1986 Great American Bash Tour.\n\nOn August 9, 1986, Roberts turned on Rhodes, helping Ric Flair retain the NWA World Heavyweight Championship during a title bout with Rhodes in St. Louis, Missouri. Roberts briefly managed Flair before the JCP booking office sent her to the NWA Central States territory due to their disapproval of her marriage to fellow wrestler Michael \"Sam Houston\" Smith.\n\nIn 1987, Roberts left JCP and joined the Oklahoma City, Oklahoma-based Universal Wrestling Federation (UWF) alongside her husband. Upon leaving the UWF, she began appearing on the independent circuit with Houston.\n\nIn 1988, Roberts returned to Jim Crockett Promotions, managing Larry Zbyszko during his feud with Barry Windham over the NWA Western States Heritage Championship. Her tenure was short lived as her husband was then working for the rival World Wrestling Federation (WWF) in what was regarded as a conflict of interest.\n\nRoberts heard about the WWF restarting their women's division and trained with Nelson Royal to improve her ring-skills alongside her sister-in-law Robin Smith. Both tried out with the WWF, but Smith was chosen over Roberts.\n\nAt the inaugural WrestleReunion event on January 29, 2005 in Tampa, Florida, Roberts accompanied Jeff Jarrett to ringside for his successful defense of the NWA World Heavyweight Championship in a bout with Tully Blanchard. She went on to manage a number of wrestlers on the independent circuit throughout the late 2000s (decade). In 2016, Baby Doll appeared for Big Time Wrestling in Spartanburg, South Carolina, and Morganton, North Carolina in \"Battle of the Sexes\" matches vs. Jim Cornette.\n\nWhile at high school, Roberts set several records for the shot put.\n\nRoberts married fellow wrestler Michael \"Sam Houston\" Smith on July 30, 1986 in Lubbock, Texas. She gave birth to two daughters; Mikka Tyler Smith, in 1991, and Mikala Joy Smith, in 1992. Roberts retired from professional wrestling upon the birth of her second daughter, opting to devote her time to her children. She and Smith separated in 1991, briefly reconciled in 1992 and ultimately were divorced on February 17, 1995.\n\nAfter retiring from professional wrestling, Roberts worked in a number of fields, including baggage handling, cable installation, the manufacture of apparel for wrestlers and 13 years at Wal-Mart. .\n\nNickla married Chad Byrd on July 4, 2017 and they reside in Caldwell County, North Carolina.\n\n"}
{"id": "49003943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49003943", "title": "Badzhgard", "text": "Badzhgard\n\nBadzhgard or Bashkurd, historically Bashkiria () is a historical and geographical region in the Urals, the traditional border between Northern Asia and Eastern Europe in modern Russia, inhabited by the Bashkirs. Today, the territory is administratively split between the Republic of Bashkortostan, Orenburg and Chelyabinsk oblasts, parts of the Republic of Tatarstan, the south-eastern part of Udmurtia, the southern part of the Perm Krai, the south-western part of the Sverdlovsk oblast, the western part of the Kurgan, the north-eastern part of Samara, the eastern part of the Saratov regions.\n\nVarious other names have been applied to the region throughout its history, including: \"Bashgurd, Bashgird, Bashgird, Baskardiya , Bashkyrd, Bashdzhard, Pascatir, Bashirdi\" etc. The reference area titled \"Bashgurd\" is found in the Fazalallah Rashid ad-Din (14th century), an \"Oghuz-name\".\n"}
{"id": "3060244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3060244", "title": "Baruch Ashlag", "text": "Baruch Ashlag\n\nRabbi Baruch Shalom HaLevi Ashlag (also known as the RABASH) (January 22, 1907 – September 13, 1991) was a Kabbalist, the firstborn and successor of Rabbi Yehuda Ashlag also known as Baal Hasulam, the author of \"The Sulam\" commentary on the \"Zohar\". Among his writings: \"Shlavey ha Sulam\" (\"Rungs [of] the Ladder\"), \"Dargot ha Sulam\" (\"Steps [of] the Ladder\"), \"Igrot Rabash\" (\"Letters [of the] Rabash\").\n\nBaruch Shalom ha Levi Ashlag (also known as the \"Rabash\") was born in Warsaw, Congress Poland, Russian Empire on January 22, 1907. He began his Kabbalah studying with his father's (Kabbalist Rabbi Yehuda Ashlag) selected students at the age of nine, and joined him on his trips to the Rabbi of Porisov and to the Rabbi of Belz. In 1921, at age 13, he immigrated with his family to the Land of Israel, and continued his schooling at the Hasidic institution \"Torat Emet\".\n\nHe was ordained as a rabbi at age 20 by the chief rabbis of Israel at that time, Abraham Isaac Kook, Yosef Chaim Sonnenfeld, and Yaakov Moshe Charlap. He did not want to use the knowledge of Torah he had acquired for a living. For most of his life, he was a simple worker, doing road works, construction works, and low-level clerical work.\nWhen the Rabash grew, he became his father's prime disciple. He joined his father (Yehuda Ashlag, author of the Sulam commentary on The Book of Zohar) on his trips, did his father's errands, and provided for his father's every need.\n\nHe would often study with his father in private, and what he'd heard from his father he wrote in his personal notebook. Thus, thousands of unique notes were accumulated, documenting Rabbi Yehuda Ashlag's explanations concerning the spiritual work of an individual. (It should be pointed out that Rabbi Yehuda Ashlag is considered one of the foremost Kabbalists of the 20th century. He is known as Baal HaSulam (Master of the Ladder) for his Sulam (Ladder) commentary on The Book of Zohar.\n\nHe studied Kabbalah with his father for more than thirty years. When his father, Baal HaSulam, fell ill, he appointed the Rabash to give the lessons to his disciples in his stead. After the passing of \"Baal HaSulam\", the Rabash took his father's place as the leader of the Ashlag Hasidim, and dedicated his life to continue his father's unique way, to interpret and expand on his father's writings, and to disseminate the Kabbalah among the people.\n\nDue to disputes concerning the rights to publish The Book of Zohar with the Sulam commentary that his father wrote, Baruch Ashlag left Israel for three years, spending most of that time in the United Kingdom. During that period, he also held discussions with Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson of Lubavitch, Rabbi Joel Teitelbaum of Satmar, and other prominent rabbis. He also taught Kabbalah in Gateshead and in other cities in the U.K.\n\nUpon his return to Israel, the Rabash continued to study and to teach. He did not want to become publicly known as a Kabbalist; hence, as did his father, he declined any offers for official posts.\nAfter the end of the 1960s, he changed his ways and began teaching Kabbalah in broader circles. He would travel to wherever there was even the smallest demand to hear about Kabbalah. Among the cities he frequented were Hebron, Tiberias, and Jerusalem. In 1976, he expanded his seminary, and his humble home in Bnei Brak became a spacious synagogue. He himself moved to the second floor of the building. He would occasionally travel to Tiberias for purposes of seclusion.\n\nIn 1983, some forty new students joined the group of Kabbalists that the Rabash had been teaching up to that point. To help them \"fit in\" with the group more easily and quickly, he began to compose essays describing the spiritual evolution of an individual, and the basics of the work in a group of Kabbalists. From 1984 and up to his last day in 1991, he would write a weekly article and give it to his disciples. In time, his disciples collected the essays he had written and published them in a five volume publication known as \"Shlavey ha Sulam\" (\"Rungs [of] the Ladder\").\nRav Baruch Shalom HaLevi Ashlag died on September 13, 1991. He was interred on Har HaMenuchot.\n\nThe Rabash's primary engagement was interpretation and expansion of his father's (Baal HaSulam) compositions. The Rabash's essays are a far easier read than compositions of earlier Kabbalists, since they are written in a simple language. Baruch Ashlag dedicated most of his efforts to elaborate on an individual's spiritual path, from the very first steps, when one asks, \"What is the meaning of my life?\" to one's climb toward the revelation of the spiritual reality.\nHis disciples testify that \"the Rabash believed that any person, man or woman, and even the youngest child can study the internality of the Torah, if they only wish to complete the correction of their souls\".\n\nHis primary publications:\n\n\nThe book title comes from the writing that appeared on the cover of the notebook in which it was written, where the Rabash himself wrote, \"Shamati\" (I heard). From the 2nd printing onward, the book also contains \"The Melodies of the Upper World,\" music notes to 15 of the melodies Baal HaSulam and the Rabash composed.\n\nRabbi Yehuda asserted that a human being is a social being and that one cannot exist without a society that provides for one's basic needs, and projects its values upon its members. As his father before him, the Rabash believed that an individual is constantly affected by the environment he is in. From the moment a person enters a certain society, he no longer has freedom of choice and is completely subordinate to its influence. According to Ashlag, one's only choice is the choice of the environment that will project the values one wants to adopt.\n\nRabbi Baruch Ashlag spent many years formulating the fundamentals of building a co-operative society that strives to achieve spirituality, the way Kabbalists perceived it throughout the generations: achieving love of God by means of first attaining love of man. For this reason, the bulk of Rabash's essays are dedicated to explication and simplification of the principles of the spiritual work of an individual within such a society. The actual spiritual work is revealed through study and a process of internal transformation. Therefore the teaching cannot be understood simply intellectually and is dependent on the inner processes the disciple experiences.\n\nRabbi Baruch Ashlag asserted that two elements are imperative to one's spiritual path. First, one must find an environment that will promote one as safely and as quickly as possible toward \"equivalence of form\" with one's Maker. Next, one must know how to approach the study of Kabbalah correctly, so that no time is lost.\nOnce we've explained the first element in the previous item, let us now explain the second: Kabbalists throughout the generations believed that during the study, a Light shines on a person's soul, a \"Surrounding Light.\" To receive that Light within the soul, one need only want that Light to permeate one's soul. In other words, one needs to want to experience the states that the Kabbalist who wrote the book is describing. However, this is a complex process, requiring time and considerable effort on the part of the student, since one must reach a state of \"prayer,\" i.e. to formulate a complete desire to discover the Higher Reality. The emphasis in his teachings is not on understanding the material, but on the individual's desire. From the moment a person acquires a complete measure of desire to reach spirituality, the spiritual world opens and one discovers the Upper Worlds described by the author.\n\nIn \"Shamati\", essay 209, he mentions three conditions to reach \"genuine\" prayer, a complete \"desire\" for spirituality: \n\nAfter his demise, several of his disciples continued to study according to his method: Rabbi Avraham Mordecai Gottlieb, Dzerke Rebbe; Rabbi Aharon Brizel, who currently teaches a Hasidic version of this method in New York; as well as Rabbi Feivel Okowita, who heads the Kabbalah Institute of America. Michael Laitman, Rabash's personal assistant, heads Bnei Baruch, an organization that is based in Petach Tikva, Israel and is dedicated to disseminating the wisdom of Kabbalah to the world.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19283178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19283178", "title": "Benito Mussolini", "text": "Benito Mussolini\n\nBenito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini (; ; 29 July 1883 – 28 April 1945) was an Italian politician and journalist who was the leader of the National Fascist Party (\"Partito Nazionale Fascista\", PNF). He ruled Italy as Prime Minister from 1922 to 1943; he constitutionally led the country until 1925, when he dropped the pretense of democracy and established a dictatorship.\n\nKnown as \"Il Duce\" (\"The Leader\"), Mussolini was the founder of Italian Fascism. In 1912, Mussolini had been a leading member of the National Directorate of the Italian Socialist Party (PSI), but was expelled from the PSI for advocating military intervention in World War I, in opposition to the party's stance on neutrality. Mussolini served in the Royal Italian Army during the war until he was wounded and discharged in 1917. Mussolini denounced the PSI, his views now centering on nationalism instead of socialism and later founded the fascist movement which came to oppose egalitarianism and class conflict, instead advocating \"revolutionary nationalism\" transcending class lines. Following the March on Rome in October 1922, Mussolini became the youngest Prime Minister in Italian history until the appointment of Matteo Renzi in February 2014. After removing all political opposition through his secret police and outlawing labor strikes, Mussolini and his followers consolidated their power through a series of laws that transformed the nation into a one-party dictatorship. Within five years, Mussolini had established dictatorial authority by both legal and extraordinary means and aspired to create a totalitarian state. In 1929, Mussolini signed the Lateran Treaty with the Vatican, ending decades of struggle between the Italian state and the Papacy, and recognized the independence of Vatican City.\n\nAfter the Abyssinia Crisis of 1935–1936, Mussolini invaded Ethiopia in the Second Italo–Ethiopian War. The invasion was condemned by the Western powers and was answered with economic sanctions against Italy. Relations between Germany and Italy improved due to Hitler's support of the invasion. In 1936, Mussolini surrendered Austria to the German sphere of influence, signed the treaty of cooperation with Germany and proclaimed the creation of a Rome–Berlin Axis. From 1936 through 1939, Mussolini provided huge amounts of military support to Franco's forces in the Spanish Civil War. This active intervention further distanced Italy from France and Britain. Mussolini had sought to delay a major war in Europe, but Germany invaded Poland on 1 September 1939, resulting in declarations of war by France and the UK and the start of World War II. On 10 June 1940—with the Fall of France imminent—Italy officially entered the war on the side of Germany, though Mussolini was aware that Italy did not have the military capacity and resources to carry out a long war with the British Empire. He believed that after the imminent French armistice, Italy could gain territorial concessions from France, and he could then concentrate his forces on a major offensive in North Africa, where British and Commonwealth forces were outnumbered by Italian forces. However, the British government refused to accept proposals for a peace that would involve accepting Axis victories in Eastern and Western Europe; plans for an invasion of the UK did not proceed and the war continued. In October 1940, Mussolini sent Italian forces into Greece, starting the Greco-Italian War. The invasion failed and the following Greek counter-offensive pushed the Italians back to occupied Albania. The Greek debacle and simultaneous defeats against the British in North Africa reduced Italy to dependence on Germany.\n\nBeginning in June 1941, Mussolini sent Italian forces to participate in the invasion of the Soviet Union, and Italy declared war on the United States in December. In 1943, Italy suffered one disaster after another: by February the Red Army had completely destroyed the Italian Army in Russia; in May the Axis collapsed in North Africa; on 9 July the Allies invaded Sicily; and by the 16th it became clear the German summer offensive in the USSR had failed. As a consequence, early on 25 July, the Grand Council of Fascism passed a motion of no confidence for Mussolini; later that day the King dismissed him as head of government and had him placed in custody, appointing Pietro Badoglio to succeed him as Prime Minister. On 12 September 1943, Mussolini was rescued from captivity in the Gran Sasso raid by German paratroopers and \"Waffen-SS\" commandos led by Major Otto-Harald Mors.\n\nAdolf Hitler, after meeting with the rescued former dictator, then put Mussolini in charge of a puppet regime in northern Italy, the Italian Social Republic (, RSI), informally known as the \"Salò Republic\". In late April 1945, in the wake of near total defeat, Mussolini and his mistress Clara Petacci attempted to flee to Switzerland, but both were captured by Italian communist partisans and summarily executed by firing squad on 28 April 1945 near Lake Como. His body was then taken to Milan, where it was hung upside down at a service station to publicly confirm his demise.\n\nMussolini was born on 29 July 1883 in Dovia di Predappio, a small town in the province of Forlì in Romagna. Later, during the Fascist era, Predappio was dubbed \"Duce's town\" and Forlì was called \"Duce's city\", with pilgrims going to Predappio and Forlì to see the birthplace of Mussolini.\n\nBenito Mussolini's father, Alessandro Mussolini, was a blacksmith and a socialist, while his mother, Rosa (née Maltoni), was a devout Catholic schoolteacher. Owing to his father's political leanings, Mussolini was named Benito after Mexican leftist president Benito Juárez, while his middle names Andrea and Amilcare were from Italian socialists Andrea Costa and Amilcare Cipriani. Benito was the eldest of his parents' three children. His siblings Arnaldo and Edvige followed.\n\nAs a young boy, Mussolini would spend some time helping his father in his smithy. Mussolini's early political views were heavily influenced by his father who idolized 19th-century Italian nationalist figures with humanist tendencies such as Carlo Pisacane, Giuseppe Mazzini and Giuseppe Garibaldi. His father's political outlook combined views of anarchist figures like Carlo Cafiero and Mikhail Bakunin, the military authoritarianism of Garibaldi, and the nationalism of Mazzini. In 1902, at the anniversary of Garibaldi's death, Mussolini made a public speech in praise of the republican nationalist. The conflict between his parents about religion meant that, unlike most Italians, Mussolini was not baptized at birth and would not be until much later in life. As a compromise with his mother, Mussolini was sent to a boarding school run by Salesian monks. After joining a new school, Mussolini achieved good grades, and qualified as an elementary schoolmaster in 1901.\n\nIn 1902, Mussolini emigrated to Switzerland, partly to avoid military service. He worked briefly as a stonemason in Geneva, Fribourg and Bern, but was unable to find a permanent job.\n\nDuring this time he studied the ideas of the philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche, the sociologist Vilfredo Pareto, and the syndicalist Georges Sorel. Mussolini also later credited the Christian socialist Charles Péguy and the syndicalist Hubert Lagardelle as some of his influences. Sorel's emphasis on the need for overthrowing decadent liberal democracy and capitalism by the use of violence, direct action, the general strike and the use of neo-Machiavellian appeals to emotion, impressed Mussolini deeply.\n\nMussolini became active in the Italian socialist movement in Switzerland, working for the paper \"L'Avvenire del Lavoratore\", organizing meetings, giving speeches to workers, and serving as secretary of the Italian workers' union in Lausanne. Angelica Balabanov reportedly introduced him to Vladimir Lenin, who later criticized Italian socialists for having lost Mussolini from their cause. In 1903, he was arrested by the Bernese police because of his advocacy of a violent general strike, spent two weeks in jail, was deported to Italy, was set free there, and returned to Switzerland. In 1904, having been arrested again in Geneva and expelled for falsifying his papers, he returned to Lausanne, where he attended the University of Lausanne's Department of Social Science, following the lessons of Vilfredo Pareto. In 1937, the University of Lausanne awarded Mussolini an honorary doctorate on the occasion of its 400th anniversary.\n\nIn December 1904, he returned to Italy to take advantage of an amnesty for desertion, for which he had been convicted \"in absentia\".\n\nSince a condition for being pardoned was serving in the army, he joined the corps of the Bersaglieri in Forlì on 30 December 1904. After serving for two years in the military (from January 1905 until September 1906), he returned to teaching.\n\nIn February 1909, Mussolini once again left Italy, this time to take the job as the secretary of the labor party in the Italian-speaking city of Trento, which at the time was part of Austria-Hungary. He also did office work for the local Socialist Party, and edited its newspaper \"L'Avvenire del Lavoratore\" (\"The Future of the Worker\"). Returning to Italy, he spent a brief time in Milan, and then in 1910 he returned to his hometown of Forlì, where he edited the weekly \"Lotta di classe\" (\"The Class Struggle\").\n\nMussolini thought of himself as an intellectual and was considered to be well-read. He read avidly; his favorites in European philosophy included Sorel, the Italian Futurist Filippo Tommaso Marinetti, French Socialist Gustave Hervé, Italian anarchist Errico Malatesta and German philosophers Friedrich Engels and Karl Marx, the founders of Marxism. Mussolini had taught himself French and German and translated excerpts from Nietzsche, Schopenhauer and Kant.\n\nDuring this time, he published \"Il Trentino veduto da un Socialista\" (\"Trentino as seen by a Socialist\") in the radical periodical \"La Voce\". He also wrote several essays about German literature, some stories, and one novel: \"L'amante del Cardinale: Claudia Particella, romanzo storico\" (\"The Cardinal's Mistress\"). This novel he co-wrote with Santi Corvaja, and was published as a serial book in the Trento newspaper \"Il Popolo\". It was released in installments from 20 January to 11 May 1910. The novel was bitterly anticlerical, and years later was withdrawn from circulation after Mussolini made a truce with the Vatican.\n\nBy now, he was one of Italy's most prominent socialists. In September 1911, Mussolini participated in a riot, led by socialists, against the Italian war in Libya. He bitterly denounced Italy's \"imperialist war\", an action that earned him a five-month jail term. After his release he helped expel from the Socialist Party two \"revisionists\" who had supported the war, Ivanoe Bonomi and Leonida Bissolati. As a result, he was rewarded the editorship of the Socialist Party newspaper \"Avanti!\" Under his leadership, its circulation soon rose from 20,000 to 100,000. John Gunther in 1940 called him \"one of the best journalists alive\"; he was a working reporter while preparing for the March on Rome, and wrote for the Hearst News Service until 1935. Mussolini was so familiar with Marxist literature that in his own writings he would not only quote from well-known Marxist works but also from the relatively obscure works. During this period, Mussolini, like all revolutionaries, considered himself a Marxist and he described Marx as \"the greatest of all theorists of socialism.\"\n\nIn 1913, he published \"Giovanni Hus, il veridico\" (\"Jan Hus, true prophet\"), an historical and political biography about the life and mission of the Czech ecclesiastic reformer Jan Hus and his militant followers, the Hussites. During this socialist period of his life, Mussolini sometimes used the pen name \"Vero Eretico\" (\"sincere heretic\").\n\nMussolini rejected egalitarianism, a core doctrine of socialism. He was influenced by Nietzsche's anti-Christian ideas and negation of God's existence. Mussolini felt that socialism had faltered, in view of the failures of Marxist determinism and social democratic reformism, and believed that Nietzsche's ideas would strengthen socialism. While associated with socialism, Mussolini's writings eventually indicated that he had abandoned Marxism and egalitarianism in favor of Nietzsche's übermensch concept and anti-egalitarianism.\n\nA number of socialist parties initially supported World War I at the time it began in August 1914. Once the war started, Austrian, British, French, and German socialists followed the rising nationalist current by supporting their country's intervention in the war. The outbreak of the war had resulted in a surge of Italian nationalism and the war was supported by a variety of political factions. One of the most prominent and popular Italian nationalist supporters of the war was Gabriele d'Annunzio who promoted Italian irredentism and helped sway the Italian public to support intervention in the war. The Italian Liberal Party under the leadership of Paolo Boselli promoted intervention in the war on the side of the Allies and utilized the Società Dante Alighieri to promote Italian nationalism. Italian socialists were divided on whether to support the war or oppose it. Prior to Mussolini taking a position on the war, a number of revolutionary syndicalists had announced their support of intervention, including Alceste De Ambris, Filippo Corridoni, and Angelo Oliviero Olivetti. The Italian Socialist Party decided to oppose the war after anti-militarist protestors had been killed, resulting in a general strike called Red Week.\n\nMussolini initially held official support for the party's decision and, in an August 1914 article, Mussolini wrote \"Down with the War. We remain neutral.\" He saw the war as an opportunity, both for his own ambitions as well as those of socialists and Italians. He was influenced by anti-Austrian Italian nationalist sentiments, believing that the war offered Italians in Austria-Hungary the chance to liberate themselves from rule of the Habsburgs. He eventually decided to declare support for the war by appealing to the need for socialists to overthrow the Hohenzollern and Habsburg monarchies in Germany and Austria-Hungary who he said had consistently repressed socialism.\n\nMussolini further justified his position by denouncing the Central Powers for being reactionary powers; for pursuing imperialist designs against Belgium and Serbia as well as historically against Denmark, France, and against Italians, since hundreds of thousands of Italians were under Habsburg rule. He argued that the fall of Hohenzollern and Habsburg monarchies and the repression of \"reactionary\" Turkey would create conditions beneficial for the working class. While he was supportive of the Entente powers, Mussolini responded to the conservative nature of Tsarist Russia by stating that the mobilization required for the war would undermine Russia's reactionary authoritarianism and the war would bring Russia to social revolution. He said that for Italy the war would complete the process of \"Risorgimento\" by uniting the Italians in Austria-Hungary into Italy and by allowing the common people of Italy to be participating members of the Italian nation in what would be Italy's first national war. Thus he claimed that the vast social changes that the war could offer meant that it should be supported as a revolutionary war.\n\nAs Mussolini's support for the intervention solidified, he came into conflict with socialists who opposed the war. He attacked the opponents of the war and claimed that those proletarians who supported pacifism were out of step with the proletarians who had joined the rising interventionist vanguard that was preparing Italy for a revolutionary war. He began to criticize the Italian Socialist Party and socialism itself for having failed to recognize the national problems that had led to the outbreak of the war. He was expelled from the party for his support of intervention.\n\nThe following excerpts are from a police report prepared by the Inspector-General of Public Security in Milan, G. Gasti, that describe his background and his position on the First World War that resulted in his ousting from the Italian Socialist Party. The Inspector General wrote:\nIn his summary, the Inspector also noted:\n\nAfter being ousted by the Italian Socialist Party for his support of Italian intervention, Mussolini made a radical transformation, ending his support for class conflict and joining in support of revolutionary nationalism transcending class lines. He formed the interventionist newspaper \"Il Popolo d'Italia\" and the \"Fasci Rivoluzionari d'Azione Internazionalista\" (\"Revolutionary Fasci for International Action\") in October 1914. His nationalist support of intervention enabled him to raise funds from Ansaldo (an armaments firm) and other companies to create \"Il Popolo d'Italia\" to convince socialists and revolutionaries to support the war. Further funding for Mussolini's Fascists during the war came from French sources, beginning in May 1915. A major source of this funding from France is believed to have been from French socialists who sent support to dissident socialists who wanted Italian intervention on France's side.\n\nOn 5 December 1914, Mussolini denounced orthodox socialism for failing to recognize that the war had made national identity and loyalty more significant than class distinction. He fully demonstrated his transformation in a speech that acknowledged the nation as an entity, a notion he had rejected prior to the war, saying:\nMussolini continued to promote the need of a revolutionary vanguard elite to lead society. He no longer advocated a proletarian vanguard, but instead a vanguard led by dynamic and revolutionary people of any social class.\nThough he denounced orthodox socialism and class conflict, he maintained at the time that he was a nationalist socialist and a supporter of the legacy of nationalist socialists in Italy's history, such as Giuseppe Garibaldi, Giuseppe Mazzini, and Carlo Pisacane. As for the Italian Socialist Party and its support of orthodox socialism, he claimed that his failure as a member of the party to revitalize and transform it to recognize the contemporary reality revealed the hopelessness of orthodox socialism as outdated and a failure. This perception of the failure of orthodox socialism in the light of the outbreak of World War I was not solely held by Mussolini; other pro-interventionist Italian socialists such as Filippo Corridoni and Sergio Panunzio had also denounced classical Marxism in favor of intervention.\n\nThese basic political views and principles formed the basis of Mussolini's newly formed political movement, the \"Fasci Rivoluzionari d'Azione Internazionalista\" in 1914, who called themselves \"Fascisti\" (Fascists). At this time, the Fascists did not have an integrated set of policies and the movement was small, ineffective in its attempts to hold mass meetings, and was regularly harassed by government authorities and orthodox socialists. Antagonism between the interventionists, including the Fascists, versus the anti-interventionist orthodox socialists resulted in violence between the Fascists and socialists. The opposition and attacks by the anti-interventionist revolutionary socialists against the Fascists and other interventionists were so violent that even democratic socialists who opposed the war such as Anna Kuliscioff said that the Italian Socialist Party had gone too far in a campaign of silencing the freedom of speech of supporters of the war. These early hostilities between the Fascists and the revolutionary socialists shaped Mussolini's conception of the nature of Fascism in its support of political violence.\n\nMussolini became an ally with the irredentist politician and journalist Cesare Battisti and—like him—entered the Army and served in the war. \"He was sent to the zone of operations where he was seriously injured by the explosion of a grenade.\"\n\nThe Inspector General continued:\nMussolini's military experience is told in his work \"Diario di guerra\". Overall, he totaled about nine months of active, front-line trench warfare. During this time, he contracted paratyphoid fever. His military exploits ended in 1917 when he was wounded accidentally by the explosion of a mortar bomb in his trench. He was left with at least 40 shards of metal in his body. He was discharged from the hospital in August 1917 and resumed his editor-in-chief position at his new paper, \"Il Popolo d'Italia\". He wrote there positive articles about Czechoslovak Legions in Italy.\n\nOn 25 December 1915, in Treviglio, he contracted a marriage with his fellow countrywoman Rachele Guidi, who had already borne him a daughter, Edda, at Forlì in 1910. In 1915, he had a son with Ida Dalser, a woman born in Sopramonte, a village near Trento. He legally recognized this son on 11 January 1916.\n\nBy the time he returned from service in the Allied forces of World War I, very little remained of Mussolini the socialist. Indeed, he was now convinced that socialism as a doctrine had largely been a failure. In 1917 Mussolini got his start in politics with the help of a £100 weekly wage (the equivalent of £6000 ) from the British security service MI5, to keep anti-war protestors at home and to publish pro-war propaganda. This help was authorized by Sir Samuel Hoare. In early 1918 Mussolini called for the emergence of a man \"ruthless and energetic enough to make a clean sweep\" to revive the Italian nation. Much later Mussolini said he felt by 1919 \"Socialism as a doctrine was already dead; it continued to exist only as a grudge\". On 23 March 1919 Mussolini re-formed the Milan \"fascio\" as the \"Fasci Italiani di Combattimento\" (Italian Combat Squad), consisting of 200 members.\n\nThe ideological basis for fascism came from a number of sources. Mussolini utilized works of Plato, Georges Sorel, Nietzsche, and the economic ideas of Vilfredo Pareto, to develop fascism. Mussolini admired Plato's \"The Republic\", which he often read for inspiration. \"The Republic\" expounded a number of ideas that fascism promoted, such as rule by an elite promoting the state as the ultimate end, opposition to democracy, protecting the class system and promoting class collaboration, rejection of egalitarianism, promoting the militarization of a nation by creating a class of warriors, demanding that citizens perform civic duties in the interest of the state, and utilizing state intervention in education to promote the development of warriors and future rulers of the state. \"The Republic\" differed from fascism in that it did not promote aggressive war, but only defensive war. Also unlike fascism, it promoted very communist-like views on property. Plato was an idealist, focused on achieving justice and morality, while Mussolini and fascism were realist, focused on achieving political goals.\n\nThe idea behind Mussolini's foreign policy was that of \"spazio vitale\" (vital space), a concept in Fascism that was analogous to \"Lebensraum\" in German National Socialism. The concept of \"spazio vitale\" was first announced in 1919, when the entire Mediterranean, especially so-called Julian March, was redefined to make it appear a unified region that had belonged to Italy from the times of the ancient Roman province of Italia, and was claimed as Italy's exclusive sphere of influence. The right to colonize the neighboring Slovene ethnic areas and the Mediterranean, being inhabited by what were alleged to be less developed peoples, was justified on the grounds that Italy was allegedly suffering from overpopulation.\n\nBorrowing the idea first developed by Enrico Corradini before 1914 of the natural conflict between \"plutocratic\" nations like Britain and \"proletarian\" nations like Italy, Mussolini claimed that Italy's principal problem was that \"plutocratic\" countries like Britain were blocking Italy from achieving the necessary \"spazio vitale\" that would let the Italian economy grow. Mussolini equated a nation's potential for economic growth with territorial size, thus in his view the problem of poverty in Italy could only be solved by winning the necessary \"spazio vitale\".\n\nThough biological racism was less prominent in Fascism than in National Socialism, right from the start the \"spazio vitale\" concept had a strong racist undercurrent. Mussolini asserted there was a \"natural law\" for stronger peoples to subject and dominate \"inferior\" peoples such as the \"barbaric\" Slavic peoples of Yugoslavia. He stated in a September 1920 speech: \n\nWhile Italy occupied former Austro-Hungarian areas between years 1918 and 1920, five hundred \"Slav\" societies (for example Sokol) and slightly smaller number of libraries (\"reading rooms\") had been forbidden, specifically so later with the Law on Associations (1925), the Law on Public Demonstrations (1926) and the Law on Public Order (1926) – the closure of the classical lyceum in Pazin, of the high school in Voloska (1918), and the five hundred Slovene and Croatian primary schools followed. One thousand \"Slav\" teachers were forcibly exiled to Sardinia and to Southern Italy.\n\nIn the same way, Mussolini argued that Italy was right to follow an imperialist policy in Africa because he saw all black people as \"inferior\" to whites. Mussolini claimed that the world was divided into a hierarchy of races (\"stirpe\", though this was justified more on cultural than on biological grounds), and that history was nothing more than a Darwinian struggle for power and territory between various \"racial masses\". Mussolini saw high birthrates in Africa and Asia as a threat to the \"white race\" and he often asked the rhetorical question \"Are the blacks and yellows at the door?\" to be followed up with \"Yes, they are!\". Mussolini believed that the United States was doomed as the American blacks had a higher birthrate than whites, making it inevitable that the blacks would take over the United States to drag it down to their level. The very fact that Italy was suffering from overpopulation was seen as proving the cultural and spiritual vitality of the Italians, who were thus justified in seeking to colonize lands that Mussolini argued – on a historical basis – belonged to Italy anyway, which was the heir to the Roman Empire. In Mussolini's thinking, demography was destiny; nations with rising populations were nations destined to conquer; and nations with falling populations were decaying powers that deserved to die. Hence, the importance of natalism to Mussolini, since only by increasing the birth rate could Italy ensure that its future as a great power that would win its \"spazio vitale\" would be assured. By Mussolini's reckoning, the Italian population had to reach 60 million to enable Italy to fight a major war—hence his relentless demands for Italian women to have more children in order to reach that number.\n\nMussolini and the fascists managed to be simultaneously revolutionary and traditionalist; because this was vastly different from anything else in the political climate of the time, it is sometimes described as \"The Third Way\". The Fascisti, led by one of Mussolini's close confidants, Dino Grandi, formed armed squads of war veterans called blackshirts (or \"squadristi\") with the goal of restoring order to the streets of Italy with a strong hand. The blackshirts clashed with communists, socialists, and anarchists at parades and demonstrations; all of these factions were also involved in clashes against each other. The Italian government rarely interfered with the blackshirts' actions, owing in part to a looming threat and widespread fear of a communist revolution. The Fascisti grew rapidly; within two years they transformed themselves into the National Fascist Party at a congress in Rome. In 1921, Mussolini won election to the Chamber of Deputies for the first time. In the meantime, from about 1911 until 1938, Mussolini had various affairs with the Jewish author and academic Margherita Sarfatti, called the \"Jewish Mother of Fascism\" at the time.\n\nIn the night between 27 and 28 October 1922, about 30,000 Fascist blackshirts gathered in Rome to demand the resignation of liberal Prime Minister Luigi Facta and the appointment of a new Fascist government. On the morning of 28 October, King Victor Emmanuel III, who according to the Albertine Statute held the supreme military power, refused the government request to declare martial law, which led to Facta's resignation. The King then handed over power to Mussolini (who stayed in his headquarters in Milan during the talks) by asking him to form a new government. The King's controversial decision has been explained by historians as a combination of delusions and fears; Mussolini enjoyed wide support in the military and among the industrial and agrarian elites, while the King and the conservative establishment were afraid of a possible civil war and ultimately thought they could use Mussolini to restore law and order in the country, but failed to foresee the danger of a totalitarian evolution.\n\nAs Prime Minister, the first years of Mussolini's rule were characterized by a right-wing coalition government composed of Fascists, nationalists, liberals, and two Catholic clerics from the Popular Party. The Fascists made up a small minority in his original governments. Mussolini's domestic goal was the eventual establishment of a totalitarian state with himself as supreme leader (\"Il Duce\"), a message that was articulated by the Fascist newspaper \"Il Popolo\", which was now edited by Mussolini's brother, Arnaldo. To that end, Mussolini obtained from the legislature dictatorial powers for one year (legal under the Italian constitution of the time). He favored the complete restoration of state authority, with the integration of the \"Fasci di Combattimento\" into the armed forces (the foundation in January 1923 of the \"Milizia Volontaria per la Sicurezza Nazionale\") and the progressive identification of the party with the state. In political and social economy, he passed legislation that favored the wealthy industrial and agrarian classes (privatizations, liberalizations of rent laws and dismantlement of the unions).\n\nIn 1923, Mussolini sent Italian forces to invade Corfu during the Corfu incident. In the end, the League of Nations proved powerless, and Greece was forced to comply with Italian demands. Writing of Mussolini's foreign policy, the American historian Gerhard Weinberg said: If the new regime Benito Mussolini installed in 1922 on the ruins of the old glorified war as a sign of vitality and repudiated pacifism as a form of decay, the lesson drawn from the terrible battles against Austria on the Isonzo river—in which the Italians fought far better than popular imagination often allows—was that the tremendous material and technical preparations needed for modern war were simply beyond the contemporary capacity of the country. This was almost certainly a correct perception, but, given the ideology of Fascism with its emphasis on the moral benefits of war, it did not lead to the conclusion that an Italy without a big stick had best speak very, very softly. On the contrary, the new regime drew the opposite conclusion. Noisy eloquence and rabid journalism might be substituted for serious preparations for war, a procedure that was harmless enough if no one took any of it seriously, but a certain road to disaster once some outside and Mussolini inside the country came to believe that the \"eight million bayonets\" of the Duce's imagination actually existed.\n\nIn June 1923, the government passed the Acerbo Law, which transformed Italy into a single national constituency. It also granted a two-thirds majority of the seats in Parliament to the party or group of parties that received at least 25% of the votes. This law applied in the elections of 6 April 1924. The \"national alliance\", consisting of Fascists, most of the old Liberals and others, won 64% of the vote.\n\nThe assassination of the socialist deputy Giacomo Matteotti, who had requested that the elections be annulled because of the irregularities, provoked a momentary crisis in the Mussolini government. Mussolini ordered a cover-up, but witnesses saw the car that transported Matteotti's body parked outside Matteotti's residence, which linked Amerigo Dumini to the murder.\n\nMussolini later confessed that a few resolute men could have altered public opinion and started a coup that would have swept fascism away. Dumini was imprisoned for two years. On his release, Dumini allegedly told other people that Mussolini was responsible, for which he served further prison time.\n\nThe opposition parties responded weakly or were generally unresponsive. Many of the socialists, liberals, and moderates boycotted Parliament in the Aventine Secession, hoping to force Victor Emmanuel to dismiss Mussolini.\n\nOn 31 December 1924, MVSN consuls met with Mussolini and gave him an ultimatum: crush the opposition or they would do so without him. Fearing a revolt by his own militants, Mussolini decided to drop all pretense of democracy. On 3 January 1925, Mussolini made a truculent speech before the Chamber in which he took responsibility for squadristi violence (though he did not mention the assassination of Matteotti). He did not abolish the squadristi until 1927, however.\n\nGerman-American historian Konrad Jarausch has argued that Mussolini was responsible for an integrated suite of political innovations that made fascism a powerful force in Europe. First, he went beyond the vague promise of future national renewal, and proved the movement could actually seize power and operate a comprehensive government in a major country along fascist lines. Second, the movement claimed to represent the entire national community, not a fragment such as the working class or the aristocracy. He made a significant effort to include the previously alienated Catholic element. He defined public roles for the main sectors of the business community rather than allowing it to operate backstage. Third, he developed a cult of one-man leadership that focused media attention and national debate on his own personality. As a former journalist, Mussolini proved highly adept at exploiting all forms of mass media, including such new forms as motion pictures and radio. Fourth, he created a mass membership party, with free programs for young men, young women, and various other groups who could therefore be more readily mobilized and monitored. He shut down all alternative political formations and parties (but this step was not an innovation by any means). Like all dictators he made liberal use of the threat of extrajudicial violence, as well as actual violence by his Blackshirts, to frighten his opposition.\n\nBetween 1925 and 1927, Mussolini progressively dismantled virtually all constitutional and conventional restraints on his power and built a police state. A law passed on 24 December 1925 – Christmas Eve for the largely Roman Catholic country – changed Mussolini's formal title from \"President of the Council of Ministers\" to \"Head of the Government\", although he was still called \"Prime Minister\" by most non-Italian news sources. He was no longer responsible to Parliament and could be removed only by the King. While the Italian constitution stated that ministers were responsible only to the sovereign, in practice it had become all but impossible to govern against the express will of Parliament. The Christmas Eve law ended this practice, and also made Mussolini the only person competent to determine the body's agenda. This law transformed Mussolini's government into a de facto legal dictatorship. Local autonomy was abolished, and podestàs appointed by the Italian Senate replaced elected mayors and councils.\n\nOn 7 April 1926, Mussolini survived a first assassination attempt by Violet Gibson, an Irish woman and daughter of Lord Ashbourne, who was deported after her arrest. On 31 October 1926, 15-year-old Anteo Zamboni attempted to shoot Mussolini in Bologna. Zamboni was lynched on the spot. Mussolini also survived a failed assassination attempt in Rome by anarchist Gino Lucetti, and a planned attempt by the Italian anarchist Michele Schirru, which ended with Schirru's capture and execution.\n\nAll other parties were outlawed following Zamboni's assassination attempt in 1926, though in practice Italy had been a one-party state since 1925 (with either his January speech to the Chamber or the passage of the Christmas Eve law, depending on the source). In the same year, an electoral law abolished parliamentary elections. Instead, the Grand Council of Fascism selected a single list of candidates to be approved by plebiscite. The Grand Council had been created five years earlier as a party body but was \"constitutionalized\" and became the highest constitutional authority in the state. On paper, the Grand Council had the power to recommend Mussolini's removal from office, and was thus theoretically the only check on his power. However, only Mussolini could summon the Grand Council and determine its agenda. To gain control of the South, especially Sicily, he appointed Cesare Mori as a Prefect of the city of Palermo, with the charge of eradicating the Mafia at any price. In the telegram, Mussolini wrote to Mori:Your Excellency has carte blanche; the authority of the State must absolutely, I repeat absolutely, be re-established in Sicily. If the laws still in force hinder you, this will be no problem, as we will draw up new laws.Mori did not hesitate to lay siege to towns, using torture, and holding women and children as hostages to oblige suspects to give themselves up. These harsh methods earned him the nickname of \"Iron Prefect\". In 1927, Mori's inquiries brought evidence of collusion between the Mafia and the Fascist establishment, and he was dismissed for length of service in 1929, at which time the number of murders in Palermo Province had decreased from 200 to 23. Mussolini nominated Mori as a senator, and fascist propaganda claimed that the Mafia had been defeated.\n\nIn 1919, the Italian state had brought in a series of liberal reforms in Libya that allowed education in Arabic and Berber and allowed for the possibility that the Libyans might become Italian citizens. Giuseppe Volpi, who had been appointed governor in 1921 was retained by Mussolini, and withdrew all of the measures offering equality to the Libyans. A policy of confiscating land from the Libyans to hand over to Italian colonists gave new vigor to Libyan resistance led by Omar Mukhtar, and during the ensuing \"Pacification of Libya\", the Fascist regime waged a near-genocidal campaign designed to kill as many Libyans as possible. Well over half the population of Cyrenaica were confined to 15 concentration camps by 1931 while the Royal Italian Air Force staged chemical warfare attacks against the Bedouin. On 20 June 1930, Marshal Pietro Badoglio wrote to General Rodolfo Graziani: As for overall strategy, it is necessary to create a significant and clear separation between the controlled population and the rebel formations. I do not hide the significance and seriousness of this measure, which might be the ruin of the subdued population ... But now the course has been set, and we must carry it out to the end, even if the entire population of Cyrenaica must perish. On 3 January 1933, Mussolini told the diplomat Baron Pompei Aloisi that the French in Tunisia had made an \"appalling blunder\" by permitting sex between the French and the Tunisians, which he predicted would lead to the French degenerating into a nation of \"half-castes\", and to prevent the same thing happening to the Italians gave orders to Marshal Badoglio that miscegenation be made a crime in Libya.\n\nMussolini launched several public construction programs and government initiatives throughout Italy to combat economic setbacks or unemployment levels. His earliest (and one of the best known) was the \"Battle for Wheat\", by which 5,000 new farms were established and five new agricultural towns (among them Littoria and Sabaudia) on land reclaimed by draining the Pontine Marshes. In Sardinia, a model agricultural town was founded and named \"Mussolinia\", but has long since been renamed Arborea. This town was the first of what Mussolini hoped would have been thousands of new agricultural settlements across the country. The Battle for Wheat diverted valuable resources to wheat production away from other more economically viable crops. Landowners grew wheat on unsuitable soil using all the advances of modern science, and although the wheat harvest increased, prices rose, consumption fell and high tariffs were imposed. The tariffs promoted widespread inefficiencies and the government subsidies given to farmers pushed the country further into debt.\n\nMussolini also initiated the \"Battle for Land\", a policy based on land reclamation outlined in 1928. The initiative had a mixed success; while projects such as the draining of the Pontine Marsh in 1935 for agriculture were good for propaganda purposes, provided work for the unemployed and allowed for great land owners to control subsidies, other areas in the Battle for Land were not very successful. This program was inconsistent with the Battle for Wheat (small plots of land were inappropriately allocated for large-scale wheat production), and the Pontine Marsh was lost during World War II. Fewer than 10,000 peasants resettled on the redistributed land, and peasant poverty remained high. The Battle for Land initiative was abandoned in 1940.\n\nIn 1930, in the Doctrine of Fascism he wrote, \"The so-called crisis can only be settled by State action and within the orbit of the State.\" He tried to combat economic recession by introducing a \"Gold for the Fatherland\" initiative, encouraging the public to voluntarily donate gold jewelry to government officials in exchange for steel wristbands bearing the words \"Gold for the Fatherland\". Even Rachele Mussolini donated her wedding ring. The collected gold was melted down and turned into gold bars, which were then distributed to the national banks.\n\nGovernment control of business was part of Mussolini's policy planning. By 1935, he claimed that three-quarters of Italian businesses were under state control. Later that year, Mussolini issued several edicts to further control the economy, e.g. forcing banks, businesses, and private citizens to surrender all foreign-issued stock and bond holdings to the Bank of Italy. In 1936, he imposed price controls. He also attempted to turn Italy into a self-sufficient autarky, instituting high barriers on trade with most countries except Germany.\n\nIn 1943, Mussolini proposed the theory of economic socialization.\n\nMussolini's foremost priority was the subjugation of the minds of the Italian people through the use of propaganda. The regime promoted a lavish cult of personality centered on the figure of Mussolini. He pretended to incarnate the new fascist Übermensch, promoting an aesthetic of exasperated Machism that attributed to him quasi-divine capacities. At various times after 1922, Mussolini personally took over the ministries of the interior, foreign affairs, colonies, corporations, defense, and public works. Sometimes he held as many as seven departments simultaneously, as well as the premiership. He was also head of the all-powerful Fascist Party and the armed local fascist militia, the MVSN or \"Blackshirts\", who terrorized incipient resistance in the cities and provinces. He would later form the OVRA, an institutionalized secret police that carried official state support. In this way he succeeded in keeping power in his own hands and preventing the emergence of any rival.\n\nMussolini also portrayed himself as a valiant sportsman and a skilled musician. All teachers in schools and universities had to swear an oath to defend the fascist regime. Newspaper editors were all personally chosen by Mussolini, and only those in possession of a certificate of approval from the Fascist Party could practice journalism. These certificates were issued in secret; Mussolini thus skillfully created the illusion of a \"free press\". The trade unions were also deprived of any independence and were integrated into what was called the \"corporative\" system. The aim, inspired by medieval guilds and never completely achieved, was to place all Italians in various professional organizations or \"corporations\", all under clandestine governmental control.\n\nLarge sums of money were spent on highly visible public works and on international prestige projects. Thes included as the Blue Riband ocean liner SS \"Rex\"; setting aeronautical records with the world's fastest seaplane, the Macchi M.C.72; and the transatlantic flying boat cruise of Italo Balbo, which was greeted with much fanfare in the United States when it landed in Chicago in 1933.\n\nThe principles of the doctrine of Fascism were laid down in an article by eminent philosopher Giovanni Gentile and Mussolini himself that appeared in 1932 in the \"Enciclopedia Italiana\". Mussolini always portrayed himself as an intellectual, and some historians agree. Gunther called him \"easily the best educated and most sophisticated of the dictators\", and the only national leader of 1940 who was an intellectual. German historian Ernst Nolte said that \"His command of contemporary philosophy and political literature was at least as great as that of any other contemporary European political leader.\"\n\nNationalists in the years after World War I thought of themselves as combating the liberal and domineering institutions created by cabinets—such as those of Giovanni Giolitti, including traditional schooling. Futurism, a revolutionary cultural movement which would serve as a catalyst for Fascism, argued for \"a school for physical courage and patriotism\", as expressed by Filippo Tommaso Marinetti in 1919. Marinetti expressed his disdain for \"the by now prehistoric and troglodyte Ancient Greek and Latin courses\", arguing for their replacement with exercise modelled on those of the Arditi soldiers (\"[learning] to advance on hands and knees in front of razing machine gun fire; to wait open-eyed for a crossbeam to move sideways over their heads etc.\"). It was in those years that the first Fascist youth wings were formed: Avanguardia Giovanile Fascista (Fascist Youth Vanguards) in 1919, and \"Gruppi Universitari Fascisti\" (Fascist University Groups) in 1922.\n\nAfter the March on Rome that brought Mussolini to power, the Fascists started considering ways to politicize Italian society, with an accent on education. Mussolini assigned former ardito and deputy-secretary for Education Renato Ricci the task of \"reorganizing the youth from a moral and physical point of view.\" Ricci sought inspiration with Robert Baden-Powell, the founder of Scouting, meeting with him in England, as well as with Bauhaus artists in Germany. The Opera Nazionale Balilla was created through Mussolini's decree of 3 April 1926, and was led by Ricci for the following eleven years. It included children between the ages of 8 and 18, grouped as the Balilla and the Avanguardisti.\n\nAccording to Mussolini: \"Fascist education is moral, physical, social, and military: it aims to create a complete and harmoniously developed human, a fascist one according to our views\". Mussolini structured this process taking in view the emotional side of childhood: \"Childhood and adolescence alike ... cannot be fed solely by concerts, theories, and abstract teaching. The truth we aim to teach them should appeal foremost to their fantasy, to their hearts, and only then to their minds\".\n\nThe \"educational value set through action and example\" was to replace the established approaches. Fascism opposed its version of idealism to prevalent rationalism, and used the Opera Nazionale Balilla to circumvent educational tradition by imposing the collective and hierarchy, as well as Mussolini's own personality cult.\n\nAnother important constituent of the Fascist cultural policy was Roman Catholicism. In 1929, a concordat with the Vatican was signed, ending decades of struggle between the Italian state and the Papacy that dated back to the 1870 takeover of the Papal States by the House of Savoy during the unification of Italy. The Lateran treaties, by which the Italian state was at last recognized by the Roman Catholic Church, and the independence of Vatican City was recognized by the Italian state, were so much appreciated by the ecclesiastic hierarchy that Pope Pius XI acclaimed Mussolini as \"the Man of Providence\".\n\nThe 1929 treaty included a legal provision whereby the Italian government would protect the honor and dignity of the Pope by prosecuting offenders. In 1927, Mussolini was re-baptized by a Roman Catholic priest. After 1929, Mussolini, with his anti-Communist doctrines, convinced many Catholics to actively support him.\n\nIn foreign policy, Mussolini was pragmatic and opportunistic. At the center of his vision lay the dream to forge a new Roman Empire in Africa and the Balkans, vindicating the so-called \"mutilated victory\" of 1918 imposed by the \"plutodemocracies\" (Britain and France) that betrayed the Treaty of London and usurped the supposed \"natural right\" of Italy to achieve supremacy in the Mediterranean basin. However, in the 1920s, given Germany's weakness, post-war reconstruction problems and the question of reparations, the situation of Europe was too unfavorable to advocate an openly revisionist approach to the Treaty of Versailles. In the 1920s, Italy's foreign policy was based on the traditional idea of Italy maintaining \"equidistant\" stance from all the major powers in order to exercise \"determinant weight\", which by whatever power Italy chose to align with would decisively change the balance of power in Europe, and the price of such an alignment would be support for Italian ambitions in Europe and Africa. In the meantime, since for Mussolini demography was destiny, he carried out relentless natalist policies designed to increase the birthrate; for example, in 1924 making advocating or giving information about contraception a criminal offense, and in 1926 ordering every Italian woman to double the number of children that they were willing to bear. For Mussolini, Italy's current population of 40 million was insufficient to fight a major war, and he needed to increase the population to at least 60 million Italians before he would be ready for war.\n\nIn his early years in power, Mussolini operated as a pragmatic statesman, trying to achieve some advantages, but never at the risk of war with Britain and France. An exception was the bombardment and occupation of Corfu in 1923, following an incident in which Italian military personnel charged by the League of Nations to settle a boundary dispute between Greece and Albania were assassinated by bandits; the nationality of the bandits remains unclear. At the time of the Corfu incident, Mussolini was prepared to go to war with Britain, and only desperate pleading by the Italian Navy leadership, who argued that the Italian Navy was no match for the British Royal Navy, persuaded Mussolini to accept a diplomatic solution. In a secret speech to the Italian military leadership in January 1925, Mussolini argued that Italy needed to win \"spazio vitale\", and as such his ultimate goal was to join \"the two shores of the Mediterranean and of the Indian Ocean into a single Italian territory\". Reflecting his obsession with demography, Mussolini went on to say that Italy did not at the present possess sufficient manpower to win a war against Britain or France, and that the time for war would come sometime in the mid-1930s, when Mussolini calculated the high Italian birth rate would finally give Italy the necessary numbers to win. Subsequently, Mussolini took part in the Locarno Treaties of 1925, that guaranteed the western borders of Germany as drawn in 1919. In 1929, Mussolini ordered his Army General Staff to begin planning for aggression against France and Yugoslavia. In July 1932, Mussolini sent a message to German Defense Minister General Kurt von Schleicher, suggesting an anti-French Italo-German alliance, an offer Schleicher responded to favorably, albeit with the condition that Germany needed to rearm first. In late 1932–early 1933, Mussolini planned to launch a surprise attack against both France and Yugoslavia that was to begin in August 1933. Mussolini's planned war of 1933 was only stopped when he learned that the French \"Deuxième Bureau\" had broken the Italian military codes, and that the French, being forewarned of all the Italian plans, were well prepared for the Italian attack.\n\nAfter Adolf Hitler came into power, threatening Italian interests in Austria and the Danube basin, Mussolini proposed the Four Power Pact with Britain, France and Germany in 1933. When the Austrian 'austro-fascist' Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss with dictatorial power was assassinated on 25 July 1934 by National-Socialist supporters, Mussolini even threatened Germany with war in the event of a German invasion of Austria. Mussolini for a period of time continued strictly opposing any German attempt to obtain Anschluss and promoted the ephemeral Stresa Front against Germany in 1935.\n\nDespite Mussolini's imprisonment for opposing the Italo-Turkish War in Africa as \"nationalist delirium tremens\" and \"a miserable war of conquest\", after the Abyssinia Crisis of 1935–1936, in the Second Italo–Ethiopian War Italy invaded Ethiopia following border incidents occasioned by Italian inclusions over the vaguely drawn border between Ethiopia and Italian Somaliland. Historians are still divided about the reasons for the attack on Ethiopia in 1935. Some Italian historians such as Franco Catalano and Giorgio Rochat argue that the invasion was an act of social imperialism, contending that the Great Depression had badly damaged Mussolini's prestige, and that he needed a foreign war to distract public opinion. Other historians such as Pietro Pastorelli have argued that the invasion was launched as part of an expansionist program to make Italy the main power in the Red Sea area and the Middle East. A middle way interpretation was offered by the American historian MacGregor Knox, who argued that the war was started for both foreign and domestic reasons, being both a part of Mussolini's long-range expansionist plans and intended to give Mussolini a foreign policy triumph that would allow him to push the Fascist system in a more radical direction at home. Italy's forces were far superior to the Abyssinian forces, especially in air power, and they were soon victorious. Emperor Haile Selassie was forced to flee the country, with Italy entering the capital city, Addis Ababa to proclaim an empire by May 1936, making Ethiopia part of Italian East Africa.\n\nConfident of having been given free hand by French Premier Pierre Laval, and certain that the British and French would be forgiving because of his opposition to Hitler's revisionism within the Stresa front, Mussolini received with disdain the League of Nations' economic sanctions imposed on Italy by initiative of London and Paris. In Mussolini's view, the move was a typically hypocritical action carried out by decaying imperial powers that intended to prevent the natural expansion of younger and poorer nations like Italy. In fact, although France and Britain had already colonized parts of Africa, the Scramble for Africa had finished by the beginning of the twentieth century. The international mood was now against colonialist expansion and Italy's actions were condemned. Furthermore, Italy was criticized for its use of mustard gas and phosgene against its enemies and also for its zero tolerance approach to enemy guerrillas, authorized by Mussolini. Between 1936 and 1941 during operations to \"pacify\" Ethiopia, the Italians killed hundreds of thousands of Ethiopian civilians, and are estimated to have killed about 7% of Ethiopia's total population. Mussolini ordered Marshal Rodolfo Graziani \"to initiate and systematically conduct a policy of terror and extermination against the rebels and the population in complicity with them. Without a policy of ten eyes to one, we cannot heal this wound in good time\". Mussolini personally ordered Graziani to execute the entire male population over the age of 18 in one town and in one district ordered that \"the prisoners, their accomplices and the uncertain will have to be executed\" as part of the \"gradual liquidation\" of the population. Believing the Eastern Orthodox Church was inspiring Ethiopians to resist, Mussolini ordered that Orthodox priests and monks were to be targeted in revenge for guerrilla attacks. Mussolini brought in Degree Law 880, which made miscegenation a crime punishable with five years in prison as Mussolini made it absolutely clear that he did not want his soldiers and officials serving in Ethiopia to ever have sex with Ethiopian women under any circumstances as he believed that multiracial relationships made his men less likely to kill Ethiopians. Mussolini favored a policy of brutality partly because he believed the Ethiopians were not a nation because black people were too stupid to have a sense of nationality and therefore the guerrillas were just \"bandits\". The other reason was because Mussolini was planning on bringing millions of Italian colonists into Ethiopia and he needed to kill off much of the Ethiopian population to make room for the Italian colonists just as he had done in Libya.\n\nThe sanctions against Italy were used by Mussolini as a pretext for an alliance with Germany. In January 1936, Mussolini told the German Ambassador Ulrich von Hassell that: \"If Austria were in practice to become a German satellite, he would have no objection\". By recognizing Austria was within the German sphere of influence, Mussolini had removed the principal problem in Italo-German relations. The American historian Barry Sullivan wrote about the Hitler-Mussolini relationship: \n\nOn 11 July 1936, an Austro-German treaty was signed under which Austria declared itself to be a \"German state\" whose foreign policy would always be aligned with Berlin, and allowed for pro-Nazis to enter the Austrian cabinet. Mussolini had applied strong pressure on the Austrian Chancellor Kurt Schuschnigg to sign the treaty in order to improve his relations with Hitler. After the sanctions against Italy ended in July 1936, the French tried hard to revive the Stresa Front, displaying what Sullivan called \"an almost humiliating determination to retain Italy as an ally\". In January 1937, Britain signed a \"Gentleman's Agreement\" with Mussolini intended to limit Italian intervention in Spain, and was seen by the British Foreign Office as the first step towards creating an Anglo-Italian alliance. In April 1938, Britain and Italy signed the Easter Accords under which Britain promised to recognise Ethiopia as Italian in exchange for Italy pulling out of the Spanish Civil War. The Foreign Office understood that it was the Spanish Civil War that was pulling Rome and Berlin closer together, and believed if Mussolini could be persuaded to disengage from Spain, then he would return to the Allied camp. To get Mussolini out of Spain, the British were prepared to pay such prices such as recognising King Victor Emmanuel III as Emperor of Ethiopia. The American historian Barry Sullivan wrote that both the British and the French very much wanted a rapprochment with Italy to undo the damage caused by the League of Nations sanctions, and that \"Mussolini chose to ally with Hitler, rather than being forced…\"\n\nReflecting the new pro-German foreign policy on 25 October 1936, Mussolini agreed to form a Rome-Berlin Axis, sanctioned by a cooperation agreement with Nazi Germany and signed in Berlin. Furthermore, the conquest of Ethiopia cost the lives of 12,000 Italians and another 4,000 to 5,000 Libyans, Eritreans, and Somalis fighting in Italian service. Mussolini believed that conquering Ethiopia would cost 4 to 6 billion lire, but the true costs of the invasion proved to be 33.5 billion lire. The economic costs of the conquest proved to be a staggering blow to the Italian budget, and seriously retarded Italian efforts at military modernization as the money that Mussolini had earmarked for military modernization was instead spent in conquering Ethiopia, something that helped to drive Mussolini towards Germany. To help cover the huge debts run up during the Ethiopian war, Mussolini devalued the lire by 40% in October 1936. Furthermore, the costs of occupying Ethiopia was to cost the Italian treasury another 21.1 billion lire between 1936–1940. Additionally, Italy was to lose 4,000 men killed fighting in the Spanish Civil War (a number adjusted to Italy's population was proportionally twice the American losses in Vietnam) while Italian intervention in Spain cost Italy another 12 to 14 billion lire. In the years 1938 and 1939, the Italian government took in 39.9 billion lire in taxes while the entire Italian gross national product was 153 billion lire, which meant the Ethiopian and Spanish wars imposed economically crippling costs on Italy. Only 28% of the entire military Italian budgets between 1934–39 was spent on military modernization with the rest all being consumed by Mussolini's wars, which led to a rapid decline in Italian military power. By contrast, reflecting the far larger size of the German economy, the total Italian military expenditure in 1936 was equal to only 27% of the total German military expenditure for 1936. The much greater size of the German economy allowed Hitler to both modernize the Wehrmacht and intervene in the Spanish Civil War at the same time, an option that Mussolini did not have. Between 1935–39, Mussolini's wars cost Italy the equivalent of $500 US billion dollars in 1999 values, a sum that was even proportionally a larger burden given that Italy was such a poor country. The 1930s were a time of rapid advances in military technology, and Sullivan wrote that Mussolini picked exactly the wrong time to fight his wars in Ethiopia and Spain. At the same time that the Italian military was falling behind the other great powers, a full scale arms race had broken out, with Germany, Britain and France spending increasingly large sums of money on their militaries as the 1930s advanced, a situation that Mussolini privately admitted seriously limited Italy's ability to fight a major war on its own, and thus required a great power ally to compensate for increasing Italian military backwardness.\n\nFrom 1936 through 1939, Mussolini provided huge amounts of military support to the Nationalists in the Spanish Civil War. This active intervention on the side of Franco further distanced Italy from France and Britain. As a result, Mussolini's relationship with Adolf Hitler became closer, and he chose to accept the German annexation of Austria in 1938, followed by the dismemberment of Czechoslovakia in 1939. In May 1938, during Hitler's visit to Italy, Mussolini told the \"Führer\" that Italy and France were deadly enemies fighting on \"opposite sides of the barricade\" concerning the Spanish Civil War, and the Stresa Front was \"dead and buried\". At the Munich Conference in September 1938, Mussolini continued to pose as a moderate working for European peace, while helping Nazi Germany annex the Sudetenland. The 1936 Axis agreement with Germany was strengthened by signing the Pact of Steel on 22 May 1939, that bound together Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany in a full military alliance.\n\nMembers of TIGR, a Slovene anti-fascist group, plotted to kill Mussolini in Kobarid in 1938, but their attempt was unsuccessful.\n\nBy the late 1930s, Mussolini's obsession with demography led him to conclude that Britain and France were finished as powers, and that it was Germany and Italy who were destined to rule Europe if for no other reason than their demographic strength. Mussolini stated his belief that declining birth rates in France were \"absolutely horrifying\" and that the British Empire was doomed because one-quarter of the British population was over 50. As such, Mussolini believed that an alliance with Germany was preferable to an alignment with Britain and France as it was better to be allied with the strong instead of the weak. Mussolini saw international relations as a Social Darwinian struggle between \"virile\" nations with high birth rates that were destined to destroy \"effete\" nations with low birth rates. Mussolini believed that France was a \"weak and old\" nation as the French weekly death rate exceeded the birthrate by 2,000, and he had no interest in an alliance with France.\n\nSuch was the extent of Mussolini's belief that it was Italy's \"destino\" to rule the Mediterranean because of Italy's high birth rate that he neglected much of the serious planning and preparations necessary for a war with the Western powers. The only arguments that held Mussolini back from full alignment with Berlin were his awareness of Italy's economic and military weakness, meaning he required further time to rearm, and his desire to use the Easter Accords of April 1938 as a way of splitting Britain from France. A military alliance with Germany as opposed to the already existing looser political alliance with the \"Reich\" under the Anti-Comintern Pact (which had no military commitments) would end any chance of Britain implementing the Easter Accords. The Easter Accords in turn were intended by Mussolini to allow Italy to take on France alone by sufficiently improving Anglo-Italian relations that London would presumably remain neutral in the event of a Franco-Italian war (Mussolini had imperial designs on Tunisia, and had some support in that country ). In turn, the Easter Accords were intended by Britain to win Italy away from Germany.\n\nCount Galeazzo Ciano, Mussolini's son-in-law and Foreign Minister, summed up the dictator's foreign policy objectives regarding France in an entry of his diary dated 8 November 1938: Djibouti would have to be ruled in common with France; \"Tunisia, with a more or less similar regime; Corsica, Italian and never Frenchified and therefore under our direct control, the border at the river Var.\" As for Savoy, which was not \"historically or geographically Italian\", Mussolini claimed that he was not interested in it. On 30 November 1938, Mussolini invited the French ambassador André François-Poncet to attend the opening of the Italian Chamber of Deputies, during which the assembled deputies, at his cue, began to demonstrate loudly against France, shouting that Italy should annex \"Tunis, Nice, Corsica, Savoy!\", which was followed by the deputies marching into the street carrying signs demanding that France turn over Tunisia, Savoy, and Corsica to Italy. The French Premier Édouard Daladier promptly rejected the Italian demands for territorial concessions, and for much of the winter of 1938–39, France and Italy were on the verge of war.\n\nIn January 1939, the British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain visited Rome, during which visit Mussolini learned that though Britain very much wanted better relations with Italy, and was prepared to make concessions, it would not sever all ties with France for the sake of an improved Anglo-Italian relationship. With that, Mussolini grew more interested in the German offer of a military alliance, which had first been made in May 1938. In February 1939, Mussolini gave a speech before the Fascist Grand Council, during which he proclaimed his belief that a state's power is \"proportional to its maritime position\" and that Italy was a \"prisoner in the Mediterranean and the more populous and powerful Italy becomes, the more it will suffer from its imprisonment. The bars of this prison are Corsica, Tunisia, Malta, Cyprus: the sentinels of this prison are Gibraltar and Suez\".\n\nThe new course was not without its critics. On 21 March 1939 during a meeting of the Fascist Grand Council, Italo Balbo accused Mussolini of \"licking Hitler's boots\", blasted the Duce's pro-German foreign policy as leading Italy to disaster and noted that the \"opening to Britain\" still existed and it was not inevitable that Italy had to ally with Germany. Though many \"gerarchi\" like Balbo were not keen on closer relations with Berlin, Mussolini's control of the foreign-policy machinery meant this dissidence counted for little. Mussolini had a leading position within the Fascist Party, but he did not totally dominate it as Balbo's attack on Mussolini for \"licking Hitler's boots\" and his demand that the \"opening to Britain\" be pursued at the meeting of the Fascist Grand Council together with what the Greek historian Aristotle Kallis called Mussolini's \"relatively restrained\" response show – the Nazi Party had nothing equivalent to the Fascist Grand Council and it was inconceivable that one of Hitler's \"gauleiters\" would attack him in the same way that a \"gerarchi\" like Balbo criticized Mussolini. In April 1939, Mussolini ordered the Italian invasion of Albania. Italy defeated Albania within just five days, forcing king Zog to flee and setting up a period of Albania under Italy. Until May 1939, the Axis had not been entirely official, but during that month the Pact of Steel treaty was signed outlining the \"friendship and alliance\" between Germany and Italy, signed by each of its foreign ministers. The Pact of Steel was an offensive and defensive military alliance, though Mussolini had signed the treaty only after receiving a promise from the Germans that there would be no war for the next three years. Italy's King Victor Emanuel III was also wary of the pact, favoring the more traditional Italian allies like France, and fearful of the implications of an offensive military alliance, which in effect meant surrendering control over questions of war and peace to Hitler.\n\nHitler was intent on invading Poland, though Ciano warned this would likely lead to war with the Allies. Hitler dismissed Ciano's comment, predicting that instead that Britain and the other Western countries would back down, and he suggested that Italy should invade Yugoslavia. The offer was tempting to Mussolini, but at that stage a world war would be a disaster for Italy as the armaments situation from building the Italian Empire thus far was lean. Most significantly, Victor Emmanuel had demanded neutrality in the dispute. Thus when World War II in Europe began on 1 September 1939 with the German invasion of Poland eliciting the response of the United Kingdom and France declaring war on Germany, Italy did not become involved in the conflict. However, when the Germans incarcerated 183 professors from Jagiellonian University in Kraków on 6 November 1939, Mussolini personally intervened to Hitler against this action, leading to the freeing of 101 Poles.\n\nAs World War II began, Ciano and Viscount Halifax were holding secret phone conversations. The British wanted Italy on their side against Germany as it had been in World War I. French government opinion was more geared towards action against Italy, as they were eager to attack Italy in Libya. In September 1939, France swung to the opposite extreme, offering to discuss issues with Italy, but as the French were unwilling to discuss Corsica, Nice and Savoy, Mussolini did not answer. Historian Alexander Gibson stated that the Allies were certain that Italy would join the war on the Axis side, and tried to provoke Italy into fighting while she was still unprepared. In late November 1939, Adolf Hitler declared: \"So long as the Duce lives, one can rest assured that Italy will seize every opportunity to achieve its imperialistic aims.\"\n\nConvinced that the war would soon be over, with a German victory looking likely at that point, Mussolini decided to enter the war on the Axis side. Accordingly, Italy declared war on Britain and France on 10 June 1940. Mussolini regarded the war against Britain and France as a life-or-death struggle between opposing ideologies — Fascism and \"the Masonic, democratic, capitalist world\" – describing the war as \"the struggle of the fertile and young people against the sterile people moving to the sunset; it is the struggle between two centuries and two ideas\", and as a \"logical development of our Revolution\".\n\nItaly joined the Germans in the Battle of France, fighting the fortified Alpine Line at the border. Just eleven days later, France and Germany signed an armistice. Included in Italian-controlled France were most of Nice and other southeastern counties. Meanwhile, in Africa, Mussolini's Italian East Africa forces attacked the British in their Sudan, Kenya and British Somaliland colonies, in what would become known as the East African Campaign. British Somaliland was conquered and became part of Italian East Africa on 3 August 1940, and there were Italian advances in the Sudan and Kenya.\n\nIn September 1940, the Italian Tenth Army was commanded by General Rodolfo Graziani and crossed from Italian Libya into Egypt, where British forces were located; this would become the Western Desert Campaign. Advances were successful, but the Italians stopped at Sidi Barrani waiting for logistic supplies to catch up. On 24 October 1940, Mussolini sent the Italian Air Corps to Belgium, where it took part in the Blitz until January 1941. In October, Mussolini also sent Italian forces into Greece, starting the Greco-Italian War. After initial success, this backfired as the Greek counterattack proved relentless, resulting in Italy losing one-quarter of Albania.\n\nEvents in Africa had changed by early 1941 as Operation Compass had forced the Italians back into Libya, causing high losses in the Italian Army. Also in the East African Campaign, an attack was mounted against Italian forces. Despite putting up a resistance, they were overwhelmed at the Battle of Keren, and the Italian defense started to crumble with a final defeat in the Battle of Gondar. When addressing the Italian public on the events, Mussolini was completely open about the situation, saying \"We call bread bread and wine wine, and when the enemy wins a battle it is useless and ridiculous to seek, as the English do in their incomparable hypocrisy, to deny or diminish it.\" Part of his comment was in relation to earlier success the Italians had in Africa, before being defeated by an Allied force later. In danger of losing the control of all Italian possessions in North Africa, Germany finally sent the Afrika Korps to support Italy. Meanwhile, Operation Marita took place in Yugoslavia to end the Greco-Italian War, resulting in an Axis victory and the Occupation of Greece by Italy and Germany.\n\nGeneral Mario Robotti, Commander of the Italian 11th division in Slovenia and Croatia, issued an order in line with a directive received from Mussolini in June 1942: \"I would not be opposed to all (\"sic\") Slovenes being imprisoned and replaced by Italians. In other words, we should take steps to ensure that political and ethnic frontiers coincide\".\n\nMussolini first learned of Operation Barbarossa after the invasion of Soviet Union had begun on 22 June 1941, and was not asked by Hitler to involve himself. Mussolini took the initiative in ordering an Italian Army Corps to head to the Eastern Front, where he hoped that Italy might score an easy victory to restore the Fascist regime's luster, which had been damaged by defeats in Greece and North Africa. On 25 June 1941, He inspected the first units at Verona, which served as his launching pad to Russia. Mussolini told the Council of Ministers of 5 July that his only worry was that Germany might defeat the Soviet Union before the Italians arrived. At a meeting with Hitler in August, Mussolini offered and Hitler accepted the commitment of further Italian troops to fight the Soviet Union. The heavy losses suffered by the Italians on the Eastern Front, where service was extremely unpopular owing to the widespread view that this was not Italy's fight, did much to damage Mussolini's prestige with the Italian people. After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, he declared war on the United States on 11 December 1941. A piece of evidence regarding Mussolini's response to the attack on Pearl Harbor comes from the diary of his Foreign Minister Ciano:\n\nBy early 1942, Italy's military position had become untenable. After the defeat at El Alamein at the end of 1942, the Axis troops had to retreat to where they were finally defeated in the Tunisia Campaign in early 1943. Italy suffered major setbacks on the Eastern Front as well. The Allied invasion of Sicily brought the war to the nation's very doorstep. The Italian home front was also in bad shape as the Allied bombings were taking their toll. Factories all over Italy were brought to a virtual standstill because raw materials, such as coal and oil, were lacking. Additionally, there was a chronic shortage of food, and what food was available was being sold at nearly confiscatory prices. Mussolini's once-ubiquitous propaganda machine lost its grip on the people; a large number of Italians turned to Vatican Radio or Radio London for more accurate news coverage. Discontent came to a head in March 1943 with a wave of labor strikes in the industrial north—the first large-scale strikes since 1925. Also in March, some of the major factories in Milan and Turin stopped production to secure evacuation allowances for workers' families. The German presence in Italy had sharply turned public opinion against Mussolini; for example, when the Allies invaded Sicily, the majority of the public there welcomed them as liberators.\n\nEarlier in April 1943, Mussolini had begged Hitler to make a separate peace with Stalin and send German troops to the west to guard against an expected Allied invasion of Italy. Mussolini feared that with the losses in Tunisia and North Africa, the next logical step for Dwight Eisenhower's armies would be to come across the Mediterranean and attack the Italian peninsula. Within a few days of the Allied landings on Sicily in July 1943, it was obvious Mussolini's army was on the brink of collapse. This led Hitler to summon Mussolini to a meeting in Feltre on 19 July 1943. By this time, Mussolini was so shaken from stress that he could no longer stand Hitler's boasting. His mood darkened further when that same day, the Allies bombed Rome—the first time that city had ever been the target of enemy bombing.\n\nBy this point, some prominent members of Mussolini's government had turned against him. Among them were Grandi and Ciano. Several of his colleagues were close to revolt, and Mussolini was forced to summon the Grand Council on 24 July 1943. This was the first time that anybody had met since the start of the war. When he announced that the Germans were thinking of evacuating the south, Grandi launched a blistering attack on him. Grandi moved a resolution asking the king to resume his full constitutional powers–in effect, a vote of no confidence in Mussolini. This motion carried by a 19–8 margin. Despite this sharp rebuke, Mussolini showed up for work the next day as usual. He allegedly viewed the Grand Council as merely an advisory body and did not think the vote would have any substantive effect. That afternoon, he was summoned to the royal palace by King Victor Emmanuel III, who had been planning to oust Mussolini earlier. When Mussolini tried to tell the king about the meeting, Victor Emmanuel cut him off and told him that he was being replaced by Marshal Pietro Badoglio. After Mussolini left the palace, he was arrested by Carabinieri on the king's orders. By this time, discontent with Mussolini was so intense that when the news of his downfall was announced on the radio, there was no resistance of any sort. People rejoiced because they thought it meant the war was over.\n\nIn an effort to conceal his location from the Germans, Mussolini was moved around before being imprisoned at Campo Imperatore, a mountain resort in Abruzzo where he was completely isolated. Badoglio announced that the war would continue in alliance with Germany. Even as Badoglio was keeping up the appearance of loyalty to the Axis, he dissolved the Fascist Party two days after taking over and began negotiating an Armistice with the Allies, which was signed on 3 September 1943. Its announcement five days later threw Italy into chaos; German troops rushed in to take over Italy in Operation Achse. As the Germans approached Rome, Badoglio and the king fled Rome, leaving the Italian Army without orders. After a period of anarchy, Italy finally declared war on Nazi Germany on 13 October 1943 from Malta; thousands of troops were supplied to fight against the Germans, while others refused to switch sides and had joined the Germans. The Badoglio government held a political truce with the leftist partisans for the sake of Italy and to rid the land of the Nazis.\n\nOnly two months after Mussolini had been dismissed and arrested, he was rescued from his prison at the Hotel Campo Imperatore in the Gran Sasso raid on 12 September 1943 by a special Fallschirmjäger (paratroopers) unit and \"Waffen-SS\" commandos led by Major Otto-Harald Mors; Otto Skorzeny was also present. The rescue saved Mussolini from being turned over to the Allies, as per the armistice. Hitler had made plans to arrest the king, Crown Prince Umberto, Badoglio, and the rest of the government and restore Mussolini to power in Rome, but the government's escape south likely foiled those plans.\n\nThree days following his rescue in the Gran Sasso raid, Mussolini was taken to Germany for a meeting with Hitler in Rastenburg at his East Prussian headquarters. Despite public professions of support, Hitler was clearly shocked by Mussolini's disheveled and haggard appearance as well as his unwillingness to go after the men in Rome who overthrew him. Feeling that he had to do what he could to blunt the edges of Nazi repression, Mussolini agreed to set up a new regime, the Italian Social Republic (, RSI), informally known as the \"Salò Republic\" because of its administration from the town of Salò where he settled 11 days after his rescue by the Germans. Mussolini's new regime faced numerous territorial losses: in addition to losing the Italian lands held by the Allies and Badoglio's government, the provinces of Bolzano, Belluno and Trento were placed under German administration in the Operational Zone of the Alpine Foothills, while the provinces of Udine, Gorizia, Trieste, Pola (now Pula), Fiume (now Rijeka) and Ljubljana (Lubiana in Italian) were incorporated into the German Operational Zone of the Adriatic Littoral.\n\nIn addition, the German army occupied the Dalmatian provinces of Split (Spalato) and Kotor (Cattaro), which were subsequently annexed by the Croatian fascist regime. Italy's gains in Greece and Albania were also lost to Germany, with the exception of the Italian Aegean Islands, which remained nominally under RSI rule. Mussolini opposed any territorial reductions of the Italian state and told his associates:I am not here to renounce even a square meter of state territory. We will go back to war for this. And we will rebel against anyone for this. Where the Italian flag flew, the Italian flag will return. And where it has not been lowered, now that I am here, no one will have it lowered. I have said these things to the \"Führer\".\n\nFor about a year and a half, Mussolini lived in Gargnano on Lake Garda in Lombardy. Although he insisted in public that he was in full control, he knew that he was little more than a puppet ruler under the protection of his German liberators—for all intents and purposes, the \"Gauleiter\" of Lombardy. After yielding to pressures from Hitler and the remaining loyal fascists who formed the government of the Republic of Salò, Mussolini helped orchestrate a series of executions of some of the fascist leaders who had betrayed him at the last meeting of the Fascist Grand Council. One of those executed was his son-in-law, Galeazzo Ciano. As Head of State and Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Italian Social Republic, Mussolini used much of his time to write his memoirs. Along with his autobiographical writings of 1928, these writings would be combined and published by Da Capo Press as \"My Rise and Fall\". In an interview in January 1945 by Madeleine Mollier, a few months before he was captured and executed by Italian anti-fascist partisans, he stated flatly: \"Seven years ago, I was an interesting person. Now, I am little more than a corpse.\" He continued:\n\nOn 25 April 1945, allied troops were advancing into northern Italy, and the collapse of the Salò Republic was imminent. Mussolini and his mistress Clara Petacci set out for Switzerland, intending to board a plane and escape to Spain. Two days later on 27 April, they were stopped near the village of Dongo (Lake Como) by communist partisans Valerio and Bellini and identified by the Political Commissar of the partisans' 52nd \"Garibaldi\" Brigade, Urbano Lazzaro. During this time, Clara's brother posed as a Spanish consul. After several unsuccessful attempts to take them to Como they were brought to Mezzegra. They spent their last night in the house of the De Maria family.\n\nThe next day, Mussolini and Petacci were both summarily shot, along with most of the members of their 15-man train, primarily ministers and officials of the Italian Social Republic. The shootings took place in the small village of Giulino di Mezzegra and were conducted by a partisan leader who used the nom de guerre of Colonnello Valerio. His real identity is unknown, but conventionally he is thought to have been Walter Audisio, who always claimed to have carried out the execution, though another partisan controversially alleged that Colonnello Valerio was Luigi Longo, subsequently a leading communist politician in post-war Italy. Mussolini was killed two days before Hitler and his wife Eva Braun committed suicide.\n\nOn 29 April 1945, the bodies of Mussolini, Petacci and the other executed Fascists were loaded into a van and moved south to Milan. At 3:00 am, the corpses were dumped on the ground in the old Piazzale Loreto. The piazza had been renamed \"Piazza Quindici Martiri\" in honor of fifteen anti-Fascists recently executed there.\n\nAfter being kicked and spat upon, the bodies were hung upside down from the roof of an Esso gas station. The bodies were then stoned from below by civilians. This was done both to discourage any Fascists from continuing the fight, and as an act of revenge for the hanging of many partisans in the same place by Axis authorities. The corpse of the deposed leader was subject to ridicule and abuse. Fascist loyalist Achille Starace was captured and sentenced to death and then taken to the Piazzale Loreto and shown the body of Mussolini. Starace, who once said of Mussolini \"He is a god,\" saluted what was left of his leader just before he was shot. The body of Starace was subsequently hung up next to that of Mussolini.\n\nAfter his death and the display of his corpse in Milan, Mussolini was buried in an unmarked grave in the Musocco cemetery, to the north of the city. On Easter Sunday 1946, his body was located and dug up by Domenico Leccisi and two other neo-Fascists.\n\nOn the loose for months—and a cause of great anxiety to the new Italian democracy—Mussolini's body was finally \"recaptured\" in August, hidden in a small trunk at the Certosa di Pavia, just outside Milan. Two Fransciscan brothers were subsequently charged with concealing the corpse, though it was discovered on further investigation that it had been constantly on the move. Unsure what to do, the authorities held the remains in a kind of political limbo for ten years, before agreeing to allow them to be re-interred at Predappio in Romagna, his birthplace. Adone Zoli, the then-current prime minister, contacted Donna Rachele, the dictator's widow, to tell her he was returning the remains, as he needed the support of the far-right in parliament, including Leccisi himself. In Predappio the dictator was buried in a crypt (the only posthumous honor granted to Mussolini). His tomb is flanked by marble fasces, and a large idealized marble bust of him is above the tomb.\n\nMussolini's first wife was Ida Dalser, whom he married in Trento in 1914. The couple had a son the following year and named him Benito Albino Mussolini. In December 1915, Mussolini married Rachele Guidi, who had been his mistress since 1910. Due to his upcoming political ascendency, the information about his first marriage was suppressed, and both his first wife and son were later persecuted. With Rachele, Mussolini had two daughters, Edda (1910–1995) and Anna Maria (1929–1968), the latter of whom married in Ravenna on 11 June 1960 to Nando Pucci Negri; and three sons: Vittorio (1916–1997), Bruno (1918–1941) and Romano (1927–2006). Mussolini had several mistresses, among them Margherita Sarfatti and his final companion, Clara Petacci. Mussolini had many brief sexual encounters with female supporters, as reported by his biographer Nicholas Farrell.\n\nImprisonment likely caused Mussolini's claustrophobia. He refused to enter the Blue Grotto, and preferred large rooms like his office at the Palazzo Venezia.\n\nMussolini was raised by a devoutly Catholic mother and an anti-clerical father. His mother Rosa had him baptized into the Roman Catholic Church, and took her children to services every Sunday. His father never attended. Mussolini regarded his time at a religious boarding school as punishment, compared the experience to hell, and \"once refused to go to morning Mass and had to be dragged there by force.\"\n\nMussolini became anti-clerical like his father. As a young man, he \"proclaimed himself to be an atheist and several times tried to shock an audience by calling on God to strike him dead.\" He believed that science had proven there was no god, and that the historical Jesus was ignorant and mad. He considered religion a disease of the psyche, and accused Christianity of promoting resignation and cowardice. Mussolini was superstitious; after hearing of the curse of the Pharaohs, he ordered the immediate removal from the Palazzo Chigi of an Egyptian mummy he had accepted as a gift.\n\nMussolini was an admirer of Friedrich Nietzsche. According to Denis Mack Smith, \"In Nietzsche he found justification for his crusade against the Christian virtues of humility, resignation, charity, and goodness.\" He valued Nietzsche's concept of the superman, \"The supreme egoist who defied both God and the masses, who despised egalitarianism and democracy, who believed in the weakest going to the wall and pushing them if they did not go fast enough.\" On his 60th birthday, Mussolini received a gift from Hitler of a complete twenty-four volume set of the works of Nietzsche.\n\nMussolini made vitriolic attacks against Christianity and the Catholic Church, which he accompanied with provocative remarks about the consecrated host, and about a love affair between Christ and Mary Magdalene. He denounced socialists who were tolerant of religion, or who had their children baptized, and called for socialists who accepted religious marriage to be expelled from the party. He denounced the Catholic Church for \"its authoritarianism and refusal to allow freedom of thought ...\" Mussolini's newspaper, \"La Lotta di Classe\", reportedly had an anti-Christian editorial stance.\n\nDespite making such attacks, Mussolini tried to win popular support by appeasing the Catholic majority in Italy. In 1924, Mussolini saw that three of his children were given communion. In 1925, he had a priest perform a religious marriage ceremony for himself and his wife Rachele, whom he had married in a civil ceremony 10 years earlier. On 11 February 1929, he signed a concordat and treaty with the Roman Catholic Church. Under the Lateran Pact, Vatican City was granted independent statehood and placed under Church law—rather than Italian law—and the Catholic religion was recognized as Italy's state religion. The Church also regained authority over marriage, Catholicism could be taught in all secondary schools, birth control and freemasonry were banned, and the clergy received subsidies from the state and was exempted from taxation. Pope Pius XI praised Mussolini, and the official Catholic newspaper pronounced \"Italy has been given back to God and God to Italy.\"\n\nAfter this conciliation, he claimed the Church was subordinate to the State, and \"referred to Catholicism as, in origin, a minor sect that had spread beyond Palestine only because grafted onto the organization of the Roman empire.\" After the concordat, \"he confiscated more issues of Catholic newspapers in the next three months than in the previous seven years.\" Mussolini reportedly came close to being excommunicated from the Catholic Church around this time.\n\nMussolini publicly reconciled with the Pope Pius XI in 1932, but \"took care to exclude from the newspapers any photography of himself kneeling or showing deference to the Pope.\" He wanted to persuade Catholics that \"[f]ascism was Catholic and he himself a believer who spent some of each day in prayer ...\" The Pope began referring to Mussolini as \"a man sent by Providence.\" Despite Mussolini's efforts to appear pious, by order of his party, pronouns referring to him \"had to be capitalized like those referring to God ...\"\n\nIn 1938 Mussolini began reasserting his anti-clericalism. He would sometimes refer to himself as an \"outright disbeliever,\" and once told his cabinet that \"Islam was perhaps a more effective religion than Christianity\" and that the \"papacy was a malignant tumor in the body of Italy and must 'be rooted out once and for all', because there was no room in Rome for both the Pope and himself.\" He publicly backed down from these anti-clerical statements, but continued making similar statements in private.\n\nAfter his fall from power in 1943, Mussolini began speaking \"more about God and the obligations of conscience\", although \"he still had little use for the priests and sacraments of the Church\". He also began drawing parallels between himself and Jesus Christ. Mussolini's widow, Rachele, stated that her husband had remained \"basically irreligious until the later years of his life\". Mussolini was given a Catholic funeral in 1957.\n\nAlthough Mussolini had initially disregarded biological racism, he was a firm believer in national traits and made several generalizations about the Jews. Nevertheless, Mussolini considered Italian Jews to be Italians. Mussolini's antisemitic remarks in the late 1910s and early 1920s were more suited to the moment rather than a sincere belief in them. Mussolini blamed the Russian Revolution of 1917 on \"Jewish vengeance\" against Christianity with the remark \"Race does not betray race . . . Bolshevism is being defended by the international plutocracy. That is the real truth.\" Yet within a few weeks he did a u-turn with the remark \"Bolshevism is not, as people believe, a Jewish phenomenon. The truth is that Bolshevism is leading to the utter ruin of the Jews of Eastern Europe.\"\n\nIn the early 1920s, Mussolini stated that Fascism would never raise a \"Jewish Question\" and in an article he wrote he stated \"Italy knows no antisemitism and we believe that it will never know it.\" and then elaborated \"let us hope that Italian Jews will continue to be sensible enough so as not to give rise to antisemitism in the only country where it has never existed.\" In 1932, Mussolini during a conversation with Emil Ludwig described antisemitism as a \"German vice\" and stated that \"There was 'no Jewish Question' in Italy and could not be one in a country with a healthy system of government.\" On several occasions, Mussolini spoke positively about Jews and the Zionist movement, although Fascism remained suspicious of Zionism after the Fascist Party gained power. Until 1938 Mussolini had denied any antisemitism within the Fascist Party.\n\nThe relationship between Mussolini and Adolf Hitler was a contentious one early on. While Hitler cited Mussolini as an influence and privately expressed great admiration for him, Mussolini had little regard for Hitler, especially after the Nazis had assassinated his friend and ally, Engelbert Dollfuss, the Austrofascist dictator of Austria in 1934.\n\nWith the assassination of Dollfuss, Mussolini attempted to distance himself from Hitler by rejecting much of the racialism (particularly Nordicism and Germanicism) and antisemitism espoused by the German radical. Mussolini during this period rejected biological racism, at least in the Nazi sense, and instead emphasized \"Italianizing\" the parts of the Italian Empire he had desired to build. He declared that the ideas of eugenics and the racially charged concept of an Aryan nation were not possible. Mussolini dismissed the idea of a master race as \"arrant nonsense, stupid and idiotic.\"\n\nWhen discussing the Nazi decree that the German people must carry a passport with either Aryan or Jewish racial affiliation marked on it, in 1934, Mussolini wondered how they would designate membership in the \"Germanic race\":\nWhen German-Jewish journalist Emil Ludwig asked about his views on race in 1933, Mussolini exclaimed:\nIn a speech given in Bari in 1934, he reiterated his attitude towards the German ideology of Master race:\nThough Italian Fascism varied its official positions on race from the 1920s to 1934, ideologically Italian fascism did not originally discriminate against the Italian-Jewish community: Mussolini recognised that a small contingent had lived there \"since the days of the Kings of Rome\" and should \"remain undisturbed\". There were even some Jews in the National Fascist Party, such as Ettore Ovazza, who in 1935 founded the Jewish Fascist paper \"La Nostra Bandiera\" (\"Our Flag\").\n\nBy mid-1938, the enormous influence Hitler now had over Mussolini became clear with the introduction of the \"Manifesto of Race\". The Manifesto, which was closely modeled on the Nazi Nuremberg Laws, stripped Jews of their Italian citizenship and with it any position in the government or professions. The racial laws declared Italians to be part of the Aryan race and forbid sexual relations and marriages between Italians and those considered to be of an \"inferior race\", chiefly Jews and Africans. Jews were not permitted to own or manage companies involved in military production, or factories that employed over one hundred people or exceeded a certain value. They could not own land over a certain value, serve in the armed forces, employ non-Jewish domestics, or belong to the Fascist party. Their employment in banks, insurance companies, and public schools was forbidden.\n\nEven after the introduction of the racial laws, Mussolini continued to make contradictory statements about race. Many high government officials told Jewish representatives that the antisemitism in Fascist Italy would soon be over. Antisemitism was unpopular within the Fascist party; once when a Fascist scholar protested to Mussolini about the treatment of his Jewish friends, Mussolini is reported to have said \"I agree with you entirely. I don't believe a bit in the stupid anti-Semitic theory. I am carrying out my policy entirely for political reasons.\" Hitler felt disappointed with Mussolini's lack of antisemitism.\n\nMussolini and the Italian Army in occupied regions openly opposed German efforts to deport Italian Jews to Nazi concentration camps. Italy's refusal to comply with German demands of Jewish persecution influenced other countries.\n\nIn September 1943 semi-autonomous militarized squads of Fascist fanatics sprouted up throughout the Republic of Salò. These squads spread terror among Jews and anti-Fascists for a year and a half. In the power vacuum that existed during the first three or four months of the occupation, the semi-autonomous bands were virtually uncontrollable. Many were linked to individual high-ranking Fascist politicians. Italian Fascists, sometimes government employees but more often fanatic civilians or paramilitary volunteers, hastened to curry favor with the Nazis. Informers betrayed their neighbors, \"squadristi\" seized Jews and delivered them to the German SS, and Italian journalists seemed to compete in the virulence of their anti-Semitic diatribes.\n\nIt has been widely speculated that Mussolini adopted the Manifesto of Race in 1938 for merely tactical reasons, to strengthen Italy's relations with Germany. Mussolini and the Italian military did not consistently apply the laws adopted in the Manifesto of Race. In December 1943, Mussolini made a confession to journalist/politician Bruno Spampanato that seems to indicate that he regretted the Manifesto of Race:\nMussolini also reached out to the Muslims in his empire and in the predominantly Arab countries of the Middle East. In 1937, the Muslims of Libya presented Mussolini with the \"Sword of Islam\" while Fascist propaganda pronounced him as the \"Protector of Islam.\"\n\nMussolini was survived by his wife, Rachele Mussolini, two sons, Vittorio and Romano Mussolini, and his daughters Edda (the widow of Count Ciano) and Anna Maria. A third son, Bruno, was killed in an air accident while flying a Piaggio P.108 bomber on a test mission, on 7 August 1941. His oldest son, Benito Albino Mussolini, from his marriage with Ida Dalser, was ordered to stop declaring that Mussolini was his father and in 1935 forcibly committed to an asylum in Milan, where he was murdered on 26 August 1942 after repeated coma-inducing injections. Alessandra Mussolini, daughter of Romano Mussolini, Benito Mussolini's fourth son, and of Anna Maria Scicolone, Sophia Loren's sister, has been a member of the European Parliament for the far-right Social Alternative movement, a deputy in the Italian lower chamber and served in the Senate as a member of Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia party.\n\nAlthough the National Fascist Party was outlawed by the postwar Constitution of Italy, a number of successor neo-fascist parties emerged to carry on its legacy. Historically, the largest neo-fascist party was the Italian Social Movement (\"Movimento Sociale Italiano\"), which disbanded in 1995 and was replaced by National Alliance, a conservative party that distanced itself from Fascism (its founder, former foreign minister Gianfranco Fini, declared during an official visit to Israel that Fascism was \"an absolute evil\"). National Alliance and a number of neo-fascist parties were merged in 2009 to create the short-lived People of Freedom party led by then Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, which eventually disbanded after the defeat in the 2013 general election.\n\nOlaf Stapledon in his SF novel \"Last and First Men\" has a future historian give Mussolini's story, though without naming him. Written in 1930, it has Mussolini starting and losing a war with France and then being killed by an angry Italian mob. The book does not predict Hitler.\n\nIn his 1938 novel \"The Holy Terror\", H.G. Wells predicted Mussolini's execution:\n\nBenito Mussolini, with a surfeit of bad history decaying in his imagination, could not see the plain realities before him. Like most of his generation he dramatised human affairs in incurably geographical patches, and like most of the masterful men of his time his belief in his power to mould the life about him carried him beyond sanity. From the beginning his was an ill-balanced temperament; he would be blatant at one moment, and weeping at another. He beat at the knees of Mother Reality like an unteachable child. He wanted war and conquest, triumph over definable enemies, fierce alliances, and unforgettable antagonisms. He wanted glory. He died, as his last words testify, completely unaware of the fact that the rational treatment of human affairs does not admit of that bilaterality which the traditions of warfare require. \"Do we win?\" he said.\n\nHe persuaded himself and he persuaded great multitudes of people that two great systems of ideas faced each other in the world, \"Leftism\" and \"Rightism\", and that he and his associated Dictators embodied the latter. He did contrive finally to impose the illusion of a definitive World War upon great masses of people.\n\nCharlie Chaplin's 1940 film \"The Great Dictator\" satirizes Mussolini as \"Benzino Napaloni\", portrayed by Jack Oakie. In the Three Stooges' \"I'll Never Heil Again\", Cy Schindell plays \"Chizzolini\", from the then topical insult of \"chisler\".\n\nWilliam Saroyan wrote a short story about Mussolini in his 1971 book, \"Letters from 74 rue Taitbout or Don't Go But If You Must Say Hello To Everybody\".\n\nMore serious biographical depictions include Rod Steiger in Carlo Lizzani's 1974 movie \"Last Days of Mussolini\", and George C. Scott's portrayal in the 1985 television mini-series \"Mussolini: The Untold Story\".\n\nAnother 1985 movie was \"Mussolini and I\", in which Bob Hoskins plays the dictator (with Susan Sarandon as his daughter Edda and Anthony Hopkins as Count Ciano). Actor Antonio Banderas also played the title role in \"Benito\" in 1993, which covered his life from his school teacher days to the beginning of World War I, before his rise as dictator. Mussolini is also depicted in the films \"Tea with Mussolini\", \"Lion of the Desert\" (also with Steiger) and the award-winning Italian film \"Vincere\".\n\nA comic strip ran in the British comic \"The Beano\" entitled \"Musso the Wop\". This strip, which ran from 1940 to 1943, featured Mussolini as an arrogant buffoon.\n\n\"Der Mussolini\" is a hit single by the German electropunk/Neue Deutsche Welle band Deutsch Amerikanische Freundschaft (DAF), from their Deutscher Schallplattenpreis-winning 1981 album \"Alles Ist Gut\". It was covered by German-American industrial rock band KMFDM on their 2006 remix album \"Ruck Zuck\", as well as German EBM/synthpop band And One on their 2007 EP \"Bodypop 1½\".\n\nMussolini is the protagonist of the 2009 film \"Vincere\", directed by Marco Bellocchio. Mussolini is a major character in Niven and Pournelle's Inferno, a retelling of Dante's work of that name. He is referenced in the season 1 episode 3 of the documentary \"Dictators Rulebook\", by National Geographic.\n\nThe episode \"The Ghost of Nero\" of the television series \"Time Tunnel\" depict Mussolini as a corporal; at the end of the episode, he becomes indwelt by the ghost of Nero.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "338861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338861", "title": "Carolyn Gold Heilbrun", "text": "Carolyn Gold Heilbrun\n\nCarolyn Gold Heilbrun (January 13, 1926 – October 9, 2003) was an American academic at Columbia University, the first woman to receive tenure in the English department, and a prolific feminist author of academic studies. In addition, beginning in the 1960s, she published numerous popular mystery novels with a woman protagonist, under the pen name of Amanda Cross. These have been translated into numerous languages and in total sold nearly one million copies worldwide.\n\nHeilbrun attended graduate school in English literature at Columbia University, receiving her M.A. in 1951 and Ph.D in 1959. Among her most important mentors were Columbia professors Jacques Barzun and Lionel Trilling, while Clifton Fadiman was an important inspiration: She wrote about these three in her final non-fiction work, \"When Men Were the Only Models We Had: My Teachers Barzun, Fadiman, Trilling\" (2002).\n\nHeilbrun taught English at Columbia for more than three decades, from 1960 to 1992. She was the first woman to receive tenure in the English Department and held an endowed position. Her academic specialty was British modern literature, with a particular interest in the Bloomsbury Group. Her academic books include the feminist study \"Writing a Woman's Life\" (1988). In 1983, she co-founded and became co-editor of the Columbia University Press's Gender and Culture Series with literary scholar Nancy K. Miller. From 1985 until her retirement in 1992, she was Avalon Foundation Professor in the Humanities at Columbia.\n\nHeilbrun was the author of 14 Kate Fansler mysteries, published under the pen name of Amanda Cross. Her protagonist Kate Fansler, like Heilbrun, was an English professor. Heilbrun kept her second career as a mystery novelist secret in order to protect her academic career, until a fan discovered \"Amanda Cross\"' true identity through copyright records. Through her novels, all set in academia, Heilbrun explored issues in feminism, academic politics, women's friendships, and other social and political themes. \"Death in a Tenured Position\" (1981, set at Harvard University) was particularly harsh in its criticism of the academic establishment's treatment of women. Her books were translated into \"Japanese, German, French, Swedish, Finnish, Spanish and Italian, selling in total nearly a million copies worldwide.\"\n\nHeilbrun was born in East Orange, New Jersey, to Archibald Gold and Estelle (Roemer) Gold. The family moved to Manhattan's Upper West Side when she was a child. She graduated from Wellesley College in 1947 at the top of her class. She married James Heilbrun, whom she met in college. He was an economist and they had three children. She completed her master's and doctorate degrees after her marriage, and was the first woman hired in Columbia's English department.\n\nIn the book \"The Last Gift of Time: Life Beyond Sixty\", Heilbrun expressed her desire to take her own life on her 70th birthday because \"there is no joy in life past that point, only to experience the miserable endgame.\" She turned 70 in January 1996 and did not follow up on her idea at the time. She lived another seven years. One fall morning in 2003, she went for a walk around New York City with her longtime friend Mary Ann Caws and told the latter: \"I feel sad.\" When Caws prompted her why, Heilbrun responded: \"The universe.\" Afterward, she went home to her apartment. The next morning she was found dead, having taken sleeping pills and placed a plastic bag over her head. She left a suicide note, which read: \"The journey is over. Love to all.\" She was 77 years old. According to her son, she had been in good health with no known physical or mental ailments, and she felt her life was \"completed\".\n\nHeilbrun enjoyed solitude when working and, despite being a wife and mother of three, often spent time alone at various retreats over the years, including her luxury Manhattan apartment and a country home in upstate New York. She also had a Summer house in Alford, Massachusetts. At the age of 68, she purchased a new home to use by herself, as she wanted a private place. She held strong opinions on nearly every aspect of women's lives and also believed that ending one's own life was a basic human right. In keeping with her views on aging in \"The Last Gift of Time: Life Beyond Sixty\", she quit wearing high heels, hose, and form-fitting clothing in her early 60s. She adopted blouses and slacks as her daily attire. Heilbrun's son recalled, \"My mother was a generous hostess when she was young, but lost interest in dinner parties as she got older. She preferred to order groceries from the local supermarket and have them sent to her apartment as she was too busy to waste time squeezing oranges at Fairway.\"\n\nHeilbrun was the subject of a 1992 \"New York Times Magazine\" profile by Anne Matthews wherein she accused the Columbia English Department of discriminating against women. Former Dean of Columbia College Carl Hovde admitted that there was widespread past discrimination against women at Columbia \"and all other universities,\" but dismissed Matthew's accusations of current discriminations in an angry letter to the editor as \"rubbish.\" Nonetheless, Heilbrun was very specific in her memories of being a celebrated female professor at Columbia. \"When I spoke up for women's issues, I was made to feel unwelcome in my own department, kept off crucial committees, ridiculed, ignored,\" Heilbrun told the New York Times. \"Ironically, my name in the catalogue gave Columbia a reputation for encouraging feminist studies in modernism. Nothing could be further from the truth.\"\n\nHeilbrun was a scholar and the author of 14 nonfiction books, including the feminist study \"Writing a Woman's Life\" (1988). These books include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "681691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=681691", "title": "E. H. Carr", "text": "E. H. Carr\n\nEdward Hallett \"Ted\" Carr (28 June 1892 – 3 November 1982) was an English historian, diplomat, journalist and international relations theorist, and an opponent of empiricism within historiography.\n\nCarr was best known for his 14-volume history of the Soviet Union, in which he provided an account of Soviet history from 1917 to 1929, for his writings on international relations, particularly \"The Twenty Years' Crisis\", and for his book \"What Is History?\", in which he laid out historiographical principles rejecting traditional historical methods and practices.\n\nEducated at the Merchant Taylors' School, London, and at Trinity College, Cambridge, Carr began his career as a diplomat in 1916; three years later, he participated at the Paris Peace Conference as a member of the British delegation. Becoming increasingly preoccupied with the study of international relations and of the Soviet Union, he resigned from the Foreign Office in 1936 to begin an academic career. From 1941 to 1946, Carr worked as an assistant editor at \"The Times\", where he was noted for his leaders (editorials) urging a socialist system and an Anglo-Soviet alliance as the basis of a post-war order. Afterwards, Carr worked on a massive 14-volume work on Soviet history entitled \"A History of Soviet Russia\", a project that he was still engaged on at the time of his death in 1982. In 1961, he delivered the G. M. Trevelyan lectures at the University of Cambridge that became the basis of his book, \"What Is History?\" Moving increasingly towards the left throughout his career, Carr saw his role as the theorist who would work out the basis of a new international order.\n\nCarr was born in London to a middle-class family, and was educated at the Merchant Taylors' School in London, and Trinity College, Cambridge, where he was awarded a First Class Degree in Classics in 1916. Carr's family had originated in northern England, and the first mention of his ancestors was a George Carr who served as the Sheriff of Newcastle in 1450. Carr's parents were Francis Parker and Jesse (née Hallet) Carr. They were initially Conservatives, but went over to supporting the Liberals in 1903 over the free trade issue. When Joseph Chamberlain proclaimed his opposition to free trade and announced in favour of Imperial Preference, Carr's father, for whom all tariffs were abhorrent, changed his political loyalties.\n\nCarr described the atmosphere at the Merchant Taylors School: \"95% of my school fellows came from orthodox Conservative homes, and regarded Lloyd George as an incarnation of the devil. We Liberals were a tiny despised minority.\" From his parents, Carr inherited a strong belief in progress as an unstoppable force in world affairs, and throughout his life a recurring theme in Carr's thinking was that the world was progressively becoming a better place. With his belief in progress was a tendency on Carr's part to decry pessimism as mere whining from those who could not appreciate the benefits of progress. In 1911, Carr won the Craven Scholarship to attend Trinity College at Cambridge. At Cambridge, Carr was much impressed by hearing one of his professors lecture on how the Peloponnesian War influenced Herodotus in the writing of the \"Histories\". Carr found this to be a great discovery—the subjectivity of the historian's craft. This discovery was later to influence his 1961 book \"What Is History?\".\n\nLike many of his generation, Carr found World War I to be a shattering experience as it destroyed the world he knew before 1914. Carr was later to write that the pre-1914 world was \"solid and stable. [...] It was a good place, and it was getting better. He joined the British Foreign Office in 1916, resigning in 1936. Carr was excused from military service for medical reasons. Carr was at first assigned to the Contraband Department of the Foreign Office, which sought to enforce the blockade on Germany, and then in 1917 was assigned to the Northern Department, which amongst other areas dealt with relations with Russia.\n\nAs a diplomat, Carr was later praised by the Foreign Secretary Lord Halifax as someone who had \"distinguished himself not only by sound learning and political understanding, but also in administrative ability\". At first, Carr knew nothing about the Bolsheviks. Carr later recalled: \"I had some vague impression of the revolutionary views of Lenin and Trotsky, but knew nothing of Marxism; I'd probably never heard of Marx\". By 1919, Carr had become convinced that the Bolsheviks were destined to win the Russian Civil War, and approved of the Prime Minister David Lloyd George's opposition to the anti-Bolshevik ideas of the War Secretary Winston Churchill on the grounds of \"realpolitik\". Carr was to later to write that in the spring of 1919 he \"was disappointed when he [Lloyd George] gave way (in part) on the Russian question in order to buy French consent to concessions to Germany on Upper Silesia, Danzig and reparations\"\n\nIn 1919, Carr was part of the British delegation at the Paris Peace Conference and was involved in the drafting of parts of the Treaty of Versailles relating to the League of Nations. During the conference, Carr was much offended at the Allied, especially French, treatment of the Germans, writing that the German delegation at the peace conference were \"cheated over the \"Fourteen Points\", and subjected to every petty humiliation\". Beside working on the sections of the Versailles treaty relating to the League of Nations, Carr was also involved in working out the borders between Germany and the newly reborn state of Poland. Initially, Carr favoured Poland, urging in a memo in February 1919 that Britain recognise Poland at once, and that the German city of Danzig (modern Gdańsk, Poland) be ceded to Poland. In March 1919, Carr fought against the idea of a Minorities Treaty for Poland, arguing that the rights of ethnic and religious minorities in Poland would be best guaranteed by not involving the international community in Polish internal affairs. By the spring of 1919, Carr's relations with the Polish delegation had declined to a state of mutual hostility.\n\nCarr's tendency to favour the claims of the Germans at the expense of the Poles led the British historian Adam Zamoyski to note that Carr \"held views of the most extraordinary racial arrogance on all of the nations of Eastern Europe\". Carr's biographer, Jonathan Haslam, wrote in a 2000 essay that Carr grew up in a place where German culture was deeply appreciated, which in turn always coloured Carr's views towards Germany throughout his life. As a result, Carr supported the territorial claims of the \"Reich\" against Poland. In a letter written in 1954 to his friend, Isaac Deutscher, Carr described his attitude to Poland at the time: \"The picture of Poland that was universal in Eastern Europe right down to 1925 was of a strong and potentially predatory power\".\n\nAfter the peace conference, Carr was stationed at the British Embassy in Paris until 1921, and in 1920 was awarded a CBE. At first, Carr had great faith in the League, which he believed would prevent both another world war and ensure a better post-war world. In the 1920s, Carr was assigned to the branch of the British Foreign Office that dealt with the League of Nations before being sent to the British Embassy in Riga, Latvia, where he served as Second Secretary between 1925 and 1929. In 1925, Carr married Anne Ward Howe, by whom he had one son. During his time in Riga (which at that time possessed a substantial Russian émigré community), Carr became increasingly fascinated with Russian literature and culture and wrote several works on various aspects of Russian life.\n\nCarr learnt Russian during his time in Riga to read Russian writers in the original. In 1927, Carr paid his first visit to Moscow. Carr was later to write that reading Alexander Herzen, Fyodor Dostoyevsky and the work of other 19th-century Russian intellectuals caused him to re-think his liberal views. Carr wrote under the influence of reading various Russian writers he found his \"liberal moralistic ideology\" lacking and that \"very intelligent people [...] looked at the world through very different eyes\". He noted that this caused him to react \"more and more sharply against the Western ideology\". Starting in 1929, Carr started to review books relating to all things Russian and Soviet and to international relations in several British literary journals and later towards the end of his life, the \"London Review of Books\". In particular, Carr emerged as the \"Times Literary Supplement\"'s Soviet expert in the early 1930s, a position he still held at the time of his death in 1982 Because of his status as a diplomat (until 1936), most of Carr's reviews in the period 1929–36 were published either anonymously or under the pseudonym \"John Hallett\". In the summer of 1929, Carr began work on a biography of the Russian writer Fyodor Dostoyevsky, during which the course of researching Dostoevsky's life, Carr befriended Prince D. S. Mirsky, a Russian émigré scholar living at that time in Britain.\n\nBeside studies on international relations, Carr's writings in the 1930s included biographies of Fyodor Dostoyevsky (1931), Karl Marx (1934), and Mikhail Bakunin (1937). An early sign of Carr's increasing admiration of the Soviet Union was a 1929 review of Baron Pyotr Wrangel's memoirs where Carr wrote: \"It is not longer possible for any sane man to regard the campaigns of Kolchak, Yudenich, Denikin and Wrangel otherwise than as tragic blunders of colossal dimensions. They were monuments of folly in conception and of incompetence in execution; they cost, directly and indirectly, hundreds of thousands of lives; and except in so far as they may have increased the bitterness of the Soviet rulers against the \"White\" Russians and the Allies who half-heartedly supported them, they did not deflect the course of history by a single hair's breadth\". In an article entitled \"Age of Reason\" published in the \"Spectator\" on 26 April 1930, Carr attacked what he regarded as the prevailing culture of pessimism within the West, which he blamed on the French writer Marcel Proust. Carr wrote:\"It was about the turn of the [20th] century that the trouble began. It did not come from the rebels or radicals...It came rather with men like Kipling and Rostand, men loyal to the core to the old traditions, men of genius-and yet who somehow did not quite pull it off...The great days of the glory of man and his achievements were numbered. The vein was petering out; in some strange way it no longer came off. It was, men said, the end of the Victorian Age...It was once the vulgar ambition of mankind to make something out of nothing; Proust brought perfection to the more genteel pastime of resolving everything into nothingness\".\n\nIn the early 1930s, Carr found the Great Depression to be almost profoundly shocking as the First World War. In an article entitled \"England Adrift\" published in September 1930, Carr wrote: \"The prevailing state of mind in England to-day is one of defeatism or...skepticism, of disbelief in herself. England has ceased to have ideas, or if, she has them, to believe in the possibility of their fulfillment. Alone among the Great Powers she has ceased to have a mission...The government of the day has so little faith in its capacity to tackle the major problems of our generation that it invites the other parties to assist with their advice (imagine Mr Gladstone invoking the assistance of Lord Beaconsfield!), and the principle opposition party, knowing full well there is no solution, declines the invitation and keeps its hands free to wash them of the consequences...We have no convictions beyond a vague sort of fatalism\".\n\nFurther increasing Carr's interest in a replacement ideology for liberalism was his reaction to hearing the debates in January 1931 at the General Assembly of the League of Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, and especially the speeches on the merits of free trade between the Yugoslav Foreign Minister Vojislav Marinkovich and the British Foreign Secretary Arthur Henderson. Carr wrote:\"At Geneva I followed some of the debates about the economic crisis, which seemed to spell the bankruptcy of capitalism. In particular I was stuck by the fact that everyone professed to believe that tariff barriers were a major cause of aggravation of the crisis, but that practically every country was busy erecting them. I happened to hear a speech by some minor delegate (Yugoslav, I think) which for the first time in my experience put the issue clearly and urgently. Free trade was the doctrine of economically powerful states, which flourished without protection, but would be fatal to weak states. This came as a revelation to me (like the revelation at Cambridge of the relativism of historiography), and was doubly significant because of the part played by free trade in my intellectual upbringing. If free trade went, the whole liberal outlook went with it.\" \n\nIt was at this time that Carr started to admire the Soviet Union. Carr wrote in a book review in February 1931: \"They [the Soviets] have discovered a new religion of the Kilowatt and the Machine, which may well be the creed for which modern civilization is waiting... This new religion is growing up on the fringes of a Europe which has lost faith in herself. Contemporary Europe is aimlessly drifting, refusing to face unpalatable facts, and looking for external remedies for her difficulties. The important question for Europe at the present time is... whether the steel production of the Soviet Union will overtake that of Great Britain and France... whether Europe can discover in herself a driving force, an intensity of faith comparable to that now being generated in Russia\". In a 1932 book review of Lancelot Lawton's \"Economic History of Soviet Russia\", Carr dismissed Lawton's claim that the Soviet economy was a failure, and praised the British Marxist economist Maurice Dobb's extremely favourable assessment of the Soviet economy. Carr concluded that \"as regards economic development, Professor Dobb is conclusive\".\n\nBeside writing on Soviet affairs, Carr also commented on other international events. In an essay published in February 1933 in the \"Fortnightly Review\", Carr blamed what he regarded as a putative Versailles treaty for the recent accession to power of Adolf Hitler Carr wrote that in the 1920s, German leaders like Gustav Stresemann were unable to secure sufficient modifications of the Versailles treaty, owing to the intractable attitude of the Western powers, especially France, and now the West had reaped what it had sown in the form of the Nazi regime. However, despite some concerns about National Socialism, Carr ended his essay by writing that:\"The crucial point about Hitlerism is that its disciples not only believe in themselves, but believe in Germany. For the first time since the war a party appeared outside the narrow circles of the extreme Right which was not afraid to proclaim its pride in being German. It will perhaps one day be recognized as the greatest service of Hitlerism that, in a way quite unprecedented in German politics, it cut across all social distinctions, embracing in its ranks working men, \"bourgeoisie\", intelligentsia and aristocrats. \"Germany Awake!\" became a living national faith\".\n\nInitially, Carr's political outlook was anti-Marxist and liberal. In his 1934 biography of Karl Marx, Carr presented his subject as highly intelligent man and a gifted writer, but one whose talents were devoted entirely for destruction. Carr argued that Marx's sole and only motivation was a mindless class hatred. Carr labelled dialectical materialism gibberish, and the labour theory of value doctrinal and derivative. Carr wrote that:\"The pseudo-Marxist is a pathetic figure. He knows that Marxism is moonshine, but he still nourishes the hope of finding in it a gleam to follow.\" Speaking of the differences between the fascist regimes and the Soviet Union, Carr wrote:\"the only difference between the so-called \"dictatorship of the proletariat\" and the dictatorships which prefer to hoist other flags is that the one proclaims its Marxist paternity whereas the others deny it.\" Despite his hostile appraisal of Marx, Carr ended his book by writing that recent developments in the Soviet Union meant that Marx had: \"a claim to be regarded as the most far-seeing genius of the nineteenth century and one of the most successful prophets in history\"Carr went on to write:\"There are now few thinking man who will dismiss with confidence the Marxian assumption that capitalism, developed to its highest point, inevitably encompasses its own destruction.\" Likewise, Carr praised Marx for emphasising the importance of the collective over the individual. Carr wrote that:\n\"In a sense, Marx is the protagonist and forerunner of the whole twentieth century revolution of thought. The nineteenth century saw the end of the period of humanism which began with the Renaissance-the period which took as its ideal the highest development of the faculties and liberties of the individual...Marx understood that, in the new order, the individual would play a minor part. Individualism implies differentiation; everything that is undifferentiated does not count. The Industrial Revolution would place in power the undifferentiated mass. Not man, but mass-man, not the individual, but the class, not the political man, would be the unit of the coming dispensation. Not only industry, but the whole of civilization, would become a matter of mass-production.\"\n\nIn view of his later conversion to a sort of quasi-Marxism, Carr was to find the passages in \"Karl Marx: A Study in Fanaticism\" criticising Marx to be highly embarrassing, and refused to allow the book to be republished. Carr was to later call his Marx biography his worst book, and complained that he had written it only because his publisher had made a Marx biography the precondition of publishing the biography of Mikhail Bakunin that he was writing. In his books such as \"The Romantic Exiles\" and \"Dostoevsky\", Carr was noted for his highly ironical treatment of his subjects, implying that their lives were of interest but not of great importance. In the mid-1930s, Carr was especially preoccupied with the life and ideas of Bakunin. During this period, Carr started writing a novel about the visit of a Bakunin-type Russian radical to Victorian Britain who proceeded to expose all of Carr regarded as the pretensions and hypocrisies of British bourgeois society. The novel was never finished or published.\n\nAs a diplomat in the 1930s, Carr took the view that great division of the world into rival trading blocs caused by the American Smoot Hawley Act of 1930 was the principal cause of German belligerence in foreign policy, as Germany was now unable to export finished goods or import raw materials cheaply. In Carr's opinion, if Germany could be given its own economic zone to dominate in Eastern Europe comparable to the British Imperial preference economic zone, the US dollar zone in the Americas, the French gold bloc zone and the Japanese economic zone, then the peace of the world could be assured. In a memo written on 30 January 1936, Carr wrote:\"Since I think everyone is now agreed that it is dangerous to sit indefinitely on the safety-valve, and that Germany must expand somewhere, I feel that there is an overwhelming case for the view that the direction in which Germany can expand with a minimum of danger or inconvenience to British interests (whether political or economic) is in Central and South-Eastern Europe...\" Carr's views on appeasement caused much tension with his superior, the Permanent Undersecretary Sir Robert Vansittart, and played a role in Carr's resignation from the Foreign Office later in 1936 In an article entitled \"An English Nationalist Abroad\" published in May 1936 in the \"Spectator\", Carr wrote \"The methods of the Tudor sovereigns, when they were making the English nation, invite many comparisons with those of the Nazi regime in Germany\" In this way, Carr argued that it was hypocritical for people in Britain to criticise the Nazi regime's human rights record Because of Carr's strong antagonism to the Treaty of Versailles, which he viewed as unjust to Germany, Carr was very supportive of the Nazi regime's efforts to destroy Versailles through moves such as the Remilitarisation of the Rhineland in 1936 Carr later wrote of his views in the 1930s that \"No doubt, I was very blind\".\n\nIn 1936, Carr became the Woodrow Wilson Professor of International Politics at the University College of Wales, Aberystwyth, and is particularly known for his contribution on international relations theory. Carr's last words of advice as a diplomat was a memo urging that Britain accept the Balkans as an exclusive zone of influence for Germany. Additionally in articles published in the \"Christian Science Monitor\" on 2 December 1936 and in the January 1937 edition of \"Fortnightly Review\", Carr argued that the Soviet Union and France were not working for collective security, but rather \"a division of the Great Powers into two armored camps\", supported non-intervention in the Spanish Civil War, and asserted that King Leopold III of Belgium had made a major step towards peace with his declaration of neutrality of 14 October 1936. Two major intellectual influences on Carr in the mid-1930s were Karl Mannheim's 1936 book \"Ideology and Utopia\", and the work of Reinhold Niebuhr on the need to combine morality with realism.\n\nCarr's appointment as the Woodrow Wilson Professor of International Politics caused a stir when he started to use his position to criticise the League of Nations, a viewpoint which caused much tension with his benefactor, Lord Davies, who was a strong supporter of the League. Lord Davies had established the Wilson Chair in 1924 with the intention of increasing public support for his beloved League, which helps to explain his chagrin at Carr's anti-League lectures. In his first lecture on 14 October 1936 Carr stated the League was ineffective and that:\"I do not believe the time is ripe...for the establishment of a super-national force to maintain order in the international community and I believe any scheme by which nations should bind themselves to go to war with other nations for the preservation of peace is not only impracticable, but retrograde\". In the same lecture, Carr stated:\"If European democracy binds its living body to the putrefying corpse of the 1919 settlement, it will merely be committing a particularly unpleasant form of suicide\".\n\nIn 1937, Carr visited the Soviet Union for a second time, and was impressed by what he saw. During his visit to the Soviet Union, Carr may have inadvertently caused the death of his friend, Prince D. S. Mirsky. Carr stumbled into Prince Mirsky on the streets of Leningrad (modern Saint Petersburg, Russia), and despite Prince Mirsky's best efforts to pretend not to know him, Carr persuaded his old friend to have lunch with him. Since this was at the height of the \"Yezhovshchina\", and any Soviet citizen who had any unauthorised contact with a foreigner was likely to be regarded as a spy, the NKVD arrested Prince Mirsky as a British spy; he died two years later in a Gulag camp near Magadan. As part of the same trip that took Carr to the Soviet Union in 1937 was a visit to Germany. In a speech given on 12 October 1937 at the Chatham House summarising his impressions of those two countries, Carr reported that Germany was \"almost a free country\". Unaware apparently of the fate of his friend, Carr spoke in his speech of the \"strange behaviour\" of his old friend, Prince Mirsky, who had at first gone to great lengths to try to pretend that he did not know Carr during their accidental meeting in Leningrad. Carr ended his speech by arguing that it was unfair for people in Britain to criticise either of the two dictatorships, who, Carr asserted, were only reacting to the problems of the Great Depression. Carr stated:\"But let us look a little at the historical perspective. Both the German and Russian regimes, today, represent a reaction against the individualistic ideology prevailing at any, in Western Europe, for the last hundred and fifty years...The whole system of individualist laissez-faire economy has we know, broken down. It has broken down because production and trade can only be carried out on a nationwide scale and with the aid of State machinery and State control. Now, State control has come in its most naked and undisguised form precisely where the individualist tradition was the weakest, in Germany and Russia\".\n\nIn the 1930s, Carr was a leading supporter of appeasement. In the 1930s, Carr saw Germany as the victim of the Versailles treaty, and Hitler as a typical German leader, attempting like every other previous German leader since 1919 to overthrow that settlement. In his writings on international affairs in British newspapers, Carr criticised the Czechoslovak President Edvard Beneš for clinging to the alliance with France, rather than accepting that it was his country's destiny to be in the German sphere of influence. At the same time, Carr strongly praised the Polish Foreign Minister Colonel Józef Beck, who with his balancing act between France, Germany, and the Soviet Union as \"a realist who grasped the fundamentals of the European situation\" and argued that his policies were \"from the Polish point of view...brilliantly successful\". Starting in the late 1930s, Carr started to become even more sympathetic toward the Soviet Union, as Carr was much impressed by the apparent achievements of the Five-Year Plans, which stood in marked contrast to the seeming failures of capitalism in the Great Depression.\n\nHis famous work \"The Twenty Years' Crisis\" was published in July 1939, which dealt with the subject of international relations between 1919 and 1939. In that book, Carr defended appeasement under the grounds that it was the only realistic policy option. At the time the book was published in the summer of 1939, Neville Chamberlain had adopted his \"containment\" policy towards Germany, leading Carr to later ruefully comment that his book was dated even before it was published. In the spring and summer of 1939, Carr was very dubious about Chamberlain's \"guarantee\" of Polish independence issued on 31 March 1939, which he regarded as an act of folly and madness. In April 1939, Carr wrote in opposition to Chamberlain's \"guarantee\" of Poland that: \"The use or threatened use of force to maintain the \"status quo\" may be morally more culpable than the use or threatened use of force to alter it\".\n\nIn \"The Twenty Year's Crisis\", Carr divided thinkers on international relations into two schools, which he labelled the realists and the utopians. Reflecting his own disillusion with the League of Nations, Carr attacked as \"utopians\" those like Norman Angell who believed that a new and better international structure could be built around the League. In Carr's opinion, the entire international order constructed at Versailles was flawed and the League was a hopeless dream that could never do anything practical.\n\nCarr argued against the view that the problems of the world in 1939 were the work of a clique of evil men and dismissed Arnold J. Toynbee's view that \"we are living in an exceptionally wicked age\". Carr asserted that the problems of the world in 1939 were due to structural political-economic problems that transcended the importance of individual national leaders and argued that the focus on individuals as causal agents was equivalent to focusing on the trees rather the forest. Carr contended that the 19th century theory of a balance of interests amongst the powers was an erroneous belief and instead contended that international relations was an incessant struggle between the economically privileged \"have\" powers and the economically disadvantaged \"have not\" powers. In this economic understanding of international relations, \"have\" powers like the United States, Britain and France were inclined to avoid war because of their contented status whereas \"have not\" powers like Germany, Italy and Japan were inclined towards war as they had nothing to lose. In Carr's opinion, ideological differences between fascism and democracy were beside the point as he used as an example Japan, which Carr argued was not a fascist state but still a \"have not\" power. Carr attacked Adam Smith for claiming there was a \"harmony of interests\" between the individual and their community, writing that \"the doctrine of the harmony of interests was tenable only if you left out of account the interests of the weak who must be driven to the wall\". Carr claimed after World War I, the American President Woodrow Wilson had unfortunately created an international order based on the doctrine of \"harmony of interests\" through the \"utopian\" instrument of the League of Nations with disastrous results. Carr argued that the only way to make the League (which Carr otherwise held in complete contempt by 1939) an effective force for peace was to persuade Germany, Italy and Japan to return to the League by promising them that their economic grievances could and would be worked out at the League. Carr called \"The Twenty Year's Crisis\":\"not exactly a Marxist work, but strongly impregnated with Marxist ways of thinking, applied to international affairs\" The distinction between \"have\" and \"have not\" nations perhaps reflected the influence of the theory first propagated by Enrico Corradini and later adopted by Benito Mussolini of the natural conflict between \"proletarian\" nations like Italy and \"plutocratic\" nations like Britain. In \"The Twenty Years' Crisis\", Carr wrote: \"When Herr Hitler refuses to believe that \"God has permitted some nations first to acquire a world by force and then to defend this robbery with moralising theories\", we have an authentic echo of the Marxist denial of a community of interest between \"haves\" and \"have-nots\", of the Marxist exposure of the interested character of \"bourgeois\" morality...\"\n\nIn \"The Twenty Years' Crisis\", Carr argued that the entire peace settlement of 1919 was flawed by the decisions of the British Prime Minister David Lloyd George, the French Premier Georges Clemenceau and above all the American President Woodrow Wilson to impose a sterile international order in the post-war world. In particular, Carr claimed that what he saw as the basis of the post-1919 international order, namely the combination of 19th century style \"laissez-faire\" capitalism and the nationalism inspired by the principle of national self-determination, made for a highly defective peace settlement, and hence a very dangerous world. Carr later wrote that:\"\"The Twenty Years' Crisis\" was written with the deliberate aim of counteracting the glaring and dangerous defect of nearly all thinking about international politics in the English-speaking countries from 1919 to 1939-the almost total neglect of the factor of power\".\n\nIn Carr's opinion, the repeated demands made by Adolf Hitler for \"lebensraum\" (living space) was merely a reflection of Germany being a \"have not\" power (like many in interwar Britain, Carr misunderstood the term \"lebensraum\" as referring to a zone of exclusive economic influence for Germany in Eastern Europe). In Carr's view, the belligerence of the fascist powers was the \"natural cynical reaction\" to the empty moralising of the \"have\" powers, who refused to make any concessions until the state of international relations had been allowed to seriously deteriorate. Carr argued that on moral and practical grounds the Treaty of Versailles had done a profound wrong to Germany and that the present state of world tensions in 1939 was caused by the inability and/or unwillingness of the other powers to readdress that wrong in a timely fashion. Carr defended the Munich Agreement as the overdue recognition of changes in the balance of power. In \"The Twenty Years' Crisis\", Carr was highly critical of Winston Churchill, whom Carr described as a mere opportunist interested only in power for himself. Writing of Churchill's opposition to appeasement, Carr stated \"The realist will have no difficulty in recognizing the pragmatic, through no doubt unconscious adjustment of Mr. Churchill's judgments to his policy of the moment.\"\n\nIn the same book, Carr described the opposition of realism and utopianism in international relations as a dialectic progress. Carr described realism as the acceptance that what exists is right and the belief that there is no reality or forces outside history such as God. Carr argued that in realism there is no moral dimension and that what is successful is right and that what is unsuccessful is wrong. Carr argued that for realists there are no basis for moralising about the past, present or the future and that \"World history is the World Court\". Carr rejected both utopianism and realism as the basis of a new international order and instead called a synthesis of the two. Carr wrote that:\"Having demolished the current utopia with weapons of realism we still need to build a new utopia of our own, which will fall to the same weapons\". Though Carr was highly sympathetic towards the realist case in international relations and rejected utopianism as the basis of the international order, Carr described realism as lacking :\"a finite goal, an emotional appeal, a right of moral judgment, and a ground for action\".\n\nNorman Angell, one of the \"utopian\" thinkers attacked by in \"The Twenty Years' Crisis\" called the book a \"completely mischievous piece of sophisticated moral nihilism\" In a review, Angell commented that Carr's claim that international law was only a device for allowing \"have\" nations to maintain their privileged position provided \"aid and comfort in about equal degree to the followers of Marx and the followers of Hitler\". Angell maintained that Carr's claim that \"resistance to aggression\" was only an empty slogan on the part of the \"have\" nations meant only for keeping down the \"have not\" nations was a \"veritable gold mine for Dr. Goebbels\". In response to \"The Twenty Years' Crisis\", Angell wrote a book entitled \"Why Freedom Matters\" intended to rebut Carr. Another of the \"utopian\" thinkers attacked by Carr, Arnold J. Toynbee wrote that reading \"The Twenty Years' Crisis\" left one \"in a moral vacuum and at a political dead point\". Another \"utopian\", the British historian R.W. Seton-Watson wrote in response that it was \"simply farcical\" that Carr could write of morality in international politics without mentioning Christianity once in his book. In a 2004 speech, the American political scientist John Mearsheimer praised \"The Twenty Years' Crisis\" and argued that Carr was correct when he claimed that international relations was a struggle of all against all with states always placing their own interests first. Mearsheimer maintained that Carr's points were still as relevant for 2004 as for 1939 and went on to deplore what he claimed was the dominance of \"idealist\" thinking about international relations among British academic life\nCarr immediately followed up \"The Twenty Year's Crisis\" with \"Britain : A Study of Foreign Policy From The Versailles Treaty to the Outbreak of War\", a study of British foreign policy in the inter-war period that featured a preface by the Foreign Secretary, Lord Halifax. Carr ended his support for appeasement, which had so vociferously expressed in \"The Twenty Year's Crisis\" in the late summer of 1939 with a favourable review of a book containing a collection of Churchill's speeches from 1936 to 1938, which Carr wrote were \"justifiably\" alarmist about Germany. After 1939, Carr largely abandoned writing about international relations in favour of contemporary events and Soviet history. Carr was to write only three more books about international relations after 1939, namely \"The Future of Nations; Independence Or Interdependence?\" (1941), \"German-Soviet Relations Between The Two World Wars, 1919–1939\" (1951) and \"International Relations Between The Two World Wars, 1919–1939\" (1955). After the outbreak of World War II, Carr stated that he was somewhat mistaken in his prewar views on Nazi Germany. In the 1946 revised edition of \"The Twenty Years' Crisis\", Carr was more hostile in his appraisal of German foreign policy then he had been in the first edition in 1939. Through \"The Twenty Years' Crisis\" was published just months before World War II began, the Japanese historian Saho Matusumoto wrote that in a sense, Carr's book began the debate on the origins of World War II.\n\nSome of the major themes of Carr's writings were change and the relationship between ideational and material forces in society. Carr saw a major theme of history was the growth of reason as a social force. Carr argued that all major social changes had been caused by revolutions or wars, both of which Carr regarded as necessary but unpleasant means of accomplishing social change. Carr saw his major task in all of writings of finding a better way of working out social transformations. Carr maintained that every revolution starting with the French Revolution had helped to move humanity in a progressive direction but had failed to complete their purpose because of the lack of the essential instruments to finish the revolutionary project. Carr asserted that social changes had to be linked with a realistic understanding of the limitations of social changes to build lasting institutions capable of maintaining social change. Carr claimed that in modern industrial society that a dialogue between various social forces was the best way of achieving a social transformation \"toward goals which can be defined only as we advance towards them, and the validity of which can only be verified in a process of attaining them\".\n\nDuring World War II, Carr's political views took a sharp turn towards the left. Carr spent the Phoney War working as a clerk with the propaganda department of the Foreign Office. As Carr did not believe Britain could defeat Germany, the declaration of war on Germany on 3 September 1939 left him highly depressed.\n\nIn March 1940, Carr resigned from the Foreign Office to serve as the writer of leaders (editorials) for \"The Times\". In his second leader published on 21 June 1940 entitled \"The German Dream\", Carr wrote that Hitler was offering a \"Europe united by conquest\". Carr went on to write:\"There must and will be a new order in Europe. But this cannot be achieved through the overweening ambition of one man or one country in defiance of the will of the majority of Europeans and of the whole world outside of Europe. To speculate on better ways of building the new order would at the present time be to divert energy from far more urgent tasks. But two conditions must at least be fulfilled. The new European order cannot be achieved through conquest but only through co-operation and it must unite Europe with the non-European world, not divide Europe from it.\" In a leader of 1 July 1940 Carr wrote that the first conclusion to be drawn from the present war was that \"the conception of the small national unit, not strong enough for an active role in international politics, but enjoying all the prerogatives and responsibilities of a sovereignty, has been rendered obsolete by modern armaments and the scope of modern warfare\". Carr ended by writing:\"Europe can no longer afford a multiplicity of economic units, each maintaining its independent economic system behind a barbed wire of tariffs, quotas, exchange restrictions and barter agreements...Over the greater part of Western Europe the common values for which we stand are known and prized. We must indeed beware of these values in purely nineteenth-century terms. If we speak of democracy, we do not mean a democracy which maintains the right to vote but forgets the right to work and the right to live. If we speak of freedom, we do not mean a rugged individualism which excludes social organization and economic planning. If we speak of equality, we do not mean a political equality nullified by social and economic privilege. If we speak of economic reconstruction we think less of maximum production (through this too will be required) than of equitable distribution\". In a leader during the summer of 1940, Carr defended the Soviet annexation of the Baltic States under the grounds that this was \"not merely pressure from Moscow, but sincere recognition that this was a better alternative than absorption into a new Nazi Europe\".\n\nCarr served as the assistant editor of \"The Times\" from 1941 to 1946, during which time he was well known for the pro-Soviet attitudes that he expressed in his leaders (editorials) he wrote. After June 1941, Carr' s already strong admiration for the Soviet Union was much increased by the Soviet Union's role in defeating Germany.\n\nIn one of his first leaders Carr for the \"Times\", he declared:\"The PRIME MINISTER expressed the mood of the nation when he declared that our only present war aim is victory. Nevertheless the British will to victory is still bound up with the conviction that our war aims stand on a different plane from those of the enemy, and that victory for our aims will point the way to a new social and international order in Europe\". Carr called the war aim of \"destroying Hitlerism\" insufficient, and demanded that the British government express \"a definite picture of what we are fighting for, both to hearten our own people at home and to counteract German propaganda abroad\" In a leader of 5 December 1940 entitled \"The Two Scourges\", Carr wrote that only by removing the \"scourge\" of unemployment could one also remove the \"scourge\" of war. Such was the popularity of \"The Two Scourges\" that it was published as a pamphlet in December 1940, during which in its first print run of 10,000 it completely sold out. In a speech given in December 1940, Carr declared his views about the war that in his opinion:\"This is not altogether a national war, it is to a certain extent a social war, a revolutionary war; as a political revolution it is not simply confined to one country but is more or less world-wide\". Carr's left-wing leaders caused some tension with the editor of the \"Times\", Geoffrey Dawson, who felt that Carr was taking the \"Times\" in a too radical direction, which led Carr for a time being restricted only to writing on foreign policy. After Dawson's ouster in May 1941 and his replacement with Robert M'Gowan Barrington-Ward, Carr was given a free rein to write on whatever he wished. In turn, Barrington-Ward was to find many of Carr's leaders on foreign affairs to be too radical for his liking.\n\nCarr's leaders were noted for their advocacy of a socialist European economy under the control of an international planning board, and for his support for the idea of an Anglo-Soviet alliance as the basis of the post-war international order. In one of his leaders, Carr stated \"The new order cannot be based on the preservation of privilege, whether the privilege be that of a country, of a class, or of an individual.\" Carr himself later described his attitude to the Soviets during his stint at the \"Times\": \"In the \"Times\" I very quickly began to plug the Russian alliance; and when this was vindictated by Russian endurance and Russian victory, it revived my faith in the Russian revolution as a great achievement and a historical turning point. It was obvious that the Russia of the Second World War was a very different place from the Russia of the First-terms of people as well of material resources. Looking back on the thirties, I came to feel that my preoccupation with the purges and brutalities of Stalinism had distorted my perspective. The black spots were real enough, but looking exclusively at them destroyed one's vision of what was really happening\". Unlike many of his contemporaries in war-time Britain, Carr was against a Carthaginian peace with Germany, and argued for a post-war reconstruction of Germany along socialist lines. In Carr's opinion, National Socialism was not the natural result of \"Deutschtum\" (Germanism), but rather of capitalism. Carr claimed that once capitalism was removed from German society, the social forces that gave birth to fascism would wither away and die. On his leaders on foreign affairs, Carr was very consistent (and correct) in arguing after 1941 that once the war ended, it was the fate of Eastern Europe to come into the Soviet sphere of influence, and claimed that any effort to the contrary was both vain and immoral. In a leader of August 1941 entitled \"Peace and Power\", Carr wrote that power in Eastern Europe: \"can fall only to Germany or to Russia. Neither Great Britain nor the United States can exercise, or will agree to exercise, any predominant role in these regions...There can be no doubt that British and Russian-and it may be added, American-interests alike demand that Russian influence in Eastern Europe should not be eclipsed by that of Germany.\" In December 1941, Carr wrote \"in Europe, Great Britain and Soviet Russia must become the main bulwarks of a peace which can be preserved, and can be made real, only through their joint endeavour.\" In a memo sent to the British diplomat Frank Roberts (who had criticised Carr's views about the Baltic states) on 16 January 1942 Carr wrote:\"After the collapse of Russia and Germany the Baltic States enjoyed an almost accidental independence during the twenty years interregnum from 1919 to 1939. Apart from this interval in history it was always true that they would have fallen within the orbit either of Russia or Germany, and it is now more certain than ever in an age which has exposed the illusions of neutrality in Europe. The winning of the war means that they will fall within the orbit of Russia\".\n\nBetween 1942–45, Carr was the Chairman of a study group at the Royal Institute of International Affairs concerned with Anglo-Soviet relations. Carr's study group concluded that Stalin had largely abandoned Communist ideology in favour of Russian nationalism, that the Soviet economy would provide a higher standard of living in the Soviet Union after the war, and it was both possible and desirable for Britain to reach a friendly understanding with the Soviets once the war had ended. In 1942, Carr published \"Conditions of Peace\" followed by \"Nationalism and After\" in 1945, in which he outlined his ideas about the post-war world should look like. In his books, and his \"Times\" leaders, Carr urged for the post-war world, the creation of a socialist European federation anchored by an Anglo-German partnership that would be aligned with, but not subordinated to the Soviet Union against the country that Carr saw as the principal post-war danger to world peace, namely the United States.\n\nIn his 1942 book \"Conditions of Peace\", Carr argued that it was a flawed economic system that had caused World War II and that the only way of preventing another world war was for the Western powers to fundamentally change the economic basis of their societies by adopting socialism. Carr argued that the post-war world required a European Planning Authority and a Bank of Europe that would control the currencies, trade, and investment of all the European economies. One of the main sources for ideas in \"Conditions of Peace\" was the 1940 book \"Dynamics of War and Revolution\" by the American Lawrence Dennis In a review of \"Conditions of Peace\", the British writer Rebecca West criticised Carr for using Dennis as a source, commenting \"It is as odd for a serious English writer to quote Sir Oswald Mosley\" In a speech on 2 June 1942 in the House of Lords, Viscount Elibank attacked Carr as an \"active danger\" for his views in \"Conditions of Peace\" about a magnanimous peace with Germany and for suggesting that Britain turn over all of her colonies to an international commission after the war.\n\nIn a leader of 10 March 1943 Carr wrote that: \"There can be no security in Western Europe unless there is also security in Eastern Europe, and security in Eastern Europe is unattainable unless it is buttressed by the military power of Russia. A case so clear and cogent for close co-operation between Britain and Russia after the war cannot fail to carry conviction to any open and impartial mind.\" In the same leader Carr argued for:\"ungrudging and unqualified agreement on the supposition that \"If Britain's frontier is on the Rhine\", it might just as pertinently be said-though it has not in fact been said-that Russia's frontier is on the Oder, and in the same sense.\" The leader of 10 March 1943 led to a protest from the Polish Ambassador, Count\nEdward Raczyński, who wrote in response that he \"knew what Carr's idea of Eastern Europe was, but it is not the idea of the Poles, and they knew well what Russia would mean by friendly governments\".\n\nThe next month, Carr's relations with the Polish government were further worsted by the storm caused by the discovery of the Katyn Forest massacre committed by the NKVD in 1940. In a leader entitled \"Russia and Poland\" on 28 April 1943, Carr blasted the Polish government for accusing the Soviets of committing the Katyn Forest massacre, and for asking the Red Cross to investigate Carr wrote that:\"Every Polish statesmen and every Polish student of history knows his country imperatively needs the friendship of at least one of her greater neighbours, east and west. No Pole today can contemplate the deliberate co-operation of Germany...Yet the action of the Polish government ten days ago beyond a doubt played, in fact though not in intention, directly into German hands [Carr is referring here to the Polish request for the Red Cross to investigate the Katyn Forest massacre] ...Any Polish quarrel with Russia, whatever its origin, necessarily injures the cause of both Poland and of the United Nations.\"\n\nIn 1943, the Classicist Gilbert Murray wrote a letter to Carr, who was still the Woodrow Wilson Professor of International Relations at Aberystwyth, complaining on behalf of Lord Davies that:\"The Chair is a \"Wilson Chair\" and was certainly intended to be a Chair for the Exposition of the League of Nations idea, and the founder has a right to be rather upset when he finds his professor carrying on a sort of anti-Wilson and anti-League campaign. It is not as if you merely criticised the League and wanted it changed and developed; you consider it fundamentally wrong and Wilson's principles as self-contradictory\". In reply to Murray, Carr wrote:\"May I suggest a closer parallel than yours? Would a Newton Professor of Physics be precluded from arguing that Einstein had demonstrated the inadequacy and over-simplification of Newton's laws\". Lord Davies who had been extremely unhappy with Carr almost from the moment that Carr had assumed the Wilson Chair in 1936 launched a major campaign in 1943 to have Carr fired, being particularly upset that through Carr had not taught since 1939, he was still drawing his professor's salary Lord Davies's efforts to have Carr fired failed when the majority of the Aberystwyth staff supported by the powerful Welsh political fixer Thomas Jones sided with Carr.\n\nIn December 1944, when fighting broke out in Athens, Greece between the Greek Communist front organisation ELAS and the British Army, Carr in a \"Times\" leader sided with the Greek Communists, leading to Winston Churchill to condemn him in a speech to the House of Commons. Churchill called Carr's leader defending E.L.A.S \"a melancholy document\" that in his opinion reflected the decline of British journalism. Carr claimed (correctly) that the Greek EAM was the \"largest organised party or group of parties in Greece\" that \"appeared to exercise almost unchallengeable authority\" and called for Britain to recognise the EAM as the legal Greek government. The Anglo-American historian Robert Conquest accused Carr of hypocrisy in supporting the EAM/ELAS, noting Carr was violating his own \"Might is Right\" precepts of international power politics, in which the stronger power was always in the right, regardless of the facts of the case. Since Britain was a much stronger power in the world than the Greek Communists, Conquest argued that Carr by his own standards should have been on the British side during the fighting in Athens in December 1944.\n\nIn contrast to his support for E.A.M/E.L.A.S, Carr was strongly critical of the legitimate Polish government in exile and its Armia Krajowa (Home Army) resistance organisation. In his leaders of 1944 on Poland, Carr urged that Britain break diplomatic relations with the London government and recognise the Soviet sponsored Lublin government as the lawful government of Poland. In a \"Times\" leader of 10 February 1945, Carr questioned whether the Polish government in exile even had the right to speak on behalf of Poland. Carr wrote that it was extremely doubtful whether the London government had \"an exclusive title to speak for the people of Poland and a \"liberum veto\" on any move towards a settlement of Polish affairs\". Carr went to argue that \"The legal credentials of this Government are certainly not beyond challenge if it were relevant to examine them: the obscure and tenuous thread of continuity leads back at best to a constitution deriving from a quasi-Fascist \"coup d'état\"\". Carr ended his leader with the claim that \"What Marshal Stalin desires to see in Warsaw is not a puppet government acting under Russian orders, but a friendly government which, fully conscious of the supreme importance of Russo-Polish concord, will frame its independent policies in that context.\" \n\nIn a May 1945 leader, Carr blasted those who felt that an Anglo-American \"special relationship' would be the principal bulwark of peace, writing that: \"It would be the height of unwisdom to assume that an alliance of the English-speaking world, even it were to find favour with American opinion could form by itself the all-sufficient pillar of world security and render superfluous any other foundation for British policy in Europe.\" As a result of Carr's leaders, the \"Times\" became popularly known during World War II as the three pence \"Daily Worker\" (the price of the \"Daily Worker\" was one penny). Commenting on Carr's pro-Soviet leaders, the British writer George Orwell wrote in 1942 that:\"all the appeasers, e.g. Professor E. H. Carr, have switched their allegiance from Hitler to Stalin\". Reflecting his disgust with Carr's leaders in the \"Times\", the British civil servant Sir Alexander Cadogan, the Permanent Undersecretary at the Foreign Office, wrote in his diary: \"I hope someone will tie Barrington-Ward and Ted Carr together and throw them into the Thames.\"\n\nCarr was to elaborate on these ideas he had first advocated in \"Conditions of Peace\" in his 1945 book \"Nationalism and After\". In that book, Carr wrote \"The driving force behind any future international order must be a belief...in the value of individual human beings irrespective of national affinities or allegiance.\" Carr argued that just as the military was under civilian control, that likewise so should \"the holders of economic power...be responsible to, and take their orders from, the community in exactly the same way\". Carr claimed it was necessary to create \"maximum social and economic opportunity\" for all, and argued that this would be achieved via an international planning authority that would control the world economy, and provide for \"increased consumption for social stability and equitable distribution for maximum production\". Carr described his views at the time as: \"Like a lot of other people, I took refuge in Utopian visions of a new world order after the war; after all, it was on the basis of such visions that a lot of real constructive work was done, and Churchill lost sympathy by being openly impatient of them. I began to be a bit ashamed of the harsh \"realism\" of \"The Twenty Years' Crisis\" and in 1940–41 wrote the highly Utopian \"Conditions of Peace\" [1942]-a sort of liberal Utopia, mixed with a little socialism but very little Marxism. It was my most popular book to date because it caught the current mood. But it was pretty feeble.\"\n\nIn 1945 during a lecture series entitled \"The Soviet Impact on the Western World\", which were published as a book in 1946, Carr argued that \"The trend away from individualism and towards totalitarianism is everywhere unmistakable\", that Marxism was the by far the most successful type of totalitarianism as proved by Soviet industrial growth and the Red Army's role in defeating Germany and that only the \"blind and incurable ignored these trends\". During the same lectures, Carr called democracy in the Western world a sham, which permitted a capitalist ruling class to exploit the majority, and praised the Soviet Union as offering real democracy. Carr claimed that Soviet social policies were far more progressive than Western social policies, and argued democracy was more about social equality than political rights. During the same series of lectures, Carr argued that:\"It was Marshal Stalin who, consciously or unconsciously usurping Woodrow Wilson's role in the previous war, once more placed democracy in the forefront of Allied war aims.\" Carr went on to argue that:\"The degree of moral favour for the social purposes of Soviet policy which is, according to all observers, generated among the citizens of the Soviet Union is an answer to those critics who used to argue that Marxism could never be successful because it lacked moral appeal.\" Finally, Carr claimed that:\"The social and economic system of the Soviet Union, offering-as it does-almost unlimited possibilities of internal development, is hardly subject to those specific stimuli which dictated expansionist policies to capitalist Britain in the 19th century...there is nothing in Soviet policy so far to suggest that the east-west movement is likely to take the form of armed aggression or military conquest. The peaceful penetration of the Western world by ideas emanating from the Soviet Union has been, and seems likely to remain, a far important and conspicuous symptom of the new East-West movement. \"Ex Oriente Lux\".\" One of Carr's leading associates, the British historian R.W. Davies, was later to write that Carr's view of the Soviet Union as expressed in \"The Soviet Impact on the Western World\" was a rather glossy, idealised picture that owed much to war-time propaganda about \"our gallant Russian ally\", and to Carr's very considerable faith in the Soviet Union as offering a superior social system to the West.\n\nIn 1946, Carr started living with Joyce Marion Stock Forde, who was to remain his common law wife until 1964. In 1947, Carr was forced to resign from his position at Aberystwyth. The Marxist historian Christopher Hill wrote that in the late 1940s \"it was thought, or pretended to be thought, that any irregularity in one's matrimonial position made it impossible for one to be a good scholar or teacher.\" In November 1946, Carr was involved in a radio debate with Arnold J. Toynbee on Britain's position in the world. Though Carr expressed support for Toynbee's idea of British neutrality in the emerging Cold War, Carr rejected his idea that Britain \"liquidate without too many qualms our political commitments and economic outposts in other continents\". Carr declared that \"The trouble about politics and economics is that if you run away from them they are apt to run after you-especially if you occupy as Britain does, a conspicuous and coveted and vulnerable position\". In the late 1940s, Carr started to become increasingly influenced by Marxism. His name was on Orwell's list, a list of people which George Orwell prepared in March 1949 for the Information Research Department, a propaganda unit set up at the Foreign Office by the Labour government. Orwell considered these people to have pro-communist leanings and therefore to be inappropriate to write for the IRD.\n\nIn May–June 1951, Carr delivered a series of speeches on British radio entitled \"The New Society\", that attacked capitalism as a great social evil and advocated a planned economy with the British state controlling every aspect of British economic life. Carr was a reclusive man who few knew well, but his circle of close friends included Isaac Deutscher, A. J. P. Taylor, Harold Laski and Karl Mannheim. Carr was especially close to Deutscher. Deutscher's widow was later to write of the deep, if unlikely friendship that was stuck between:\"a self-educated, former member of the Polish Communist Party – Marxist by conviction, Jewish by origin – who was a refugee from Hitler and Stalin stranded in London; and, on the other side, an English historian who was an unmistakable product of Cambridge, a former member of the Foreign Office, schooled in a diplomatic service famous as a bastion of British traditionalism\".\n\nIn 1948, Carr condemned British acceptance of an American loan in 1946 as the marking the effective end of British independence. Carr wrote that:\"The acceptance of the American loan with the conditions attached to it in 1946 was the turning point at which Britain ceased to control her own economic destinies. It is still arguable that the conditions should have been rejected and the consequences of rejection faced. The results of acceptance were perhaps psychological even more than practical. But the practical results should not be ignored. Through the conditions were never fully enforced, the fiasco of sterling convertibility in the summer of 1947 was extremely costly; and American objections to European economic union continued well into 1947-by which time the practical difficulties of its realization had enormously increased...The American loan opened the way to a silent infiltration of American influence into almost every walk of British public life. It is today almost impossible to imagine the appointment to any important public post (including posts in the Armed Forces and in the civil service as well as in industry) of anyone not \"persona grata\" in corresponding American circles. To be pro-American pays handsome dividends: to be known as anti-American is a bar to promotion to a responsible position in any walk of life. Worst of all, British dependence on the United States is now taken for granted in quite broad sections of the population and had [sic] bred a widespread sense of hopelessness and incapacity to help ourselves, so that American help and American patronage which were intended to provide a stimulus to increased productivity in Britain are in danger of producing the opposite result.\". Carr went on to write that the best course for Britain was to seek neutrality in the Cold War and that \"peace at any price must be the foundation of British policy\". Carr ended by writing:\"It may be that the question whether war breaks out between Russia and America affects us far more than the question whether we can increase the productivity of labour or improve the organization of industry or the distribution of consumer goods. But the point is that we can hardly do anything about the first question and a great deal about the second\". Carr took a great deal of hope from the Soviet–Yugoslav split of 1948. In an essay entitled \"Spectre of Communism\" published in the \"Times\" on 2 July 1948, Carr wrote:\"It is this identification of Communist ideology with Soviet power, pointed by the looser, but none the less patent, defence of western democratic ideas and capitalist practices with the power of the United States, which makes the present international conjuncture so dark and menacing...That the two strongest Powers in the world today have become the centres of groups of nations formed on the basis not of old-fashioned alliances of power politics, but of contending views on the way in which society should be organized, enhances the dangers of conflict in a way which no contemporary observer can ignore. It would be a striking reversal of existing trends if Yugoslavia succeeded in vindicating for herself either a position of independent authority within the Soviet alliance or a right to stand alone outside it\"\n\nThroughout the remainder of Carr's life after 1941, his outlook was basically sympathetic towards Communism and its achievements. In the early 1950s, when Carr sat on the editorial board of the Chatham House, he attempted to block the publication of the manuscript that eventually became \"The Origins of the Communist Autocracy\" by Leonard Schapiro on the grounds that the subject of repression in the Soviet Union was not a serious topic for a historian. As interest in the subject in Communism grew, Carr largely abandoned international relations as a field of study. In part, Carr's turn away from international relations was due to his increasing scepticism about the subject. In 1959, Carr wrote to his friend and protégé Arno J. Mayer, shortly after he began teaching international relations at Harvard warning against attempts to turn international relations into a separate subject apart from history, which Carr viewed as a foolish attempt to sever a sub-discipline of history by turning it into a discipline of its own. In 1956, Carr did not comment about the Soviet suppression of the Hungarian Uprising while at the same time condemning the Suez War.\n\nIn his few books about international relations after 1938, despite a change in emphasis, Carr's pro-German views regarding inter-war international relations continued. For an example, in his 1955 book \"International Relations Between the Two World Wars, 1919–1939\", Carr claimed that the German default on timber reparations in December 1922, which sparked the 1923 Ruhr crisis, was very small and explained that the French reaction in occupying the Ruhr was grossly disproportionate to the offence. As the American historian Sally Marks noted, even in 1955 this was a long-discredited pro-German \"myth\", and that in fact the German default was enormous, and Germany had been defaulting on a large scale and a frequent basis since 1921.\n\nIn 1966, Carr left Forde and married the historian Betty Behrens. That same year, Carr wrote in an essay that in India where \"liberalism is professed and to some extent practised, millions of people would die without American charity. In China, where liberalism is rejected, people somehow get fed. Which is the more cruel and oppressive regime?\" One of Carr's critics, the British historian Robert Conquest, commented that Carr did not appear to be familiar with recent Chinese history, because, judging from that remark, Carr seemed to be ignorant of the millions of Chinese who had starved to death during the Great Leap Forward. In 1961, Carr published an anonymous and very favourable review of his friend A. J. P. Taylor's contentious book \"The Origins of the Second World War\", which caused much controversy. In the late 1960s, Carr was one of the few British professors to be supportive of the New Left student protestors, who, he hoped, might bring about a socialist revolution in Britain. In a 1969 introduction to the collection of essays, \"Heretics and Renegades and Other Essays\" by Carr's friend, Isaac Deutscher, Carr endorsed Deutscher's attack on George Orwell's novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" on the grounds that \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" could not be an accurate picture of the Soviet Union as Orwell had never visited that state.\n\nCarr exercised wide influence in the field of Soviet studies and international relations. The extent of Carr's influence could be seen in the 1974 \"festschrift\" in his honour, entitled \"Essays in Honour of E.H. Carr\" ed. Chimen Abramsky and Beryl Williams. The contributors included Sir Isaiah Berlin, Arthur Lehning, G. A. Cohen, Monica Partridge, Beryl Williams, Eleonore Breuning, D. C. Watt, Mary Holdsworth, Roger Morgan, Alec Nove, John Erickson, Michael Kaser, R. W. Davies, Moshe Lewin, Maurice Dobb, and Lionel Kochan. The contributors examined such topics as the social views of Georges Sorel, Alexander Herzen and Mikhail Bakunin; the effect of the Revolution of 1905 on Russian foreign policy, Count Ulrich von Brokdorff-Rantzau and German–Soviet relations; and developments in the Soviet military, education, economy and agriculture in the 1920s–1930s. Another admirer of Carr is the American Marxist historian Arno J. Mayer, who has stated that his work on international relations owes much to Carr.\n\nDuring his last years, Carr continued to maintain his optimism in a better future, in spite of what he regarded as grave setbacks. In a 1978 interview in \"The New Left Review\", Carr called capitalism a crazy economic system that was doomed to die. In the same interview, Carr complained about what he called \"obsessive hatred and fear of Russia\", stating \"an outburst of national hysteria on this scale is surely the symptom of a sick society\". In a 1980 letter to his friend Tamara Deutscher, Carr wrote that he felt that the government of Margaret Thatcher had forced \"the forces of Socialism\" in Britain into a \"full retreat\". In the same letter to Deutscher, Carr wrote that \"Socialism cannot be obtained through reformism, i.e. through the machinery of bourgeois democracy\". Carr went on to decry disunity on the Left, and wrote:\"What worries me is not only what is happening in this country today, but my preoccupation with what happened in the 30s. The hard-liners denied that Brüning was a lesser evil than Hitler, and refused to co-operate with the Social Democrats. I don't know that in the draft chapters [of \"Twilight of the Comintern\"] I have specifically attacked this view, but that is certainly the slant of the whole narrative. Trotsky denounced this line from the start, and in the last forty years I cannot think of any writer who has defended it. Have we all been wrong? And should we really deny that Callaghan is a lesser evil than Thatcher?<br><br>Another thought. Lenin in the 1920s wanted the Communists 'to help the MacDonalds and the Snowdens to defeat the Lloyd Georges and the Churchills'. Are Callaghan and Healey so much worse than M[acDonald] and S[nowden]?\" Though Carr regarded the abandonment of Maoism in China in the late 1970s as a regressive development, he saw opportunities, and wrote to his stock broker in 1978: \"a lot of people, as well as the Japanese, are going to benefit from the opening up of trade with China. Have you any ideas?\". In one of his last letters to Tamara Deutscher, shortly before his death in 1982, Carr expressed a great deal of dismay at the state of the world, writing that \"The left is foolish and the right vicious.\" Carr wrote to Deutscher that the sort of socialism envisioned by Marx could never be achieved via the means of democracy, but complained that the working class in Britain were not capable of staging the revolution needed to destroy British capitalism. Carr criticised what he regarded as an excessive preoccupation in the West with the human rights situation in the Soviet Union, blasted the European Left for naïveté, and Eurocommunism as a useless watered-down version of Communism. Carr wrote to Deutscher:\"What can one think of \"Eurocommunists\" who have produced no programme of their own, but are prepared at the drop of a hat to rub shoulders with declared counter-revolutionaries (anti-Lenin, anti-Marx) and Cold Warriors? This must be meat and drink to the hardliners in the Kremlin. Back to the \"united front from Trotsky to Chamberlain?\" At least Trotsky never did that. Where are we going? There are too many war-mongers around the world at present for comfort. Cannot the New Left go back to Nuclear Disarmament? Also perhaps a bit naïve, but healthier.\" Carr ended his letter by saying that he did not believe that the British proletariat, or any of the other Western proletariats, had the willingness and/or the capacity to stage the sort of revolutions that Marx had predicated, and that because of his lack of faith in the revolutionary potential of the Western working classes, he could not be a Marxist. Beside the issue about the non-imminence of a workers' uprising in the West, Carr stated that he was in otherwise complete agreement with all of the main tenets of Marxism. In a letter to Deutscher, Carr wrote he had been convinced of the \"bankruptcy of capitalism\" since the 1930s, but that:\"It would be fair to say that I have always been more interested in Marxism as a method of revealing hidden springs of thought and action, and debunking the logical and moralistic facade, erected around them, than in the Marxist analysis of the decline of capitalism. Capitalism was clearly on the way out, and the precise mechanism of its downfall did not seem to me all that interesting.\". Carr added that he \"could not see the Western proletariat, the progeny of Western bourgeois capitalism, as the bearer of the world revolution in its next stage\". Shortly before his death, Carr wrote that he believed: \"I cannot indeed foresee for western society in anything like its present form any prospect but decline and decay, perhaps but not necessarily ending in dramatic collapse. But I believe that new forces and movements, whose shape we cannot yet guess, are germinating beneath the surface, here or elsewhere. That is my unverifiable Utopia, and I suppose I should call it \"socialist\" and I am to this extent Marxist. But Marx did not define the content of socialism except in a few Utopian phrases; and nor can I\".\n\nA latter day controversy concerning Carr surrounds the question of whether he was an anti-Semite. Carr's critics point to his being champion of two anti-Semitic dictators, Hitler and Stalin, in succession, his opposition to Israel, and to most of Carr's opponents, such as Sir Geoffrey Elton, Leonard Schapiro, Sir Karl Popper, Bertram Wolfe, Richard Pipes, Adam Ulam, Leopold Labedz, Sir Isaiah Berlin, and Walter Laqueur, being Jewish. Carr's defenders, such as Jonathan Haslam, have argued against the charge of anti-Semitism, noting that Carr had many Jewish friends (including such erstwhile intellectual sparring partners such as Berlin and Namier), that his last wife Betty Behrens was Jewish and that his support for Nazi Germany in the 1930s and the Soviet Union in the 1940s–50s was in spite rather than because of anti-Semitism in those states.\n\nAfter the war, Carr was a fellow of Balliol College, Oxford, and then Trinity College, where he published most of his popular works—\"A History of Soviet Russia\" and \"What Is History?\" He remained at Trinity College until his death. He was a tutor in Politics at Balliol College, Oxford from 1953 to 1955, when he became a fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. In the 1950s, Carr was well known as an outspoken admirer of the Soviet Union. Carr's writings include his \"History of Soviet Russia\" (14 vol., 1950–78). During World War II, Carr was favourably impressed with what he regarded as the extraordinary heroic performance of the Soviet people, and towards the end of 1944 Carr decided to write a complete history of the Soviet Russia from 1917 comprising all aspects of social, political and economic history to explain how the Soviet Union withstood the German invasion. The resulting work was his 14 volume \"History of Soviet Russia\", which took the story up to 1929.\n\nCarr's friend and close associate, the British historian R. W. Davies, was to write that Carr belonged to the anti-Cold-War school of history, which regarded the Soviet Union as the major progressive force in the world, and the Cold War as a case of American aggression against the Soviet Union. Carr criticised those Anglophone historians who, he felt, had unfairly judged the Soviet Union by the cultural norms of Britain and the United States. In 1960, Carr wrote that \"much of what has been written in the English speaking countries during the last ten years about the Soviet Union\" has been influenced by Western scholars' inability to understand the country.\n\nCarr began his \"magnum opus\" by arguing that the 1917 October Revolution was a \"proletarian revolution\" forced on the Bolsheviks. Carr argued that \"it was the masses who drove their hesitating and temporising leaders down the path of revolution.\"\n\nIn Carr's view, Soviet history went through three periods in the inter-war era and was personified by the change of leadership from Vladimir Lenin to Joseph Stalin. After an initial period of chaos, Carr wrote that the dissolution of the Russian Constituent Assembly in January 1918 was the last \"tearing asunder of the veil of bourgeois constitutionalism\", and that henceforward, the Bolsheviks would rule Russia their own way. Carr, like many others, argued that the emergence of Russia from a backward peasant economy to a leading industrial power was the most important event of the 20th century. The first part of a \"History of Soviet Russia\" comprised three volumes entitled \"The Bolshevik Revolution\", published in 1950, 1952, and 1953, and traced Soviet history from 1917 to 1922. The second part was intended to comprise three volumes called \"The Struggle for Power\", which was intended to cover 1922–28, but Carr instead decided to publish a single volume labelled \"The Interregnum\" that covered the events of 1923–24, and another four volumes entitled \"Socialism in One Country\", which took the story up to 1926. The final volumes in the series were entitled \"The Foundations of the Planned Economy\", which covered the years until 1929. Originally, Carr had planned to take the series up to Operation Barbarossa in 1941 and the Soviet victory of 1945, but his death in 1982 put an end to the project.\n\nCarr argued that Soviet history went through three periods in the 1917–45 era. In the first phrase was the war communism era (1917–21), which saw much rationing, economic production focused into huge centres of manufacturing, critical services and supplies being sold at either set prices or for free, and to a large extent a return to a barter economy. Carr contended that the problems in the agrarian sector forced the abandonment of war communism in 1921, and its replacement by the New Economic Policy (NEP). During the same period saw what Carr called one of Lenin's \"astonishing achievements\", namely the gathering together of nearly all of the former territories of Imperial Russia (with the notable exceptions of Finland, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia) under the banner of the Soviet Union. In the NEP period (1921–28), Carr maintained that the Soviet economy became a mixed capitalist-socialist one with peasants after fulfilling quotas to the state being allowed to sell their surplus on the open market, and industrialists being permitted to produce and sell agricultural and light industrial goods.\n\nCarr contended that the post-Lenin succession struggle after 1924 was more about personal disputes than ideological quarrels. In Carr's opinion, \"personalities rather than principles were at stake\". Carr argued that the victory of Stalin over Leon Trotsky in the succession struggle was inevitable because Stalin was better suited to the new order emerging in the Soviet Union in the 1920s than Trotsky. Carr stated \"Trotsky was a hero of the revolution. He fell when the heroic age was over.\" Carr argued that Stalin had stumbled into the doctrine of \"Socialism in One Country\" more by accident than by design in 1925, but argued that Stalin was swift to grasp how effective the doctrine was as a weapon to beat Trotsky with. Carr wrote \"It was easy, on the basis of the new doctrine, to depict Stalin as the true expositor of Bolshevism and Leninism and his opponents as the heirs of those who had resisted Lenin and denied the Bolshevik creed in the past. Unwittingly Stalin had forged for himself an instrument of enormous power. Once forged, he was quick to discover its strength, and wielded it with masterful skill and ruthlessness.\"\n\nBeside reviewing the politics and economics of the 1920s, Carr also devoted considerable space to the Soviet constitution of 1922, the relationship between the Soviet Socialist Republics and Moscow, efforts to \"revitalize\" the \"soviets\" (councils), the development of the Red Army and the OGPU. Writing of the OGPU, Carr noted that since the Bolsheviks had eliminated all of their enemies outside of the Party by the mid-1920s: \"The repressive powers of the OGPU were henceforth directed primarily against opposition in the party, which was the only effective form of opposition in the state.\" Reflecting his background as a diplomat and scholar on international relations, Carr provided detailed treatment of foreign affairs with a focus on both the Narkomindel and the Comintern. In particular, Carr examined the relationship between the Soviet Communist Party and the other Communist parties around the world, the Comintern's structure, the Soviet reaction to the Locarno Treaties, and the early efforts (ultimately successful in 1949) to promote a revolution in China.\n\nThe third phrase was the period of the Five-Year Plans beginning with the first five-year plan in 1928, which saw the Soviet state promoting the growth of heavy industry, eliminating private enterprise, collectivising agriculture, and of quotas for industrial production being set in Moscow. In Carr's opinion, the changes wrought by the First Five Year Plan were a positive development. Carr argued that the economic system that existed during the N.E.P. period was highly inefficient, and that any economic system based on planning by the state was superior to what Carr saw as the disorganised chaos of capitalism. Carr accepted the Soviet claim that the so-called \"kulaks\" existed as a distinct class, that they were a negative social force, and as such, the \"dekulakisation\" campaign that saw at least 2 million alleged \"kulaks\" deported to the Gulag in 1930–32 was a necessary measure that improved the lives of the Soviet peasantry. R.W. Davies, Carr's associate and co-writer on the \"History of Soviet Russia\", expressed some doubts to Carr about whatever the \"kulaks\" actually existed, and thought the term was more an invention of Soviet propaganda than a reflection of the social conditions in the Soviet countryside.\n\nAccompanying these social-economic changes were the changes in the leadership. Carr argued that Lenin saw himself as the leader of an elite band of revolutionaries who sought to give power to the people and wanted a world revolution. By contrast, Carr claimed that Stalin was a bureaucratic leader who concentrated power in his own hands, ruled in a ruthless fashion, carried a policy of \"revolution from above\", and by promoting a merger of Russian nationalism and Communism cared more for the interests of the Soviet Union than for the world Communist movement. However, Carr argued that Stalin's achievements in the making the Soviet Union a great industrial power by and large outweighed any of the actions for which he is commonly criticised. Carr claimed that Stalin played both the roles of dictator and emancipator simultaneously, and argued that this reflected less the man than the times and place in which he lived. Carr wrote that: \"Stalin's personality, combined with the primitive and cruel traditions of the Russian bureaucracy, imparted to the revolution from above a particularly brutal quality.\" \n\nA book that was not part of the \"History of Soviet Russia\" series, though closely related due to common research in the same archives, was Carr's 1951 book \"German-Soviet Relations Between the Two World Wars, 1919–1939\". In that book, Carr blamed British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain for the German-Soviet Non-Aggression Pact of 1939, accusing him of deliberately snubbing Stalin's offers of an alliance. As such, the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact was the only policy the Soviets could have followed in the summer of 1939. Carr argued that the British \"guarantee\" of Poland given on 31 March 1939 was a foolhardy move that indicated Chamberlain's preference for an alliance with Poland as opposed to an alliance with the Soviet Union. Carr argued that the Anglo-French delegation sent to travel on Moscow by ship in August 1939 to negotiate were unimpressive diplomats and their unwillingness and inability to pressure the Poles to grant to transit rights to the Red Army reflected a fundamental lack of interest in reaching an alliance with the Soviet Union. By contrast, Carr argued that the willingness of the German Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop to come to Moscow anytime by plane with full powers to negotiate whatever was necessary to secure a German-Soviet alliance reflected the deep German interest in reaching an understanding with the Soviets in 1939. According to Carr, the \"bastion\" created by means of the Pact, \"was and could only be, a line of defence against potential German attack.\" An important advantage (projected by Carr) was that \"if Soviet Russia had eventually to fight Hitler, the Western Powers would already be involved.\"\n\nIn 1955, a major scandal that damaged Carr's reputation as a historian of the Soviet Union occurred when he wrote the introduction to \"Notes for a Journal\", the supposed memoir of the former Soviet Foreign Commissar Maxim Litvinov that was shortly thereafter exposed as a KGB forgery. The American historian Barry Rubin argued it can be easily established that \"Notes\" was an anti-Semitic forgery in that Litvinov was portrayed as a proud Jew whereas the real Litvinov did not see himself as Jewish at all, and more importantly the \"Notes\" showed Litvinov together with other Soviet officials of Jewish origin working behind the scenes for Jewish interests in the Soviet Union. Rubin also noted other improbabilities in \"Notes for a Journal\" such as having Litvinov meeting regularly with rabbis to further Jewish interests. Rubin argued that this portrayal of Litvinov reflected Soviet anti-Semitism, and that Carr was amiss in not recognising \"Notes for a Journal\" as the anti-Semitic forgery it was.\n\nThe first volume of \"A History of Soviet Russia\" published in 1950 was criticised by some historians, most notably the British Marxist historian Isaac Deutscher (who was a close friend) as being too concerned with institutional development of the Soviet state, and for being impersonal and dry, capturing little of the tremendous emotions of the times. Likewise, Carr was criticised from both left and right for his downplaying of the importance of ideology for the Bolsheviks, and his argument that the Bolsheviks thought only in terms of Russia rather than the entire world. In a 1955 article, Deutscher argued that:\"Perhaps the main weakness of Mr Carr's conception is that he sees the Russian Revolution as virtually a national phenomenon only...he treats it as a historical process essentially national in character and self-sufficient within the national framework. He thinks in terms of statecraft and statecraft is national. His Lenin is a Russian super-Bismarck.\" Despite his criticism, Deutscher ended his review by writing \"It is Mr Carr's enduring and distinguished merit that he is the first genuine historian of the Soviet regime.\" Echoing Deutscher's criticism, the American historian Bertram Wolfe contended in 1955 that:\"Mr Carr believes that the revolution was right for Russia. But he cannot quite make himself believe that in the matter of world revolution, this power-concentrated, dogmatic man [Lenin] was in deadly earnest.\" It was often observed that Carr had little sympathy towards revolutionaries, presenting the pre-1917 Bolsheviks as somewhat comic and ridiculous figures. Walter Laqueur noted that Carr had a strong preference for Lenin the politician attempting to build a new order in Russia after 1917 vs. Lenin the revolutionary working to destroy the old order before 1917 The scope and scale of \"History of Soviet Russia\" was illustrated in a letter Carr wrote to Tamara Deutscher, where in one volume Carr wished to examine Soviet relations with all of the Western nations between 1926 and 1929, relations between the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and the Western Communist parties; efforts to promote a \"World Revolution\"; the work and the \"machinery\" of the Comintern and the Profintern, Communist thinking on the \"Negro Question\" in the United States, and the history of Communist parties in China, Outer Mongolia, Turkey, Egypt, Afghanistan, and the Dutch East Indies.\n\nA recurring theme of Carr's writings on Soviet history was his hostility towards those who argued that Soviet history could have taken different courses from what it did. In a 1974 book review of the American historian Stephen F. Cohen's biography of Nikolai Bukharin published in the \"Times Literary Supplement\", Carr lashed out against Cohen for advocating the thesis that Bukharin represented a better alternative to Stalin. Carr dismissed Cohen's argument that the NEP was a viable alternative to the First Five Year Plan, and contemptuously labelled Bukharin a weak-willed and a rather pathetic figure who was both destined and deserved to lose to Stalin in the post-Lenin succession struggle. Carr ended his review with the scornful remark that since the American left could produce nothing but \"losers\" like George McGovern, so it was natural that an American leftist like Cohen would sympathise with Bukharin, whom Carr likewise regarded as a great \"loser\" of history.\n\nCarr's last book, 1982's \"The Twilight of the Comintern\", though not officially a part of the \"History of Soviet Russia\" series, was regarded by Carr as the completion of the series. In this book, Carr examined the response of the Comintern to fascism in 1930–1935. Carr maintained that the Comintern was divided into two fractions in the early 1930s. One fraction headed by the Hungarian Communist Béla Kun preferred the policy of treating the non-communist left as \"disguised fascists\", whereas another fraction headed by the Bulgarian Communist Georgi Dimitrov supported a policy of building popular fronts with socialists and liberals against fascism. Carr argued that the adoption of the Popular Front policy in 1935 had been forced on Stalin by pressure from Communist parties abroad, especially the French Communist Party Carr contended that the 7th Congress of the Comintern in 1935 was essentially the end of the Comintern since it marked the abandonment of world revolution as a goal, and instead subordinated the cause of Communism and world revolution towards the goal of building popular fronts against fascism Another related book that Carr was unable to complete before his death, and was published posthumously in 1984, was \"The Comintern and the Spanish Civil War\".\n\nThe \"History of Soviet Russia\" volumes met with a mixed reception. The \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" in 1970 described the \"History of Soviet Russia\" series as simply \"magisterial\". The British historian Chimen Abramsky praised Carr as the world's foremost historian of the Soviet Union who displayed an astonishing knowledge of the subject. The Canadian historian John Keep called the series \"A towering scholarly monument; in its shadow the rest of us are but pygmies.\" Deutscher called \"A History of Soviet Russia\" \"a truly outstanding achievement\". The left-wing British historian A. J. P. Taylor called \"A History of Soviet Russia\" the most fair and best series of books ever written on Soviet history. Taylor was later to call Carr \"an Olympian among historians, a Goethe in range and spirit\". The American journalist Harrison Salisbury called Carr \"one of the half dozen greatest specialists in Soviet affairs and in Soviet-German relations\". The British academic Michael Cox praised the \"History of Soviet Russia\" series as \"an amazing construction: almost pyramid-like...in its architectural audacity\" The British historian John Barber argued that \"History of Soviet Russia\" series through a scrupulous and detailed survey of the evidence \"transformed\" the study of Soviet history in the West. The British historian Hugh Seton-Watson called Carr \"an object of admiration and gratitude\" for his work in Soviet studies The South African born British Marxist historian Hillel Ticktin praised Carr as an honest historian of the Soviet Union and accused all of his critics such as Norman Stone, Richard Pipes, and Leopold Labedz of being \"Cold War\" historians who betoken to McCarthyism criticised Carr for being \"for being on the side of the people\". Ticktin went to label Carr's critics \"an entirely unsavory collection, not unconnected with serving the needs of official British and American foreign policy\" who were \"closely identified with a discredited right-wing politics...\". In 1983, four American historians, namely Geoff Eley, W. Rosenberg, Moshe Lewin and Ronald Suny in a joint article in the \"London Review of Books\" wrote of the \"grandeur\" of Carr's work and his \"extraordinary pioneering quality\". The four went on to write:\"In the scope of his work Carr went where no one had gone before and where only a few have really gone since. He mapped the territory of Soviet history in the 1920s and delivered an agenda of questions which will be pursued for the rest of the 20th century...Carr's analysis is now an indispensable starting point for understanding the dynamics of Stalinism\". One of Carr's students, the British historian Jonathan Haslam, called Carr a victim of British \"McCarthyism\" who was unjustly punished for his willingness to defend and praise the Soviet Union. The British Marxist historian Eric Hobsbawm wrote that Carr's \"History of Soviet Russia\" \"constitutes, with Joseph Needham's \"Science and Civilisation in China\", the most remarkable effort of single-handed historical scholarship undertaken in Britain within living memory\". The American historian Peter Wiles called the \"History of Soviet Russia\" \"one of the great historiographical enterprises of our day\" and wrote of Carr's \"immensely impressive\" work The American Marxist historian Arno J. Mayer wrote that \"the \"History of Soviet Russia\"...established E.H. Carr not only as the towering giant among Western specialists of recent Russian history, but certainly also as the leading British historian of his generation\". Most unusually for a book by a Western historian, \"A History of Soviet Russia\" met with warily favourable reviews by Soviet historians. Normally, any works by Western historians, no matter how favourable to Communism, met with hostile reviews in the Soviet Union, and there was even a brand of polemical literature by Soviet historians attacking so-called \"bourgeois historians\" under the xenophobic grounds that only Soviet historians were capable of understanding the Soviet past\".\n\nThe \"History of Soviet Russia\" series were not translated into Russian and published in the Soviet Union until 1990. A Soviet journal commented in 1991 that Carr was \"almost unknown to a broad Soviet readership\", though all Soviet historians were aware of his work, and most of them had considerable respect for Carr, they had been unable to say so until \"Perestroika\". Those Soviet historians who specialised in rebutting the \"bourgeois falsifiers\" as Western historians were so labelled in the Soviet Union attacked Carr for writing that Soviet countryside was in chaos after 1917, but praised Carr as one of the \"few bourgeois authors\" who told the \"truth\" about Soviet economic achievements. Through right up until \"glasnost\" period, Carr was considered a \"bourgeois falsifier\" in the Soviet Union, Carr was praised as a British historian who taken \"certain steps\" towards Marxism, and whose \"History of Soviet Russia\" was described as \"fairly objective\" and \"one of the most fundamental works in bourgeois Sovietology\". In a preface to the Soviet edition of \"The History of Soviet Russia\" in 1990, the Soviet historian Albert Nenarokov wrote in his lifetime Carr had been 'automatically been ranked with the falsifiers\", but in fact \"The History of Soviet Russia\" was a \"scrupulous, professionally conscientious work\". Nenarokov called Carr a \"honest, objective scholar, espousing liberal principles and attempting on the basis of an enormous documentary base to create a satisfactory picture of the epoch he was considering and those involved in it, to assist a sober and realistic perception of the USSR and a better understanding of the great social processes of the twentieth century\". However, Nenarokov expressed some concern about Carr's use of Stalinist language such as calling Bukharin part of the \"right deviation\" in the Party without the use of the quotation marks. Nenarokov took the view that Carr had too narrowly reduced Soviet history after 1924 down to a choice of either Stalin or Trotsky, arguing that Bukharin was a better, more humane alternative to both Stalin and Trotsky.\n\nThe pro-Soviet slant in Carr's \"The History of Soviet Russia\" attracted some controversy. The American writer Max Eastman in a 1950 review of the first volume of \"A History of Soviet Russia\" called Carr as \"a mild-quiet-hearted bourgeois with a vicarious taste for revolutionary violence\" In 1951, the Austrian journalist Franz Borkenau wrote in the \"Der Monat\" newspaper: \"Human suffering he seems to say, is not a historical factor; Carr belongs to those very cold people who always believe they think and act with the iciest calculation and therefore fail to understand why they are mistaken in their calculations time and time again\". In a 1955 review in \"Commentary\", Bertram Wolfe accused Carr of systemically taking on Lenin's point of view in \"History of Soviet Russia\" volumes and of being unwilling to consider other perspectives on Russian history. In 1962 the British historian Hugh Trevor-Roper argued that Carr's identification with the \"victors\" of history meant that Carr saw Stalin as historically important, and that Carr had neither time nor sympathy for the millions of Stalin's victims. The Anglo-American historian Robert Conquest argued that Carr took the official reasons for the launching of the First Five Year Plan too seriously, and argued that the \"crisis\" of the late 1920s was more the result of Soviet misunderstanding of economics than an \"objective\" economic crisis forced on Stalin. Furthermore, Conquest maintained that Carr's opponents such as Leonard Schapiro, Adam Ulam, Bertram Wolfe, Robert C. Tucker and Richard Pipes had a far better understanding of Soviet history than did Carr. The Polish-born American historian Richard Pipes wrote that the essential questions of Soviet history were: \"Who were the Bolsheviks, what did they want, why did some follow them and others resist? What was the intellectual and moral atmosphere in which all these events occurred?\", and went on to note that Carr failed to pose these questions, let alone answer them. Pipes was later to compare Carr's single paragraph dismissal in the \"History of Soviet Russia\" of the 1921 famine as unimportant (because there were no sources for the death toll that Carr deemed trustworthy) with Holocaust denial.\n\nThe Polish Kremlinologist Leopold Labedz criticised Carr for taking the claims of the Soviet government too seriously. Labedz wrote that:\"He [Carr] tended to confine himself to the penumbra of official formulations and of ideological formulas which always concealed, rather than revealed, real Soviet life\". Labedz argued that what he regarded as Carr's worship of \"kratos\" (power) led him to engage in an apologia for Stalin by ignoring facts that placed Stalin in an unfavourable light and by highlighting those facts that placed Stalin in a positive light. Labedz noted it only after 17 years after the first volume of the \"History of Soviet Russia\" series was published did Carr criticise Stalin in volume 8 of the series, albeit only once and in a veiled form. Labedz went on to argue that Carr's decision to end the \"History of Soviet Russia\" series at 1929 reflected not the lack of documentary material as Carr claimed, but rather an inability and unwillingness to confront the horrors of Stalin's Soviet Union. Labedz drew an unflattering comparison between Carr and Edward Gibbon Labedz argued that:\"To compare Carr's approach with Gibbon's is to register the contrast between his moral indifference and Gibbon's human concern, his blinkered pedantry and Gibbon's sovereign achievement in the sifting and validation of evidence.\" Labedz was very critical of Carr's handling of sources, arguing that Carr was too inclined to accept official Soviet documents at face value, and unwilling to admit to systematic falsification of the historical record under Stalin. Finally, Labedz took Carr to task over what Labedz regarded as his tendency to white-wash Soviet crimes \"behind an abstract formula which often combines \"progressive\" stereotypes with the lexicon of Soviet terminology\". The British historian Norman Stone argued that Carr was guilty of writing in a bland style meant to hide his pro-Soviet sympathies. Writing of a \"History of Soviet Russia\" in 1983, Stone commented that: \"Much of the book concerns economics, a subject on which Carr was hardly an expert. The lack of definitive point in the book...makes it dull and unrevealing. Like Carr himself it peters out...Carr's \"History\" is not a history of the Soviet Union, but effectively of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. Even then, much of it is the kind of unreconstructed Stalinist version that could not now see the light of day in Russia itself...I am nearly tempted to exclaim that no more useless set of volumes has ever masqueraded as a classic. Carr's real talent lay in mathematics...From the mathematical spirit he took a quality not so much of abstraction as of autism which was carried over into his historical work. The result is a trail of devastation.\" Stone later wrote about Carr in 2004 that: \"Tocqueville says somewhere that if you approve of dictatorship for a people, it means you despise the people. Carr did-he said at the end of his life that all those dead peasants meant progress. As Orwell said, it's all very well saying you can't make an omelette without breaking some eggs, but where's the omelette?\"\n\nThe American historian Walter Laqueur argued that the \"History of Soviet Russia\" volumes were a dubious historical source that for the most part excluded mention of the more unpleasant aspects of Soviet life, reflecting Carr's pro-Soviet tendencies. Laqueur commented that Carr called Stalin a ruthless tyrant in his 1979 book \"The Russian Revolution\", and noted that he almost totally refrained from expressing any criticism of Stalin in all 14 volumes of the \"History of Soviet Russia\" series. Likewise, Laqueur contended that Carr excelled at irony, and that writing panegyrics to the Soviet Union was not his forte. In Laqueur's opinion, if Carr is to be remembered by future generations, it will be for books like \"Dostoyevsky\", \"The Romantic Exiles\" and \"Bakunin\", and his \"History of Soviet Russia\" will besmirch the fine reputation created by those books. A major source of criticism of a \"History of Soviet Russia\" was Carr's decision to ignore the Russian Civil War under the grounds it was unimportant, and likewise to his devoting only a few lines to the Kronstadt mutiny of 1921 since Carr argued it only a minor event. Laqueur commented in his opinion that Carr's ignoring the Russian Civil War while paying an inordinate amount of attention to such subjects as the relations between the Swedish Communist Party and the Soviet Communist Party and Soviet diplomatic relations with Outer Mongolia in the 1920s left the \"History of Soviet Russia\" very unbalanced.\n\nCarr is also famous today for his work of historiography, \"What Is History?\" (1961), a book based upon his series of G. M. Trevelyan lectures, delivered at the University of Cambridge between January–March 1961. In this work, Carr argued that he was presenting a middle-of-the-road position between the empirical view of history and R. G. Collingwood's idealism. Carr rejected the empirical view of the historian's work being an accretion of \"facts\" that he or she has at their disposal as nonsense. Carr claimed: \"The belief in a hard core of historical facts existing objectively and independently of the interpretation of the historian is a preposterous fallacy, but one which it is very hard to eradicate\". Carr maintained that there is such a vast quantity of information, at least about post-Dark Ages times, that the historian always chooses the \"facts\" he or she decides to make use of. In Carr's famous example, he claimed that millions had crossed the Rubicon, but only Julius Caesar's crossing in 49 BC is declared noteworthy by historians. Carr divided facts into two categories, \"facts of the past\", that is historical information that historians deem unimportant, and \"historical facts\", information that the historians have decided is important. Carr contended that historians quite arbitrarily determine which of the \"facts of the past\" to turn into \"historical facts\" according to their own biases and agendas. Carr stated that:\"Study the historian before you begin to study the facts. This is, after all, not very abstruse. It is what is already done by the intelligent undergraduate who, when recommended to read a work by that great scholar Jones of St. Jude's, goes round to a friend at St. Jude's to ask what sort of chap Jones is, and what bees he has in his bonnet. When you read a work of history, always listen out for the buzzing. If you can detect none, either you are tone deaf or your historian is a dull dog. The facts are really not at all like fish on the fishmonger's slab. They are like fish swimming about in a vast and sometimes inaccessible ocean; and what the historian catches will depend partly on chance, but mainly on what part of the ocean he chooses to fish in and what tackle he chooses to use – these two factors being, of course, determined by the kind of fish he wants to catch. By and large, the historian will get the kind of facts he wants. History means interpretation. Indeed, if, standing Sir George Clark on his head, I were to call history \"a hard core of interpretation surrounded by a pulp of disputable facts\", my statement would, no doubt, be one-sided and misleading, but no more so, I venture to think, than the original \"dictum\"\" For this reason, Carr argued that Leopold von Ranke's famous dictum \"wie es eigentlich gewesen\" (show what actually happened) was wrong because it presumed that the \"facts\" influenced what the historian wrote, rather than the historian choosing what \"facts of the past\" he or she intended to turn into \"historical facts\". At the same time, Carr argued that the study of the facts may lead the historian to change his or her views. In this way, Carr argued that history was \"an unending dialogue between the past and present\".\n\nCarr used as an example of how he believed that \"facts of the past\" were transformed into the \"facts of history\" an obscure riot that took place in Wales in 1850 that saw a gingerbread seller beaten to death. Carr argued that this incident had been totally ignored by historians until the 1950s when George Kitson Clark mentioned it in one of his books. Since Kitson Clark, Carr claimed that several other historians have cited the same riot for what it revealed about Victorian Britain, leading Carr to assert that the riot and the murder of the gingerbread seller was in the progress of going from a \"fact of the past\" to a \"fact of history\" that in the future will be regularly cited by historians. Another example Carr used of his theory was the publication in 1932 of the papers of the former German Foreign Minister Gustav Stresemann by his secretary Bernhard. Carr noted when Stresemann died in 1929, he left behind 300 boxes of papers relating to his time in office, and in 1932 Bernhard published three volumes of Stresemann's papers under the title \"Stresemanns Vermächtnis\". Carr noted that because of the Dawes Plan, the Locarno Treaties (for which Stresemann was a co-winner of the Nobel peace prize), and the Young Plan, Bernhard devoted most of the papers in \"Stresemanns Vermächtnis\" to Stresemann's work with relations to Britain, France and the United States. Carr noted that the documents of the \"Auswärtiges Amt\" and Stresemann's own papers show that Stresemann was far more concerned with relations with the Soviet Union instead of the Western powers, and that Bernhard had edited the selection in \"Stresemanns Vermächtnis\" to focus more on Stresemann's Nobel Peace Prize-winning successes and to make him seem more like an apostle of peace than what he really was (one of Stresemann's major interests was in partitioning Poland between Germany and the Soviet Union). Moreover, Carr noted that when an English translation of \"Stresemanns Vermächtnis\" was published in 1935, the translator abbreviated one-third of the German original to focus more on those aspects of Stresemann's diplomacy that were of primary interest to British readers, which had the effect of making it seem that Stesemann was almost exclusively concerned with relations with the Western powers and had little time for relations with the Soviet Union. Carr commented that if it were only the English translation of \"Stresemanns Vermächtnis\" that had survived World War II, then historians would have been seriously misled about what Stresemann had been up to as Foreign Minister. Finally Carr argued that in the conversations between Stresemann and the Soviet Foreign Commissar Georgy Chicherin, Stresemann does most of the talking and says all of the intelligent and original things, leading Carr to suggest that Stresemann himself had edited the papers to place himself in the best possible light. Carr used \"Stresemanns Vermächtnis\" to argue for the subjective nature of the documents historians used, which he then used to support his attacks against the idea of the work of the historians being purely that of a totally objective observer who \"lets the facts speak for themselves\".\n\nLikewise, Carr charged that historians are always influenced by the present when writing about the past. As an example, he used the changing viewpoints about the German past expressed by the German historian Friedrich Meinecke during the Imperial, Weimar, Nazi and post-war periods to support his contention. The British historian Hugh Trevor-Roper, one of Carr's leading critics, summarised Carr's argument as: \"George Grote, the 19th-century historian of Greece, was an enlightened radical banker; therefore, his picture of Periclean Athens is merely an allegory of 19th century England as seen by an enlightened banker. Mommsen's \"History of Rome\" is similarly dismissed as a product and illustration of pre-Bismarckian Germany. Sir Lewis Namier's choice of subject and treatment of it simply show the predictable prejudices of a Polish conservative\".\n\nIn general, Carr held to a deterministic outlook in history. In Carr's opinion, all that happens in the world has a cause, and events could not have happened differently unless there was a different cause. In Carr's example, if one's friend Smith suddenly starts acting out of character one day, then it must be understood that there is a reason for the strange behaviour, and that if that reason did not exist, than Smith would be acting normally. Carr criticised counter-factual history as a \"parlour game\" played by the \"losers\" in history. Carr contended that those who engaged in counter-factual speculations about Russian history, such as if Count Pyotr Stolypin's land reforms were given enough time, would the Russian Revolution have been prevented, were those who were uncomfortable about the Bolsheviks being the \"winners\" of Russian history while their opponents were not. Likewise, Carr asserted those who stress the importance of \"accidents\" as a central causal agent in history were the \"losers\" of history, who wished to play explain away their defeats as the workings of chance and fate. In the same way, Carr argued that historians must concern themselves with the \"winners\" of history. In Carr's example, it is those who score centuries in cricket matches who are recorded, not those who are dismissed for ducks, and in the same way, Carr maintained that a preoccupation with the \"losers\" would be the equivalent of someone only listing the losers of cricket games. Carr dismissed the free will arguments made by Sir Karl Popper and Sir Isaiah Berlin as Cold War propaganda meant to discredit communism. In a similar way, Carr took a hostile view of those historians who stress the workings of chance and contingency in the workings of history. In Carr's view, such historians did not understand their craft very well, or were in some way identified with the \"losers\" of history.\n\nIn the same way, Carr argued that no individual is truly free of the social environment in which they live, but contended that within those limitations, there was room, albeit very narrow room for people to make decisions that affect history. Carr made a division between those who, like Vladimir Lenin and Oliver Cromwell, helped to shape the social forces that carried them to historical greatness and those who, like Otto von Bismarck and Napoleon, rode on the back of social forces over which they had little or no control. Though Carr was willing to grant individuals a role in history, he argued that those who focus exclusively on individuals in a Great man theory of history were doing a profound disservice to the past. As an example, Carr complained of those historians who explained the Russian Revolution solely as the result of the \"stupidity\" of the Emperor Nicholas II (which Carr regarded as a factor but only of lesser importance) rather than the working of a great social forces.\n\nCarr claimed that when examining causation in history, historians should seek to find \"rational\" causes of historical occurrences, that is causes that can be generalised across time to explain other occurrences in other times and places. For Carr, historical \"accidents\" can not be generalised, and thus not worth the historian's time. Carr illustrated his theory by telling a story of a man named Robinson who went out to buy some cigarettes one night, and was killed by an automobile with defective brakes driven by a drunk driver named Jones on a sharp turn of the road. Carr argued one could contend that the \"real\" reasons for the accident that killed Robinson might be the defective brakes or the sharp turn of the road or the inebriated state of Jones, but that to argue that it was Robinson's wish to buy cigarettes was the cause of his death, that while a factor was not the \"real\" cause of his death. As such, Carr argued that those who were seeking to prevent a repeat of Robinson's death would do well to pass laws regulating drunk driving, straightening the sharp turn of the road and the quality of automobile brakes, but would be wasting their time passing a law forbidding people to take a walk to buy cigarettes. In a not too subtle dig at critics of determinism like Sir Karl Popper and Sir Isaiah Berlin, Carr spoke of the inquiry into Robinson's death being interrupted by two \"distinguished gentlemen\" who maintained quite vehemently that it was Robinson's wish to buy cigarettes that caused his death. In the same way, Carr argued that historians needed to find the \"real\" causes of historical events by finding the general trend which could inspire a better understanding of the present than by focusing on the role of the accidental and incidental.\n\nAs an example of his attack on the role of accidents in history, Carr mocked the hypothesis of \"Cleopatra's nose\" (Pascal's thought that, but for the magnetism exerted by the nose of Cleopatra on Mark Anthony there would have been no affair between the two, and hence the Second Triumvirate would not have broken up, and therefore the Roman Republic would have continued). Carr sarcastically commented that the male attraction to female beauty can hardly be considered an accident at all, and is rather one of the most common cases of cause and effect in the world. Other examples of \"Cleopatra's Nose\" type of history cited by Carr were the claim by Edward Gibbon if the Turkish sultan Bayezid I did not suffer from gout, he would have conquered Central Europe, Winston Churchill's statement if King Alexander had not died of a monkey bite, the Greco-Turkish War would have been avoided, and Leon Trotsky's remark that if he not contracted a cold while duck hunting, he would not have missed a crucial Politburo meeting in 1923. Rather than accidents, Carr asserted history was a series of causal chains interacting with each other. Carr contemptuously compared those like Winston Churchill who in his book \"The World Crisis\" claimed that the death of King Alexander from a monkey bite caused the Greek-Turkish war to those who would claim that the \"real\" cause of Robinson's death was due to his desire to buy cigarettes. Carr argued that the claim that history was a series of \"accidents\" was merely an expression of the pessimism, which Carr claimed was the dominant mood in Britain in 1961 due to the decline of the British Empire.\n\nIn Carr's opinion, historical works that serve to broaden society's understanding of the past via generalisations are more \"right\" and \"socially acceptable\" than works that do not. Citing the Dutch historian Pieter Geyl, Carr argued that as the values of society changes, so do the values of historical works. Carr used Geyl's 1946 book \"Napoleon: voor en tegen in de Franse geschiedschrijving\" (\"Napoleon For and Against\") about how different French historians have viewed Napoleon in different periods to make a case that historians are always influenced by the society and times they live in. Carr argued that as society continues to progress in the 20th century, historians must change the values that they apply in writing their works to reflect the work of progress. Carr argued during his lectures that Karl Marx had developed a schema for understanding past, present and the future that reflected the proper and dual role of the historian both to analyse the past and provide a call for action for the present to create a better future for humanity.\n\nCarr emphatically contended that history was a social science, not an art. Carr argued that history should be considered a social science because historians like scientists seek generalisations that helped to broaden the understanding of one's subject. Carr used the example of the word revolution, arguing that if the word did not have a specific meaning that it would make no sense for historians to write of revolutions, even though every revolution that occurred in history was in its own way unique. Moreover, Carr claimed that historical generalisations were often related to lessons to be learned from other historical occurrences. Since in Carr's view, lessons can be sought and learned in history, then history was more like a science than any art. Though Carr conceded that historians can not predict exact events in the future, he argued that historical generalisations can supply information useful to understanding both the present and the future. Carr argued that since scientists are not purely neutral observers, but have a reciprocal relationship with the objects under their study just like historians, that this supported identifying history with the sciences rather than the arts. Likewise, Carr contended that history, like science, has no moral judgments, which in his opinion, supports the identification of history as a science.\n\nCarr was well known for his assertions in \"What Is History?\" in denying moral judgements in history. Carr argued that it was ahistorical for the historian to judge people in different times according to the moral values of his or her time. Carr argued that individuals should be judged only in terms of the values of their time and place, not by the values of the historian's time and/or place. In Carr's opinion, historians should not act as judges. Carr quoted Thomas Carlyle's remark on the British reaction to the French Revolution: \"Exaggeration abounds, execration, wailing and on the whole darkness\", and complained that exactly the same could be said about too much of Western commentary and writing on the Russian Revolution. Likewise, Carr quoted Carlyle on the Reign of Terror as a way of confronting Western complaints about Soviet terror: \"Horrible in lands that had known equal justice-not so unnatural in lands that had never known it\". Thus, Carr argued that within the context of the Soviet Union, Stalin was a force for the good. In a 1979 essay, Carr argued about Stalin that \"He revived and outdid the worst brutalities of the earlier Tsars; and his record excited revulsion in later generations of historians. Yet his achievement in borrowing from the West, in forcing on primitive Russia the material foundations of modern civilisation, and in giving Russia a place among the European powers, obliged them to concede, however reluctantly his title to greatness. Stalin was the most ruthless despot Russia had known since Peter, and also a great westerniser\". Though Carr made it clear that he preferred that historians refrain from expressing moral opinions, he did argue that if the historian should find it necessary then such views should be best be restricted to institutions rather than individuals. Carr argued that such an approach was better because the focus on individuals served to provide a collective alibi for societies. Carr used as examples those in United Kingdom who blamed appeasement solely upon Neville Chamberlain, those Germans who argued that Nazi-era crimes were the work of Adolf Hitler alone or those in the United States who blamed McCarthyism exclusively upon Senator Joseph McCarthy. In Carr's opinion, historians should reject concepts like good and Evil when making judgements about events and people. Instead, Carr preferred the terms \"progressive\" or \"reactionary\" as the terms for value judgements. In Carr's opinion, if a historical event such as the collectivisation of Soviet agriculture in the early 1930s led to the growth of the Soviet heavy industry and the achievement of the goals of the First Five Year Plan, then the collectivisation must be considered a progressive development in history, and hence all of the sufferings and millions of deaths caused by collectivisation, the \"dekulakisation\" campaign and the \"Holodomor\" were justified by the growth of Soviet heavy industry. Likewise, Carr argued that the suffering of Chinese workers in the treaty ports and in the mines of South Africa in the late 19th-early 20th centuries was terrible, but must be considered a progressive development as it helped to push China towards the Communist revolution. Carr argued that China was much better off under the leadership of Mao Zedong than it was under the leadership of Chiang Kai-shek, and hence all of the developments that led to the fall of Chiang's regime in 1949 and the rise to power of Mao must considered progressive. Finally, Carr argued that historians can be \"objective\" if they are capable of moving beyond their narrow view of the situation both in the past and in the present and write historical works that helped to contribute to progress of society.\n\nAt the end of his lectures, Carr criticised a number of conservative/liberal historians and philosophers such as Hugh Trevor-Roper, Sir Karl Popper, Admiral Samuel Eliot Morison, Sir Lewis Bernstein Namier and Michael Oakeshott, and argued that \"progress\" in the world was against them. Carr ended his book with the predication that \"progress\" would sweep away everything that Popper, Morison, Namier, Trever-Roper and Oakeshott believed in the 20th century just the same way that \"progress\" swept away the Catholic Church's opposition to Galileo Galilei's astronomical theories in the 17th century. Elaborating on the theme of \"progress\" inevitably sweeping away the old order of things in the world, in a 1970 article entitled \"Marxism and History\", Carr argued that with the exception of the Mexican Revolution, every revolution in the last sixty-odd years had been led by Marxists. The other revolutions Carr counted were the revolutions in Cuba, China, Russia, and a half-revolution in Vietnam (presumably a reference to the then on-going Vietnam War). This together with what Carr saw as the miserable condition of the Third World, which comprised most of the world led Carr to argue that Marxism had the greatest appeal in the Third World, and was the most likely wave of the future. Carr expanded on this thesis of \"progress\" being an unstoppable force in September 1978 when he stated: \"I think we have to consider seriously the hypothesis that the world revolution of which [the Bolshevik revolution] was the first stage, and which will complete the downfall of capitalism, will prove to be the revolt of the colonial peoples against capitalism in the guise of imperialism\".\n\nIn his notes for a second edition of \"What Is History?\", Carr remarked on recent trends in historiography. Carr wrote about the rise of social history that:\"Since the First World War the impact of the materialist conception of history on historical writings has been very strong. Indeed, one might say that all serious historical work done in this period has been moulded by its influence. The symptom of this change has been the replacement, in general esteem, of battles, diplomatic manoeuvres, constitutional arguments and political intrigues as the main topics of history-'political history' in the broad sense-by the study of economic factors, of social conditions, of statistics of population, of the rise and fall of classes. The increasing popularity of sociology has been another feature of the same development; the attempt has sometimes been made to treat history as a branch of sociology.\" About the rise of social history as a subject at the expense of political history, Carr wrote:\"Social history is the bedrock. To study the bedrock alone is not enough; and becomes tedious; perhaps this is what happened to Annales. But you can't dispense with it\". Through Carr himself had insisted that history was a social science, he regretted the decline of history as a discipline relative to the other social sciences, which he saw as a part of a conservative trend. Carr wrote:\"History is preoccupied with fundamental processes of change. If you are allergic to these processes, you abandon history and take cover in the social sciences. Today anthropology, sociology, etc., flourish. History is sick. But then our society too is sick\". Carr deplored the rise of Structuralism. Carr wrote there was the structuralist approach, which Carr called a \"horizontal\" way of understanding history that \"analyses a society in terms of the functional or structural inter-relation of its parts\". Against it, there was what Carr called the \"vertical\" approach that \"analyses it [society] in terms of where it has come from and where it is going\". Though Carr was willing to allow that a structural approach had some advantages, he wrote:\"But it makes a lot of difference which attracts [the historian's] main emphasis and concern. This depends partly, no doubt, on his temperament, but largely on the environment in which he works. We live in a society which thinks of change chiefly as change for the worse, dreads it and prefers the \"horizontal\" view which calls only for minor adjustments\". Repeating his attack on the empirical approach to history, Carr claimed that those historians who claimed to be strict empiricists like Captain Stephen Roskill who took a just-the-facts approach would resemble a character named Funes in a short story by the Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges who never forgot anything he had seen or heard, so his memory was a \"garbage heap\" Thus, Funes was \"not very capable of thought\" because \"to think is forget differences, to generalise, to make abstractions\" In his introduction to the second edition of \"What Is History?\" written shortly before his death in 1982, which was all that Carr had finished of the second edition, Carr proclaimed his belief that the western world was in a state of despair, writing:\"The Cold War has resumed with redoubled intensity, bringing with it the threat of nuclear extinction. The delayed economic crisis has set in with a vengeance, ravaging the industrial countries and spreading the cancer of unemployment throughout the Western world [Carr is referring to the recession of the early 1980s here.]. Scarcely a country is now free from the antagonism of violence and terrorism. The revolt of the oil-producing states of the Middle East has brought a significant shift in power to the disadvantage of the Western industrial nations [a reference on the part of Carr to the Arab oil shock of 1973–74 and to the Iranian oil shock of 1979]. The \"third world\" has been transformed from a passive into a positive and disturbing factor in world affairs. In these conditions any expression of optimism has come to seem absurd\". Carr went on to declare his belief that the world was in fact getting better and wrote that it was only the West in decline, not the world, writing that:\"My conclusion is that the current wave of scepticism and despair, which looks ahead to nothing but destruction and decay, and dismisses as absurd any belief in progress or any prospect of a further advance by the human race, is a form of elitism-the product of elite social groups whose security and whose privileges have been most conspicuously eroded by the crisis, and of elite countries whose once undisputed domination over the rest of the world has been shattered\".\n\nThe claims that Carr made about the nature of historical work in \"What Is History?\" proved be very controversial, and inspired Sir Geoffrey Elton to write his 1967 book \"The Practice of History\" in response, defending traditional historical methods. Elton criticised Carr for his \"whimsical\" distinction between the \"historical facts\" and the \"facts of the past\", arguing that it reflected \"an extraordinarily arrogant attitude both to the past and to the place of the historian studying it\". Though Elton praised Carr for rejecting the role of \"accidents\" in history, he maintained that Carr's philosophy of history was merely an attempt to provide a secular version of the mediaeval view of history as the working of God's master plan with \"Progress\" playing the part of God. In response to Elton's book, Carr wrote a letter to him that began with a warning about suing him for libel. However, the libel threat was just a practical joke as Carr wrote \"Nobody before has accused me of having been an undergraduate at Oxford, and my solicitors might, I fear take a low view of this\". Carr was referring here to the sentence in \"The Practice of History\" where Elton had written that Carr's knowledge of ancient Greece were based on \"the fifty-year memories of an Oxford undergraduate\" (Carr had of course attended Cambridge).\n\nThe British historian Hugh Trevor-Roper argued that Carr's dismissal of the \"might-have-beens of history\" reflected a fundamental lack of interest in examining historical causation. Trevor-Roper asserted that examining possible alternative outcomes of history was far from being a \"parlour-game\" was rather an essential part of the historians' work. Trevor-Roper argued that only by considering all possible outcomes of a given historical situation could a historian properly understand the period under study. In Trevor-Roper's opinion, only by looking at all possible outcomes and all sides could a historian properly understand history, and those historians who adopted Carr's perspective of only seeking to understand the \"winners\" of history, and treating the outcome of a particular set of events as the only possible outcome were \"bad historians\". In a review in 1963 in \"Historische Zeitschrift\", Andreas Hillgruber wrote favourably of Carr's \"geistvoll-ironischer\" (ironically spirited) criticism of conservative, liberal and positivist historians A more positive assessment of \"What Is History?\" came from the British philosopher W.H. Walsh who in a 1963 review endorsed Carr's theory of \"facts of history\" and \"facts of the past\", writing that it is not a \"fact of history\" he had toast for breakfast today. Walsh went on to write that Carr was correct that historians did not stand above history, and were instead products of their own places and times, which in turn decided what \"facts of the past\" they determined into \"facts of history\".\n\nThe British historian Richard J. Evans credited \"What Is History?\" with causing a revolution in British historiography in the 1960s. The Australian historian Keith Windschuttle, a critic of Carr noted regretfully that \"What Is History?\" has proved to be one of the most influential books ever written about historiography, and that there were very few historians working in the English language since the 1960s who had not read \"What Is History?\" Against Carr's theory of \"facts of the past\" and \"facts of history\", Winschuttle wrote:\"Another contender for historical truth might be the proposition: 'The United States defeated Japan in the Second World War.' Now this is something that we know not simply from the historical record. It is no mere interpretation derived from an examination of the documents of surrender signed aboard the USS \"Missouri\" in Tokyo Harbour in 1945. It is not an interpretation that future generations might overturn after they have scoured the nuances of the texts for so far undiscerned ideological meaning. The fact that the United States defeated Japan has shaped the very world that all of us have inhabited since 1945. The relations between states, the world economy, the employment market of every industrial country are all consequences in various ways of this historical truth. The world itself confirms the proposition.<br><br>Of course, E.H. Carr might argue the defeat of Japan is a mere 'fact' and the really interesting discussions are the interpretations historians make and the conclusions they draw from facts of this kind. Well, one man's fact can be another man's conclusion. For someone writing a narrative history of the war in the Pacific, the defeat of Japan is a very big conclusion indeed. There is no event that is inherently confined to the status of a mere fact, that is, a building block of a much larger conclusion. Every fact can itself be a conclusion and every conclusion can itself be a fact in someone else's explanation.\"\n\nCarr contributed to the foundation of what is now known as classical realism in International relations theory. Through study of history (work of Thucydides and Machiavelli) and reflection and deep epistemological disagreement with Idealism, the dominant International relations theory between the World Wars, he came up with realism. In his book \"The Twenty Years' Crisis\", Carr defined three dichotomies of realism and utopianism (Idealism), derived from Machiavellian realism:\n\n\n\n\nThe Papers of E. H. Carr are held at the University of Birmingham Special Collections\n"}
{"id": "37782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37782", "title": "Edward Teller", "text": "Edward Teller\n\nEdward Teller (; January 15, 1908 – September 9, 2003) was a Hungarian-American theoretical physicist who is known colloquially as \"the father of the hydrogen bomb\", although he did not care for the title. He made numerous contributions to nuclear and molecular physics, spectroscopy (in particular the Jahn–Teller and Renner–Teller effects), and surface physics. His extension of Enrico Fermi's theory of beta decay, in the form of Gamow–Teller transitions, provided an important stepping stone in its application, while the Jahn–Teller effect and the Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) theory have retained their original formulation and are still mainstays in physics and chemistry. Teller also made contributions to Thomas–Fermi theory, the precursor of density functional theory, a standard modern tool in the quantum mechanical treatment of complex molecules. In 1953, along with Nicholas Metropolis, Arianna Rosenbluth, Marshall Rosenbluth, and Augusta Teller, Teller co-authored a paper that is a standard starting point for the applications of the Monte Carlo method to statistical mechanics. Throughout his life, Teller was known both for his scientific ability and for his difficult interpersonal relations and volatile personality.\n\nTeller was born in Hungary and emigrated to the United States in the 1930s. He was an early member of the Manhattan Project, charged with developing the first atomic bomb; during this time he made a serious push to develop the first fusion-based weapons as well, but these were deferred until after World War II. After his controversial testimony in the security clearance hearing of his former Los Alamos Laboratory superior, J. Robert Oppenheimer, Teller was ostracized by much of the scientific community. He continued to find support from the U.S. government and military research establishment, particularly for his advocacy for nuclear energy development, a strong nuclear arsenal, and a vigorous nuclear testing program. He was a co-founder of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL), and was both its director and associate director for many years.\n\nIn his later years, Teller became especially known for his advocacy of controversial technological solutions to both military and civilian problems, including a plan to excavate an artificial harbor in Alaska using thermonuclear explosive in what was called Project Chariot. He was a vigorous advocate of Ronald Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative.\n\nEde Teller was born on January 15, 1908, in Budapest, Hungary (then part of Austria-Hungary), into a Jewish family. His parents were Ilona (born Deutsch; 1883–1977), a pianist, and Miksa (Max) Teller (1871–1950), an attorney. He learned in the Fasori Lutheran Gymnasium, then in the Minta (Model) Gymnasium in Budapest. Jewish of origin, later in life Teller became an agnostic Jew. \"Religion was not an issue in my family\", he later wrote, \"indeed, it was never discussed. My only religious training came because the Minta required that all students take classes in their respective religions. My family celebrated one holiday, the Day of Atonement, when we all fasted. Yet my father said prayers for his parents on Saturdays and on all the Jewish holidays. The idea of God that I absorbed was that it would be wonderful if He existed: We needed Him desperately but had not seen Him in many thousands of years.\" Like Einstein and Feynman, Teller was a late talker. He developed the ability to speak later than most children, but became very interested in numbers, and would calculate large numbers in his head for fun.\nTeller left Hungary in 1926, partly due to the discriminatory \"numerus clausus\" rule under Miklós Horthy's regime. The political climate and revolutions in Hungary during his youth instilled a lingering animosity for both Communism and Fascism in Teller. When he was a young student, his right foot was severed in a streetcar accident in Munich, requiring him to wear a prosthetic foot, and leaving him with a lifelong limp. Werner Heisenberg said that it was the hardiness of Teller's spirit, rather than stoicism, that allowed him to cope so well with the accident.\n\nTeller graduated in chemical engineering at the University of Karlsruhe, and received in 1930 his Ph.D. in physics under Werner Heisenberg at the University of Leipzig. Teller's dissertation dealt with one of the first accurate quantum mechanical treatments of the hydrogen molecular ion. In 1930 he befriended Russian physicists George Gamow and Lev Landau. Teller's lifelong friendship with a Czech physicist, George Placzek, was also very important for his scientific and philosophical development. It was Placzek who arranged a summer stay in Rome with Enrico Fermi in 1932, thus orienting Teller's scientific career in nuclear physics.\n\nIn 1930, Teller moved to the University of Göttingen, then one of the world's great centers of physics due to the presence of Max Born and James Franck, but after Adolf Hitler became Chancellor of Germany in January 1933, Germany became unsafe for Jewish people, and he left through the aid of the International Rescue Committee. He went briefly to England, and moved for a year to Copenhagen, where he worked under Niels Bohr. In February 1934, he married his long-time girlfriend Augusta Maria \"Mici\" (pronounced \"Mitzi\") Harkanyi, the sister of a friend. He returned to England in September 1934.\n\nMici had been a student in Pittsburgh, and wanted to return to the United States. Her chance came in 1935, when, thanks to George Gamow, Teller was invited to the United States to become a Professor of Physics at George Washington University, where he worked with Gamow until 1941. At George Washington University in 1937, Teller predicted the Jahn–Teller effect, which distorts molecules in certain situations; this affects the chemical reactions of metals, and in particular the coloration of certain metallic dyes. Teller and Hermann Arthur Jahn analyzed it as a piece of purely mathematical physics. In collaboration with Stephen Brunauer and Paul Hugh Emmett, Teller also made an important contribution to surface physics and chemistry: the so-called Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) isotherm. Teller and Mici became naturalized citizens of the United States on March 6, 1941.\n\nWhen World War II began, Teller wanted to contribute to the war effort. On the advice of the well-known Caltech aerodynamicist and fellow Hungarian émigré Theodore von Kármán, Teller collaborated with his friend Hans Bethe in developing a theory of shock-wave propagation. In later years, their explanation of the behavior of the gas behind such a wave proved valuable to scientists who were studying missile re-entry.\n\nIn 1942, Teller was invited to be part of Robert Oppenheimer's summer planning seminar, at the University of California, Berkeley for the origins of the Manhattan Project, the Allied effort to develop the first nuclear weapons. A few weeks earlier, Teller had been meeting with his friend and colleague Enrico Fermi about the prospects of atomic warfare, and Fermi had nonchalantly suggested that perhaps a weapon based on nuclear fission could be used to set off an even larger nuclear fusion reaction. Even though he initially explained to Fermi why he thought the idea would not work, Teller was fascinated by the possibility and was quickly bored with the idea of \"just\" an atomic bomb even though this was not yet anywhere near completion. At the Berkeley session, Teller diverted discussion from the fission weapon to the possibility of a fusion weapon—what he called the \"Super\", an early concept of what was later to be known as a hydrogen bomb.\n\nArthur Compton, the chairman of the University of Chicago physics department, coordinated the uranium research of Columbia University, Princeton University, the University of Chicago, and the University of California, Berkeley. To remove disagreement and duplication, Compton transferred the scientists to the Metallurgical Laboratory at Chicago. Teller was left behind at first, because while he and Mici were now American citizens, they still had relatives in enemy countries. In early 1943, the Los Alamos laboratory was established in Los Alamos, New Mexico to design an atomic bomb, with Oppenheimer as its director. Teller moved there in March 1943. Apparently, Teller managed to annoy his neighbors there by playing the piano late in the night.\n\nTeller became part of the Theoretical (T) Division. He was given a secret identity of Ed Tilden. He was irked at being passed over as its head; the job was instead given to Hans Bethe. Oppenheimer had him investigate unusual approaches to building fission weapons, such as autocatalysis, in which the efficiency of the bomb would increase as the nuclear chain reaction progressed, but proved to be impractical. He also investigated using uranium hydride instead of uranium metal, but its efficiency turned out to be \"negligible or less\". He continued to push his ideas for a fusion weapon even though it had been put on a low priority during the war (as the creation of a fission weapon proved to be difficult enough). On a visit to New York, he asked Maria Goeppert-Mayer to carry out calculations on the Super for him. She confirmed Teller's own results: the Super was not going to work.\n\nA special group was established under Teller in March 1944 to investigate the mathematics of an implosion-type nuclear weapon. It too ran into difficulties. Because of his interest in the Super, Teller did not work as hard on the implosion calculations as Bethe wanted. These too were originally low-priority tasks, but the discovery of spontaneous fission in plutonium by Emilio Segrè's group gave the Super increased importance. In June 1944, at Bethe's request, Oppenheimer moved Teller out of T Division, and placed him in charge of a special group responsible for the Super, reporting directly to Oppenheimer. He was replaced by Rudolf Peierls from the British Mission, who in turn brought in Klaus Fuchs, who was later revealed to be a Soviet spy. Teller's Super group became part of Fermi's F Division when he joined the Los Alamos Laboratory in September 1944. It included Stanislaw Ulam, Jane Roberg, Geoffrey Chew, Harold and Mary Argo, and Maria Goeppert-Mayer.\n\nTeller made valuable contributions to bomb research, especially in the elucidation of the implosion mechanism. He was the first to propose the solid pit design that was eventually successful. This design became known as a \"Christy pit\", after the physicist Robert F. Christy who made the pit a reality. Teller was one of the few scientists to actually watch (with eye protection) the Trinity nuclear test in July 1945, rather than follow orders to lie on the ground with backs turned. He later said that the atomic flash \"was as if I had pulled open the curtain in a dark room and broad daylight streamed in.\"\n\nIn the days before and after the first demonstration of a nuclear weapon, the Trinity test in July 1945, his fellow Hungarian Leo Szilard circulated the Szilard petition, which argued that a demonstration to the Japanese of the new weapon should occur prior to actual use on Japan, and with that hopefully the weapons would never be used on people. In response to Szilard's petition, Teller consulted his friend Robert Oppenheimer. Teller believed that Oppenheimer was a natural leader and could help him with such a formidable political problem. Oppenheimer reassured Teller that the nation's fate should be left to the sensible politicians in Washington. Bolstered by Oppenheimer's influence, he decided to not sign the petition.\n\nTeller therefore penned a letter in response to Szilard that read:\n\nOn reflection on this letter years later when he was writing his memoirs, Teller wrote:\n\nUnknown to Teller at the time, four of his colleagues were solicited by the then secret May to June 1945 Interim Committee. It is this organization which ultimately decided on how the new weapons should initially be used. The committee's four-member \"Scientific Panel\" was led by Oppenheimer, and concluded immediate military use on Japan was the best option:\n\nTeller later learned of Oppenheimer's solicitation and his role in the Interim Committee's decision to drop the bombs, having secretly endorsed an immediate military use of the new weapons. This was contrary to the impression that Teller had received when he had personally asked Oppenheimer about the Szilard petition: that the nation's fate should be left to the sensible politicians in Washington. Following Teller's discovery of this, his relationship with his advisor began to deteriorate.\n\nIn 1990, the historian Barton Bernstein argued that it is an \"unconvincing claim\" by Teller that he was a \"covert dissenter\" to the use of the weapon. In his 2001 \"Memoirs\", Teller claims that he did lobby Oppenheimer, but that Oppenheimer had convinced him that he should take no action and that the scientists should leave military questions in the hands of the military; Teller claims he was not aware that Oppenheimer and other scientists were being consulted as to the actual use of the weapon and implies that Oppenheimer was being hypocritical.\n\nDespite an offer from Norris Bradbury, who had replaced Oppenheimer as the director of Los Alamos in November 1945, to become the head of the Theoretical (T) Division, Teller left Los Alamos on February 1, 1946, to return to the University of Chicago as a professor and close associate of Fermi and Goeppert-Mayer. Mayer's work on the internal structure of the elements would earn her the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1963.\nOn April 18–20, 1946, Teller participated in a conference at Los Alamos to review the wartime work on the Super. The properties of thermonuclear fuels such as deuterium and the possible design of a hydrogen bomb were discussed. It was concluded that Teller's assessment of a hydrogen bomb had been too favourable, and that both the quantity of deuterium needed, as well as the radiation losses during deuterium burning, would shed doubt on its workability. Addition of expensive tritium to the thermonuclear mixture would likely lower its ignition temperature, but even so, nobody knew at that time how much tritium would be needed, and whether even tritium addition would encourage heat propagation.\n\nAt the end of the conference, in spite of opposition by some members such as Robert Serber, Teller submitted an optimistic report in which he said that a hydrogen bomb was feasible, and that further work should be encouraged on its development. Fuchs also participated in this conference, and transmitted this information to Moscow. With John von Neumann, he contributed an idea of using implosion to ignite the Super. The model of Teller's \"classical Super\" was so uncertain that Oppenheimer would later say that he wished the Russians were building their own hydrogen bomb based on that design, so that it would almost certainly retard their progress on it.\n\nBy 1949, Soviet-backed governments had already begun seizing control throughout Eastern Europe, forming such puppet states as the Hungarian People's Republic in Teller's homeland of Hungary, where much of his family still lived, on August 20, 1949. Following the Soviet Union's first test detonation of an atomic bomb on August 29, 1949, President Harry Truman announced a crash development program for a hydrogen bomb.\n\nTeller returned to Los Alamos in 1950 to work on the project. He insisted on involving more theorists. but many of Teller's prominent colleagues, like Fermi and Oppenheimer, were sure that the project of the H-bomb was technically infeasible and politically undesirable. None of the available designs were yet workable. However Soviet scientists who had worked on their own hydrogen bomb have claimed that they developed it independently.\n\nIn 1950, calculations by the Polish mathematician Stanislaw Ulam and his collaborator Cornelius Everett, along with confirmations by Fermi, had shown that not only was Teller's earlier estimate of the quantity of tritium needed for the H-bomb a low one, but that even with higher amounts of tritium, the energy loss in the fusion process would be too great to enable the fusion reaction to propagate. However, in 1951 Teller and Ulam made a breakthrough, and invented a new design, proposed in a classified March 1951 paper, \"On Heterocatalytic Detonations I: Hydrodynamic Lenses and Radiation Mirrors\", for a practical megaton-range H-bomb. The exact contribution provided respectively from Ulam and Teller to what became known as the Teller–Ulam design is not definitively known in the public domain, and the exact contributions of each and how the final idea was arrived upon has been a point of dispute in both public and classified discussions since the early 1950s.\n\nIn an interview with \"Scientific American\" from 1999, Teller told the reporter:\nThe issue is controversial. Bethe considered Teller's contribution to the invention of the H-bomb a true innovation as early as 1952, and referred to his work as a \"stroke of genius\" in 1954. In both cases, however, Bethe emphasized Teller's role as a way of stressing that the development of the H-bomb could not have been hastened by additional support or funding, and Teller greatly disagreed with Bethe's assessment. Other scientists (antagonistic to Teller, such as J. Carson Mark) have claimed that Teller would have never gotten any closer without the assistance of Ulam and others. Ulam himself claimed that Teller only produced a \"more generalized\" version of Ulam's original design.\n\nThe breakthrough—the details of which are still classified—was apparently the separation of the fission and fusion components of the weapons, and to use the X-rays produced by the fission bomb to first compress the fusion fuel (by process known as \"radiation implosion\") before igniting it. Ulam's idea seems to have been to use mechanical shock from the primary to encourage fusion in the secondary, while Teller quickly realized that X-rays from the primary would do the job much more symmetrically. Some members of the laboratory (J. Carson Mark in particular) later expressed the opinion that the idea to use the x-rays would have eventually occurred to anyone working on the physical processes involved, and that the obvious reason why Teller thought of it right away was because he was already working on the \"Greenhouse\" tests for the spring of 1951, in which the effect of x-rays from a fission bomb on a mixture of deuterium and tritium was going to be investigated.\n\nWhatever the actual components of the so-called Teller–Ulam design and the respective contributions of those who worked on it, after it was proposed it was immediately seen by the scientists working on the project as the answer which had been so long sought. Those who previously had doubted whether a fission-fusion bomb would be feasible at all were converted into believing that it was only a matter of time before both the USA and the USSR had developed multi-megaton weapons. Even Oppenheimer, who was originally opposed to the project, called the idea \"technically sweet.\"\nThough he had helped to come up with the design and had been a long-time proponent of the concept, Teller was not chosen to head the development project (his reputation of a thorny personality likely played a role in this). In 1952 he left Los Alamos and joined the newly established Livermore branch of the University of California Radiation Laboratory, which had been created largely through his urging. After the detonation of Ivy Mike, the first thermonuclear weapon to utilize the Teller–Ulam configuration, on November 1, 1952, Teller became known in the press as the \"father of the hydrogen bomb.\" Teller himself refrained from attending the test—he claimed not to feel welcome at the Pacific Proving Grounds—and instead saw its results on a seismograph in the basement of a hall in Berkeley.\n\nThere was an opinion that by analyzing the fallout from this test, the Soviets (led in their H-bomb work by Andrei Sakharov) could have deciphered the new American design. However, this was later denied by the Soviet bomb researchers. Because of official secrecy, little information about the bomb's development was released by the government, and press reports often attributed the entire weapon's design and development to Teller and his new Livermore Laboratory (when it was actually developed by Los Alamos).\n\nMany of Teller's colleagues were irritated that he seemed to enjoy taking full credit for something he had only a part in, and in response, with encouragement from Enrico Fermi, Teller authored an article titled \"The Work of Many People,\" which appeared in \"Science\" magazine in February 1955, emphasizing that he was not alone in the weapon's development. He would later write in his memoirs that he had told a \"white lie\" in the 1955 article in order to \"soothe ruffled feelings\", and claimed full credit for the invention.\n\nTeller was known for getting engrossed in projects which were theoretically interesting but practically unfeasible (the classic \"Super\" was one such project.) About his work on the hydrogen bomb, Bethe said:\nDuring the Manhattan Project, Teller advocated the development of a bomb using uranium hydride, which many of his fellow theorists said would be unlikely to work. At Livermore, Teller continued work on the hydride bomb, and the result was a dud. Ulam once wrote to a colleague about an idea he had shared with Teller: \"Edward is full of enthusiasm about these possibilities; this is perhaps an indication they will not work.\" Fermi once said that Teller was the only monomaniac he knew who had several manias.\n\nCarey Sublette of Nuclear Weapon Archive argues that Ulam came up with the radiation implosion compression design of thermonuclear weapons, but that on the other hand Teller has gotten little credit for being the first to propose fusion boosting in 1945, which is essential for miniaturization and reliability and is used in all of today's nuclear weapons.\n\nTeller became controversial in 1954 when he testified against Oppenheimer at Oppenheimer's security clearance hearing. Teller had clashed with Oppenheimer many times at Los Alamos over issues relating both to fission and fusion research, and during Oppenheimer's trial he was the only member of the scientific community to state that Oppenheimer should not be granted security clearance.\nAsked at the hearing by Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) attorney Roger Robb whether he was planning \"to suggest that Dr. Oppenheimer is disloyal to the United States\", Teller replied that:I do not want to suggest anything of the kind. I know Oppenheimer as an intellectually most alert and a very complicated person, and I think it would be presumptuous and wrong on my part if I would try in any way to analyze his motives. But I have always assumed, and I now assume that he is loyal to the United States. I believe this, and I shall believe it until I see very conclusive proof to the opposite.He was immediately asked whether he believed that Oppenheimer was a \"security risk\", to which he testified:\nTeller also testified that Oppenheimer's opinion about the thermonuclear program seemed to be based more on the scientific feasibility of the weapon than anything else. He additionally testified that Oppenheimer's direction of Los Alamos was \"a very outstanding achievement\" both as a scientist and an administrator, lauding his \"very quick mind\" and that he made \"just a most wonderful and excellent director.\"\n\nAfter this, however, he detailed ways in which he felt that Oppenheimer had hindered his efforts towards an active thermonuclear development program, and at length criticized Oppenheimer's decisions not to invest more work onto the question at different points in his career, saying: \"If it is a question of wisdom and judgment, as demonstrated by actions since 1945, then I would say one would be wiser not to grant clearance.\"\n\nBy recasting a difference of judgment over the merits of the early work on the hydrogen bomb project into a matter of a security risk, Teller effectively damned Oppenheimer in a field where security was necessarily of paramount concern. Teller's testimony thereby rendered Oppenheimer vulnerable to charges by a Congressional aide that he was a Soviet spy, which resulted in the destruction of Oppenheimer's career.\n\nOppenheimer's security clearance was revoked after the hearings. Most of Teller's former colleagues disapproved of his testimony and he was ostracized by much of the scientific community. After the fact, Teller consistently denied that he was intending to damn Oppenheimer, and even claimed that he was attempting to exonerate him. However, documentary evidence has suggested that this was likely not the case. Six days before the testimony, Teller met with an AEC liaison officer and suggested \"deepening the charges\" in his testimony.\n\nTeller always insisted that his testimony had not significantly harmed Oppenheimer. In 2002, Teller contended that Oppenheimer was \"not destroyed\" by the security hearing but \"no longer asked to assist in policy matters.\" He claimed his words were an overreaction, because he had only just learned of Oppenheimer's failure to immediately report an approach by Haakon Chevalier, who had approached Oppenheimer to help the Russians. Teller said that, in hindsight, he would have responded differently.\n\nHistorian Richard Rhodes said that in his opinion it was already a foregone conclusion that Oppenheimer would have his security clearance revoked by then AEC chairman Lewis Strauss, regardless of Teller's testimony. However, as Teller's testimony was the most damning, he was singled out and blamed for the hearing's ruling, losing friends due to it, such as Robert Christy, who refused to shake his hand in one infamous incident. This was emblematic of his later treatment which resulted in his being forced into the role of an outcast of the physics community, thus leaving him little choice but to align himself with industrialists.\n\nAfter the Oppenheimer controversy, Teller became ostracized by much of the scientific community, but was still quite welcome in the government and military science circles. Along with his traditional advocacy for nuclear energy development, a strong nuclear arsenal, and a vigorous nuclear testing program, he had helped to develop nuclear reactor safety standards as the chair of the Reactor Safeguard Committee of the AEC in the late 1940s, and in the late 1950s headed an effort at General Atomics which designed research reactors in which a nuclear meltdown would be impossible. The TRIGA (\"Training, Research, Isotopes, General Atomic\") has been built and used in hundreds of hospitals and universities worldwide for medical isotope production and research.\n\nTeller promoted increased defense spending to counter the perceived Soviet missile threat. He was a signatory to the 1958 report by the military sub-panel of the Rockefeller Brothers funded Special Studies Project, which called for a $3 billion annual increase in America's military budget.\n\nIn 1956 he attended the Project Nobska anti-submarine warfare conference, where discussion ranged from oceanography to nuclear weapons. In the course of discussing a small nuclear warhead for the Mark 45 torpedo, he started a discussion on the possibility of developing a physically small one-megaton nuclear warhead for the Polaris missile. His counterpart in the discussion, J. Carson Mark from the Los Alamos National Laboratory, at first insisted it could not be done. However, Dr. Mark eventually stated that a half-megaton warhead of small enough size could be developed. This yield, roughly thirty times that of the Hiroshima bomb, was enough for Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Arleigh Burke, who was present in person, and Navy strategic missile development shifted from Jupiter to Polaris by the end of the year.\n\nHe was Director of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, which he helped to found with Ernest O. Lawrence, from 1958 to 1960, and after that he continued as an Associate Director. He chaired the committee that founded the Space Sciences Laboratory at Berkeley. He also served concurrently as a Professor of Physics at the University of California, Berkeley. He was a tireless advocate of a strong nuclear program and argued for continued testing and development—in fact, he stepped down from the directorship of Livermore so that he could better lobby against the proposed test ban. He testified against the test ban both before Congress as well as on television.\n\nTeller established the Department of Applied Science at the University of California, Davis and LLNL in 1963, which holds the Edward Teller endowed professorship in his honor. In 1975 he retired from both the lab and Berkeley, and was named Director Emeritus of the Livermore Laboratory and appointed Senior Research Fellow at the Hoover Institution. After the fall of communism in Hungary in 1989, he made several visits to his country of origin, and paid careful attention to the political changes there.\n\nTeller was one of the first prominent people to raise the danger of climate change, driven by the burning of fossil fuels. At an address to the membership of the American Chemical Society in December 1957, Teller warned that the large amount of carbon-based fuel that had been burnt since the mid-19th century was increasing the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, which would \"act in the same way as a greenhouse and will raise the temperature at the surface\", and that he had calculated that if the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere increased by 10% \"an appreciable part of the polar ice might melt.\"\n\nIn 1959, at a symposium organised by the American Petroleum Institute and the Columbia Graduate School of Business for the centennial of the American oil industry, Edward Teller warned that:\n\nTeller was one of the strongest and best-known advocates for investigating non-military uses of nuclear explosives, which the United States explored under Operation Plowshare. One of the most controversial projects he proposed was a plan to use a multi-megaton hydrogen bomb to dig a deep-water harbor more than a mile long and half a mile wide to use for shipment of resources from coal and oil fields through Point Hope, Alaska. The Atomic Energy Commission accepted Teller's proposal in 1958 and it was designated Project Chariot. While the AEC was scouting out the Alaskan site, and having withdrawn the land from the public domain, Teller publicly advocated the economic benefits of the plan, but was unable to convince local government leaders that the plan was financially viable.\n\nOther scientists criticized the project as being potentially unsafe for the local wildlife and the Inupiat people living near the designated area, who were not officially told of the plan until March 1960. Additionally, it turned out that the harbor would be ice-bound for nine months out of the year. In the end, due to the financial infeasibility of the project and the concerns over radiation-related health issues, the project was abandoned in 1962.\n\nA related experiment which also had Teller's endorsement was a plan to extract oil from the tar sands in northern Alberta with nuclear explosions, titled Project Oilsands. The plan actually received the endorsement of the Alberta government, but was rejected by the Government of Canada under Prime Minister John Diefenbaker, who was opposed to having any nuclear weapons in Canada. After Diefenbaker was out of office, Canada went on to have nuclear weapons, from a US nuclear sharing agreement, from 1963 to 1984.\n\nFor some twenty years, Teller advised Israel on nuclear matters in general, and on the building of a hydrogen bomb in particular. In 1952, Teller and Oppenheimer had a long meeting with David Ben-Gurion in Tel Aviv, telling him that the best way to accumulate plutonium was to burn natural uranium in a nuclear reactor. Starting in 1964, a connection between Teller and Israel was made by the physicist Yuval Ne'eman, who had similar political views. Between 1964 and 1967, Teller visited Israel six times, lecturing at Tel Aviv University, and advising the chiefs of Israel's scientific-security circle as well as prime ministers and cabinet members.\n\nIn 1967 when the Israeli nuclear program was nearing completion, Teller informed Neeman that he was going to tell the CIA that Israel had built nuclear weapons, and explain that it was justified by the background of the Six-Day War. After Neeman cleared it with Prime Minister Levi Eshkol, Teller briefed the head of the CIA's Office of Science and Technology, Carl Duckett. It took a year for Teller to convince the CIA that Israel had obtained nuclear capability; the information then went through CIA Director Richard Helms to the president at that time, Lyndon B. Johnson. Teller also persuaded them to end the American attempts to inspect the Negev Nuclear Research Center in Dimona. In 1976 Duckett testified in Congress before the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, that after receiving information from \"American scientist\", he drafted a National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on Israel's nuclear capability.\n\nIn the 1980s, Teller again visited Israel to advise the Israeli government on building a nuclear reactor. Three decades later, Teller confirmed that it was during his visits that he concluded that Israel was in possession of nuclear weapons. After conveying the matter to the U.S. government, Teller reportedly said: \"They [Israel] have it, and they were clever enough to trust their research and not to test, they know that to test would get them into trouble.\"\n\nTeller suffered a heart attack in 1979, and blamed it on Jane Fonda, who had starred in \"The China Syndrome\", which depicted a fictional reactor accident and was released less than two weeks before the Three Mile Island accident. She spoke out against nuclear power while promoting the film. After the accident, Teller acted quickly to lobby in favor of nuclear energy, testifying to its safety and reliability, and soon after one flurry of activity suffered the attack. He signed a two-page-spread ad in the July 31, 1979, \"Wall Street Journal\" with the headline \"I was the only victim of Three-Mile Island\". It opened with:\n\nIn the 1980s, Teller began a strong campaign for what was later called the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), derided by critics as \"Star Wars,\" the concept of using ground and satellite-based lasers, particle beams and missiles to destroy incoming Soviet ICBMs. Teller lobbied with government agencies—and got the approval of President Ronald Reagan—for a plan to develop a system using elaborate satellites which used atomic weapons to fire X-ray lasers at incoming missiles—as part of a broader scientific research program into defenses against nuclear weapons.\n\nScandal erupted when Teller (and his associate Lowell Wood) were accused of deliberately overselling the program and perhaps had encouraged the dismissal of a laboratory director (Roy Woodruff) who had attempted to correct the error. His claims led to a joke which circulated in the scientific community, that a new unit of unfounded optimism was designated as the teller; one teller was so large that most events had to be measured in nanotellers or picotellers.\n\nMany prominent scientists argued that the system was futile. Hans Bethe, along with IBM physicist Richard Garwin and Cornell University colleague Kurt Gottfried, wrote an article in \"Scientific American\" which analyzed the system and concluded that any putative enemy could disable such a system by the use of suitable decoys that would cost a very small fraction of the SDI program.\n\nIn 1987 Teller published a book supporting civil defense and active protection systems such as SDI which was titled \"Better a Shield than a Sword\" and his views on the role of lasers in SDI were published, and are available, in two 1986-7 laser conference proceedings.\n\nFollowing the 1994 Shoemaker-Levy 9 comet impacts with Jupiter, Teller proposed to a collective of U.S. and Russian ex-Cold War weapons designers in a 1995 planetary defense workshop at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL), that they collaborate to design a 1 gigaton nuclear explosive device, which would be equivalent to the kinetic energy of a 1 km diameter asteroid. In order to safeguard the earth, the theoretical 1 Gt device would weigh about 25–30 tons, hence light enough to be lifted on the Russian Energia rocket and it could be used to instantaneously vaporize a 1 km asteroid, divert the paths of extinction event class asteroids (greater than 10 km in diameter) within a few months of short notice, while with 1-year notice, at an interception location no closer than Jupiter, it would also be capable of dealing with the even rarer short period comets which can come out of the Kuiper belt and transit past Earth orbit within 2 years. For comets of this class, with a maximum estimated 100 km diameter, Charon served as the hypothetical threat.\n\nTeller died in Stanford, California on September 9, 2003, at the age of 95. He had suffered a stroke two days before and had long been suffering from a number of conditions related to his advanced age.\n\nA wish for his 100th birthday, made around the time of his 90th, was for Lawrence Livermore's scientists to give him \"excellent predictions-calculations and experiments-about the interiors of the planets\".\n\nIn his early career, Teller made contributions to nuclear and molecular physics, spectroscopy (the Jahn–Teller and Renner–Teller effects), and surface physics. His extension of Fermi's theory of beta decay (in the form of the so-called Gamow–Teller transitions) provided an important stepping stone in the applications of this theory. The Jahn–Teller effect and the BET theory have retained their original formulation and are still mainstays in physics and chemistry. Teller also made contributions to Thomas–Fermi theory, the precursor of density functional theory, a standard modern tool in the quantum mechanical treatment of complex molecules.\n\nTeller's vigorous advocacy for strength through nuclear weapons, especially when so many of his wartime colleagues later expressed regret about the arms race, made him an easy target for the \"mad scientist\" stereotype. In 1991 he was awarded one of the first Ig Nobel Prizes for Peace in recognition of his \"lifelong efforts to change the meaning of peace as we know it\". He was also rumored to be one of the inspirations for the character of Dr. Strangelove in Stanley Kubrick's 1964 satirical film of the same name (others speculated to be RAND theorist Herman Kahn,\nmathematician John von Neumann, rocket scientist Wernher von Braun, and Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara). In the aforementioned \"Scientific American\" interview from 1999, he was reported as having bristled at the question: \"My name is not Strangelove. I don't know about Strangelove. I'm not interested in Strangelove. What else can I say?... Look. Say it three times more, and I throw you out of this office.\" In one episode of Mission Hill (1999), a character appears to be inspired by Edward Teller. The character is very old, has pictures of himself and other scientists in his home office and is known as the father of the nuclear bomb.\n\nNobel Prize winning physicist Isidor I. Rabi once suggested that \"It would have been a better world without Teller.\" In addition, Teller's false claims that Stanislaw Ulam made no significant contribution to the development of the hydrogen bomb (despite Ulam's key insights of using compression and staging elements to generate the thermonuclear reaction) and his personal attacks on Oppenheimer caused great animosity towards Teller within the general physics community.\n\nIn 1981, Teller became a founding member of the World Cultural Council.\n\nIn 1986, he was awarded the United States Military Academy's Sylvanus Thayer Award. He was elected a member of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences in 1948. He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and the American Nuclear Society. Among the honors he received were the Albert Einstein Award in 1958, the Enrico Fermi Award in 1962, the Eringen Medal in 1980, the Harvey Prize in 1975, the National Medal of Science in 1983, the Presidential Citizens Medal in 1989, and the in 2001. He was also named as part of the group of \"U.S. Scientists\" who were \"Time\" magazine's People of the Year in 1960, and an asteroid, 5006 Teller, is named after him. He was awarded with the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President George W. Bush in 2003, less than two months before his death.\n\nHis final paper, published posthumously, advocated the construction of a prototype liquid fluoride thorium reactor. The genesis and impetus for this last paper, was recounted by the co-author Ralph Moir in 2007.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5406590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5406590", "title": "Elemore Morgan Jr.", "text": "Elemore Morgan Jr.\n\nElemore Morgan Jr. (August 6, 1931 - May 18, 2008) was recognized among the South's landscape artists. His paintings of rice farms in Vermilion Parish have been widely exhibited from Paris to Los Angeles.\n\nBorn in Baton Rouge, Louisiana as an only child, he was raised on his grandfather's farm which influenced his affinity for nature and the rural life of Louisiana. His father influenced his decision to become an artist. Elemore Morgan Sr., a full-time photographer, had also worked and farmed with Louisiana architect A. Hays Town. At Louisiana State University and studied art under the tutelage of Caroline Durieux, Ralston Crawford and David LeDoux. For two years he served in the U.S. Air Force as a supply officer during the Korean War. With the help of the GI Bill, Morgan studied art at The Ruskin School of Drawing and Fine Art at the University of Oxford in England. In 1957 he returned to Louisiana began working in Lafayette with longtime friend and architect Neil Nehrbass. He served as an associate professor from 1965 to 1998 at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette (then named the University of Southwestern Louisiana).\n\nMorgan was renowned for his en plein air landscape paintings often in the heart of the rice growing region of southwest Louisiana. Many of Morgan’s landscapes were acrylic on oddly shaped Masonite panels, cut to fit his vision of the land, which he felt were integral to the design and composition of his works.\n\nMorgan contributed photography for a 1984 book titled \"The Makers of Cajun Music\", which he co-produced with Cajun folklorist Barry Jean Ancelet, who wrote the text.\n\nMorgan mused that his sense of nature affected his subject: \"If you have more nature and less man, it’s going to have a certain effect on you. If you live in the city and you hardly see the sky, you’re going to think different. From growing up on that family farm and getting a real strong dose of nature, I need it to function. I also find that I’m in much better shape mentally if I’m out in nature on a regular basis.\"\n\nMorgan's paintings and drawings were featured in \"Where Land Meets Sky,\" an exhibit at the Paul and Lulu Hilliard University Art Museum, The University of Louisiana at Lafayette. The exhibit combined his works with the poetry of Darrell Bourque. It ran May 28-July 31, 1999. A book published on the exhibit includes an essay by Dr. Steven Bradley.\n\nIn 2007, Louisiana artist Brian Guidry traveled with Morgan to New York City to help facilitate Morgan’s America project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "378014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378014", "title": "Fayez Banihammad", "text": "Fayez Banihammad\n\nFayez Rashid Ahmed Hassan al-Qadi Banihammad (, ) (March 19, 1977 – September 11, 2001) was one of five hijackers aboard United Airlines Flight 175 as part of the September 11 attacks.\n\nBorn in the United Arab Emirates, Banihammad left his family to pursue relief work. Using the Visa Express program, Banihammad obtained a U.S. tourist visa.\n\nBanihammad arrived in the United States in June 2001. On September 11, 2001, Banihammad boarded United Airlines Flight 175 and participated in the hijacking of the plane, so it could be flown into the South Tower of the World Trade Center.\n\nBoth Banihammad and the media would often refer to him by one of his aliases, including \"Fayez Ahmad\", \"Banihammad Fayez Abu Dhabi Banihammad\", \"Fayez Rashid Ahmed\", \"Rasid Ahmed Hassen Alqadi\", \"Abu Dhabi Banihammad Ahmed Fayez\", and others.\n\nBanihammad was from Khor Fakkan in the United Arab Emirates and was born to Muhammad Fayez Banihammad, a school principal. Banihammad typically went by the name \"Ahmed\".\n\nFayez (Ahmed) told his parents, while spending time in 'Asir, that he hoped to find work with the International Islamic Relief Organization. He only contacted his parents once after that. He is believed to have visited the Philippines for three days from October 17–20, 2000.\n\nBanihammad, together with Saeed al-Ghamdi, gained entry to the US via the Visa Express program. Upon later review of his application, it was noticed that he had not listed an occupation or reason for visit, and when asked where he would be living in the country, simply wrote \"No\". However, he still received the visa.\n\nBefore the pair arrived in Orlando, Florida on June 27, 2001, Banihammad had opened a bank account in the UAE to which $30,000 was deposited by unknown parties only two days before his arrival. He opened another account with SunTrust Banks in Orlando several days after his arrival, becoming one of nine hijackers to open an account with the bank.\n\nKnown as Abu Ahmed al-Imaraati during the preparations, the 9/11 Commission noted: \"He appears to have played a unique role among the muscle hijackers because of his work with one of the plot's financial facilitators, Mustafa al-Hawsawi.\" On July 18, Banihammad gave Mustafa power-of-attorney over his Dubai bank account, and Mustafa reportedly mailed him a VISA and bank card.\n\nPossibly a licensed pilot, a man with his name was registered as having trained at the Spartan Aeronautics School in Tulsa, Oklahoma, although the school denies that he ever attended, indicating a possible case of mistaken identity.\n\nFayez Banihammad purchased both his and Mohand al-Shehri's one-way first class tickets for United Airlines Flight 175 online on August 27 or 29, charging the $4464.50 to a Visa card from Mustafa al-Hawsawi, listing both of their addresses as a Mail Boxes Etc. in Delray Beach. This was not the same postal box used by Hamza and Ahmed al-Ghamdi who purchased their tickets for the same flight a day later with another Mailboxes Etc. postal box in Delray Beach, although both groups listed the same phone number.\n\nStaying in the Milner Hotel from September 8–10, Banihammad asked a hotel clerk to fill out the registration card for the room, citing his poor English. On September 10, 2001, he shared a room with four hijackers; Mohand al-Shehri, Marwan al-Shehhi and Satam al-Suqami at the Milner Hotel in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nOn September 11, Banihammad boarded Flight 175, he sat in seat 2A, adjacent to Shehri. About a half an hour into the flight, the plane was hijacked and subsequently flown into the south tower of the World Trade Center.\n\nAfter the attacks it was reported by ABC News that somebody with the same name had attended the Defense Language Institute at Lackland Air Force Base - a claim that may have been born of a false address Banihammad had used.\n\n"}
{"id": "34028280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34028280", "title": "Françoise-Marie Jacquelin", "text": "Françoise-Marie Jacquelin\n\nFrançoise-Marie Jacquelin (1602 – 1645) was an Acadian heroine and wife of Charles de Saint-Étienne de la Tour.\n\nFrançoise-Marie Jacquelin was born in 1602. According to Charles de Menou d'Aulnay, Jacquelin was the daughter of an actress in Paris. According to others, she was the daughter of a doctor, and was born in Nogent-le-Rotrou, or that she was the daughter of a businesswoman. There is no evidence to support these allegations.\n\nIn 1640 she sailed from France to Port Royal to marry de la Tour. They settled at Fort la Tour at the mouth of the Saint John River.\n\nJacquelin quickly became involved in the Acadian Civil War, her husband's struggle with Charles de Menou d'Aulnay for control of Acadia. She evaded a blockade d'Aulnay had established and returned to France to plead her husband's case to the king. She returned to Acadia with a warship laden with supplies for Fort la Tour.\n\nIn 1645, while la Tour was in Boston, d'Aulnay attacked the fort. Jacquelin assumed command of the garrison there, refused to surrender, and led a pitched three-day battle to defend the fort. On the fourth day, with the walls of the fort breached and having taken heavy casualties, Jacquelin surrendered. D'Aulnay executed the surviving soldiers. Madame de La Tour was forced to watch the hangings. She died three weeks later.\n\n"}
{"id": "6623298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6623298", "title": "Gennaios Kolokotronis", "text": "Gennaios Kolokotronis\n\nIoannis Kolokotronis (; 1805–1868), or Gennaios Kolokotronis () as the other were calling him was a Greek warrior of the Greek War of Independence, general and the 14th Prime Minister of Greece. He was born at Stemnitsa, Arcadia, but he grew up at Zakynthos.\nHe was a son of Theodoros Kolokotronis and his mother was Aikaterini Karousou ().\nHe acquired the nickname \"Gennaios\" (meaning \"brave\") during the Greek War of Independence in which he fought valiantly despite his youth. \nHe took part at the Siege of Tripolitsa, together with his father.\n\nDuring the civil wars he sided with his father.\n\nKolokotronis served as the aide de camp of King Otto with the rank of Major General, and was appointed by Otto as his last Prime Minister at 1862. He died on May 23, 1868.\n\nHe married the sister of Kitsos Tzavelas, Photini Tzavela and together they had 2 sons and 5 daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "33257908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33257908", "title": "Hamza al-Ghamdi", "text": "Hamza al-Ghamdi\n\nHamza al-Ghamdi (, , also transliterated as Alghamdi) (November 18, 1980 – September 11, 2001) was one of five hijackers of United Airlines Flight 175 as part of the September 11 attacks.\n\nBorn in Saudi Arabia, Hamza left his family to fight in Chechnya and was probably sent to al-Qaeda training camps in Afghanistan where he was chosen to participate in the 9/11 attacks.\n\nHe arrived in the United States in May 2001 on a tourist visa. On September 11, 2001, Hamza boarded United Airlines Flight 175 and hijacked the plane along with four other terrorists so that the plane could be crashed into the South Tower of the World Trade Center.\n\nSome reports say that Hamza left his home to fight in Chechnya against the Russians in early 2000. (Other reports say he left in January 2001.) He called home several times until mid-2001, saying he was in Chechnya.\n\nKnown as \"Julaybeeb\" during the preparations, Hamza traveled to the United Arab Emirates some time in late 2000, where he purchased traveler's cheques presumed to have been paid for by Mustafa al-Hawsawi. Five other hijackers also passed through the UAE and purchased travellers cheques, including Majed Moqed, Saeed al-Ghamdi, Wail al-Shehri, Ahmed al-Haznawi and Ahmed al-Nami.\n\nIn January 2001, Ghamdi rented a post office box in Delray Beach, Florida with another hijacker, Mohand al-Shehri. According to FBI director Robert Mueller and the 9/11 Commission however, Hamza did not first enter the United States until a London flight on May 28 with Mohand and Abdulaziz al-Omari.\n\nIn March 2001, Ghamdi was filmed in a farewell video that was aired on al Jazeera. In the video, many future 9/11 hijackers swear to become martyrs, although no details of the plot are revealed. Ghamdi does not speak in the film, but is seen studying maps and flight manuals.\nHe was one of 9 hijackers to open a SunTrust bank account with a cash deposit around June 2001. Ghamdi also applied for and received a Florida driver's license on June 27, 2001. In the next two months, he obtained two duplicate licenses simply by filling out change-of-address forms. Five other suspected hijackers also receive duplicate Florida licenses in 2001, and others had licenses in different states. Some have speculated that this was to allow multiple persons to use the same identity.\n\nGhamdi purchased his own eTicket for Flight 175 on August 29, using his Visa card. The FBI also claimed that he also purchased an eTicket for a \"Flight 7950\" from Los Angeles to San Francisco, although it does not give the projected date of flight.\n\nOn August 30, Hamza bought Ahmed al-Ghamdi an identical eTicket for Flight 175, 93,11,77\n\nand bought them each one-way tickets on an AirTran flight on September 7, from Fort Lauderdale to Boston. However, Ghamdi instead went with Mohand al-Shehri to Newark, New Jersey on $139.75 tickets purchased from the Mile High Travel agency in Lauderdale-by-the-Sea.\n\nHamza and Ahmed al-Ghamdi stayed at the Charles Hotel in Cambridge, Massachusetts. On September 8 they checked out of the hotel, and moved into the Days Hotel on Soldiers Field Road in Brighton, Boston, Massachusetts where they remained up until the attacks.\n\nOn the morning of September 11, 2001, Hamza left the hotel with Ahmed al-Ghamdi. The two men shared a taxicab to get to Logan International Airport, where they boarded Flight 175. Hamza and Ahmed pushed the passengers and crew to the back of the plane while Fayez Banihammad and al-Shehri killed the pilots Victor Saracini and Michael Horrocks allowing al-Shehhi to take control of the plane.\n\nOn September 22, 2001, Arab News reported that Hamza al-Ghamdi's father told the Al-Watan newspaper that an \"FBI-released\" photograph bore absolutely no resemblance to his son. However, the picture Ghamdi's father refers to is assumed to have not been a picture released by the FBI, as they did not make the hijacker's pictures available until September 27, 2001.\n\nHe appeared in a video released on September 8, 2006, that showed the planning of the attacks.\n\n"}
{"id": "221545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221545", "title": "Isaac Luria", "text": "Isaac Luria\n\nIsaac (ben Solomon) Luria Ashkenazi (1534 – July 25, 1572) ( \"Yitzhak Ben Sh'lomo Lurya Ashkenazi\"), commonly known in Jewish religious circles as \"Ha'ARI\" (meaning \"The Lion\"), \"Ha'ARI Hakadosh\" [the holy ARI] or \"ARIZaL\" [the ARI, Of Blessed Memory (Zikhrono Livrakha)], was a foremost rabbi and Jewish mystic in the community of Safed in the Galilee region of Ottoman Syria. He is considered the father of contemporary Kabbalah, his teachings being referred to as Lurianic Kabbalah. While his direct literary contribution to the Kabbalistic school of Safed was extremely minute (he wrote only a few poems), his spiritual fame led to their veneration and the acceptance of his authority. The works of his disciples compiled his oral teachings into writing. Every custom of the Ari was scrutinized, and many were accepted, even against previous practice.\n\nLuria died at Safed on July 25, 1572, and is buried at the Old Jewish Cemetery, Safed.\n\nThe Ari Ashkenazi Synagogue, located in Safed, Israel, was built in memory of Luria during the late 16th century.\n\nLuria was born in 1534 in Jerusalem in what is now the Old Yishuv Court Museum to an Ashkenazi father, Solomon, and a Sephardic mother.\n\n\"Sefer HaKavanot U'Ma'aseh Nissim\" records that one day Luria's father remained in the Beth kneset alone, studying, when Eliyahu HaNavi appeared to him and said, \"I have been sent to you by the Almighty to bring you tidings that your holy wife shall conceive and bear a child, and that you must call him Yitzchak. He shall begin to deliver Israel from the Klipot [husks, forces of evil]. Through him, numerous souls will receive their tikkun. He is also destined to reveal many hidden mysteries in the Torah and to expound on the Zohar. His fame will spread throughout the world. Take care therefore that you not circumcise him before I come to be the Sandak [who holds the child during the Brit Milah ceremony].\"\n\nWhile still a child, Luria lost his father, and was brought up by his rich maternal uncle Mordechai Frances, a tax-farmer from Cairo, Egypt. His uncle placed him under the best Jewish teachers, including the leading rabbinic scholar David ibn Zimra. Luria showed himself a diligent student of rabbinical literature and under the guidance of another uncle, Rabbi Bezalel Ashkenazi (best known as the author of \"Shittah Mekubetzet\"), he became proficient in that branch of Jewish learning.\n\nAt the age of fifteen, he married a cousin, the daughter of Mordechai Frances and, being amply provided for financially, he was able to continue his studies. Though he initially may have pursued a career in business, he soon turned to asceticism and mysticism. Around the age of twenty-two he became engrossed in the study of the Zohar (a major work of the Kabbalah that had recently been printed for the first time) and adopted the life of a recluse. Retreating to the banks of the Nile for seven years, he secluded himself in an isolated cottage, giving himself up entirely to meditation. He visited his family only on Shabbat. But even at home, he would not utter a word, even to his wife. When it was necessary for him to say something, he would say it in the fewest number of words possible, and then, only in Hebrew.\n\nIn 1569, Luria moved back to Eretz Israel; and after a short sojourn in Jerusalem, where his new kabbalistic system seemed to have met with little success, he settled in Safed. Safed over the previous decades had become a center for cabalistic studies, led by Rabbi Moses Cordovero. There is evidence that Luria also regarded Cordovero as his teacher. Joseph Sambari (1640–1703), an important Egyptian chronicler, testified that Cordovero was \"the Ari's teacher for a very short time.\" Luria probably arrived in early 1570, and Cordovero died on June 27 that year (the 23d day of Tammuz). Bereft of their most prominent authority and teacher, the community looked for new guidance, and Luria helped fill Cordovero's former role.\n\nSoon Luria had two classes of disciples: novices, to whom he expounded the elementary Kabbalah, and initiates, who became the repositories of his secret teachings and his formulas of invocation and conjuration. The most renowned of the initiates was Rabbi Hayyim Vital, who, according to his master, possessed a soul which had not been soiled by Adam's sin. With him Luria visited the grave of Rabbi Shimon bar Yochai and those of other eminent teachers; it is said that these graves were unmarked (the identity of each grave was unknown), but through the guidance given by Elijah each grave was recognized. Luria's kabbalistic circle gradually widened and became a separate congregation, in which his mystic doctrines were supreme, influencing all the religious ceremonies. On Shabbat, Luria dressed himself in white and wore a fourfold garment to signify the four letters of the Ineffable Name.\n\nMany Jews who had been exiled from Spain following the Edict of Expulsion believed they were in the time of trial that would precede the appearance of the Messiah in Galilee. Those who moved to Israel in anticipation of this event found a great deal of comfort in Luria’s teachings, due to his theme of exile. Although he did not write down his teachings, they were published by his followers and by 1650 his ideas were known by Jews throughout Europe.\n\nLuria used to deliver his lectures extemporaneously and did not write much, with a few exceptions, including some kabbalistic poems in Aramaic for the Shabbat table. The real exponent of his kabbalistic system was Rabbi Hayyim Vital. He collected all the notes of the lectures which Luria's disciples had made; and from these notes were produced numerous works, the most important of which was the \"\", (\"Tree of Life\"), in eight volumes (see below). At first, this circulated in manuscript copies; and each of Luria's disciples had to pledge himself, under pain of excommunication, not to allow a copy to be made for a foreign country; so that for a time all the manuscripts remained in Israel. At last, however, one was brought to Europe and was published at Zolkiev in 1772 by Isaac Satanow. In this work are expounded on both the theoretical and the devotional, meditative teachings of Lurianic Kabbalah based on the Zohar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "349921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=349921", "title": "James Puckle", "text": "James Puckle\n\nJames Puckle (1667–1724) was an English inventor, lawyer and writer from London chiefly remembered for his invention of the \"Defence Gun\", better known as the \"Puckle gun\", a multi-shot gun mounted on a stand capable of (depending on which version) firing up to nine rounds per minute. The Puckle gun is one of the first weapons referred to as a machine gun (though its operation does not match the modern definition of the term) and resembles a large revolver.\n\nPuckle's best-known literary work (reprinted as recently as 1900) was \"The Club\", a moral dialogue between a father and son.\n\nIn 1718, Puckle patented his new invention, the \"Defence Gun\" — a tripod-mounted, single-barreled flintlock weapon fitted with a multishot revolving cylinder, designed for shipboard use to prevent boarding. The barrel was long with a bore of and a pre-loaded cylinder which held 6-11 charges and could fire 63 shots in seven minutes—this at a time when the standard soldier's musket could at best be loaded and fired five times per minute.\n\nPuckle demonstrated two versions of the basic design: one, intended for use against Christian enemies, fired conventional round bullets, while the second variant, designed to be used against the Muslim Turks, fired square bullets which were considered to be more damaging and would, according to its patent, convince the Turks of the \"benefits of Christian civilization.\"\n\nThe Puckle Gun drew few investors and never achieved mass production or sales to the British armed forces. One leaflet of the period sarcastically observed, following the business venture's failure, that the gun has \"only wounded those who hold shares therein.\"\n\nAccording to the Patent Office of the United Kingdom, \"In the reign of Queen Anne, the law officers of the Crown established as a condition of patent that the inventor must in writing describe the invention and the manner in which it works.\" James Puckle's 1718 patent, number 418, was one of the first to provide such a description.\n\nJohn Montagu, 2nd Duke of Montagu, Master-General of the Ordnance (1740-9), purchased at least two for an ill-fated expedition in 1722 to capture St Lucia and St Vincent. One remains on display at Boughton House and another at Beaulieu Palace (both former Montagu homes).\n\nThere is a replica of a Puckle Gun at Bucklers Hard Maritime Museum in Hampshire.\n\nBlackmore's \"British Military Firearms 1650–1850\" lists \"Puckle’s brass gun in the Tower of London\" as illustration 77: This appears to have been one of the Montagu guns on loan to the Tower at the time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6905730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6905730", "title": "Jeannette Vermeersch", "text": "Jeannette Vermeersch\n\nJeannette Vermeersch (born Julie Marie Vermeersch; 26 November 1910 – 5 November 2001) was a French politician.\n\nShe is principally known for having been the companion (1932–1947) and then the wife (1947–1964) of Maurice Thorez, general secretary of the French Communist Party (PCF), with whom she had three children, born before their union was made official.\n\nBorn in La Madeleine, Nord as the seventh of nine children in a family of workers, Jeannette Vermeersch joined the workforce at the age of ten, despite the fact that at the time, children under the age of 13 were legally prohibited from working. Her first job was as a servant at a wine merchant's, then in a bourgeois family, before she entered a textile factory as a worker in 1921, all the while continuing to do chores after her hours of work at the factory.\n\nVermeersch began activity as a union activist in 1927. Through connections she formed in the union, she came to discover communism, whose growth as a movement was then in full swing in France, several years after the Tours Congress, and she founded a section of Young Communists. Her communist activity led her, in 1929, to be designated to take part in a delegation of textile workers who travelled to explore the Soviet Union. While her comrades returned to France, Jeannette Vermeersch chose to prolong her stay, remaining in Moscow for several months and working \"for the cause\". It is on this occasion that she would have heard the name of Maurice Thorez spoken for the first time in her presence, a little while before meeting him at the 16th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in 1930.\n\nTheir relationship only became intimate in 1932. During the following seven years, Jeannette Vermeersch focused on Party missions; as an agent, she was zealous but a little withdrawn. For example, under the guidance of Jacques Duclos, she organised an extraordinary congress of Communist Youth in 1933, retaking control of a movement suspected of drifting in an \"avant-gardist\" direction. She was also one of the pivotal members of a new organisation that the Party had asked to be formed, the Union of Young French Women. After the Spanish Civil War began in 1936, she also focused very clearly on getting together a network of people in solidarity with the Second Spanish Republic, in addition to her other responsibilities. She headed the operation that sent food and various materials to the Republicans and organised the welcome of political refugees on French soil by the Communist networks present in small French towns.\n\nOn 2 October 1939, shortly after World War II began, she accompanied Mounette Dutilleul, who had come to Chauny to bring Maurice Thorez orders to desert, issued by the Third International. Escorted by Alphonse Pelayo, they left together toward the Nord \"\", but crossed the Belgian border separately. Jeannette Vermeersch and her two young sons joined Maurice Thorez in Moscow. They remained in the USSR until November 1944. Jeannette gave birth to a third son in a clinic near Moscow.\n\nIn 1945, after her return to France, Jeannette Vermeersch was elected a deputy to the constituent assembly that met from 21 October 1945 to 5 May 1946, until the first proposal for a new French constitution was rejected by referendum. She was then elected, without interruption, to every sitting of the National Assembly until 1958, then moving up to the Senate, where she sat until 1968.\n\nOn 17 September 1947, Maurice Thorez and Jeannette Vermeersch made their union official at the city hall of Choisy-le-Roi (today in Val-de-Marne département). In 1950, when Maurice Thorez was stricken with hemiplegia and left to seek treatment in the USSR, Jeannette Vermeersch entered the Politburo of the French Communist Party, of which she was a member until 1968.\n\nIn 1956, Jeannette Vermeersch, speaking as vice president of the Union of French Women, took a stance against birth control: \"Birth control, voluntary motherhood, is a bait for the great masses, but it is a weapon in the hands of the bourgeoisie against social laws\". This position went against that of numerous activists, notably in the medical field. Thorez took Jeannette's side in condemning neo-Malthusian conjectures.\n\nAfter Thorez died in 1964, she was often very critical of the new direction taken by general secretary Waldeck Rochet, and decided to resign from the Politburo in 1968 after Rochet expressed disapproval for the intervention of Warsaw Pact troops in Czechoslovakia to put an end to the Prague Spring. On the same occasion she ended her political career, nevertheless remaining an activist of the base, renewing her Communist Party membership until her death.\n\nAfter her death and cremation, her ashes were transferred to Paris, to the Père Lachaise Cemetery, into the tomb of Maurice Thorez.\n\nOn the occasion of her death, the heads of the party, Robert Hue (party president) and Marie-George Buffet (national secretary and Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports) underlined that, although they disagreed with the deceased on a number of points, they still saluted the unflappability of her convictions and the permanence of her involvement.\n\nAfter 1950, Jeannette Vermeersch also used the name Jeannette Thorez-Vermeersch, but she is usually known by her historical pseudonym, notably within the Communist Party. She never used the name Jeannette Thorez.\n\nShe died in Callian, Var.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54748314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54748314", "title": "Jim Porter (giant)", "text": "Jim Porter (giant)\n\nJames D. Porter, known as \"Big Jim\" Porter (December 15, 1811 – April 25, 1859) was an American tavern keeper and coach driver. in the mid-nineteenth century and internationally famous as the tallest man in the country. Porter stood 7 feet 8 inches tall, weighed 300 pounds, had hands 13 inches long from the wrist to the tip of the middle finger and feet that were 14 ½ inches long.  Upon meeting him, Charles Dickens wrote in his 1842 travelogue \"American Notes and Pictures of Italy\" that Porter walked in a crowd as a lighthouse among lampposts.\n\nLouisville area doctors gathered in 2006 to review Porter's medical profile. Their conclusion suggests that Porter had a hormone disorder called acromegaly, which affects about three out of every one million people. Acromegaly or gigantism results from a tumor (usually benign) pressing on the pituitary gland releasing an excessive amount of growth hormones.  \n\nBorn James D. Porter on December 15, 1811 in Portsmouth, Ohio, Porter moved to Shippingport, Kentucky with his family as an infant where his father sought work at the Tarascon Mill.\n\nSmall as a child, Porter began his career at age 14 as a jockey at the Elm Tree Garden horse track on Shippingport Island.\n\nPorter began his rapid and visibly noticeable growth at age 17, sometimes growing as much as one inch in a week. It became customary for the town locals to place bets on his growth. Ever the good sport, Porter allowed himself to be weighed and measured every Saturday night. By age 30, Porter had reached his full height and weight.\n\nOriginally apprenticed as a cooper, Porter gave up the trade as his quickly growing limbs made him clumsy and wobbly. Switching to building hog heads of tobacco wasn't much easier, so Porter turned to driving a hackney full of cargo or passengers along the Portland & Louisville Turnpike. Witnesses say Porter's legs dangled to just a few inches off the ground looking as if there was a person on top and another person lower. To open the door of the coach he simply leaned over from his seat.\n\nCapitalizing on his unusual size, traveled the East Coast performing a play based on Gulliver's Travels. He found the traveling life uncomfortable for a man his size and returned to Shippingport vowing never to travel again According to his niece Lily Levi, \"Not a chair was tall enough, not a bed was long enough, not a table was high enough.\" Like any celebrity, Porter had a love-hate relationship with the public attention. At times, he was uncomfortable with the attention, yet he often traveled around town performing small skits and appearing at local events.\n\nWhile exploring the United States with his wife, Charles Dickens sent word requesting an appearance by Porter aboard Dicken's steamship. Porter returned the message stating that Dickens wants to see me more than I him, then he will come to me.\n\nUpon reading Dicken's account of Porter, P. T. Barnum offered Porter a position traveling in his famous circus. Porter declined.\n\nPorter opened his first tavern, The Lone Star, in 1836 near the Portland Canal in Louisville.\n\nProspering early, he built a bigger tavern on Front Street in Shippingport. The massive building was three stories tall with 18 rooms and 10' ceilings. The Big Gun Tavern was to be the grandest hotel in the South. Porter's tavern was built by 1848, complete with custom made furniture designed to fit his build.\n\nUnfortunately, Porter's endeavor failed as steamboat traffic eventually gave way to the growing train traffic.\n\nPorter was found dead in his bed on the morning of April 25, 1859, as a family member attempted to rouse him for breakfast. It is believed that he died of heart disease as a complication of acromegaly.\n\nA special coffin 9 feet long and 2 feet wide at the breast was made for Porter and the rear doors had to be tied shut as the hearse lead a parade like a procession to Cave Hill Cemetery on April 28, 1859.\n\nHe was survived by his mother, by then the wife of Capt. Harrington, brother, and sister.\n\nEver the spectacle, visitors from around the world peered into the ornamental door of the family vault to see the contrast of Porter's casket next to the casket of normal size. The vault soon fell into disrepair and was torn down by 1900. Today only a concrete marker remains.\n"}
{"id": "33744508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33744508", "title": "Jiske Griffioen", "text": "Jiske Griffioen\n\nJiske Griffioen (born 17 April 1985) is a Dutch former wheelchair tennis player. Griffioen is a thirteen-time Grand Slam champion in doubles and a three-time Paralympic medalist. She is also a seven-time Masters doubles champion and a former world number one. Alongside Aniek van Koot, Griffioen completed the Grand Slam in doubles in the 2013 season. In singles competition Griffioen is the 2012 Masters champion and the 2015 Australian Open, French Open and Masters champion and a former world number one.\n\nGriffioen was born with spina bifida and also played wheelchair basketball representing her nation at the 2000 Summer Paralympics in Sydney at the age of 14.\n\nIn 2001 Griffioen won three singles draws in as many weeks when she won the second draw in Zoetermeer, followed by the consolation draw in Jambes and the second draw in Amsterdam. Griffioen did not win another tournament draw until she won the 2002 consolation draw in Nottingham. This success was followed by her first final in Antwerp where she lost to Sharon Walraven. Griffioen had further success in 2002 when she won the consolation draw in St Louis. In the 2003 season Griffioen won the consolation draw in Plock, followed by consolation draw wins at the Dutch and Swiss Opens before she lost in the final in Antwerp to Walraven. Another consolation draw win in Italy and another final defeat to Walraven in Prague followed to close the season. Griffioen finished 17th in the world rankings in 2003 having reached the last 16 of the British and US Opens during the season.\n\nIn 2004 Griffioen lost in the quarterfinals of the Australian Open super series event to Esther Vergeer. Griffioen won her first singles title in Christchurch. This was followed by more success in Bein, Cuneo, Prostejov and Amsterdam. Griffioen was the runner up in the Masters. In doubles competitions with Korie Homan she won the Masters and they were finalists in Prostejov. Griffioen also took titles with Maaike Smit in San Diego and alongside Vergeer in Japan Open and Kobe. Part of the winning team at the World team cup. As a late replacement in the Paralympic Games, Griffioen exited in the first round of the singles and the quarterfinals of the doubles with Peters.\n\nThree singles title in Nottingham, Seoul and Japan graced Griffioen in 2005. She was the runner up in Sydney, Miami, Brasilia, Paris, Dutch Open, Hilton Head, Atlanta and San Diego. Additionally Griffioen finished third at the Masters. In doubles play she won the masters doubles with Esther Vergeer; along with titles in Boca Raton, Amsterdam, Utrecht, Paris, Dutch Open, Hilton Head, Atlanta and San Diego. Nottingham with Aniek van Koot. Griffioen was also part of the Netherlands' World Team Cup success. Prostejov, with Belgium. Seoul Japan Open, Florence Gravellier double. Melbourne runner up.\n\nDuring 2006 Griffioen won one singles title in Prostejov. She made the final of singles events at the Wheelchair Classic 8's at the Australian Open and in Nottingham. Finished third in the Masters after losing in the semifinals. In doubles competitions with Vergeer, Griffioen won in Sydney, Melbourne, Boca Raton, Paris, Nottingham, Utrecht, Atlanta, San Diego and the Masters. Griffioen also won the Wheelchair Classic 8's at the Australian Open and the US Open with Vergeer. Playing alongside Maaike Smit Griffioen was the champion in Fukuoka and with Sharon Walraven she took the title in Prostejov. Inadditon with Ameryckx she won in Nottingham. Griffioen was part of the Netherlands' World Team Cup squad who won the competition for a nineteenth time.\n\nDuring singles competitions in the 2007 season Griffioen won titles in Seoul, Prostejov and St Louis. She was also the runner up in Boca Raton. At the Masters Griffioen lost in the semifinals before beating Walraven for third. With Vergeer in doubles, Griffioen won titles in Sydney, Boca Raton, Japan, Nottingham and San Diego. They also won Slam titles in Melbourne and New York; before the pair finished the year by winning their third masters doubles. As a pair they suffered defeat first time in Utrecht. Griffioen also won in Pensacola and St Louis with Walraven and finished runner up in Nottingham with van Koot. She also won in Prostejov with Gravillier. Griffioen was part of the Netherlands team that partook in the World Team Cup, winning the competition for the twentieth time.\n\nDuring singles competitions in 2008, Griffioen won two titles in Sardinia and St Louis. She also made the final in Christchurch and Torino. In the singles of the Paralympic Games, Griffioen lost in the semifinals winning just one game against Vergeer and failed to the bronze medal match against Florence Gravellier. In the Masters Griffioen lost in the semis of the singles. In doubles competitions Griffioen won both of the doubles Grand Slam titles that were played in 2008 with Vergeer; the Australian Open and Roland Garros. However the pair could only win the Silver medal at the Paralympic Games as they suffered only their second loss as a partnership. But they finished the year on a high as a pair by winning the Masters doubles. The team also won in Pensacola, Boca Raton, Fukuoka, Paris, Nottingham and Utrecht. The pair also reached the final of Sydney but this was unplayed due to rain. Additionally with van Koot, Griffioen picked up titles in Christchurch and Sardinia. Griffioen represented her nation in a triumphant campaign at the World Team Cup. Notably Griffioen's semifinal defeat to Vergeer in Utrecht marked the first time that she had taken a set off her compatriot.\n\nGriffioen reached one singles final in 2009 losing in Sydney to Korie Homan. At the slams Griffioen lost in quarterfinals of all three Grand Slam tournaments. Griffioen failed to progress beyond the group stage of the Masters and finished seventh overall. In the doubles events Griffioen lost in the semifinals of all four Grand Slam tournaments with Florence Gravellier. As a team they also reached a final in Nottingham and were victorious in Sydney and Paris. Griffioen also won titles in Utrecht and St Louis with Homan and with Buis in Sardinia. At the season ending Masters she played with Aniek van Koot and reached the final. Griffioen helped her nation win the World Team Cup.\n\nStarting the 2010 season Griffioen won three tournaments early in the season in Adelaide, Brisbane and Sydney before winning only once more in Sardinia. Griffioen also reached the final in Nottingham and St. Louis.\n\n2011 was a highly successful year as Griffioen won two singles tournaments and seven doubles titles. Griffioen's singles success came at the Japan Open, defeating Buis in the final, and at the Open Memorial Santi Silvas, beating Sabine Ellerbrock. Griffioen also reached the final of the singles competitions in Sydney, Pansacola, Nottingham and St Louis. In the Grand Slams Griffioen was eliminated at the semifinals of all three events. At the Masters Griffioen lost in the semifinals of the singles to van Koot, but went on to defeat Buis to claim third. Partnering van Koot in the doubles events the pair won titles in Sydney, Pensacola, Boca Raton, Paris, Nottingham and St. Louis. Griffioen, in addition, won a doubles title with Sevenans in Olot. With van Koot, Griffioen lost in the final of all four Grand Slams to Esther Vergeer and Sharon Walraven, including from 5–2 up in the final set at Wimbledon and a 6–1 second set tiebreak lead at the US Open. Additionally the pair also lost in the final of the Japan Open and the Masters. At the end of 2011 she became Amsterdam Sportswoman of the year.\nDuring the 2012 season Griffioen claimed two singles titles; with this successes coming in Atlanta and Nottingham. She was also the runner up in Cajan. At the Paralympic Games, Griffioen reached the semifinal of the singles where she lost to Vergeer, however she went on to take bronze, her first singles medal in three games, defeating Ellerbrock. At the end of season Masters in the absence of Vergeer, Griffioen reached her second final and defeated van Koot for her first title. In doubles play Griffioen teamed up with van Koot, the pair won six titles including in Cajan, Pensacola, Paris and Nottingham. The pair won their first Grand Slam as a team at Wimbledon and claimed the Silver medal at the Paralympics. To finish the year the pair claimed their first Masters doubles title as a team. In the second Grand Slam event of the year Griffioen exited both singles and doubles events in the semifinals. Griffioen also represented her country in the World Team Cup, where she guided her country to win the competition for the 25th time.\n\nDuring the 2013 season Griffioen won singles titles in Sydney, Melbourne, Rue and Nottingham. Griffioen was also a finalist in Brisbane. During the Grand Slam events Griffioen lost a tight match to Marjolein Buis in the first round of the Australian Open; with both players having won the same amount of points. Griffioen reached the final of Roland Garros where she lost to Sabine Ellerbrock In New York Griffioen lost in the first round to van Koot. At the season ending Masters, Griffioen made it into the final, and let slip a 4–1 lead in the deciding set, to Yui Kamiji, losing the last five games of the match. With Aniek van Koot, Griffioen won the doubles title in Sydney and Nottingham. The pair won their first Australian, French and US Open titles and retained the Wimbledon crown to complete the Grand Slam. Their only defeat came in the final of St Louis, their first since the Paralympic final. At the season ending Masters, Griffioen teamed up with Sharon Walraven and finished third. At the end of the season Griffioen was named the year end World Number One for doubles. Griffioen also represented her nation at the World Team Cup and helped the Netherlands to a 26th title.\n\nGriffioen won singles titles in Sydney, Baton Rouge, St. Louis, Sardina, Rue and Nottingham during the 2014 season. Over the year, Griffioen was the losing finalist in Pensacola and Lizuka. At the Grand Slam events she lost in the semifinals of all three tournaments. At the season ending Masters, Griffioen reached the final undefeated, including a win over van Koot, who she lost to in three sets in the championship match.\n\nAt the 2015 Australian Open Griffioen won her maiden Grand Slam singles title; defeating Buis, van Koot and Yui Kamiji in straight sets to win the championship. She won again the tournament in 2016.\n\nIn October 2017 she retired stating that she did not have the fire anymore to complete. Griffioen stated that she would take up a role in the media. During Griffioen's career she won 59 singles titles and 106 doubles titles and held the World Number One spot in singles for 106 weeks between 2015 and 2017.\n"}
{"id": "48931304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48931304", "title": "John James Raven", "text": "John James Raven\n\nJohn James Raven (1833–1906) was an English cleric and headmaster, known as a writer on campanology.\n\nBorn on 25 June 1833 at Boston, Lincolnshire, he was eldest son of eight children of John Hardy Raven, rector of Worlington, Suffolk, and his wife Jane Augusta, daughter of John Richman, attorney, of Lymington, Hampshire; a younger brother, the Rev. John Hardy Raven (1842–1911), was headmaster of Beccles school. He entered St Catharine's College, Cambridge, on 18 October 1853, and migrated on 17 December following to Emmanuel College (where he was awarded first an Ash exhibition and subsequently a sizarship). He graduated B.A. as a senior optime in the Mathematical Tripos of 1857, proceeding M.A. in 1860 and D.D. in 1872.\n\nIn 1857 Raven was appointed second master of Sevenoaks grammar school, and was ordained curate of the parish church there. In 1859 he became headmaster of Bungay grammar school, a post in the gift of Emmanuel College. There raised money for a new building, which was opened in 1863. From 1866 to 1885 he was headmaster of Yarmouth grammar school. He served for some time as curate of Yarmouth parish church, and was from 1881 to 1885 vicar of St. George's in that town. In 1885 he was presented by the Master of Emmanuel to the consolidated vicarage of Fressingfield and rectory of Withersdale in Suffolk, and was admitted on 23 March 1895 (under a dispensation) to the vicarage of Metfield in the same county.\n\nRaven was chosen honorary canon of Norwich Cathedral in 1888, and rural dean of Hoxne in 1896, and a co-opted member of the County Education Committee on its formation in 1902. He served from 1881 till his death on the committee of the Norfolk and Norwich Archæological Society, which he joined in 1871, was a vice-president of the Suffolk Institute of Archæology, and was elected Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London on 23 April 1891. He died at Fressingfield vicarage on 20 September 1906, and was buried in the churchyard, A reredos was erected to his memory in the church. His pupils at Yarmouth presented him with his portrait by Alfred Lys Baldry (now belonging to his eldest son at Fressingfield), and a tower at Yarmouth school commemorated his successful headmastership. His fine library of county and bell literature was sold at Fressingfield in November 1906.\n\nWhile a youth Raven studied the bells of the churches near his home at Worlington and contributed to an \"Ecclesiastical History of Suffolk\" in 1854. He was president of the Norwich Diocesan Association of Ringers, and published books on \"The Church Bells of Cambridgeshire\" (Lowestoft, 1869; 2nd edit. Camb. Antiq. Soc. 1881), \"The Church Bells of Suffolk\" (1890), and \"The Bells of England\" (in the Antiquary's Books series, 1906). He published also \"The History of Suffolk\" (in the \"Popular County Histories\" series, 1895), and \"Mathematics made easy: Lectures on Geometry and Algebra\" (1897). He also compiled the \"Early Man\" section of the Victoria County History for Suffolk.\n\nRaven married on 19 March 1860, at Mildenhall parish church, Suffolk, Fanny, youngest daughter of Robert Homer Harris of Botesdale, and had, with two daughters, seven sons, of whom three took holy orders.\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "34286457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34286457", "title": "Kristin Shrader-Frechette", "text": "Kristin Shrader-Frechette\n\nKristin Shrader-Frechette (born 1944) is O'Neill Family Professor, Department of Biological Sciences and Department of Philosophy, at the University of Notre Dame. She has previously held senior professorships at the University of California and the University of Florida. Most of Shrader-Frechette's research work analyzes the ethical problems in risk assessment, public health, or environmental justice - especially those related to radiological, ecological, and energy-related risks. Shrader-Frechette has received the Global Citizenship Award, and the \"Catholic Digest\" named her one of 12 \"Heroes for the US and the World\".\n\nKristin Shrader-Frechette studied physics at Xavier University and graduated (summa cum laude) in 1967. She received her Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Notre Dame in 1972. Shrader-Frechette also did post-doctoral work relating to biology, economics, and hydrogeology.\n\nShrader-Frechette has published more than 380 articles and 16 books/monographs, including \"Burying Uncertainty: Risk and the Case Against Geological Disposal of Nuclear Waste\" (1993); \"Method in Ecology\" (1993); \"The Ethics of Scientific Research\" (1994), \"Technology and Human Values\" (1996), \"Environmental Justice: Creating Equality, Reclaiming Democracy\" (2002), \"Taking Action, Saving Lives: Our Duties to Protect Environmental and Public Health\" (2007), and \"What Will Work: Fighting Climate Change with Renewable Energy, Not Nuclear Power\" (2011). Her books and articles have been translated into 13 languages. Shrader-Frechette is currently working on two new volumes: \"Risks of Risk Assessment\" and \"Philosophy of Science and Public Policy\".\n\nShrader-Frechette's 2011 book \"What Will Work\" says that nuclear power is not an economic or practical technology:\n\nThis book uses market data, scientific studies, and ethical analyses to show why we should pursue green energy and conservation, and not nuclear fission, to address global climate change. Chapter 6 uses classic scientific studies from Harvard, Princeton, and the US Department of Energy to show how improved conservation and energy efficiency—along with increased use of wind and solar-PV power—can supply all energy needs while costing less than either fossil fuels or nuclear fission.\nShrader-Frechette has been a member of many boards and committees at the International level. She has been invited to address the National Academies of Science in three different countries. She has served as an advisor to numerous governments and international organizations, including the United Nations and the World Health Organization. Associate Editor of BioScience until 2002, Shrader-Frechette is Editor-in-Chief of the Oxford University Press monograph series on Environmental Ethics and Science Policy and spent two terms on the US EPA Science Advisory Board. She also serves on the editorial boards of 22 professional journals.\n\nIn 2004 Shrader-Frechette received the World Technology Award. In 2007, Catholic Digest named her one of 12 \"Heroes for the US and the World\" because of her pro-bono environmental justice work with minority and poor communities. In 2011, Tufts University gave her the Jean Mayer Global Citizenship Award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41030542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41030542", "title": "Lee–Lin rivalry", "text": "Lee–Lin rivalry\n\nThe Lee–Lin rivalry is between two badminton players, Commander (Honorary) Datuk Lee Chong Wei of Malaysia and Lieutenant colonel (Retired) Lin Dan of China. The rivalry is widely considered the greatest rivalry in badminton history.\n\nThey have played a total of 40 times, and Lin Dan leads their rivalry 28–12. Lee Chong Wei and Lin Dan are by far two of the most dominant players across three generations and many regard Lin Dan as the greatest of all time, leading to media and players alike to liken the period between 2006 and 2016 as the Lin-Lee era.\n\nAs all great athletes, they are noted for their signature playing styles with Lee famed for his incredible speed, counter-attacking prowess, crouch defence, recovery, deceptive net play and steep, hard-hitting jump smashes. Some have considered the cross-court smash as Lee's favourite shot despite its difficulty to execute and requiring extreme accuracy. Lin, on the other hand, is famed for his patience, tactical awareness in adjusting to his opponents' style of play, sudden unleashing of huge and especially heavy attacks, sliding defence and all-round court play with the occasional deceptive shot. Over the years, with the decline of fellow legend Taufik Hidayat and Danish great Peter Gade, Lee and Lin continuously adjusted their game to better suit the playing styles of each other, having already reached a level far beyond everyone else and thus began cementing their duopoly which lasted around a decade where they swatted others aside before engaging one another in epic battles repeatedly in major tournament finals consecutively until the emergence of eventual 2-time world champion and 2016 Olympic champion Chen Long and most recently 2017 world champion Viktor Axelsen as Lin and Lee enter their late 30s and twilight of their careers.\n\nIn their homeland, each hold a military rank, with Lee a Commander (Honorary) of the Royal Malaysian Navy Volunteer Reserve unit and Lin a retired Lieutenant colonel in the People's Liberation Army Sports branch, having been promoted from the ranks of Lieutenant commander and Major respectively, meaning they have the same seniority in terms of military rank. In 2015, Lin Dan announced he was to leave the PLA's Bayi Badminton Club after a 20-year service due to strict military protocols prohibiting him from partaking in any commercial activities.\n\nThey have contested in many major tournament finals and are currently the only two badminton men singles players who have contested in two Olympic finals consecutively, which saw Lin triumph both times to become the only man in history to defend his Olympic gold. Lin first won in Beijing 2008 in a one-sided final before the 2 men clashed once again 4 years later in an unprecedented but widely-anticipated repeat final at London 2012. This time around, the match was much closer with Lee drawing first blood before Lin hit back to take the match to a decider. The game swung back and forth before Lee got his nose in front at the crucial end to take a 19–18 lead. However, as fate would have it, Lee lost his mental battle once again and produced continuous errors and gifting Lin his 2nd gold, becoming the only man in men singles' to defend his gold. As Lin celebrated wildly around the arena, Lee remained motionless and teared up before his coaches consoled him to leave the court. Lee's mental strength became a glaring talking point over the years as there were numerous times when he performed better than Lin only to lose at the very end. Detractors in Malaysia often disparage Lee's unfortunate lack of stamina towards the end with labels such as \"pancut awal\". Former men doubles' world champion Steen Fladberg, who is now a commentator, once remarked that he thought Lee was the best player in London 2012 but simply lost his focus at the end. Lee went on to contest a third consecutive final after defeating Lin in their colossal 2016 Summer Olympics semi-final.\n\nThey have also contested two BWF World Championships finals, one Asian Games final and semi-final, similarly in the Badminton Asia Championships and four All England Open Badminton Championships finals where almost all matches were very close hard-fought three-setters. Their 2011 World Badminton Championship match widely touted as one of the greatest badminton matches of all the time. In the semi-finals of the 2016 Rio Olympics, most possibly the last Olympic Games of both athletes' careers, Lee Chong Wei won against Lin Dan, in his third attempt on the Olympic stage, making Lee the second shuttler in any discipline of the sport in history to reach 3 consecutive finals after Fu Haifeng who had achieved the feat a day earlier in men doubles. In the rubber game of the match, the 2 men played to near perfection going point-for-point until 16 all when Lee pulled ahead for a 19–16 and 20–17 lead, thus, holding 3 match points. In dramatic fashion reminiscence of their monumental battle in the London 2012 final, Lin saved all 3, before a mistake gave Lee a fourth match point which he converted and sinking to his knees, the match was widely touted to look and feel more of a final then the actual final match. Videos uploaded onto social media captured the overwhelming and emotional response from Malaysians watching throughout the country, further highlighting Lee's megastar and hero status in his home country. The two players then exchanged a special moment in their rivalry and exchanged shirts as they exited the court. The 2016 Rio Games marks an end in the badminton era dominated by Lee and Lin. After the epic marathon battle in the semi-final against Lin, 34-year old Lee lacked the energy for another high-level match and fell in the final against Chen Long, prompting China's then-head coach Li Yongbo to remark that Lee would have already become a world champion if he had trained under the Chinese national team. He reasoned this was due to the fact that Lee had managed to come so close countless times over the years only to be denied by Lin at the very end despite training in much-less favourable conditions compared to the well-funded Chinese national team.\n\nEarly on in their career, whenever Lin and Lee were to play one another, fans were extremely hostile towards their opposite number, often trading barbs, insults and even expletives. Occasionally, Lee had to remind fans that Lin was a personal friend of his and hoped that his fans would change their attitude towards his arch-rival. Over time, hostility became admiration, hatred became respect as fans realised that what they were witnessing was a once in a generation great sporting rivalry of the highest level and began cheering for both players, most evidently when they played in Malaysia and China. Most evidently, when Lee returned from his 8-month doping suspension to represent Malaysia in the 2015 Sudirman Cup held in Dongguan, China, he was given a rousing ovation when announced onto court to take on Lee Dong-keun. This prompted commentator, Gillian Clark, to quip, \"Listen to the crowd here, it isn't a Chinese player, it's Lee Chong Wei!\". Lee's coach Tey Seu Bock even labelled their rivalry 'limited-edition'. However, this does not stop some hardcore fans who take every opportunity that arises to disparage Lee's accomplishments and status by comparing the two and will point out the fact that Lee, the perennial World No. 1, has never won an Olympic or world title whilst Lin has won both multiple times. Unfortunately, this usually leads to heated exchanges from both sides of supporters, especially on social media. Level-headed fans will try to calm things down by reminding that this once-in-an-era rivalry has entered its final chapter and everyone should be appreciating what the two men has showcased throughout their storied careers rather than be at loggerheads till the very end. Over the years, both Lee and Lin mentioned numerous times in interviews that they would never have become what they are without the other as their motivation. Nevertheless, the pair are good friends off court, having invited one another to each other's weddings and sharing a mutual love for fast cars and watches. Among the cars that Lee owns include a crystal grey Bentley Continental GT, a white Audi R8, a white Ferrari F430, a grey Nissan Skyline GTR, Range Rover Evoque, Range Rover, yellow Lamborghini Aventador and a BMW X6 besides the cars given to him by national automaker Proton. Lin, on the other hand, has a Porsche Panamera, a grey Aston Martin DBS and also a black Nissan Skyline GTR among his vast collection of supercars.\n\nMost fans and professionals regard Lee Chong Wei and Lin Dan as among the finest shuttlers the sport has ever seen, becoming huge crowd attractions and their battles dubbed the 'Lin-Lee War'. Hence, it is widely believed that they will eventually take their place in the uppermost echelon of badminton folklore alongside legends from the yesteryears such as Wong Peng Soon, Sir George Thomas, Eddy Choong, Erland Kops, Han Jian, Rudy Hartono, Liem Swie King, Zhao Jianhua, Morten Frost, Taufik Hidayat and perhaps the greatest in the history of the sport, Yang Yang, who are among the handful who have reached the peak of badminton, and inducted into the Badminton Hall of Fame as well when they hang up their racquets for good.\n\n\"(As of June 2018)\"\n\nDuring the so-called Lin-Lee era, no other player perceivably came close to matching their level of play and quality of strokes, often inflicting one-sided heavy defeats with ease on other top players who each could have had way more success had they been playing in a different time to Lee and Lin such as Denmark's 5-time European champion Peter Gade, 2010 world champion Chen Jin, Bao Chunlai, former European champions Jan Ø. Jørgensen and Kenneth Jonassen, Sony Dwi Kuncoro, Park Sung Hwan, Nguyen Tien Minh, Boonsak Ponsana and even fellow legend Taufik Hidayat of Indonesia especially beginning in 2007 when Lin and Lee forged a class of their own. It has been spoken numerous times about the similarity of Lee with Roger Federer and Lin with Rafael Nadal in their head-to-head record with Chen Long coming in later years to play the part of Novak Djokovic. Lee himself has mentioned Federer as his inspiration for still playing at the highest level at an ‘old’ age.\n\nAs of 2018, the achievements that Lin and Lee has amassed between them include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOther notable achievements include Lee's 5 golds and 1 silver at the Commonwealth Games, making him the most successful Malaysian ever at the Games, surpassing his former teammate, ex-men doubles World No.1 Koo Kien Keat (5–0–0), achieving the feat at the 2018 Commonwealth Games individual men's singles final against the then newly-crowned world no.1 Srikanth Kidambi. Furthermore, Lee won 1 bronze at the Southeast Asian Games, Lin with 2 golds at the now-defunct invitational Badminton World Cup and 1 silver at the East Asian Games. Lee and Lin are the two most successful men singles players in Superseries history, amassing 46 and 21 men singles' titles respectively, making Lee the most successful player across all 5 disciplines. With the Superseries tour replaced by the new HSBC World Tour from 2018, Lee’s record can no longer be surpassed. Lin Dan became the only player to ever win 6 Thomas Cups in 2018 after China defeated Japan for their 10th title overall.\n\nLee Chong Wei is the oldest player in the Open era to win the All England Open at the age of 34 years and 142 days. Lin Dan became only the second player after Rudy Hartono to contest 10 finals when he reached the 2018 final, losing out to Shi Yuqi. They are also 2 of only 10 men in history to win 4 or more prestigious All England Open men singles' titles, the world's oldest badminton tournament and widely regarded as badminton's equivalent of tennis' Wimbledon and the unofficial world championships in the earlier years of the sport, between them winning the blue-riband event a total of 10 times, with every final played since 2004 featuring at least one of the two with the exception of the 2015 final. Others to have done so include record 8-time winner Rudy Hartono, Erland Kops (7), Frank Devlin (6), Ralph Nichols (5), Sir George Thomas, Wong Peng Soon, Eddy Choong and Morten Frost. For 13 years, between 2004 and 2017, only 3 men has managed to break the Lin-Lee duopoly, with former world No. 1 Chen Hong and 2010 world champion Chen Jin triumphing in 2005 and 2008 respectively and Rio 2016 gold medallist Chen Long in 2013 and 2015, making him the only other active player besides the legendary duo to take the title more than once during the same period. Lin and Lee are also two of seven players ever to reach seven or more finals back-to-back, with Morten Frost the last to do so in 1989.\n\nLee Chong Wei is also record 12-time Malaysia Open winner, taking a third of all Malaysia Open titles since the start of the Open-era. Lee is also joint 6-time Indonesia Open record winner, record 6-time Japan Open winner and record 3-time India Open winner. Lee surpassed the late and great Wong Peng Soon's record of 8 Malaysian titles in 2013 and equalled Barcelona 1992 silver medallist Ardy Wiranata and Athens 2004 gold medallist Taufik Hidayat's Indonesian record in 2016. Lin Dan won a record 5 China Open and 6 China Masters titles. Lee and Lin are also joint 5-time Hong Kong Open record winners. It is also no surprise that with such domination on the world stage, Lee also once had a stranglehold on the Malaysian National Badminton Championships, winning it a whopping 10 times and doing so consecutively from 2002–2011. He stopped participating in the competition since 2012 due to lack of competition, giving a chance to younger and more inexperienced players to step up and also partly to reduce the toll on his ageing body.\n\nAccording to the Guinness World Records, Lee currently holds the record for the fastest smash at 417 km/h, achieving it at the 2017 Yonex Open Japan final against Viktor Axelsen. After claiming a remarkable third consecutive silver medal at the Rio Games, Lee joined Zhang Nan and Fu Haifeng as the only badminton players to win 3 Olympic medals, trailing only Gao Ling on the all-time list, with 4 medals.\n\nLee Chong Wei spent a record consecutive 298 weeks as ranked as the No. 1 men singles' shuttler in the world from 2009–2014. He also holds the record for ending the calendar year as World No. 1 for 6 consecutive years from 2008–2013. In fact, there is no official record of exactly how long he has been World No. 1 as he had topped the pile since before official records began. Lin Dan and Viktor Axelsen are the only active players to hold winning head-to-head records against Lee Chong Wei and Lin Dan respectively, with the others being of negligible significance as their victories came when Lee and Lin just started their careers, and even so the largest margin being only Ong Ewe Hock and Alvin Chew Ming Yao's 2–0 records against Lee. Such has been their longevity, both men are the senior-most players in their national teams and have even competed against and were teammates with many players who have long retired and become coaches, including Lin's coach himself and now China's singles' department head coach, Xia Xuanze, Indian head coach Pullela Gopichand, Danish head coach Kenneth Jonassen, ex-France head coach Peter Gade, Chen Jin, Malaysia's doubles' coaches Wong Pei Tty, Chin Eei Hui and Hong Kong doubles' coach Choong Tan Fook among others.\n\n\nThe Lee–Lin rivalry has improved the popularity of badminton and has brought the sport to a bigger audience. The friendly competition between them also affected badminton fans, especially the people of Malaysia and China by showing their support to each other's matches. Lee Chong Wei's coach Tey Seu Bock said that the rivalry is 'limited edition'. Together with Taufik and Peter, they have been dubbed as the 'Four Heavenly Kings of Badminton'. In a bid to promote and elevate badminton to a wider global audience and increase awareness and popularity towards the sport, household badminton equipment manufacturer Yonex introduced The Legends' Vision initiative comprising the 4 aforementioned men and later, doubles great Lee Yong-dae. The programme travels the globe each year to catalyse growth in regions which previously have limited or zero badminton knowledge with the 5 men as ambassadors. Peter Gade once mentioned that the game needed 'celebrity players' like Lee and Lin to make it interesting and to attract more audience instead.\n\nOn 18 January 2012, Lee launched his autobiography “Dare To Become A Champion”. Lee commented that the book is about the hardship he went through as a player and hoped that it will generate more interest among the youngsters.\n\nIn December 2014, Lee was awarded the 'China-Malaysia Star of Friendship' award by the then Chinese Ambassador to Malaysia Dr for his role in forging greater friendship between the people from both nations and thereby granting him and his spouse a five-year multiple entry visa upon request. His popularity in China has grown so much over the years that in 2015, both he and Lin were invited to guest on the Dragon TV's reality-TV show called \"Yes! Coach\", with a star-studded cast which includes Taiwanese actress and singer-songwriter Michelle Chen, Hong Kong songstress Joey Yung and actor Aarif Lee produced by a Shanghai-based television station CCTV.\n\nIn late 2016, it was announced that CB Pictures has managed to obtain official rights from Datuk Lee Chong Hoon to produce a Lee Chong Wei biopic movie after 3 years of unsuccessful attempts to do so by producer Josiah Cheng. Originally given a working name 'Rise of the Legend', it was retitled 'Lee Chong Wei' with a budget of RM6 million. The film took 3 years to complete and 50 days to film which chronicles Lee’s journey as a boy with big dreams from Bagan Serai, Perak, to world-renowned shuttler. The titular role attracted in excess of 2,000 candidates for auditions. Final casts include renowned Singaporean actor Mark Lee, Yeo Yann Yann, Datuk Rosyam Nor among others.\n\nIn November 2017, Lin Dan was a special guest on Jiangsu TV's Mask Singer reality show, performing Jacky Cheung's 吻別.\n\nFilming for the Lee Chong Wei biopic completed in late 2017 and premiered on 9 March 2018 with a special one-off 133-minute director's cut version at the Bukit Jalil National Stadium with plans for release in Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, Taiwan as well. The world premiere drew a sell-out crowd of 20,000 and is set to enter the Malaysia Book of Records and Asia Book of Records as the largest movie screening. Among those who attended the premiere included guest-of-honour then Malaysia's Youth and Sports Minister Khairy Jamaluddin, Badminton Association of Malaysia (BAM) President Mohamad Norza Zakaria, the then-former Prime Minister of Malaysia Dr. Mahathir Mohamad and his wife Dr. Siti Hasmah Mohamad Ali, then-Menteri Besar of Selangor and current Minister of Economic Affairs of Malaysia Mohamed Azmin Ali and three members of the famous badminton-playing Sidek brothers; Lee's coach Misbun, Rahman and Jalani. The film was released in cinemas on 15 March 2018.\n\nOn 7 September 2018, Lee's biopic film was released in over 8,000 cinemas in China after passing the country's tight and stringent checks after over a year.\n"}
{"id": "30228467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30228467", "title": "List of Circassians", "text": "List of Circassians\n\nThis is a list of notable Circassians (Adyghes, Cherkess, and Kabardays), including both ethnic Circassians and people of Circassian descent.\n\n\nPresidents of the Republic of Adygea\n\nPresidents of Kabardino-Balkaria\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1347315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1347315", "title": "London Monster", "text": "London Monster\n\nThe London Monster was the name given to an alleged attacker of women in London between 1788 and 1790. The attacker had a signature behaviour of piquerism, the pricking or stabbing of victims with a knife, pin or needle.\n\nThe first reports of the Monster appeared in 1788. According to the victims (most of them from wealthier families), a large man had followed them, shouted obscenities and stabbed them in the buttocks. Some reports claimed an attacker had knives fastened to his knees. Other accounts reported that he would invite prospective victims to smell a fake nosegay and then stab them in the face with the spike hiding within the flowers.\n\nIn all cases the alleged assailant would escape before help arrived. Some women were found with their clothes cut and others had substantial wounds. In two years the number of reported victims amounted to more than 50.\n\nThe press soon named the maniac \"The Monster\". Descriptions of the attacker varied greatly. Some men even founded a No Monster Club and began to wear club pins on their lapels to show that they were not the Monster.\n\nLondoners were outraged when the Bow Street Runners, the London police force, failed to capture the man. Philanthropist John Julius Angerstein promised a reward of £100 for capture of the perpetrator. Armed vigilantes began to patrol in the city. Fashionable ladies began to wear copper pans over their petticoats. There were false accusations and attacks against suspicious people. Local pickpockets and other criminals used the panic to their advantage; they picked someone's valuables, pointed at him, shouted \"Monster!\", and escaped during the resulting mayhem.\n\nIn 1790 a 23-year-old florist, Rhynwick Williams, was arrested on suspicion of being the Monster. After two trials, he was sentenced to six years in prison, but historians question whether the conviction was sound.\n\nOn 13 June 1790, Anne Porter claimed she had spotted her attacker in St. James's Park. Her admirer, John Coleman, began a slow pursuit of the man, who realised he was being followed. When Rhynwick Williams, a florist of 23-year-old, reached his house, Coleman confronted him, accusing him of insulting a lady, and challenged him to a duel. He eventually took Williams to meet Porter, who fainted when she saw him.\n\nWilliams protested his innocence but, given the climate of panic, it was futile. He admitted that he had once approached Porter but had an alibi for another of the attacks. Magistrates charged Williams with defacing clothing—a crime that in the Bloody Code carried a harsher penalty than assault or attempted murder. During the trial, spectators cheered the witnesses for the prosecution and insulted those for the defence. One of the claimed victims confessed that she had not been attacked at all.\n\nRealising the absurdity of the situation, the court granted Williams a retrial. In the new trial Williams' defence lawyer was Irish poet Theophilus Swift, whose tactic was to accuse Porter of a scheme to collect the reward, Porter having married Coleman, who had received the reward money. Despite the fact that a number of alleged victims gave contradictory stories and that his employer and coworkers testified that he had an alibi for the most infamous attack, Williams was convicted on three counts and sentenced to two years each, for a total of six years in prison. He was released in December 1796.\n\nHistorians have speculated whether Williams was the culprit and have even questioned whether the London Monster existed at all beyond the hysteria. Reports of Monster-like attacks continued to be reported for many years, although they lessened somewhat while Williams was imprisoned.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2848330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2848330", "title": "Luciano Galletti", "text": "Luciano Galletti\n\nLuciano Martín Galletti (; born 9 April 1980) is an Argentine retired footballer who played as a right winger.\n\nIn a professional career that lasted 14 years he played mostly in Spain, with Zaragoza and Atlético Madrid, but also represented Olympiacos, winning five major titles with the latter club. He was also retired from 2010 to 2013, before returning to active with OFI Crete.\n\nAn Argentina international in the 2000s, Galletti appeared with the national team at the 2005 Confederations Cup.\n\nBorn in La Plata, Buenos Aires Province, Galletti's career began with Estudiantes de La Plata, where his father Rubén Horacio played as a right-wing forward during the 1970s. He scored once in 24 games in his second season in the Primera División.\n\nIn January 1999, Galletti joined Parma A.C. in Italy, but failed to break into the first team, moving in the following transfer window to another club in the country, Serie B's S.S.C. Napoli – loaned by Estudiantes, to where he would return for the 2000–01 campaign.\n\nGalletti signed with Real Zaragoza from Spain in the 2001 off-season. He made his La Liga debut on 26 August in a 1–2 away loss against RCD Espanyol, and finished his first year with 27 matches and two goals as the season ended in relegation.\n\nFrom there onwards, Galletti became an undisputed starter for the Aragonese, never appearing in less than 34 contests for the remainder of his spell. In 2003–04 he helped them win the Copa del Rey, scoring the winner in a 3–2 extra time win over Real Madrid.\n\nOn 29 July 2005, Galletti joined fellow league side Atlético Madrid for €4 million. He netted his first league goal for his new team on 27 October, closing the scoresheet at home against Cádiz CF (3–0).\n\nIn his second season with the \"Colchoneros\", Galletti scored four goals in 36 games as they finished in seventh position.\n\nOn 30 June 2007, Galletti was transferred to Olympiacos F.C. in Greece, for a reported fee of €2.5m, with the player signing a four-year contract with an annual salary of €1.3 million. On 2 May 2009 he netted the 4–4 equalizer against AEK Athens F.C. in the final of the Greek Cup, in another eventual extra time success; after that campaign ended and he contributed with a career-best 14 goals to the national championship's conquest, he signed a contract extension linking him to the Piraeus club until 2013 – the new deal contained a release clause fee of €15million.\n\nIn early February 2010, Galletti was diagnosed with severe kidney failure, causing him to miss the rest of the season. He announced his retirement the following summer, aged only 30; in early October 2012, however, he underwent a successful kidney transplant, the donor being his father Rubén.\n\nGalletti returned to Olympiacos on 3 September 2014 after an unassuming spell as player at OFI Crete FC, being appointed scout for Latin America.\n\nGalletti was the top scorer at the 1999 South American Youth Championship with nine goals in only eight games, ranking ahead the likes of Ronaldinho and Roque Santa Cruz as the Argentina under-20s won the competition in Paraguay. He earned 13 caps for the full side, making his debut in 2000 and being selected to the squad that appeared in the 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup, where he played three matches for the eventual runners-up, including the final against Brazil.\n\nZaragoza\n\nOlympiacos\n\nArgentina\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1061383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1061383", "title": "Léger-Félicité Sonthonax", "text": "Léger-Félicité Sonthonax\n\nLéger-Félicité Sonthonax (7 March 1763 – 23 July 1813) was a French abolitionist and Jacobin before joining the Girondist party, which emerged in 1791. During the French Revolution, he controlled 7,000 French troops in Saint-Domingue during part of the Haitian Revolution. His official title was Civil Commissioner. From September 1792 to December 1795, he was the \"de facto\" ruler of Saint-Domingue's non-slave populace. Within a year of his appointment, his powers were considerably expanded by the Committee of Public Safety. He was recalled in 1795 largely due to the resurgence of conservative politics in France. Sonthonax believed that Saint-Domingue's whites were royalists or separatists, so he attacked the military power of the white settlers and by doing so alienated the colonial settlers from their government. Many \"gens de couleur\" (mixed-race residents of the colony) asserted that they could form the military backbone of Saint-Domingue if they were given rights, but Sonthonax rejected this view as outdated in the wake of the August 1791 slave uprising. He believed that Saint-Domingue would need ex-slave soldiers among the ranks of the colonial army if it was to survive. On August 1793, he proclaimed freedom for all slaves in the north province. His critics allege that he was forced into ending slavery in order to maintain his own power.\n\nBorn in Oyonnax, France on March 7, 1763, the son of a prosperous merchant, Sonthonax was a lawyer in the Parlement of Paris who rose in the ranks during the French Revolution. Sonthonax's wealth was due to his father's trade market, which had many employees from his village. Sonthonax finished his studies at the University of Dijon, becoming a well-known lawyer with the help of his wealthy father. A member of the Society of the Friends of the Blacks, he became connected with Jacques Pierre Brissot and subsequently aligned himself with the Girondists.\n\nIn August 1791, a slave rebellion (the Haitian Revolution) broke out in the northern part of Saint-Domingue, the heart of the island's sugar plantation economy. Saint-Domingue was also wracked by conflict between the white colonists and free people of colour (many of whom were of mixed race), and also between those supportive of the French Revolution and those for a re-establishment of the Ancien Régime — or failing that, for Saint-Domingue's independence.\n\nIn 1792, Sonthonax and Etienne Polverel were sent to the colony of Saint-Domingue (now Haïti) as part of the Revolutionary Commission. His main goal was to maintain French control of Saint-Domingue and enforce the social equality recently granted to free \"gens de couleur\" by the French National Convention as part of the decree of 4 April 1792. The legislation re-established French control of Saint-Domingue, granted full citizenship and political equality to free blacks and free mulattoes, but did not emancipate the slaves, and induced the slaves to return to the plantations. Sonthonax's mission was not to free the slaves of Saint-Domingue, but rather to enforce the decree and to defeat slave rebellions. Sonthonax had initially decried the abolition of slavery to gain the support of the whites on the island. Upon his arrival, he found that some whites and free people of color were already cooperating against the slave rebels. He did exile many radical whites who would not accept free coloreds as equals and managed to contain the slave insurgency outside of the North. \n\nWhen Sonthonax and French Colonial Commissioner, Etienne Polveral, were sent to Saint-Domingue, a Proclamation was made by the two. This proclamation started off granting specific freedoms to the slaves, but ultimately, slaves in the north and west of Saint-Domingue were granted freedom. Following the proclamation, Sonthonax wrote a reply to those that were opposed to his and Polveral's decision in 1793 to grant these select slaves this new freedom. He declares his never ending belief that civil rights should be granted to these Africans and defends his decision to free the slaves was not erroneous to do. Sonthonax's \"Proclamation Au nom de la République\" explained his role in the Revolution. He was committed to make drastic decisions to prevent Britain and Spain from trying to take control of Saint-Domingue.\n\nIn February 1793 France declared war on the Kingdom of Great Britain, which presented a new problem for Sonthonax. All those he had alienated in trying to uphold the French Revolution in Saint-Domingue could now flock to the banner of Britain, which held the nearby island of Jamaica and was giving shelter to French counter-revolutionary émigrés. The white population declined significantly until only 6,000 remained after June 1793.\n\nOn 20 June 1793 a failed attempt to take control of the capital by a new military governor sympathetic to whites, Francois-Thomas Galbaud, led to the bombardment and burning of Cap-Français (now Cap-Haïtien). On June 24, 1793, 60% of the white population left Saint-Domingue with Galbaud, most never to return. Responsibility for the burning is uncertain, though it was likely done by the roughly 1,000 non-native sailors among Galbaud's forces. Up to this point the commissioners had still been pursuing the fight against the black slaves, whose insurrection had begun in August 1791, but Galbaud's attack led them to seek support from some of the black insurgent leaders in the region. The price for this was a promise of freedom for ex-slaves who agreed to fight on behalf of the commissioners and the French republican regime they represented. This emancipation was a momentous victory for all slave forces, and oral histories suggest a boost in their morale.\n\nOn August 29,1793, with rumors of emancipation rampant, Sonthonax took the radical step of proclaiming the freedom of the slaves in the north province (with severe limits on their freedom). It was during this time, and due to the new trend of conceding rights to blacks, that Toussaint Louverture began reforming his political philosophy to embrace France rather than Spain; however, he was cautious and awaited French ratification of emancipation before officially changing sides. In September and October, emancipation was extended throughout the colony. On February 4, 1794, the French National Convention ratified this act, applying it to all French colonies, including Guadeloupe. Emancipation was one of the most momentous events in the history of the Americas.\n\nThe slaves did not immediately join Sonthonax's side, however. White colonists continued to fight Sonthonax, with assistance from the British. They were joined by many of the free men of color who opposed the abolition of slavery. It was not until word of France's ratification of emancipation arrived back in the colony that Toussaint Louverture and his corps of well-disciplined, battle-hardened former slaves came over to the French Republican side in early May 1794.\n\nA change in the political winds back home caused Sonthonax to be recalled to France to defend his actions. When he returned in the summer of 1794, he argued that the free people of colour, whom he had been originally sent to defend, were no longer loyal to France, and that the Republic should place its faith in the freed slaves. Vindicated, Sonthonax returned to Saint-Domingue a second time. The Comte d'Hédouville was sent by France to be governor of the island, but was eventually forced to flee.\n\nToussaint, in the meantime, was consolidating his own position. The black general arranged for Sonthonax to leave Saint-Domingue as one of its elected representatives in 1797, and when Sonthonax showed himself to be hesitant, Toussaint placed him under armed escort onto a ship bound for France on 24 August. He died in his home town 16 years later.\n\nLéger-Félicité Sonthonax is a controversial figure of the Haitian Revolution. His critics (Toussaint, Jean-Jacques Dessalines or André Rigaud) have denounced him as being vain, power-hungry and duplicitous. Thomas Madiou, one of Haïti's most famous historians, writing in the middle of the 19th century deduced that his ultimate goal was to become Governor General of the island, autonomous from France and Napoleon Bonaparte, this was thus the reason why General Toussaint exiled him back to France. Toussaint felt that Sonthonax was using their plight to further his own agenda (power grab). Sonthonax is considered a controversial figure in Haitian history because of his alleged duplicitous nature. His intentions were never clear and he was not trusted by the black population. Sonthonax is seldom spoken of in Haiti today.\n\n"}
{"id": "19241142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19241142", "title": "Marion Terry", "text": "Marion Terry\n\nMarion Bessie Terry (13 October 1853 – 21 August 1930) was an English actress. In a career spanning half a century, she played leading roles in more than 125 plays. Always in the shadow of her older and more famous sister Ellen, Terry nevertheless achieved considerable success in the plays of W. S. Gilbert, Oscar Wilde, Henry James and others.\n\nTerry was born in England, into a theatrical family. Her birth name was Mary Ann Bessy Terry, and she was nicknamed \"Polly\". Her parents, Benjamin (1818–1896), of Irish descent, and Sarah (née Ballard) (1819–1892), of Scottish ancestry, were comic actors in a touring company based in Portsmouth (where Sarah's father was a Wesleyan minister) and had eleven children. At least five of these became actors: Kate, Ellen, Marion, Florence and Fred. Two other children, George and Charles, were connected with theatre management.\n\nTerry's sister Kate was a very successful actress until her marriage and retirement from the stage in 1867, and her sister Ellen became the greatest Shakespearean actress of her time. Her great nephew (Kate's grandson), Sir John Gielgud, became one of the twentieth century's most respected actors. Terry attended a boarding-school for girls at Sunnyside, Kingston upon Thames, together with her favourite sister, Florence.\n\nTerry's first professional stage appearance was in July 1873 as Ophelia in a production of \"Hamlet\" directed by Tom Taylor in Manchester. Her first West End appearance came in October 1873 as Isabelle in a farce by John Maddison Morton, \"A Game of Romps\" at the Olympic Theatre, in the company of Henry Neville. This was followed by the role of Lady Valeria in Morton's \"All that Glitters Is Not Gold\" at the same theatre. In 1874, she was Hero in Shakespeare's \"Much Ado about Nothing\" at the Olympic. She then played a season at the Strand Theatre, and in 1875 appeared in \"Weak Woman\" by H. J. Byron.\nTerry next joined the company at the Haymarket Theatre and became a protege of W. S. Gilbert, soon appearing in several of his plays, including \"Dan'l Druce, Blacksmith\" (1876) as Dorothy, \"The Palace of Truth\" (1876 revival), \"Pygmalion and Galatea\" (1877 revival) and \"Engaged\" (1877), creating the role of Belinda Treherne with great success. Also during that period, she first appeared in \"The Danischeffs\" by Lord Newry (1876), \"Fame\" by C. M. Rae (1877), \"Charles XII\" by James Planché (1877 revival), \"The Vagabond\", by Gilbert (1878), \"Two Orphans\" (1878), \"The Crushed Tragedian\", and \"My Little Girl\" by Dion Boucicault. In 1879 she moved to the Prince of Wales's Theatre under the management of the Bancrofts and then moved with the company to the Haymarket, performing in revivals of T. W. Robertson's comedies, including as Blanche Haye in \"Ours\" and Bella in \"School\". In 1879 she also appeared as Mabel in \"Duty\" by James Albert and the title role in \"Gretchen\" by Gilbert.\n\nNow an established actress, Terry continued to play leading roles in contemporary plays. She was Bathsheba in the stage adaptation of \"Far from the Madding Crowd\" by Thomas Hardy and J. Comyns Carr (1882). The same year, she starred with Lottie Venne and Johnston Forbes-Robertson in G. W. Godfrey's comedy \"The Parvenu\" at the Court Theatre. She substituted for her sister Ellen, who was ill, as Viola in \"Twelfth Night\" at the Lyceum Theatre in 1884. In 1885 she played in \"The Magistrate\" by Arthur Wing Pinero. In 1887, she joined the company of Herbert Beerbohm Tree first at the Comedy Theatre and then at the Haymarket. That year, she also appeared in \"The Ballad-Monger\", by Walter Bessant. In February 1888, she starred in a revival of Gilbert's \"Broken Hearts\". Later that year, she toured the British provinces with Henry Irving in another of her sister Ellen's roles, Margaret in \"Faust\". She played Mrs. Erroll in \"The Real Little Lord Fauntleroy\" (1889), appeared in \"Cyrene\" by Alfred C. Calmour (1890), and appeared in 1891 in \"Sunlight and Shadow\" by R. C. Carton. She continued to tour with Irving's Lyceum company in the 1890s, as Rosamund in Alfred Lord Tennyson's \"Becket\", as Portia in \"The Merchant of Venice\" (one of her sister's signature roles), and again as Margaret.\n\nIn 1892 Terry played perhaps her most famous role, Mrs. Erlynne in \"Lady Windermere's Fan\", by Oscar Wilde, at the St James's Theatre. This was followed by Hetty in \"The Cotton King\" by Sutton Vane Sr. (1893). In 1895, she appeared in \"Alabama\" by Augustus Thomas, in the title role in \"Delia Harding\" by J. Comyns Carr, and as Mrs. Peverel in \"Guy Domville\" by Henry James. In 1900 she played the roles of Rosalind and Portia at the Stratford festival. She was Nina in \"Forgiveness\" by J. Comyns Carr (1901), the title role in \"Eleanor\" by Mrs. Humphrey Ward (1902), Susan Throssell in \"Quality Street\" by J. M. Barrie (1902), and Audrie in \"Michael and His Lost Angel\" by Henry Arthur Jones, among many other engagements.\n\nIn 1907, Terry performed in a Royal Command Performance of the 1855 Tom Taylor play, \"Still Waters Run Deep\", together with Charles Wyndham, before King Edward VII. She played Hamlet's mother in a 1908 revival of Gilbert's parody of \"Hamlet\", \"Rosencrantz and Guildenstern\". She toured in America and Canada in 1908 and 1909. Her last role was the Principessa della Cercola in \"Our Betters at the Globe\" by Somerset Maugham in 1923, fifty years after her first professional appearance. Suffering from arthritis and other ailments, she retired from the stage. In her last years, Terry lived in Paddington, after having lived for many years at Buckingham Palace Mansions.\n\nTerry died at her home in 1930, aged 76, of a cerebral haemorrhage and was buried at St Albans cemetery. She never married and, intensely private offstage, nothing is known of her romantic life. She left an estate of more than £12,000.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39936027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39936027", "title": "Mark Romanek videography", "text": "Mark Romanek videography\n\nAmerican filmmaker Mark Romanek directed his first music video in 1986, for The The's \"Sweet Bird of Truth\". He earned his first MTV Video Music Award for Best Direction nomination for \"Free Your Mind\", performed by En Vogue, in 1993. Romanek later directed \"Closer\" for the industrial rock band Nine Inch Nails, which contains imagery involving terror, sexuality, and animal cruelty. In 1995, he directed the video for \"Scream\", set in space and performed by Michael and Janet Jackson, as well as the New Age surrealistic \"Bedtime Story\", performed by Madonna. They are two of the most expensive music videos ever made, costing $7 million and $5 million, respectively. \"Scream\" gained 11 nominations at the 1995 MTV Video Music Awards, including Romanek's second Best Direction nomination, and his first Grammy Award for Best Music Video, Short Form.\n\nIn 1996, Romanek directed the \"Mary Poppins\"-inspired \"Novocaine for the Soul\" for the rock band Eels. The following year, he directed Fiona Apple's \"Criminal\", which explores themes of voyeurism and adolescence; and won his second Grammy Award for Best Music Video, Short Form for \"Got 'til It's Gone\", performed by Janet Jackson, Q-Tip and Joni Mitchell. For his work in \"Hurt\" (2003), performed by Johnny Cash, Romanek earned another MTV nomination, and won his third Grammy. In 2004, he directed the auto-biographical music video for Jay-Z's \"99 Problems\", for which he won his first MTV award. Their subsequent collaborations—the installation-style 10-minute short film for \"Picasso Baby\" (2013), and the animation video for \"The Story of O.J.\" (2017)—were nominated for Grammy Award for Best Music Video.\n\nRomanek made his feature-film directorial debut with the 1986 comedy-drama feature \"Static\", which was nominated for Grand Jury Prize at the 1986 Sundance Film Festival. He received a Saturn Award for Best Writing nomination for his work in the psychological thriller \"One Hour Photo\" (2002), which starred Robin Williams. In 2010, he directed the romantic drama film \"Never Let Me Go\", starring Carey Mulligan, Keira Knightley and Andrew Garfield, for which he was nominated for British Independent Film Award for Best Director. Romanek also directed several commercials for iPod, Nike, and ESPN.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35502456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35502456", "title": "Marnitz Boshoff", "text": "Marnitz Boshoff\n\nMarnitz Louis Boshoff (born 11 January 1989) is a South African rugby union player who usually plays as a fly-half or fullback. He plays for the in Super Rugby, the in the Currie Cup and the in the Rugby Challenge, having previously played for South African provincial sides , the and the in the Currie Cup and for Super Rugby side the . He also had a short stint with Irish provincial side Connacht in the Pro14.\n\nHe played in a single test match for in 2014 and also featured for invitational side the Barbarians.\n\nBorn in Nelspruit in the Mpumalanga province of South Africa, Boshoff is a graduate of Nelspruit Hoërskool and attended the University of Pretoria. He was part of the youth team of Nelspruit-based side the Pumas from 2005 to 2007, before joining the academy of the Pretoria-based Blue Bulls.\n\nBoshoff first played at provincial level for the Blue Bulls, playing for them from 2009 to 2011 after coming through their youth side. During his time with the Blue Bulls, he played 24 times, scoring 130 points.\n\nIn 2012, Boshoff moved to the Griquas. He spent one year there, making 13 appearances and scoring 37 points.\n\nHe joined the for 2013.\n\nHe played in both legs of the ' promotion/relegation matches after the 2013 Super Rugby season, which saw the regain their spot in Super Rugby.\n\nAfter a season that saw him finish as the top points scorer for the in the 2013 Currie Cup Premier Division, he was then included in the squad for the 2014 Super Rugby season and made his Super Rugby debut in a man-of-the-match performance in the opening match of the season, scoring all the Lions' points – including a last-minute drop goal – to help them beat the 21–20 in Bloemfontein.\n\nHe was the Golden Lions' first-choice fly-half during the 2014 and 2015 Currie Cup competitions, with the Lions reaching the final both times and winning the trophy in 2015, with Boshoff again finishing as the top points scorer.\n\nIn March 2016, Irish Pro12 side Connacht announced that they secured Boshoff's services on a two-year contract.\n\nIn May 2014, Boshoff was one of eight uncapped players that were called up to a Springbok training camp prior to the 2014 mid-year rugby union tests. Although not initially selected in the 36-man squad, Boshoff was called up to the squad when Damian de Allende suffered a knee ligament injury. He played off the bench against Scotland and scored his first points by converting a try.\n\nHe was chosen to represent the Barbarians to face Australia on 1 November 2014 at Twickenham. He came off the bench and scored two conversions and a try, but the Barbarians lost 36–40.\n\n"}
{"id": "5158906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5158906", "title": "Michael Spencer", "text": "Michael Spencer\n\nMichael Alan Spencer (born 30 May 1955) is a British businessman and philanthropist. He is the founder and chief executive of NEX Group plc, a UK-based business focused on electronic markets and post trade business. NEX Group was formerly known as ICAP plc, until the sale of its voice-broking business to Tullett Prebon in December 2016. Spencer has been described as the richest self-made person in the City of London and as a \"...City grandee\".\n\nSpencer was born in British Malaya. His father was an economist and international civil servant, his mother a linguist. Spencer's early childhood saw him move from his birth country to Sudan and then Ethiopia. At age eight he was sent to England to board, latterly at Worth Abbey Benedictine (OSB) School, Sussex. He read physics at Corpus Christi College, Oxford, after which he considered becoming an astrophysicist.\n\nSpencer is an Honorary Fellow of Corpus Christi and an Honorary Doctor of Loughborough University.\n\nWhile still a student Spencer made £30,000 dealing in shares.\n\nIn 1976 he joined city broker Simon and Coates. There he took a large short position on the price of gold prior to the Russian invasion of Afghanistan; the price of gold quadrupled in response to the invasion and Spencer's position incurred heavy losses, leading to his dismissal. In 1981 he joined Drexel Burnham, rising to Vice President before being fired for trading errors. From 1983 to 1986 he was a Director at futures firm Charles Fulton; when that firm floated, Spencer used £50,000 from his proceeds to co-found his first business, along with three colleagues. \n\nSpencer co-founded Intercapital Brokers in 1986. Over its 20 years as a listed company, its total shareholder return was close to 6,000 per cent. \n\nIntercapital was the first to launch a real-time screen that displayed live prices. In 1998, it was acquired by Exco plc in a reverse takeover, and the enlarged business was renamed Intercapital plc. In 1999, the company merged with Garban plc to create Garban-Intercapital plc, the largest inter-dealer broker in the world with more than 5,000 employees across 63 offices. Garban renamed itself ICAP plc in 2001 (its full name did not fit on trading screens, hence the abbreviation to ICAP) . Functioning as an inter-dealer broker, ICAP brought together large financial institutions in search of buyers and sellers for corporate and government bonds, foreign currency, commodities and other financial products. The firm collected commissions and connected clients via its electronic trading platforms. In 2006 Icap entered the FTSE 100, one of a small number of companies to do so with a founder CEO.\n\nFollowing the sale of its voice broking business to banking firm Tullett Prebon in December 2016, ICAP plc was renamed NEX Group, while Tullett Prebon became TP ICAP. Spencer sold the majority of his stake in TP ICAP in January 2017. He remains CEO and largest shareholder of Nex Group, as of February 2017.\n\nIn February 2010, Spencer made £45m from the sale of ICAP shares weeks before the company issued a profit warning that resulted in a 16% fall in the firm's share price.\n\nIn September 2013 ICAP was implicated in the global Libor interest rate scandal and fined $87m (£54m) by the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Britain's Financial Conduct Authority. In March 2014 British prosecutors filed charges against three former ICAP employees for their role in the affair. They were among a global group of finance professionals to be investigated, including staff from Barclays, UBS, Citigroup and RP Martin. In January 2016 the three ICAP employees were unanimously acquitted in the UK; the US Department of Justice dropped charges against them in July 2016. Spencer was not implicated but issued a public apology on behalf of ICAP.\n\nIn March 2018 NEX announced an approach by CME Group further to a proposed acquisition. CME offered £3.8bn in a cash-and-share deal, valuing Spencer's stake at approximately £668m. By the time the deal completed in November 2018 Spencer's stake had grown to over £700m, half of which he received in cash, raising his net worth to over £1bn. As a listed company, Nex's total shareholder return was close to 6,000 per cent.\n\nIn 1997 Spencer purchased a controlling interest in spread betting firm City Index Group, acquiring his stake from the firm's founders. City Index was later sold for $118m to financial services company GAIN Capital, netting Spencer more than $80m.\n\nSpencer has held stakes in numerous public and private companies. He is a director and majority shareholder in IPGL Limited, a private holding company making investments on behalf of Spencer and other family trusts. He is also an early-stage investor in Temple Grange Partners, a consultancy that finds compliance specialists for financial markets, and an investor in mobile gaming software company Probability. He is a co-owner of Exotix, a frontier markets investment banking boutique. He also owns a stake in Cluff Natural Resources, a energy resources investor. In 2018 he led an investment round in two cyber security firms: Veridium, a biometric authentication startup, and Glasswall Solutions, a file regeneration technology firm..\n\nSpencer is also an investor in Elvie, a female health tech startup In 2018 he became Chairman and majority shareholder of investment firm FCFM. He is an investor in Viewforth Investment Partners, a London-based hedge fund focusing on mid-cap European securities. \n\nSpencer is a former chairman of stockbroker Numis Securities. \n\nHe believes in a long-term role for cryptocurrencies. He opposes MiFID II.\n\nIn 2011 Spencer was made Chairman of Bordeaux Index, the online wine trading exchange in which he is an investor. He also holds a stake in English wine maker Chapel Down.\n\nHe is the owner of Sirai House, a commercial lodge in Kenya.\n\nSpencer served as Treasurer of the Conservative Party from 2006 to 2010, during which time the party's finances moved from a deficit of £8m into a surplus of £75m. He is the Chairman of the Conservative Party Foundation, a charity established to strengthen the financial future of the Conservative Party.\n\nSpencer is a noted donor to the Conservative Party, taking dinner with then-Prime Minister David Cameron. ICAP and Spencer have made £4.6m in donations to the party, although Spencer has been critical of the May government's business policies; he has not donated to the party since the 2017 UK general election. Spencer was nominated for a peerage in Cameron's resignation honours list, for charity fundraising and service to the Conservative party while Treasurer, but reportedly his nomination was blocked by the Cabinet Office.\n\nSpencer has been reported to favour positive discrimination employment policies for women but is against gender-based employment quotas, believing them to wrongly presuppose prejudice among all male employers. He has criticised the UK Government's pay gap review as a distraction from Brexit. Spencer was among the first to employ female brokers in the City.\n\nHe voted for the UK to remain in the EU. He later said that he had long been undecided on the issue, and that his Remain vote was cast without \"...great angelical zeal.\" He has spoken of becoming a cheerleader for enterprise after the sale of NEX.\n\n\nIn 1993, Spencer founded the ICAP Charity Day, an annual event in which royalty and celebrities man the trading desks at ICAP and the broking firm donates the day's revenue to charities. As of February 2017, the event has raised over £140 million and backed 2,200 charitable projects. He has said that the Charity Day is his proudest achievement in business, alongside breaking into the FTSE100 with ICAP.\n\nRoyalty and celebrities who have manned ICAP phones include: \nPrince William and Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, Prince Harry, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, Sir Mo Farrah, Sir Stirling Moss, Gillian Anderson, Halle Berry, George W. Bush, Samantha Cameron, Cheryl Cole, Kelsey Grammar, Tom Hardy, Goldie Hawn, Chris Hemsworth, Sir Chris Hoy, Bill Nighy, Julie Walters, Oprah Winfrey and Reese Witherspoon.\n\nSpencer is a founder and trustee of the Borana Conservation Trust, a charity which supports critically endangered species in Kenya's Borana and Laikipia regions.\n\nIn 2008, Spencer divorced his first wife Lorraine. They had two sons and a daughter, and homes in Notting Hill, Suffolk and Manhattan.\n\nIn June 2016 Spencer married Sarah, Marchioness of Milford Haven in London.\n\nSpencer has homes in Chelsea, London, and Kenya. \"Who's Who\" lists his hobbies as running, riding, shooting, wine and art; he is also reported to be an aviation enthusiast. Spencer runs a horse-breeding programme and plans to build a stable in Laikipia. His horse Freewheeler, a South African-bred filly, won the 2018 Kenya Derby at Ngong.\n\nHe collects twentieth century and contemporary art, including the work of Picasso, Lucian Freud and Jack Vettriano. Spencer is a former shareholder and an associate director of Ipswich Town Football Club. He cites Michael Bloomberg as a business influence, and reportedly is friends with Sir Elton John, Chris Eubank, Keren Woodward and Andrew Ridgeley. He is a Christian and churchgoer.\n\nSpencer is a member of White's, as well as clubs at 5 Hertford Street and 67 Pall Mall. He once left a £5,000 tip for restaurant staff at Scotts, after winning a bet with Richard Caring about the outcome of the 2015 UK General Election.\n\n"}
{"id": "36489902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36489902", "title": "Misael the Anchorite", "text": "Misael the Anchorite\n\nSaint Misael the Anchorite was a Christian monk who is venerated by the Coptic Orthodox Church.\n\nMuch of St. Misael's story is recorded by Anba Isaac, the abbot of the St. Samuel monastery. St. Misael is known to have had parents who were not religious or heavily involved with the church. His parents also struggled to have a child. It is said that an old monk gave commands to the father to return to the Church and to strengthen the family's foundation with the Christian faith so that they could have a child. According to the testimony of St. Misael to the abbot of St. Samuel monastery, it was after his father had done all that the elder monk had commanded that his mother gave birth to him.\n\nSt. Misael was accepted into the monastery of St. Samuel the Confessor by the Abbot and was accordingly dressed with the garb of the monastic life and the holy Eskeem. From there on, he lived a solitary life in worship and asceticism.\n\nSt. Misael is also said to have prophesied about three main events which took place. The first of which concerned an incoming famine; in response to hearing about this, the abbot of the monastery was able to purchase a plentiful supply of grain in preparation. The second prophesy concerned him being taken away from the monastery by a soldier. The third prophesy regarded St. Misael's own death: he informed the abbot of the monastery, Abba Isaac, that he would die the following year. After that, Isaac reports that Misael \"departed and I did not see him again\".\n\nThe consecration day of the church of St. Misael was on the 10th of Bashens in the Coptic Year 396, during the reign of Decledianus. The Coptic Orthodox Church celebrates the feast of St. Misael on the 13th of the Month of Koiak.\n\n"}
{"id": "7782531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7782531", "title": "Noah Bennet", "text": "Noah Bennet\n\nNoah Bennet, also known as the man in horn-rimmed glasses (a.k.a. HRG) or simply Mr. Bennet, is a character from the NBC drama \"Heroes\" played by Jack Coleman. The role was initially recurring, but became regular as of the 11th episode. His first name was not revealed until \"How to Stop an Exploding Man\", the first-season finale. Along with his adoptive daughter Claire, Noah is the most frequently seen character in the series, and returned for the 2015-16 miniseries \"Heroes Reborn\".\n\nAt first glance, Noah Bennet appears to be an ordinary businessman who works at the Primatech Paper Company and lives in Odessa, Texas, with his wife and two children. However, he and his associates have actually traveled the world for a number of years investigating superhuman phenomena and tracking down people with these \"gifts.\" Bennet claims that he assists them in learning to use their powers, although a flashback conversation between him and Thompson reveals that he knows his job is morally questionable and that it will often produce unintended consequences; in one episode, he plainly states that he is comfortable with being morally gray. Though he is a \"Company Man,\" he deeply cares for his family and will do anything to protect them, particularly his adopted daughter Claire, and puts their safety above all else. He is also known as \"Glasses Man\".\n\nBennet has had a number of associates, most notably a mysterious man most commonly known as \"The Haitian,\" who has the power to prevent other heroes from exercising their powers in his presence, as well as to remove select memories from people's minds. Bennet's other known associates have been Eden McCain, a woman with the power of mind control who kills herself to keep Sylar from gaining her ability; Claude Rains, Bennet's first partner who has the power to turn invisible; and a romantic couple composed of Hank, a doctor with unknown abilities and his significant other, Lisa, who also has unknown abilities. Rains is the first person to question Bennet's actions and those of The Company. Bennet is charged with executing Rains for his insubordination on moral grounds, but Rains escapes by literally disappearing into thin air.\n\nBennet's true agenda and overall affiliation are mysterious. In response to Matt Parkman's inquiries as to whether he works for the FBI or the CIA, Bennet said he doesn't work for \"any organization that has initials.\" Furthermore, he has worked for and against The Company and for and against Mr. Linderman. These factors cloud his true allegiances. His one allegiance that is clear, however, is that to his daughter, Claire; his son, Lyle; and his wife, Sandra. Bennet loves his daughter profusely, but is also overprotective of her. This sometimes leads him to use his authority and associates in unsavory ways. Past, present and future events all indicate that Bennet has lied about Claire's biological origins multiple times.\n\nAccording to his driving license, his previous address is 9 Juniper Lane, Odessa, Texas. Noah Bennet speaks Japanese and also appears to speak at least some Ukrainian. Although he does not seem to possess any powers, his extensive experience in dealing with beings with superpowers allows him to be able to handle them effectively. Also, he displays considerable prowess in hand-to-hand combat and marksmanship.\n\nIn the episode \"The Wall\", Samuel uses the ability of Damien to reveal Noah's life before joining The Company to Claire. In 1985, Noah lived in Los Angeles with his first wife Kate as a used car salesman. Soon after learning Kate is pregnant, the two are attacked by a telekinetic named Richard in their home resulting in Kate's death. Before wanting to find the killer, Noah develops signs of psychotic depression and paranoia before he spends the next year mapping and tracking people with abilities. After encountering one of the people he is tracking, Noah demands that he tell him where he can find Richard, but is attacked and is forced to kill him in self-defence. Soon after, Noah is approached by Eric Thompson Sr. with an offer to join Primatech and assistance in finding Richard. After two years and several deaths on his cases Noah is encouraged by Thompson to get married to calm him so there are fewer incidents, suggesting to Noah to look at the waitress working at the restaurant, who turns out to be Sandra. Soon after, the two meet and then get married; they spend their honeymoon in West Berlin, Germany where Noah acts as informant for Thompson's assignment (\"From the Files of Primatech, Part 5: 1988\").\n\nIn \"Company Man\", a flashback episode, it is revealed that Noah Bennet's former partner years ago was Claude, with whom he rescued Claire from the fire her biological mother caused by pyrokinesis. However, because Claude was hiding \"one of them\", Bennet was forced to kill him. However, Claude later turned out to be alive—he had used his powers to become invisible when Bennet shot him, disappearing from view. In \"Company Man\", an episode that takes place over 16 years before \"Genesis\", Kaito Nakamura arranges for Noah to adopt Claire as an assignment and Bennet later allows them to plant the catalyst of the genetic modification formula— a formula that can grant superpowers to any and all who are injected with it— into Claire's body. In Six Months Ago, he turns the wanted criminal and mind controller Eden McCain into one of his operatives. At about the same time, he is contacted by Chandra Suresh, who has found Claire's picture on her high school's web site after identifying her as having potential powers. After Chandra leaves, Bennet orders Eden McCain to become a neighbor of Chandra Suresh and remove Claire's name from Chandra's list of superpowered humans.\n\nNoah Bennet first appears in \"Genesis\", the first episode. He is found in the apartment of Chandra Suresh in Madras, India. Chandra's son Mohinder enters the apartment, but leaves quickly after realizing Bennet is there as well. Bennet seems to notice Mohinder, and later follows him to New York. There, Bennet is one of Mohinder's afternoon passengers during his job as a taxicab driver. Bennet begins pleasantly referencing his travels, and stating that he'll be happy to see his family again. The conversation turns as he mentions personal facts about Mohinder, ultimately resulting in Mohinder fleeing his own cab. Finally, Bennet comes home to Odessa and greets his family. The next morning in \"Don't Look Back\", Claire states her desire to meet her biological parents. Bennet is reluctant, but doesn't outright say \"no.\" After Claire gets home from school, Bennet says he'll start contacting the adoption agency and look for her biological parents. After a happy Claire leaves the room, Bennet is seen watching a video tape of Claire demonstrating her healing abilities.\n\nIn \"Collision\", Bennet is first seen standing over Matt Parkman, who is strapped to a gurney. Bennet calmly converses with Matt, advising him to relax. Bennet also checks the readout of a machine used to gauge when Parkman is trying to read Bennet's mind. Bennet explains that the Haitian is blocking Matt's powers. Nevertheless, Matt is able to pull the name \"Claire\" from Bennet's mind. Bennet is impressed by Matt's growing ability, and then tells the Haitian to \"go deep\" with Matt, who is last heard screaming. That morning, back at the Bennet house, Bennet finds that a distraught Claire has just come home. Bennet assumes from Claire's bare, mud-covered feet that she was out all night. Bennet has to get to work, but states that they'll talk later. He is then seen monitoring Nathan Petrelli, who has just had a one-night stand with Niki/Jessica Sanders. Bennet tells the Haitian to kidnap \"just the one\" (Nathan).\n\nIn the next episode, \"Hiros\", Bennet and the Haitian attempt to force Nathan into a car, but he escapes by flying away. Bennet is then seen at Texas hospital visiting Claire. Claire explains that Brody is a rapist and attempted to force himself on her. After speaking to one of his victims, Claire was motivated to do something. She only wanted to \"scare\" Brody, but as he sat in the passenger seat and said he wouldn't stop raping girls, she ultimately crashed his car intentionally. Claire begs her father not to tell anyone, and Bennet merely says he'll take care of it. Bennet then appears in Brody's room, followed by the Haitian. He says that she is going through 'a confusing time', telling that he knows of her powers. He tells the boy that he is being given a chance to start over in life and Bennet then tells the Haitian to \"hollow him out\" and \"take everything\" (erase all of Brody's memories, including that of his own name).\n\nFinally, in \"Better Halves\", Bennet has set up a meeting between Claire and his two associates, Hank and Lisa. Bennet presents the two as Claire's biological parents. While carefully watching the two with his wife Sandra, Bennet receives a call from Eden McCain, his spy in New York. Eden relays information about Mohinder, Isaac Mendez (\"the precog\") and the message \"save the cheerleader, save the world.\" Bennet is disturbed by the last part, but regains his composure. Bennet tells Eden to prevent Mohinder from leaving New York and to \"bring in the precog.\" After Hank and Lisa exit the Bennet home, Noah Bennet follows the two outside and thanks them for their service. At this point his wife, Sandra, lets slip to Claire that they'd had problems finding her parents in the past and that she was surprised that Noah Bennet managed to do it now.\n\nBennet asks Isaac, whom Eden \"persuaded\" to come with her, to help him to prevent Claire from being murdered by Sylar at her homecoming game the next night. Bennet has collected three previous paintings Isaac created depicting a terrified Claire close-up, running up the bleachers in a football stadium, and lying dead on the ground with the top of her skull removed. When Isaac is unable to paint without the use of heroin and resists taking the drug, Bennet orders Eden to use her powers to make Isaac believe he wants to use the drug.\n\nBennet becomes frustrated after Isaac is unable to paint something that makes sense to him. When Eden protests his actions, Bennet shows her a series of photographs depicting Sylar's dead victims—all with their brains removed from their heads—and says he is determined to save his daughter from such a fate. He orders Eden to go to the homecoming game and look for Sylar and grounds Claire to prevent her from being killed. Bennet discovers later, however, that Claire snuck out and worriedly runs to the school to find her. When he arrives, he is too late to stop Sylar from attacking the cheerleader in the pictures. Bennet soon discovers that the victim was not Claire; rather, it was Jackie Wilcox, one of Claire's fellow cheerleaders. A relatively relieved Bennet soon reunites with his daughter and insists they go home while the police handle things. Claire says that she has something to tell her father regarding her uncanny survival.\n\nIn the episode \"Fallout\", Claire's father reveals that he knew about her powers long before she was aware of them. He acknowledges doing things he was not proud of to keep her safe, and tells Claire that Sylar had been taken care of, but that she must keep silent about her powers because she is in danger from others like him. Bennet later meets with Sylar, confined in a prison cell, and tells him that the cell is keeping his powers suppressed. Sylar taunts Bennet telling him that Bennet is just like him. In their next confrontation Bennet turns the taunt back at Sylar telling him how they plan to study him to determine what makes him \"tick.\" Sylar boasts that he would escape and kill Claire, taking her healing abilities. Eden suggests using her powers to persuade Sylar to kill himself, but Bennet declines (though briefly tempted), as he takes orders from someone higher up. Bennet later takes Claire to the police station, where she is interviewed about Jackie's murder. Officer Parkman is unable to read the thoughts of Claire or her father, since the Haitian is hiding behind a nearby corner. Afterwards, Bennet orders the Haitian to wipe the memories of his son and Claire's friend, Zach. When Claire finds out that the two of them have lost all memory of her powers she rings her father in a panic. It is left open whether it is only then that he orders the Haitian to wipe Claire's memories or whether he has already done so.\n\nIn \"Godsend\", Bennet believes Claire's memory has been erased. Claire acts as if it has, as well. However, Bennet and Claire are slowly drifting apart. At Primatech Paper, the FBI investigates the building as well as Bennet and his associates. Though they find nothing, Officer Parkman knows Bennet's up to something and has realized that Bennet kidnapped him. Bennet is unfazed, however, and simply tells Matt \"good luck\" in regards to his vendetta.\n\nNext, Bennet shows up at the apartment of Mohinder Suresh in New York. Mohinder is defensive, recalling Bennet's past actions. However, Bennet means him no harm, and even mentions Eden. Soon, he makes a proposition. Bennet tells Mohinder that together they could make a difference, and asks Mohinder to join him. Mohinder says he isn't interested, but Bennet leaves his card anyway.\n\nBennet returns to Sylar's holding area in \"The Fix\". There, he finds Hank telling him that Sylar's vital signs are highly irregular and he may be dying. Bennet tells Hank to keep him alive, referencing orders from his superiors to that effect. Furthermore, he states that Sylar will \"die on [Bennet's] terms,\" not his own. At home, Bennet finds Claire and Zach are \"working on a school project\" together, according to Claire. Claire also acts as if she'd rather not spend time with Zach. Bennet, however, tells her that she had been friends and encourages her to see if they might not find something in common. After Zach and she go upstairs, Bennet gets a call from Hank. Hank states that Sylar has died, which Bennet replies is \"less than ideal.\" Bennet then tells Hank to prepare Sylar \"for shipping.\" Back at Sylar's cell, Bennet finds the body of a dead Hank where Sylar should be. Bennet then turns around to find Sylar calmly standing in front of him. Sylar asks about Claire, then states his intentions to kill her. After telekinetically throwing Bennet against a wall and playing with the lights, Sylar leaves Bennet trapped in the cell. Later, at the Bennet home, he and the Haitian narrowly save Sandra from Sylar. Although Sylar escapes, Bennet is confident he will catch the killer. After the Haitian wipes Sandra's memories yet again, Bennet is called by Isaac Mendez. Mendez is revealed to be working with Bennet, as he relays information about Peter Petrelli.\n\nIn \"Unexpected\", Bennet and the Haitian manage to track down Peter and Claude. They fire Tasers at Claude, but Peter unexpectedly utilizes his powers to stop the electrodes and fly away from them. Bennet is then called by Claire, who tells him that Sandra has collapsed for unknown reasons. Bennet heads back home, and is confronted by Claire in the hospital, where she reveals that she remembers everything that the Haitian was supposed to erase. Afterwards, the Bennet family returns home, where they are confronted by Ted Sprague and Matt Parkman.\n\nThe episode \"Company Man\" begins with the hostage-taking of the Bennet family by Sprague and Parkman, who are in search of answers. Noah Bennet has revelations about his company during this situation, showing that he initially came to work for \"The Company\" under the supervision of a man named Thompson, and partnered with Claude. He is eventually ordered to kill Claude, because Claude apparently was hiding \"one of them\" from The Company. During the confrontation with Sprague, Thompson comes through the back door and shoots Ted, who goes into an uncontrolled radioactive state. Noah Bennet and Matt escape the house, while Claire tranquilizes Sprague. After this, Matt and Ted are taken to the paper factory. Thompson asks Bennet when Claire should be showing up at the factory. It is at that moment that Bennet realizes he's too attached to Claire. The graphic novel \"Family Man\" reveals that, at this point, Noah Bennet decides that he must do what he can to save Claire and \"bring down the people [he] work[s] for.\" Having noticed that he is being followed by someone from The Company, Noah Bennet drives to a cybercafé and sends a message to Hana asking for help, which she agrees to do. The episode ends with Noah Bennet taking Claire to the same bridge on which he shot Claude so many years ago. The Haitian shows up, and Bennet instructs the Haitian to shoot him in the stomach, then \"Go deep\" and wipe anything out of his memory that could lead \"them\" to Claire. The Haitian follows the order, then takes Claire away to protect her, as instructed.\n\nIn \"Parasite\", Bennet is questioned by Thompson; he claims that the last thing he remembers is driving home Sandra from the hospital. Later, before Noah Bennet is about to leave on business, Sandra tells him that she is only pretending to have had her mind wiped, as he told her to do; and that he had told her everything about what he really did, who he works for, and what happened to Claire. She gives him a note that he left for himself, warning him not to look for Claire because she is with friends. Then, Bennet and Candice travel to New York to \"clean up\" Isaac's mess. Upon his return home, Bennet tells Sandra that they both have to pretend that they have no idea what has happened, and that Primatech has to be stopped for good to ensure Claire's safety. \"Sandra\" then transforms back into Candice, and other members of the Company, including Thompson, enter the room behind her.\n\nIn \".07%\", Bennet is now in the custody of Primatech, in a solitary cell. His will to protect Claire is challenged by Candice, who shapeshifts into Claire's form; Bennet recognizes the ruse right away and tells her and Thompson that he does not know where Claire is and will never give her up to them. Thompson threatens to kill Bennet, but Bennet notes that if they really wanted him dead, they'd have killed him by now. Thompson tells Bennet that he is merely waiting on orders to do so.\n\nRealizing that the only hope of stopping Thompson and his superiors will be to escape from Primatech, Bennet telepathically gives instructions to Matt Parkman, who is also being held prisoner, on how to break out of his cell. Matt is then told to fetch Sprague from his cell so that Sprague can generate an EMP to shut down the power at Primatech, which will then allow them to break Bennet out of his cell. Matt is reluctant to go along with the plan, and Sprague doesn't trust Bennet, but eventually the three of them work together to escape.\n\nOver breakfast at the Burnt Toast Diner, Bennet reveals that the only way to stop Thompson is to get to New York City to destroy the tracking device that tracks heroes tagged with the neck tattoo, and he produces bus tickets to take them there. When Matt asks if Mr. Linderman is in New York, Bennet seems surprised by Matt's knowledge of the name. Matt guesses correctly that Bennet was \"middle management\" and is somewhat incredulous that Bennet seems not to know who was signing his paychecks all those years. Bennet tells Matt to forget about Linderman and that it is more important that they get to New York and destroy the tracker. Sprague casts the deciding vote to go to New York City, and Matt reluctantly agrees to join them on their destination.\n\nAfter escaping from Primatech Paper with Sprague and Parkman, the three of them head for New York to destroy the tracking system and the company. In \"The Hard Part\", Bennet, Parkman and Sprague steal a car and head for New York. Bennet reveals that the Company has a new tracking system called the Walker system. He reveals that this system doesn't need radio isotopes or tracers to find you; it just knows where you are. Unbeknownst to Bennet, the Walker tracker system is later revealed to be Molly Walker, who has the ability to mentally find anyone in the world, just by thinking about them.\n\nThe three arrive at Kirby Plaza, where Micah Sanders and Molly Walker are located. Claire sees the trio coming, and father and daughter reunite. Peter then notices his hands beginning to glow. Bennet realizes that Peter is absorbing Ted's power, and Peter and Claire look at each other worriedly.\n\nAfter Peter controls himself, the group splits in two, with Peter, Claire, and Sprague going to a remote town in Nebraska, and Parkman and Bennet continuing with their mission to destroy the tracking system. Bennet knows where they need to go, but he needs Parkman's powers to allow them access. Matt confronts a security guard and convinces him that they know each other and had spoken outside of work the previous night. Upon revealing an embarrassing secret of the guard's, the man lets them in without hesitation.\n\nWhile waiting for the elevator, they bump into Jessica and D.L., with Jessica surprised to see Matt still alive. The four go up in the elevator together, with Bennet telling them where to find Linderman. Bennet and Parkman then get off at the floor where the tracking system is, only to find Thompson waiting for them. Parkman saves Bennet from getting shot, only to have Bennet leave him defenseless against Thompson. Thompson then comes up behind Parkman, puts a gun to his head, and asks him, \"What am I thinking now, Parkman?\" Bennet comes from the side and says, \"Your last thought.\" killing Thompson with two point blank gunshots to the head.\n\nThe two then proceed to find the tracking system, where both are surprised to find it's a young girl — though only Matt is completely surprised: Bennet claims he knew it was a person, just not a little girl — whom Matt had previously rescued from Sylar, and who thought of Matt as \"my hero.\" Matt protests killing her, but Bennet says it must be done in order to save the others. The two continue to argue until Matt is suddenly knocked out by Mohinder from behind. The episode ends with Mohinder pointing a gun on Bennet while the latter points his gun on Molly, both men threatening to shoot.\n\nParkman wakes up, ending the standoff. Bennet asks Molly to locate Sylar, which she does - he's nearby.\n\nHe later finds Peter after he passed out from nearly exploding, thanks him for saving Claire and agrees to kill him if it comes to that. He also reveals his first name, telling Peter to \"Call me Noah.\"\n\nIn the climax of \"How to Stop an Exploding Man,\" Peter, Noah, and Matt confront Sylar in the plaza. Bennet is immediately thrown against a wall, rendering him incapable of stopping Peter if he explodes.\n\nFour months after the incidents in New York, the Bennets have gone into hiding, having moved to Costa Verde, California, and assumed the last name of \"Butler.\" Noah takes a subordinate job at a copy store called Copy Kingdom, and makes it very clear that he won't stand for his younger superior's bullying management style. Despite going into hiding, he is still working to take down \"the Company\" with the help of Mohinder Suresh.\n\nIn \"Lizards\", Noah tells his wife about a series of eight paintings done by the late Isaac Mendez, each depicting the death of a single person. He possesses the first, which predicts the death of Kaito Nakamura, and intends to locate the other seven. At the end of the episode, Noah is reunited with the Haitian; the accompanying graphic novel shows that Mohinder directed the Haitian to Bennet.\n\nIn \"Kindred\", Mohinder finds the last of the eight paintings, this one depicting Noah's death. He is lying on the ground with a bullet hole through the left lens of his glasses. A girl resembling Claire is in the background, apparently being held by someone.\n\nIn \"Fight or Flight\", Noah and the Haitian travel to Odessa, Ukraine, to find the remaining paintings. While there, he receives a call from Mohinder explaining that Molly Walker has fallen into a catatonic state and he wishes to take her to the Company for observation. Noah is unable to talk him out of it, though he warns that they'll have Mohinder as soon as he relinquishes that which he cares about.\n\nIn \"The Line\", Noah tracks down his old mentor, Ivan. He has the Haitian remove precious memories (marriage day, kids being born, etc.) from the old man one by one until Ivan succumbs and reveals where the paintings are. Knowing that his method of interrogation, as well as trying to use the Haitian to cover his tracks, will alert the Company, he instead opts to kill his mentor, making the affair appear to be a simple home invasion.\n\nIn \"Out of Time\", Noah and Suresh attempt to make sense of the paintings Noah and the Haitian have just found. The one in question is a painting of Suresh holding a Company-issue gun that has just been fired. Noah takes pictures of the paintings in an effort to send them to Suresh, but Suresh refuses stating his life may be in danger. Afterwards, Noah and the Haitian burn the entire collection and Noah returns home. West has dropped by without notice that same morning and made breakfast for Claire. As Noah walks into the house, West sees Noah and remembers who he is. West runs outside and abruptly flies away without being seen by Noah. Having left behind a newspaper detailing the incident with the drunk cheerleader, it ends up in hand of Noah, who sees it as a threat to the family. He confronts Claire and tells her she is putting the life of their family in danger. Furthermore, he tells her and the family to pack their things, and they are leaving immediately. Claire then calls her father out, stating that he was not being honest about his \"trip\" he took for \"management training\". Claire defiantly tells her father that she is not moving anywhere else and walks out of the room.\n\nIn \"Cautionary Tales\", Bob, Elle, and Mohinder arrive in Costa Verde to take Claire. Though they are eventually successful, Noah manages to capture Elle. Noah brokers a trade with Bob, getting his daughter back in exchange for Bob's. When Elle breaks free and tries to kill West and Claire, Noah shoots her in the arm. He then prepares to execute Bob, citing that Claire will never be free so long as the Company survives. But Mohinder shoots Noah, mimicking Isaac's painting exactly, and Noah is struck in the left eye and dies. While his family believes him to be dead, the episode ends with Noah in a Company facility, strapped to a gurney and being given a transfusion of Claire's blood; his destroyed eye subsequently regenerates and he returns to life.\n\nIn \"Truth & Consequences\", Mohinder tells him that he was revived with Claire's blood and that Claire is at home, thinking he is dead. During the episode, with Noah still in the hands of The Company, Bob visits the Bennets' home with an urn telling them that it contains Noah's ashes.\n\nIn \"Powerless\", Noah returns to his family, clearly shocking them all as he is allegedly dead. He tells them that he was brought back using Claire's blood, and that he made a deal with The Company which will allow his family to lead a normal life with one condition; he must stay with the Company. Noah then leaves his family.\n\nIn \"The Butterfly Effect\", Noah is imprisoned by the Company. Elle releases him from his cell so that he can help in the apprehension of Sylar during the attack on the Level 5 facility. After Elle inadvertently knocks out Sylar and causes a breakdown of the complex security system, Noah---fearing the worst after seeing Sylar demonstrate Claire's ability---places Sylar in a cell and makes his own escape. Later, when Noah visits the house and sees Claire alive but traumatized, he explains that he cannot stay as he has to recapture the superhumans who escaped during Sylar's attack, stating \"They're villains, Claire, and I'm one of the only people on the planet who knows how to stop them,\" and even showing her some info on the escapees. Before leaving, Noah tells her that he's enlisted Claire's biological mom, the pyrokinetic Meredith Gordon, to help protect the family.\n\nGoing back to the Company to bring the escapees in, Noah, on orders from new CEO Angela Petrelli, is partnered with Sylar, much to his chagrin. When they arrive at the bank where a group of escapees are causing trouble, Noah orders Sylar to stay out of his way and let him handle the escapees, but Sylar uses his sharp tongue to convince the police that they are FBI agents so they can get through. Noah manages to free the hostages, but is then taken hostage himself. Just as Knox and Jesse Murphy (now free of Peter's influence) are about to start beating him up, Sylar enters and stops them both with his telekinesis, also neutralizing Jesse's power. Noah reminds him of the \"plan\", and Sylar replies \"You just said that to make sure I didn't.\" Soon afterwards, Sylar loses control, locks Noah out of the bank, and kills Jesse for his power, allowing Knox to escape. Back at Level 5, Noah mentions to the Haitian that he only plans to be partnered with Sylar long enough to ascertain a weakness, to which then he'll kill him. When he chastises Sylar for the death of Jesse, he merely states that \"rehabilitation doesn't happen overnight.\"\n\nLater on, he and Sylar arrive at the home of Stephen Canfield and discover Claire there, having already attempted to capture him, only to find out that he is not truly evil. After Canfield opens up a vortex, which Claire, Noah, and Sylar barely avoid getting sucked into, and escapes, Noah orders Sylar to shut up after he attempts to apologize for what he did, and Claire tells him of Canfield's true colors. He assures her that he would not put someone in Level 5 who didn't belong there, and Claire tells him about Canfield's whereabouts.\n\nWhen they find Canfield, Noah attempts to force him to kill Sylar in exchange for his freedom, clearly convinced that Sylar cannot be redeemed, but Canfield instead opens up a vortex and sucks himself in, preferring death to becoming a monster. Noah and Sylar take Claire home, and the former assures her that he only does these things to protect her.\n\nWhen Claire, Meredith, and Sandra take down the puppet man Eric Doyle, they call Noah to take him in. Noah is impressed that Claire was able to help take out a very dangerous man, but Claire brushes him off, still angry with him about the Canfield incident and his partnership with Sylar. Noah then asks Meredith to accompany him as a partner.\n\nFollowing a phone call from Nathan Petrelli in \"Eris Quod Sum\", he and Meredith travel to Mohinder Suresh's laboratory in the loft of Isaac Mendez, where he advises Nathan and Tracy Strauss to get checked out by the Company.\n\nIn \"The Eclipse\", when Pinehearst begins looking for the catalyst needed to perfect Mohinder's genetic modification formula, which is assumed to be Claire, Noah goes into hiding with her at the now-abandoned Canfield house and begins to teach her how to fight, but the father-daughter duo are soon attacked by Sylar and Elle. As their (and everyone else's) powers are negated due to a solar eclipse, Noah is more than a match for them, even dislocating Sylar's arm, but is ultimately forced to retreat when Claire takes a bullet from Elle that was meant for him. Angered and worried, Noah takes her home where he and Sandra treat her wound, and he decides against going to a hospital, believing it to be minor and unwilling to take the risk of her powers returning while they are there. He then leaves to get revenge on Sylar and Elle for Claire's injury.\n\nNoah tracks Sylar and Elle down at the Canfield household and watches them have sex through the scope of a sniper rifle. Afterwards, he opens fire, misses, and then breaks into the house and shoots at them with a Company handgun, hitting Elle in the left thigh and forcing them into a retreat. While looking for them, Noah receives a call from Sandra in which she informs him that Claire is hospitalized. Instead of immediately rushing to the hospital, Noah follows a trail of Elle's blood to a local grocery store. After luring him into a back room, Sylar jumps him from behind, but he is once again outmatched without his powers against Noah's fighting skills. Ultimately, after tossing the ultimate insult (\"Poor Gabriel. You always wanted to be special. Now look at you; you're nobody.\"), he slits Sylar's throat with a box cutter. When he returns home, Claire is understandably angered with him for focusing on Sylar rather than rushing to the hospital. When Claire reveals that she had died in the hospital, Noah realizes something awful: if Claire's powers are back, then so are Sylar's. Indeed, Sylar and Elle, newly empowered, have made it to the Bennet household and are holding Sandra and Lyle hostage. Sylar telekinetically disarms Noah, pins him to the wall, and begins to strangle him with his powers. Claire desperately swears to go with Sylar in exchange for leaving her family alone, but Sylar is unsatisfied with that and begins to cut into Noah's neck, clearly intent on decapitating him. Fortunately, Hiro Nakamura arrives, teleports Sylar and Elle away, and then time-travels with Claire back to the day when his father first assigned Noah to protect her.\n\nWhen Claire is returned to the present by Arthur Petrelli, she, Noah, Meredith, and Angela are trapped in Primatech when Sylar initiates the lockdown mode. Noah sends three escaped Level 5 inmates (Echo DeMille, Eric Doyle, and Danny Pine) after Sylar as bait, promising freedom to the first one to kill Sylar. However, Echo and Danny are killed by Sylar, and Doyle is incapacitated. Soon afterwards, Noah is led into a trap by Sylar, who locks him in a cell with Meredith, who has been injected with adrenaline, her ability becoming increasingly uncontrollable, and leaves him with a handgun with one bullet. Sylar tells him that he will have to choose between killing Meredith to save himself and explaining her death to Claire, or doing nothing and being burnt to death. However, Claire arrives at that moment, and Meredith, as per Noah's orders, superheats the bulletproof glass of the cell to weaken it, and then Noah shoots the glass to no avail. Claire then bodily throws herself through the window to help Noah escape, which he does. After Claire \"kills\" Sylar, she escapes with Noah and Angela just as Meredith finally loses control of her ability and unleashes a massive explosion. Afterwards, Noah comforts a tearful Claire as they watch Primatech burn to the ground.\n\nIn \"A Clear and Present Danger\", Noah is seen to be working with Nathan Petrelli. When Mohinder Suresh is running away from Homeland Security, Noah arrives in a SUV and rescues him. As they escape, Noah asks him who he's been in contact with. They get to the exit only to discover that the hunter and his men have cut them off. Noah apologizes and then tasers Mohinder. When Peter Petrelli arrives at his apartment, Nathan is waiting for him. After he and Peter talk, Nathan smiles and asks for a hug, and Noah tasers Peter from behind. At the end of the episode, Noah is revealed to be the co-pilot of the cargo plane.\n\nIn \"Trust and Blood\", Noah survives the crash of the plane like almost everyone else. He is retrieved by Danko and his soldiers. Bennet chases after the captured heroes and finds Claire and Peter running together. Bennet quickly grabs Claire but wants to shoot Peter, but Claire manages to convince Bennet to let Peter run. Bennet takes Claire back to Nathan. However, after a brief interrogation, Claire gets rescued by Daphne and she gets reunited with Hiro, Ando, Mohinder and Matt. Though Danko's soldiers quickly find Claire and her friends and shoot Daphne. Matt then uses his powers to take over the soldiers and have them kill themselves. Danko wants to shoot Matt, but Claire takes the bullets for him and gets arrested instead while the others flee. Nathan and Bennet finally convince Claire to return home to Costa Verde, where her mom is revealed to think Claire just spent 2 days looking to college brochures. Bennet in the meantime stays behind looking for the fugitives. When having another shot to take down both Tracy Strauss and Peter, Bennet again chooses not to shoot down Peter and allowing him to escape. After arresting Tracy, Nathan even thanks Bennet for it.\n\nIn \"Building 26\" Claire reveals to her mother Sandra that Noah has been hunting down individuals with powers, and Sandra forces him to move out. He tells Claire that he will be around, and expresses a desire to be more honest with the family. He is later shown at a bar, where he is drugged and kidnapped by Peter Petrelli, Matt Parkman, and Mohinder Suresh.\n\nIn \"Cold Wars\" Noah is being interrogated by Matt Parkman, Mohinder Suresh, and Peter Petrelli. Matt Parkman manages to pluck out memories at the expense of Noah being in pain, learning about the operation hunting people with abilities, this is also where we lurn Noah is colorblind. Noah is rescued by Danko's men, and tells Danko that he will henceforth cooperate with Danko's more heavy-handed approach to their job. However, he later meets with Angela Petrelli, where it is implied that he is working with her against Danko. Their precise goals are unclear.\n\nIn \"Shades of Gray\", Nathan fires Danko as his second-in-command and appoints Noah to the position. Noah takes a call from Claire, who is asking how he managed to live a two-faced life for all this time, but Noah simply tells her he is the worst person to ask, and because she doesn't know which path to take, he doesn't know either. He later warns Angela that Danko is coming for her, but Angela says she is prepared. When Danko witnesses Nathan's ability of flight, he demands to know if Noah knew about it.\n\nIn \"Turn and Face the Strange\", Noah is accosted by Sandra in his hotel room, where she forces divorce papers on him and tells him she doesn't love him anymore. Noah discovers that she isn't really \"Sandra,\" but Sylar pretending to be her, as \"Sandra's\" signature on the papers is different from all of her other signatures. Discovering this, Noah confronts who he believes to be Sylar masquerading as Sandra in his hotel room, only to discover that it's the real Sandra, who is now scared to death of him and orders him out of the room. After being branded insane by Danko and his men, Noah is forced to run for his life and leave the operation. He is next seen driving up to Coyote Sands, meeting up with Claire and the Petrelli family.\n\nIn \"1961\", he is seen digging graves in \"Coyote Sands\" alongside with Claire, Peter and Nathan by orders of Angela, due to her dreams about finding her sister. When the sandstorm hits the place, he is out looking for Claire and then is taken down by Mohinder, who later explains his father's involving in the relocation project. After finding and losing Alice again, he is seen together with Claire and the Petrelli family eating at a diner, when Angela decide they should form a new company; minutes later, they witness another Nathan at a live press conference, and Noah recognize him as Sylar.\n\nFollowed in \"I Am Sylar\", as Nathan leaves the diner and Peter follows him, Noah, Claire and Angela decide to leave too, only to be intercepted in the road by Danko's agents.\n\nIn \"An Invisible Thread\", Noah is captured by the agents operating Building 26 shortly before Danko is framed for murdering several of his soldiers by Sylar. While captured, the two share a brief discussion about forming a partnership, which is ultimately short-lived. Once the two are freed from their cell by Hiro Nakamura, Danko waits for Noah to reveal what he knows about Sylar's plans and attempts to tranquilize him. Saved by Hiro, Noah intercepts Claire and Peter shortly after their encounter with Sylar and assists in convincing the Secret Service to help Peter save the President. Later, once Sylar is defeated, he works with Angela Petrelli and Matt Parkman to bring Nathan's personality to the forefront of Sylar's mind, thereby allowing Sylar to assume Nathan's life posthumously. After disbanding Building 26's personnel, the money is reallocated on \"Nathan\" and Noah's advice by the President into a new supervisory branch. When asked what to call this branch, Noah suggests, \"The Company.\"\n\nIn the wake of the events from \"An Invisible Thread\", \"Orientation and Jump, Push, Fall\" shows that Noah Bennet has begun to revive the Company under the auspices of the United States government, but with a slow start. Tracy Strauss is still unaccounted for and appears to be murdering anyone who had a hand in her incarceration.\n\nDespite her attempt on his life, which Bennet survived with the help of Emile Danko, he refuses to start hunting down superhumans as a vigilante, preferring instead to try and start the new Company under better pretenses. While eating in the restaurant underneath his apartment, Tracy Strauss approaches him, apparently to taunt him of his impending death. However, Bennet offers her a unique opportunity to simply walk away; if she does, he pledges to get Danko off her trail—permanently. After recruiting The Haitian to erase Danko's memories, Tracy shows up to kill him, only to find that Danko no longer remembers her. As she leaves, she hears Danko being attacked by an unknown assailant, Edgar, from the carnival, only to be attacked herself. Afterwards, she calls Bennet who discovers a key the assailant was after on Danko's body.\n\nThroughout these events, Bennet also tries to help Claire adjust to her new life in college while managing his own divorce from Sandra.\n\nBennet calls Peter Petrelli to help him check out the safe deposit box that it opens, which Peter agrees to for the opportunity to gain the attacker's power of super speed. They are attacked only once they find a single, antique compass in the safe deposit box, though Peter gains the upper hand and forces a retreat. Afterwards, Bennet holds onto the compass halfheartedly, feeling that it is a dead end.\n\nAfter being attacked later for the compass and barely surviving it, Noah calls Tracy both to talk about her new adjustments and for her company. The two share a meal together that Peter left behind to console Noah.\n\nIn \"Acceptance\", after a visiting Claire imparts some sage advice, Noah begins to realize that he wants to return to doing what he's good at, namely investigating superhumans. Then, Tracy seeks Noah advice as well, and he gives her the same message Claire told him: return to the basics to understand where to go from there.\n\nIn \"Tabula Rasa\", Peter comes to Noah looking for a healer to save Hiro's life; Noah drops the name of Jeremy Greer, a past target of a bag & tag mission, so both teleport to \"Cainan, GA\". After finding Jeremy's power change from heal to kill when he got angry at his parents, killing them, Noah helps him conquering his fear of killing anyone else, and then he is able to heal Peter; Noah states that his own power is to understand people with abilities. Peter leaves once he mimicked Jeremy's healing touch, but Noah stays to assure Jeremy will get the help he needs, mainly because Noah feels he let Jeremy down in the past.\n\nIn \"Strange Attractors\", despite Noah's effort to cover up Jeremy's parents death, the local sheriff holds him, so Noah enlists Tracy Strauss to help Jeremy start over. Once Jeremy is out, the townspeople believe Jeremy is guilty of charge, and frightened by them Jeremy accidentally kills a man, so he is taken by the police again, away from Noah and Tracy. They come across his dead body that night and lament their failure. Tracy tells Noah to never call her again, and both agree to go their separate ways.\n\nIn \"Once Upon a Time in Texas\", 3 years ago, during the time he worked for Primatech Paper as the events of Volume One \"Genesis\" unfold (\"Seven Minutes to Midnight\"), Noah is shown to share a special bond with fellow company agent Lauren Gilmore, who was his confidante when Noah cannot tell his family about what his job really entails, especially Isaac's paintings involving Claire. Noah and Lauren share a kiss at Lauren's motel room while wrapped in a romantic moment, however Noah stops the kiss, feeling that he is cheating on Sandra, and he and Lauren apologize for letting it get out of hand. Once back at the headquarters, Lauren gives him an envelope, in which he finds a note from her telling she got the Haitian mind-wiped any memory of her crush on Noah, so they could work together without any concern, and then writes a note to Noah to let him know this.\n\nIn \"Shadowboxing\", Noah appears at Becky's sorority house with the Haitian. Claire notices her friends have been mind-wiped and argues with Noah about what he is able to do with people around her, fearing they will erased Gretchen's memory as well. Once Claire and the Haitian go to check on Gretchen, Noah is out to find Becky at her room, and despite her being invisible, he states he knows how to deal with her because he once had an invisible partner (\"Claude\"). Becky confesses why she attacked Claire; Noah killed her father while she was a kid during a bag & tag mission. Noah misses her when two girls enter the room. Back to Claire, he found Samuel Sullivan with her. Getting protective, he handcuffs Samuel, but Becky comes in taking down Claire and Noah. Samuel takes Noah's taser and shocks Becky stating he knows she is messed up. Noah tries to attack him, pushing Claire away. After Samuel and Becky are gone, Noah apologizes to Claire, and then leaves. Once at his apartment, he looks at several files labeled to being Samuel's including the mysterious sinkhole that destroyed a manor (\"Ink\").\n\nIn \"Brother's Keeper\", Noah gets home to find Claire and Tracy sharing a quality moment, and notices a frozen foot at the coffee table. Both girls state nothing happened.\n\nIn \"Thanksgiving\", Noah invites Claire to his first Thanksgiving dinner so he won't be alone with Sandra and her new boyfriend. At the grocery store, he runs into Lauren Gilmore, whom he jokingly admits to be \"stalking\"; she then helps Noah shopping. Once Claire arrives at Noah's apartment, Claire notices Lauren, referring to her as Noah's date, which he refutes; once Sandra and Doug arrive, Sandra mistakes Lauren for a maid; after correction, Sandra believes Lauren to be Noah's date too. During dinner, Claire confesses her decision to drop out college, which Noah is immediately opposed to. After Claire cuts herself and Doug faints, she and Noah discuss the clippings on Noah's wall; Noah insists Samuel and the carnival are dangerous and shows her the compass. Gretchen then appears, and tells Claire she was invited by Noah as Claire was feeling bad those days. Once everyone is leaving, Noah assures Claire she has many options, unknowing she later takes this advice to visit the carnival. Before leaving, Lauren asks Noah to go out and watch a movie some day.\n\nIn \"The Fifth Stage\", Lauren appears at Noah's apartment ready to go out in their date, but Noah noticed Claire took the compass and must be heading to the \"Sullivan Bros. Carnival\", so Lauren decides to help him using her CIA contacts. Later that night, Eli shows up at the place looking for the Primatech files, surrounding Lauren and Noah with clones; both attack the clones and hide in the bathroom to arm themselves. Once out again, they notice Eli and clones are gone, and they took the files with them.\n\nIn \"Upon This Rock\", Noah is seen at Nathan's funeral.\n\nIn \"Let It Bleed\", Noah offers to take Claire to Nathan's wake but she becomes upset with him and realizes that Sylar killed Nathan and Noah transformed Sylar into Nathan. Noah admits that he did the wrong thing and that he thought he did it to keep Sylar detained and Nathan alive at the same time but Claire is angry and tells him she needs some to time to grieve, without being reminded of the truth.\n\nIn \"The Wall,\" in order to turn Claire against her father, Samuel has Damien use his powers to project Noah's memories in the House of Mirrors. It's shown that Noah started out as a too-honest used-car salesman who had a pregnant wife until she was killed by a man with telekinetic powers during a robbery which sent Noah after him looking for revenge. He also becomes a lot less honest. When he finds a man with powers, Noah demands the location of the killer's location which the man doesn't know and attacks him. Noah is forced to kill the man, the first time he ever killed anyone and this brings him to the attention of the Company who recruits him. In order to curb his more violent tendencies towards specials, they have him marry Sandra who is a waitress at a restaurant where he and Thompson eat together. Though Claire is horrified by the origin of her parents marriage, Noah assures her he really did love Sandra despite their arranged marriage and her opinion of Noah doesn't change for the worse, so Samuel locks them in a trailer together and buries them underground in order to force Claire to witness his death while she survives due to her powers.\n\nIn \"Brave New World,\" after being rescued from near-death by Tracy Strauss, Noah, Claire and Lauren travel to the Carnival to stop Samuel's plan to kill thousands of people. While Claire tries to convince the carnies of the truth, Noah tries to find Samuel, but is caught by Edgar. Once he clarifies that he is there to stop Samuel and not to hurt anyone else, Edgar, who also wants to stop Samuel, teams up with him to do so. The two arrive in time to back up Claire's allegations that Samuel killed Joseph and was responsible for the death of Lydia and what he plans to do. When a brainwashed Eli backs them up, the carnies believe them and abandon Samuel who starts his earthquake while Noah and Claire try to get everyone to safety. Thanks to Peter battling Samuel, Noah and Claire have enough time to locate Hiro and Ando and have them teleport all of the carnies away. Noah stays behind to finish the job and arrives after Peter defeats the powerless Samuel who collapses in despair at everyone's abandonment of him. Noah has him arrested and covers up the incident with the help of Lauren until Claire climbs the Ferris Wheel to expose her powers to the world which he tells Lauren is breaking his heart. Noah watches as Claire jumps off the Ferris Wheel in front of all the news cameras.\n\nBennet is a central character in the 2015-16 miniseries \"Heroes Reborn\", first seen in the web series Dark Matters, living as a car salesman four years after Claire's public reveal. He is tracked down by Quentin Frady, who has been researching Primatech and Renautas following the Odessa disaster and his sister's abduction.\n\nIt is revealed that Bennet was present in Odessa on June 13 when the Evo Summit was bombed. Noah was there to meet Claire, whom he believes to have died in the attack. Since then, he has been living under the identity of Ted Barnes and has attempted to move on with his life. Once confronted by Quentin, he begins to question what really happened at the summit and resumes his old identity to investigate. He follows a clue to an ophthalmology clinic in Dallas run by the Haitian. The Haitian returns to Noah his trademark glasses just before attempting to kill him. The two struggle before Bennet shoots him, killing him.\n\nBennet then decides to team up with Quentin to discover the truth behind the summit. The two travel to Primatech to recover Noah's old files in hopes of reuniting with Molly Walker.\n\nAfter rescuing Hiro Nakamura in \"Game Over\", Noah has Hiro take him back to the Evo Summit to save Claire and stop the bombing. After watching his past self be taken away by Erica Kravid, Noah is found by Angela Petrelli who informs him that Claire has been rushed to the hospital and is in surgery. While Hiro attempts to stop the bomb, Noah rushes to the hospital with Angela only to learn that Claire has died giving birth to twins. Noah says a tearful goodbye to Claire who doesn't revive for some reason. Hiro appears to him afterwards and informs him that he can't stop the bomb, there are too many variables and any attempt to stop it results in a worse future. As Hiro and Noah prepare to return to their own time, Phoebe Frady unleashes a massive wave of darkness that drains Hiro's powers shortly before Harris bombs the summit. Returning to Claire's children, Angela informs Noah that the Earth's magnetic poles will soon reverse and solar flares will wipe out all life on Earth. Erica Kravid only intends to save those she wants and Angela has foreseen that one or both of Claire's children hold the key to saving the world. Noah realizes he had his memory wiped to protect Claire's children from Erica Kravid and decides that the safest place for them is in the past where they can grow up and prepare for their destiny. When they reach the correct time, Erica will be looking for toddlers, not teenagers. Hiro reluctantly agrees to take Angela back to 1999 to fulfill Noah's request while Noah intends to erase all security footage of the babies. Before Hiro and Angela leave, Noah and Angela name the babies as Claire never got to: Angela names Claire's son Nathan after Nathan Petrelli while Noah names Claire's daughter Malina after his own mother. After Angela, Hiro and the children are gone, Noah realizes that Erica is in the hospital and goes after her to kill her. His past self, having escaped with the help of Caspar Abraham, spots Noah and chases him down.\n\nIn \"11:53 to Odessa\", Noah tries to get Malina to Odessa to stop the H.E.L.E. but during a massive storm, a car is flung right at him. Noah suddenly disappears leaving behind only his broken glasses.\n\nIn \"Project Reborn\", Tommy learns that in order for him and Malina to stop the H.E.L.E., they need a third person to act as a conduit for their power, someone willing to sacrifice themselves to save the world. Tommy goes back in time two days and saves Noah's life, transporting him seven years into the past to when Angela tested the twins powers. Noah watches as Angela states that there was a third faceless person in her vision and seems to look right at Noah. Tommy explains to Noah that after failing to stop the H.E.L.E. \"a thousand times\", he realized Noah was the key: if Noah acts as their conduit, they can stop it, but it will be fatal to him. Noah tells Tommy to take him to the present where he takes Malina's hand. Though Tommy protests, Noah tells him that this is his destiny and Tommy takes his hand. With the power boost from Tommy, Malina fires a blast of energy into the sky through Noah, causing him great pain but successfully shielding the planet from the H.E.L.E. and saving the world. After the future is changed, Tommy and Malina find Noah sitting on the ground, near death. Noah looks at his grandchildren one last time and tells them that he's proud of them before dying.\n\n\nNoah Bennet is initially introduced as \"the man in the horn-rimmed glasses,\" based on his distinctive eyewear. The glasses Coleman wears in most scenes are actually browline, not horn-rimmed, but none of the characters seem aware of the distinction. In the third episode, \"One Giant Leap\", his name was confirmed as \"Mr. Bennet\" and he has been occasionally referred to as such since. Still, \"Horn-Rimmed Glasses\" (or a variant of it) is the more often used name by the characters, albeit indirectly. For example, characters who don't know him personally usually describe him as \"the man with horn-rimmed glasses.\" With regard to Bennet's given name, Coleman has admitted that it was intentionally avoided. This is evident in \"Distractions\", where Mrs. Bennet remarks that she is amused that everybody called him \"Mister\", and almost states his first name before being interrupted. His driver's license, displayed by Sylar in the same episode, did not show a first name. According to Coleman, the character's first name was written out of a draft script because \"it stopped the scene cold.\" In the final episode of season one, \"How to Stop an Exploding Man\", Mr. Bennet tells Peter Petrelli to call him \"Noah.\"\n\nIronically, likely in a nod to the character's inaccurate name, Bennet tries on an actual pair of horn-rimmed glasses in a flashback sequence at the end of \"Company Man\". He decides not to wear them when Claire describes them as \"grandpa glasses.\" Claire subsequently selects the browline glasses (declaring that he now looks \"like my dad\"), which he then wears from that point forward.\n\nIn an interview with \"TV Guide\", Jack Coleman was asked \"were the horn-rimmed glasses your idea, or the writers?\" Coleman responded:\n\n"}
{"id": "56995498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56995498", "title": "Oliver Le Neve", "text": "Oliver Le Neve\n\nOliver Le Neve (1662 - November 1711) was a Norfolk country squire and landowning sportsman who lived most of his life at Witchingham Hall in Great Witchingham, Norfolk, England, and is significant for his 1698 mortal duel with Sir Henry Hobart of Blickling Hall, the last recorded duel fought in Norfolk.\n\nOliver Le Neve was born in 1662 to Francis Le Neve (d.1681), a London draper and upholsterer at Cornhill, and Avice, his wife, who was daughter to city merchant Peter Wright. Francis Le Neve, who may have been brought to London by his Norfolk kinsman William Le Neve, owned a modest amount of London property, warehouses and shops. Oliver Le Neve had an older brother, Peter, who became an antiquary, elected President of the Antiquarian Society in 1687, and became a Norroy King of Arms herald. Le Neve's immediate family originated in Norfolk, with the ancestral family dating there to at least the early 15th century, particularly at Ringland; his grandfather Firmian Le Neve was the first from Ringland known to live in London.\n\nAn older half-cousin twice removed of Le Neve, also called Oliver Le Neve (c.1600 - 1678) of Great Witchingham, who had been a stationer in London, willed in 1674 everything to his 10-year-old namesake, leaving the brother Peter as the recipient of the bequest if Oliver died without male heir. The settlement left Le Neve wealthy and the owner of Witchingham Hall, with his income being augmented by rent from his properties in London. Le Neve was sent to Hart Hall at Oxford in 1679-80, and later in life became a local magistrate and captain of the local militia.\n\nIn 1684 Le Neve married Anne Gawdy (1656 - 1696), who was from a further Norfolk gentry family at West Harling, typically of lawyers and MPs. Anne Gawdy was granddaughter to Sir William Gawdy (1612–1669), who was an MP in the Cavalier Parliament, and who had bought his baronetcy in 1663. Anne died in 1696 after producing two boys, one of whom died in 1689 in infancy, and three girls. Le Neve was a strong friend to Bassingbourne, Anne's brother, until his death of smallpox. He renovated and replanted gardens at Witchingham Hall, with plants, particularly fruit, he bought from local contacts, or in London and transported through the port of Great Yarmouth from the Thames. He shipped additional London purchases under personal request of the Gawdy family, particularly painting materials for the painter and brother of Bassingbourne, John Gawdy who succeeded to the Gawdy baronetcy as the 2nd Baronet.\n\nLe Neve became a popular and social focus for young Tory squires, the sons of Civil War cavaliers, with Witchingham Hall becoming a centre for convivial hospitality, and animosity towards the Whigs in power and the court. The pastimes he and his friends favoured were hunting with beagles, shooting, fishing, and horse racing at Newmarket. Through these he became close friends with John (Jack) Millecent, a rakish squire from Linton, Cambridgeshire, whose family also shared mutual animosity with their local Whigs. By 1894 Millecent had persuaded Le Neve to breed and keep his own beagle pack, sold to him by Millecent who later stated was \"the finest pack of Beagles in England\". The growing reputation of Le Neve's pack in 1697 prompted Sir Horatio Pettus Bt. to beg a hound off him, one of a number sold to members of the Norfolk gentry. In 1707, after hunting hare and fox in Norfolk, Essex and Surrey, Le Neve sold his pack, only to buy another soon after.\n\nLe Neve was a collector of ribald verse penned by his Witchingham Hall circle of friends which he edited and gathered into a folio miscellany, and which today is kept by Chetham's Library in Manchester. Some verses were by Le Neve himself, with titles such as 'Madam as victors when they quit the field', 'Tell me insipid lecher now the tide', and 'When Lydia thou the rosy neck and arms'.\n\nAfter the death of Le Neve's wife Anne, Millecent promoted a match with Jane Knyvet (b.1670), referred to as one of the \"Darsham Ladies\" of Suffolk, and the fourth daughter to Sir John Knyvet of Ashwellthorpe; Le Neve married her in 1698.\n\nLe Neve was frequently at odds with, and slighted by, Norfolk higher gentry who tended to be Whigs and supporters of William III. A particular earlier slight was the patronizing attitude of Thomas Browne of Elsing Hall over the 22-year-old Le Neve's trade (\"mircatorian\") family background.\n\nThis animosity came to a head during the election year of 1698. Sir Henry Hobart MP of Blickling Hall was \"the undisputed leader of Norfolk Whigs\", and an influential operator of Whig patronage of government, public office and county favours, part of a perceived corrupt regime that excluded Le Neve and his fellow Tories. The election was, however, a turning point for Hobart, a sitting MP. Three candidates contended for two positions: Sir Henry (Whig), Sir William Cooke (Tory), and Sir Jacob Astley (Whig). Hobart lost after spending a considerable sum to ensure his seat. In the heightened atmosphere surrounding the election, rumours were circulating about Hobart, particularly concerning his growing debts and creditors, and one that Le Neve was saying Hobart was a coward, especially during 1689-90 when he was Gentleman of the Horse for William III while campaigning in Ireland, and it was this poor reputation cost him the election. Le Neve denied the accusation. Hobart, who believed Le Neve was instrumental in his defeat, publicly accused him of spreading the rumour—this in the market square at Reepham in Le Neve's absence—and that the only reason he denied it was that he was too afraid to fight. Le Neve wrote to Hobart asserting again his innocence, but offering to give satisfaction to whomever had spread the rumour, saying if Hobart could not supply the name of the culprit, he would assume it was \"Blickling\" (code for Hobart himself) that was generating this quarrel, and that he would meet him at his choosing. An appointment was made for the duel.\n\nDuels had been tacitly assumed illegal since a 1614 edict by James I, but often a blind eye was turned. However, prosecution for duelling was a possibility, especially if no seconds or witnesses were present to assure fair play. Adam Nicolson in his book \"Gentry: Six Hundred Years of a Peculiarly English Class\" conjectures that despite this, the reason Hobart and Le Neve refused seconds was conversely to avoid any witness for possible prosecution. Some sources suggest that a young servant girl witnessed the duel from nearby bushes; reliable sources either don't mention this, or if they do, treat it as folklore.\n\nThe duel took place on Cawston Heath on 20 August 1698. Both men rode from their respective seats: Hobart from Blickling to the northeast, and Le Neve from Witchingham 4 miles to the southwest. During the duel the left-handed Le Neve was apparently struck in the arm and replied with a thrust to the belly. The mortally wounded Hobart returned to Blickling Hall, died the following day and was buried in the Blickling family vault. \n\nNarcissus Luttrell, parliamentary diarist, heard that Le Neve \"was wounded in the arm and Sir Henry run into the belly\" The antiquary John Nichols in 1812 stated that le Neve wasn't struck as Hobart's sword thrust was caught in a greatcoat Le Neve was wearing. Adam Nicolson believes these accounts say more about class attitudes towards the differences in the backgrounds of the two men: the rapier of the elegant swordsmanship of the grand gentry in its finery aiming for the arm and being tangled in the coarse cloth of the minor gentry, which replies with a stab to the belly. However Nicolson is sceptical, believing that as a captain of militia Le Neve would be more than skillful in refined use of sword, and on a possibly hot August day, would prefer not to be encumbered by a greatcoat.\n\nLe Neve decided to escape the area, concerned over repercussions of killing a Whig of such high rank. A £500 reward for capture was offered by Lady Hobart. The armed Norfolk Militia was set to look for him, some searching the Gawdy house at West Harling. From London, Le Neve left for Rotterdam, although occasionally returning incognito to London, where he was once nearly captured. He kept in touch with his family and friends who offered advice to avoid capture and provided Norfolk comestibles, he sending goods back from Holland. While on his travels and in Rotterdam he adopted the aliases of 'Davyes', 'Captain Janszen', and 'Mr Browne, the sword cutler'. He received a visit from his wife Jane in 1699. In East Anglia Le Neve was a hero and martyr for Tories, while the Whigs wanted him outlawed if he didn't return to face trial. His friends tried to arrange a sheriff and jury who would be, to their mind, honest and responsible. He returned and went on trial at Thetford assizes in 1700, was found not guilty, and returned to Witchingham. After Jane died in 1704, and was buried at St Mary's Church, Jack Millecent again turned matchmaker for Le Neve. He secured a further marriage on 31 July 1707 to Elizabeth (b.1678), daughter to his friend Robert Sheffield who was the grandson to the Earl of Musgrave; she was one of two eligible Sheffield sisters presented by Millecent. Three months later Elizabeth died.\n\nFollowing the duel, Lady Hobart erected a memorial stone plinth with urn at the site. Today the plinth is a Grade II listed structure.\n\nOliver Le Neve died on 23 November 1711 at West Harling, and was buried with his first wife Anne Gawdy at Great Witchingham. As his sons predeceased him, his estate passed to his elder brother Peter until his death in 1729, who in his will intended the estate to pass to his three nieces, Le Neve's daughters. However, after legal battles, with accusations by the Le Neves of conflict interest, the estate was taken through reversion of the will by the trustees of a John Norris, whose grandfather, a Norwich lawyer of the same name, had acted as trustee for the young Oliver Le Neve. The three daughters of Le Neve were ejected from the estate. These three surviving daughters by Anne Gawdy—Isabella, Anne and Henrietta—inherited the Gawdy estate at West Harling, and erected a chancel marble wall monument to their parents in St Mary's Church at Great Witchingham. The monument inscription reads:\nUnder the earth near this stone lyeth the dust of Oliver le Neve Esq late of this parish one of the Justices of the Peace and Captain of a Foot Company of the Militia of this County Second son of Frances le Neve gentleman Citizen and Draper of London and of Avice his wife daughter of Peter Wright and sister and heir of Peter Wright of London Merchant he died on the 23rd day of November Anno Domino 1711 and was buried on the 26th of the same month leaving behind him by his first wife Anne only ye daughter of Sir John Gaudy of West Herling in this County Baronet (who lyeth by his side) three daughters and co-heirs Isabella Anne and Henrietta Le Neve who caused this Memorial to be set up As also what remains of Elizabeth his second wife daughter and co-heir expectant of Robert Sheffield of Kensington in Middlesex Esq grandson of Edmund Earl of Mulgrave long since deceased she died suddenly on the 8th day of November 1707 without child and was buried here on the 12th day of the same month.<br>Tam Math quam Mercurio [\"As much a man of war as commerce\"]\n"}
{"id": "8837146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8837146", "title": "Raymond Gayrard", "text": "Raymond Gayrard\n\nPaul Joseph Raymond Gayrard (3 September 1807 – 1855) was French sculptor born in Clermont-Ferrand, France.\nHe studied at an early age under his sculptor/engraver father Raymond Gayrard, and was a student of Francois Rude as well as David d'Angers.\n\nGayrard first exhibited his works at the Salon in 1827 and continued to submit works throughout his lifetime winning a Second class medal in 1834 and a First Class Medal in 1846 and 1848. His last recorded exhibit was in 1855. He was very successful among the more wealthy of French high society and executed many busts of the more notables of the day, but had a considerable talent for animal modeling. His known bronze animal models date from the years 1846 until 1848 with his powerful plaster of a 'Harness Horse' exhibited at the Salon in 1847 and submitted again in 1848 in bronze. Also in 1848 his bronze of a 'Reclining Deerhound', thought to be first viewed when in plaster at the Salon in 1846, was particularly striking. One of his other animals groups titled 'The Monkey Steeplechase' is a rather humorous and whimsical subject done in a similar vain to Christophe Fratin's bronzes of humanized animals.\n\nHis monumental works include the four evangelists for the Sainte Clotide Basilica in Paris.\n"}
{"id": "1071374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1071374", "title": "Richard Bacon (broadcaster)", "text": "Richard Bacon (broadcaster)\n\nRichard Paul Bacon (born 30 November 1975) is an English television and radio presenter. He was a host of the children's show \"Blue Peter\"—his first high-profile media role—until he was fired in 1998 after 18 months for admitting to taking cocaine. He has since worked as a reporter or presenter on numerous television shows, including \"The Big Breakfast\", and on radio stations including Capital FM, Xfm London and BBC Radio Five Live. In 2016 Bacon became the presenter of The National Geographic Channel's reboot of its documentary/panel discussion TV series, \"Explorer\".\n\nBacon grew up in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, and was educated at St Peter's Church of England Primary School on Bellamy Road, followed by two independent schools, also in Nottinghamshire: at Wellow House School, a preparatory school on Newark Road in the village of Wellow, and then at Worksop College, a boarding school on Windmill Lane in the town of Worksop. He studied Business Studies with Electronics at Nottingham Trent University, but dropped out after a year.\n\nHis first job in the media was as a reporter for BBC Radio Nottingham, notably on the programme \"The Beat\". In February 1996 he joined L!VE TV as a reporter; this saw him being banned from the State Opening of Parliament, and having a beer thrown at him by Damon Albarn as he tried to interview him leaving a nightclub.\n\nBacon's television break was as a presenter on the children's show \"Blue Peter\", which he joined on 21 February 1997. He presented alongside Romana D'Annunzio, Katy Hill, Konnie Huq and Stuart Miles. On 19 October 1998 he was the programme's first-ever presenter to have his contract terminated in mid-season, after the tabloid newspaper \"News of the World\" published a report of Bacon taking cocaine. His tenure on the programme lasted just over 18 months. After his dismissal, the then Head of BBC children's programmes Lorraine Heggessey went on air to explain the situation to CBBC viewers.\n\nBacon's television career survived the setback, and he has since presented such shows as \"The Big Breakfast\", \"Top of the Pops\", and reality TV shows \"Back To Reality\" and \"Castaway Exposed\".\n\nIn August 2005 the band The Magic Numbers walked out of \"Top of the Pops\", after Bacon made a remark that was widely thought to be about the body shape of members of the band; during rehearsals he referred to the band as a \"big, fat melting pot of talent\".\n\nSince 2006 he has narrated and presented BBC Three's series \"Most Annoying People\".\n\nBacon guest-hosted ITV's \"This Morning\" during 2005, Channel 5's \"The Wright Stuff\" on several occasions during 2007 and 2008, and BBC Two's \"Something for the Weekend\" from 2008 to 2009. He was the narrator for series 1 to 3 of Sky's police documentary \"Brit Cops\".\n\nIn late 2010 he presented \"Richard Bacon's Beer & Pizza Club\" on ITV4. A second series aired in late 2011. Just before the 2010 World Cup he hosted a show called \"World Cup's Most Shocking Moments\", with Peter Crouch.\n\nBacon presented editions of BBC Three's \"Young Voters' Question Time\". He has made several TV cameo appearances as himself, including \"Hotel Babylon\" in 2007 (in which his character hires escort girls to play Scrabble with him all night), the episode \"Video Killed the Radio Star\" of the TV series \"FM\", an episode of \"The Thick of It\" (both in 2009) and an episode of \"Psychoville\" in 2011. In October 2011 he hosted BBC Three's \"Up for Hire\", an interactive series over the course of five nights tackling one of Britain's biggest issues – youth unemployment.\n\nIn April 2012 he presented the Channel 4 television series \"Hidden Talent\", where each programme featured ordinary members of the public taking tests in certain fields or skills to identify any previously unidentified talent.\n\nOn 25 November 2013 Bacon hosted one series of ITV's game show \"Show Me the Telly\". On 8 December 2013 he guest-presented an episode of \"Sunday Scoop\".\n\nOn 17 February 2014 he hosted a one-off show, \"Benefits Britain: The Debate\", for Channel 4. In 2014 he presented the live Channel 4 programme \"How Rich Are You?\", about the UK economy.\n\nIn 2015, Bacon co-presented the first series of \"The Big Painting Challenge\" alongside Una Stubbs for BBC One, and sports show \"Eternal Glory\" for ITV. He also joined Reena Ninan as a substitute co-host of the American Broadcasting Company's \"World News Now\" overnight and \"America This Morning\" news program.\n\nBeginning on 14 November 2016, the U.S. worldwide educational cable network National Geographic Channel (hereinafter NGC) debuted its \"global\" overhaul and rebranding of the channel with its entirely new primetime lineup that night: the much-anticipated, multi-million U.S.-dollar docudrama miniseries \"Mars\", followed by the NGC reboot of \"Explorer\", and then \"Star Talk\", a lighthearted panel-discussion series loosely centered around astrophysics and astronomy, hosted by astrophysicist Dr. Neil DeGrasse Tyson. Bacon became the presenter for the \"Explorer\" programme, which comprises several (usually three [3]) short films, introduced by Bacon and shot from all over the world, involving matters of social, political, environmental, and/or humanitarian significance. Each film is then discussed before a live studio audience with Bacon moderating and usually includes the filmmaker or another representative of the film. Then, at least one expert on either side of the issue also joins the discussion. The live-audience segments of each episode of \"Explorer\" are filmed at CBS Studios in New York City. For the debut show, Bacon hiked through Yosemite National Park with President Barack Obama.\n\nIn June 2017, he began hosting a daily half hour newsmagazine show called \"\"Top 30\"\". it originally aired on Fox affiliates for four weeks before being picked up as a regular series, broadcast nationally across America, in September 2017.\nOn September 13, 2017, it was renewed through 2019.\n\nBacon joined BBC Radio 5 Live to present the late-night show on Saturdays and Sundays. After this, he worked as an announcer for BBC 7 and then a DJ for Capital FM followed by Xfm London.\n\nHe returned to 5 Live, and from November 2007 until December 2009 presented the late-night programme, in which his sign-off (\"Goodnight Great Britain, wherever you are\") copied that of Jack Killian, the main character in the NBC television series \"Midnight Caller\". He also on occasion stood in for Simon Mayo in the daytime film review programme, and stated that his favourite film is \"The Apartment\".\n\nIn January 2010 Bacon became the regular presenter of the 5 Live mid-afternoon show from Mondays to Thursdays, where he replaced the departing Simon Mayo. The show covered news, sport, celebrity interviews and special features. On Tuesdays there was a TV review with Boyd Hilton and another guest, looking back over the week's television and previewing future programmes. In the Moan-In on Wednesdays, listeners could share their moans and receive marks out of 10 from Bacon and a guest, often Dave Vitty. On Thursdays the feature was Chart The Week, where two guests would discuss the week's most talked-about news stories. At the same time, Bacon started to present a regular Saturday afternoon show on BBC Radio 6 Music; he later left to concentrate on other commitments. He returned to 6 Music in January 2012 for six weeks to present a Saturday morning programme.\n\nBacon's afternoon show attracted criticism for its content, which was classified by the BBC Trust as \"news\". Rival broadcaster Talksport made a general complaint in 2010 to the BBC Trust, claiming the BBC Radio 5 Live station was not providing its mandatory 75% news output, \"with many items falling outside of the remit, such as 'entertainment-based interviews' ... and listener-generated features.\" Talksport's complaint \"particularly singl[ed] out Bacon's two-hour weekday afternoon show for criticism\", finding in a poll that only 20% of listeners considered Bacon's show to comprise \"news\". In their response, the BBC Trust rejected Talksport's complaints, but admitted that a review was required to develop \"'a more nuanced method of monitoring the proportion of news output' on 5 Live compared to the current system, which counts the whole of Richard Bacon's afternoon show as news\".\n\nIn August 2011 Bacon recommended that his listeners should watch a YouTube video of comedian Doug Stanhope, in which he mocked Sarah Palin's disabled son Trig. The Down's Syndrome Association complained to the BBC about the broadcast, stating \"the association is shocked that a BBC employee has publicised the work of a comedian which is nothing more than a vile offensive rant.\" Both Bacon and the BBC apologised for the broadcast, with Bacon writing \"I full well understand my responsibilities as a broadcaster and such a reference fell below the standards I set myself personally in my broadcasting.\"\n\nOn 1 July 2014 it was announced that Bacon would be leaving BBC Radio 5 Live later in the year. Bacon's last Radio 5 Live show was broadcast on 24 September 2014.\n\nBacon also has covered for Simon Mayo on his BBC Radio 2 Drivetime show, when Mayo was on holiday in August 2015, and more recently in April 2016.\n\nBacon married Rebecca McFarlane in 2008. They live in Los Angeles, where Bacon works in U.S. television. His father-in-law is John McFarlane, currently serving as chairman of Barclays. On 31 October 2011 his wife gave birth to a son, Arthur and a daughter, Ivy, in 2014.\n\nIn October 2011 Bacon announced on his podcast that he had been contacted by the Metropolitan Police, who advised him that his phone had been hacked by the private investigator Glenn Mulcaire.\n\nOn 28 March 2018 Bacon explained to Nicky Campbell in an interview with BBC Radio 5 Live that at the age of 42 he was diagnosed with Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) which he said is “I like having it a lot, it is who I am. It’s just learning to work with it and manage it means that life gets less chaotic and painful for my wife and children”\n\nIn July 2018, he was placed in an induced coma, after becoming ill with pneumonia.\n\nBacon was a celebrity supporter of the British Red Cross and is particularly interested in their National Flood Appeal and international messaging services.\n\n"}
{"id": "407889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407889", "title": "Robert Aderholt", "text": "Robert Aderholt\n\nRobert Brown Aderholt (born July 22, 1965) is the U.S. Representative for , serving since 1997. He is a member of the Republican Party. The district includes most of Tuscaloosa County north of the Black Warrior River, as well as the far northern suburbs of Birmingham in Walker County and the southern suburbs of Huntsville and Decatur.\n\nAderholt is a member of the congressional Tea Party Caucus and has taken conservative stands on issues such as abortion, tax reform, and defense spending.\n\nAderholt was born in Haleyville, Alabama, to Mary Frances Brown and Bobby Ray Aderholt. Aderholt's father, a part-time minister for a small group of Congregational churches in northwest Alabama, was a circuit judge for more than 30 years. He attended the University of North Alabama and then Birmingham-Southern College from which he graduated. During college, Aderholt was a member of Kappa Alpha Order. Aderholt received his J.D. from the Samford University Cumberland School of Law and practiced law after graduation.\n\nIn 1992, Aderholt was appointed Haleyville municipal judge. In the same year, he was a delegate to the Republican National Convention. In 1995, he became the top aide to Governor Fob James. He won the 1996 Republican primary in the race to succeed 15-term Democratic incumbent Tom Bevill.\n\n\n\nSponsor HR 3808: Interstate Recognition of Notarizations Act of 2010, 111th Congress\n\nThe bill was cosponsored by Reps. Bruce Braley (D., Iowa), Michael Castle (R., Del.), and Artur Davis (D., Ala.).\n\nH.R. 3808 Interstate Recognition of Notarizations Act of 2010 – To require any Federal or State court to recognize any notarization made by a notary public licensed by a State other than the State where the court is located when such notarization occurs in or affects interstate commerce.\n\nApril 27, 2010: This bill passed in the House of Representatives by voice vote. A record of each representative's position was not kept.\n\nSeptember 27, 2010: This bill passed in the Senate by Unanimous Consent. A record of each senator's position was not kept.\n\nOctober 8, 2010: Vetoed by President.\n\nH.R. 2017 Continuing Appropriations Act, 2012\n\nMay 26, 2011: Introduced\n\nJune 2, 2011: Passed House with amendments\n\nSeptember 26, 2011: Passed Senate with amendments\n\nSeptember 30, 2011: Became Public Law 112-33\n\nAs the Republican nominee, Aderholt faced a considerable challenge against State Senator Bob Wilson Jr., who called himself a Democrat \"in the Tom Bevill tradition\". This was a seriously contested race, receiving a deal of national coverage and significant support from the Republican Party. Newt Gingrich personally visited the district during the campaign. Aderholt won narrowly, 50%–48%, becoming only the second Republican to represent this district since Reconstruction. The first, Jim Martin, was swept into office in what was then the 7th District during the 1964 wave that delivered the state's electoral votes to Barry Goldwater. Aderholt has never faced another contest nearly that close, and has been reelected nine times. He even ran unopposed in 2004, 2010, 2014, and 2016.\n\nAderholt's increasing margins reflected the growing Republican trend in this part of Alabama. While Democrats still have a majority in voter registration, the district's Democrats are very conservative on social issues, even by Alabama standards. With a Cook Partisan Voting Index of R+30, it is the fifth-most Republican district in the nation and the third-most Republican district east of the Mississippi.\n\nAderholt was reelected in the November election where he beat State representative Daniel Boman, the Democratic nominee.\nIn 2012 Aderholt raised $1,207,484.98 for his campaign, but spent only $963,859.15. Parker Towing was his largest contributor, providing $24,000.00. $493,856, 41% of his contributions came from large individual contributions. $583,000, 48% came from PACs.\n\nHe does not support reducing the defense budget to close the American deficit, and in May 2012 said \"cuts to defense budgets – the federal government's primary Constitutional responsibility – shouldn't be the relief valve for uncontrolled domestic program spending\". \n\nDuring the 2013 111th Congress, Aderholt voted for the amendment by Rep. Scalise (R-LA) which would \"require that Congress be allowed to vote on any executive regulation that would impose any tax, price, or levy upon carbon emissions... effectively prevents the executive branch from levying any form of carbon tax without Congressional approval. Since a carbon tax would be tremendously destructive to the economy as a whole, this measure would hopefully make such a tax unlikely to pass.\" Aderholt opposed regulations on greenhouse gas emissions, and in December 2008 helped write a letter to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) which stated, \"I am opposed to any attempt to impose greenhouse gas regulations under the Clean Air Act on the agricultural industry.\" Aderholt was against the policies promoted by the Copenhagen Climate Change Conference as well as the US proposed Cap and Trade Bill, part of what he argued was an \"unrealistic carbon emissions reduction mandate\" that would result in a loss of American jobs. He agreed with the global warming petition project that, \"[t]here is no convincing scientific evidence that human release of carbon dioxide, methane, or other greenhouse gases is causing, or will in the foreseeable future, cause catastrophic heating of the Earth's atmosphere and disruption of the Earth's climate.\"\n\nAderholt is a supporter of gun rights. He was endorsed by the National Rifle Association in the 2010 general election, and received $2,000 from them.\n\nIn the wake of the 2016 Orlando nightclub shooting, Aderholt called it a terrorist attack and stated \"we do not have the luxury of debating the political correctness of 'radical Islam'.\" He stated a need to \"hunt down those who would do us harm.\" He opposed the media and President Obama using the shooting to \"push any type of political agenda relating to gun control. He made a call to the White House and Congress to \"protect the homeland.\"\n\nAderholt is opposed to same-sex marriage. He has received high ratings from the Family Research Council, the Traditional Values Coalition, and the American Family Association. In 2013, the Human Rights Campaign gave him a score of 0 on its Congressional Scorecard.\n\nIn December 2011, Aderholt voted in support of H.R. 10, the \"Regulations From the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act,\" which would have required congressional approval for any \"major regulations\" issued by the executive branch but, unlike the 1996 Congressional Review Act, would not require the president's signature or override of a probable presidential veto.\n\nDuring the \"March for Life\" rally in Washington on January 22, 2010, he said, \"The issue of abortion and the sanctity of life is something that I feel strongly about and I encourage my colleagues to look for ways to curb and stop abortions in the United States, while compassionately educating on this important issue.\"\n\nAderholt is a signer of Americans for Tax Reform's Taxpayer Protection Pledge.\n\nHe voted in favor of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Aderholt said he voted for the bill \"to give back more money to Alabama taxpayers.\" He also stated that the bill \"does the right thing.\" He cited the raising of the child tax credit, changes to the state and local tax deductions, and stated that \"more than 80% the people in the 4th District of Alabama will receive a tax cut.\" Aderholt also says that more businesses will stay in the US due to a lower corporate tax rate and therefore the act is a \"jobs bill.\"\n\nAderholt is married to the former Caroline McDonald. Her father Albert McDonald served in the Alabama State Senate and was Alabama Commissioner of Agriculture and Industries. They have two children, Robert Hayes and Mary Elliot.\n\nAderholt has been awarded the following foreign honor:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15667248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15667248", "title": "Samy Kamkar", "text": "Samy Kamkar\n\nSamy Kamkar (born December 10, 1985) is an American privacy and security researcher, computer hacker, whistleblower and entrepreneur. At the age of 16, Kamkar dropped out of high school and one year later, co-founded Fonality, a unified communications company based on open source software, which raised over $46 million in private funding. He is possibly best known for creating and releasing the fastest spreading virus of all time, the MySpace worm Samy, and being subsequently raided for it by the United States Secret Service, under the Patriot Act. He is also known for creating SkyJack, a custom drone which hacks into any nearby Parrot drones allowing them to be controlled by its operator, and for creating the Evercookie, which appeared in a top-secret NSA document revealed by Edward Snowden and on the front page of \"The New York Times\". He is also known for his work with \"The Wall Street Journal\" and his discovery of the illicit mobile phone tracking where the Apple iPhone, Google Android and Microsoft Windows Phone mobile devices transmit GPS and Wi-Fi information to their parent companies. His mobile research led to a series of class-action lawsuits against the companies and a privacy hearing on Capitol Hill.\n\nIn 2005, Kamkar released the Samy worm, the first publicly released self-propagating cross-site scripting worm, onto MySpace. The worm carried a payload that would display the string \"but most of all, Samy is my hero\" on a victim's profile and cause the victim to unknowingly send a friend request to Kamkar. When a user viewed that profile, they would have the payload planted on their page. Within just 20 hours of its October 4, 2005 release, over one million users had run the payload, making it the fastest spreading virus of all time. The MySpace team temporarily shut down MySpace to fix the problem that allowed the worm to operate.\n\nIn 2006, Kamkar was raided by the United States Secret Service and Electronic Crimes Task Force, expanded from the Patriot Act, for releasing the worm. After being presented with a plea bargain for no prison time, but paying a fine of $20,000 USD, serving three years of probation, working 720 hours of community service, Kamkar pled guilty to a felony charge of computer hacking in Los Angeles Superior Court. Also per the aforementioned agreement, Kamkar was allowed to keep a single unnetworked computer, but explicitly prohibited from any internet access during his sentence. Since 2008, Kamkar has been doing independent computer security and privacy research and consulting.\n\nIn 2008, after Kamkar's restriction from computers was lifted, he demonstrated weaknesses in Visa, MasterCard and Europay credit cards with near field communication (NFC) and radio-frequency identification (RFID) chips built in and released software demonstrating the ability to steal credit card information, including name, credit card number, and expiration date, wirelessly from these cards. He also released code demonstrating wireless identity theft of physical access control cards, including that of HID Global cards, using RFID with the use of only a credit card sized device, removing the need for any computer to be connected.\n\nIn 2010, Kamkar traveled to more than a dozen countries speaking about his mobile security research and weaknesses he discovered from his cryptanalysis of the PHP programming language, including speaking at some of the largest annual hacker conventions in the world such as DEF CON, Black Hat Briefings and ToorCon.\n\nIn late 2010, Kamkar traveled to Bratislava to attend Faraday Hack Day to help expose political and corporate corruption within Slovakia's government.\n\nIn early 2011, Kamkar joined the Board of Directors of Brave New Software, a non-profit organization originally funded by a multimillion-dollar U.S. State Department grant. The nonprofit is responsible for creating uProxy with the University of Washington and Google Ideas, a browser extension intended to allow users in repressive regimes to access the Internet without being monitored. The nonprofit also created Lantern, a network designed to circumvent Internet censorship and defeat the suppression of digital information and freedom of speech.\n\nIn addition to releasing the Evercookie as free and open source software, and exposing the surreptitious collection of data by Apple, Google and Microsoft, in 2011 Kamkar also exposed KISSmetrics and Hulu as recreating tracking cookies after consumers deleted them by storing the unique tracking identifiers in Flash cookies and HTML5 Local Storage, which were not automatically deleted when consumers cleared their browser cookies.\nSeveral companies identified as performing cookie respawning were subsequently sued by class-action lawyers. In January 2013, KISSmetrics, an online advertising network, settled its cookie respawning related lawsuit for $500,000.\n\nIn early 2010, Kamkar discovered a major flaw in all versions of the PHP programming language, specifically in the pseudorandom number generator, which allowed an attacker to hijack the session ID of a user and take over their session. Kamkar released a patch and once fixed, released exploit code demonstrating the attack which was possible on major banks, social networks, and forums.\n\nIn 2010, Kamkar released Evercookie, a cookie that \"apparently cannot be deleted\", which subsequently was documented on the front page of \"The New York Times\". In 2013, a top-secret NSA document was leaked by Edward Snowden citing Evercookie as a method of tracking Tor users.\n\nIn 2011, Kamkar discovered the iPhone, Android and Windows Phone mobile devices were continuously sending GPS coordinates, correlated to Wi-Fi MAC addresses, back to Apple, Google and Microsoft respectively, and released his research through several front page \"The Wall Street Journal\" articles. The iPhone would continue to send location data \"even when the location services were turned off\". The Windows Phone would also continue to send location data \"even when the user has not given the app permission to do so\". He discovered that some of this data was exposed by Google and he released Androidmap, a tool exposing Google's database of Wi-Fi MAC addresses correlated to the physical coordinates populated by Android phones.\n\nIn 2013, Kamkar created SkyJack, a combination of open source software and hardware to run on an unmanned aerial vehicle which was \"engineered to autonomously seek out, hack, and wirelessly take over other Parrot drones within wifi distance, creating an army of zombie drones\". The entire software and hardware specification was released as open source and detailed on his website. The software was released one day after Amazon.com announced Amazon Prime Air, a possible future delivery service using drones to deliver small packages in as early as 2015.\n\nOn July 30, 2015, Kamkar introduced OwnStar - a small electronic device that could be concealed on or near a General Motors vehicle to interpose itself between the vehicle's OnStar link and the driver's OnStar RemoteLink app. In this classic man-in-the-middle attack, Kamkar, or any unauthorized user, could substitute his OnStar commands to locate, unlock, or start the vehicle. By August 11, General Motors had released upgrades to the OnStar server software and RemoteLink app to block such attacks.\n\nIn 2015, it was reported that Kamkar had built an inexpensive electronic device about the size of a wallet that could be concealed on or near a locked vehicle to capture a single keyless entry code to be used at a later time to unlock the vehicle. The device transmits a jamming signal to block the vehicle's reception of rolling code signals from the owner's fob, while recording these signals from both of his two attempts needed to unlock the vehicle. The recorded first code is sent to the vehicle only when the owner makes the second attempt, while the recorded second code is retained for future use. Kamkar stated that this vulnerability had been widely known for years to be present in many vehicle types, but was previously undemonstrated. A demonstration was announced for DEF CON 23.\n\nOn November 24, 2015, Samy Kamkar released MagSpoof; a portable device that can spoof/emulate any magnetic stripe or credit card \"wirelessly\", even on standard magstripe readers by generating a strong electromagnetic field that emulates a traditional magnetic stripe card.\n\nIn his own words, MagSpoof can be used as a traditional credit card and simply store all of your credit cards (and with modification, can technically disable chip requirements) in various form factors, or can be used for security research in any area that would traditionally require a magstripe, such as readers for credit cards, drivers licenses, hotel room keys, automated parking lot tickets, etc.\n\nOn November 16, 2016, Samy Kamkar released PoisonTap; a USB ethernet emulator that can be used to hijack all Internet traffic on a target machine, even if the computer was password protected and locked.\n\nA backdoored device can be remotely forced to make a request with its user's cookies on http websites that have no security flags, meaning that the attacker can remotely impersonate a local user.\n\n"}
{"id": "43093205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43093205", "title": "Susan Gerbic", "text": "Susan Gerbic\n\nSusan Marie Gerbic (born August 8, 1962) is an American skeptical activist living in Salinas, California. Gerbic is the co-founder of Monterey County Skeptics, founder of Skeptic Action, founder and leader of the Guerrilla Skepticism on Wikipedia (GSoW) project, a recurring contributor to the \"Skepticality\" podcast, a regular contributor to \"Skeptical Inquirer\", and a fellow of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry. Gerbic has focused much of her skeptical activism on people claiming to be \"clairvoyant mediums\", such as Sylvia Brown and Tyler Henry, whom she calls \"Grief Vampires\".\n\nGerbic's interest in paranormal and fringe topics began during childhood, when she was most frightened by spontaneous human combustion, \"the idea that you could be walking down the street and suddenly, BOOM!\" She grew up in Salinas as a Southern Baptist who became interested in skepticism in the 1990s. \"I had never heard the word atheist until I was in my late teens,\" Gerbic told Skeptical Inquirer editor Benjamin Radford. \"Once I found out there were other people who felt the way I did, I read everything I could on the subject\". In 2000, Gerbic discovered that there was a community of skeptics and went to her first conference, Skeptic's Toolbox in Eugene, Oregon a month later. \"I felt like I had found my people.\"\n\nIn a 2017 article she wrote for \"Skeptical Inquirer\" magazine, \"How I Got Hooked on the Skeptical World,\" Gerbic related how her transformation into a scientific skeptic began after finding \"Skeptical Inquirer\" saying:\nIn February 2018, The Center For Inquiry announced that Gerbic had been appointed a fellow, stating that \"CSI fellows are elected for their distinguished service to science and skepticism, serving as advisers to CSI and its magazine, \"Skeptical Inquirer\", and are invited to share their expertise and advice on the program’s issues and projects.\" Prior to this appointment, Gerbic served as a scientific and technical consultant for the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry.\n\nAfter Gerbic's experience with three \"Amazing Adventure\" cruises put on by the James Randi Educational Foundation and several of The Amaz!ng Meetings she decided it was \"time for me to do something\". Her first contributions were a photo of Brian Dunning to Wikipedia, then she slowly learned how to edit and improve Wikipedia articles. Gerbic and Mark Edward proposed \"Guerrilla Skepticism on Wikipedia\" (GSoW) as a Skepticamp presentation, choosing that title to describe skeptical activism that is \"more underground, more grass-root, more mole-like\". The idea for organized effort came from Tim Farley after Gerbic's attempts to use typical and found them dormant and not user-friendly for new editors. She then started communicating and training others on Facebook and by email.\nThe skepticism on Wikipedia effort grew after presentations at SkeptiCalcon and a Sunday paper presentation at The Amaz!ng Meeting and she created a blog on the subject. She stated that the formal beginning of GSoW is May 2010, yet its birthday is celebrated in June. Gerbic is often asked about her Wikipedia contributions and edits: \"I discovered that there are people in our community that have been looking for a way to become more involved but need more structure, support, and training.\" When people ask how they can help the skeptical movement, Gerbic is quick to suggest that they, too, learn to edit Wikipedia: \"We rewrite Wikipedia, and proof the pages, we remove citations that are not noteworthy, we add citations, we do just about everything in Wikipedia to improve content.\" Emery Emery asked Gerbic: \"This was a need right?\" Gerbic responded: \"I was trying to find something to do. It was my time to step up and take on some responsibility... I'd attended the lectures, I'd read the books, it was my time.\"\n\nGerbic promotes the approach of identifying skepticism-related articles that are in need of improvement. Articles are improved by the addition of references from popular writing, podcast, and other citations: \"It's just lots and lots of research. Because we are a team of friends we can share resources and work reviews. It is often necessary to interview notable persons to improve the citations and resources.\" She used the example of psychic Sylvia Browne's Wikipedia page during the Amaz!ng Meeting lecture, suggesting that people looking for information might prefer Wikipedia as a neutral, virus free, user friendly site. She calls this the Goldilocks effect.\n\nGerbic spends much of her Wikipedia-related time helping new editors learn to perform basic tasks in Wikipedia. New editors to the GSoW users group are encouraged to identify notable references and add them to various related pages. Gerbic calls such edits \"backwards editing\", which is the reverse of the more typical process where one subject is enhanced from multiple references. In an interview with Richard Saunders, she states that this kind of project is \"a perfect storm, we would never have been able to do this without [the Internet]\".\n\nGerbic states that the \"We Got your Wiki Back Project!\" is a popular GSoW sub-project. She relates that the project's goal is to improve the Wikipedia pages for all skeptical spokespeople: \"When they are in the media's eye, we know that their Wikipedia page views are going to spike.\" \"When people are looking for information, we want to make sure they are getting great information,\" says Gerbic on the Data Skeptic podcast.\nIn order to promote Guerrilla Skepticism on Wikipedia, in late 2017 Gerbic toured Europe with the \"About Time Tour\" and spoke at many skeptical activist gatherings. During this tour, she was a guest on Bloomberg TV Bulgaria, and the interview was documented in an October 6 article, \"Can we trust Wikipedia?\" During the telecast, Gerbic said she was in Bulgaria to recruit, saying that \"One of the good things about Wikipedia is that everyone can change it, but that is also a problem.\" Gerbic explained that GSoW instructs its members regarding the skills needed to improve Wikipedia, and that most anyone can learn.\n\nGerbic was a featured speaker at CSICon in 2017 where she presented \"Beyond the Choir: The Guerrilla Skepticism on Wikipedia Project (GSoW)\" which focused on recruiting for the GSoW team.\n\nIn July 2018, \"Wired\" reported, \"the Guerrilla Skepticism on Wikipedia project has more than 120 volunteer editors from around the world, each of whom Gerbic has recruited and trained herself. They're collectively responsible for some of the site's most heavily trafficked articles on topics like scientology, UFOs, and vaccines.\"\n\n, the Guerrilla Skepticism on Wikipedia project had written or fully rewritten over 600 Wikipedia pages, which had collectively received over 30 million views.\n\nThe World Wikipedia project began in August 2012 after Gerbic was unable to find non-English editing groups to do what she had done with the English project. Gerbic began forming and training non-English editors. Beginning with the \"Lets Start with Jerry\" project, all teams were asked to translate the English Jerry Andrus Wikipedia page into as many languages as possible. Arabic, Dutch, Russian, Spanish, Swedish and Portuguese articles were completed under her guidance.\n\nGerbic attended the Skeptic's Toolbox in Eugene, Oregon in 2002. Ray Hyman, the leader of the Toolbox, advised her to start her own local confererence. In 2007 Steve Wheller, another skeptic who lived in a nearby city, messaged her on the JREF forum because of her profile. Together, they used Yahoo Groups to find other like minded skeptical activists and formed the Monterey County Skeptics (MCS).\n\nThe MCS participated in the \"There's Nothing in it\" by overdosing on many homeopathic tablets. To demonstrate the effects of homeopathy, Gerbic personally took 80 pellets (15 doses) of Boiron 30C Belladonna. In 2011, during SkeptiCal, Gerbic joined in with over 100 attendees to take an overdose (15 times recommended) of homeopathic \"caffea cruda\" which is used for sleepiness. On January 3, 2015 the Monterey County Skeptics had the first SkepticCamap in Northern California. The event was emceed by Mark Edward and was \"a day of free presentations on skepticism, critical thinking, science and related topics.\" Lectures included eight speakers, including Gerbic, whose presentation was reporting back on a 6 months long psychic sting. “We’re not curmudgeons,” Gerbic said. “We just want more facts when someone makes a claim.” A Monterey Herald reporter who attended the conference stated, \"SkeptiCamp Monterey 2015, [is] a gathering of people who choose to take just about everything with a grain of salt — and probably a whole tablespoon.\"\n\nThe MCS held its third annual \"SkeptiCamp Monterey\" in January 2017 and it was covered by the Monterey Herald. In the article Gerbic was quoted as saying: \"This is our first year that we’re really trying to grow. And it’s the first time we’re bringing a speaker here from farther away and bringing them to a bigger venue.\" She was referring to professional skeptic, author/speaker Benjamin Radford who is the author of “Bad Clowns” and who has investigated a variety of unexplained phenomena and written on a wide variety of topics of interest to skeptics. Speaking about the mission of people interested in scientific skepticism in general and the MCS in particular, Gerbic also said:\nGerbic manages Skeptic Action, a Facebook, Twitter, and Google+ activist organization with the goal of reviewing one topical site per day on Web of Trust and RbutR. From 2010 to 2014, Gerbic was a member of the Independent Investigations Group. During 2013, Gerbic served as a Steering member and participated in several investigations for their then $50,000 (now $100,000) paranormal challenge. Gerbic was the main photographer for the Nick Nelson and Phillip Lee preliminary tests.\n\nGerbic and Edward were hired by Discovery Channel in 2011 to film a recreation of the Scole Séance experiences, during \"Weird or What?\" episode \"Life After Death\". Edward performed the séance in the dark while Gerbic, dressed in black, would manipulate various sounds and lights in the room to fool the participants during filming.\n\nGerbic focuses much of her skeptical activism on \"clairvoyant mediums,\" who she calls \"Grief Vampires\" because they prey on desperate families that would do anything to talk to their loved ones or pay anything to find their missing child.\n\nIn an online 2018 Skeptical Inquirer article, Gerbic summarizes common techniques which psychics use to achieve their effects, ranging from taking advantage of how the human brain processes information, to using cold reading and hot reading techniques.\n\nIn 2012, Gerbic and Edward organized a protest against Sylvia Browne when she appeared at the Imperial Palace Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas on July 13 of that year. Joined by Benjamin Radford, Ross Blocher, Bob Blaskiewitz, Jay Diamond, and others, the group stood outside the venue and handed out leaflets describing cold reading techniques and describing some of so-called psychic predictions Browne has made over the years that have been proven to be incorrect.\n\nIn 2014, Gerbic organized a sting on well-known psychic Chip Coffey which she code-named \"Operation Bumblebee\". She and two associates created false identities and false dead relatives, complete with backstories and pictures (of real, still living people), and attended a Coffey event in San Jose. Mingling with attendees before the show started, the three talked as much as they could about their supposedly dead relatives, hoping that some of Coffey's assistants might overhear. During the show, Coffey did indeed do readings on each of the three, claiming to be in contact with each of the supposedly dead relatives, confidently relating details about completely made up people, including some of what Gerbic and her associates had talked about before the show.\n\nIn 2015, Gerbic enlisted Heather Henderson to help in a followup to the Chip Coffey sting. Gerbic's team, without Henderson's participation, created several interconnected fake Facebook accounts, several of which friended various well-known psychics. Then Henderson, posing as the bereaved mother of a deceased 13-year old, would get a private reading from Braun. Because Henderson knew none of the details of \"her\" Facebook page, this would be a double-blind test in that she would not be able to give Braun any feedback, inadvertent or otherwise, on his accuracy. With permission to record, Henderson had an hour reading with Braun, who claimed to be in communication with her non-existent sons, husband and family. \"Operation Ice Cream Cone\", as Gerbic calls it, did not establish that Braun used any information from the fake Facebook pages, but every statement that he made to Henderson was incorrect.\nFull audio of the reading is available on YouTube.\n\nIn 2015, up-and-coming psychic Tyler Henry came to Gerbic's attention. Henry had a new television show on the E! Network, and Gerbic noticed that a Google search on the show or Henry resulted in a return of mostly favorable, uncritical articles. In what she called \"Operation Tater Tot\", Gerbic enlisted well-known skeptical activists to write about Henry, and provide an alternate point of view that would balance the uncritical perception being presented by the media services. The activists who published on Henry as part of this operation included Sharon Hill, Hemant Mehta, Jerry Coyne, Caleb Lack, Stephen Propatier, and David Gorski. Beginning in 2016, Gerbic wrote a series of articles concerning Henry, which were published by \"Skeptical Inquirer\":\n\nIn December 2016, Nicki Swift released a video, \"Proof That Hollywood Medium Is Totally Fake\", where she provides a point-by-point analysis of Tyler Henry's \"psychic readings\". Swift details how his con works, and references Gerbic's \"Skeptical Inquirer\" analysis of Henry: \"According to Susan Gerbic of the Skeptical Inquirer, by telling clients he's communicating with their [dead] loved ones, he's exploiting their pain as a 'grief vampire'.\"\n\nConference attendance gets much attention on Gerbic's bi-weekly segments on the Skeptic Society's \"Skepticality\" podcast. She stresses how important it is for skeptics to attend, and if there aren't conferences nearby, then to create a conference, be it a SkeptiCamp or a Skeptics in the Pub event. She insists that conference attendance is the first step towards activism. \"What I do know is that the one-on-one contact recharges our batteries. People like Harriet A. Hall (Skepdoc), Lindsay Beyerstein (co-host of \"Point of Inquiry\"), and myself came from CSI’s Skeptic's Toolbox. We weren't primarily authors or lecturers, just people with a passion for the skeptical movement who decided it was our turn to step up. You can’t buy that fire, but sometimes you might have to kick the embers to keep us (and others) out there fighting what seems to be an insurmountable world of woo. Conferences are essential.\"\nIn her November 2014 article for Skeptical Inquirer about the Skeptic's Toolbox she describes the 4-day conference held in Eugene, Oregon each August. She again restates the importance of conference attendance, stating \"we know our best asset is our people.\"\n\nIn October 2015, Gerbic conducted a series of workshops in Australia, culminating with her appearance as a guest speaker at the Australian Skeptics' Convention.\n\nIn 2016 and 2017, to promote both CSICon events, Gerbic interviewed many of the scheduled speakers in advance of the conferences. These interviews, which were published by the Center for Inquiry, included Bob Novella, Maria Konnikova, Sheldon W. Helms, Evan Bernstein, Kavin Senapathy, James Alcock, Robert Brotherton, Richard Saunders, Kevin Folta, Natalie Newell (producer/director of \"Science Moms\"), Kenny Biddle, Taner Edis, Britt Hermes, Mark Edward, Craig Foster, Harriet Hall, and conference MC George Hrab.\n\n\nGerbic's father died of cancer in 1989. In 2013, she announced she had breast cancer. Gerbic completed twenty weeks of chemotherapy for stage II cancer in December 2013 and completed 33 radiation treatments in March 2014.\n\nGerbic's skeptical activism work has drawn criticism from alternative medicine and paranormal claim proponents.\n\nIn an interview with Tim Farley about the Wikipedia controversy with Deepak Chopra and Rupert Sheldrake, Gerbic states that she understands the frustration that public figures must have over articles that change without their control, but that accusations of canvasing to recruit and train editors in a particular area have typically resulted from misinterpreting Wikipedia rules. \"Wikipedia needs people to edit...\" and \"pseudoscience\" must be well substantiated before it can be added to an article. Skeptics also have edits removed when not well cited. Wikipedia is too important to be vandalized... it is too important for us to ignore.\"\n\nIn February, 2015, Daniel Loxton writing for \"Skeptic\" magazine in an article titled \"Considering a Complaint About Skeptical Tactics\", examined the controversy regarding Gerbic's various sting operations, chronicling the opinions of pseudoscience advocates as well as people in the skeptical movement. This was the first of a series of articles in which Loxton examined the larger questions brought to the forefront by Gerbic's undercover sting activities, namely: \"Should false claims in the paranormal realm be identified and the truth about them revealed? And, if so, what methods may be justifiably used to accomplish that end?\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12802008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12802008", "title": "Talat Masood", "text": "Talat Masood\n\nLieutenant-General Talat Masood (Urdu: طلعت مسعُود); , is a retired three-star rank army general, a political commentator, and a mechanical engineer.\n\nHis career in the military spent in the Pakistan Army Corps of EME as an engineering officer and also served as the Federal Secretary at the Ministry of Defence Production of Government of Pakistan. He is noted for his analysis on the global national security, economic stability, and often consults on politics on the national and international media networks.\n\nTalat Masood joined the Pakistan Military Academy, and was educated at the Military College of Engineering where he graduated with a B.S. in mechanical engineering.\n\nIn 1951, he gained commission in the Corps of EME, where his career in the army is mostly spent. In 1951–54, 2nd-Lt. Masood was one of the few army officers who were sent to the United Kingdom to attend the Loughborough University where he did the post-graduate studies. He gained M.S. in mechanical engineering from the Loughborough University and joined the Pakistan Ordnance Factories for evaluation of fire arms and weapons accuracy.\n\nHe attended the Command and Staff College in Quetta where he qualified as a psc, and later went attended the National Defence University (NDU) where he gained MSc in defence studies.\n\nHe participated in the conflicts and wars with India in 1965 and in 1971, but his career mostly spent in the local defense production. About the aerial operations by PAF, Masood is of the view that: \"The mobility, even the survivability of land forces depended to a large extent on air cover, so does the naval security. Superior air power is thus vital for any military engagement.\"\n\nIn 1970s, he served as the chairman of the Heavy Industries Taxila (HIT), where he was involved in the design and development of the various military vehicles and the technology evaluation of the main battle tanks.\n\nIn 1980s, he was appointed as chairman of the Pakistan Ordnance Factories (POF), where he is credited of bringing the fire-arm manufacturing organization to its peak of efficiency especially the manufacturing of the chemical explosives. In 1988-89, he was involved in the technology transfer of the Mirage III at the Pakistan Aeronautical Complex, and witnessed the induction of the aircraft to the UAE Air Force.\n\nIn 1988, Lt-Gen. Masood joined the Benazir administration when he appointed as the secretary of defense production, which he served until he retired from his military service with the army in 1990.\n\nAfter his retirement in 1990, Masood became a political consultant to several important U.S. think tanks and technology firms.\n\nHe writes and opined regularly on political and security issues in English-language newspapers in Pakistan and foreign political correspondents. In November–December 1997, he was appointed as visiting fellow at the Stimson Center in Washington DC in the United States where his research topic included the discussion and rational on \"nuclear weapons issues in the subcontinent.\"\n\nSince 2013, Masood is on Council of Pugwash Conferences on World Affairs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2773784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2773784", "title": "Tata family", "text": "Tata family\n\nThe Tata family is a prominent Indian business family, based in the city of Mumbai. The parent company is Tata Sons, which is the main holding company of the Tata Group, and about 65% of stock in these companies is owned by Tata charitable trusts, mainly the Ratan Tata Trust and the Dorab Tata Trust. Approximately 18 percent of shares are held by the Pallonji Mistry family, and the rest by various Tata Sons. The Tatas are a Parsi family who originally came to Mumbai from Navsari in the state of Gujarat, by way of Persia. The founder of the family’s fortunes was Jamsetji Tata. The Tatas are the original founders of the Tata Sons and Tata Group. \n\nThe Tata family is related to the prominent Petit baronets, a Parsi family, through Sylla Tata, who married Sir Dinshaw Maneckji Petit, 3rd Baronet.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48168780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48168780", "title": "Thomas Hamilton Blanck", "text": "Thomas Hamilton Blanck\n\nThomas Hamilton Blanck (October 28, 1870 - March 21, 1895) was an Old West criminal operating in the Pacific Northwest between 1891 and his death in 1895 following a prison break. He was also known as \"Crazy Mike.\"\n\nIn October, 1894, Blanck attempted to rob the \"Mug Saloon,\" in Seattle, Washington, an event in which a bartender, Charles Birdwell, was killed. A law enforcement officer was also grazed in the neck during the incident. A Seattle detective, named Cudihee, arrested a suspect a few days after the Birdwell killing, who gave his name as Tom Blanck. Blanck reportedly then confessed to many additional crimes:\n\nBlank admitted to having committed an 1890 burglary in Fairhaven, Washington, in which he had been pursued by a policeman, Peter Brugh. Blanck claims he shot Brugh twice while making good his escape. Blanck had also shot and killed a friend during a poker game that year, in Weiser, Idaho.\n\nBlanck claimed that in January, 1891, he and a partner robbed a stage coach in Nelson, British Columbia. Blanck stated that they had murdered the driver, while stealing $4500. Blanck further stated that in February, 1891, he had committed a burglary in Kalama, Washington, for which he was arrested, but from which he had subsequently escaped from jail.\n\nOn April 10, 1894, Blanck killed officer John Flynn in Helena, Montana. That same month Blanck stated he had killed a Northern Pacific agent, William Ogle, in Belgrade, Montana.\n\nBlanck finished his confessions by admitting to the more recent crimes for which he was responsible. He acknowledged the robbery of several people in the barroom of the Broadwater Hotel in Helena, Montana (which had occurred August 18, 1894) committed by him; while the following month, in Meaderville, Montana, he had shot and killed a bartender named Steve Gross, and killed the deputy sheriff who was pursuing him for that crime. (On September 20, 1894, in the Meeker Station railroad crossing near Puyallup, Washington, a Constable William Jeffery had come across two men running from a boxcar, and one of the men dropped a bundle, subsequently found to contain a gun. While the officer asked the men if they could identify the pistol, one of the men said yes and claimed his initials were on it. While the office checked the gun for the marks, the man—Blanck—shot and killed him with a hidden pistol. Following this, the two men robbed a farmer of his horse and wagon and fled the scene.)\n\nThe following day, Deputy Sheriffs Harry Moore and John Ball investigated a suspicious man seen near McMillian, Washington. When the officers ordered the stranger to halt, he shot at and wounded Moore in the breast and escaped. On September 22, after buying a large amount of provisions, a Frank Murphy, age 16, was arrested in South Prairie, Washington because he fit the description of the accomplice of the man who had killed Officer Jeffrey. After being arrested, Murphy admitted he had been with \"Hamilton\" (Blanck's alias), but claimed that they had parted company.\n\nAfter being tried and sentenced to hang for the killing of Birdwell, Blanck used a fake gun made of wood to overwhelm night jailer Jeremiah Yerbury and escaped with the jailer's gun and jail keys on March 17, 1895. Besides a con man named Frank Hart who helped Blanck, several other convicts also escaped with Blanck: Servius Rutten (convicted murderer); William Holmes (murderer); C.W. Brown (counterfeiter); R.H. Ford (burglar); Charles William (burglar); and William Cosgrove (petty larceny).\n\nCosgrove and Rutten were quickly recaptured on March 18, 1895. Holmes was caught on March 21. Later that same day, in Orillia, Washington, Blanck obtained food from James Nelson. Deputy Sherriffs John Crow and John Shepich were notified and pursued Blanck near Kent, Washington. A Charles Newell then joined Crow and Shepich, creating a three man posse. Finding himself cornered, Blanck fired and wounded Shepich. Blanck was ordered to come out of the brush and was shot dead when the posse purportedly thought he had a second gun. The jailer's stolen pistol and keys were found on Blanck's body.\n\nHart wasn't re-captured until May 4, 1908 (in Seattle).\n\n"}
{"id": "14735729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14735729", "title": "Thomas Sleeper", "text": "Thomas Sleeper\n\nThomas M. Sleeper (born February 16, 1956) is a modern American composer and conductor. His music has been described as 'hauntingly mysterious' and 'richly lyrical'. He was the Director of Orchestral Activities and Conductor of the University of Miami Frost Symphony Orchestra until his retirement in 2018. He is also the director of the Florida Youth Orchestra.\n\nSleeper was born in Wagoner, Oklahoma and is a member of the Cherokee Nation. He received his Bachelor of Music at the University of Texas, and subsequently received his Master of Music at Southern Methodist University, where he studied under Daryl F. Rauscher of the Dallas Symphony Orchestra, and James Rives-Jones. From 1975 -1978, while in Austin, Sleeper was active with an Avant-gard group of composer/performers called \"Fermata\". As a member of \"Fermata\" he worked with composers such as Jerry Willingham, Jerry Hunt and Robert Xavier Rodriguez. At 22 years of age Sleeper was appointed Associate Conductor of the Dallas Civic Symphony. Following his conducting stint with the Dallas Civic Symphony, Sleeper began to compose many pieces of music including, but not limited to, operas, concerti, symphonies, solo and chamber music.\n\nHe is a frequent guest conductor all over the world and has performed with ensembles such as the Central Philharmonic of China (where he gave the Chinese premiere of Mahler's Symphony No. 5 in 1992), Argentina's San Juan Symphony Orchestra, and Bulgaria's Ruse State Philharmonic. In addition, he was named the Artistic Advisor of the China-Wuhan Symphony in 1993 where he gave the Chinese premiere of Brahms' 2nd Piano Concerto with soloist Justin Blasdale. Sleeper is an advocate of new music, and has commissioned and conducted the premiers of works of composers including Roberto Sierra, Thomas Ludwig, Henry Brant, Carlos Surinach, Robert Xavier Rodriguez. He currently lives in Miami, Florida.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4261801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4261801", "title": "Tora Sudiro", "text": "Tora Sudiro\n\nTora Sudiro or his birth name Taura Danang Sudiro (born 10 May 1973) is an Indonesian actor and comedian. His popularity rose when he was one of some comedians who took part in the Trans TV comedy show Extravaganza and recently known as Indro in Warkop DKI Reborn Part 1 and Part 2. He has also appeared in Indonesian TV dramas, such as \"Dunia Tanpa Koma\" on 2006. \"Arisan!\", a film in which Sudiro starred, received an award at the 2004 Indonesia Film Festival (FFI) and became a widely screened film on the international gay film festival circuit. He also had appeared in some commercials.\n\nAfter divorce, Tora married Mieke Amalia on 19 December 2009 with both having two children each from previous marriages. On 21 March 2012, they got a daughter, Jenaka Mahila Sudiro means \"Funny and Pretty\" due to they met each other for the first time during a joint stunt on a comedy show in a television studio.\n"}
{"id": "23294255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23294255", "title": "Vaisey, Sheriff of Nottingham", "text": "Vaisey, Sheriff of Nottingham\n\nThe Sheriff of Nottingham is the main antagonist of the 2006 BBC television series, \"Robin Hood\". Keith Allen's portrayal was described by \"The Hollywood Reporter\" as \"very camp in the Alan Rickman tradition of sardonic villains,\" referring to Rickman's role as the Sheriff in the 1991 film \"\". Sarcastic and with a dark sense of humour, he has many catch phrases, including \"La di da di da!\" and \"A clue: no\" (also the title of the first season finale). He also has an explosive temper, usually triggered by Robin's interference or the repeated failures of Guy of Gisbourne and other minions. He has many insults for his servants when they fail him, including \"blithering oafs\", \"incompetent fools\" and \"idiotic buffoons\".\n\nVaisey became the Sheriff a few years before Robin's return to England, taking over from Marian's father Edward. He has used the position to become the leading figure in the 'Black Knights', a group conspiring to overthrow King Richard in favour of Prince John. As a plot device to explain why Robin does not kill the Sheriff, John insures the latter's life by promising to destroy Nottingham should he be killed. In \"Sisterhood,\" the Sheriff's sister Davina is introduced, with whom he displays previously unseen affection. Davina dies in his arms after an altercation with Robin, for which the Sheriff vows revenge.\n\nKeith Allen lost one of his teeth while filming a fight sequence for the show. This was written into the script, with the Sheriff losing a tooth in the last episode of Series 1. He takes teeth from skulls and places them in the gap in his teeth as a recurring gag in the second series. In the third series, Prince John plays the Sheriff off against Gisbourne until in \"Do You Love Me?\" they finally fight to the death and the Sheriff is killed by Gisbourne, or so Gisbourne thinks - it is shown at the end of the episode that the Sheriff survived; as his apparently dead body is carted away, his fingers twitch. Vaisey returns to Nottingham after Isabella loses it to Robin Hood and the people. He is assisted by Blamire, Isabella's second-in-command, and it is later revealed that he has formed an alliance with Isabella. In a deadly confrontation with Robin and Gisborne, he ends up killing Gisborne. He is finally killed by a dying Robin (who has been poisoned by Isabella). who fires a burning arrow into the barrels of byzantine fire stored in the castle. Vaisey just has enough time to notice the barrels before the entire castle is blown up - and him, Isabella and their remaining men along with it.\n"}
{"id": "21937392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21937392", "title": "William Price (footballer)", "text": "William Price (footballer)\n\nWilliam John Price (4 December 1903 – 22 June 1987) was an English professional footballer, who was born in India. An inside left, he played for Brentford, Fulham, Port Vale, and England amateurs. His most significant spell was with Fulham from 1929 to 1937, who he helped to win the Third Division South title in 1931–32.\n\nPrice played for the Coldstream Guards and the 10th Royal Hussars. He began his professional career at Isthmian League side Woking Town and joined Third Division South side Brentford in 1928, making his first professional appearance. He played for Fulham between 1928 and 1937, making 204 appearances in all competitions for the club and scoring 53 goals. The \"Cottagers\" won promotion out of the Third Division South in 1931–32, and remained in the Second Division until World War II.\n\nHe joined Port Vale in May 1937. He scored two goals in 13 Third Division North games in the 1937–38 season, but had his contract at The Old Recreation Ground cancelled by mutual consent in November 1937 as he wished to travel south to work as a coach. Price became a coach at Wimbledon upon leaving Port Vale. He later moved on to become the coach of Yiewsley, before his appointment as assistant secretary of Fulham.\n\nWhile with Woking, Price won three England Amateur international caps. In 1929, he was invited to a trial with the full England side and was included in the Football Association XI for a tour of South Africa and Rhodesia the same year.\n\nSource:\n\n"}
{"id": "47733760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47733760", "title": "William Rudolph Kanne", "text": "William Rudolph Kanne\n\nWilliam Rudolph Kanne, also known as W. Rudolph Kanne (7 July 1913 – 24 October 1985), was a physicist, inventor and pioneer in the field of gas flow through ionization detectors, a member of the group responsible for the first self-sustained nuclear chain fission reaction at Staggs Field in Chicago, and participated in the Manhattan Project at the Chicago, Oak Ridge and Hanford sites.\n\nIn 1913, Kanne was born in Baltimore, Maryland to William G. and Adele Bianka Kanne née Thienemann. His father was born in Germany and his mother was born in Maryland.\n\nIn 1937, he married Elizabeth Mueller. The couple moved to Madison, Wisconsin to accept positions at the University of Wisconsin. According to the 1940 U.S. Census, Kanne worked as a physics instructor for a state university and his wife Elizabeth worked as a substitute teacher at a graduate school in Madison, Wisconsin. In 1931, Elizabeth \"Lib\" Mueller graduated at the top of her class from Goucher College in Towson, Maryland and then attended Stanford University where she earned a Masters degree in Bacteriology.\n\nKanne died at home of intestinal cancer in 1985 at Los Gatos, California. Kanne was buried at Loudon Park Cemetery in Baltimore, Maryland.\n\nIn 1937, Kanne earned a Ph.D. in physics from Johns Hopkins University.\n\nWith Ph.D. in hand, Kanne landed a position as a physics instructor at the University of Wisconsin. From 1940 to 1944, he served at the Illinois Institute of Technology as assistant professor in physics. In 1942, Kanne secured a position with the Metallurgical Laboratory at the University of Chicago. He became part of the select group that built and operated the Chicago Pile 1 with Enrico Fermi and Leo Szilard, and on 2 December 1942 achieved the first sustained nuclear chain reaction. From Chicago Kanne went to Oak Ridge, Tennessee to work at the Clinton Laboratory. Next he was transferred to work for DuPont at the Hanford Works in the state of Washington.\n\nIn 1946, Kanne was offered a staff position with the General Electric Research Laboratory in Schenectady, New York. Next he was transferred to the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory in Niskayuna, New York. General Electric had established the facility for the design and development of the U.S. Navy's naval reactor program. Kanne was appointed as supervisor in the experimental nuclear physics section. He became manager of the project physics and advanced development group.\n\nIn 1958, Kanne moved to San Jose, California to work at GE's Atomic Power Equipment Department as manager and then the engineering physics, core and fuel engineering department. He returned to Schenectady to become the group liaison scientist at the GE Research and Development Center. In 1973, Kanne retired from General Electric.\n\n\nKanne was an inventor and the Kanne chamber, patented in 1952, may be his most notable invention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5629309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5629309", "title": "Yao Defen", "text": "Yao Defen\n\nYao Defen () of China, (July 15, 1972 – November 13, 2012) was the tallest living woman, as recognized by Guinness World Records. She stood at 234 centimetres (7 ft 8 in) tall, weighed , and had size 23 (US) feet. Her gigantism was due to a tumor in her pituitary gland.\n\nYao Defen was born to poor farmers in the town of Liuan in the Anhui province of Shucheng County. At birth she weighed . When she was eleven years old she was about 180 centimetres (6 ft 2 in) tall. She was 206 centimetres (6 ft 9 in) tall by the age of fifteen years.\n\nThe story of this \"woman giant\" began to spread rapidly after she went to see a doctor at the age of fifteen years for an illness. Medical doctors (who also saw her after years) properly diagnosed the illness but decided not to cure her, because her family did not have the 4000 yuan for the surgery. After that, many companies attempted to train her to be a sports star. The plans were abandoned, however, because Yao was too weak. Because she was illiterate, since 1992 Defen earned a living by traveling with her father and performing.\n\nYao's giant stature was caused by a condition called acromegaly, wherein a large tumor in the pituitary gland of the brain releases too much growth hormone and causes excessive growth. Around 2002 a hospital in Guangzhou Province removed the tumor. In 2009, the TLC cable TV network devoted a whole night's show to her. She fell in her home and had internal bleeding of the brain. She recovered and felt some happiness after a visit from China's tallest man, Zhang Juncai.\n\nA British television program filmed a documentary on her and helped raise money so she could get proper medical care. Two leading doctors in acromegaly agreed to help Yao. In that hospital, her growth hormone was greatly slowed down, although it remained a problem. Upon her return home to her mother and brother, she was able to walk with crutches, unassisted by others, and was given a six-month supply of medicines and supplements in hopes of improving her condition enough to undergo surgery.\n\nYao died on November 13, 2012 at the age of 40 from an unspecified ailment.\n\n\n"}
