{"id": "21495210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21495210", "title": "1995 Monaco Grand Prix Formula Three", "text": "1995 Monaco Grand Prix Formula Three\n\nResults from the 1995 Monaco Grand Prix Formula Three held at Monte Carlo on May 27, 1995, in the Circuit de Monaco.\n"}
{"id": "45254832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45254832", "title": "2005 in Sierra Leone", "text": "2005 in Sierra Leone\n\nThe following list is of events that happened during 2005 in Sierra Leone.\nSierra Leone, a country in West Africa, has a special significance in the history of the transatlantic slave trade as the departure point for thousands of west African captives. The capital, Freetown, was founded as a home for repatriated former slaves in 1787.\nBut the country's modern history has been overshadowed by a brutal civil war that ended in 2002 with the help of Britain, the former colonial power, and a large United Nations peacekeeping mission.\nSierra Leone has experienced substantial economic growth in recent years, although the ruinous effects of the civil war continue to be felt.\nThe country is also rich in diamonds and other minerals. The trade in illicit gems, known as \"blood diamonds\" for their role in funding conflicts, perpetuated the civil war. The government has sought to crack down on the trade.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47745114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47745114", "title": "2015 Fotokol attack", "text": "2015 Fotokol attack\n\nThe 2015 Fotokol attack occurred on 4 and 5 February 2015 when Boko Haram militants reportedly killed at least 91 people by shooting and burning, and injured over 500 in Fotokol, Cameroon. The militants also torched mosques and churches of the town.\n"}
{"id": "2109654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2109654", "title": "Africa Rice Center", "text": "Africa Rice Center\n\nThe Africa Rice Center (AfricaRice), formerly known as the West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA), is a pan-African intergovernmental association and a CGIAR Research organization, currently headquartered in Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire. AfricaRice is an agricultural research center that was constituted in 1971 by 11 West African countries. Presently the Center counts 26 African member states. Since 1986, AfricaRice has been one of the 15 specialized research centers of CGIAR.\n\nThe center runs regional research stations in Saint-Louis, Senegal, in Ibadan, Nigeria and country offices in Cotonou, Benin and in Antananarivo, Madagascar.\n\nAfricaRice aims to contribute to poverty alleviation and food security in Africa through research for development. The center has therefore close links to agricultural research organizations in the African member states, to agricultural universities and research institutes in Europe, Japan and the United States, and to the development sector, which include Non Governmental Organizations, farmers organizations and donors. AfricaRice, being part of the CGIAR system, shares resources with several of the other CGIAR organizations, including the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in Los Baños, Philippines, and the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture in Ibadan, Nigeria. In the course of reforms at the CGIAR, AfricaRice developed together with IRRI and International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) the Global Rice Science Partnership (GRiSP), which sets a global strategic research agenda for rice.\n\nOne of the major tasks of AfricaRice is the development and introduction of new rice seed varieties that are suitable for African conditions. NERICA, which stands for \"New Rice for Africa\", is two families of interspecific cultivars of African (\"Oryza glaberrima\") and Asian (\"Oryza sativa\") rice species, that was developed to improve the yields of African farmers. For his work on NERICA, Dr Monty Jones from Sierra Leone was awarded the World Food Prize in 2004 becoming the first African to win this award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6333212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6333212", "title": "African independence movements", "text": "African independence movements\n\nThe African Independence Movements took place in the 20th century, when a wave of struggles for independence in European-ruled African territories were witnessed.\n\nNotable militant independence movements took place:\n\nFor a list of African nations achieving independence, see Decolonisation of Africa.\n\nBritish-ruled Kenya was the place of a rebellion from 1952 to 1960, an insurgency by Kenyan rebels against the British colonialist rule. The core of the rebellion was formed by members of the Kikuyu ethnic group, along with smaller numbers of Embu and Meru.\n\nMany Algerians had fought as French soldiers during the First World War. Thus Muslim Algerians felt all the more unfair that their votes were not equal to the other Algerians especially after 1947 when the Algerian Assembly was created. This assembly was composed of 120 members. Muslim Algerians who represented about 9 million people could designate 50% of the Assembly members while 900,000 non-Muslim Algerians could designate the other half. Moreover, a massacre occurred in Sétif May 8, 1945. It opposed Algerians who were demonstrating for their national claim to the French Army. After skirmishes with police, Algerians killed about 100 ethnic French. The French army retaliated harshly. Thousands of Algerians probably died. It triggered a radicalisation of Algerian nationalists and it can be considered the beginning of the Algerian War.\n\nIn 1956, about 512,001 French soldiers were in Algeria. No resolution was imaginable in the short term. An overwhelming majority of French politicians were opposed to the idea of independence while independence was gaining ground in Muslim Algerians' mind. France was mired and the Fourth Republic collapsed on this issue. In 1958, Charles de Gaulle's return to power was supposed to bring back Algeria in the bosom of France as thought French generals in Algeria. But pragmatism impelled De Gaulle to consent independence in 1962 after an aborted military coup in Algeria.\n\nPortugal built a five-century-long global empire. Portuguese overseas expansion began in the 15th century, thanks to several factors that gave the small coastal nation an advantage over its larger European neighbours. First, in the 14th century, Portuguese shipbuilders invented several new techniques that made sailing in the stormy Atlantic Ocean more practical. They combined elements of different types of ships to construct stronger, roomier and more manoeuvrable caravels. They also took advantage of more reliable compasses for navigation, and benefited from the school for navigation created by Prince Henry the Navigator (1394–1460) at Sagres in 1419. Starting with voyages to Madeira and the Azores (islands in the Atlantic) in the first part of the 14th century, the Portuguese systematically extended their explorations as far as Japan by the 16th century. In the process, they established forts and settlements along the West and East African coasts. In the 16th through 18th centuries, the Portuguese lost their lead to other European nations, notably England and France, but played a major role in the slave trade to satisfy the demand for labour in Brazil and other American markets. By the beginning of the 19th century, Portugal controlled outposts at six locations in Africa. One was the Cape Verde Islands, located about 700 miles due west of Dakar, Senegal. Claimed for Portugal by Diogo Gomes about 1458, this archipelago of eight major islands was devoted to sugar cultivation using slaves taken from the African mainland. The Portuguese once had extensive claims on the West African coast—since they were the first Europeans to explore it systematically—but by 1800 they were left with only a few ports at the mouth of the Rio Geba in what is now known as the Guinea-Bissau. To the east, the Portuguese controlled the islands of São Tomé and Príncipe, located south of the mouth of the Niger River. Like the Cape Verde Islands, they were converted to sugar production in the early 16th century using slaves acquired on the mainland in the vicinity of the Congo River. By the end of the 19th century, Portuguese landowners had successfully introduced cocoa production using forced African labour. Further south, the Portuguese claimed both sides of the mouth of the Congo River, as well as the Atlantic coast as far south as the Rio Cunene. In practical terms, Portugal controlled port cities like those of Cabinda (north of the Congo River mouth), Ambriz (south of the Congo's mouth), Luanda and Benguela (on the Angolan coast) plus some river towns in the Angolan interior.\n\nThe last area claimed by Portugal in Africa was along the southeast coast on either side of the mouth of the Zambezi River. After reaching this area, known as the Swahili Coast, at the end of the 15th century, the Portuguese came to dominate most of it by the end of the 16th century. During the 17th century, they lost control of everything north of Cape Delgado to Arabs from Oman (who established the Sultanate of Zanzibar), leaving them with major ports at Mozambique, Quelimane, and Lourenço Marques, plus settlements along the Zambezi and other rivers.\n\nDespite these holdings, the Portuguese hold in Africa was problematic. The first cause was the small size of Portugal's population, coupled with the lack of popular support for overseas empire. Exploration and conquest began as an enterprise supported by the nobility, and Portuguese peasants rarely participated unless forced to do so. When the common people of Portugal did chose to emigrate, they were much more likely to head to Brazil and other territories than to Africa. To induce Europeans to move to its African holdings, the Portuguese government resorted to releasing \"degradados\"—convicted criminals—from prison in exchange for accepting what amounted to exile in Africa. Angola, in particular, gained a reputation as a Portuguese penal colony. Also, since the European population remained almost entirely male, the Portuguese birth rate was negligible, although plenty of \"Afro-Lusitanians\" were born to African mothers. As a result, the European population of Portugal's African settlements was never very large, and community leaders were just as likely to owe their loyalty to local African governments as they did to the distant Portuguese government.\n\nA second cause of weakness in Portuguese Africa was the effects of three centuries of Atlantic slave trade which had roots in the older African slave trade. Once the Atlantic triangular trade got underway, many Portuguese (including many Brazilian traders) in Africa found little incentive to engage in any other kind of profitable economic activity. The economies of Guinea, Angola and Mozambique became almost entirely devoted to the export of slaves to the New World (plus gold and ivory where they were available) while on the islands, slaves were used to grow sugar for export. Colonial authorities did nothing to stop the slave trade, which had sympathisers even among the several native African tribes, and many became wealthy by supporting it, while the traders themselves generated huge profits with which they secured allies in Africa and Portugal.\n\nAlthough anti-slavery efforts became organised in Europe in the 18th century, the slave trade only came to an end in the early 19th century, thanks in large part to English efforts to block shipping to the French during the Napoleonic Wars. Portugal was one of the first countries in the world to outlaw slavery, and did it so in mainland Portugal during the 18th century. The Portuguese government ended colonial slavery in stages with a final decree in 1858 that outlawed slavery in the overseas empire. The gradual pace of abolition was due to the strength of pro-slavery forces in Portuguese politics, Brazil and in Africa, they interfered with colonial administrators who challenged long-established and powerful commercial interests.\n\nThe Napoleonic Wars added a new force to the Portuguese political scene—republicanism—introduced as an alternative to the monarchy by French troops in 1807. The French invasion induced the Portuguese royal family to make the controversial decision to flee to Brazil (on English ships), from where they ruled until 1821. By the time King João VI returned to Lisbon, he faced a nobility divided in their support for him personally, plus a middle class that wanted a constitutional monarchy. During Joao VI's reign (1821–1826) and that of his successors—Peter IV (1826–1831), Maria (1833–1853), Peter V (1853–1861), Louis I (1861–1889), and Carlos (1889–1908)—there was a civil war that lasted from 1826 to 1834, a long period characterised by what one author called \"ministerial instability and chronic insurrection\" from 1834 to 1853, and finally the end of the monarchy when both Carlos and his heir were assassinated on February 1, 1908. Under those circumstances, colonial officials appointed by governments in Lisbon were more concerned with politics at home than with administering their African territories.\n\nAs it did everywhere else, the Industrial Revolution stimulated change in Portuguese Africa. It created a demand for tropical raw materials like vegetable oils, cotton, cocoa and rubber, and it also created a need for markets to purchase the expanded quantity of goods issuing from factories. In Portugal's case, most of the factories were located in England, which had had a special relationship with Portugal ever since Philippa, the daughter of England's John of Gaunt, married John of Avis, the founder of the Portuguese second dynasty. Prodded by Napoleon's invasion and English support for the royal family's escape to Brazil, King João and his successors eliminated tariffs, ended trade monopolies and generally opened the way for British merchants to become dominant in the Portuguese empire. At times, that caused friction, such as when both British and Portuguese explorers claimed the Shire Highlands (located in modern Malawi), but for the most part Great Britain supported the Portuguese position in exchange for incorporating Portugal's holdings into the British economic sphere.\n\nWith neither a large European population nor African wage earners, the Portuguese colonies offered poor markets for manufactured goods from the private sector. Consequently, industrialisation arrived in the form of government programs designed to improve internal communications and increase the number of European settlers. During the late 1830s, the government headed by Marquis Sá da Bandeira tried to encourage Portuguese farmers to migrate to Angola, with little success. Between 1845 and 1900, the European population of Angola rose from 1,832 to only about 9,000. European migration to Mozambique showed slightly better results—about 11,000 in 1911—but many were British from South Africa rather than Portuguese. The other major force for change was the rivalries that developed between European nations in the century between the end of the Napoleonic Wars and the outbreak of World War I. Forbidden from fighting each other by the \"balance of power\" established by the Treaty of Vienna, they competed in other ways including scientific discoveries, athletic competitions, exploration and proxy wars. Although not a major power anymore, Portugal participated in the competition, especially by sending out explorers to solidify their claim to all of the land between Angola and Mozambique. That bought them into conflict with men like Cecil Rhodes, whose own vision of an empire from \"Cape to Cairo\" required that the British gain control over the same land (see British Ultimatum).\n\nEuropean rivalries appeared most often as commercial competition, and in 19th century Africa, that included the right to move goods by steamboat along rivers. The British had a head start thanks to their early adoption of steam technology and their supremacy on the high seas. They became the strongest proponents of the principle of \"free trade\" which prohibited countries from creating legal barriers to another country's merchants. Occasionally, Portuguese leaders resisted, but the British alliance provided sufficient benefits to convince various administrations to go along (although they faced revolts at home and in their colonies).\n\nIt was Portugal's claim to the land on either side of the mouth of the Congo River that triggered the events leading up to the Congress of Berlin. That claim, which dated from Diogo Cão's voyage in 1484, gave Portugal places from which naval patrols could control access to Africa's largest river system. The British eyed this arrangement with suspicion for years, but paid tariffs (like everyone else) for the right to trade there, mostly for slaves.\n\nAfter the abolition of slavery got underway, the Portuguese dragged their heels, so in 1839 the British government declared its right to inspect Portuguese ships for evidence of slave trading with or without Portuguese consent. That stirred the Portuguese to action, and in a subsequent series of agreements made in the 1840s, the British acquired the right to land their ships to land where no Portuguese authorities were present. When the Portuguese refused to renew the agreement in 1853, the British ceased paying tariffs at the ports on either side of the Congo River mouth, claiming that Portugal's claim had expired because they had left the area unoccupied for too long. Portugal reoccupied the ports of Cabinda and Ambriz in 1855, and relations with Great Britain improved after that. The dispute set a precedent, however, that effective occupation was a prerequisite for recognition of colonial claims. The question continued to reappear until 1885 when it was enshrined in the agreements that emanated from the Congress of Berlin.\n\nThe final straw was the Anglo-Portuguese Treaty signed on February 26, 1884. It granted exclusive navigation rights on the Congo River to Britain in exchange for British guarantees of Portugal's control of the coast at the mouth of the Congo River. Most significantly, it prevented the French from taking advantage of treaties signed by one of its explorers (Savorgnan de Brazza) with Africans living along the north side of the Congo River. International protests forced the two countries to abandon the treaty in June 1884, and Bismarck used the controversy to call the Congress of Berlin later that year.\n\nThe Portuguese were the first Europeans to claim territory in sub-Saharan Africa, and their example inspired imitation from other European powers. For the British, the Portuguese were acceptable proxies in the competition with France, Russia and Germany for world domination. For Portuguese governments, the British alliance gave them influence that they could not command themselves, while the idea of a Portuguese empire offered something with which to distract domestic opponents from the struggles initiated by the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nThe issues that were raised by Portugal's claims in Africa and the efforts of other countries to whittle them down became the fundamental issues of the Congress of Berlin. In the end, the Congress settled more than the future of Portugal's African holdings—it also set the rules for any European government which wished to establish an empire in Africa.\n\nIn the 1950s, after World War II, several African territories became independent from their European rulers, but the oldest Europe-ruled territories, those ruled by Portugal, were rebranded \"Overseas Provinces\" from the former designation as Portuguese colonies. This was a firm effort of Portugal's authorities to preserve its old African possessions abroad and refuse any claims of independence. This was followed by a wave of strong economic and social developments in all Portuguese Africa, in particular the overseas provinces of Angola and Mozambique.\n\nBy the 1960s, several organisations were founded to support independence's claims of the Portuguese overseas provinces in Africa. They were mostly entirely based and supported from outside Portugal's territories. Headquartered and managed in countries like Senegal, Tanzania, Algeria, Guinea and Ethiopia, these guerrilla movements sought weapons, financing and political support in Eastern Bloc's communist states and the People's Republic of China. A Cold War conflict in Portuguese Africa was about to start. Marxist-Leninist and Maoist ideologies, backed by countries like the Soviet Union and People's Republic of China were behind the nationalist guerrilla movements created to attack Portuguese possessions and claim independence. The USA and other countries, in order to counter communist growing influence in the region also started to support some nationalist guerrillas in their fight against Portugal. The series of guerrilla wars involving Portugal and several armed nationalist groups from Africa in its overseas provinces of Angola, Guinea, and Mozambique, become known as the Portuguese Colonial War (\"Guerra Colonial\" or \"Guerra do Ultramar\").\n\nIn Portuguese Angola, the rebellion of the ZSN was taken up by the União das Populações de Angola (UPA), which changed its name to the National Liberation Front of Angola (FNLA) in 1962. On February 4, 1961, the People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) took credit for the attack on the prison of Luanda, where seven policemen were killed. On March 15, 1961, the UPA, in a tribal attack, started the massacre of white populations and black workers born in other regions of Angola. This region would be retaken by large military operations that, however, would not stop the spread of the guerrilla actions to other regions of Angola, such as Cabinda, the east, the southeast and the central plateaus.\n\nIn Portuguese Guinea, the Marxist African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde (PAIGC) started fighting in January 1963. Its guerrilla fighters attacked the Portuguese headquarters in Tite, located to the south of Bissau, the capital, near the Corubal river . Similar actions quickly spread across the entire colony, requiring a strong response from the Portuguese forces.\n\nThe war in Guinea placed face to face Amílcar Cabral, the leader of PAIGC, and António de Spínola, the Portuguese general responsible for the local military operations. In 1965 the war spread to the eastern part of the country and in that same year the PAIGC carried out attacks in the north of the country where at the time only the minor guerrilla movement, the Frente de Luta pela Independência Nacional da Guiné (FLING), was fighting. By that time, the PAIGC started receiving military support from the Socialist Bloc, mainly from Cuba, a support that would last until the end of the war.\n\nIn Guinea the Portuguese troops mainly took a defensive position, limiting themselves to keeping the territories they already held. This kind of action was particularly devastating to the Portuguese troops who were constantly attacked by the forces of the PAIGC. They were also demoralised by the steady growth of the influence of the liberation supporters among the population that was being recruited in large numbers by the PAIGC.\n\nWith some strategic changes by António Spínola in the late 1960s, the Portuguese forces gained momentum and, taking the offensive, became a much more effective force. Between 1968 and 1972, the Portuguese forces took control of the situation and sometimes carried attacks against the PAIGC positions. At this time the Portuguese forces were also adopting subversive means to counter the insurgents, attacking the political structure of the nationalist movement. This strategy culminated in the assassination of Amílcar Cabral in January 1973. Nonetheless, the PAIGC continued to fight back and pushed the Portuguese forces to the limit. This became even more visible after PAIGC received anti-aircraft weapons provided by the Soviets, especially the SA-7 rocket launchers, thus undermining the Portuguese air superiority.\n\nPortuguese Mozambique was the last territory to start the war of liberation. Its nationalist movement was led by the Marxist-Leninist Liberation Front of Mozambique (FRELIMO), which carried out the first attack against Portuguese targets on September 24, 1964, in Chai, province of Cabo Delgado. The fighting later spread to Niassa, Tete at the centre of the country. A report from Battalion No. 558 of the Portuguese army makes references to violent actions, also in Cabo Delgado, on August 21, 1964. On November 16 of the same year, the Portuguese troops suffered their first losses fighting in the north of the country, in the region of Xilama. By this time, the size of the guerrilla movement had substantially increased; this, along with the low numbers of Portuguese troops and colonists, allowed a steady increase in FRELIMO's strength. It quickly started moving south in the direction of Meponda and Mandimba, linking to Tete with the aid of Malawi.\n\nUntil 1967 the FRELIMO showed less interest in Tete region, putting its efforts on the two northernmost districts of the country where the use of landmines became very common. In the region of Niassa, FRELIMO's intention was to create a free corridor to Zambézia. Until April 1970, the military activity of FRELIMO increased steadily, mainly due to the strategic work of Samora Machel in the region of Cabo Delgado. In the early 1970s, after the Portuguese Gordian Knot Operation, the nationalist guerrilla was severely damaged.\n\nThe Organisation of African Unity (OAU) was founded May 1963. Its basic principles were co-operation between African nations and solidarity between African peoples. Another important objective of the OAU was an end to all forms of colonialism in Africa. This became the major objective of the organisation in its first years and soon OAU pressure led to the situation in the Portuguese colonies being brought up at the UN Security Council.\n\nThe OAU established a committee based in Dar es Salaam, with representatives from Ethiopia, Algeria, Uganda, Egypt, Tanzania, Zaire, Guinea, Senegal and Nigeria, to support African liberation movements. The support provided by the committee included military training and weapon supplies. The OAU also took action in order to promote the international acknowledgement of the legitimacy of the Revolutionary Government of Angola in Exile (GRAE), composed of the National Liberation Front of Angola (FNLA). This support was transferred to the People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) and to its leader, Agostinho Neto in 1967. In November 1972, both movements were recognised by the OAU in order to promote their merger. After 1964, the OAU recognised PAIGC as the legitimate representatives of Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde and in 1965 recognised FRELIMO for Mozambique.\n\nEritrea sits on a strategic location along the Red Sea, between the Suez Canal and the Bab-el-Mandeb. Eritrea was an Italian colony from 1890-1941. On April 1, 1941, the British captured Asmara defeating the Italians and Eritrea fell under the British Military Administration. This military rule lasted from 1941 until 1952. On December 2, 1950, the United Nations General Assembly, by UN Resolution 390 A(V) federated Eritrea with Ethiopia. The architect of this federal act was the United States. The federation went into effect September 11, 1952. However, the federation was a non-starter for feudal Ethiopia, and it started to systematically undermine it. On December 24, 1958—the Eritrean flag was replaced by the Ethiopian flag;\nOn May 17, 1960—The title \"Government of Eritrea\" of the Federation was changed to \"Administration of Eritrea\". Earlier Amharic was declared official language in Eritrea replacing Tigrinya and Arabic. Finally on November 14, 1962 -– Ethiopia officially annexed Eritrea as its 14th province.\n\nThe people of Eritrea, after finding out peaceful resistance against Ethiopia's rule was falling on deaf ears formed the Eritrean Liberation Movement (ELM) which was formed in 1958. The founders of these independence movement were: Mohammad Said Nawud, Saleh Ahmed Iyay, Yasin al-Gade, Mohammad al-Hassen and Said Sabr. ELM members were organised in secret cells of seven. The movement was known as Mahber Shewate in Tigrinya and as Harakat Atahrir al Eritrea in Arabic. On July 10, 1960, a second independence movement, the Eritrean Liberation Front (ELF) was founded in Cairo. Among its founders were: Idris Mohammed Adem, President, Osman Salih Sabbe, Secretary General, and Idris Glawdewos as head of military affairs. These were among those who made up the highest political body known as the Supreme Council. On September 1, 1961, Hamid Idris Awate and his ELF unit attacked an Ethiopian police unit in western Eritrea (near Mt. Adal). This heralded the 30-year Eritrean war for independence. Between March and November 1970, three core groups that later made up the Eritrean People's Liberation Front (EPLF) split from the ELF and established themselves as separate units.\n\nIn September 1974, Emperor Haile Selassie was overthrown by a military coup in Ethiopia. The military committee that took power in Ethiopia is better known by its Amharic name the Derg. After the military coup the Derg broke ties with the U.S. and realigned itself with the USSR (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) and the USSR and its eastern bloc allies replaced America as patrons of Ethiopia's aggression against Eritrea. Between January and July 1977, the ELF and EPLF armies had liberated 95% of Eritrea capturing all but 4 towns. However, in 1978-79, Ethiopia mounted a series of five massive Soviet-backed offensives and reoccupied almost all of Eritrea's major towns and cities, except for Nakfa. The EPLF withdrew to a mountain base in northern Eritrea, around the town of Nakfa. In 1980 the EPLF had offered a proposal for referendum to end the war, however, Ethiopia, thinking it had a military upper hand, rejected the offer and war continued. In February–June 1982, The EPLF managed to repulse Ethiopia's much heralded four-month \"Red Star\" campaign (aka the 6th offensive by Eritreans) inflicting more than 31,000 Ethiopian casualties. In 1984 the EPLF started its counter-offensive and cleared the Ethiopian from the North-eastern Sahil front. In March 1988 the EPLF demolished the Ethiopian front at Afabet in a major offensive the British Historian Basil Davidson compared to the French defeat at Dien Bien Phu. In February 1990 the EPLF liberated the strategic port of Massawa and in the process destroyed a portion of the Ethiopian Navy. A year later the war came to conclusion on May 24, 1991, when the Ethiopian army in Eritrea surrendered. Thus Eritrea's 30-year war crowned with victory.\n\nOn May 24, 1993, after a UN-supervised referendum on April 23–25, 1993, in which the Eritrean people overwhelmingly, 99.8%, voted for independence, Eritrea officially declared its independence and gained international recognition.\n\nAt the onset of World War I, the Union of South Africa participated in the invasion and occupation of several Allied territories taken from the German Empire, most notably German South-West Africa and German East Africa (Tanzania). Germany's defeat forced the new Weimar Republic to cede its overseas possessions to the League of Nations as mandates. A mandate over South-West Africa was conferred upon the United Kingdom, \"for and on behalf of the government of the Union of South Africa\", which was to handle administrative affairs under the supervision of the league. South-West Africa was classified as a \"C\" mandate, or a territory whose population sparseness, small size, remoteness, and geographic continuity to the mandatory power allowed it to be governed as an integral part of the mandatory itself. Nevertheless, the League of Nations obliged South Africa to promote social progress among indigenous inhabitants, refrain from establishing military bases there, and grant residence to missionaries of any nationality without restriction. Article 7 of the South-West Africa mandate stated that the consent of the league was required for any changes in the terms of the mandate.\n\nWith regards to the local German population, the occupation was on especially lenient terms; South Africa only repatriated civil and military officials, along with a small handful of political undesirables. Other German civilians were allowed to remain. In 1924 all white South-West Africans were automatically naturalised as South African nationals and British subjects thereof; the exception being about 260 who lodged specific objections. In 1926 a Legislative Assembly was created to represent German, Afrikaans, and English-speaking white residents. Control over basic administrative matters, including taxation, was surrendered to the new assembly, while matters pertaining to defence and native affairs remained in the hands of an administrator-general.\n\nFollowing World War II, South-West Africa's international status after the dissolution of the League of Nations was questioned. The United Nations General Assembly refused South Africa permission to incorporate the mandate as a fifth province, largely due to its controversial policy of racial \"apartheid\". At the General Assembly's request the issue was examined at the International Court of Justice. The court ruled in 1950 that South Africa was not required to transfer the mandate to UN trusteeship, but remained obligated to adhere to its original terms, including the submission of annual reports on conditions in the territory. Led by newly elected Afrikaner nationalist Daniel François Malan, the South African government rejected this opinion and refused to recognise the competence of the UN to interfere with South-West African affairs. In 1960 Ethiopia and Liberia, the only two other former League of Nations member states in Africa, petitioned the Hague to rule in a binding decision that the league mandate was still in force and to hold South Africa responsible for failure to provide the highest material and moral welfare of black South-West Africans. It was pointed out that nonwhite residents were subject to all the restrictive \"apartheid\" legislation affecting nonwhites in South Africa, including confinement to reserves, colour bars in employment, pass laws, and influx control over urban migrants. A South African attempt to scupper proceedings by arguing that the court had no jurisdiction to hear the case was rejected; conversely, however, the court itself ruled that Ethiopia and Liberia did not possess the necessary legal interest entitling them to bring the case.\n\nIn October 1966 the General Assembly declared that South Africa had failed to fulfill its obligations as the mandatory power and had in fact disavowed them. The mandate was unilaterally terminated on the grounds that the UN would now assume direct responsibility for South-West Africa. In 1967 and 1969 the UN called for South Africa's disengagement and requested the Security Council to take measures to oust the South African Defence Force from the territory that the General Assembly, at the request of black leaders in exile, had officially renamed Namibia. One of the greatest aggravating obstacles to eventual independence occurred when the UN also agreed to recognise the South West African People's Organization (SWAPO), then an almost exclusively Ovambo body, as the sole authentic representative of the Namibian population. South Africa was offended by the General Assembly's simultaneous dismissal of its various internal Namibian parties as puppets of the occupying power. Furthermore, SWAPO espoused a militant platform which called for independence through UN activity, including military intervention.\n\nBy 1965 SWAPO's morale had been elevated by the formation of a guerrilla wing, the People's Liberation Army of Namibia (PLAN), which forced the deployment of South African Police troops along the long and remote northern frontier. The first armed clashes between PLAN cadres and local security forces took place in August 1966.\n\n"}
{"id": "32698582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32698582", "title": "Al Wafeer Air", "text": "Al Wafeer Air\n\nAl Wafeer Air (Arabic:\"Al-Wafeer Al Thoyaran\") was a charter airline based in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Its main operations were Hajj and Umrah charters. It was founded by Adnan Dabbagh, former Executive Vice-President of Operations of Saudia. The major stakeholders in the carrier were Saudia which held a (40%) stake in the carrier, with Bin Laden Group, the Naghi Group and Al Tayyar Travel Group holding (12.75%).\n\nAl Wafeer ended operations in 2011.\n\nThey had operated one Airbus A310-300 leased from White Airways and three Boeing 747-400 leased from Malaysia Airlines.\n\n\nIn February 2011, a Malaysian daily reported that cabin crews working with Al Wafeer were only paid half of their salaries and also their allowances payment had been put on hold. However, the issue was solved when Al Wafeer agreed to pay the outstanding dues.\n\nAl Wafeer Air\n"}
{"id": "1216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1216", "title": "Athens", "text": "Athens\n\nAthens (; , \"Athína\" ; , \"Athênai\" ) is the capital and largest city of Greece. Athens dominates the Attica region and is one of the world's oldest cities, with its recorded history spanning over 3,400 years and its earliest human presence starting somewhere between the 11th and 7th millennium BC.\n\nClassical Athens was a powerful city-state that emerged in conjunction with the seagoing development of the port of Piraeus, which had been a distinct city prior to its 5th century BC incorporation with Athens. A centre for the arts, learning and philosophy, home of Plato's Academy and Aristotle's Lyceum, it is widely referred to as the cradle of Western civilization and the birthplace of democracy, largely because of its cultural and political impact on the European continent, and in particular the Romans. In modern times, Athens is a large cosmopolitan metropolis and central to economic, financial, industrial, maritime, political and cultural life in Greece. In 2012, Athens was ranked the world's 39th richest city by purchasing power and the 67th most expensive in a UBS study.\n\nAthens is a global city and one of the biggest economic centres in southeastern Europe. It has a large financial sector, and its port Piraeus is both the largest passenger port in Europe, and the second largest in the world. \nThe Municipality of Athens (also City of Athens) had a population of 664,046 (in 2011) within its administrative limits, and a land area of . The urban area of Athens (Greater Athens and Greater Piraeus) extends beyond its administrative municipal city limits, with a population of 3,090,508 (in 2011) over an area of . According to Eurostat in 2011, the functional urban area (FUA) of Athens was the 9th most populous FUA in the European Union (the 6th most populous capital city of the EU), with a population of 3.8 million people. Athens is also the southernmost capital on the European mainland.\n\nThe heritage of the classical era is still evident in the city, represented by ancient monuments and works of art, the most famous of all being the Parthenon, considered a key landmark of early Western civilization. The city also retains Roman and Byzantine monuments, as well as a smaller number of Ottoman monuments. Athens is home to two UNESCO World Heritage Sites, the Acropolis of Athens and the medieval Daphni Monastery. Landmarks of the modern era, dating back to the establishment of Athens as the capital of the independent Greek state in 1834, include the Hellenic Parliament and the so-called \"architectural trilogy of Athens\", consisting of the National Library of Greece, the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens and the Academy of Athens. Athens is also home to several museums and cultural institutions, such as the National Archeological Museum, featuring the world's largest collection of ancient Greek antiquities, the Acropolis Museum, the Museum of Cycladic Art, the Benaki Museum and the Byzantine and Christian Museum. Athens was the host city of the first modern-day Olympic Games in 1896, and 108 years later it welcomed home the 2004 Summer Olympics, making it one of only a handful of cities to have hosted the Olympics more than once.\n\nIn Ancient Greek, the name of the city was (\"Athēnai\", in Classical Attic) a plural. In earlier Greek, such as Homeric Greek, the name had been current in the singular form though, as (\"Athēnē\"). It was possibly rendered in the plural later on, like those of (\"Thêbai\") and (\"Μukênai\"). The root of the word is probably not of Greek or Indo-European origin, and is possibly a remnant of the Pre-Greek substrate of Attica. In antiquity, it was debated whether Athens took its name from its patron goddess Athena (Attic , \"Athēnā\", Ionic , \"Athēnē\", and Doric , \"Athānā\") or Athena took her name from the city. Modern scholars now generally agree that the goddess takes her name from the city, because the ending -\"ene\" is common in names of locations, but rare for personal names. During the medieval period, the name of the city was rendered once again in the singular as . However, after the establishment of the modern Greek state, and partly due to the conservatism of the written language, became again the official name of the city and remained so until the abandonment of Katharevousa in the 1970s, when Ἀθήνα, \"Athína\", became the official name.\n\nAccording to the ancient Athenian founding myth, Athena, the goddess of wisdom, competed against Poseidon, the god of the seas, for patronage of the yet-unnamed city; they agreed that whoever gave the Athenians the better gift would become their patron and appointed Cecrops, the king of Athens, as the judge. According to the account given by Pseudo-Apollodorus, Poseidon struck the ground with his trident and a salt water spring welled up. In an alternative version of the myth from Vergil's \"Georgics\", Poseidon instead gave the Athenians the first horse. In both versions, Athena offered the Athenians the first domesticated olive tree. Cecrops accepted this gift and declared Athena the patron goddess of Athens.\n\nDifferent etymologies, now commonly rejected, were proposed during the 19th century. Christian Lobeck proposed as the root of the name the word (\"áthos\") or (\"ánthos\") meaning \"flower\", to denote Athens as the \"flowering city\". Ludwig von Döderlein proposed the stem of the verb , stem θη- (\"tháō\", \"thē-\", \"to suck\") to denote Athens as having fertile soil.\n\nIn classical literature, the city was sometimes referred to as the City of the Violet Crown, first documented in Pindar's ἰοστέφανοι Ἀθᾶναι (\"iostéphanoi Athânai\"), or as (\"tò kleinòn ásty\", \"the glorious city\"). In medieval texts, variant names include Setines, Satine, and Astines, all derivations involving false splitting of prepositional phrases. Today the caption (\"ī protévousa\"), \"the capital\", has become somewhat common.\n\nAthens sprawls across the central plain of Attica that is often referred to as the \"Athens or Attica Basin\" (Greek: Λεκανοπέδιο Αττικής). The basin is bounded by four large mountains: Mount Aigaleo to the west, Mount Parnitha to the north, Mount Pentelicus to the northeast and Mount Hymettus to the east. Beyond Mount Aegaleo lies the Thriasian plain, which forms an extension of the central plain to the west. The Saronic Gulf lies to the southwest. Mount Parnitha is the tallest of the four mountains (), and has been declared a national park.\n\nAthens is built around a number of hills. Lycabettus is one of the tallest hills of the city proper and provides a view of the entire Attica Basin. The geomorphology of Athens is deemed to be one of the most complex in the world because its mountains cause a temperature inversion phenomenon which, along with the Greek Government's difficulties controlling industrial pollution, was responsible for the air pollution problems the city has faced. This issue is not unique to Athens; for instance, Los Angeles and Mexico City also suffer from similar geomorphology inversion problems.\n\nThe Cephissus river, the Ilisos and the Eridanos stream are the historical rivers of Athens.\n\nBy the late 1970s, the pollution of Athens had become so destructive that according to the then Greek Minister of Culture, Constantine Trypanis, \"...the carved details on the five the caryatids of the Erechtheum had seriously degenerated, while the face of the horseman on the Parthenon's west side was all but obliterated.\" A series of measures taken by the authorities of the city throughout the 1990s resulted in the improvement of air quality; the appearance of smog (or \"nefos\" as the Athenians used to call it) has become less common.\n\nMeasures taken by the Greek authorities throughout the 1990s have improved the quality of air over the Attica Basin. Nevertheless, air pollution still remains an issue for Athens, particularly during the hottest summer days. In late June 2007, the Attica region experienced a number of brush fires, including a blaze that burned a significant portion of a large forested national park in Mount Parnitha, considered critical to maintaining a better air quality in Athens all year round. Damage to the park has led to worries over a stalling in the improvement of air quality in the city.\n\nThe major waste management efforts undertaken in the last decade (particularly the plant built on the small island of Psytalia) have improved water quality in the Saronic Gulf, and the coastal waters of Athens are now accessible again to swimmers. In January 2007, Athens faced a waste management problem when its landfill near Ano Liosia, an Athenian suburb, reached capacity. The crisis eased by mid-January when authorities began taking the garbage to a temporary landfill.\n\nAthens has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Köppen climate classification: \"Csa\"). The dominant feature of Athens’ climate is alternation between prolonged hot and dry summers and mild winters with moderate rainfall. With an average of of yearly precipitation, rainfall occurs largely between the months of October and April. July and August are the driest months, when thunderstorms occur sparsely once or twice a month.\n\nOwing to the rain shadow of the Pindus Mountains, annual precipitation of Athens is lower than most other parts of Greece, especially western Greece. As an example, Ioannina receives around per year, and Agrinio around per year. Daily average highs for July (1988–2017) have been measured at , but some parts of the city may be even hotter, in particular western areas due to a combination of industrialization and a number of natural factors, knowledge of which has existed since the mid-19th century.\n\nAthens is affected by the urban heat island effect in some areas which is caused by human activity, altering its temperatures compared to the surrounding rural areas, and leaving detrimental effects on energy usage, expenditure for cooling, and health. The urban heat island of the city has also been found to be partially responsible for alterations of the climatological temperature time-series of specific Athens meteorological stations, because of its impact on the temperatures and the temperature trends recorded by some meteorological stations. On the other hand, specific meteorological stations, such as the National Garden station and Thiseio meteorological station, are less affected or do not experience the urban heat island.\n\nAthens holds the World Meteorological Organization record for the highest temperature ever recorded in Europe, at , which was recorded in the Elefsina and Tatoi suburbs of Athens on 10 July 1977.\n\nThe municipality of Athens, the city centre of the Athens Urban Area, is divided into several districts: Omonoia, Syntagma, Exarcheia, Agios Nikolaos, Neapolis, Lykavittos, Lofos Strefi, Lofos Finopoulou, Lofos Filopappou, Pedion Areos, Metaxourgeio, Aghios Kostantinos, Larissa Station, Kerameikos, Psiri, Monastiraki, Gazi, Thission, Kapnikarea, Aghia Irini, Aerides, Anafiotika, Plaka, Acropolis, Pnyka, Makrygianni, Lofos Ardittou, Zappeion, Aghios Spyridon, Pangrati, Kolonaki, Dexameni, Evaggelismos, Gouva, Aghios Ioannis, Neos Kosmos, Koukaki, Kynosargous, Fix, Ano Petralona, Kato Petralona, Rouf, Votanikos, Profitis Daniil, Akadimia Platonos, Kolonos, Kolokynthou, Attikis Square, Lofos Skouze, Sepolia, Kypseli, Aghios Meletios, Nea Kypseli, Gyzi, Polygono, Ampelokipoi, Panormou-Gerokomeio, Pentagono, Ellinorosson, Nea Filothei, Ano Kypseli, Tourkovounia-Lofos Patatsou, Lofos Elikonos, Koliatsou, Thymarakia, Kato Patisia, Treis Gefyres, Aghios Eleftherios, Ano Patisia, Kypriadou, Menidi, Prompona, Aghios Panteleimonas, Pangrati, Goudi and Ilisia.\n\n\nThe Gazi () area, one of the latest in full redevelopment, is located around a historic gas factory, now converted into the \"Technopolis\" cultural multiplex, and also includes artists' areas, small clubs, bars and restaurants, as well as Athens's \"Gay village\". The metro's expansion to the western suburbs of the city has brought easier access to the area since spring 2007, as the blue line now stops at Gazi (Kerameikos station).\n\nParnitha National Park is punctuated by well-marked paths, gorges, springs, torrents and caves dotting the protected area. Hiking and mountain-biking in all four mountains are popular outdoor activities for residents of the city. The National Garden of Athens was completed in 1840 and is a green refuge of 15.5 hectares in the centre of the Greek capital. It is to be found between the Parliament and Zappeion buildings, the latter of which maintains its own garden of seven hectares.\n\nParts of the city centre have been redeveloped under a masterplan called the \"Unification of Archeological Sites of Athens\", which has also gathered funding from the EU to help enhance the project. The landmark Dionysiou Areopagitou Street has been pedestrianised, forming a scenic route. The route starts from the Temple of Olympian Zeus at Vasilissis Olgas Avenue, continues under the southern slopes of the Acropolis near Plaka, and finishes just beyond the Temple of Hephaestus in Thiseio. The route in its entirety provides visitors with views of the Parthenon and the Agora (the meeting point of ancient Athenians), away from the busy city centre.\n\nThe hills of Athens also provide green space. Lycabettus, Philopappos hill and the area around it, including Pnyx and Ardettos hill, are planted with pines and other trees, with the character of a small forest rather than typical metropolitan parkland. Also to be found is the Pedion tou Areos (\"Field of Mars\") of 27.7 hectares, near the National Archaeological Museum.\n\nAthens' largest zoo is the Attica Zoological Park, a 20-hectare (49-acre) private zoo located in the suburb of Spata. The zoo is home to around 2000 animals representing 400 species, and is open 365 days a year. Smaller zoos exist within public gardens or parks, such as the zoo within the National Garden of Athens.\n\nThe large City Centre of the Greek capital falls directly within the municipality of Athens, which is the largest in population size in Greece. Piraeus also forms a significant city centre on its own, within the Athens Urban Area and being the second largest in population size within it, with Peristeri and Kallithea following.\n\nThe Athens Metropolitan Area consists of 58 densely populated municipalities, sprawling around the municipality of Athens (the city centre) in virtually all directions. For the Athenians, all the urban municipalities surrounding the city centre are called suburbs. According to their geographic location in relation to the City of Athens, the suburbs are divided into four zones; the northern suburbs (including Agios Stefanos, Dionysos, Ekali, Nea Erythraia, Kifissia, Maroussi, Pefki, Lykovrysi, Metamorfosi, Nea Ionia, Nea Filadelfeia, Irakleio, Vrilissia, Melissia, Penteli, Chalandri, Agia Paraskevi, Galatsi, Psychiko and Filothei); the southern suburbs (including Alimos, Nea Smyrni, Moschato, Kallithea, Agios Dimitrios, Palaio Faliro, Elliniko, Glyfada, Argyroupoli, Ilioupoli, Voula and Vouliagmeni); the eastern suburbs (including Zografou, Dafni, Vyronas, Kaisariani, Cholargos and Papagou); and the western suburbs (including Peristeri, Ilion, Egaleo, Koridallos, Agia Varvara, Chaidari, Petroupoli, Agioi Anargyroi and Kamatero).\n\nThe Athens city coastline, extending from the major commercial port of Piraeus to the southernmost suburb of Varkiza for some , is also connected to the city centre by a tram.\n\nIn the northern suburb of Maroussi, the upgraded main Olympic Complex (known by its Greek acronym OAKA) dominates the skyline. The area has been redeveloped according to a design by the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava, with steel arches, landscaped gardens, fountains, futuristic glass, and a landmark new blue glass roof which was added to the main stadium. A second Olympic complex, next to the sea at the beach of Palaio Faliro, also features modern stadia, shops and an elevated esplanade. Work is underway to transform the grounds of the old Athens Airport – named Elliniko – in the southern suburbs, into one of the largest landscaped parks in Europe, to be named the Hellenikon Metropolitan Park.\n\nMany of the southern suburbs (such as Alimos, Palaio Faliro, Elliniko, Glyfada, Voula, Vouliagmeni and Varkiza) known as the Athens Riviera, host a number of sandy beaches, most of which are operated by the Greek National Tourism Organisation and require an entrance fee. Casinos operate on both Mount Parnitha, some from downtown Athens (accessible by car or cable car), and the nearby town of Loutraki (accessible by car via the Athens – Corinth National Highway, or the suburban rail service Proastiakos).\n\nThe Athens Urban Area today consists of 40 municipalities, 35 of which make up what is referred to as the Greater Athens municipalities, located within 4 regional units (North Athens, West Athens, Central Athens, South Athens); and a further 5, which make up the Greater Piraeus municipalities, located within the regional unit of Piraeus as mentioned above. The densely built up urban area of the Greek capital sprawls across throughout the \"Attica Basin\" and has a total population of 3,074,160 (in 2011).\n\nThe Athens municipality forms the core and center of Greater Athens, which consists of the Athens municipality and 34 more municipalities, divided in four regional units (Central, North, South and West Athens), accounting for 2,641,511 people (in 2011) within an area of . Until 2010, these four regional units made up the abolished Athens Prefecture. The municipality of Piraeus, the historic Athenian port, with its 4 suburban municipalities make up the regional unit of Piraeus, which in turn forms Greater Piraeus.\n\nGreater Athens and Greater Piraeus combined make up the continuous built up Athens Urban Area (), also called the Urban Area of the Capital () or simply Athens (the most common use of the term), spanning over , with a population of 3,090,508 people as of 2011. The Athens Urban Area is considered to form the city of Athens as a whole, despite its administrative divisions, which is the largest in Greece and one of the most populated urban areas in Europe.\n\nThe Athens Metropolitan Area spans within the Attica region and includes a total of 58 municipalities, which are organized in 7 regional units (those outlined above, along with East Attica and West Attica), having reached a population of 3,737,550 based on the preliminary results of the 2011 census. Athens and Piraeus municipalities serve as the two metropolitan centres of the Athens Metropolitan Area. There are also some inter-municipal centres serving specific areas. For example, Kifissia and Glyfada serve as inter-municipal centres for northern and southern suburbs respectively.\n\nThe municipality of Athens has an official population of 664,046 people. The four regional units that make up what is referred to as Greater Athens have a combined population of 2,640,701. They together with the regional unit of Piraeus (Greater Piraeus) make up the dense Athens Urban Area which reaches a total population of 3,090,508 inhabitants (in 2011). As Eurostat the FUA of Athens had in 2013 3,828,434 inhabitants, being apparently decreasing compared with the pre-economic crisis date of 2009 (4,164,175)\n\nThe municipality (City) of Athens is the most populous in Greece, with a population of 664,046 people (in 2011) and an area of , forming the core of the Athens Urban Area within the \"Attica Basin\". The current mayor of Athens is Giorgos Kaminis. The municipality is divided into seven municipal districts which are mainly used for administrative purposes.\n\nAs of the 2011 census, the population for each of the seven municipal districts of Athens is as follows:\n\n\nFor the Athenians the most popular way of dividing the city proper is through its neighbourhoods such as Pagkrati, Ambelokipi, Exarcheia, Patissia, Ilissia, Petralona, Koukaki and Kypseli, each with its own distinct history and characteristics.\n\nThe Athens Metropolitan Area, with an area of and inhabited by 3,753,783 people in 2011, consists of the Athens Urban Area with the addition of the towns and villages of East and West Attica, which surround the dense urban area of the Greek capital. It actually sprawls over the whole peninsula of Attica, which is the best part of the region of Attica, excluding the islands.\n\nMycenean Athens in 1600–1100 BC could have reached the size of Tiryns; that would put the population at the range of 10,000 – 15,000. During the Greek Dark Ages the population of Athens was around 4,000 people. In 700 BC the population grew to 10,000. In 500 BC the area probably contained 200,000 people. During the classical period the city's population is estimated from 150,000 – 350,000 and up to 610,000 according to Thucydides. When Demetrius of Phalerum conducted a population census in 317 BC the population was 21,000 free citizens, plus 10,000 resident aliens and 400,000 slaves. This suggests a total population of 431,000. This figure is highly suspect because of the lopsided number of slaves and does not include free women and children and resident foreigners: an estimated based on Thucydides is: 40,000 male citizens, 100,000 family members, 70,000 metics (resident foreigners) and 150,000-400,000 slaves. However the numbers would include Attica and not just Athens the city.\n\nThe ancient site of Athens is centred on the rocky hill of the acropolis. In ancient times the port of Piraeus was a separate city, but it has now been absorbed into the Athens Urban Area. The rapid expansion of the city, which continues to this day, was initiated in the 1950s and 1960s, because of Greece's transition from an agricultural to an industrial nation. The expansion is now particularly toward the East and North East (a tendency greatly related to the new Eleftherios Venizelos International Airport and the Attiki Odos, the freeway that cuts across Attica). By this process Athens has engulfed many former suburbs and villages in Attica, and continues to do so. The table below shows the historical population of Athens in recent times.\n\nAthens became the capital of Greece in 1834, following Nafplion, which was the provisional capital from 1829. The municipality (City) of Athens is also the capital of the Attica region. The term \"Athens\" can refer either to the municipality of Athens, to Greater Athens, or to the entire Athens Urban Area.\n\nAthens is twinned with:\n\n\nThe oldest known human presence in Athens is the Cave of Schist, which has been dated to between the 11th and 7th millennia BC. Athens has been continuously inhabited for at least 7000 years.\nBy 1400 BC the settlement had become an important centre of the Mycenaean civilization and the Acropolis was the site of a major Mycenaean fortress, whose remains can be recognised from sections of the characteristic Cyclopean walls. Unlike other Mycenaean centers, such as Mycenae and Pylos, it is not known whether Athens suffered destruction in about 1200 BC, an event often attributed to a Dorian invasion, and the Athenians always maintained that they were \"pure\" Ionians with no Dorian element. However, Athens, like many other Bronze Age settlements, went into economic decline for around 150 years afterwards.\n\nIron Age burials, in the Kerameikos and other locations, are often richly provided for and demonstrate that from 900 BC onwards Athens was one of the leading centres of trade and prosperity in the region. The leading position of Athens may well have resulted from its central location in the Greek world, its secure stronghold on the Acropolis and its access to the sea, which gave it a natural advantage over inland rivals such as Thebes and Sparta.\n\nBy the 6th century BC, widespread social unrest led to the reforms of Solon. These would pave the way for the eventual introduction of democracy by Cleisthenes in 508 BC. Athens had by this time become a significant naval power with a large fleet, and helped the rebellion of the Ionian cities against Persian rule. In the ensuing Greco-Persian Wars Athens, together with Sparta, led the coalition of Greek states that would eventually repel the Persians, defeating them decisively at Marathon in 490 BC, and crucially at Salamis in 480 BC. However, this did not prevent Athens from being captured and sacked twice by the Persians within one year, after a heroic resistance at Thermopylae by Spartans and other Greeks led by King Leonidas, after both Boeotia and Attica fell to the Persians.\n\nThe decades that followed became known as the Golden Age of Athenian democracy, during which time Athens became the leading city of Ancient Greece, with its cultural achievements laying the foundations for Western civilization. The playwrights Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides flourished in Athens during this time, as did the historians Herodotus and Thucydides, the physician Hippocrates, and the philosopher Socrates. Guided by Pericles, who promoted the arts and fostered democracy, Athens embarked on an ambitious building program that saw the construction of the Acropolis of Athens (including the Parthenon), as well as empire-building via the Delian League. Originally intended as an association of Greek city-states to continue the fight against the Persians, the league soon turned into a vehicle for Athens's own imperial ambitions. The resulting tensions brought about the Peloponnesian War (431–404 BC), in which Athens was defeated by its rival Sparta.\n\nBy the mid-4th century BC, the northern Greek kingdom of Macedon was becoming dominant in Athenian affairs. In 338 BC the armies of Philip II defeated an alliance of some of the Greek city-states including Athens and Thebes at the Battle of Chaeronea, effectively ending Athenian independence. Later, under Rome, Athens was given the status of a free city because of its widely admired schools. The Roman emperor Hadrian, in the 2nd century CE, constructed a library, a gymnasium, an aqueduct which is still in use, several temples and sanctuaries, a bridge and financed the completion of the Temple of Olympian Zeus.\n\nBy the end of Late Antiquity, the city experienced decline followed by recovery in the second half of the Middle Byzantine Period, in the 9th to 10th centuries CE, and was relatively prosperous during the Crusades, benefiting from Italian trade. After the Fourth Crusade the Duchy of Athens was established. In 1458 it was conquered by the Ottoman Empire and entered a long period of decline.\n\nFollowing the Greek War of Independence and the establishment of the Greek Kingdom, Athens was chosen as the capital of the newly independent Greek state in 1834, largely because of historical and sentimental reasons. At the time, it was reduced to a town of about 4,000 people in a loose swarm of houses along the foot of the Acropolis. The first King of Greece, Otto of Bavaria, commissioned the architects Stamatios Kleanthis and Eduard Schaubert to design a modern city plan fit for the capital of a state.\n\nThe first modern city plan consisted of a triangle defined by the Acropolis, the ancient cemetery of Kerameikos and the new palace of the Bavarian king (now housing the Greek Parliament), so as to highlight the continuity between modern and ancient Athens. Neoclassicism, the international style of this epoch, was the architectural style through which Bavarian, French and Greek architects such as Hansen, Klenze, Boulanger or Kaftantzoglou designed the first important public buildings of the new capital. In 1896, Athens hosted the first modern Olympic Games. During the 1920s a number of Greek refugees, expelled from Asia Minor after the Greco-Turkish War, swelled Athens's population; nevertheless it was most particularly following World War II, and from the 1950s and 1960s, that the population of the city exploded, and Athens experienced a gradual expansion.\n\nIn the 1980s it became evident that smog from factories and an ever-increasing fleet of automobiles, as well as a lack of adequate free space due to congestion, had evolved into the city's most important challenge. A series of anti-pollution measures taken by the city's authorities in the 1990s, combined with a substantial improvement of the city's infrastructure (including the Attiki Odos motorway, the expansion of the Athens Metro, and the new Athens International Airport), considerably alleviated pollution and transformed Athens into a much more functional city. In 2004 Athens hosted the 2004 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe city is a world centre of archaeological research. Along with national institutions, such as the Athens University and the Archaeological Society, there are multiple archaeological Museums including the National Archaeological Museum, the Cycladic Museum, the Epigraphic Museum, the Byzantine & Christian Museum, as well as museums at the ancient Agora, Acropolis, Kerameikos, and the Kerameikos Archaeological Museum. The city is also home to the Demokritos laboratory for Archaeometry, alongside regional and national archaeological authorities that form part of the Greek Department of Culture.\n\nAthens hosts 17 Foreign Archaeological Institutes which promote and facilitate research by scholars from their home countries. As a result, Athens has more than a dozen archaeological libraries and three specialized archaeological laboratories, and is the venue of several hundred specialized lectures, conferences and seminars, as well as dozens of archaeological exhibitions, each year. At any given time, hundreds of international scholars and researchers in all disciplines of archaeology are to be found in the city.\n\nAthens incorporates architectural styles ranging from Greco-Roman and Neoclassical to modern times. They are often to be found in the same areas, as Athens is not marked by a uniformity of architectural style. A visitor will quickly notice the absence of tall buildings: Athens has very strict height restriction laws in order to ensure the Acropolis hill is visible throughout the city.\n\nFor the greatest part of the 19th century Neoclassicism dominated Athens, as well as some deviations from it such as Eclecticism, especially in the early 20th century. Thus, the Old Royal Palace was the first important public building to be built, between 1836 and 1843. Later in the mid and late 19th century, Theophil Freiherr von Hansen and Ernst Ziller took part in the construction of many neoclassical buildings such as the Athens Academy and the Zappeion Hall. Ziller also designed many private mansions in the centre of Athens which gradually became public, usually through donations, such as Schliemann's Iliou Melathron.\n\nBeginning in the 1920s, Modern architecture including Bauhaus and Art Deco began to exert an influence on almost all Greek architects, and buildings both public and private were constructed in accordance with these styles. Localities with a great number of such buildings include Kolonaki, and some areas of the centre of the city; neighbourhoods developed in this period include Kypseli.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s during the extension and development of Athens, other modern movements such as the International style played an important role. The centre of Athens was largely rebuilt, leading to the demolition of a number of neoclassical buildings. The architects of this era employed materials such as glass, marble and aluminium, and many blended modern and classical elements. After World War II, internationally known architects to have designed and built in the city included Walter Gropius, with his design for the US Embassy, and, among others, Eero Saarinen, in his postwar design for the east terminal of the Ellinikon Airport.\n\nAll over the city can be found several statues or busts. Apart from the neoclassicals by Leonidas Drosis at the Academy of Athens (Plato, Socrates, Apollo, Athena), other notable include the statue of Theseus by Georgios Fytalis at Thiseion, of philhellenes like Lord Byron, George Canning and William Gladstone, the equestrian statue of Theodoros Kolokotronis by Lazaros Sochos in front of the Old Parliament, statues of Ioannis Kapodistrias, Rigas Feraios and Adamantios Korais at the University, of Evangelos Zappas and Konstantinos Zappas at Zappeion, of Ioannis Varvakis at the National Garden, the \"woodbreaker\" by Dimitrios Filippotis, the equestrian statue of Alexandros Papagos at Papagou district and various busts of fighters of Greek independence at the Pedion tou Areos. An important landmark is also the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Syntagma.\n\nAthens' most important museums include:\n\nAthens has been a destination for travellers since antiquity. Over the past decade, the city's infrastructure and social amenities have improved, in part because of its successful bid to stage the 2004 Olympic Games. The Greek Government, aided by the EU, has funded major infrastructure projects such as the state-of-the-art Eleftherios Venizelos International Airport, the expansion of the Athens Metro system, and the new Attiki Odos Motorway.\n\nAthens was voted as the third best European city to visit in 2015 by European Best Destination. More than 240,000 people voted.\n\nAthens is home to 148 theatrical stages, more than any other city in the world, including the ancient Odeon of Herodes Atticus, home to the Athens Festival, which runs from May to October each year. In addition to a large number of multiplexes, Athens plays host to open air garden cinemas. The city also supports music venues, including the Athens Concert Hall (\"Megaron Moussikis\"), which attracts world class artists. The Athens Planetarium, located in Andrea Syngrou Avenue, is one of the largest and best equipped digital planetaria in the world. The Stavros Niarchos Foundation Cultural Center, inaugurated in 2016, will house the National Library of Greece and the Greek National Opera.\n\nThe most successful songs during the period 1870–1930 were the so-called Athenian serenades (Αθηναϊκές καντάδες), based on the Heptanesean kantádhes (καντάδες 'serenades'; sing.: καντάδα) and the songs performed on stage (επιθεωρησιακά τραγούδια 'theatrical revue songs') in revues, musical comedies, operettas and nocturnes that were dominating Athens' theatre scene.\n\nNotable composers of operettas or nocturnes were Kostas Giannidis, Dionysios Lavrangas, Nikos Hatziapostolou, while Theophrastos Sakellaridis' \"The Godson\" remains probably the most popular operetta. Despite the fact that the Athenian songs were not autonomous artistic creations (in contrast with the serenades) and despite their original connection with mainly dramatic forms of Art, they eventually became hits as independent songs. Notable actors of Greek operettas, who made also a series of melodies and songs popular at that time, include Orestis Makris, Kalouta sisters, Vasilis Avlonitis, Afroditi Laoutari, Eleni Papadaki, Marika Nezer, Marika Krevata and others. After 1930, wavering among American and European musical influences as well as the Greek musical tradition. Greek composers begin to write music using the tunes of the tango, waltz, swing, foxtrot, some times combined with melodies in the style of Athenian serenades' repertory. Nikos Gounaris was probably the most renowned composer and singer of the time.\n\nIn 1923, after the population exchange between Greece and Turkey, many ethnic Greeks from Asia Minor fled to Athens as a result of the Greco-Turkish War. They settled in poor neighborhoods and brought with them Rebetiko music, making it popular also in Greece, which became later the base for the Laïko music. Other forms of song popular today in Greece are elafrolaika, entechno, dimotika, and skyladika. Greece's most notable, and internationally famous, composers of Greek song, mainly of the entechno form, are Manos Hadjidakis and Mikis Theodorakis. Both composers have achieved fame abroad for their composition of film scores.\n\nAthens has a long tradition in sports and sporting events, serving as home to the most important clubs in Greek sport and housing a large number of sports facilities. The city has also been host to sports events of international importance.\n\nAthens has hosted the Summer Olympic Games twice, in 1896 and 2004. The 2004 Summer Olympics required the development of the Athens Olympic Stadium, which has since gained a reputation as one of the most beautiful stadiums in the world, and one of its most interesting modern monuments. The biggest stadium in the country, it hosted two finals of the UEFA Champions League, in 1994 and 2007. Athens' other major stadium, located in the Piraeus area, is the Karaiskakis Stadium, a sports and entertainment complex, host of the 1971 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup Final.\n\nAthens has hosted the Euroleague final three times, the first in 1985 and second in 1993, both at the Peace and Friendship Stadium, most known as SEF, a large indoor arena, and the third time in 2007 at the Olympic Indoor Hall. Events in other sports such as athletics, volleyball, water polo etc., have been hosted in the capital's venues.\n\nAthens is home to three European multi-sport clubs: Olympiacos, Panathinaikos, AEK Athens. In football, Olympiacos have dominated the domestic competitions, Panathinaikos made it to the 1971 European Cup Final, while AEK Athens is the other member of the big three. These clubs also have basketball teams; Panathinaikos and Olympiacos are among the top powers in European basketball, having won the Euroleague six times and three respectively, whilst AEK Athens was the first Greek team to win a European trophy in any team sport.\n\nOther notable clubs within Athens are Athinaikos, Panionios, Atromitos, Apollon, Panellinios, Ethnikos Piraeus, Maroussi BCE and Peristeri B.C.. Athenian clubs have also had domestic and international success in other sports.\n\nThe Athens area encompasses a variety of terrain, notably hills and mountains rising around the city, and the capital is the only major city in Europe to be bisected by a mountain range. Four mountain ranges extend into city boundaries and thousands of miles of trails criss-cross the city and neighbouring areas, providing exercise and wilderness access on foot and bike.\n\nBeyond Athens and across the prefecture of Attica, outdoor activities include skiing, rock climbing, hang gliding and windsurfing. Numerous outdoor clubs serve these sports, including the Athens Chapter of the Sierra Club, which leads over 4,000 outings annually in the area.\n\nBeside the above clubs, inside the boundaries of Athens municipality there are some more clubs with presence in national divisions or notable action for short periods. Some of them are PAO Rouf (Rouf) with earlier presence in Gamma Ethniki, Petralona F.C.() (Petralona), football club founded in 1963, with earlier presence in Beta Ethniki, Attikos F.C.() (Kolonos), football club founded in 1919 with short presence in Gamma Ethniki, Athinais Kypselis() (Kypseli), football club founded in 1938 with short presence in Gamma Ethniki, Gyziakos (Gyzi), basketball club founded in 1937 with short presence in Beta Ethniki basketball and Aetos B.C.() (Agios Panteleimonas), basketball club founded in 1992 with earlier presence in A2 Ethniki Basketball. Another important Athenian sport club is the Athens Tennis Club founded in 1895 with important offer for the Greek tennis.\n\n1896 brought forth the revival of the modern Olympic Games, by Frenchman Pierre de Coubertin. Thanks to his efforts, Athens was awarded the first modern Olympic Games. In 1896, the city had a population of 123,000 and the event helped boost the city's international profile. Of the venues used for these Olympics, the Kallimarmaro Stadium, and Zappeion were most crucial. The Kallimarmaro is a replica of the ancient Athenian stadiums, and the only major stadium (in its capacity of 60,000) to be made entirely of white marble from Mount Penteli, the same material used for construction of the Parthenon.\n\nThe 1906 Summer Olympics, or the 1906 Intercalated games, were held in Athens. The intercalated competitions were intermediate games to the internationally organized Olympics, and were meant to be organized in Greece every four years, between the main Olympics. This idea later lost support from the IOC and these games were discontinued.\n\nAthens was awarded the 2004 Summer Olympics on 5 September 1997 in Lausanne, Switzerland, after having lost a previous bid to host the 1996 Summer Olympics, to Atlanta, United States. It was to be the second time Athens would host the games, following the inaugural event of 1896. After an unsuccessful bid in 1990, the 1997 bid was radically improved, including an appeal to Greece's Olympic history. In the last round of voting, Athens defeated Rome with 66 votes to 41. Prior to this round, the cities of Buenos Aires, Stockholm and Cape Town had been eliminated from competition, having received fewer votes.\n\nDuring the first three years of preparations, the International Olympic Committee had expressed concern over the speed of construction progress for some of the new Olympic venues. In 2000 the Organising Committee's president was replaced by Gianna Angelopoulos-Daskalaki, who was the president of the original Bidding Committee in 1997. From that point forward, preparations continued at a highly accelerated, almost frenzied pace.\n\nAlthough the heavy cost was criticized, estimated at $1.5 billion, Athens was transformed into a more functional city that enjoys modern technology both in transportation and in modern urban development. Some of the finest sporting venues in the world were created in the city, all of which were fully ready for the games. The games welcomed over 10,000 athletes from all 202 countries.\n\nThe 2004 Games were judged a success, as both security and organization worked well, and only a few visitors reported minor problems mainly concerning accommodation issues. The 2004 Olympic Games were described as \"Unforgettable, dream Games\", by IOC President Jacques Rogge for their return to the birthplace of the Olympics, and for meeting the challenges of holding the Olympic Games. The only observable problem was a somewhat sparse attendance of some early events. Eventually, however, a total of more than 3.5 million tickets were sold, which was higher than any other Olympics with the exception of Sydney (more than 5 million tickets were sold there in 2000).\n\nIn 2008 it was reported that most of the Olympic venues had fallen into disrepair: according to those reports, 21 of the 22 facilities built for the games had either been left abandoned or are in a state of dereliction, with several squatter camps having sprung up around certain facilities, and a number of venues afflicted by vandalism, graffiti or strewn with rubbish. These claims, however, are disputed and likely to be inaccurate, as most of the facilities used for the Athens Olympics are either in use or in the process of being converted for post-Olympics use. The Greek Government has created a corporation, Olympic Properties SA, which is overseeing the post-Olympics management, development and conversion of these facilities, some of which will be sold off (or have already been sold off) to the private sector, while other facilities are still in use just as during the Olympics, or have been converted for commercial use or modified for other sports. Concerts and theatrical shows, such as those by the troupe Cirque du Soleil, have recently been held in the complex.\n\nThe 2011 Special Olympics World Summer Games was in Athens. The opening ceremony of the games took place on 25 June 2011 at the Panathinaiko Stadium and the closing ceremony was held on 4 July 2011.\n\nOver 7,500 athletes, from 185 countries, competed in a total of 22 sports.\n\nAthens is the financial capital of Greece, and multinational companies such as Ericsson, Siemens, Motorola and Coca-Cola have their regional research and development headquarters there.\n\nAthens is serviced by a variety of transportation means, forming the largest mass transit system of Greece. The Athens Mass Transit System consists of a large bus fleet, a trolleybus fleet that mainly serves Athens's city center, the city's Metro, a commuter rail service and a tram network, connecting the southern suburbs to the city centre.\n\nEthel () (Etaireia Thermikon Leoforeion), or \"Thermal Bus Company\", is the main operator of buses in Athens. Its network consists of about 300 bus lines which span the Athens Metropolitan Area, with an operating staff of 5,327, and a fleet of 1,839 buses. Of those 1,839 buses 416 run on compressed natural gas, making up the largest fleet of natural gas-powered buses in Europe.\n\nBesides being served by a fleet of natural-gas and diesel buses, the Athens Urban Area is also served by trolleybuses – or electric buses, as they are referred to in the name of the operating company. The network is operated by \"Electric Buses of the Athens and Piraeus Region\", or ILPAP () and consists of 22 lines with an operating staff of 1,137. All of the 366 trolleybuses are equipped to enable them to run on diesel in case of power failure.\n\nInternational and regional bus links are provided by KTEL from two InterCity Bus Terminals, Kifissos Bus Terminal A and Liosion Bus Terminal B, both located in the north-western part of the city. \"Kifissos\" provides connections towards the Peloponnese and Attica, whereas \"Liosion\" is used for most northerly mainland destinations.\n\nThe Athens Metro is more commonly known in Greece as the Attiko Metro () and provides public transport throughout the Athens Urban Area. While its main purpose is transport, it also houses Greek artifacts found during construction of the system. The Athens Metro has an operating staff of 387 and runs two of the three metro lines; namely the Red (line 2) and Blue (line 3) lines, which were constructed largely during the 1990s, with the initial sections opened in January 2000. All routes run entirely underground and a fleet of 42 trains consisting of 252 cars operate within the network, with a daily occupancy of 550,000 passengers.\n\nThe Red Line (line 2) runs from Anthoupoli station to Elliniko station and covers a distance of . The line connects the western suburbs of Athens with the southeast suburbs, passing through the center of Athens. The Red line has transfer connections with the Green (line 1) at Attiki and Omonoia Square stations. There are also transfer connections with the Blue (line 3) at the Syntagma Square station and with the Tram at Syntagma Square, Sygrou-Fix and Agios Ioannis stations.\n\nThe Blue Line (line 3) runs from the western suburbs, namely Agia Marina to the Egaleo station, through the central Monastiraki and Syntagma stations to Doukissis Plakentias avenue in the northeastern suburb of Halandri, covering a distance of , then ascending to ground level and reaching Eleftherios Venizelos International Airport, using the Suburban Railway infrastructure and extending its length to . The spring 2007 extension from Monastiraki westwards, to Egaleo, connected some of the main night life hubs of the city, namely the ones of Gazi (Kerameikos station) with Psirri (Monastiraki station) and the city centre (Syntagma station). Extensions are under construction to the west southwest suburbs of Athens, reaching to the port and the center of Piraeus. The new stations will be Agia Barvara, Koridallos, Nikaia, Maniatika, Piraeus and Dimotiko Theatro station. The stations will be ready in 2021 (the first three will open in 2019), connecting the biggest port of Greece, Piraeus Port ,with the biggest airport of Greece the Athens International Airport.\n\nNot run by the Athens Metro company, is the ISAP (), the \"Electric Railway Company\" line, which for many years served as Athens's primary urban rail transport. This is today the Green Line (line 1) of the Athens Metro network as shown on maps, and unlike the red and blue lines, ISAP has many above-ground sections on its route. This was the original metro line from Piraeus to Kifisia; serving 22 stations, with a network length of , an operating staff of 730 and a fleet of 44 trains and 243 cars. ISAP's occupancy rate is 600,000 passengers daily.\n\nThe Green Line (line 1) now serves 24 stations, and forms the oldest line of the Athens metro network and for the most part runs at ground level, connecting the port of Piraeus with the northern suburb of Kifissia. The line is set to be extended to Agios Stefanos, a suburb located to the north of Athens, reaching to .\n\nThe Athens Metropolitan Railway system is managed by three companies; namely ISAP (line 1), Attiko Metro (lines 2 & 3), while its commuter rail, the Proastiakós is considered as line 4.\n\nThe Athens commuter rail service, referred to as the \"Proastiakós\", connects Eleftherios Venizelos International Airport to the city of Kiato, west of Athens, via Larissa station, the city's central rail station and the port of Piraeus. The service is sometimes considered the fourth line of the Athens Metro. The length of Athens's commuter rail network extends to , and is expected to stretch to by 2010. The Proastiakos will be extended to Xylokastro west of Athens and Chalkida.\n\nAthens Tram SA operates a fleet of 35 Sirio type vehicles which serve 48 stations, employ 345 people with an average daily occupancy of 65,000 passengers. The tram network spans a total length of and covers ten Athenian suburbs. The network runs from Syntagma Square to the southwestern suburb of Palaio Faliro, where the line splits in two branches; the first runs along the Athens coastline toward the southern suburb of Voula, while the other heads toward the Piraeus district of Neo Faliro. The network covers the majority of the Saronic coastline. Further extensions are planned towards the major commercial port of Piraeus. The expansion to Piraeus will include 12 new stations, increase the overall length of tram route by , and increase the overall transportation network.\n\nAthens is served by the Athens International Airport (ATH), located near the town of Spata, in the eastern Messoghia plain, some east of Athens. The airport, awarded the \"European Airport of the Year 2004\" Award, is intended as an expandable hub for air travel in southeastern Europe and was constructed in 51 months, costing 2.2 billion euros. It employs a staff of 14,000.\n\nThe airport is served by the Metro, the suburban rail, buses to Piraeus port, Athens' city centre and its suburbs, and also taxis. The airport accommodates 65 landings and take-offs per hour, with its 24-passenger boarding bridges, 144 check-in counters and broader main terminal; and a commercial area of which includes cafés, duty-free shops, and a small museum.\n\nIn 2014, the airport handled 15,196,369 passengers, an increase of 21.2% over the previous year of 2013. Of those 15,196,369 passengers, 5,267,593 passed through the airport for domestic flights, and 9,970,006 passengers travelled through for international flights. Beyond the dimensions of its passenger capacity, ATH handled 205,294 total flights in 2007, or approximately 562 flights per day.\n\nAthens is the hub of the country's national railway system (OSE), connecting the capital with major cities across Greece and abroad (Istanbul, Sofia and Bucharest).The Port of Piraeus connects Athens to the numerous Greek islands of the Aegean Sea, with ferries departing, while also serving the cruise ships that arrive.\n\nTwo main motorways of Greece begin in Athens, namely the A1/E75, which crosses through Athens's Urban Area from Piraeus, heading north towards Greece's second largest city, Thessaloniki; and the A8/E94 heading west, towards Patras, which incorporated the GR-8A. Before their completion much of the road traffic used the GR-1 and the GR-8.\n\nAthens' Metropolitan Area is served by the motorway network of the Attiki Odos toll-motorway (code: A6). Its main section extends from the western industrial suburb of Elefsina to Athens International Airport; while two beltways, namely the Aigaleo Beltway (A65) and the Hymettus Beltway (A64) serve parts of western and eastern Athens respectively. The span of the Attiki Odos in all its length is , making it the largest metropolitan motorway network in all of Greece.\n\nLocated on Panepistimiou Street, the old campus of the University of Athens, the National Library, and the Athens Academy form the \"Athens Trilogy\" built in the mid-19th century. Most of the university's workings have been moved to a much larger, modern campus located in the eastern suburb of Zografou. The second higher education institution in the city is the Athens Polytechnic School, found in Patission Street. This was the location where on 17 November 1973, more than 13 students were killed and hundreds injured inside the university during the Athens Polytechnic uprising, against the military junta that ruled the nation from 21 April 1967 until 23 July 1974.\n\nOther universities that lie within Athens are the Athens University of Economics and Business, the Panteion University, the Agricultural University of Athens and the University of Piraeus. There are overall eleven state-supported Institutions of Higher (or Tertiary) education located in the Metropolitan Area of Athens, these are by chronological order: Athens School of Fine Arts (1837), National Technical University of Athens (1837), National and Kapodistrian University of Athens (1837), Agricultural University of Athens (1920), Athens University of Economics and Business (1920), Panteion University of Social and Political Sciences (1927), University of Piraeus (1938), Technological Educational Institute of Piraeus (1976), Technological Educational Institute of Athens (1983), Harokopio University (1990), School of Pedagogical and Technological Education (2002). There are also several other private \"colleges\", as they called formally in Greece, as the establishment of private universities is prohibited by the constitution. Many of them are accredited by a foreign state or university such as the American College of Greece and the Athens Campus of the University of Indianapolis.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5704525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5704525", "title": "Basler Läckerli", "text": "Basler Läckerli\n\nThe Basler Läckerli (also Leckerli or Läggerli, \"lecker\" meaning \"delicious\" in German and \"-li\" being a diminutive suffix) is a traditional hard spice biscuit originating from Basel, Switzerland. It is made of honey, hazelnuts, almonds, candied peel, and Kirsch. The flat baked dough is, when still hot, cut into rectangular pieces. It is then topped with a sugar glaze.\n\nBasler Läckerli were originally created by local spice merchants over 700 years ago and is available year-round.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "105402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105402", "title": "Buffalo wing", "text": "Buffalo wing\n\nA Buffalo wing, in the cuisine of the United States, is an unbreaded chicken wing section (flat or drumette) that is generally deep-fried then coated and/or dipped in a sauce consisting of a vinegar-based cayenne pepper hot sauce and melted butter prior to serving. The Buffalo wing was invented in 1964 at Anchor Bar in Buffalo, New York by Teressa Bellissimo. They are generally served hot, along with celery sticks and/or carrot sticks with blue cheese dressing for dipping. \nBuffalo wings have gained in popularity in the United States and abroad, with some North American restaurant chains featuring them as a main menu item. The name \"Buffalo\" is now also applied to other spiced fried foods served with dipping sauces, including boneless chicken \"fingers\", chicken fries, chicken nuggets, popcorn chicken, and shrimp. It also describes other dishes, such as pizza, that are seasoned with the Buffalo-style sauce or a Buffalo flavor seasoning.\n\nThere are several different claims about the invention of Buffalo wings. One of the claims is that Buffalo wings were first prepared at the Anchor Bar in Buffalo, New York, by Teressa Bellissimo, who owned the bar with husband Frank in 1964. At the time chicken wings were inexpensive and undesirable, primarily being used for stock or soup.\n\nSeveral versions of the story of the invention of the Buffalo wing have been circulated by the Bellissimo family and others including:\n\n\nAlthough an article published about the Anchor Bar in a local newspaper during 1969 does not mention Buffalo wings, a local competitor of the Anchor Bar, Duff's Famous Wings, began selling Buffalo wings in that year.\n\n\nIn 1977 the city of Buffalo issued an official proclamation celebrating Anchor Bar co-owner Frank Bellissimo declared July 29, 1977 to be Chicken Wing Day. Throughout the 1970s and 1980s Buffalo wings gained in popularity as a bar food and appetizer across the United States and Canada. Large franchises specializing in Buffalo wings have emerged, notably Buffalo Wild Wings founded in 1982 and Hooter's in 1983. McDonald's began selling Mighty Wings as an optional item in 1990 at their restaurant locations in the United States. In 1994, following four Super Bowl appearances by the Buffalo Bills football team, the Domino's pizza chain added Buffalo wings to their national menu, followed by Pizza Hut the next year.\n\nAs the market for chicken wings became larger, restaurants began to create and use a variety of sauces in addition to buffalo sauce. Some of these new chicken wing sauces were influenced by Chinese, Japanese, Thai, Caribbean, and Indian cuisines. Other flavors created by restaurants include unique combinations, such as Blueberry BBQ Wing Sauce and Maple/Bacon Glaze for example, to help keep customer interest and grow their businesses. Because of the increased cost in the price of chicken wings, and a desire by some diners for a neater eating experience, restaurants began to offer a menu item called \"boneless wings,\" sometimes marketed under the name wyngz. Boneless wings are essentially small pieces of skinless, boneless chicken breast that are coated in flour and spices then fried or baked. They are usually coated in or served with similar sauces as chicken wings. The growth of popularity in recent years in Buffalo wing consumption and restaurants serving wings have led to actual and perceived shortages of chicken wings in the United States during certain times.\n\nIn many areas of the United States chicken wing festivals are held with Buffalo wings being used in competitive eating events, such as at Philadelphia's Wing Bowl and the National Buffalo Wing Festival. It has also become commonplace for restaurants to offer a wing eating contest featuring a customer eating a certain number of wings, coated in their hottest sauce during a set period of time. Many bars and restaurants intentionally create an extra-hot sauce for this purpose, and customers are usually rewarded with their picture posted on the restaurant's wall or website, a commemorative T-shirt, a free meal or a combination of rewards for successfully completing the challenge.\n\nThe chicken wings used for Buffalo wings are usually segmented into three parts with the end section of the wing, called the flapper or pointer, being discarded. Typically, the wings are deep-fried in oil, without breading or flour until they are well browned. Alternatively, they may be baked, grilled, or broiled.\n\nCayenne pepper, hot sauce and melted butter or margarine are the base of the Buffalo wing sauce, which may be made mild, medium, or hot. Commercial ready-to-use wing sauce is made with varying levels of spiciness. The cooked chicken wings are placed in a bowl or pot and shaken to coat the wings completely covering them in sauce before serving.\n\nTraditionally, Buffalo wings are usually served with small sticks of celery and blue cheese dipping sauce on the side. sliced carrots or whole baby carrots are often served with buffalo wings rather than the usual sides.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25870882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25870882", "title": "Center for China and Globalization", "text": "Center for China and Globalization\n\nThe Center for China and Globalization (CCG) is a leading Chinese independent think tank based in Beijing. It is dedicated to the study of Chinese public policy and globalization, and conducts research in a wide range of social science disciplines, including global migration, foreign relations, international talent development, foreign trade and investment, homegrown MNCs and global governance.\n\nFounded in 2008 by two prominent Chinese scholars, Dr. Wang Huiyao and Dr. Miao Lu, CCG has grown into the largest independent think tank in China with headquarters in Beijing and offices in Shanghai, Shenzhen, Guangzhou and Qingdao as well as representatives in major cities abroad, hiring nearly 100 in-house researchers and staff.\n\nThe think tank is co-chaired by three eminent Chinese: Long Yongtu, former Vice Minister of the Chinese Ministry of Commerce and chief negotiator for China’s accession into the WTO; He Yafei, former Vice Minister of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Ronnie Chen, Hong Kong tycoon and philanthropist. The advisory board represents a constellation of prominent figures from academia, business and policy-making communities at home and abroad.\n\nAccording to the “2017 Global Go To Think Tank Index” by the University of Pennsylvania Think Tank and Civil Society Program (TTCSP), CCG ranked 91th of the top think tanks worldwide. The TTCSP along with several Chinese academic institutions rank CCG as China’s premier independent think tank.\n\nCCG specializes in the research pertaining to Chinese development in relation to globalization. The main subjects include:\n\nThe research on global talent focuses on the development of Chinese and international talent, as well as the role of “returnees” on China’s economic and social progress, such as:\n\n• Migration\n\n• Studying abroad\n\n• Returnees\n\n• Global talent\n\n• Overseas Chinese\n\n• Talent mobility\n\nCCG contributes to the study of Chinese companies “going abroad” on the topics such as:\n\n• Enterprise internationalization\n\n• Cultivation of Global Talent\n\n• Multinational Companies in China\n\n• Belt and Road Initiative\n\nChina is becoming a global player with its increasing influence in the Asia Pacific, Africa, and Latin America. CCG conducts research on China’s role in international affairs from economic, strategic and cultural aspects.\n\n• Regional Integration\n\n• Bilateral Relations\n\n• Public Diplomacy\n\nChinese cities that are undergoing urbanization drives need to attract foreign talent to help support their economic growth. CCG conducts research on China’s urbanization process, as well as challenges facing Chinese cities, such as air pollution, sanitation, and water safety.\n\n• Sustainable Development\n\nCCG’s research on education focuses on cultural integration and creation of an international educational community. We analyze how innovation impacts society and education, and identify the challenges and solution to promoting education innovation in China.\n\nCCG publications include the monthly journals, China and Globalization Research, Policy Advisory Report and also the CCG Newsletter. CCG also issues reports of its major conferences and main activities. Articles also frequently appear in leading national and international magazines and newspapers such as the Financial Times and China Daily.\n\nIn June 2008, CCG participated in a long-term national talent planning research study in collaboration with the Chinese Ministry of Organization. CCG's specific area of focus was in International Talent Strategy and the center published a comprehensive report of their findings. The report analyzed China's situation in terms of competing for international talent, and included research on recent accomplishments, potentially sustainable competitive advantages and also existing problems. From this research it was possible to submit a series of policy-making recommendations.\n\nOn 3 September 2009, CCG experts were invited by the State Council Overseas Chinese Office to take part in the “Chinese Green Card and Visa Issue Roundtable”. Wang Huiyao, Director General of Center for China & Globalization delivered a report on this issue that offers advice and suggestions for improving the global movements of talent.\n\nThe Annual Report on Chinese Talent Educated Abroad covers 60 years of Chinese talent educated overseas.\n\nThe Contemporary Chinese Returnees is a research series of returned Chinese scholars comprising eight books. Books in this series include Reflections of 100 Chinese Returnees, Move on Wall Street and Contemporary Chinese Returnees.\n\nThis book by Wang Huiyao investigates a global \"war\" that has been fought for over 60 years for international talent. While this conflict does not involve bullets or soldiers, it has an unimaginable impact on the development of a nation. Wang Huiyao contends that a country's ability to develop and then retain its talent, will determine its future in the 21st century.\n\nDreams from My Father is a memoir by the 44th President of the United States, Barack Obama. It was first published in 1995 after Obama was elected the first African-American president of the Harvard Law Review, before his political career began. The CCG translated this book into Chinese and since then this copy of Obama's autobiography has sold over 250,000 copies in China.\n\nCCG hosts events in a range of sizes, including regular round-table and panel discussions as well as large-scale conferences being held in major cities across China.\n"}
{"id": "35594603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35594603", "title": "Chadian passport", "text": "Chadian passport\n\nThe Chadian passport is issued to citizens of Chad for international travel. The Chadian passport is written in three languages; French, English and Arabic.\n\nAs of 1 January 2017, Chadian citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 51 countries and territories, ranking the Chadian passport 85th in terms of travel freedom (tied with Bhutanese, Chinese, Malian and Rwandan passports) according to the Henley visa restrictions index.\n\nOn 24 September 2017, citizens of Chad who held Chadian passports were banned from entering the United States of America. The reason was that Chadian authorities had run out of passport paper and were unable to submit sample passports to American authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "7316386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7316386", "title": "Communities Liaison Committee", "text": "Communities Liaison Committee\n\nThe Communities Liaison Committee (CLC) was established in 1949 by the British rulers of Malaysia, comprising the top echelon of Malayan politicians from different communities, to address sensitive issues, especially those related to ethnicity. Compromises on a number of issues, including citizenship, education, democracy, and Malay supremacy, were agreed on and set the stage for Malayan independence. The CLC was chaired by Malcolm MacDonald, the British Commissioner-General for Southeast Asia.\n\nThe Communities Liaison Committee was a prototype for multiracial political cooperation.\n\n"}
{"id": "29595289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29595289", "title": "Corca Fhir Trí", "text": "Corca Fhir Trí\n\nThe Corca Fhir Trí were an Irish people located in the kingdom of Gailenga (later the barony of Gallen, County Mayo), Luighne Connacht and Corann (baronys of Leyney and Corann, County Sligo) in Gaelic Ireland.\n\nTwo kings of the Corca, Dobhailen mac Gormghus, (died 885) and his son, Uathmarán mac Dobhailéin (died 920), were successive Kings of Luighne Connacht. Dobhailen was the eponym of the clan Ó Dobhailen of Connacht. Later kings of the Corca descended from him included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23565246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23565246", "title": "DD Urdu", "text": "DD Urdu\n\nDD Urdu is a state owned TV channel telecasting from Doordarshan Kendra in Delhi. Main aim for DD Urdu channel is to spread Urdu language between Indian citizens as this language is one of 18 listed language by Indian Government. Head office of DD Urdu is in New Delhi near Mandi House metro station. Broadcasting availability of DD Urdu is in India and parts of Asia, China and Gulf Countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37062145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37062145", "title": "Defrage", "text": "Defrage\n\nDefrage is an Estonian metal and rock band formed in 2007. \n\nThe band has done numerous gigs in Estonia and won the MTV Eesti Award for Best Music Video in 2009 for \"Save Us From Religion\". They are also known for selling their album in parking lots to raise money for their tours. \n\nDefrage started to have their first band rehearsals in early 2007 when Kari (rhythm guitarist) got a response from Mikk (solo guitarist) to his advertisement on the website metal.ee \"looking for a band members for an American style rock band\". Soon after that Daniel (in early years bass guitar) and Sten (drums) joined for rehearsals which mainly took place in an old garage that belonged to Mikk's father. In the beginning the band just played and practiced together without any singer whom Kari looked for at the same time.\n\nThe band filmed a video for \"Hotel Breakers\" and released their album \"Jackal\" in January 2012.\n\nAfter one year of touring in Europe, Defrage released their second album \"The Sick Letter\" in May 2013. Defrage performed on one of Europe's minor rock festivals called Nova Rock, which takes place every June in Austria.\n\nDefrage disbanded sometime in 2014, before the creation of a new band called Illumenium, which includes former Defrage members Kari Kärner, Andre Kaldas and Kevin Presmann.. The new band continues with some previous Defrage songs, including \"The Sick Letter\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13773503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13773503", "title": "Del Carreto", "text": "Del Carreto\n\ndel Carreto, Baron of Racalmuto were the descendents of Constanzia di Chiaramonte (1290 - 1350) the heiress and daughter of Federico di Chiaramonte, Lord of Racalmuto a member of the prominent Sicilian Chiaramonte family. Constanzia married Antonio del Carretto on 11 November 1307. This marriage unified the del Caretto and Chiaramonte families bringing to the family the ancient Racalmuto titles. For the following two centuries the del Carretto and Racalmuto names were united.\n\nConstanzia died at Girgenti in 1350.\n"}
{"id": "37532035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37532035", "title": "Democracia (Tangier)", "text": "Democracia (Tangier)\n\nDemocracia (\"English: Democracy\") was a Spanish language Republican weekly newspaper published from Tangier, Morocco. The office of \"Democracia\" was located at Petit Socco.\n\nOn 27 December 1936 the offices of \"Democracia\" was attacked by a large group of Italian sailors, who vandalised the building and threatened to kill the editor. Returning from the attack, they sang the fascist hymn \"Giovinezza\". The attack was interpreted at the time as indicative of the Italian support for Francisco Franco's revolt against the government in Madrid.\n"}
{"id": "27743392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27743392", "title": "Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Company", "text": "Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Company\n\nThe Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Company (EGAS) is an Egyptian state-owned holding company, which owns and manages state stakes in different gas project. The company was established in August 2001. EGAS is also responsible for issuing of natural gas exploration licenses in Egypt.\n\nIn 2014/2015, EGAS signed six agreements, of them three offshore areas in Mediterranean Sea and three onshore areas in Nile Delta. In February 2015, a bidding for twelve offshore blocks in Mediterranean Sea was announced.\n\nIn 2014/2015, gas production reached about and total local consumption of natural gas reached . Gas import started in April 2015, supplying to the national gas grid after the regasification with quantity of . In 2012/2013, total net gas production in Egypt reached .\n\nIn April 2016 Egyptian Oil Minister Tarek al-Molla replaced the Chairman of EGAS Khaled Abdel Badie by Mohamed Ali al-Masry who previously took place of the chairman of Egypt EPGC company.\n\n"}
{"id": "56423956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56423956", "title": "Erlöserbund", "text": "Erlöserbund\n\nThe Erlöserbund is a German Catholic convent founded in 1917 by Else Mayer and Alexandra Bischoff in Bonn.\n\nAt the time of its approbation by the archbishop Joseph Frings of Cologne in 1958 the content had 148 registered nuns in several Locations in Bonn, Breslau and other locations. Besides being a women convent the organization also supported women rights and helped women to get into schools and universities which was still unusual at the time.\n\nThe convent closed in 2005 and became a non for profit organization. In a yearly award ceremony in Bonn a stipend is give to several select women who are doing outstanding work in the area of women's rights, academia and religious studies.\n"}
{"id": "426362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426362", "title": "Free List (Liechtenstein)", "text": "Free List (Liechtenstein)\n\nThe Free List (, FL) is a centre-left political party in Liechtenstein. , it has three seats in the Landtag of Liechtenstein and is represented in six of the eleven local councils. It was founded in 1985 and describes itself as social-democratic and green.\n"}
{"id": "5309300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5309300", "title": "General Union of Workers (Portugal)", "text": "General Union of Workers (Portugal)\n\nThe General Union of Workers (UGT) is a national trade union center in Portugal. It was formed in 1978 and has a membership of 400,000. It is traditionally influenced by the Socialist Party.\n\nThe UGT is affiliated with the International Trade Union Confederation, and the European Trade Union Confederation.\n"}
{"id": "7468295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7468295", "title": "Geography of the Odyssey", "text": "Geography of the Odyssey\n\nEvents in the main sequence of the \"Odyssey\" (excluding the narrative of Odysseus's adventures) take place in the Peloponnese and in what are now called the Ionian Islands (Ithaca and its neighbours). Incidental mentions of Troy and its house, Phoenicia, Egypt, and Crete hint at geographical knowledge equal to, or perhaps slightly more extensive than that of the \"Iliad\". However, scholars both ancient and modern are divided as to whether or not any of the places visited by Odysseus (after Ismaros and before his return to Ithaca) were real.\n\nThe geographer Strabo and many others came down squarely on the skeptical side: he reported what the great geographer Eratosthenes had said in the late third century BCE: \"You will find the scene of Odysseus's wanderings when you find the cobbler who sewed up the bag of winds.\"\n\nThe journey of Telemachus to Pylos and Sparta no longer raises geographical problems. The location of Nestor's Pylos was disputed in antiquity; towns named Pylos were found in Elis, Triphylia and Messenia, and each claimed to be Nestor's home. Strabo (8.3), citing earlier writers, argued that Homer meant Triphylian Pylos. Modern scholarship, however, generally locates Nestor's Pylos in Messenia. The presence of Mycenaean ruins at the archaeological site of Ano Englianos, or Palace of Nestor, have greatly strengthened this view. The Linear B tablets found at the site indicate that the site was called \"Pu-ro\" (\"Pylos\") by its inhabitants.\n\nThe geographical references in the \"Odyssey\" to Ithaca and its neighbors seem confused and have given rise to much scholarly argument, beginning in ancient times. Odysseus's Ithaca is usually identified with the island traditionally called \"Thiaki\" and now officially renamed Ithake, but some scholars have argued that Odysseus's Ithaca is actually Leucas, and others identify it with the whole or part of Cephalonia. Lately, Robert Bittlestone, in his book \"Odysseus Unbound\", has identified the Paliki peninsula on Cephalonia with Homeric Ithaca.\n\nThe geography of the \"Apologoi\" (the tale that Odysseus told to the Phaeacians, forming books 9-12 of the \"Odyssey\"), and the location of the Phaeacians' own island of Scheria, pose quite different problems from those encountered in identifying Troy, Mycenae, Pylos and Ithaca.\n\nFor these reasons, the opinions of later students and scholars about the geography of Odysseus's travels vary enormously. It has repeatedly been argued that each successive landfall, and the routes joining them, are real and can be mapped; it has been argued with equal conviction that they do not exist in the real world and never can be mapped.\n\nAncient sources provide a wealth of interpretations of Odysseus' wanderings, with a complex range of traditions which affect one another in various ways. Broadly speaking there are two dominant trends. One is that of Euhemerist accounts, which re-wrote mythical stories without their fantastic elements, and were often seen as thereby recovering \"historical\" records. The other reflects the conventions of foundation myths, whereby stories of a city or institution being founded in the course of Odysseus' travels often came to have political significance.\n\nSome identifications are common to both groups. The main distinctions between them are in how the identifications were passed down through the generations, and the uses to which they were put. The most standard identifications, which are rarely disputed in ancient sources, are\n\n\nEuhemerist accounts are generally those found in writers on antiquarian subjects, geographers, scholars, and historians. The most important ancient sources are the 1st century geographer Strabo, who is our source for information on Eratosthenes' and Polybius' investigations into the matter; and the novelisation of the Trojan War that goes under the name of Dictys of Crete, which many later writers treated as an authentic historical record of the war.\n\nThe prototypes for this tradition are in the 5th century BC. Herodotus identifies the land of the lotus-eaters as a headland in the territory of the Gindanes tribe in Libya, and Thucydides reports the standard identifications mentioned above. Herodotus and Thucydides do not actively euhemerise, but simply take local myths at face value for the political importance they had at the time.\n\nEuhemerist accounts become more prominent in Alexandrian scholarship of the Hellenistic period. Callimachus identifies Scheria as Corcyra, and also identifies Calypso's island with Gaudos (modern Gozo, part of Malta). His student Apollonius of Rhodes also identifies Scheria as Corcyra in his epic the \"Argonautica\".\n\nApollonius' successor as head of the library of Alexandria, Eratosthenes, wrote a detailed investigation into Odysseus' wanderings. Eratosthenes takes a cynical view, regarding Homer as an entertainer, not an educator: \"You will find the scene of the wanderings of Odysseus when you find the cobbler who sewed up the bag of the winds.\" This does not mean that he refuses any and all identifications. He conjectures that Hesiod's information about the wanderings (see below on Hesiod) came from historical inquiries that Hesiod had made. The 2nd century BC poet-historian Apollodorus of Athens sympathises with Eratosthenes, believing that Homer imagined the wanderings as having taken place in a kind of fairyland in the Atlantic; he actively criticises the standard identifications in and around Sicily, and refuses to offer any identifications of his own.\n\nThe 2nd century BC historian Polybius discusses the wanderings in book 34 of his history. He refutes Apollodorus' idea that the wanderings were in the Atlantic on the basis of \"Odyssey\" 9.82, where Odysseus says that he sailed for nine days from Cape Malea in the Peloponnese to the land of the lotus-eaters: it would take much longer than nine days to reach the Atlantic. He accepts the standard identifications around Sicily, and is the earliest source to identify Scylla and Charybdis explicitly with the Strait of Messina. He also identifies the land of the lotus-eaters as the island of Djerba (ancient Meninx), off the coast of Tunisia. Polybius is the most euhemerist source to this date: he justifies the description of Aeolus in the \"Odyssey\" as \"king of the winds\" on the grounds that Aeolus \"taught navigators how to steer a course in the regions of the Strait of Messina, whose waters are ... difficult to navigate\", and insists that the mythical elements in the wanderings are insignificant in comparison to the historical core.\n\nStrabo, living in the late 1st century BC and early 1st century AD, says that he tries to strike a balance between reading Homer as an entertainer and as a historical source. He is Euhemerist to the extent that he believes that any hypothesis at all, no matter how outrageous, is more plausible than saying \"I don't know\"; in this regard he accepts Polybius' arguments completely. Strabo offers the most detailed surviving set of identifications:\n\n\nPlutarch agrees with Strabo on the location of Calypso's island of Ogygia in the Atlantic, and specifically west of Britain. He also repeats what Plato had described as a continent on the opposite side of the Atlantic ( North America ? ), and he adds that from this continent Ogygia was about 900 kilometres / 558 miles distant. Plutarch's account of Ogygia has created a lot of controversy as to whether he was referring to a real or a mythical place. Kepler in his \"“Kepleri Astronomi Opera Omnia”\" estimated that “the great continent” was America and attempted to locate Ogygia and the surrounding islands. G. Mair in 1909 proposed that the knowledge of America came from Carthaginian sailors who had reached the Gulf of Mexico. Hamilton in 1934 indicated the similarities of Plutarch's account and Plato's location of Atlantis on the Timaeus, 24E - 25A.\n\nOther sources offer miscellaneous details. The \"Library\" wrongly attributed to Apollodorus summarises most of the accounts given above. Aristonicus, a contemporary of Strabo's, wrote a monograph \"On the wanderings of Menelaus\", which influenced Strabo's own discussion.\n\nFinally, the \"Ephemeris\" attributed to Dictys of Crete, who claims to have been present at the Trojan War, was probably written in the 1st century CE or perhaps a little earlier. It falls into a tradition of anti-Homeric literature, based on the supposition that Homer got most things about the Trojan War wrong by making virtuous people look like villains, and vice versa. It is important because later historians took Dictys as a historical record, including Sisyphus of Cos, John Malalas, George Cedrenus, John of Antioch, and others. Many Western mediaeval writers also accepted Dictys (in the Latin summary by Lucius Septimius) as the definitive account of the Trojan War.\n\nAccording to Dictys, Odysseus fled from Troy after being accused of murdering Aias. He first went north to the Black Sea for a while; he sacked the Ciconian town of Ismarus in Thrace on his way back. After visiting the lotus-eaters he went to Sicily, where he encountered three (or four) brothers, Antiphates, Cyclops, and Polyphemus (and possibly Laestrygon, according to Septimius), who each ruled a portion of the island. Odysseus and his men were mistreated by each of these kings in turn. Notably, they were imprisoned by Polyphemus when one of Odysseus' men fell in love with Polyphemus' daughter (Arene or Elpe) and tried to kidnap her; but they escaped. They passed through the Aeolian Islands, but the surviving accounts of Dictys do not give specific locations for the rest of the wanderings. Malalas' account of Dictys, however, tells us that Circe and Calypso were sisters ruling over neighbouring islands; that Odysseus visited a lake called Nekyopompos (\"guide of the dead\") near the sea, whose inhabitants were seers; that he passed some rocks called the Seirenidai; and Cedrenus' account seems to identify Scheria with Corfu, or at least an island near Ithaca.\n\nNumerous places in Italy and northern Greece also had aetiological legends about cities and other institutions founded by Odysseus on his various travels. Among these foundation myths the continuation of Odysseus's travels told in the \"Telegony\" is at least as important as the wanderings reported in the \"Odyssey\".\n\nThe earliest record of a foundation myth connecting Odysseus with Italy is the lines surviving in Hesiod's \"Theogony\" (1011ff.), which report that Odysseus and Circe had two sons Agrius and Latinus, who ruled over the Etruscans (\"Tyrsenoi\"). Latinus is an important figure in many early Italian myths. The lines are not in fact Hesiodic, but they are probably no later than the 6th century BC.\n\nE.D. Phillips gives a very full treatment of myths that placed Odysseus and Telegonus, his son by Circe, in Italy.\n\nThe view that Odysseus's landfalls are best treated as imaginary places is probably held by the majority of classical scholars today.\n\nThe modern Greek Homerist Ioannis Kakridis may be compared with Eratosthenes in his approach to the problem. He argued that the Odyssey is a work of poetry and not a travel log. To attempt a quick outline of Kakridis's views, it is useless to try to locate the places mentioned in Odysseus' narrative on the map; we cannot confuse the narrative of Odyssey with history unless we believe in the existence of gods, giants and monsters. Kakridis admits that one may indeed ask what real locations inspired these imaginary places, but one must always bear in mind that geography is not the main concern either of Odysseus (as narrator) or of the poet. Similarly, Merry and Riddell, in their late 19th century school edition of the \"Odyssey\", state the following opinion: \"Throughout these books [books 9-12] we are in a wonderland, which we shall look in vain for on the map\". W. B. Stanford in his mid 20th century edition comments as follows on book 9 lines 80-81 (where Odysseus says that he met storms off Cape Malea near the island of Cythera): \"These are the last clearly identifiable places in O.'s wanderings. After this he leaves the sphere of Geography and enters Wonderland ...\" Thereafter, while frequently referring to ancient opinions on the location of Odysseus's adventures, Stanford makes little or no reference to modern theories.\n\nRobin Lane Fox observes of Euboean Greek settlements in Sicily and Italy, \"During their first phase in the West, c. 800-740, stories of mythical heroes were not already sited at points along the coast of Italy or Sicily. It was only later that such stories became located there, as if mythical heroes had been driven westward or fled from Asia while leaving the sack of Troy.\" The heroic legends, including an Odyssean geography, served to attach newly founded western communities \"to a prestigious ancestry in the Greeks' mythical past.\" Fox notes that even Circe found a home on \"Monte Circeo\" between Rome and Cumae: \"but this association began at the earliest in the later sixth century BC. The Etruscan king Tarquin the Proud (\"c.\" 530-510) was credited with the settlement and in due course the very 'cup' of Odysseus was shown at the site.\"\n\nBy contrast with these views, some recent scholars, travelers and armchair travelers have tried to map Odysseus's travels. Modern opinions are so varied in detail that for convenience they need to be classified, as do the ancient ones. This article deals first with those who believe, as did many ancient authors, that the hero of the \"Odyssey\" was driven west or south-west from Cape Malea and, more than nine years later, returned from the west to his native Ionian islands: his landfalls are therefore to be found in the western Mediterranean.\n\nFor a long time the most detailed study of Odysseus's travels was that of the French Homeric scholar Victor Bérard. Although adopting the general frame of reference of the ancient commentators, Bérard differed from them in some details. For Bérard the land of the Lotus-Eaters was Djerba off southern Tunisia; the land of the Cyclopes was at Posillipo in Italy; the island of Aeolus was Stromboli; the Laestrygonians were in northern Sardinia; Circe's home was Monte Circeo in Lazio; the entrance to the Underworld was near Cumae, just where Aeneas found it in the \"Aeneid\"; the Sirens were on the coast of Lucania; Scylla and Charybdis were at the Strait of Messina; the Island of the Sun was Sicily; the homeland of Calypso was at the Straits of Gibraltar. From there Odysseus's route took him to Scherie, which Bérard, like so many of his ancient predecessors, identified with Corcyra.\n\nBérard's views were taken as standard in the 1959 \"Atlas of the Classical World\" by A. A. M. van der Heyden and H. H. Scullard. They were adopted in whole or in part by several later writers. Michel Gall, for example, followed Bérard throughout except that he placed the Laestrygonians in southern Corsica. Ernle Bradford had meanwhile added some new suggestions: the land of the Cyclopes was around Marsala in western Sicily; the island of Aeolus was Ustica off Sicily; Calypso was on Malta. The Obregons, in \"Odysseus Airborne\", follow Bradford in some identifications but add several of their own. The Lotus Eaters are in the Gulf of Sidra; the Cyclops and Aeolus are both to be found in the Balearic Isles; the island of Circe is Ischia in the Bay of Naples; most unexpectedly, Scherie is Cyprus.\n\nTranslator Samuel Butler developed a controversial theory that the \"Odyssey\" came from the pen of a young Sicilian woman, who presents herself in the poem as Nausicaa, and that the scenes of the poem reflected the coast of Sicily, especially the territory of Trapani and its nearby islands. He described the \"evidence\" for this theory in his \"The Authoress of the Odyssey\" (1897) and in the introduction and footnotes to his prose translation of the \"Odyssey\" (1900). Robert Graves elaborated on this hypothesis in his novel \"Homer's Daughter\".\n\nA minority view is that the landfalls of Odysseus were inspired by places on a much shorter itinerary along the coast of Greece itself. One of the earliest to suggest any locations here was the 2nd century AD geographer Pausanias who, in his \"Description of Greece\", suggested that the nekyia took place at the river Acheron in north west Greece, where the Necromanteion was subsequently built. However the location was overlooked or dismissed by many subsequently, until the archaeologist Sotirios Dakaris excavated the site, beginning in 1958. He found evidence of sacrifices to the dead that matched Homer's description of those made by Odyssesus. Subsequently, the location was accepted by others as that described by Homer.\n\nWorking on the assumption that the discoveries at the Acheron could challenge the traditional assumptions about the \"Odyssey\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s geography, Tim Severin sailed a replica Greek sailing vessel (originally built for his attempt to retrace the steps of Jason and the Argonauts) along the \"natural\" route from Troy to Ithaca, following the sailing directions that could be teased out of the \"Odyssey\". Along the way he found locations at the natural turning and dislocation points which, he claimed, agreed with the text much more closely than the usual identifications. However, he also came to the conclusion that the sequence of adventures from Circe onwards derived from a separate itinerary to the sequence that ended with the Laestrygonians and was possibly derived from the stories of the Argonauts. He placed many of the later episodes on the north west Greek coast, near the Acheron. Along the way he found on the map Cape Skilla (at the entrance to the Ambracian Gulf) and other names that implied traditional links with the \"Odyssey\". Severin agrees with the common opinion that the Lotus Eaters are in North Africa (although he placed them in modern Libya rather than Tunisia) and that Scherie is Corcyra.\n\nA key part of Severin's thesis is that whilst the text of the \"Odyssey\" contains many place names to the east and south of Greece, there are very few identifiable references to places to the west. As a result, he questions whether the western Mediterranean was known about at the time the original legends emerged (which he estimated to be some centuries before Homer composed the poem) and so consequently he doubted whether the stories had their origins there. In addition he noted that the Acheron is marked on the map, but traditionally ignored, whilst in the \"Argonautica\" of Apollonius of Rhodes the Argonauts' home voyage took them into the Adriatic and Ionian Seas, corresponding to a north west Greek location for many of the later adventures.\n\nStrabo's opinion (mentioned above) that Calypso's island and Scherie were imagined by the poet as being \"in the Atlantic Ocean\" has had significant influence on modern theorists. Henriette Mertz, a 20th-century author, argued that Circe's island is Madeira, Calypso's island one of the Azores, and the intervening travels record a discovery of North America: Scylla and Charybdis are in the Bay of Fundy, Scherie in the Caribbean.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52248835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52248835", "title": "German Historical Institute Washington DC", "text": "German Historical Institute Washington DC\n\nThe German Historical Institute Washington DC is an institute of historical study based in Washington, D.C. It has been part of the Max Weber Stiftung: Deutsche Geisteswissenschaftliche Institute im Ausland since 2002. The director is Simone Lässig.\n\n"}
{"id": "33260883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33260883", "title": "Gospodin Franjo", "text": "Gospodin Franjo\n\nGospodin Franjo is a novel by Slovenian author Fran Maselj - Podlimbarski. It was first published in 1913. The author incorporates an overt message in support of Yugoslav union by having his protagonist sympathize with Slovenian culture and come to hate the boorish occupiers in Austrian-occupied Bosnia. \n\n"}
{"id": "33281342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33281342", "title": "Gypsy (2011 film)", "text": "Gypsy (2011 film)\n\nGypsy () is a 2011 Slovakian drama film directed by Martin Šulík. The film was selected as the Slovak entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 84th Academy Awards, but it did not make the final shortlist.\n\n\nIn July 2011, the film was first released at the 46th Karlovy Vary International Film Festival, where it was nominated for the Crystal Globe, it won the Special Jury Prize, the Don Quijote Award, the Label Europa Cinemas award, and Jan Mizigar received a Special Mention for his role in the film. Thereafter it won 6 more awards and 9 nominations in various international film festivals.\n\n"}
{"id": "28492965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28492965", "title": "Headnoise (film)", "text": "Headnoise (film)\n\nHeadnoise () is a Slovenian feature film by the director Andrej Košak, featuring Jernej Šugman in the main role. It was released in 2002. It was edited by Jurij Moškon, who received the Best Cinematography Award at the Cologne Mediterranean Film Festival for it.\n\nThe film was selected as a Slovenian submission to the 75th Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film, but didn't get nominated.\n\n"}
{"id": "28650687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28650687", "title": "Highlands Herald", "text": "Highlands Herald\n\nThe Highlands Herald is a newspaper in the town of Waterval Boven, Mpumalanga, in South Africa. It was founded in 1997.\n\nThe paper has not appear in print neither has its blog/site been updated since March 2012.\n"}
{"id": "22417088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22417088", "title": "Hiru FM", "text": "Hiru FM\n\nHiru FM is a radio station in Sri Lanka, which is a privately owned Sinhala radio station in Sri Lanka by \"ABC Radio Networks\" started in 1998. It covers whole island. The network currently runs sister stations \"Sooriyan FM\" in Tamil and \"Gold FM and Sun FM\" in English. \n"}
{"id": "23308138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23308138", "title": "Ilkley Playhouse", "text": "Ilkley Playhouse\n\nIlkley Playhouse is a live theatre in Ilkley, England. It is owned and run by Ilkley Players Ltd a not-for-profit charitable organisation. Ilkley Playhouse is run by an Executive Committee and is staffed almost entirely by volunteers drawn from its membership.\n\nIlkley Playhouse is dedicated to the presentation of live amateur theatre and other arts activities within the community and welcomes members and visitors to a season of eight main-house and two studio productions per annum, plus many other events including touring productions and special events. It also hosts community arts events such as the Ilkley Film Society and the Ilkley Literature Festival. Ilkley Players Ltd is a member of the Little Theatre Guild of Great Britain. (LTG)\n\nThe Ilkley Playhouse also runs Greenroom classes for younger students who annually perform their \nown production.\n\n"}
{"id": "21252408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21252408", "title": "Ishq FM", "text": "Ishq FM\n\nIshq FM, branded as Ishq 104.8 FM, (formerly Meow FM and OYE FM) is a romantic music FM Radio Channel in India that broadcasts in the major cities: Delhi, Mumbai, & Kolkata.\nIt was initially launched as Meow FM, which was a talk-based channel and served Delhi, Indore, Mumbai and Kolkata. It is an India Today Group venture and its format was directed at a female audience. The channel got noticed for its catchy advertisement on BEST buses. It had also introduced \"Meri Meow\", a social network for its fans.\nIn September 2010 the channel had changed its name to OYE-FM and programming to a Filmi format. In December 2016 it rechristened to the current avatar of ISHQ 104.8 FM. \n\nIshq FM is India's first Romantic Radio Station airing over the FM frequency of 104.8 MHz. It airs era-agnostic Bollywood blockbusters from the romantic genre 24x7. The station’s catchy jingle \"DO THE ISHQ, Baby” has been composed by Sachin-Jigar.\n\nThe brand will have a target audience of 25-34 year. \n\n"}
{"id": "4155846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4155846", "title": "Kavass", "text": "Kavass\n\nA kavass or cavass is a Turkish name for an armed police-officer, also for a courier or guide such as it is usual to engage when travelling in Turkey.\n\nThe name is used, inter alia, for the guards that traditionally preserve public order at the important worship spots of the Holy Land (formerly under Ottoman Turkey jurisdiction), such as the Holy Sepulcher in Jerusalem and the Nativity Church in Bethlehem. \n"}
{"id": "20898132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20898132", "title": "Kumbo tribe", "text": "Kumbo tribe\n\nThe Kumbo tribe (Kumbowei) of the Ijaw people lives in southern Delta State and northern Bayelsa State, Nigeria. The major town of Sagbama is the tribal seat. Other important Kumbo settlements include: Agoloma, Apeleibiri, Angiama. Despite being located close to one another, Kumbo towns enjoy a great deal of autonomy from central tribal authority.<br>\n"}
{"id": "58081005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58081005", "title": "L'empire de la honte", "text": "L'empire de la honte\n\nL'empire de la honte, (The Empire of Shame) is a book by Swiss sociologist and former United Nations special correspondent for the right to food (until 2008) Jean Ziegler in which he elaborates on the concept of structural violence due to organized scarcity of food, caused by neoliberalist capitalism.\n\n"}
{"id": "52143385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52143385", "title": "Living monument", "text": "Living monument\n\nLiving monument (, is commemorations to the victims of past war in the former Yugoslavia organizated by Association for Social Research and Communications.\n\nLiving monument is Edvin Kanka Cudic's idea of dealing with the past marking the anniversary of the crime, \"disturbing\" and recalling, so the public condemn the crime. In this way, the crime is visible in public, activists build monument with their body and show that the monument is built by the human body and thinking about the crime.\n\nLiving monument builds up in front of the Sacret Heart Cathedral in Sarajevo. Besides Sarajevo, UDIK built Living monument in other cities and towns, such as Ahmici Banja Luka Belgrade, Bijeljina, Brcko,Višegrad, Zagreb, Priboj, Prijepolje, Srebrenica, Tuzla, Foca and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "6081332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6081332", "title": "Ministry of Public Finance (Romania)", "text": "Ministry of Public Finance (Romania)\n\nThe Ministry of Public Finance of Romania () is one of the fifteen ministries of the Government of Romania.\n\nThe minister's seat is currently held by Eugen Orlando Teodorovici.\n\nThe following agencies are subordinated to the Minister:\n\n"}
{"id": "12479758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12479758", "title": "National Highway 6 (Cambodia)", "text": "National Highway 6 (Cambodia)\n\nNational Highway 6 or National Road No.6 (10006) is one of the national highways of Cambodia. It is long (including 6A), it connects the capital of Phnom Penh with Banteay Meanchey through Siem Reap on the north shore of the Tonlé Sap. It terminates merging into the National Highway 5.\n\nFrom Phnom Penh to the town of Skun (), where it connects with National Highway 7, the highway has been upgraded to dual carriageway and it bears the name of National Highway 6A.\n"}
{"id": "1706368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1706368", "title": "New Democratic Front (Botswana)", "text": "New Democratic Front (Botswana)\n\nThe New Democratic Front is a progressive political party in Botswana without parliamentary representation. Led by Dick Bayford, it split away from the Botswana National Front in 2003. It won 0.78% of the popular votes at the last elections. After its poor performance in the 2004 general elections the party has since joined forces with Botswana's third largest party Botswana Congress party.\n"}
{"id": "16656289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16656289", "title": "Radio 105 Network", "text": "Radio 105 Network\n\nRadio 105 Network is an Italian private radio station, owned by Mediaset, who also owns Virgin Radio Italia and Radio Monte Carlo. It was founded on 1976 as \"Radio Studio 105\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2934106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2934106", "title": "Radio Farda", "text": "Radio Farda\n\nRadio Farda is the Iranian branch of the U.S. government-funded \"Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty\" (RFE/RL) external broadcast service. It broadcasts 24 hours a day in the Persian language from its headquarters in the district Hagibor of Prague, Czech Republic,\n\nRadio Farda first aired December 2002. Radio Farda broadcasts political, cultural, social, and art news with an emphasis on Iran. The name \"Farda\" means \"tomorrow\" in Persian. Radio Farda's broadcasts have been continually blocked by Iranian authorities over the history of its programming.\n\nLaunched in December 2002 as the successor to RFE/RL's Persian Service, Radio Farda advances the goals of U.S. foreign policy providing what it claims is an \"objective and accurate news and information to counter state censorship and ideology-based media coverage\". Radio Farda's new website was launched in 2006 and receives over 3 million page views every month.\n\nJay Solomon of the Wall Street Journal published a feature story on the challenges Radio Farda faces from an increasingly repressive Iranian regime as well as those in Washington who seek a tougher line on Iran. A few challenges he highlights are Radio Farda journalists being unjustly convicted of crimes against the state, and millions of dollars spent on jamming Radio Farda broadcasts. He also goes into detail about the fine line Radio Farda must walk to present itself as objective and accurate news source to its audience even though it is congressionally funded through the Broadcasting Board of Governors.\n\nAn Iranian-American journalist working for Radio Farda, Parnaz Azima, was banned from leaving Iran after her trip to the country. She had entered Iran to visit her ailing mother. She was jailed in May 2007 and released in August. Her passport was returned to her on a 550,000 U.S. Dollar bail.\n\nAccording to Iason Athanasiadis of the \"Christian Science Monitor\", the Prague-headquartered Radio Farda was at first \"tolerated\" by the Islamic Republic, unlike \"the Washington-based Voice of America\", and \"regularly interviewed Iranian politicians\". However, on February 7, 2010, the public relations office of the Ministry of Intelligence announced the arrest of seven journalists described as \"elements of a counter-revolutionary Zionist satellite station\" and in the \"official pay\" of US intelligence organizations. They were later identified as working for the US-funded Radio Farda. Radio Farda's director, Armand Mostofi, told CNN it has no employees inside Iran.\n\nRadio Farda was established in 2003 as a joint effort of RFE/RL and Voice of America (VOA). In 2007, the Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG) decided to consolidate all of Radio Farda's operations under RFE/RL. Then in July 2008, RFE/RL assumed sole responsibility for all Radio Farda programming.\n\nIn 2009 Radio Farda's SMS system, Facebook and Twitter profiles were launched. Farda's audience sends thousands of voice, text and e-mail messages and comments frequently on the website and Facebook page. Radio Farda Facebook page has over 25,000 friends.\n\nFollowing two weeks of large-scale protests during the June 12th Iranian elections authorities severely restricted the broadcasts of RFE/RL's Persian Service.\n\nBeing one of the least free media environments in the world, Iran ranks 185th out of 195 in Freedom House's \"Freedom of the Press 2009\" report, behind countries like Sudan, Saudi Arabia, and Tajikistan. In the wake of mass public protests following June's disputed presidential elections, the Iranian government stepped up its efforts to control internet services and other forms of electronic communication, including broadcasts from Radio Farda, which remain illegal in the country.\n\nRadio Farda web editor Fred Petrossians won a media award from Think Social for an internet-based project he co-founded that seeks to spread awareness of bloggers' rights in Iran and other countries with unfree media.\n\nIranian-born Radio Farda journalist Ahmad Rafat, now a well-known reporter based in Italy, has been honored for his more than 30 years of work advocating press freedom and exposing human rights abuses. The 2008 Ilaria Alpi award was presented by the Italian chapter of Reporters Without Borders to Rafat at a June 7 ceremony in Riccione, Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "35018379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35018379", "title": "Radio Savannah", "text": "Radio Savannah\n\nRadio Savannah is a public radio station in Tamale, the capital town of the Northern region of Ghana. The station is owned and run by the state broadcaster - the Ghana Broadcasting Corporation.\n"}
{"id": "37178369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37178369", "title": "Radio Television of Djibouti", "text": "Radio Television of Djibouti\n\nRadio Television of Djibouti (RTD) (, ) is the national broadcaster of Djibouti.\n\nThe channel began broadcasting in the 1940s, during the colonial period in French Somaliland. In 1967, the Office of French Radio and Television (ORTF) installed a regional station overseas in Djibouti City. The city is today a center for broadcast media, with a number of radio and television stations airing from there.\n\nRadio Television of Djibouti is a general news and entertainment channel. It broadcasts in four languages: Somali, Afar, Arabic and French.\n\nThe broadcasting schedule is composed of news, cultural programs, series, entertainment and variety. Through Badr-6 satellite, the station's transmission can be received in North Africa, Europe, the Near and Middle East. Some of its programs are also streamed on the internet.\n\n"}
{"id": "18725124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18725124", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Mawlamyine", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Mawlamyine\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Mawlamyine (Lat: \"Diocesis Maulamyinensis\") is a diocese of the Latin Rite of the Roman Catholic Church in Burma. \n\nThe diocese was erected in 1993, from its metropolitan, the Archdiocese of Yangon. \n\nThe first and only bishop of the diocese is Raymond Saw Po Ray, appointed in 1993. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "48606215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48606215", "title": "Serbia in the Turkvision Song Contest", "text": "Serbia in the Turkvision Song Contest\n\nSerbia participated in the Turkvision Song Contest for the first time at the Turkvision Song Contest 2015, held in Istanbul, Turkey.\n\nOn 20 November 2015 it was confirmed that Serbia would make their official Turkvision Song Contest début at the 2015 contest to be held in Istanbul, Turkey. On 7 December 2015 it was announced that he will represent the Sandžak region of Serbia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47758745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47758745", "title": "Silknet", "text": "Silknet\n\nSilknet JSC is a telecommunication company in Georgia. Silknet delivers various telecom services to more than one million customers across the whole of Georgia. Silknet is the largest telecommunication company in Georgia and the entire Caucasus region. Silknet provides mobile communication (branches: Geocell and S1), cable internet (branches: SilkOptic and DSL), wireless internet, IPTV (branch Silk TV), OTT Streaming TV (Silk-TV Digital), wireless fixed telephony, cable fixed telephony (VoIP, OTT), Satellite TV service (branch: Global TV). Silknet's main local competitors are MagtiCom, New Net, Beeline, and Maxnet. In 2018, Silknet was acquired by Geocel. This was the largest acquisition of a company in Georgia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2193144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2193144", "title": "Special Organisation (Algeria)", "text": "Special Organisation (Algeria)\n\nThe Special Organisation () was a secret paramilitary organisation in colonial Algeria, founded by Mohamed Belouizdad of the Movement for the Triumph of Democratic Liberties (MTLD) in 1947 to prepare for armed struggle against France, which ruled Algeria as a colony since 1830. The turn towards guerrilla warfare was in large part encouraged by the reactions to the Sétif massacre in 1945, and other examples of violent repression, which had convinced many Algerian activists that peaceful political work would be pointless.\n\nThe OS had around 1500-2000 members at its peak, and spawned the groups that would later form the FLN; this group, in turn, became the leading force in the Algerian War of Independence (1954–1962), and later Algeria's single ruling party until 1989.\n\nThe OS was dismantled by French police in 1951, and many members imprisoned. Only the units in Aurès and Kabylie remained active at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "38423511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38423511", "title": "The Independents (Liechtenstein)", "text": "The Independents (Liechtenstein)\n\nThe Independents (; abbreviated DU, meaning \"YOU\" in German), is a right-wing populist Eurosceptic political party in Liechtenstein. In the 2013 parliamentary election, the first they contested, they won 29,740 votes (15.3%) and four seats in the Landtag. DU is headed by former Patriotic Union parliamentarian Harry Quaderer.\n\nInternational commentators suggested that the party had benefited from protest votes against austerity measures.\n\nDU is not a party in the traditional sense, having incorporated as a party solely to take advantage of the financial and political rights associated with that status; its platform calls for Members of the Landtag to be able to vote based on their own convictions rather than party pressures. According to Leiden University political science professor Wouter Veenendaal, the DU has an ideology \"similar to that of the Progressive Citizens' Party and the Patriotic Union but its style is brasher.\"\n\nIn 2015 the party called for Liechtenstein to reject the European Union's proposed resettlement of refugees, specifically stating that the EU policies \"led by Merkel's Germany\" were absurd.\n"}
{"id": "5858858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5858858", "title": "Tobelo", "text": "Tobelo\n\nTobelo is a town and also a district on the eastern Indonesian island of Halmahera. It is the capital of the regency (\"kabupaten\") of North Halmahera, part of the province of North Maluku. The city was formalised as the capital of North Halmahera in the district elections held in 2004. It has a population of approximately 33,700. A palm tree lined coastal road connects Tobelo to Galela. The town is predominantly Christian and a Protestant Church has existed in Tobelo since at least 1924.\n\nMuslims and Christians had lived amicably in this town of North Halmahera from the 16th century. However, North Maluku province has a Muslim majority. The coastal road from Galela to Tobelo passes through neighboring Muslim and Christian villages. Living peacefully, these two communities followed the local cultural tradition of the \"Hibua Lamo\" (a pact between Muslims and Christians to live together without aggressive designs on each other and cooperating on all matters of mutual interest).\n\nViolence broke out in Tobelo in December 1999. According to Duncan (2001), the roots of the conflict \"focused on plans by the regional government to create a new district (kecamatan) of Makian Daratan from the southern half of the Kao District.\" Initial reconciliation efforts at the district level worked for some time in preventing any clashes and assuage hurt feelings. The religious violence, which simmered in January 1999 in Ambon culminated in rioting in Tobelo by end of December 1999. This rioting was further triggered by the fleeing of several thousand Christians from Central Halmahera, and Tobelo had turned into a refugee camp. Though the rioting has been quelled, the mistrust between the two communities prevails. Galela District with its own language is another place where remnants of strife (burnt out churches and mosques) between the religious groups are still seen with military checkposts established to prevent any further disturbances in the region. In the ultimate analysis, it is reported that the sectarian violence in 1999–2000 had resulted in 2000 Muslim deaths in Maluku and a population displacement of 200,000 Muslim people in the region. Tobelo was the worst affected as over 100,000 Muslim people were from Tobelo and villages to its south, who fled to the island of Ternate and Morotai during early 2000. Nearly 70% of them returned subsequently as the situation was controlled. However, as a result of violence in 1999–2000, the area is clearly demarcated into Muslim and Christian villages. Tobelo is now almost entirely Christian; while Muslims have fled to nearby villages. Remnants of devastation are still evident. There is a discerned process of peace building emerging between the two communities now.\n\nInhabitants of Tobelo are non-Austronesian–speaking people. Tobelo's predominant Christian character is expressed colourfully at Christmas with bamboo poles arching over the side of the roads hung with lights and multi-coloured flags. At Easter, local church congregations hold a competition to see who can create the best Easter garden.\n\nOne festival of note is the annual North Halmahera Cultural Festival, when the Tobelorese wear full traditional ceremonial dress.\n\nTraditional Tobelorese weddings are also said to be among the most colourful and the Christians follow traditions during their wedding ceremonies, with traditional music and dance. A wedding is typically accompanied by traditional Tobelorese music, played with gongs and drums and a Cakalele dance is usually performed in front of the bride as she approaches the groom. Around the time of New Year, Tobelo attracts a number of Yangere groups from all over North Halmahera and perform music and dances.\n\nThe main language of Tobelo, the Tobelo language, is spoken across parts of North Halmahera and Central Halmahera, by approximately 28,000 people as at 2000.\n\nEach year, in April, after the harvest season there is a practice of offering of plates of rice and certain items of basketry by the married women to the Church, duly observing conventional social norms. The offerings are then sold or auctioned during the Sunday services in the premises of the church. The returns from such sales go to the Church funds (\"kas gereja\"), which are used by the church for providing public services. It is more of ritual than an economic transaction.\n\nThe other ritual observed in Tobelo is on the first Sunday of January when prayers are offered in the Church for the dead. On this occasion, each family decorates the graves of its deceased with flowers. This is also an occasion when women dressed in military uniform hold a parade through the village and enter houses demanding food and sweets.\n\nThe rituals observed conform to both pre-Christian Tobelo customs and the post-Christian era culture conforming to the Gregorian calendar. However, marriages are conducted under the Tobelo customs, rituals and practices. The family units are patrilineal.\n\nTobelo boasts large swathes of locally owned coconut plantations, supplying hundreds of tonnes of copra (dried coconut flesh) every month to the ports of Bitung (North Sulawesi) and Surabaya (East Java). The city, as the main centre for the North Halmahera has thus become the export hub for copra and other commodities.\n\nPulau Tulang is the nearest islet to the town, within swimming distance of the harbour. The Kupa-Kupa beach is located about from the town, near the oil terminal for the Pertamina company. The beach is very clean and attracts tourists for snorkelling. Off the coast of Tobelo town is a group of small, coconut palm covered islands with golden sandy beaches. Longboats frequently travel from them to Tobelo town. Tobelo contains a hospital and a post office and is an important base and port on the island.\n\nIn the three provinces of North Maluku, Maluku, and Central Sulawesi, following the sectarian conflict in 1999 which centred on Tobelo, devastated the well-being and economy of the people. This needed urgent attention of the authorities concerned in the government through a development process. It was a challenging task to both national and regional governments. The UN Common County Assessment (UNCCA) and Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) for 2002–2005 and UNDP’s Country Cooperation Framework decided to pitch in with assistance. They established a programme of linking relief and longer-term development as part of the UN’s support to Indonesia. The UNDP Crisis Prevention and Recovery Unit (CPRU), then launched three support programmes in North Maluku, Maluku and Central Sulawesi, which covered the Galea -Tobelo –South Tobelo Area. Three programmes were launched for the period 2002–2005 envisaging an investment of US $19 million with the objective of: \n\nUNDP launched development project under the Galea – Tobelo – South Tobelo Area Recovery projects in 2002–2003, involved several projects for rural electrification, health facilities (capacity building), transportation, labour-intensive projects of roads and drainage, social activities of cross community collaboration projects of culture and sports empowerment, construction of bridges, markets, improvement of drainage systems and bus terminals. Economy is picking up and there are clear signs of recovery. However, education facilities are still at the basic level. Tobelo and its neighbourhood are still considered a danger zone for foreigners.\n\nTobelo town has many attractions on the islands in its vicinity. One such island is the Tagalaya where sea is calm and the water is clear. The beaches are clean and have extensive spread of white sand. The major attraction here is the broad spread of coral reefs, which are rich in marine life at a depth of . The locale is also good for swimming and diving.\n\nOther attractions in Tabelo neighbourhood are the many beaches, lakes, off-shore islands, forested hills and a volcano. Some of the well-known places are:\n\nLuari beach, the ethnic Galelarese village of Luari to the north of Tobelo, is on the Pacific Ocean. It has clear and calm waters and is safe for swimming and canoeing. Snorkelling is also done on the cape to the north, from where sunset views, over Mount Tarakani and the coast of Galela, are impressive.\n\nKupakupa beach, from the town, has huge banyan trees on its shores, which makes the waters in the sheltered location inside the bay ideal for watersports, such as swimming, canoeing and snorkelling. The coral reef at its northern end is stated to be one of the finest. Pertamina harbour for oil-vessels is also located here.\n\nKumo beach on the Kumo island is the nearest to Tabelo town – a few minutes of motorised canoeing – is the busiest beach in North Halmahera. Its natural surroundings are scenic. Swimming is safe here.\n\nTobotobo Sea Garden in the Toboto village, which is ideal for snorkelling and diving. Thousands of bats are seen here clinging to the mangrove trees. White and blue pigeons take bath here.\n\nTelaga Paca is a small crater lake close to Tobelo town to the south – a few km off the main road. The lake is set in a backdrop of thickly forested hills. There is also a small village by the same name Talaga Paca near the lake, which has a lookout area erected over stilts in the water to view the lake. A canoe could be hired to paddle in the lake. It is the source of drinking water to the village. Villagers do fishing in the lake.\n\n"}
{"id": "11294627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11294627", "title": "Trade unions in Algeria", "text": "Trade unions in Algeria\n\nPrior to Algerian independence in 1962, trade unions in Algeria were structured within regional organizations of French trade unions. After independence the General Union of Algerian Workers (UGTA) became the sole trade union center. The UGTA was linked with the Front de Libération nationale; however, in 1989, with constitutional changes and new laws the UGTA was distanced from the FLN and no longer retained the position of sole trade union center. Despite this, the UGTA continues to be, in practice, the only center - with few trade unions outside its affiliation.\n\nDuring the Algerian Civil War the trade union movement was caught in the same violence that killed large numbers of civilians. Both ICTUR and Amnesty International report many deaths of trade union activists, concluding that the reasons for their deaths are difficult to determine, given the chaotic times. Reasons range from deaths directly related to union activities, through to other political issues (such as fundamentalist views of women teachers), and endemic random violence.\n"}
{"id": "4162432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4162432", "title": "WNYW (shortwave)", "text": "WNYW (shortwave)\n\nWNYW (Radio New York Worldwide) was a shortwave radio station that broadcast from Scituate, Massachusetts, in the United States. During WWII the station became important for the British and the Norwegian information services. On October 20, 1973, Family Stations, Inc., acquired the station to be part of its Family Radio network and changed the call letters to WYFR. Family Stations eventually progressively moved the transmitters to their current site in Okeechobee, Florida. The transmitter site in Scituate continued to operate until November 16, 1979 when it was switched off for the last time.\n\nOn October 15, 1927, Walter Lemmon, a radio inventor, was granted the first shortwave radio license in the United States and began experimental shortwave station W1XAL in Boston, Massachusetts. In 1935, the station began transmitting non-commercial, educational, and cultural programs. Supported by charitable institutions it was a not run for profit.\n\nFour days after Britain and France declared war on Germany, on September 7, 1939, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) assigned call letters WRUL (for World Radio University Listeners) to the station. As it had a large worldwide listening audience, which regularly corresponded with the station and a high power transmitter it was seen by British Security Co-ordination (BSC), a covert organization that the British Secret Intelligence Service established in New York City as a vehicle for conducting political warfare on behalf of the British. The station was transmitting mostly in English so BSC provided through third parties the finance, translators, and foreign language announcers to produce high-quality programming in other languages. BSC also provided the material to be broadcast and so by 1941 WRUL had become unknowingly an arm of the BSC though outwardly independent and believing itself to be so. From 1939 to 1942, WRUL broadcast radio lectures to Europe and South America in eight languages, and also in the United States over an informal network of over 300 stations, including WNYC in New York City. Following the establishment of what would become the OSS, American propaganda was provided to the station, but it was not until the entry of the US into the war that BSC handed over control. Like all United States shortwave stations, in November 1942 the U.S. government leased WRUL for further wartime propaganda broadcasts. WRUL was allowed to resume partial independent programming in 1947, and full independent programming in 1954.\n\nFrom September 1940 and throughout WWII the Norwegian government had a daily half hour transmission in Norwegian for the sailors in the Norwegian commercial fleet. \n\nMetromedia bought the station in 1960. In June 1962, International Educational Broadcasting Corporation (now Bonneville International), owned by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, bought WRUL. The station adopted the slogan \"Radio New York Worldwide\" and used studios in New York City and an adult contemporary format, with ABC Radio or CBS Radio hourly and half-hour newscasts and from its sister station, WRFM. On-air staff from WRFM would also have separate shifts on WNYW. There were rumors that the station was being partially controlled by the Central Intelligence Agency to broadcast anti-communist propaganda.\n\nOn June 1, 1966, WRUL changed its call letters to WNYW, which stood for Radio New York Worldwide. The station attempted to do some commercial programming, but there were few advertisers because it was difficult to estimate audience ratings for the wide geographical area that shortwave stations typically covered.\n\nIn 1970, Bonneville offered to sell the station to the U.S. government for a token payment of one dollar, for use by the Voice of America, but no sale materialized.\n\nIn 1974, Bonneville sold WNYW. The callsign was assigned to the Fox Broadcasting Company's flagship station, WNYW (formerly Metromedia station WNEW-TV and DuMont Television Network station WABD), in New York City.\n\n"}
{"id": "305257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305257", "title": "Washington Consensus", "text": "Washington Consensus\n\nThe Washington Consensus is a set of 10 economic policy prescriptions considered to constitute the \"standard\" reform package promoted for crisis-wracked developing countries by Washington, D.C.-based institutions such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank and United States Department of the Treasury. The term was first used in 1989 by English economist John Williamson. The prescriptions encompassed policies in such areas as macroeconomic stabilization, economic opening with respect to both trade and investment, and the expansion of market forces within the domestic economy.\n\nSubsequent to Williamson's use of the terminology, and despite his emphatic opposition, the phrase Washington Consensus has come to be used fairly widely in a second, broader sense, to refer to a more general orientation towards a strongly market-based approach (sometimes described as market fundamentalism or neoliberalism). In emphasizing the magnitude of the difference between the two alternative definitions, Williamson himself has argued (see and below) that his ten original, narrowly defined prescriptions have largely acquired the status of \"motherhood and apple pie\" (i.e., are broadly taken for granted), whereas the subsequent broader definition, representing a form of neoliberal manifesto, \"never enjoyed a consensus [in Washington] or anywhere much else\" and can reasonably be said to be dead.\n\nDiscussion of the Washington Consensus has long been contentious. Partly this reflects a lack of agreement over what is meant by the term, in face of the contrast between the broader and narrower definitions. But there are also substantive differences involved over the merits and consequences of the various policy prescriptions involved. Some critics take issue, for example, with the original Consensus's emphasis on the opening of developing countries to global markets, and/or with what they see as an excessive focus on strengthening the influence of domestic market forces, arguably at the expense of key functions of the state. For other commentators, the issue is more what is \"missing\", including such areas as institution-building and targeted efforts to improve opportunities for the weakest in society. Despite these areas of controversy, a number of developmental institutions and economists (such as Joseph Stiglitz) would by now accept the more general proposition that strategies best work if they are specifically designed to the certain circumstances of the individual countries.\n\nThe concept and name of the Washington Consensus were first presented in 1989 by John Williamson, an economist from the Institute for International Economics, an international economic think tank based in Washington, D.C. Williamson used the term to summarize commonly shared themes among policy advice by Washington-based institutions at the time, such as the International Monetary Fund, World Bank, and U.S. Treasury Department, which were believed to be necessary for the recovery of countries in Latin America from the economic and financial crises of the 1980s.\n\nThe consensus as originally stated by Williamson included ten broad sets of relatively specific policy recommendations:\n\nAlthough Williamson's label of the \"Washington\" Consensus draws attention to the role of the Washington-based agencies in promoting the above agenda, a number of authors have stressed that Latin American policy-makers arrived at their own packages of policy reforms primarily based on their own analysis of their countries' situations. Thus, according to Joseph Stanislaw and Daniel Yergin, authors of \"The Commanding Heights\", the policy prescriptions described in the Washington Consensus were \"developed in Latin America, by Latin Americans, in response to what was happening both within and outside the region.\" Joseph Stiglitz has written that \"the Washington Consensus policies were designed to respond to the very real problems in Latin America and made considerable sense\" (though Stiglitz has at times been an outspoken critic of IMF policies as applied to developing nations). In view of the implication conveyed by the term Washington Consensus that the policies were largely external in origin, Stanislaw and Yergin report that the term's creator, John Williamson, has \"regretted the term ever since\", stating \"it is difficult to think of a less diplomatic label.\"\n\nA 2010 paper by Nancy Birdsall, Augusto de la Torre, and Felipe Valencia Caicedo likewise suggests that the policies in the original consensus were largely a creation of Latin American politicians and technocrats, with Williamson's role having been to gather the ten points in one place for the first time, rather than to \"create\" the package of policies.\n\nIn Williamson's own words from 2002:\n\nWilliamson recognizes that the term has commonly been used with a different meaning from his original prescription; he opposes the alternative use of the term, which became common after his initial formulation, to cover a broader market fundamentalism or \"neoliberal\" agenda.\n\nMore specifically, Williamson argues that the first three of his ten prescriptions are uncontroversial in the economic community, while recognizing that the others have evoked some controversy. He argues that one of the least controversial prescriptions, the redirection of spending to infrastructure, health care, and education, has often been neglected. He also argues that, while the prescriptions were focused on reducing certain functions of government (e.g., as an owner of productive enterprises), they would also strengthen government's ability to undertake other actions such as supporting education and health. Williamson says that he does not endorse market fundamentalism, and believes that the Consensus prescriptions, if implemented correctly, would benefit the poor. In a book edited with Pedro-Pablo Kuczynski in 2003, Williamson laid out an expanded reform agenda, emphasizing crisis-proofing of economies, \"second-generation\" reforms, and policies addressing inequality and social issues (Kuczynski and Williamson, 2003).\n\nAs noted, in spite of Williamson's reservations, the term Washington Consensus has been used more broadly to describe the general shift towards free market policies that followed the displacement of Keynesianism in the 1970s. In this broad sense the Washington Consensus is sometimes considered to have begun at about 1980.\nMany commentators see the consensus, especially if interpreted in the broader sense of the term, as having been at its strongest during the 1990s. Some have argued that the consensus in this sense ended at the turn of the century, or at least that it became less influential after about the year 2000.\nMore commonly, commentators have suggested that the Consensus in its broader sense survived until the time of the 2008 global financial crisis.\nFollowing the strong intervention undertaken by governments in response to market failures, a number of journalists, politicians and senior officials from global institutions such as the World Bank began saying that the Washington Consensus was dead.\nThese included former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown, who following the 2009 G-20 London summit, declared \"the old Washington Consensus is over\". Williamson was asked by \"The Washington Post\" in April 2009 whether he agreed with Gordon Brown that the Washington Consensus was dead. He responded:\n\nAfter the 2010 G-20 Seoul summit announced that it had achieved agreement on a Seoul Development Consensus, the \"Financial Times\" editorialized that \"Its pragmatic and pluralistic view of development is appealing enough. But the document will do little more than drive another nail into the coffin of a long-deceased Washington consensus.\"\n\nMany countries have endeavored to implement varying components of the reform packages, with implementation sometimes imposed as a condition for receiving loans from the IMF and World Bank. The results of these reforms are much debated. Some critics focus on claims that the reforms led to destabilization. Some critics have also blamed the Washington Consensus for particular economic crises such as the Argentine economic crisis, and for exacerbating Latin America's economic inequalities. Criticism of the Washington Consensus has often been dismissed as socialism and/or anti-globalism. While these philosophies do criticize these policies, general criticism of the economics of the consensus is now more widely established, such as that outlined by US scholar Dani Rodrik, Professor of International Political Economy at Harvard University, in his paper \"Goodbye Washington Consensus, Hello Washington Confusion?\".\n\nThe institutions that formed the consensus started softening their insistence on these policies in the 2000s largely due to political pressures surrounding globalization, but any reference of these ideas as a consensus essentially ended in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis, as market fundamentalism lost favour. Though, it should be noted, that most of the core specific policies are still generally regarded favourably, but the policies have come to be viewed as not preventing nor alleviating acute economic crises. This is perhaps most notable in the work of the IMF with South Korea to create a new sort of intervention program to the one that South Korea was forced to accept during the Asian Financial Crisis of the late 1990s. That intervention, which was heavily grounded in the Washington Consensus, was hailed at the time for stopping the \"Asian Contagion\" but eventually the program came to be seen more skeptically.\n\nWilliamson himself has summarized the overall results on growth, employment and poverty reduction in many countries as \"disappointing, to say the least\". He attributes this limited impact to three factors: (a) the Consensus \"per se\" placed no special emphasis on mechanisms for avoiding economic crises, which have proved very damaging; (b) the reforms—both those listed in his article and, \"a fortiori\", those actually implemented—were incomplete; and (c) the reforms cited were insufficiently ambitious with respect to targeting improvements in income distribution, and need to be complemented by stronger efforts in this direction. Rather than an argument for abandoning the original ten prescriptions, though, Williamson concludes that they are \"motherhood and apple pie\" and \"not worth debating\". Both Williamson and other analysts have pointed to longer term improvements in economic performance in a number of countries that have adopted the relevant policy changes consistently, such as Chile (below).\n\nAs Williamson himself has pointed out, the term has come to be used in a broader sense to its original intention, as a synonym for market fundamentalism or neo-liberalism. In this broader sense, Williamson states, it has been criticized by people such as George Soros and Nobel Laureate Joseph E. Stiglitz. The Washington Consensus is also criticized by others such as some Latin American politicians and heterodox economists such as Erik Reinert. The term has become associated with neoliberal policies in general and drawn into the broader debate over the expanding role of the free market, constraints upon the state, and the influence of the United States, and globalization more broadly, on countries' national sovereignty.\n\nWhile opinion varies among economists, Rodrik pointed out what he claimed was a factual paradox: while China and India increased their economies' reliance on free market forces to a limited extent, their general economic policies remained the exact opposite to the Washington Consensus' main recommendations. Both had high levels of protectionism, no privatization, extensive industrial policies planning, and lax fiscal and financial policies through the 1990s. Had they been dismal failures they would have presented strong evidence in support of the recommended Washington Consensus policies. However they turned out to be successes. According to Rodrik: \"While the lessons drawn by proponents and skeptics differ, it is fair to say that nobody really believes in the Washington Consensus anymore. The question now is not whether the Washington Consensus is dead or alive; it is what will replace it\".\n\nRodrik's account of Chinese or Indian policies during the period is not universally accepted. Among other things those policies involved major turns in the direction of greater reliance upon market forces, both domestically and internationally.\n\nIn a book edited with Pedro Pablo Kuczynski in 2003, John Williamson laid out an expanded reform agenda, emphasizing crisis-proofing of economies, \"second-generation\" reforms, and policies addressing inequality and social issues.\n\nThe widespread adoption by governments of the Washington Consensus was to a large degree a reaction to the macroeconomic crisis that hit much of Latin America, and some other developing regions, during the 1980s. The crisis had multiple origins: the drastic rise in the price of imported oil following the emergence of OPEC, mounting levels of external debt, the rise in US (and hence international) interest rates, and—consequent to the foregoing problems—loss of access to additional foreign credit. The import-substitution policies that had been pursued by many developing country governments in Latin America and elsewhere for several decades had left their economies ill-equipped to expand exports at all quickly to pay for the additional cost of imported oil (by contrast, many countries in East Asia, which had followed more export-oriented strategies, found it comparatively easy to expand exports still further, and as such managed to accommodate the external shocks with much less economic and social disruption). Unable either to expand external borrowing further or to ramp up export earnings easily, many Latin American countries faced no obvious sustainable alternatives to reducing overall domestic demand via greater fiscal discipline, while in parallel adopting policies to reduce protectionism and increase their economies' export orientation.\n\nThe Washington Consensus, as framed by Williamson, envisaged a largely \"unilateral\" process of trade reform, by which countries would lower their non-tariff (especially) and tariff barriers to imports. Many countries, including the majority of those in Latin America, have indeed undertaken significant unilateral trade liberalization over subsequent years, opening their economies to greater import competition while simultaneously increasing the share of exports in their GDP (in parallel, Latin America's share in global trade has also increased).\n\nA separate agenda—only tangentially related to the Washington Consensus as framed by Williamson—concerns various programs for \"multilateral\" trade liberalization, whether at the global (WTO) or regional level, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and DR-CAFTA agreements.\n\nMost criticism has been focused on trade liberalization and the elimination of subsidies, and criticism has been particularly strident in the agriculture sector. In nations with substantial natural resources, though, criticism has tended to focus on privatization of industries exploiting these resources.\n\nAs of the 2000s, several Latin American countries were led by socialist or other left wing governments, some of which—including Argentina and Venezuela—have campaigned for (and to some degree adopted) policies contrary to the Washington Consensus policies. Other Latin American countries with governments of the left, including Brazil, Chile and Peru, in practice adopted the bulk of the policies included in Williamson's list, even though they criticized the market fundamentalism that these are often associated with. Also critical of the policies as actually promoted by the IMF have been some US economists, such as Joseph Stiglitz and Dani Rodrik, who have challenged what are sometimes described as the 'fundamentalist' policies of the IMF and the US Treasury for what Stiglitz calls a 'one size fits all' treatment of individual economies. According to Stiglitz the treatment suggested by the IMF is too simple: one dose, and fast—stabilize, liberalize and privatize, without prioritizing or watching for side effects.\nBesides the excessive belief in market fundamentalism and international economic institutions in attributing the failure of the Washington consensus, Stiglitz provided a further explanation about why it failed. In his article \"The Post Washington Consensus Consensus\", he claims that the Washington consensus policies failed to efficiently handle the economic structures within developing countries. The cases of East Asian countries such as Korea and Taiwan are known as a success story in which their remarkable economic growth was attributed to a larger role of the government by undertaking industrial policies and increasing domestic savings within their territory. From the cases, the role for government was proven to be critical at the beginning stage of the dynamic process of development, at least until the markets by themselves can produce efficient outcomes.\n\nThe critique laid out in the World Bank's study \"Economic Growth in the 1990s: Learning from a Decade of Reform\" (2005) shows how far discussion has come from the original ideas of the Washington Consensus. Gobind Nankani, a former vice-president for Africa at the World Bank, wrote in the preface: \"there is no unique universal set of rules... [W]e need to get away from formulae and the search for elusive 'best practices'...\" (p. xiii). The World Bank's new emphasis is on the need for humility, for policy diversity, for selective and modest reforms, and for experimentation.\n\nThe World Bank's report \"Learning from Reform\" shows some of the developments of the 1990s. There was a deep and prolonged collapse in output in some (though by no means all) countries making the transition from communism to market economies (many of the Central and East European countries, by contrast, made the adjustment relatively rapidly). Academic studies show that more than two decades into the transition, some of the former communist countries, especially parts of the former Soviet Union, had still not caught up to their levels of output before 1989. A 2001 study by economist Steven Rosefielde posits that there were 3.4 million premature deaths in Russia from 1990 to 1998, which he party blames on the shock therapy imposed by the Washington Consensus. Neoliberal policies associated with the Washington Consensus, including pension privatization, the imposition of a flat tax, monetarism, cutting of corporate taxes, and central bank independence, continued into the 2000s. Many Sub-Saharan African's economies failed to take off during the 1990s, in spite of efforts at policy reform, changes in the political and external environments, and continued heavy influx of foreign aid. Uganda, Tanzania, and Mozambique were among countries that showed some success, but they remained fragile. There were several successive and painful financial crises in Latin America, East Asia, Russia, and Turkey. The Latin American recovery in the first half of the 1990s was interrupted by crises later in the decade. There was less growth in per capita GDP in Latin America than in the period of rapid post-War expansion and opening in the world economy, 1950–80. Argentina, described by some as \"the poster boy of the Latin American economic revolution\", came crashing down in 2002.\n\nAmong other results of the recent global financial crisis has been a strengthening of belief in the importance of local development models as more suitable than programmatic approaches. Some elements of this school of thought were summarized in the idea of a \"Beijing Consensus\" which suggested that nations needed to find their own paths to development and reform.\n\nMany critics of trade liberalization, such as Noam Chomsky, Tariq Ali, Susan George, and Naomi Klein, see the Washington Consensus as a way to open the labor market of underdeveloped economies to exploitation by companies from more developed economies. The prescribed reductions in tariffs and other trade barriers allow the free movement of goods across borders according to market forces, but labor is not permitted to move freely due to the requirements of a visa or a work permit. This creates an economic climate where goods are manufactured using cheap labor in underdeveloped economies and then exported to rich First World economies for sale at what the critics argue are huge markups, with the balance of the markup said to accrue to large multinational corporations. The criticism is that workers in the Third World economy nevertheless remain poor, as any pay raises they may have received over what they made before trade liberalization are said to be offset by inflation, whereas workers in the First World country become unemployed, while the wealthy owners of the multinational grow even more wealthy.\n\nAnti-globalism critics further claim that First World countries impose what the critics describe as the consensus's neoliberal policies on economically vulnerable countries through organizations such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and by political pressure and bribery. They argue that the Washington Consensus has not, in fact, led to any great economic boom in Latin America, but rather to severe economic crises and the accumulation of crippling external debts that render the target country beholden to the First World.\n\nMany of the policy prescriptions (e.g., the privatization of state industries, tax reform, and deregulation) are criticized as mechanisms for ensuring the development of a small, wealthy, indigenous elite in the Third World who will rise to political power and also have a vested interest in maintaining the local status quo of labor exploitation.\n\nSome specific factual premises of the critique as phrased above (especially on the macroeconomic side) are not accepted by defenders, or indeed all critics, of the Washington Consensus. To take a few examples, inflation in many developing countries is now at its lowest levels for many decades (low single figures for very much of Latin America). Workers in some factories created by foreign investment are found typically to receive higher wages and better working conditions than exist in many of their own countries' domestically owned workplaces. Economic growth in much of Latin America in the last few years has been at historically high rates, and debt levels, relative to the size of these economies, are on average significantly lower than they were several years ago.\n\nDespite these macroeconomic advances, poverty and inequality remain at high levels in Latin America. About one of every three people—165 million in total—still live on less than $2 a day. Roughly a third of the population has no access to electricity or basic sanitation, and an estimated 10 million children suffer from malnutrition. These problems are not, however, new: Latin America was the most economically unequal region in the world in 1950, and has continued to be so ever since, during periods both of state-directed import-substitution and (subsequently) of market-oriented liberalization.\n\nSome socialist political leaders in Latin America have been vocal and well-known critics of the Washington Consensus, such as the late Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, Cuban ex-President Fidel Castro, Bolivian President Evo Morales, and Rafael Correa, President of Ecuador. In Argentina, too, the recent Justicialist Party government of Néstor Kirchner and Cristina Fernández de Kirchner undertook policy measures which represented a repudiation of at least some Consensus policies (see Continuing Controversy below). With the exception of Castro, these leaders have maintained and expanded some successful policies commonly associated with the Washington Consensus, such as macroeconomic stability and property rights protection. But many have also proposed and implemented policies directly opposed to the Washington Consensus: under Chavez, for example, Venezuela partially nationalized the state-run oil company, Petróleos de Venezuela S.A (PdVSA), and with the help of the company's assets developed several social programs to help the country's poor. These programs have been credited with the dramatic improvement in quality of life during Chavez's presidency: the poverty rate dropped from 48.6% in 2002 to 29.5% in 2011, while access to education and healthcare was significantly increased.\n\nOthers on the Latin American left take a different approach. Governments led by the Socialist Party of Chile, by Alan García in Peru, by Tabaré Vázquez in Uruguay, and by Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva in Brazil, have in practise maintained a high degree of continuity with the economic policies described under the Washington Consensus (debt-paying, protection to foreign investment, financial reforms, etc.). But governments of this type have simultaneously sought to supplement these policies by measures directly targeted at improving productivity and helping the poor, such as education reforms and subsidies to poor families conditioned on their children staying in school.\n\nNeo-Keynesian and post-Keynesian critics of the Consensus have argued that the underlying policies were incorrectly laid down and are too rigid to be able to succeed. For example, flexible labor laws were supposed to create new jobs, but economic evidence from Latin America is inconclusive on this point. In addition, some argue that the package of policies does not take into account economic and cultural differences between countries. Some critics have argued that this set of policies should be implemented, if at all, during a period of rapid economic growth and not—as often is the case—during an economic crisis.\n\nMoisés Naím, chief editor of \"Foreign Policy\", has made the argument that there was no 'consensus' in the first place. He has argued that there are and have been major differences between economists over what is the 'correct economic policy', hence the idea of there being a consensus was also flawed.\n\nSome European and Asian economists suggest that \"infrastructure-savvy economies\" such as Norway, Singapore, and China have partially rejected the underlying Neoclassical \"financial orthodoxy\" that characterizes the Washington Consensus, instead initiating a pragmatist development path of their own based on sustained, large-scale, government-funded investments in strategic infrastructure projects: \"Successful countries such as Singapore, Indonesia, and South Korea still remember the harsh adjustment mechanisms imposed abruptly upon them by the IMF and World Bank during the 1997–1998 'Asian Crisis' […] What they have achieved in the past 10 years is all the more remarkable: they have quietly abandoned the Washington Consensus by investing massively in infrastructure projects […] this pragmatic approach proved to be very successful\".\n\nWhile China invested roughly 9% of its GDP on infrastructure in the 1990s and 2000s, most Western and non-Asian emerging economies invested only 2% to 4% of their GDP in infrastructure assets. This considerable investment gap allowed the Chinese economy to grow at near-optimal conditions while many South American, South Asian, and African economies suffered from various development bottlenecks like poor transportation networks, aging power grids, and mediocre schools.\n\nThe Argentine economic crisis of 1999–2002 is often held out as an example of the economic devastation said by some to have been wrought by application of the Washington Consensus. Argentina's former Deputy Foreign Minister Jorge Taiana, in an interview with the state news agency Télam on August 16, 2005, attacked the Washington Consensus. There never was a real consensus for such policies, he said, and today \"a good number of governments of the hemisphere are reviewing the assumptions with which they applied those policies in the 1990s\", adding that governments are looking for a development model to guarantee productive employment and the generation of real wealth.\n\nMany economists, however, challenge the view that Argentina's failure can be attributed to close adherence to the Washington Consensus. The country's adoption of an idiosyncratic fixed exchange rate regime (the convertibility plan), which became increasingly uncompetitive, together with its failure to achieve effective control over its fiscal accounts, both ran counter to central provisions of the Consensus, and paved the way directly for the ultimate macroeconomic collapse. The market-oriented policies of the early Menem-Cavallo years, meanwhile, soon petered out in the face of domestic political constraints (including Menem's preoccupation with securing re-election).\n\nIn October 1998, the IMF invited Argentine President Carlos Menem, to talk about the successful Argentine experience, at the Annual Meeting of the Board of Governors. President Menem's Minister of Economy (1991–1996), Domingo Cavallo, the architect of the Menem administration's economic policies, specifically including \"convertibility\", made the claim that Argentina was at that moment, \"considered as the best pupil of the IMF, the World Bank and the USA government\":\n\nThe problems which arise with reliance on a fixed exchange rate mechanism (above) are discussed in the World Bank report \"Economic Growth in the 1990s: Learning from a Decade of Reform\", which questions whether expectations can be \"positively affected by tying a government's hands\". In the early 1990s there was a point of view that countries should move to either fixed or completely flexible exchange rates to reassure market participants of the complete removal of government discretion in foreign exchange matters. After the Argentina collapse, some observers believe that removing government discretion by creating mechanisms that impose large penalties may, on the contrary, actually itself undermine expectations. Velasco and Neut (2003) \"argue that if the world is uncertain and there are situations in which the lack of discretion will cause large losses, a pre-commitment device can actually make things worse\". In chapter 7 of its report (\"Financial Liberalization: What Went Right,What Went Wrong?\") the World Bank analyses what went wrong in Argentina, summarizes the lessons from the experience, and draws suggestions for its future policy.\n\nThe IMF's Independent Evaluation Office has issued a review of the lessons of Argentina for the institution, summarized in the following quotation:\nMark Weisbrot says that, in more recent years, Argentina under former President Néstor Kirchner made a break with the Consensus and that this led to a significant improvement in its economy; some add that Ecuador may soon follow suit. However, while Kirchner's reliance on price controls and similar administrative measures (often aimed primarily at \"foreign-invested\" firms such as utilities) clearly ran counter to the spirit of the Consensus, his administration in fact ran an extremely tight fiscal ship and maintained a highly competitive floating exchange rate; Argentina's immediate bounce-back from crisis, further aided by abrogating its debts and a fortuitous boom in prices of primary commodities, leaves open issues of longer-term sustainability.\n\"The Economist\" has argued that the Néstor Kirchner administration will end up as one more in Argentina's long history of populist governments. In October 2008, Kirchner's wife and successor as President, Cristina Kirchner, announced her government's intention to nationalize pension funds from the privatized system implemented by Menem-Cavallo. Accusations have emerged of the manipulation of official statistics under the Kirchners (most notoriously, for inflation) to create an inaccurately positive picture of economic performance. \"The Economist\" removed Argentina's inflation measure from its official indicators, saying that they were no longer reliable.\n\nIn 2003, Argentina's and Brazil's presidents, Néstor Kirchner and Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva signed the \"Buenos Aires Consensus\", a manifesto opposing the Washington Consensus' policies. Skeptical political observers note, however, that Lula's rhetoric on such public occasions should be distinguished from the policies actually implemented by his administration. This said, Lula da Silva paid the whole of Brazil's debt with the IMF two years in advance, freeing his government from IMF tutelage, as did Néstor Kirchner's government in 2005.\n\nThe Washington Consensus as formulated by Williamson includes provision for the redirection of public spending from subsidies (\"especially indiscriminate subsidies\") toward broad-based provision of key pro-growth, pro-poor services like primary education, primary health care and infrastructure investment. This definition leaves some room for debate over specific public spending programs. One area of public controversy has focused on the issues of subsidies to farmers for fertilizers and other modern farm inputs: on the one hand, these can be criticized as subsidies, on the other, it may be argued that they generate positive externalities that might justify the subsidy involved.\n\nSome critics of the Washington Consensus cite Malawi's experience with agricultural subsidies, for example, as exemplifying perceived flaws in the package's prescriptions. For decades, the World Bank and donor nations pressed Malawi, a predominantly rural country in Africa, to cut back or eliminate government fertilizer subsidies to farmers. World Bank experts also urged the country to have Malawi farmers shift to growing cash crops for export and to use foreign exchange earnings to import food. For years, Malawi hovered on the brink of famine; after a particularly disastrous corn harvest in 2005, almost five million of its 13 million people needed emergency food aid. Malawi's newly elected president Bingu wa Mutharika then decided to reverse policy. Introduction of deep fertilizer subsidies (and lesser ones for seed), abetted by good rains, helped farmers produce record-breaking corn harvests in 2006 and 2007; according to government reports, corn production leapt from 1.2 million metric tons in 2005 to 2.7 million in 2006 and 3.4 million in 2007. The prevalence of acute child hunger has fallen sharply and Malawi recently turned away emergency food aid.\n\nIn a commentary on the Malawi experience prepared for the Center for Global Development, development economists Vijaya Ramachandran and Peter Timmer argue that fertilizer subsidies in parts of Africa (and Indonesia) can have benefits that substantially exceed their costs. They caution, however, that how the subsidy is operated is crucial to its long-term success, and warn against allowing fertilizer distribution to become a monopoly. Ramachandran and Timmer also stress that African farmers need more than just input subsidies—they need better research to develop new inputs and new seeds, as well as better transport and energy infrastructure. The World Bank reportedly now sometimes supports the temporary use of fertilizer subsidies aimed at the poor and carried out in a way that fosters private markets: \"In Malawi, Bank officials say they generally support Malawi's policy, though they criticize the government for not having a strategy to eventually end the subsidies, question whether its 2007 corn production estimates are inflated and say there is still a lot of room for improvement in how the subsidy is carried out\".\n\nMost Latin American countries continue to struggle with high poverty and underemployment. Chile has been offered as an example of a Consensus success story, and countries such as El Salvador and Panama have also shown some positive signs of economic development. Brazil, despite relatively modest rates of aggregate growth, has seen important progress in recent years in the reduction of poverty. This is counterweight, since the last two Brazilian socialist presidents have adjusted modest socialist reforms.\n\nJoseph Stiglitz has argued that the Chilean success story owes a lot to state ownership of key industries, particularly its copper industry, and currency interventions stabilizing capital flows. Many other economists, though, argue that Chile's economic success is largely due to its combination of sound macroeconomics and market-oriented policies (though the country's relatively strong public institutions, including one of the better public school systems in the region, also deserve some credit).\n\nThere have been claims of discrepancies between the Washington Consensus as propounded by Williamson, and the policies actually implemented with the endorsement of the Washington institutions themselves. For example, the Washington Consensus stated a need for investment in education, but the policies of fiscal discipline promoted by the International Monetary Fund have sometimes in practice led countries to cut back public spending on social programs, including such areas as basic education. Those familiar with the work of the IMF respond that, at a certain stage, countries near bankruptcy have to cut back their public spending one way or another to live within their means. Washington may argue for enlightened choices among different public spending priorities, but in the last analysis it is domestically elected political leaders who ultimately have to make the tough political choices.\n\nA significant body of economists and policy-makers argues that what was wrong with the Washington Consensus as originally formulated by Williamson had less to do with what was \"included\" than with what was \"missing\". This view asserts that countries such as Brazil, Chile, Peru and Uruguay, largely governed by parties of the left in recent years, did not—whatever their rhetoric—in practice abandon most of the substantive elements of the Consensus. Countries that have achieved macroeconomic stability through fiscal and monetary discipline have been loath to abandon it: Lula, the former President of Brazil (and former leader of the Workers' Party of Brazil), has stated explicitly that the defeat of hyperinflation was among the most important positive contributions of the years of his presidency to the welfare of the country's poor, although the remaining influence of his policies on tackling poverty and maintaining a steady low rate of inflation are being discussed and doubted in the wake of the Brazilian Economic Crisis currently occurring in Brazil.\n\nThese economists and policy-makers would, however, overwhelmingly agree that the Washington Consensus was \"incomplete\", and that countries in Latin America and elsewhere need to move beyond \"first generation\" macroeconomic and trade reforms to a stronger focus on productivity-boosting reforms and direct programs to support the poor. This includes improving the investment climate and eliminating red tape (especially for smaller firms), strengthening institutions (in areas like justice systems), fighting poverty directly via the types of Conditional Cash Transfer programs adopted by countries like Mexico and Brazil, improving the quality of primary and secondary education, boosting countries' effectiveness at developing and absorbing technology, and addressing the special needs of historically disadvantaged groups including indigenous peoples and Afro-descendant populations across Latin America.\n\nIn early 2008, the term \"Washington Consensus\" was used in a different sense as a metric for analyzing American mainstream media coverage of U.S. foreign policy generally and Middle East policy specifically. Marda Dunsky writes, \"Time and again, with exceedingly rare exceptions, the media repeat without question, and fail to challenge the \"Washington consensus\"—the official mind-set of US governments on Middle East peacemaking over time.\" According to syndicated columnist William Pfaff, Beltway centrism in American mainstream media coverage of foreign affairs is the rule rather than the exception: \"Coverage of international affairs in the US is almost entirely Washington-driven. That is, the questions asked about foreign affairs are Washington's questions, framed in terms of domestic politics and established policy positions. This invites uninformative answers and discourages unwanted or unpleasant views.\" Like the economic discussion above the foreign policy usage of the term has less to do with what is included than with what is missing.\n\nA similar view, though by a different name, is taken by Fairness & Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR), a progressive media criticism organization. They note \"Official Agendas\" as one of nine 'issue areas' they view as causing 'What's Wrong With the News?\" They note: \"Despite the claims that the press has an adversarial relationship with the government, in truth U.S. media generally follow Washington's official line. This is particularly obvious in wartime and in foreign policy coverage, but even with domestic controversies, the spectrum of debate usually falls in the relatively narrow range between the leadership of the Democratic and Republican parties.\"\n\n\n\n"}
