{"id": "55846427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55846427", "title": "Abdinasir Ali Hassan", "text": "Abdinasir Ali Hassan\n\nAbdinasir Ali Hassan (), is a Somali Kenyan entrepreneur and the chairman of Hass Petroleum, an international oil marketing company.\n\nHassan took over the company after his brother, Abdirazak Ali Hassan died. He began expanding the company reach into new markets, in Africa such as Somalia and the South Sudan. Today, Hass Petroleum operates more than 11 countries in east Africa and maintains offices in London and Dubai.\n"}
{"id": "27588039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27588039", "title": "Agustí Montal Galobart", "text": "Agustí Montal Galobart\n\nAgustí Montal i Galobart was a president of the FC Barcelona for the years 1946 to 1952. Born in Barcelona in 1906 and died in 1964.\n\nAfter the Spanish Civil War and during the early years of the Dictatorship by Francisco Franco, between 1939 and 1953, the president was appointed by the authorities of the regime. Montal's presidency began on 20 September 1946. But success came only in 1952, when the team under the command of Ferdinand Daucik during a season won five titles - La Liga, the Spanish Cup, Copa America, the Trofeo Martini Rossi and the Copa Eva Duarte. This resulted in a significant increase in the Barca fans, so he decided to buy land to build a new stadium - the Camp Nou, since Les Corts was too small to accommodate a growing group of followers. On 16 July 1952 Montal resigned as chairman to be replaced by Enric Martí Carreto.\n\nHis son Agustí Montal i Costa was also chairman of the 1966 Barcelona 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "56037664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56037664", "title": "Amir Reko", "text": "Amir Reko\n\nAmir Reko (born 1963), known by his \"nom de guerre\" Makedonac (\"the Macedonian\"), is a Bosnian-Danish entrepreneur, formerly military officer in the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA), and a commander in the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina (ARBiH) during the Bosnian War (1992–1995).\n\nAn ethnic Bosniak, Reko was born in the hamlet of Gudelj of the village Jošanica in Foča in eastern Bosnia. During World War II his grandmother was saved by a Serb. He finished primary school in the village of Ustikolina, after which he moved to Sarajevo on higher studies, finishing middle technical school in 1982. He finished the Army military school in 1986 as an infantry. He served as an officer (\"časnik\") in Novo Mesto (in Slovenia), Gospić (Croatia), Pljevlja (Montenegro), Bitola (Macedonia), Zaječar (Serbia).\n\nReko deserted from the JNA in April 1992. While wanting to preserve \"Brotherhood and Unity\", the real situation, when the war spilled over into Bosnia and his home village, forced him to leave the JNA. He had received information that Serb forces occupied Foča and his village. He contacted his ethnic Serb friend and JNA colleague Dragan Simić stationed in Niš, and told him that he was to leave to be with his family. Simić offered to help, and the two went for Bosnia. They crossed Serb-held territory into Bosniak-held territory in Goražde where Reko believed his family took refuge. His colleague saved him from Bosnian Serb policemen at Ustiprača.\n\nReko became the first commander of the 43rd Drina Assault Brigade () of ARBiH, based in Goražde. His high rank came as the result of his Military Academy diploma. His \"nom de guerre\" became \"Makedonac\" due to his years of service in Bitola. He was unable to meet up with his family in Gudelj, as that village was under Army of Republika Srpska (VRS) control. Serb soldiers killed his mother Aziza and grandfather (along with five other family members) while cleansing the village of the remaining people, through setting a house which held them on fire. Reko has stated that he knows of the perpetrators, and that one lives in Canada. A few days after, the Municipal headquarters of the Territorial Defense ordered that the Serb village of Bučje be cleansed as it posed a threat due to VRS progress. While an ideal chance for revenge, Reko refused, and was called weak and a traitor. He organized talks with the Bučje inhabitants for the peaceful surrender of them and their weapons. As a result, the village's 45 Serbs and few Bosniaks were saved. Reko learnt that he was an assassination target due to saving Serbs, and that orders came from people currently in the Bosnian government. After the war he set up a memorial to the killed members of his family.\n\nAfter the war, he moved to Denmark. He became a successful businessman, and established a family, with two children. He and his wife eventually divorced. In 2008, he met with his childhood romance Azra in Bosnia, who was a widow with two children. They eventually married.\n\nHe owns a Danish-Bosnian company \"Bohen\" that produces gaskets, parts of rubber and plastic and parts for water and heating. He currently lives in Denmark with his family. Reko established the political movement \"Most 21\", aimed at a multi-ethnic unitary state.\n\nA documentary on his life was made in 2016, called \"Makedonac\". There is plans of a movie. He has been interviewed by various newspapers and guested TV shows such as RTRS's \"Telering\", Prva's \"Život Priča\", Face's \"Face to Face\", Happy TV's \"Jutarnji program\", Elta's \"Razgovor\", OSMTV's \"Lice Nacije\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44486931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44486931", "title": "Ann Mara", "text": "Ann Mara\n\nAnn Mara (June 18, 1929 – February 1, 2015) was an American businesswoman, socialite, philanthropist, the wife and later widow of Wellington Mara, and the matriarch of the Mara family, which includes New York Giants CEO John Mara, and her granddaughters, actresses Rooney Mara and Kate Mara.\n\nMara was born Ann Maria Teresa Mumm in Manhattan, New York City, the daughter of Olive (née DuBord) and George Mumm. She was of German, French-Canadian, and Irish ancestry. She married Wellington Mara (1916–2005) in 1954 and had eleven children.\n\nAnn Mumm met Wellington Mara by chance when a woman fainted at a 7:30 a.m. Mass that they both regularly attended. Both Ann and Wellington rushed to her side to help. Three of their early dates took place at Yankee Stadium, Madison Square Garden, and the Fordham gymnasium. After that Ann and Wellington were married, in 1954. They took their honeymoon in Southern California. Ann and Wellington had 11 children (7 girls and 4 boys) and 42 grandchildren. All their girls attended Convent of the Sacred Heart.\n\nHer husband is considered to have been one of the most influential figures in the history of the National Football League as the owner of the New York Giants. Ann Mara had been called the \"First Lady of Football\". As a philanthropist, she donated money to various causes. In November 2014 she dedicated the opening of a new building for the San Miguel Academy for children at risk, which was built through the NFL Snowflake Foundation.\n\nMara was an active member of the Giants community. In 2012 she gained media attention after having an argument with Terry Bradshaw.\n\nMara was in good health until she fell on ice when she was fetching her newspaper outside of her Harrison home. Mara's housekeeper usually went to get the paper but on that day Mara went to get it herself. She died from pneumonia two weeks after her fall, on February 1, 2015. She was 85 years old. She was remembered with a moment of silence during Super Bowl XLIX; also, the Giants wore a patch on the right side of their uniforms, near the shoulders during the following season in her memory, with the letters \"ATM\" in black on a white circle background.\n"}
{"id": "28011378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28011378", "title": "Archibald Clark (politician)", "text": "Archibald Clark (politician)\n\nArchibald Clark (1805 – 17 October 1875) was a Scottish 19th-century Member of Parliament in the Auckland Region, New Zealand. He was the first Mayor of Auckland in 1851. His company, Archibald Clark and Sons, manufactured clothing and was a wholesaler.\n\nClark was born in Beith, Scotland, in 1805, the son of Andrew Clark. He attended the University of Glasgow to become a Presbyterian minister, but returned home to take over his ill father's business before completing his studies. His first wife was Margaret McCosh, the daughter of a wealthy coal mine owner. Their eldest son, James Clark, was born in 1833 in Beith and became a mayor of Auckland (1880–1883). Clark decided to emigrate and they left London on the barque \"Thames\" on 18 July 1849, and arrived in Auckland with his third wife and four children on 25 November.\n\nClark established a drapery store in Shortland Street in 1850 and initially imported, but later manufactured clothing. In 1856 or 1857, his son James became a partner in the business, which became known as Archibald Clark and Sons. The company became quite large, at one time having 500 employees. Their building on the corner of Wellesley Street West and Elliott Street in the Auckland CBD, built in 1910, is registered with the New Zealand Historic Places Trust as a Category II heritage structure. The company ceased trading in 1928.\n\nIn 1851, local government was inaugurated in Auckland with the establishment of the Borough of Auckland. Clark was elected as the inaugural and only mayor of the borough council, serving in 1851–1852. However the legality of Auckland's elevation as a Borough was legally contested and overturned. Auckland was placed under the care of a Board of Governors, whose Chairman was Archibald Clark. He was succeeded by Walter Lee, who was chairman in 1852–1854. It was not until 1871, that Auckland was formally incorporated and Philip Philips was elected as the first mayor of the city council (by the other city councillors and not by popular vote).\n\nHe represented the City of Auckland electorate in 1860, until he was defeated (for the Newton electorate). He then represented Auckland East from 1866 to 1870, and Franklin from 1871 to 1874, when he resigned due to failing health.\n\nClark was also a member of the Auckland Provincial Council, representing the Auckland East electorate in the 5th Council from January 1867 to November 1868.\n\nClark read widely, an interest that he obtained during his time at university. He was well liked by his friends, and was regarded by all for his integrity and conduct. He was active in St Andrew's Church and was one of the leading members of the congregation. The church is the oldest surviving church building in Auckland as of 2015, and registered with the New Zealand Historic Places Trust as a Category I heritage building.\n\nClark died on 17 October 1875 at his residence in Remuera. For almost two years, he had not participated in public life due to failing health.\n\nHe was buried three days later at Symonds Street Cemetery.\n\nHis widow, Kate Emma McCosh Clark, wrote the first New Zealand children's story \"A southern cross fairy tale\", which she partly illustrated, published in London in 1891.\n"}
{"id": "15297922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15297922", "title": "Atlantique City Antiques Show", "text": "Atlantique City Antiques Show\n\nAtlantique City Antiques & Collectibles Show was New Jersey's largest and longest running indoor antiques show. Founded in 1986, it is held in the Atlantic City Convention Center, in Atlantic City, New Jersey. \n\nAtlantique City was founded as an antique toy show by Norman Schaut, a former New York advertising agency executive best known for the \"Don’t Squeeze the Charmin\" campaign.\n\nMore than 500 dealers set up at Atlantique City every March and October.\n\nKrause Publications of Iola, Wisconsin purchased Atlantique City in 2001. The show is now owned by F+W Media, following the sale of Krause Publications in 2002.\n\nIn August 2009, F+W Media announced the cancellation of the show that had been scheduled for March 27–28, 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43646046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43646046", "title": "Bonsucro", "text": "Bonsucro\n\nBonsucro is an international not for-profit, multi-stakeholder organization established in 2008 to promote sustainable sugar cane. Its stated aim is to reduce 'the environmental and social impacts of sugarcane production while recognising the need for economic viability'\n. It does this through setting sustainability standards and certifying sugar cane products including ethanol, sugar and molasses. As of November 2014, 3.7% of global land under sugar cane was Bonsucro certified, with member organisations spread over 20 countries. Bonsucro has 207 members from various countries and sectors across the world. These are predominantly companies and grower associations involved in the sugar cane sector.\n\nBonsucro is one of few certifications to have developed measures for greenhouse gas emissions, and consequently the European Commission has stated that the Bonsucro standard can be used to demonstrate compliance with the EU Renewables Directive (EU RED) when importing ethanol fuel, although the standard had to be altered to comply fully. Both Bonsucro and the standards set by the Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials have been noted as in practise expanding the EU RED guidelines to include other factors, such as land tenure issues as prescribed by national law.\n\nEU market access has been labeled as important by Colombian policy-makers, and described as driving the country's national policy aiming for 40% Bonsucro sugarcane. However, this use of certification in the context of biofuels has caused concern regarding the consequences of intensification in Colombia, although as of November 2014 no mills had yet achieved certification in the country. The first Bonsucro certified ethanol fuel, from Brazil, was first imported into Europe through the Port of Rotterdam in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "37023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37023", "title": "Conservatorship", "text": "Conservatorship\n\nConservatorship is a legal concept in the United States. A guardian or a protector is appointed by a judge to manage the financial affairs and/or daily life of another due to physical or mental limitations, or old age. A person under conservatorship is a \"conservatee,\" a term that can refer to an adult. A person under guardianship is a \"ward,\" a term that can also refer to a minor child.\n\nThe conservator may be only of the \"estate\" (financial affairs), but may be also of the \"person,\" wherein the conservator takes charge of overseeing the daily activities, such as health care or living arrangements of the conservatee. A conservator of the person is more typically called a legal guardian.\n\nConservatorship is established either by court order (with regard to individuals) or via a statutory or regulatory authority (with regard to organizations such as business entities). In other legal terms, a conservatorship may refer to the legal responsibilities over a person who is mentally disordered, including individuals who are psychotic, suicidal, demented, incapacitated, or in some other way unable to make legal, medical or financial decisions on behalf of themselves.\n\nWhen referring to government control of private corporations such as Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae, conservatorship implies a more temporary control than does nationalization.\n\nConservatorship is a legal term referring to the legal responsibilities of a conservator over the affairs of a person who has been deemed gravely disabled by the court and unable to meet his or her basic needs of food, clothing, and shelter. They are governed by the state's individual laws. Terminology varies, and some states or jurisdictions may refer to a conservator as a guardian of the estate or as a trustee.\n\nConservatorships are generally put in place for severely mentally ill individuals who are gravely disabled, elderly individuals with dementia or Alzheimer's disease who lack mental capacity, or individuals with developmental disabilities who may or may not lack mental capacity. Mental capacity normally must to be evaluated by a medical physician or a psychiatrist experienced in the field and is documented and provided to the court as evidence.\n\nIn the state of California there are two types of conservatorships: Lanterman–Petris–Short (Lanterman–Petris–Short Act of 1967, referred to as LPS) and Probate conservatorships. These forms of conservatorship are governed by the California Probate Code, and Welfare and Institutions Codes.\n\nA \"limited conservatorship\" usually refers to the limited legal responsibilities of a conservator over the affairs of an individual who is developmentally disabled, but still capable of making important decisions for himself or herself. In these cases, the conservatee to whom the limited conservatorship applies can retain more control over his or her personal affairs than other conservatees can; for example, he or she may retain his or her right to decide where he or she may live.\n\nAn example of a conservator's duties includes: locating and marshalling assets, such as property and money, which belong to the conservatee; using the assets to buy food for the conservatee, secure and pay for placement in a facility which would take care of the conservatee or treat a mental illness, pay bills for the conservatee, manage property by paying for property insurance, mortgage payments or rent, property clean-up, or pay for a property management company to rent the property. An example of a conservator or guardian's medical responsibilities would be the court granting medical authority to the conservator or guardian, and the conservator or guardian authorizing a physician to place a feeding tube to provide nourishment into the protected person's stomach if they are in medical need of it. It is not uncommon for one person to hold both offices and be referred to as the \"guardian and conservator\" of the conservatee, even though a conservator or guardian can be appointed over the person only, the estate only, or both. Generally, a conservator or guardian over the estate is only appointed if the conservatee has assets that need to be protected, marshalled, and managed. These terms may be found in use in U.P.C. jurisdictions, even though the U.P.C. uses the term \"protected person\" in either case.\n\nIn most states, an outside party or agency must review the facts of the case and submit a report, usually required to be in writing, to the court before the court makes a decision on the request to establish a conservatorship or guardianship. Usually the outside party is a local County Mental Health representative called an investigator. They are often required to be experts in some appropriate field, such as social work, mental health, a medical field, or law. Procedures for conservatorship of an adult are often different from those for minors. \n\nThe court may appoint an attorney to represent the proposed conservatee or ward. If the proposed conservatee or ward is unable to have an attorney-client relationship because of some impairment, the court may appoint a guardian-ad-litem (who is often also an attorney). A guardian-ad-litem does not take instruction from the client, but rather acts on their behalf and tells the court what they think is in the best interests of the proposed conservatee or ward, whether or not that is what the proposed conservatee or ward wants. The conservatee has the right to be represented by an attorney, and if they cannot afford a private attorney, they are appointed a public defender that will represent them free of cost.\n\nLPS conservatorships begin with a temporary 30-day conservatorship, and if the conservatee remains gravely disabled, the conservator is reappointed for a year; the LPS conservatorship can be renewed annually, or terminated if no longer needed. Probate conservatorships are referred to as \"general conservatorships\", and typically do not have a temporary period unless an urgent emergency exists that is creating risk to the person or their estate. Probate conservatorship do not automatically expire as LPS conservatorships do if they are not renewed by the conservator.\n\nIn an LPS conservatorship, a court-appointed conservator over the person is responsible for managing the conservatee's placement, medical decisions, and mental health treatment. A conservator over the estate is responsible for marshalling, protecting, and managing the conservatee's assets that remain in their estate. A conservator reports to the court that appointed them, and is monitored by the supervising judicial court in the county in which the conservatee permanently resides.\n\nLPS conservatorships usually begin in the County Mental Health system and are referred from acute psychiatric hospitals, where Probate conservatorships can result from any referral source if validated with property medical documentation. Mental Health consumers have the right to a Patient's Rights advocate, and are taken through a series of hearings while they are in the acute hospital before they reach the point of needing a conservator.\n\nIn the United States, in some states, corporations can be placed under conservatorship, as a less extreme alternative to receivership. Whereas a receiver is expected to terminate the rights of shareholders and managers, a conservator is expected merely to assume those rights, with the prospect that they will be relinquished.\nRobert Ramsey & John Head, law professors who specialize in financial issues, suggest that an insolvent bank should go into receivership rather than conservatorship to guard against false hope and moral hazard.\n\nAt the federal government level in the United States, in July 2008, the failing IndyMac Bank was taken into administrative receivership by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and its assets and secured liabilities transferred to a specially established bridge bank called IndyMac Federal Bank, FSB which was placed into conservatorship, also by the FDIC.\n\nAgain, in the U.S. at the federal level, in September 2008, the chief executive officers, and board of directors Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were dismissed, and the companies were placed into the conservatorship of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) via the determination of its director James B. Lockhart III, with the support and financial backing of U.S. Treasury via Treasury secretary Hank Paulson's commitment to keep the corporations solvent.\nThe intervention leading to the conservatorship of these two entities has become the largest in government history, and was justified as necessary step to prevent the damage to the financial system that would have been caused by their failure. Entities like this are considered too big to fail.\n\nAn even more ambitious use of the conservatorship model has been proposed by Duke professors Lawrence Baxter, Bill Brown and Jim Cox. They suggest that the troubled U.S. banks be placed in conservatorship, that some of their \"good assets\" be dropped into newly created \"good bank\" subsidiaries (presumably under new management), and the remaining \"bad assets\" be left to be managed under the supervision of a conservatorship structure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7674707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7674707", "title": "Copyfraud", "text": "Copyfraud\n\nCopyfraud refers to false copyright claims by individuals or institutions with respect to content that is in the public domain. Such claims are wrongful, at least under U.S. and Australian copyright law, because material that is not copyrighted is free for all to use, modify and reproduce. Copyfraud also includes overreaching claims by publishers, museums and others, as where a legitimate copyright owner knowingly, or with constructive knowledge, claims rights beyond what the law allows. \n\nThe term \"copyfraud\" was coined by Jason Mazzone, a Professor of Law at the University of Illinois. Because copyfraud carries little or no oversight by authorities and few legal consequences, it exists on a massive scale, with millions of works in the public domain falsely labelled as copyrighted. Payments are therefore unnecessarily made by businesses and individuals for licensing fees. Mazzone states that copyfraud stifles valid reproduction of free material, discourages innovation and undermines free speech rights. Other legal scholars have suggested public and private remedies, and a few cases have been brought involving copyfraud.\n\nMazzone describes copyfraud as:\n\nMazzone argues that copyfraud is usually successful because there are few and weak laws criminalizing false statements about copyrights, lax enforcement of such laws, few people who are competent to give legal advice on the copyright status of commandeered material, and few people willing to risk a lawsuit to resist the fraudulent licensing fees:\nMazzone continues: \"[C]opyfraud upsets the constitutional balance and undermines First Amendment values\", chilling free expression and stifling creativity.\n\nIn the U.S. Copyright Act, only two sections deal with improper assertions of copyright on public domain materials: Section 506(c) criminalizes fraudulent uses of copyright notices, and Section 506(e) punishes knowingly making a false representation of a material fact in the application for copyright registration. Section 512(f) additionally punishes using the safe harbor provisions of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act to remove material the issuer knows is not infringing. But the U.S. Copyright Act does not expressly provide for any civil actions to remedy claims of copyright on public domain materials, nor does the Act prescribe relief for individuals who refrain from copying or pay for copying permission to an entity that engages in copyfraud. Professor Peter Suber argued in a 2011 article that the United States should \"make the penalties for copyfraud (false claim of copyright) at least as severe as the penalties for infringement; that is, take the wrongful decrease in the circulation of ideas at least as seriously as the wrongful increase in the circulation of ideas.\"\n\nSection 202 of the Australian Copyright Act 1968, which imposes penalties for \"groundless threats of legal proceedings\", provides a cause of action in that country for any false claims of copyright infringement. This includes false claims of copyright ownership of public domain material, or claims to impose copyright restrictions beyond those permitted by the law.\nAmerican legal scholar Paul J. Heald, in a 1993 paper published in the \"Journal of Intellectual Property Law\", explored the possibility that payment demands for spurious copyrights might be resisted in civil lawsuits under a number of commerce-law theories: (1) Breach of warranty of title; (2) unjust enrichment; (3) fraud; and (4) false advertising. Heald cited a case in which the first of these theories was used successfully in a copyright context: \"Tams-Witmark Music Library v. New Opera Company\". In this case[A]n opera company purchased the right to perform the opera \"The Merry Widow\" for $50,000 a year. After a little more than a year of performances, the company discovered that the work had passed into the public domain several years before due to a failure on the part of the copyright holder to renew the copyright. It ceased paying royalties, and after being sued by the owner of the abandoned copyright, counterclaimed for damages in the amount paid to the owner on a breach of warranty/failure of consideration theory. The trial court awarded the opera company $50,500 in damages, and the court of appeals affirmed the judgement, finding that \"The Merry Widow\" \"passed, finally, completely and forever into the public domain and became freely available to the unrestricted use of anyone. ... New Opera's pleas of breach of warranty and total failure of consideration were established, and by undisputed proof.\"\n\nCory Doctorow, in a 2014 \"Boing Boing\" article, noted the \"widespread practice of putting restrictions on scanned copies of public domain books online\" and the many \"powerful entities who lobby online services for a shoot now/ask questions later approach to copyright takedowns, while the victims of the fraud have no powerful voice advocating for them.\" Professor Tanya Asim Cooper wrote that Corbis's claims to copyright in its digital reproductions of public domain art images are \"spurious ... abuses ... restricting access to art that belongs to the public by requiring payment of unnecessary fees and stifling the proliferation of new, creative expression, of 'Progress' that the Constitution guarantees. Charles Eicher pointed out the prevalence of copyfraud with respect to Google Books, Creative Commons' efforts to \"license\" public domain works, and other areas. He explained one of the copyfraudsters' unscrupulous methods: After you scan a public domain book, \"reformat it as a PDF, mark it with a copyright date, register it as a new book with an ISBN, then submit it to Amazon.com for sale [or] as an ebook on Kindle. Once the book is listed for sale ... submit it to Google Books for inclusion in its index. Google earns a small kickback on every sale referred to Amazon or other booksellers.\" Eicher suggests several remedies: Government should act [by using its regulatory power] to secure its authority over copyrights. ... Private interests should be prohibited from exerting pseudo-regulatory powers. ... Anti-trust actions could break up the newly forming publishing cartel [of Google and Amazon] before it becomes entrenched. ... Google's orphan books settlement should be given further judicial review and invalidated. ... Google and Amazon should be prohibited from offering books with false copyrights, the public should be empowered to flag copyfraud books and issue a take-down notice.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51103055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51103055", "title": "Dominic Lee", "text": "Dominic Lee\n\nDominic Lee Tsz-king (; 22 January 1984) is a Liberal Party politician in Hong Kong. He is a member of the Sham Shui Po District Council for Yau Yat Tsuen and the former chairman of the Liberal Party Youth Committee.\n\nLee was born in Hong Kong in 1984 to an upper-middle-class family. He was educated at the Diocesan Boys' School and the Li Po Chun United World College of Hong Kong and graduated from the Rice University in the United States in 2006 with a degree in economics. He working as an assistant in his campus polling station for the Democratic Party presidential candidate John Kerry in 2004 and later worked as an intern for Democrat member of the US House of Representatives Al Green.\n\nHe joined the pro-business conservative Liberal Party in 2009 after he returned to Hong Kong. Before that he had helped the party chairman James Tien running in New Territories East in 2004. He became the first chairman of the party's youth committee when it was established in 2011.\n\nLee is vocal for his conservative stances on economy, immigration and social issues. He is known for his strong words in opposition to universal retirement protection and was once sworn by an old lady even over the topic during a legislative council public hearing, which immediately went viral on the Internet.\n\nIn 2015, he supported the government's plan to scrap visa-free facility for Indians, defending the move as a \"sacrifice to protect our borders\". In 2016, he led the Alliance Demanding Repatriation of Refugees against \"fake\" refugees from Southeast Asia rush into Hong Kong. Moreover, he demanded quitting the United Nations Convention against Torture to block \"fake\" refugees from coming to Hong Kong. In May, he led an anti-refugee protest which drew 100 to 200 people as well as counter-protest.\n\nIn April 2016, he led a protest in Lan Kwai Fong are hitting back against the Equal Opportunities Commission's ruling of \"ladies' night\" being discriminatory.\n\nIn the 2011 District Council elections, Lee ran in Shek Lei Extension but was defeated by Democratic Party incumbent Leung Kwok-wah. In the 2015 District Council elections, he run for a safer constituency Yau Yat Tsuen where he lives, and won against League of Social Democrats candidate Dickson Chau Ka-faat, succeeding council chairman Jimmy Kwok Chun-wah as member of the Sham Shui Po District Council.\n\nIn 2016, he was nominated by the Liberal Party to lead a ticket in the New Territories East in the Legislative Council election, in which incumbent legislator and party honorary chairman James Tien will stand with him in second place.\n"}
{"id": "5358874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5358874", "title": "Engineering College Magazines Associated", "text": "Engineering College Magazines Associated\n\nEngineering College Magazines Associated (more commonly abbreviated as ECMA) is a group of student run, engineering based publications from across the United States. It was founded in 1920 mainly through the efforts of Mr. W.B. Littell of a New York advertising firm named Littell-Murray-Barnhill.\n\n\nAccording to the American Society for Engineering Education's \"Prism Magazine\", \"ECMA was created in the 1920s to be a single interface for companies wanting to recruit engineering graduates through ads in the magazines published by engineering colleges.\" There are records of ECMA member publications meeting for conferences as early as 1923.\n\nOver the years, ECMA has evolved into more of a professional society, granting acclaim to student engineering publications and allowing students’ access to many top workers in the publication industry, as well as the knowledge they possess. Every year, one school receives the honor of hosting the ECMA conference. The hosting university then has the opportunity to showcase their magazine, their university, and their way of life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33616691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33616691", "title": "Fayolism", "text": "Fayolism\n\nFayolism was a theory of management that analyzed and synthesized the role of management in organizations, developed around 1900 by the French management theorist Henri Fayol (1841–1925). It was through Fayol's work as a philosopher of administration that he contributed most widely to the theory and practice of organizational management.\nFayol believed by focusing on managerial practices he could minimize misunderstandings and increase efficiency in organizations. He enlightened managers on how to accomplish their managerial duties, and the practices in which they should engage. In his book \"General and Industrial Management\" (published in French in 1916, then published in English in 1949), Fayol outlined his theory of general management, which he believed could be applied to the administration of myriad industries. His concern was with the administrative apparatus (or functions of administration), and to that end he presented his \"administrative theory\", that is, principles and elements of management.\n\nHis theories and ideas were ideally a result of his environment—a post revolutionized France with an emerging republic bourgeois. A bourgeois himself, he believed in controlling workers to achieve greater productivity over all other managerial considerations. However, through reading \"General and Industrial Management,\" it is apparent that Fayol advocated a flexible approach to management, one he believed could be applied to any circumstance whether in the home, the workplace, or within the state. He stressed the importance and the practice of forecasting and planning in order to apply these ideas and techniques, which demonstrated his ability and emphasis in being able to adapt to any sort of situation. In \"General and Industrial Management\" he outlines an agenda whereby, under an accepted theory of management, every citizen is exposed and taught some form of management education and allowed to exercise management abilities first at school and later on in the workplace.\n\nFayol has been regarded by many as the father of the modern operational management theory, and his ideas have become a fundamental part of modern management concepts. Fayol is often compared to Frederick Winslow Taylor who developed Scientific Management. Taylor's Scientific Management deals with the efficient organization of production in the context of a competitive enterprise that is concerned with controlling its production costs. Taylor's system of scientific management is the cornerstone of classical theory. Fayol was also a classical theorist, and referred to Taylor in his writing and considered him a visionary and pioneer in the management of organizations.\n\nHowever, Fayol differed from Taylor in his focus. Taylor's main focus was on the task, whereas Fayol was more concerned with management. Another difference between the two theorists is their treatment of workers. Fayol appears to have slightly more respect for the worker than Taylor had, as evidenced by Fayol's proclamation that workers may indeed be motivated by more than just money. Fayol also argued for equity in the treatment of workers.\n\nAccording to Claude George (1968), a primary difference between Fayol and Taylor was that Taylor viewed management processes from the bottom up, while Fayol viewed it from the top down. In Fayol's book \"General and Industrial Management,\" Fayol wrote that He suggests that Taylor has staff analysts and advisors working with individuals at lower levels of the organization to identify the ways to improve efficiency. According to Fayol, the approach results in a \"negation of the principle of unity of command\". Fayol criticized Taylor’s functional management in this way. Those eight, Fayol said, were \nThis, he said, was an unworkable situation, and that Taylor must have somehow reconciled the dichotomy in some way not described in Taylor's works.\n\nFayol's desire for teaching a generalized theory of management stemmed from the belief that each individual of an organization at one point or another takes on duties that involve managerial decisions. Unlike Taylor, however, who believed management activity was the exclusive duty of an organizations dominant class. Fayol's approach was more in sync with his idea of Authority, which stated, \"...that the right to give orders should not be considered without the acceptance and understanding of responsibility.\"\n\nNoted as one of the early fathers of the \"Human Relations\" movements, Fayol expressed ideas and practices different from Taylor, in that they showed flexibility and adaptation, and stressed the importance of interpersonal interaction among employees.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, Fayol developed 14 principles of management to help managers manage their affairs more effectively. Organizations in technologically advanced countries interpret these principles quite differently from the way they were interpreted during Fayol's time as well. These differences in interpretation are in part a result of the cultural challenges managers face when implementing this framework. The fourteen principles are: \nWithin his theory, Fayol outlined five elements of management that depict the kinds of behaviors managers should engage in so that the goals and objectives of an organization are effectively met. The five elements of management are:\n\n\nFayol believed that animosity and unease within the workplace occurred among employees in different departments. Many of these \"misunderstandings\" were thought to be caused by improper communication, mainly through letters (or in present-day emails). Among scholars of organizational communication and psychology, letters were perceived to induce or solidify a hierarchical structure within the organization. Through this type of vertical communication, many individuals gained a false feeling of importance. Furthermore, it gave way to selfish thinking and eventual conflict among employees in the workplace.\n\nThis concept was expressed in Fayol's book, \"General and Industrial Management\", by stating,\" in some firms... employees in neighboring departments with numerous points of contact, or even employees within a department, who could quite easily meet, communicate with each other in writing... there is to be observed a certain amount of animosity prevailing between different departments or different employees within a department. The system of written communication usually brings this result. There is a way of putting an end to this deplorable system ... and that is to forbid all communication in writing which could easily and advantageously be replaced by verbal ones.\"\n\nFayol believed that managerial practices were key to predictability and efficiency in organizations. The Administrative theory views communication as a necessary ingredient to successful management and many of Fayol's practices are still alive in today's workplace. The elements and principles of management can be found in modern organizations in several ways: as accepted practices in some industries, as revamped versions of the original principles or elements, or as remnants of the organization's history to which alternative practices and philosophies are being offered. The U.S. military is a prime example of an organization that has continued to use these principles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2275789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2275789", "title": "GASB 34", "text": "GASB 34\n\nGASB stands for Governmental Accounting Standards Board.\n\nIn June 1999, GASB Statement 34 (or GASB 34) was published. The GASB Chairman characterized the statement as \"the most significant change to occur in the history of government financial reporting.\" GASB 34 provides a comprehensive framework for financial reporting with the objective of making annual reports easier to understand and more useful to the people who rely upon the financial condition contained therein. The most significant aspect of Statement 34 was that for the first time general infrastructure assets (such as roads, bridges and dams) were to be reported together with related depreciation or preservation costs.\n\nFor the valuation of infrastructure assets, the Statement authorized both a standard depreciation approach and a modified approach that relied upon asset management analysis and systems as acceptable methods. That action also authorized a combination of the two if, in the judgment of the agency, depreciation was appropriate for some asset classes while the modified approach was appropriate for others.\n\n"}
{"id": "723104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=723104", "title": "Harry F. Byrd", "text": "Harry F. Byrd\n\nHarry Flood Byrd Sr. (June 10, 1887 – October 20, 1966) of Berryville in Clarke County, Virginia, was an American newspaper publisher and political leader of the Democratic Party in Virginia for four decades as head of a political faction that became known as the Byrd Organization. Byrd served as Virginia's governor from 1925 until 1929, then represented the Commonwealth as a United States Senator from 1933 until 1965. He came to lead the \"conservative coalition\" in the United States Senate, and opposed President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, largely blocking most liberal legislation after 1937. His son Harry F. Byrd Jr. succeeded him as U.S. Senator, but ran as an Independent following the decline of the Byrd Organization.\n\nByrd succeeded to what had been the Virginia Democratic Party organization of U.S. Senator Thomas Staples Martin (who died in 1919). Elected the 50th Governor of Virginia in 1925, initially Byrd reorganized and modernized Virginia's government. His political machine dominated state politics for much of the first half of the 20th century.\n\nFinancial conditions in Virginia during Byrd's youth conditioned his thinking on fiscal matters and \"pay-as-you-go\" financial policies. Byrd was vehemently opposed to racial desegregation of the public schools, and was leader of \"massive resistance\", a campaign of opposition to the U.S. Supreme Court decisions in Brown v. Board of Education that led to closure of some public schools in Virginia in the 1950s. Students who were denied their education in several Virginia counties became known as the \"lost generation.\" Byrd was perceived as a racist and avowed white separatist. Although paying his black and white workers similarly, Byrd was vehemently opposed to racial desegregation even early in the New Deal, and later opposed Presidents Harry S. Truman and John F. Kennedy despite their also being Democrats (as well as losing Democratic Presidential candidate Adlai Stevenson) because they opposed racial discrimination within the federal workforce. The Byrd Organization also benefitted from limiting the political participation of blacks and poor whites in Virginia by means of poll taxes and literacy tests, but managed to crush opposition ranging from New Deal Governor James H. Price to gubernatorial and senatorial candidate Francis Pickens Miller. Although Byrd never announced as a presidential candidate, he received many votes in the 1956 presidential election and 15 electoral votes in the 1960 presidential election.\n\nHarry Flood Byrd was born in Martinsburg, West Virginia, in 1887 (just two weeks after future fellow Virginia Senator Absalom Willis Robertson was born in the same community). His parents, Eleanor Bolling (Flood) and Richard Evelyn Byrd Sr., moved the young family to Winchester, Virginia, the same year.\n\nYoung Harry Byrd's father became a wealthy apple grower in the Shenandoah Valley and published the \"Winchester Star\" newspaper. Harry initially attended the public schools, but received most of his education from the private Shenandoah Valley Academy in Winchester.\n\nByrd's ancestors included the First Families of Virginia. His paternal ancestors included William Byrd II of Westover Plantation (who established Richmond), Robert \"King\" Carter of Corotoman, and Pocahontas.\n\nOne younger brother was Naval aviator and Polar explorer Admiral Richard Evelyn Byrd (1888–1957). His other younger brother, Thomas Bolling Byrd (1890–1968) became an infantry captain during World War I. His uncle Henry De La Warr Flood served in the House of Representatives of the U.S. Congress from Appomattox County, Virginia, (1901 to 1921). Another uncle from Appomattox County, Joel West Flood, served as that county's Commonwealth Attorney (1919 to 1932), in the U.S. Congress (beginning in 1932 to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Henry St. George Tucker), as a Federal appellate Judge (of the Fifth Circuit based in Richmond), 1940 to 1964).\n\nBorn only twenty-two years after the end of the American Civil War, Byrd grew up in an era when \"the Shenandoah Valley was still a place of genteel poverty ... Harry Byrd never lacked food, but he had no money for luxuries. No one had any money. If a man got into debt, there was small chance of getting out of it.\"\n\nEven worse in Byrd's eyes was the dilemma of the state itself, which was also heavily in debt during Byrd's youth. Before the Civil War, Virginia had taken on debt to help finance many internal public improvements (canals, turnpikes, and railroads) through the Virginia Board of Public Works. Most had been destroyed during the War, although the debt remained and the infrastructure needed to be rebuilt to get crops and goods to market. Virginia's first postwar legislature had affirmed those debts at original terms (highly favorable to bondholders, which by then were mostly out-of-state purchasers at rates a small fraction of par value). Some related to improvements in the area that separated during the war to form the new State of West Virginia; those were litigated for decades until the United States Supreme Court ruled in 1915 that West Virginia owed Virginia $12,393,929.50. After the Reconstruction period, most of Virginia's governors insisted upon paying state bondholders, rather than pay for public education (newly added in Virginia Constitution of 1869) or other government services. The Readjuster Party, which briefly challenged the Conservative Party of Virginia which became the Virginia Democratic Party, advocated adjusting the terms of the prewar bonds, but had a relatively brief lifespan. Thus, the issue of Virginia's public debt was far from resolved during Byrd's formative years.\n\nByrd married Anne Douglas Beverley, a childhood friend, on October 7, 1913. They lived with her parents in Winchester until 1916, when he built a log cabin, named Westwood, in Berryville at a family-owned orchard, and they moved there. The cabin was constructed from chestnut logs and remains one of the few examples of natural chestnut bark existing in the United States due to the chestnut blight. The Byrds had three sons: Harry F. Byrd Jr., Bradshaw Beverley Byrd, and Richard Byrd, and one daughter, Westwood Beverly Byrd. In 1926, Byrd purchased Rosemont, an estate outside Berryville, adjacent to the family apple orchards. The family moved in 1929, at the end of Byrd's term as governor, after some renovations.\n\nAs a businessman, Byrd had several operations: publishing newspapers, running a local turnpike, and selling apples and apple products.\n\nIn 1903, Harry Byrd took over his father's newspaper, the \"Winchester Star.\" Under his father's ownership, it came to owe $2500 () to its newsprint supplier, the Antietam Paper Company. The company refused to ship more newsprint on credit, so Byrd cut a deal to make daily cash payments in return for ownership. As Byrd would later say, \"when you have to hunt for them that way, you get to know how many cents there really are in a dollar.\" He eventually bought the \"Harrisonburg Daily News-Record\" and several other papers in the Shenandoah Valley. His family operated these papers until April 1, 2018 when they were sold to The Ogden Newspapers Inc. of Wheeling, W.Va\n\nThus started what would become Byrd's famous \"pay-as-you-go\" policy. He developed a lifelong aversion to borrowing money and any indebtedness. \"I stand for strict economy in governmental affairs,\" Byrd proclaimed. \"The State of Virginia is similar to a great business corporation ... and should be conducted with the same efficiency and economy as any private business.\" In a fifty-year political career, no statement of Byrd's ever more succinctly spelled out his view of government.\n\nIn 1907, he founded \"The Evening Journal\" in nearby Martinsburg, West Virginia. He sold the paper in 1912 to associate Max von Schlegell.\n\nIn 1908, at the age of 21, he became president of The Valley Turnpike Company, overseeing the Valley Turnpike, a 93-mile (150-km) toll road between Winchester and Staunton. Earning $33 a month, he was required to drive the entire route at least twice a month to inspect it and arrange any repairs. As automobile traffic increased, he ensured road conditions were maintained within the available revenues. He held that office for seven years until his election to state office.\n\nByrd also owned extensive apple orchards in the Shenandoah Valley and an apple packing operation which was among the largest on the East Coast. He later pointed out that he paid his African American workers the same wages as his white farm workers.\n\nIn the 1950s, Edward P. Morgan's assistant visited Byrd's Northern Virginia farm during the apple harvest and was outraged by the living conditions of the migrant workers. This prompted Morgan to take up the issue of migrant labor in his CBS Radio Network commentaries. Producer Fred W. Friendly then prompted his close associate Edward R. Murrow to produce the television documentary \"Harvest of Shame\" on this issue.\n\nIn 1915, while still heading the Valley Turnpike Company, at the age of 28, Byrd was elected to the Virginia Senate. That election was to begin his 50 years of service in various roles in the state and federal government.\n\nAt the Virginia State Capitol in Richmond, as a new State Senator, Byrd was initially a progressive with an early interest in road improvements. He was a member of the Senate Committee on Roads, the Finance Committee, the Steering Committee, the Committee on Privileges and Elections, and the Committee of Schools and Colleges. He advocated a tax on gasoline as a fair method of raising revenue for road construction.\n\nHowever, he first came to prominence in 1922, when he led a fight against using bonded indebtedness as a method to pay for new roads. He feared the state would sacrifice future flexibility by committing too many resources to paying off construction debt. In 1923, Byrd was sued by the Virginia Highway Contractors Association because he said their activities \"by combination and agreements may be very detrimental\" to the State. The court dismissed the suit, stating the criticism was legal, imposing all costs upon the association. The publicity helped him to be elected Governor of Virginia in November 1925, easily defeating Republican Samuel H. Hoge in the general election.\n\nIn 1923, he became a member of the Virginia Society of the Sons of the American Revolution.\n\nAs governor, serving a term from 1926 to 1930, Byrd pushed through constitutional amendments that streamlined the state government and allowed for more efficient use of tax dollars. He also made property taxes solely a county responsibility. When it was obvious that increased spending on road construction was not enough to \"get Virginia out of the mud,\" he pushed through a secondary roads bill that gave the state responsibility for maintaining county roads. These measures made Byrd seem like a New South progressive at first. However, many of his measures were more to the benefit of rural areas more interested in low taxes than better services. He instituted a \"pay as you go\" approach to spending, in which no state money was spent until enough taxes and fees came in to pay for it. Highways and tourism were his primary pursuits, says his biographer. \"He advocated building roads to state shrines such as Jamestown and Monticello and called for historical markers along roadways, the first of which appeared in Fredericksburg. He held regional meetings to bring about closer cooperation between state and county road officials, prophesying that the road system could be completed within ten years through such cooperation... A tour of the highway system convinced him of the progress being made in extending the arterial network. Indeed, over 2,000 miles would be added to the system during Byrd's governorship, 1,787 of these miles in 1928. Road building was one way to keep the voters happy and prove the efficacy of pay-as-you-go.\"\n\nWhile he was governor, Byrd built up contacts with the \"courthouse cliques\" in most of Virginia's counties. He curried support from the five constitutional officers in those counties (sheriff, Commonwealth's attorney, clerk of the court, county treasurer, and commissioner of revenue). This formed the basis of the Byrd Organization, which dominated Virginia politics well into the 1960s. They carefully vetted candidates for statewide office, and Byrd only made an endorsement, or \"nod,\" after consulting with them. Without his \"nod,\" no one could win statewide office in Virginia. While he was governor, he shortened the ballot so that only three officials ran statewide: the governor, lieutenant governor and attorney general. This limited opportunities to challenge the candidates that he wanted to run. His secondary roads bill in 1932, which became known as the Byrd Road Act, did not apply to the state's independent cities.\n\nEducation was not on his agenda, and state spending for public schools remained very low until the 1960s. Byrd became one of the most vocal proponents of maintaining policies of racial segregation. Byrd authored and signed the \"Southern Manifesto\" condemning the 1954 U.S. Supreme Court decision in \"Brown v. Board of Education\". His call for \"massive resistance\" against desegregation of public schools led to many Virginia schools closing rather than be forced to integrate.\n\nHe helped draft a series of laws, known as the Stanley plan, to implement his \"massive resistance\" policy. This led to closure of some public school systems in Virginia between 1959 and 1964, most notably a five-year gap in public education in Prince Edward County, Virginia.\n\nIn the 1928 U.S. presidential campaign, he supported Al Smith, the Democratic Governor of New York, who would go on to lose to Republican Herbert Hoover. Byrd himself was an early favorite for the 1932 presidential nomination, but he opted to endorse Franklin D. Roosevelt at the right moment and became an official in Roosevelt's successful campaign.\n\nIn 1933 Byrd was appointed to fill a vacancy in the United States Senate; he won reelection as a Democrat in 1933, 1934, 1940, 1946, 1952, 1958, and 1964. Byrd and his colleague Carter Glass invoked senatorial courtesy to stop Roosevelt's nomination of Floyd H. Roberts to a federal judgeship in Virginia in 1939. Byrd broke with Roosevelt and became an opponent of the New Deal, but he was an internationalist and strongly supported Roosevelt's foreign policy. As war loomed in 1941 Congress approved his proposal for a joint House–Senate committee to look into ways of eliminating nonessential expenditures. By late September, the Joint Committee on Reduction of Non-essential Federal Expenditures was in operation with Senator Byrd as Chairman; it built his national reputation as an economizer.\n\nBy the 1950s Byrd was one of the most influential senators, serving on the Armed Services Committee, and later as chairman of the Finance Committee. He often broke with the Democratic Party line, going so far as to refuse to endorse the reelection of liberal President Harry S Truman in 1948. He also refused to endorse Adlai Stevenson in 1952. He voted against public works bills, including the Interstate Highway System, and played a key role in the passing of the 1964 Revenue Act. He had blocked the bill until President Lyndon Johnson agreed to decrease the total budget to under $100 billion. Subsequently, he helped push the Act through.\n\nByrd retired from the Senate for health reasons in November 1965. His son, Harry F. Byrd Jr., was appointed his successor.\n\nAlthough Byrd never formally sought the presidency nor became his party's candidate, Southern Democrats drafted him in several campaigns between 1944 and 1960. At the 1944 Democratic National Convention, Southern delegates opposed to Roosevelt's New Deal and racial policies nominated Byrd as the party's presidential candidate. He was nominated by Ruth Nooney of Florida, who said she did so without his knowledge or consent. He won 89 delegate votes to Roosevelt's 1,086 (James Farley of New York got one vote). All the convention delegates from Louisiana, Mississippi and Virginia, and 12 of the 36 delegates from Texas voted for Byrd. In 1952, both the Constitution Party and the America First Party nominated Byrd for vice-president, and Douglas MacArthur for president, without the consent of either. The slate got 17,205 votes nationwide.\n\nIn 1956, the year that Byrd initiated the \"massive resistance\" campaign, the States' Rights Party of Kentucky named Byrd as a presidential candidate. He received 2,657 votes in that state; in South Carolina, in the same election, he received 88,509 votes as the choice of an independent (i.e. unpledged) slate of electors with the endorsement of former governor James Byrnes and Senator Strom Thurmond. In 1960, Byrd received 15 votes in the Electoral College: eight unpledged electors from Mississippi (all of that state's electoral votes), six unpledged electors from Alabama (the other 5 electoral votes from that state went to John F. Kennedy), and a faithless elector from Oklahoma (the other 7 electoral votes from that state went to Richard Nixon).\n\nByrd died in 1966. He was interred in Mount Hebron Cemetery in Winchester.\n\nPossibly his greatest legacy was the creation of Shenandoah National Park, as well as the Skyline Drive, the Blue Ridge Parkway, and the Virginia state park system. Shenandoah National Park's main visitor center is named in his honor. The Blue Ridge Parkway bridge over the James River in Big Island, Va was named and dedicated to him in 1985.\nVirginia State Route 7, a historic road which leads from Alexandria past Berryville to Winchester and points west, is named the \"Harry F. Byrd Highway\" through much of its rural length. Byrd's home from 1926 until his death, Rosemont Manor, still exists and is surrounded by about 60 acres. Although many acres of Byrd's former orchards are now commercial and residential properties, Rosemont is now open to the public as a bed and breakfast, as well as event venue. Although probably eligible for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places and Virginia Landmarks Register, Rosemont appears outside the current Berryville Historic District as added in 1987.\n\nHarry F. Byrd Middle School, a National Blue Ribbon School located in Richmond was renamed Quioccasin Middle School in July, 2016 in response to a campaign by the local community; board members agreed \"that having a school named after a man who supported school segregation was inappropriate.\" Quioccasin is the name of the road the school sits on, as well as the name of a historically black village in the area.\n\nSpecific\nGeneral\n\n"}
{"id": "33623717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33623717", "title": "Hellmut Röhnisch", "text": "Hellmut Röhnisch\n\nHellmut Röhnisch, born 1914 in Zeitz in Germany, died 1996 in Örebro in Sweden was a universal language activist, businessman and athlete.\nRöhnisch went to school in Kassel in Germany. He left Germany with a group of countrymen in 1932. Thus escaping being arrested and prosecuted for his engagement in the German trade union movement in a situation where political circumstances were in turmoil. Röhnisch eventually settled in Örebro in Sweden after travelling, mainly by foot, through Poland, the Baltic states and Finland.\nIn 1945 Röhnisch won the first ever Swedish Championship in gymnastics. Röhnisch was engaged as a judge and interpreter for competitions in gymnastics in all World Championships and Olympic Games until 1988 in Seoul. For his contributions Röhnisch was awarded an honorary membership of the International Gymnastics Federation (FIG).\n\nIn 1945 Röhnisch set up a company specialized in gymnastics apparatus. Eventually the company included sportswear in its offering. The company, Röhnisch Sportswear, is managed by descendants and is since 2002 specialized in sportswear for women.\nAs a child Hellmut Rönnisch learnt Ido from his father Ewald Röhnisch, a leading figure in the German Ido movement. Hellmut Röhnisch was very active in the Ido movement both internationally and in Sweden and served many years as chairman both in the International Union of Ido (ULI) and the Swedish Ido Association. \n\nWhen the Swedish Ido Association was dissolved in 1996 the assets of the association were used to set up the Ido-foundation for Language Research in Memory of Hellmut Röhnisch. The foundation has since then made important contributions to linguistic science and the universal language movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "2553217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2553217", "title": "Jean Ango", "text": "Jean Ango\n\nJean Ango (italianized version for Jehan Angot) (1480–1551) was a Norman ship-owner who provided ships to king of France Francis I for exploration of the globe. A native of Dieppe, Ango took over his father's import-export business, and ventured into the spice trade with Africa and India. He was one of the first French to challenge the monopoly of Spain and Portugal, in addition to trading with the eastern Mediterranean, the British Isles, and the Low Countries. He also helped to finance the voyages of Giovanni da Verrazzano and Jacques Cartier. \n\nHis father (also named Jean Ango) sent two ships to Newfoundland in an early colonization attempt, including Jehan Denis and Thomas Aubert as captain of the \"Pensée\".\nTheir arrival in 1508 is the second recorded voyage of a French ship to the Grand Banks after the expedition of John Cabot. After his father's death (probably in the final years of the reign of King Louis XII), the younger Jean Ango stopped any personal participation in trading voyages and settled in Dieppe with his inherited fortune.\n\nHe eventually controlled a fleet, partially or alone, of 70 ships, including merchant ships and fishing vessels. Although he funded expeditions for trade and exploration, and used his ships (legally) for wartime raids, \"he also sponsored voyages whose only purpose was piracy\".\n\nAngo was an intimate friend of King Francis I. In 1521 he was styled Viscount of Dieppe, and in 1533, after the king had visited him in his mansion in Normandy, captain of Dieppe. When John III of Portugal confiscated one of his ships which carried plunder from captured vessels, Ango received the French king's permission to respond. Acting under a letter of marque issued on 26 July 1530, he harassed the Portuguese fleet in the Atlantic, and even threatened to block the port of Lisbon. On 15 August 1531, the Portuguese king agreed to pay reparations of 60,000 ducats in return for Ango's agreement to stop his actions and surrender the letter of marque which permitted them.\n\nHe lost popularity under King Henry II. Already nearly bankrupt after his forced participation in a royal armament project, he was imprisoned after 1549 for failing to pay taxes on his profits from privateering.\n\nIn his book \"La chanson des pilotes\", he was the first to describe in writing the use of tobacco.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17476979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17476979", "title": "John Fletcher (New Zealand politician)", "text": "John Fletcher (New Zealand politician)\n\nJohn Shearer Fletcher (22 December 1888 – 15 February 1934) was a New Zealand member of the House of Representatives for in Auckland. Born in Scotland, he came to New Zealand in 1916 to join his brothers in their construction business, out of which grew Fletcher Construction.\n\nFletcher was born at Kirkintilloch, Scotland, the son of a builder, John Shearer Fletcher, and his wife, Janet Montgomery. He received his entire education through scholarships. He was one of thirteen children.\n\nBy age 24, he was headmaster under the Kirkintilloch school board for technical and commercial classes. He then moved to Glasgow and became secretary for the Scottish Class Teachers' Association, and was on the executive of the Scottish Education Institute. He was vice-president of the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA). He undertook studies in construction in the United States and in Canada.\n\nIn 1916, Fletcher migrated to Dunedin, New Zealand, to join his brothers in their construction business. The company had been founded in 1909 after his brother James had come to Dunedin in the previous year. His brother James started to concentrate on business in Auckland and Wellington, and John Shearer Fletcher took over the Dunedin branch. Fletcher was an executive member of the Dunedin Manufacturers' Association. Of poor health, he retired from business during the 1920s and moved to Auckland.\n\nJohn Fletcher represented the electorate in the House of Representatives from to 1931. In the 1928 election, Fletcher defeated Fred Bartram for Grey Lynn. After having threatened his government in September 1929 to cross the house over unemployment and economic issues, Fletcher became an Independent during 1930. In the , he was defeated by John A. Lee of the Labour Party.\n\nFletcher married Alice Emily Murphy in 1919. In Auckland, Fletcher participated in public life, and he was active with the YMCA, other social movements, and belonged to the Rotary Club. He was interested in politics and economics, and involved in association football, cricket, and lawn bowls. He died on 15 February 1934 and is buried at Hillsborough Cemetery in Auckland. His wife died on 28 June 1976.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "212031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212031", "title": "John Paul Getty Jr.", "text": "John Paul Getty Jr.\n\nSir John Paul Getty, (; born Eugene Paul Getty; 7 September 1932 – 17 April 2003), was a British philanthropist and book collector. He was the third of five sons born to Jean Paul Getty Sr. (1892–1976), one of the richest men in the world at the time, and his wife Ann Rork. The Getty family's wealth was the result of the oil business founded by George Franklin Getty. At birth he was given the name Eugene Paul Getty, but in later life he adopted other names, including Paul Getty, John Paul Getty, Jean Paul Getty Jr., and John Paul Getty II. \n\nIn 1986, he was awarded an honorary knighthood for services to causes ranging from cricket, to art and to the Conservative Party. His honorary knighthood would eventually become substantive upon the required acquisition of British citizenship. A long-time Anglophile, he became a British citizen in 1997. In 1998 he changed his name by deed poll when he renounced the first name Eugene and wished to be known as Sir Paul Getty, KBE.\n\nJohn Paul Jr. was born onboard ship in the waters near Genoa, Italy, on September 7, 1932, while his parents Ann and J. Paul Getty Sr. were travelling. His birth was registered at La Spezia with the name Eugenio Paul Getty, when the Italian notary misheard the name John. He would legally alter his name with the Italian authorities to John Paul in 1958.\n\nHe was initially raised in Los Angeles, California. His parents' marriage was troubled by J. Paul's long absences abroad and his emotional distance. Ann Getty divorced J. Paul Getty Sr. in 1936 in Reno, Nevada, claiming emotional cruelty and neglect. She was awarded $1,000 per month in child support for each of her sons, Paul Jr. and Gordon.\n\nIn 1938, Ann married her third husband, Joseph Stanton McInerney, and the family moved to San Francisco. Paul Jr. attended St. Ignatius College Preparatory and the University of San Francisco, both Jesuit schools. Throughout his adolescence he showed a great interest in reading and music, encouraged by his mother. In 1950 he was drafted to serve in the Korean War, spending the duration working at the American headquarters in Seoul, South Korea. After he was discharged he met Abigail Harris, the daughter of a prominent San Franciscan Federal judge, and the two were married in early 1956. His first child, John Paul Getty III was born in November, 1956. The following year he approached his brother, Gordon Peter Getty, vice-president of the Getty subsidiary Tidewater Petroleum, asking for a job. His brother gave him a job pumping gas at a Tidewater gas station in San Francisco. After a year, his father (whom he had not seen in 12 years) was favourably impressed enough to invite him and the family to Paris, where he offered Paul Jr. a job as President of Getty Oil's Italian subsidiary, Getty Oil Italiana, in Rome.\n\nHis first marriage was to Abigail \"Gail\" Harris, a former water polo champion. They divorced in 1964, having had four children including John Paul Getty III and Mark Getty.\n\nHis second marriage was to the Dutch actress, model and style icon Talitha Pol (stepdaughter of painter Augustus John's daughter Poppet) on 10 December 1966. The two posed for an iconic photograph on a roof-top in Marrakesh, Morocco in January 1969. The photo, taken by Patrick Lichfield, shows Talitha Getty crouched down leaning on a wall and her husband in the background in a hooded djellaba and sunglasses. The photo appeared in American \"Vogue\" and again in the September 1999 issue of American \"Vogue\" and is part of the collection of the National Portrait Gallery in London. Two and a half years after the photo was taken, Talitha died of a heroin overdose on 14 July 1971. She was survived by her son with Getty: Tara Gabriel Gramophone Galaxy Getty (born June 1968), an ecological conservationist in Africa. In 1994, he married for the third and final time, to Victoria Holdsworth (Lady Getty)\n\nAfter he married Talitha in 1966, the couple became immersed in the 1960s counter culture, living between Rome and Marrakesh, Morocco. During a trip to Thailand, the couple developed serious heroin addictions. When Getty Sr., who abhorred drug-taking of any kind, heard of his son's addiction, he insisted on his becoming sober. Paul Jr. refused and tendered his resignation from Getty Oil Italiana. The couple lived off his income from the family trust, which amounted to $100,000 a year. In 1969, he and Talitha separated as she decided to focus on becoming sober. He purchased No. 16 Cheyne Walk in Chelsea, London, where the Victorian artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti had lived in the 1860s, for Talitha and their baby son Tara to live in, while he remained in Rome.\n\nAfter living apart for several years, Talitha, who was sober at the time, asked Paul Jr. for a divorce in early 1971. Still in love with his wife, he insisted that she come to Rome and try for a reconciliation. When her lawyer advised her that divorce proceedings would be easier if she could show that she had attempted reconciliation with Paul, she left for Rome on 9 July. On the morning of 14 July 1971, she was found dead in the Getty apartment in Piazza d'Aracoeli. The autopsy ruled that she had alcohol and barbiturates in her system, but rumours flared up that she had suffered a heroin relapse while spending time with Getty, who was still embroiled in his addiction. \n\nIn December 1971, Italian authorities announced that an inquest would be held into Talitha's death the following March; they requested that Getty meet with investigators to describe the circumstances surrounding her death. Afraid that his own drug addiction would result in his being indicted and potentially imprisoned, Getty left for England. He ignored a subsequent request by an Italian judge to return to Italy for the inquest. Neither an arrest warrant, nor an extradition request was ever issued, since Getty was never a suspect in Talitha's death, but he never returned to Italy for fear of being detained.\n\nAfter his second wife's death, Getty became reclusive for a time and his heroin addiction worsened, fueled by guilt for his wife's death. In 1973, his eldest son, John Paul Getty III, was kidnapped in Rome by Calabrian 'Ndrangheta mobsters and held in the Calabrian Mountains, chained to a stake in a cave. Getty did not have enough money to pay the $17 million ransom demand, and his father refused to help, saying \"I have 13 other grandchildren, and if I pay one penny now, then I will have 14 kidnapped grandchildren.\" However, when one of his son's ears was delivered by mail to a newspaper in Rome (delivery had been delayed by three weeks because of a postal strike), his father finally agreed to help out with the ransom through a $2.2 million payment (the maximum that was tax-deductible) and a $1 million loan which he extended to his son at 4% interest.\n\nIn 1976, Getty's father died. Over the next decade Getty suffered from depression and, in a final attempt to end his drug addiction, checked himself into the London Clinic in 1984. While there he received a visit from the then-Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher to thank him for large donations to the National Gallery. She reportedly helped speed his recovery by telling him, \"My dear Mr. Getty, we mustn't let things get us down, must we? We'll have you out of here as soon as possible.\" During a low period in the 1970s Getty had been cheered up by the former England cricketer and later President of the MCC, Gubby Allen, having previously been introduced to the game by Mick Jagger of the Rolling Stones.\n\nPaul III struggled with PTSD from his kidnapping for years, self-medicating with alcohol and drugs. In April 1981 he suffered a major drug overdose which left him paralyzed and almost completely blind. The following November, his mother Gail sued her ex-husband for $25,000 per month to support their son's medical expenses. Despite the fact that Paul II was earning over $20 million a year from his family trust, he had refused to pay a penny towards the treatment, leaving his brother Gordon to pay his nephew's expenses. The litigation judge who allowed the case to go to trial scolded Paul Jr.: \"Mr. Getty should be ashamed of himself spending far more money on court obligations than living up to his moral duties.\" Claiming that he doubted the severity of his son's debilitation, Getty sent his lawyer to Los Angeles to confirm it firsthand, which led him to finally agree to shouldering the costs.\n\nDuring his nine-month stint in the London Clinic, Getty decided to purchase a dilapidated country estate west of London, Wormsley Park, on the advice of his close friend Christopher Gibbs. After his release in March 1986, he devoted himself to remodeling the 18th-century mansion and restoring the 3,000 acres of parkland. This included the creation of a deer park, the reforestation of 1,500 acres of beechwood forest, and the dredging of a man-made 4 acre lake filled with water tapped from an aquifer 400 feet below ground. Along with the restoration of the Georgian mansion house, overseen by Gibbs, Getty added a castle-like addition made of local flint built to house his extensive library, an indoor heated pool, and a replica of The Oval cricket ground. To house his disabled son, he had an accessible cottage built near the pool, from where he could do his water rehabilitation exercises. The 6-year project cost an estimated ₤60 million.\n\nFrom Wormsley, Getty was able to host his long-estranged family and gradually improve his relations with his children and ex-wife. To inaugurate his professional cricket ground, Getty hosted a match in September 1992 captained by the Cricketing legends Imran Khan and Bob Wyatt, with the Prime Minister John Major and Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother as his guests of honour.\n\nGetty donated over £140m to various artistic and cultural causes. The National Gallery alone received £50m from him. He was appointed Knight of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) in 1987, but as a foreign national he could not use the title \"Sir\". In December 1997 he was granted British citizenship and immediately renounced his US nationality. The Queen reportedly commented: \"Now you can use your title. Isn't that nice?\"\n\nHe became President of Surrey County Cricket Club for one year, and gave money to Lord's Cricket Ground to build a new stand. He combined his loves of cricket and books when he purchased the ownership of \"Wisden\", the famous publishers of the cricketing almanack. Getty built an extraordinary library at Wormsley, collecting such treasures as a first edition of Chaucer, Ben Jonson's annotated copy of Spenser, and Shakespeare Folios. He was a notable member of the exclusive Roxburghe Club, famous among book collectors. \n\nHis personal fortune was estimated as about £1.6 billion. He donated significant support for the National Gallery, the British Museum, the British Film Institute, Hereford Cathedral, St Paul's Cathedral, the Imperial War Museum, and St. James Catholic Church. Some of his donations, especially contributions towards the purchases of Canova's \"The Three Graces\" by The National Galleries of Scotland and the \"Madonna of the Pinks\" by Raphael, foiled acquisition efforts by the J. Paul Getty Museum endowed by his father. In June 2001, he gave £5 million to the Conservative Party. He endowed a ₤20 million charitable trust which supports the arts, conservation and social welfare.\n\nGetty died, aged 70, on 17 April 2003, having been admitted for treatment to a London hospital for a chest infection.\n\nGetty Jr. is portrayed by Andrew Buchan in the film \"All the Money in the World\" and by Michael Esper in the television series \"Trust\", both of which dramatize Getty III's kidnapping.\n\n"}
{"id": "5624733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5624733", "title": "John Shaffer Phipps", "text": "John Shaffer Phipps\n\nJohn Shaffer Phipps (August 11, 1874 – May 12, 1958) was an American lawyer and businessman who was an heir to the Phipps family fortune and a shareholder of his father-in-law's Grace Shipping Lines. He was a director of the Hanover Bank, U.S. Steel Corp. and W. R. Grace & Co.\n\nJohn Shaffer Phipps, who was known as \"Jay\", was born on August 11, 1874 in Allegheny, Pennsylvania to Henry Phipps (1839–1930) and Anne Childs Shaffer (1850–1934).\n\nHis father was the son of English born parents who emigrated to Philadelphia in the early part of the 19th century before settling in Pittsburgh in 1845. His father became an entrepreneur known for his business relationship with Andrew Carnegie and involvement with the Carnegie Steel Company.\n\nHis siblings were Amy Phipps (1872–1959), who married Frederick Edward Guest (1875–1937), Helen Margaret Phipps (1876–1934), who married Bradley Martin, Henry Carnegie Phipps (1879–1953), who married Gladys Livingston Mills (1883–1970), and Howard Phipps (1881–1981), who married Harriet Dyer Price.\n\nJohn Phipps amassed almost of rolling Virginia farm lands in The Plains, Virginia including Brenton, an 1889 stone manor house. He was a polo player and Thoroughbred racehorse owner, and the property assembled from 1928 onwards would be the site of his Rockburn Stud farm. Upon his death it passed to his son Hubert.\n\nPhipps purchased an old Quaker farm on Long Island where he built a large mansion with magnificent gardens that, following his death, became a non-profit organization that today is known as Old Westbury Gardens and is open to the public. \n\nIn the 1920s he purchased several large properties in West Palm Beach, Florida including one that was once used as a pineapple plantation. He subdivided the property and turned it into the three largest subdivisions containing luxury residential homes in what is now the El Cid Historic District. John Phipps built a home for himself he called \"Casa Bendita.\" A large oceanfront mansion in Palm Beach, Florida, it was designed in 1921 by architect Addison Mizner. Today, the property is occupied by his granddaughter, Susan Phipps Cochran, and her husband.\n\nOn November 4, 1903 he married Margarita Celia Grace (1876-1957) at Battle Abbey in Battle, East Sussex, England. She was the daughter of Michael P. Grace and niece of William Russell Grace, Irish immigrants who became very successful in business, founding the Grace Shipping Line. They spent their honeymoon, traveling via automobile, in India. John and Margarita had four children:\n\n\nHe died on April 27, 1958 in Palm Beach, Florida.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42296931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42296931", "title": "Johnnie Boden", "text": "Johnnie Boden\n\nJohn Peter Boden (born 1 June 1961), often shortened to Johnnie Boden, is an entrepreneur and founder of Boden, a catalogue clothing company, in 1991. As of 2014, Boden is worth £300 million.\n\nJohn Peter Boden was born on 1 June 1961. His father was a lieutenant colonel who changed careers to become a farmer. John Boden was educated at Hawtreys preparatory school, then Eton College, and read philosophy, politics, and economics (PPE) at Oriel College, Oxford.\n\nAt 16, he edited the menswear section of the 1977 \"Harpers & Queen Teenage Edition\", but Boden's father was \"dismissive\", calling it a \"stupid job\".\n\nAfter leaving university, Boden became a stockbroker with Barclays Merchant Bank, and SG Warburg Securities. spending some time at Wall Street. He was a stockbroker for five years. However, he \"loathed\" the job, and was \"ill-suited – really bad at it\". He ceased working as a stockbroker when he received an inheritance from a childless uncle. He dabbled in other jobs, as a publican and teacher in London. Boden enjoyed teaching, though disliked the low salaries.\n\nHe founded Boden in 1991, launching his first catalogue featuring pictures drawn by a friend, with eight menswear products available modelled by his friends. In 1992, Boden realised women were a better target for clothes, and launched women's clothing, followed by children's clothing, under the name 'Mini Boden', in 1996. However, it took \"at least 10 years\" for the finances to settle down due to robbery, and other circumstances; which ultimately led his inheritance to be gone in under three years. The firm is known for its \"bright prints\".\n\nHis foundation of Boden has enabled Boden to amass a personal fortune of £300mil (2014), placing him at 368 on the Sunday Times Rich List.\n\nBoden is married to Sophie, with whom he has three daughters.\n"}
{"id": "17339278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17339278", "title": "Karel Aalbers", "text": "Karel Aalbers\n\nKarel Aalbers (born June 28, 1949, Velp) was the President of the football club Vitesse Arnhem (Arnhem, the Netherlands) from 1984 until February 2000.\n\nAalbers' goal was to bring Vitesse from the bottom of the Second League (Eerste divisie, now Keuken Kampioen Divisie), where the club was when he\nstarted, to the top 40 soccer clubs of Europe.\n\nHe developed the basic idea for the ‘Gelredome’, a stadium with a sliding pitch that can be moved out of the building. Later, the same system was applied in Gelsenkirchen (Schalke 04) and in Japan. Events such as pop concerts can be held without damaging the grass. Gelredome opened in 1998. It has a roof that can be opened and closed. It is fully climate controlled as well. In the first season after the opening, Gelredome's attendance rose to 20,000, (from less than 8,000 in the old stadium.)\n\nHe financed the ambitions by making solid profits on the transfer market. Players such as Roy Makaay, Sander Westerveld, Nikos Machlas, Glenn Helder and Philip Cocu were sold for large sums of money. Others came to occupy empty player positions, such as Mahamadou Diarra and Pierre van Hooijdonk.\n\nVitesse ranked top 4 positions, made profit and showed a solid balance sheet in the final years of his presidency.\n\nAalbers resigned on February 15, 2000, after the main sponsor, Nuon, threatened to pull the plug if he did not. Nuon, as a public utility\ncompany, owned by local authorities, had trouble explaining why it invested heavily in Aalbers' ambitious plans.\n\nHis successor was Jan Koning (former chief of Sara Lee/DE who resigned after 4 month). In a short period of time, Vitesse began to show negative financial results, due to poor deals on the transfer market. The club survived numerous financial crises, such as the last one in 2008, when debts were bought of, under the threat of bankruptcy.\n\nAalbers is currently a marketing expert and consultant in city and stadium development. He acts as a matchmaker in international projects. He and his wife live in Eerbeek.\n"}
{"id": "4032629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4032629", "title": "Koç family", "text": "Koç family\n\nThe Koç family is a Turkish family of business people founded by Vehbi Koç, one of the wealthiest self-made people in Turkey. His grandsons, the third generation of the Koç family, today run Turkey’s largest group of companies, Koç Holding, the only Turkish company on the Fortune Global 500 list. In 2016, the family's wealth was estimated at USD$8 billion, ranking them as the wealthiest family in Turkey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3461455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3461455", "title": "Leander J. McCormick", "text": "Leander J. McCormick\n\nLeander James McCormick (February 8, 1819 – February 20, 1900) was an American inventor, manufacturer, philanthropist, and businessman and a member of the McCormick family of Chicago and Virginia. Along with his elder brothers Cyrus and William, he is regarded as one of the fathers of modern agriculture due to his part in the development of the McCormick Reaper and what became the International Harvester Company. He also owned and developed vast amounts of real estate in downtown Chicago and Lake Forest, Illinois. In 1885 he donated one of the world's largest telescopes to the University of Virginia.\n\nLeander James McCormick was a member of the prominent McCormick family of Chicago. He was born February 8, 1819 in Rockbridge County, Virginia on February 8, 1819 to Robert McCormick, Jr. (1780–1846) and Mary Ann \"Polly\" Hall (1780–1853).\nHe was the fourth of five sons and was raised at the family homestead known as Walnut Grove, near Raphine in Rockbridge County, in the Shenandoah Valley on the western side of the Blue Ridge Mountains. His elder brother Robert Hall McCormick died as a teenager, and his younger brother John Prestly McCormick also died as a young adult. His father invented agricultural machines including the mechanical reaper, for which Leander's eldest brother Cyrus McCormick received the patent in 1834. Leander eventually developed multiple improvements to the reaper and received patents for two of them, with the remainder being patented by his brother Cyrus. At age 26, McCormick married Henrietta Maria Hamilton on her parents' homestead, Locust Hill, in Rockbridge County on October 22, 1845. The following year their father Robert McCormick, Jr. died. Leander had a third share of the reaper business, which amounted to 75 machines in 1846.\n\nIn 1847 Leander helped Cyrus set up a factory in Cincinnati, Ohio that produced 100 machines.\nIn fall 1848 he moved to Chicago with his wife and infant son to join Cyrus in setting up an even larger factory.\nAnother older brother William Sanderson McCormick joined in 1850 in a business in run by Cyrus to manufacture reapers and sell them across the midwestern United States. They created what eventually became the McCormick Harvesting Machine Company, with Leander taking over management of the manufacturing department, which he controlled for the next 30 years. By 1870, the McCormicks were one of the wealthiest families in the United States.\n\nIn 1871, the Great Chicago Fire destroyed much of the Reaper Works and other buildings, as well as the Leander McCormick family residence at the corner of Rush Street and Ohio Street, . Leander, his wife and children fled their burning home in the early morning hours. They moved to the west side of the city for the next several years. The McCormicks, under Leander's direction, quickly rebuilt and recovered. By 1879, the business had fully recovered and was merged into a corporation. Leander stayed active in the management of the business until 1889 when he retired.\nAfter retiring from the business, McCormick then invested heavily in real estate.\n\nMcCormick donated funds for a refracting telescope to the University of Virginia. The telescope and building are known as McCormick Observatory and opened in 1885; the telescope was the largest in the U.S. and second largest in the world when completed.\nIn his later years, McCormick remained in Chicago and began to research the McCormick genealogy. He eventually produced and published a book on the McCormick family.\nIn 1889 he funded construction of the Virginia Hotel at Rush and Ohio, where McCormick spent the rest of his life.\nThe 400-room hotel was advertised as \"an absolutely fire-proof building and a finished hotel second to no other.\"\nThe hotel featured ornate granite interiors decorated with marble statues, separate \"gentlemen's smoking room\" and \"ladies dining room\", and a room of boilers and dynamos to offer the latest technology: electric lights. It was ready in time for the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition.\nHis wife died in November 1899, and he died on February 20, 1900 at the Virginia Hotel.\nAt the time of his death, he had extensive holdings in downtown Chicago, and a stock farm in Lake Forest, Illinois.\n\nHis children were: \n"}
{"id": "32230393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32230393", "title": "Marketing science", "text": "Marketing science\n\nMarketing science is a field that approaches marketing – the understanding of customer needs, and the development of approaches by which they might be fulfilled – predominantly through scientific methods, rather than through tools and techniques common with research in the arts or in humanities. \n\nThe field of marketing science, in the pursuit of \"truths\" in marketing, is related to, but more general than marketing research, which is oriented towards a specific product, service or campaign.\n\nBefore marketing science was formally labeled, its activity appeared as management science within the marketing framework. The interaction between academics and practitioners in marketing science dates back to 1961, with the founding of the Marketing Science Institute. Interest in marketing science as a field grew in the late 1980s and early 1990s as electronic point-of-sale data grew and barcode readers led to a \"marketing information revolution.\" \n\nBefore conferences were organized with a \"marketing science\" label, four meetings were convened as \"Market Measurement and Analysis\" conferences from 1979 to 1982, sponsored by The Institute of Management Sciences and the Operations Research Society of America. The first officially labeled Marketing Science Conference was hosted by the School of Management at UCLA in 1983.\n\nThe marketing profession has long relied on data. But as the data flood gets bigger, progressive marketers are turning to big data analysis methods as well as systematic observation, testing and measurement to study broad behavioral patterns, drill down from the aggregate to the individual and produce new insights that improve business outcomes. \n\n"}
{"id": "8573494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8573494", "title": "Maxim Lazovsky", "text": "Maxim Lazovsky\n\nMaxim Yuryevich Lazovsky (, nicknames \"Max\", \"Lame\"; July 31, 1965 – April 28, 2000) was a former KGB and FSB officer who became involved in underground business. According to Alexander Litvinenko and co-authors he was also suspected of participation in Russian apartment bombings in 1999, along with other crimes including murders and kidnappings.\n\nMaxim Lazovsky was born in Grozny, Chechnya. In 1992, Lazovsky organized a gang that was linked to the Chechen criminal groups which tried to control oil business in the neighbouring regions. Lazovsky was co-owner of the firm Lanako, engaged in oil business. In the same firm worked Captain Andrey Shchelenkov, who died from an explosion of his own bomb on a railway bridge in Moscow on November 18, 1994. Colonel Vladimir Vorobyev, who shortly after organized another act of terrorism in Moscow: the explosion of a trolleybus in December 1994, also cooperated closely with Lazovsky.\n\nIn February 1996, Lazovsky was detained by the Moscow Criminal Investigation department (MUR) and accused of various criminal activities together with the Moscow FSB employee Alexey Jumashkin and six other FSB employees. In 1997 Lazovsky was convicted to two years for illegal possession of drugs and weapons. He was released in 1998.\n\nAccording to Yuri Felshtinsky and Vladimir Pribylovsky, Lavosky was involved in staging bombings in Moscow in 1999.\n\nOn April 28, 2000, Lazovsky was shot by unknown assassins on the entryway of a church in the village of Uspenskoye, Odintsovsky District near Moscow, where he lived.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2711242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2711242", "title": "Michael Corcoran", "text": "Michael Corcoran\n\nMichael Corcoran (September 21, 1827 – December 22, 1863) was an Irish-born American general in the Union Army during the American Civil War and a close confidant of President Abraham Lincoln. As its colonel, he led the 69th New York Regiment to Washington, D.C. and was one of the first to serve in the defense of Washington by building Fort Corcoran. He then led the 69th into action at the First Battle of Bull Run. After promotion to brigadier general, he left the 69th and formed the \"Corcoran Legion\", consisting of at least five other New York regiments.\n\nCorcoran was born in Carrowkeel, near Ballymote, County Sligo in Ireland.\nHe was the only child of Thomas Corcoran, an officer in the British army, and Mary McDonagh. Through his mother, he claimed descent from Patrick Sarsfield, hero of the Williamite War in Ireland and leader of the Wild Geese.\n\nAt the age of 18, in 1846 he took an appointment to the Revenue Police, enforcing the laws and searching for illicit stills and distilling activities in Creeslough, County Donegal.\nHe also joined a guerrilla group called the Ribbonmen.\n\nOn August 30, 1849, he emigrated from Sligo Bay to the U.S. and settled in New York City where he found work as a clerk in the tavern, Hibernian House, at 42 Prince Street in Manhattan owned by John Heaney, whose niece, Elizabeth, he married in 1854.\n\nHe enlisted as a Private in the 69th New York Militia. By 1859 he was appointed colonel of the regiment. The regiment was a state militia unit at that time composed of citizens, not soldiers, and was involved in the maintenance of public order. On October 11, 1860, Colonel Corcoran refused to march the regiment on parade for the 19-year-old Prince of Wales, who was visiting New York City at the time, protesting the British imposition of the Irish Famine. Corcoran was removed from command and a court martial was pending over that matter when the Civil War began.\n\nCorcoran also became involved in Democratic politics at Tammany Hall: he could deliver the Irish vote. He became district leader, a member of the judicial nominations committee, an elected school inspector for his ward, and a member of the Fourteenth Ward General Committee.\n\nWith the outbreak of war, the court martial was dropped and Corcoran was restored to his command because he had been instrumental in bringing other Irish immigrants to the Union cause. He led the 69th to Washington, D.C. and served for a while in the Washington defenses building Fort Corcoran. In July he led the regiment into action at the First Battle of Bull Run and was taken prisoner.\nCorcoran was one of the founders of the Fenian Brotherhood in America. While in jail, Corcoran wrote, \"One half of my heart is Erin's, and the other half is America's. God bless America, and ever preserve her the asylum of all the oppressed of the earth, is the sincere prayer of my heart.\" \n\nIn April, 1863 Corcoran was involved in an incident that ended with Corcoran shooting and killing Edgar A. Kimball, commander of the 9th New York Volunteer Infantry Regiment. Corcoran attempted to pass through the 9th New York's area without giving the required password after receiving the challenge from a sentry. When Kimball intervened on the side of the sentry, Corcoran shot Kimball. Corcoran was not charged with a crime or reprimanded, and continued to serve.\n\nWhile Corcoran was imprisoned the U.S. had made threats to execute captured Confederate privateers. Corcoran and several other Union prisoners were selected by lot for execution if the U.S. carried out its threats against the privateers. This event was known as the Enchantress Affair, but no executions were ever carried out by either side. Corcoran was then offered a parole under the conditions that he not take up arms against the Confederacy. Intending to resume his place in the Union army upon his release he refused the offer of parole. He was appointed Brigadier General of volunteers in July and exchanged in August 1862. His role in the Enchantress Affair and his refusal for parole gained him some attention and upon his release he was invited to dinner with President Abraham Lincoln.\n\nCorcoran returned to the army and set about recruiting more Irish volunteers. He raised and took command of what would be known as the \"Corcoran Legion\":<br>\nThe Legion consisted of:\n\nPlaced in command of the 1st Division, VII Corps he was engaged in the Battle of Deserted House and took part in the siege of Suffolk. In late 1863 he was placed in command of a division in the XXII Corps and returned to serve in the Washington defenses. While riding alone in Fairfax, Virginia he was thrown from a runaway horse and suffered a fractured skull. He died at the W.P. Gunnell House on December 22, 1863 at the age of 36.\n\nCorcoran was largely idolized by his Irish-American troops. His name, and that of the New York 69th, figure prominently in many of the Irish Union ballads of the day:\n\n\"America's Irish Brigade\": 'When Jefferson Davis he sounded alarms, the sons of Columbia rushed into arms, and our noble militia to Washington sped, with the brave Michael Corcoran marching at head'\n\n\"Song of the Regiments\": 'We have volunteers to fight who have pride and brave and darin, Thomas Francis Meagher and his gallant sons of Erin, the Massachusetts ninth, Michael Corcoran's Irish legion, and all the rank and file of every state and region'\n\n\"The Fighting 69th\": \"...They're a band of men brave stout and bold, from Ireland they came; and they had a leader to the fold. Mick Corcoran was his name.\"\n\n\"Boys That Wore The Green\": \"...Colonel Corcoran led the Sixty-ninth on that eventful day, I wish the Prince of Wales were there to see him in the fray; His charge upon the batteries was a most glorious scene, With gallant New York firemen, and the boys that wore the green.\"\n\n\"The Irish Volunteer\": \"...When the Prince of Wales came over here, and made a hubbaboo, Oh, everybody turned out, you know, in gold and tinsel too; But then the good old Sixty-ninth didn't like these lords or peers-- They wouldn't give a damn for kings, the Irish volunteers! We love the land of Liberty, its laws we will revere, \"But the divil take nobility!\" says the Irish volunteer!\"\n\n\"We'll Fight for Uncle Sam\": \"...I used to cry out soap fat because that was my trade sir-- Till I 'listed for a soldier-boy with Corcoran's brigade, sir.\"\n\nThe Mayor of New York City, Michael Bloomberg unveiled Ireland's national monument to the Fighting 69th in Ballymote on August 22, 2006. The monument was sculpted by Philip Flanagan. The inscription around the top of the monument reads \"Michael Corcoran 1827–1863\" Around the base is inscribed \"New York Ballymote Creeslough Bull Run. Underneath the monument is a piece of steel from the World Trade Center, donated by the family of Michael Lynch, who died in the tower on September 11, 2001. Lynch's family are from County Sligo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13019655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13019655", "title": "Mikhail Gutseriyev", "text": "Mikhail Gutseriyev\n\nMikail (Mikhail) Safarbekovich Gutseriev (; born 9 March 1958 in Akmolinsk, Kazakh SSR, Soviet Union) is a Russian entrepreneur, Doctor of Economics, poet, member of the Union of Writers of the Russian Federation. The major shareholder of the SAFMAR Group, which includes PJSC \"RussNeft\", JSC Neftisa, JSC \"Russian Coal\", PJSC Mospromstroy, A101 Group, JSC NPF Safmar, JSC Doveriye, NPF Mospromstroy-Fund, JSC «LC «Europlan», «VSK» insurance company and many others. He owns controlling stakes in the largest Russian retail companies – PJSC M.video and JSC Eldorado. He is the owner of a UK-based GCM Global Energy Inc., which produces crude oil in Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan. He controls major real estate assets (including the National Hotel, Petrovsky Passage and Smolensky Passage shopping centres in Moscow, and many others). Mr. Gutseriev is a member of the Management Board of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.\n\nStarting from 2002 he has been regularly included into Forbes annual list of 200 Richest Russians wherein as of 2017 ranks on the 20th position with $9.91 bln., ranking on the 20th position with $6.4 bln (as of 2017) Besides, for two straight years the Gutseriev family with its consolidated fortune of nearly $10 bln has been taking the first place in the Wealthiest Families of Russia Ranking by the Forbes magazine.\n\nHis paternal grandfather, Saad Gutseriev, was born in 1882 in the outskirts of Vladikavkaz. Being a nine-year-old boy, alone, barefoot, he crossed the Cross Pass and moved to Tbilisi, Georgia. He completed a non-classical secondary school, then was trained at the Special Gendarme Corps of the Russian Imperial Army and subsequently was educated in Law. Saad Gutseriev served as a Commissary of Western Georgia and Sukhumi. In process of time he moved to Vladikavkaz, where run a business, owning the starch and distilling factories. After the Russian Revolution, Saad Gutseriev occupied management positions in various enterprises under the Commissariat of Local Industry. In 1944 Saad was repressed, the house was confiscated and his whole family exiled to Kazakhstan, where he remained until his death in 1948. Nowadays, the most contemporary and chic hotel in Astana, erected by Gutseriev family, bears the name of their Grandfather – Saad-Mariott. Mikhail Gutseriev`s father, Safarbek Saadovich, was born in 1920, graduated from a Law School in 1941 and later in 1971 he graduated from North Ossetian State University with a degree in Economics of Trade. During the World War II he served in the procuratorial offices and at the age of 23 headed the district prosecutor`s office. After the deportation of Ingush people to Kazakhstan in 1944, Safarbek Gutseriev served as a senior investigator for special cases of the Akmolinsk Regional Administration of the Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs. In 1948 he was illegally repressed and sentenced to 25 years imprisonment and subsequent 5-year exile settlement with full deprival of rights. \"For seven years, day by day, my father had been sending two letters to Stalin. One of them was written from his own name. The other one, signed by my mother, was composed by his friend, also a convict. My father sent over 5 000 letters in total\", recalls Mikhail Safarbekovich. Half a year after Stalin`s death, Safarbek Gutseriev was freed, reinstated in the Party, and in 1955 fully rehabilitated. After the War, he took up various management positions of a regional level: Head of Production and Processing Equipment Agency of Tselinstroy, Head of Construction and Erection Directorate, and of number of other industrial and retail enterprises. He was given 11 state awards.\n\nMother of Mikhail, Marem Yakubovna Akhil`gova, was a housewife. She held an honorary title \"Mother-heroine\" for giving birth and educating 9 children.\n\nMikhail Gutseriev was born on 9 March 1958 in a large family Ingush family in Akmolinsk. His family was repressed and exiled to Kazakhstan. He finished high school No. 23 in Grozny, Checheno-Ingushskaya ASSR. The school, completely destroyed during the First Chechen War, in 2005 was rebuilt with Gutseriev`s financial support.\nIn 1975 Gutseriev started his labor activity as a loader (warehouse worker) in Groznenskiy Gorplodovoshtorg in Grozny. From 1976 he worked as a reel operator of a silkscreening workshop at the Dzhambul Factory of Folk Arts and Crafts, then till 1982 - as a supervising foreman of sewing workshop at the same factory. Simultaneously he studied at the evening department of the Chemical Processing Faculty of the Institute of Technology, Dzhambul, Kazakh SSR, majoring in \"Leather and Furs\".\n\nFrom 1982 worked as a process engineer, later on – as a senior process engineer of Grozny Production Association at the RSFSR Ministry of Local Industry, Grozny. It took him only four years to advance from a process engineer to the CEO of the Association, having become the youngest CEO among managers of manufacturing enterprises of the USSR. In 1988 Mikhail Gutseriev founded a Russian-Italian joint venture, the first one in the Northern Caucasus, the CHIITAL furniture factory. He also became a pioneer of private banking business in the USSR: at the same 1988 he founded \"Kavkaz\", one of the first cooperative banks in this country. In 1991 M. Gutseriev was elected Chairman of Businessmen Association of Checheno-Ingush ASSR.\n\nIn 1992, when Dzhokhar Dudayev took power, M. Gutseriev had to leave his business and moved to Moscow, where he founded industrial and financial company \"BIN\" (Bank of Investments and Innovations), uniting industrial, trading and financial enterprises. In 1993 he founded and headed the Joint Stock Commercial Bank BIN, which nowadays is among Top 30 Russian Commercial Banks. In 1994 he was appointed the head of Ingushetia zone of economic favor by the Russian Government Decree.\n\nIn 1995 he graduated from Finance Academy under the Government of Russian Federation, majoring in \"Finance and Credits\", Gubkin Russian State University of Oil and Gas, majoring in \"Methods and Technology of Oil and Gas Engineering\", St. Petersburg University of Law , majoring in \"Civil Law\" and Post graduate course at St. Petersburg University of Law, having received Master's Degree in \"Criminal Procedural Law\". Eventually he pursued Doctoral studies at the Plekhanov Russian University of Economics, majoring in \"Free Economic Zones\".\n\nIn 1996 he defended his Ph.D thesis on \"Criminality in major cities: State of affairs and prevention problems on the materials of Moscow and Saint-Petersburg in Saint-Petersburg Law University, PhD in Law. In 1998 he defended his doctorate thesis on \"Establishing and developing the zones of economic well-being: methodology and practice\" in the Plekhanov Russian University of Economics, Doctor of Economics.\n\nIn 1995 he was elected a deputy to the State Duma, where he took up the post of Deputy Chairman. In 1999 for the second time Mikhail Safarbekovich was elected a State Duma Deputy for the Third Convocation of the Federal Assembly, but on 14 January 2000 Gutseriev was elected as the President of Slavneft at the extraordinary meeting of shareholders of the Company and had to refuse deputy`s mandate. On 27 February 2001 Gutseriev was elected the Vice President of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.\n\nIn February 2001 he was elected as the acting member of the public organization of the Russian Academy of natural sciences for an outstanding contribution into development of Economics and merits in organization of oil industry in Russia.\n\nIn September 2002 M.Gutseriev founded and headed RussNeft, the oil and gas company.\n\nIn 2007 he moved to London, in a view of likelihood of persecution.\n\nOn May 7, 2010 Mikhail Gutseriev came back to Russia, having landed in Ingush Magas Airport, in order to visit the tombs of his parents and son. Soon he re-ran the Company.\n\nGutseriev is the biggest owner of the commercial real estate on Tverskaya Street in Moscow.\n\nIn February 2015, bearing in mind massive expansion of the business of the two of his major oil companies JSC RussNeft and JSC Neftisa, he became the Chairman of the Boards of Directors of the above companies, having focused on the strategic management of his assets.\n\nMikhail Gutseriev is an author of monograph and an array of research publications on free economic free economic zones and offshore business issues in Russia. From the very childhood Mikhail Safarbekovich plays music (violin, piano), writes verses.\n\nFrom the very childhood Mikhail Safarbekovich plays music (violin, piano), writes verses. He is fluent in English.\n\nBrother of Mikhail, Sait-Salam is also a prominent businessman, use to be a Deputy of the State Duma of the Third and Fourth Convocation.\n\nMikhail Gutseriev is married and has got a son and a daughter. His elder son Chingiz , born in 1986, died after car accident in 2007.\n\nKhamzat, the elder brother of Mikhail, is a Police General–Lieutenant and used to be a member of the Federation Council from Aginsk Buryat Autonomous District.\n\nSaid, the younger son of Mikhail Gutseriev (born 18.04.1988) was educated at Harrow School, UK, and graduated from Oxford University. He is an entrepreneur, CEO of Forteinvest, one of the Russian leading refinery companies, a shareholder of the Non-state «European Pension Fund». He is a BoD member of all the companies, owned by his father.\n\nIn the end of July 2007 Mikhail Gutseriev in an open letter announced that authorities made an unprecedented pressure on him, and he was forced to sell RussNeft to the Basic Element holding, owned by loyal to the Kremlin Oleg Deripaska. Gutseriev stepped down as a President of RussNeft and announced his suspension of entrepreneurial activity (apart from RussNeft he owned Russian coal and many other companies) and his decision to move on to scientific endeavor.\n\nOn August 28, 2007 The Tverskoy court of Moscow issued arrest warrant in absentia for Gutseriev, meeting the request of the Investigative Committee under the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Gutseriev was subjected to international wanted notice. At that moment Gutseriev had already been in London, having got USD 3 billion from Oleg Deripaska from RussNeft selling.\n\nOn October 16, 2007 Gutseriev applied for political asylum to the Border and Immigration Agency of the Home Office but this information was officially rebutted.\n\nIn the end of October 2009, the Investigative Committee varied the preventive measure for Gutseriev from arrest in absentia on undertaking not to leave his usual place of residence.\n\nIn January 2010 Gutseriev regained his control over the 100% of the oil company. By the mid-April 2010 all the charges against Gutseriev were dropped, the criminal cases were dismissed. In April 2010 it was announced that Gutseriev has sold 49% of the company to Joint-Stock Financial Corporation Sistema and 2% more to Sberbank of Russia.\n\nIn the summer of 2013 Mikhail Gutseriev once again became the sole owner of JSC RussNeft.\n\nIn 2010 Mikhail Gutseriev became the key player in the broadcasting market of the Russian Federation.\n\nIn June 2012 he acquired broadcasting stations \"Prosto Radio\" (Moscow, 94 FM) and \"Dobriye Pesni\" (Moscow, 94.4 FM) from Alexander Lebedev. Subsequently, on the first frequency there appeared the station \"Vostok FM\" and on the second frequency – \"Vesna FM\".\n\nOn 30 January 2013 it became known that 75% of the shares of Krutoy Media Holding (Love Radio, Radio Dacha and Taxi FM) were purchased by Mikhail Gutseriev`s structures, while the remaining 25% were kept by Igor Krutoy. At the moment of transaction the businessman had already owned two broadcasting stations \"Vostok FM\" and \"Vesna FM\"and the new owners announced the preservation of the old program policy of holding the value of which was estimated then at USD 50-60 million.\n\nIn November 2013 he acquired Finam FM Broadcasting station (Moscow, 99.6 FM), which together with\"Vostok FM\" and \"Vesna FM\" formed Izyum Holding.\n\nIn December 2013 the transaction to acquire another broadcasting station, «RU.FM» (with 94.8 МHz frequency) was completed with USD 10 million price. The station was replaced by Radio \"Govorit Moskva\". For two years Mikhail Gutseriev managed to create a big media holding, occupying the leading positions in the Moscow Region by respect of the frequencies number (the second place after Gazprom-Media).\n\nIn April 2015 Mikhail Gutseriev purchased 100% of \"Radio Shanson\". The transaction was estimated at USD 50-60 million, while Gutseriev said it was 60 million.\n\nIn January 2017 Mikhail Gutseriev became an owner of Bridge Media Group, one of the largest television holdings of the country that includes number of the popular music channels.\n\nIn November 2017 Mikhail Gutseriev purchased one more major Russian federal radio station, its name was not disclosed.\n\nIn 2013 the Litera literary club, popularizing poetry in the Internet, posted on the net the cycle of video clips where young Moscow and Saint Petersburg actors recite poems by Mikhail Gutseriev. In 2014 this initiative was further artistically elaborated by a well-known film and theatre director Mikhail Levitin Jr. From 2014 to 2018 he, together with Mosfilm Studio, made several video series, based on the poet`s works, which are of great popularity both in literary and artistic circles and in the media of Internet. Among them are the following: \nIn those films that are an exponents of the new form of fusion between poetry and movie making, the Gutseriev`s verses are recited by outstanding actors, such as Valentin Gaft.\n\nIn 2015—2018 the number of poetic works by Mikhail Gutseriev were published in leading literary and artistic periodicals of the country, namely \"Nash Sovremennik\", \"Moskva\" and others.\n\nMikhail Gutseriev got involved with the poetry in his young days.\n\nНis songs are performed by wide range of the Russian singers: Joseph Kobzon, Laima Vaikule, Nikolay Baskov, Sofia Rotaru, Grigory Leps, Valeriya, Stas Mikhaylov, Irina Krug, Avraam Russo, Kristina Orbakaite, Alexander Buinov, Nadezhda Kadysheva, Alexander Malinin, Taisia Povaliy, Philipp Kirkorov, Maksim Pokrovsky, Mikhail Shufutinsky, Stas Piekha, Alexander Marshal, Natasha Koroleva, Slava, Denis Klyaver, Lyubov Uspenskaya, Mitya Fomin, Anastasia Stotskaya, Nikolay Rastorguev, Alsou, Zara, Turetsky Choir Art Group, Katya Lel, Batyrkhan Shukenov, Lara Fabian, Mark Tishman, Nikolay Trubach, Sergei Lubavin, Anzhelika Agurbash, Lyudmila Sokolova, Ani Lorak, Vlad Topalov, Vitas, Alla Pugacheva, Dima Bilan, Dmitry Malikov, Tatiana Bulanova, Anna Semenovich, Zheka, Natalya Vlasova, Yaseniya, Alexey Glyzin, Tamara Gverdtsiteli, Yuri Smyslov.\n\nMore than one hundred works were written by Gutseriev together with composers Kim Breitburg, Igor Krutoy, Sergey Revtov, Igor Zubkov, Victor Drobysh, Sergey Bakumenko, Igor Azarov and others.\n\nThree songs on the lyrics of Gutseriev have become laureates of \"Song of the Year-2012\" festival, namely<: \"Two lives\", performed by Alexander Buinov, (lyrics – M. Gutseriev, music — A. Buinov), \"Joker\", performed by Stas Mikhaylov (lyrics – M. Gutseriev, music — Stas Mikhaylov) and \"Habitat of Love\", performed by Rada Rye (lyrics – M. Gutseriev, music — V. Klimenkov, A. Atash and S. Akalin).\n\nAt the traditionally held in Yurmala \"Novaya Volna 2013\" Music Contest, the songs by Mikhail Gutseriev were performed by Laima Vaikule (\"A Wild Tango\"), Kristina Orbakaite (\"Disguise\"), Joseph Kobzon (\"Soul\"), while at \"Novaya Volna-2014\" – by Denis Klyaver (\"A Fanciful Dream\"), Philipp Kirkorov (\"A Loveless Idol\"), Natasha Koroleva (\"Apricot Dreams\"), Nikolay Baskov (\"Cherry-Blossom Love\"). Conducted in Sochi city-resort, \"Novaya Volna-2015\" has hosted Nikolay Baskov with \"Love is not just words', Valeriya (\"The Formula of Happiness\"), Alexander Kogan (\"I'm waiting for your call\"), Ani Lorak (\"Autumn love\"), Philipp Kirkorov (\"Indigo\") and Alla Pugacheva (\"The heart pulls its hands\"). The following songs by Mikhail Gutseriev were performed on the \"Novaya Volna 2016\": \"Tea with milk\" by Taisia Povaliy, \"I'm tired of walking\" by Natasha Koroleva, \"I'll ascend after you to the heaven\" by Tamara Gverdtsiteli, \"For so many straight years\" by Jaseniya, \"I`ll give my love to you\" by Nikolay Baskov, \"Chimera\" by Philipp Kirkorov, \"Indivisible\" by Dima Bilan, and \"One Hundred Weeks» by Alexander Buinov. Novaya Volna 2017 witnessed performance of the new songs by Mikhail Gutseriev: \"Stone on Heart\" (Polina Gagarina), \"I don't believe it\" (Philipp Kirkorov), \"We share insomnia\" (Kristina Orbakaite), \"Landmark of Love\" (Tamara Gavrdtsetelli),\"Autumn under my shoes\" (Natasha Koroleva), \"Early Winter\" (Aleksandr Buinov) , \"Heart is the house of love\" (Taisiya Povaliy), \"Greyish Black Eyes\" (Nikolai Baskov), \"I miss the way we used to be\" Grigoriy Leps.\n\nThe People`s Artist of Russia Joseph Kobzon sings \"The Soul\" and \"Cherry-Blossom Love\", which were presented as video in the end of May, 2013.\n\n«Love Story» composition based on the verses of Mikhail Gutseriev and performed by Mikhail Shufutinsky gave the title to the concert of the singer, which was timed to coincide with his 65th anniversary and took place on 13 April 2013 in Moscow.\n\nFour of Gutseriev`s songs were included in the album by Maxim Pokrovsky: \"Moscow Traffic Jams\", 'Yellow Glasses\", 'Eyes Of Love\" and \"Asia 80\".\n\nIn the number of songs Gutseriev also acted as a composer: it was, for instance, in the songs \"About love sometimes they say ...\" performed by Alexander Malinin, \"Do not judge me, sweetheart\" by Rada Rye, as well as \"The Girl in White\" by Lyudmila Sokolova.\n\nFrom 2012 to 2017 five albums of songs on the verses of Mikhail Gutseriev have been released: \"Habitat of Love\", \"We are afraid to love\", \"A time to love\", \"The formula of happiness\" and \"Tea with milk\".\n\nIn December 2013 Mikhail Gutseriev received 8 diplomas of the annual music festival \"Song of a year 2013\" for the lyrics he wrote for the following songs:\n«A Wild Tango», performed by Laima Vaikule (music – Sergey Revtov);\n\"A Fanciful Dream\" by Denis Klyaver (music –Sergey Revtov);\n«Soul Chill» performed by Stas Mikhaylov (music - Stas Mikhaylov);\n«Cherry-Coloured Roses», performed by Joseph Kobzon (Music – Andrey Pryazhnikov);\n«Moscow Traffic Jams» performed by Maxim Pokrovsky (муз. Maxim Pokrovsky);\n«Fear of Loving» performed by Valeriya (Music – Dmitry Dubinsky);\n«Three Days» performed by Sofia Rotaru (Music-Oleg Makarevich);\n«Desguise» performed by Kristina Orbakaite (Music-Kim Breitburg).\n\nOn December 7, 2013 at the Music Festival \"Song of a year 2013\" Mikhail Gutseriev was awarded the Robert Rozhdestvensky Special Prize in nomination \"Best Poet of the Year\". He received 9 awards in total at this contest alone.\n\nIn November 2014 Mikhail Gutseriev won the prestigious \"Golden Gramophone\" music contest. His songs «Fear of Loving» performed by Valeriya (music by D. Dubinsky) and \"A fanciful Dream\" (performed by Denis Klyaver, music by S. Revtov) were recognized as laureates of the contest.\n\nIn December 2014, 12 songs composed on the lyrics of Gutseriev became the laureates of \"Song of a year 2014\" and the author himself was recognized as \"Best poet of a year\" for the second year straight:\n«A Loveless Idol», performed by Philipp Kirkorov (music by D. Kontopulos);\n\"Cherry-Blossom Love\" performed by Nikolay Baskov (music by I. Krutoy);\n«Women`s fate – Men`s willpower» performed by Joseph Kobzon (music by M. Pokrovsky);\n«Moscow`s Autumn» performed by Kristina Orbakaite (music by S. Revtov);\n«That time of love» performed by Valeriya (Music by I. Brylin) ;\n«Happiness above the Earth\" Performed by Zara (music by Victor Drobysh, T. Leontiev);\n«Grief Does Not Matter» performed by Nepara duet (music by L. Molochnik, A. Zolotarev, R. Dzhanibekov);\n«Naughty because of you» performed by Natasha Koroleva and Alexander Marshal (music V. Kokhana);\n«Waiting for your call» performed by Alexander Kogan (music by V. Drobysh);\n«You are my happiness» performed by Alsou (music by I. Krutoy);\n«My mature one» performed by Slava (music by V. Kokhana);\n«Love of awairy swans» performed by Lara Fabian (music by I. Krutoy).\n\nIn December 2015 Gutseriev once again was selected as the best author of \"Song of a year\"[74]. The following songs have become winners:\n\nIn April 2016 at the 15th anniversary \"Сhanson of the Year\" music festival conducted at the State Kremlin Palace 9 songs to Mikhail Gutseriev's verses were acknowledged as laureates of an authoritative contest, among them:\n\nAgain, in December 2016 Mikhail Gutseriev acknowledged as the best poet of the 45th \"Song of a year\" anniversary festival, he was honoured with the \"Poet of the Year\" statuette. The following songs to the verses of Mikhail Gutseriev were distinguished with the diplomas:\n\nAnd in December 2016 Mikhail Gutseriev for the umpteenth time came out a winner of a Golden Gramophone prestigious prize. His song \"Indivisible\" performed by Dima Bilan (a composer D. Kovalsky) became a laureate.\n\nIn April 2017 at the \"Сhanson of the Year\" song contest at the State Kremlin Palace already 12 hits by Mikhail Gutseriev performed by Russian pop-stars were given the prestigious award-statuettes:\nIn November 2017 two songs by Mikhail Gutseriev were marked with the Golden Gramophone awards: «My Heart is a Shelter for Love» performed by Taisia Povaliy (music by V. Kokhana) и «Crazy Happiness» performed by Anita Tsoy (music by V. Kokhana).\n\nIn December 2017 Mikhail Gutseriev again received \"Poet of the Year\" award at the festival Song of the Year. 12 compositions were awarded by the diplomas of the festival, based on the verses of the poet: \"I miss the way we used to be\" Grigory Leps, \"We share insomnia\" Kristina Orbakaite, \"Heavy heart\" (Polina Gagarina), \"In love and destined for happiness\" (Stas Mikhailov), \"Landmark of love\" (Tamara Gvardtsitelli) and \"Heart is the house of love\" (Taisiya Povaliy). \"Khimera\" was marked as nomination the \"Best music video\", \"I miss the way we used to be\" won the \"City Romance\" and Mikhail Gutseriev received \"Poet of the Year\" award.\n\nIn April 2018 12 songs on the lyrics of the poet were the laureates of the XVII \"Shanson of the Year\" Award.\n\nThe concert held on May 19, 2018 and devoted to the oeuvre of Mikhail Gutseriev, received full attendance. Alla Pucheva, Philipp Kirkorov, Kristine Orbakaite, Nikolay Baskov, Tamara Gvardtsetelli, Natasha Koroleva, Aleksandr Buinov, Zhasmin, Mikhail Shufutinsky, Nataky, Aleksandr Malinin, Polina Gagarina, Zara, Stas Mikhailov and other singers. The leading media of Russia called it the \"most vivid event of the 2018\".\n\nSongs to the verses by M. Gutseriev:\nProjects sponsored by Mikhail Gutseriev and the companies managed by him:\n\nIn 2006 PJSC Russneft and Lomonosov Moscow State University opened Higher School of Innovative Business and Management, one of the five corporate universities of MSU. The programs were developed by PJSC \"RussNeft\" and three faculties of MSU (Faculty of Chemistry, Faculty of Geology, Faculty of Management) taking into account the objectives of oil corporations within three MA programs: \"Geological and physical studies of oil and gas fields\", \"Chemical refinery of hydrocarbons\", \"Management of mineral resources\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32322018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32322018", "title": "Nils Peter Thesen", "text": "Nils Peter Thesen\n\nNils Peter Thesen (24 April 1853 – 23 November 1929) was a Norwegian-born, South African businessperson.\n\nHe was a son of Arndt Leonard Thesen (1816–1875) and Ane Catherine Margrethe Brandt (1819–1900). The family emigrated from Stavanger, Norway to Knysna, South Africa in 1869, and founded the company Thesen and Company.\n\nNils Peter Thesen became a co-owner of this company, and also served as consul-general for Norway in South Africa. He was decorated as a Knight, First Class of the Order of St. Olav.\n\nHe died in November 1929. Thesen had several brothers, of which Charles Wilhelm Thesen was the most prominent. Through a sister, he was a brother-in-law of Francis William Reitz.\n"}
{"id": "16446004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16446004", "title": "Nils Taube", "text": "Nils Taube\n\nBaron Nils Taube (25 July 1928 – 11 March 2008) was Britain's longest serving fund manager. A colleague of George Soros and advisor to Lord Rothschild, he also anticipated the 1987 stockmarket crash, while delivering an annual return of 15 percent for over 35 years while he ran his own fund.\n\nBaron Nils Otto von Taube was born on 25 July 1928 to Valerie Olga Doreen Girard de Soucanton (born 1904), who was daughter of William Girard de Soucanton, the Homourary British consul in Reval, owner of trading company Thomas Clayhills and Son and Beatrice Carr, and an upper-class Baltic German father Baron Axel von Taube (1901-1945), his family were resettled to Reichsgau Wartheland in 1939 as part of the secret protocols of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact requiring the resettlement of ethnic Germans from Estonia and Latvia.\n\nTaube moved to London in 1946 to study Chemistry, but with family to support he left for the City in 1948, joining Kitcat & Aitken as an office junior.\n\nHe made his name investing in then-undervalued German shares and rose rapidly through the ranks, becoming an analyst in 1951, fund manager in 1969 and senior partner in 1975. Taube's main fund was the St James's Place Greater European Progressive fund, which returned an average of 15.74% a year between 1969 and 2006. He also ran the St James's Place International Unit Trust, which grew an average of 15.23% a year between 1971 and 2006.\n\nIn the 1970s, he worked with George Soros, helping him to make money by introducing him to the gilts market. Soros was so impressed that he invited Taube on to the advisory board of the Quantum Group of hedge funds.\n\nWhen in 1982, Jacob Rothschild's RIT and Northern bought a stake in Kitkat & Aitken it was said that the deal was devised to gain access to Taube, who became Rothschild's principal investment manager, a position he held until 1996. That year he left to establish Taube Hodson Stonex Partners, building up assets of £9 billion. In 2006 he started Nils Taube Investments, where he worked until his death.\n\nAfter the collapse of Communism, Taube became involved in charitable and advisory work for his native country. He helped run the Soros Open Estonia Foundation, became an adviser to an Estonian cabinet committee overseeing state investment, and was a member of the prime minister's research and development council.\n\nHis charitable work, for which he was honoured by Estonia in 1998, included paying for a cancer research laboratory at Tartu University and the funding of physics research.\n\nIn 1969, Taube was one of the four founders of the Institute for Fiscal Studies.\n\nTaube put his success down to caution, joking that \"we only invest in countries where they wear overcoats in the winter\". In recent months he had been buying gold and energy stocks, blaming the current market turmoil on the \"mass stupidity\" of \"smartypants investors\" who had been labouring under the delusion that it is possible to \"buy listed companies and gear them up 10 times\".\n\nWhen asked recently if he was predicting a crash he replied: \"I can't say I'm not\" - and he described the present crisis as being \"a cross between 1987 and the early 70s, when the market disintegrated\".\nAfter Estonia regained independence, he was a member of the Estonian prime minister's research and development council, advisor to an Estonian cabinet committee overseeing state investments and helped run the Soros Open Estonia Foundation. He funded a cancer research laboratory at Tartu University.\n\nTaube is survived by his wife, Idonea, born Tudor, daughter of Lt.-Col. Owen Frederick Morton Tudor and Hon. Noreen Rosamund Anne Tufton, Idonea is a granddaughter of admiral Henry Morton Tudor and John Sackville Richard Tufton, 2nd Baron Hothfield of Hothfield and his wife Lady Ierne Louisa Arundel Hastings. She married Baron Nils Taube on 19 January 1954 and they have three sons.\n\nTaube died of a stroke on 11 March 2008 in London, England, at the age of 79.\n\n"}
{"id": "31568291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31568291", "title": "Peter S. Kaufman", "text": "Peter S. Kaufman\n\nPeter S. Kaufman is an American investment banker and private equity investor. He is the President and Head of Restructuring and Distressed M&A at Gordian Group LLC, an investment bank and financial advisory firm. He is also a Managing Partner of Bacchus Capital Management, a winery investment concern.\n\nKaufman attended the Edgemont Junior High School in Westchester County, New York and graduated from The Taft School \"cum laude.\" He attended Yale College, where he lettered in varsity lacrosse, was an editor of the \"Yale Daily News\", and had a double major in art history and history, graduating with Honors. He was in the top quarter of his class at the University of Virginia School of Law.\n\nKaufman practiced law in New York City before going into investment banking in the mid-1980s. Leaving the First Boston Corporation as a Vice President in 1990, Kaufman joined Gordian Group LLC, the leading boutique investment bank specializing in distressed and/or complex financial challenges. Along with CEO Henry Furlow Owsley III, Kaufman is co-author of the definitive works in the field, the recently published, \"Distressed Investment Banking: To The Abyss and Back - Second Edition\", Beard Books 2015, \"Equity Holders Under Siege: Strategies and Tactics for Distressed Businesses\", Beard Books LLC, 2014 and \"Distressed Investment Banking: To The Abyss and Back\", Beard Books 2005. All books are \"must-read\" for boards of directors, management teams and shareholders and/or owners of financially stressed situations, as well as for buyers and professionals. In \"The Deal\" financial restructuring league tables, Peter Kaufman is consistently named one of the country's top 10 restructuring investment bankers, and has been ranked #1.\n\nHe is perhaps the nation's most frequent commentator on national television regarding restructurings and distressed financial matters, as well as economic policy issues. He has been recognized by the media as \"a top restructuring and distressed debt expert.\" Kaufman has appeared on, among others, Bloomberg TV, CNBC, CNN (including Anderson Cooper 360), Fox Business with Maria Bartiromo, Fox Business, NBC (Today Show) and WSJ TV, on matters relating to insolvency, corporate reorganization, federal \"bailout\" issues and broader stimulus and economic issues, including General Motors(GM), Chrysler and British Petroleum (BP), American Airlines & Hostess Brands, as well as municipal and state insolvency issues. He also discusses private equity on television and elsewhere. He is often cited in leading publications and international news sources such as \"The New York Times\", \"The Wall Street Journal\" and Reuters, and was the subject of a Bloomberg feature.\n\nKaufman's investment banking practice primarily encompasses advising Boards of Directors, private equity firms, and buyers and sellers of distressed, stressed or \"story\" situations. Because it does not represent creditors, Gordian is able to achieve meaningful equity recoveries in insolvent situations. In 2013, he testified in front of the ABI Commission on Bankruptcy Reform in regards to valuation. At Bacchus Capital, he is actively involved in the fund's selection and oversight of portfolio company wineries.\n\nRepresentative engagements where Kaufman led or co-led the matter include: Alexander Gallo Holdings (debtor), Alphatec (debtor), American Airlines (TWU - Mechanics Union), Enron, Jobson Healthcare (Private Equity), Lee Enterprises (Private Equity), Madoff Bankruptcy (Trustee), Mendocino Brewing, Metalico (debtor), ModSpace, MolyCorp (expert witness engagement for counsel), Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railroad (debtor), Nuo Therapeutics (debtor), Spansion (debtor), Strata, Trans Energy (debtor), Vivaro and Xtreme Power (debtor).\n\nKaufman currently serves as an Adjunct Faculty/Lecturer at the University of Virginia School of Law teaching a course entitled \"Advising Boards of Directors Under Siege\"; he also assists in teaching courses at Darden Business School at University of Virginia.\n\nPeter Kaufman and his work have been featured in Bloomberg News.\n\nIn \"The Deal\" financial restructuring league tables, Kaufman is consistently named one of the country's top 10 restructuring investment bankers, and has been ranked #1.\n\nIn January 2017 the industry organization, M&A Advisor, announced that Kaufman's firm Gordian Group LLC had won Boutique Investment Bank of the Year award for the fifth time in seven years. Gordian Group was named a winner for the Out-Of-Court Restructuring of the Year (Over $100MM): Restructuring and Sale of Trans Energy, Inc.; and Cross-Border Restructuring Deal of the Year (Under $1B): Cross-Border Restructuring of Alphatec. In 2014, it also awarded Gordian on behalf of their restructurings of Jobson Medical Holdings (Professional Services category) and Elyria Foundry (Industrial, Manufacturing & Distribution category). In 2014, the University of Virginia awarded him an honorary appointment as a Visiting Executive Lecturer at the Darden Graduate School of Business Administration.\n\nIn February 2015, Kaufman was honored with the 2015 M&A Advisor Leadership Award for his contribution to and accomplishments in the industry at the 9th Annual Turnaround Awards Gala on Monday, February 23, 2015 in Palm Beach, FL. In November 2015, Kaufman was inducted into the M&A Advisor Hall of Fame at the 14th Annual M&A Advisor Awards Gala in New York City.\n\nKaufman married the former Theresa Paulson in 1997 in Portland, Oregon. They and their two daughters reside in the Edgemont section of Scarsdale, in Westchester County, where he grew up. They also have a home on Chebeague Island, Maine.\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "34268968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34268968", "title": "Policy alienation", "text": "Policy alienation\n\nPolicy alienation refers to a framework which examines the experiences of governmental employees with new policies they have to implement. It has been used to describe the experiences of front-line public professionals with new policies. It is defined \"as a general cognitive state of psychological disconnection from the policy programme being implemented.\"\n\nA number of examples can clarify the concept of policy alienation. For example, Bottery (1998:40), examining the pressures on professionals stemming from new policies in education and health care in Great Britain, cites a teacher arguing that: “The changes have been outrageous, and have produced a culture of meritocracy and high flyers. There’s massive paperwork because the politicians don’t believe teachers are to be trusted.” This indicates that professionals had difficulties identifying with the policies they had to implement. A second example refers to the introduction of a new reimbursement policy in mental healthcare in the Netherlands. In one large-scale survey, as many as nine out of ten professionals wanted to abandon this new policy (Palm et al., 2008). Psychologists even went as far as to openly demonstrate on the street against this policy. A major reason for this was that many could not align their professional values with the content of the policy. As one professional noted:\n\n\"\"Within the new healthcare system economic values are dominant. Too little attention is being paid to the content: professionals helping patients. The result is that professionals become more aware of the costs and revenues of their behavior. This comes at the expense of acting according to professional standards.”\"\n\nOverall, a number of studies show an increasing discontent among public professionals toward public policies (see also Hebson et al., 2003; White, 1996), although more positive experiences can also be found (Ruiter, 2007). The policy alienation framework was developed to better understand the experiences of front-line public professionals with new policies.\n\nCurrently, there is an intense debate concerning professionals in the public sector. Many of the pressures that professionals face are related to the difficulties they have with the policies they have to implement. When implementers are unable to identify with a policy, this can negatively influence policy effectiveness. Furthermore, a high degree of policy alienation can affect the quality of interactions between professionals and citizens, which may eventually influence the output legitimacy of government. The policy alienation framework is used to analyze this topic.\nIt has been shown that policy alienation increases resistance to a new policy, lowers behavioral support for the policy and decreases job satisfaction of public professionals. Hence, it has both influences on the individual professional, as well as on policy effectiveness.\n\nAlienation broadly refers to a sense of social estrangement, an absence of social support or meaningful social connection. Sociologists, public administration scholars, and other social scientists have used the alienation concept in various studies. As a result, a number of meanings have been attributed to the term. In an attempt to provide clarity, Seeman broke these meanings down into five alienation dimensions: powerlessness, meaninglessness, normlessness, social isolation, and self-estrangement.\n\nMany scholars have used these dimensions to devise operational measures for alienation so that they can examine the concept in a range of settings. Mau, for example, used four dimensions in examining student alienation. Rayce et al., when investigating adolescent alienation, used three of the five dimensions. Further, many other researchers have used Seeman’s classification in examining the concept of work alienation. Blauner devised operational measures for three of the dimensions: powerlessness, meaninglessness, and social isolation.\n\nThe policy alienation framework was conceptualized based on the works of sociologists such as Hegel, Marx, Seeman, and Blauner. Furthermore, works of public administration scholars were used, particularly on Lipsky (street-level bureaucracy). Like work alienation, policy alienation is multidimensional, consisting of policy powerlessness and policy meaninglessness dimensions. In the work alienation literature, the dimensions of powerlessness and meaninglessness are also considered very important.\n\nIn essence, powerlessness is a person's lack of control over events in their life. In the realm of policy formulation and implementation, policy powerlessness relates to the degree of influence public professionals have over shaping a policy program. Powerlessness can occur when a new policy is drafted without the help of the professionals, by for example not consulting their professionals associations or labor unions. Furthermore, on an operational level professionals can feel powerless when they have to adhere to tight procedures and rules when implementing a policy (see also Lipsky). This kind of powerlessness may be particularly pronounced in professionals whose expectations of discretion and autonomy contradict notions of bureaucratic control (see also Profession).\n\nThe second dimension of policy alienation is meaninglessness. In the realm of policy making and implementation, policy meaninglessness refers to a professional’s perception of the contribution that the policy makes to a greater purpose, most notably to society or to their own clients. For instance, a professional can feel that implementing a policy is meaningless, if it does not deliver any apparent beneficial outcomes for society, such as more safety on the streets.\n\nTo make the dimensions more specific, five sub-dimensions were identified: strategic, tactical and operational powerlessness, societal and client meaninglessness. This is shown in the table below.\n\nFive sub-dimensions of policy alienation\n"}
{"id": "26615557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26615557", "title": "Pre-packaged insolvency", "text": "Pre-packaged insolvency\n\nPre-packaged insolvency (a \"pre-pack\") is a kind of bankruptcy procedure, where a restructure plan is agreed in advance of a company declaring its insolvency. In the United States pre-packs are often used in a Chapter 11 filing. In the United Kingdom, pre-packs have become popular since the Enterprise Act 2002, which has made administration the dominant insolvency procedure. Such arrangements are also available in Canada under the Companies' Creditors Arrangements Act.\n\nThe term \"pre-pack sale\" has been defined by the Association of Business Recovery Professionals as, \"an arrangement under which the sale of all or part of a company’s business or assets is negotiated with a purchaser prior to the appointment of an administrator, and the administrator effects the sale immediately on, or shortly after, his appointment\". The difference between a pre-pack sale and a normal sale is that in a normal sale the administrator markets the business and negotiates the terms of the sale after his appointment.\n\nThe reasons an administrator sells on a pre-pack basis, rather than after post-appointment marketing, vary from case to case, but they often involve the following considerations. A pre-pack sale avoids the costs of trading (which means creditors receive more back), and indeed, the company and the administrator may not have the funds to trade. It also avoids the administrator taking on the risks associated with trading. The value of the business may deteriorate during administration trading.\n\nThere may be other factors to prevent trading, such as regulatory problems.\n\nThe courts have held that an administrator can sell the company's assets immediately upon his appointment, without court approval or the approval of the creditors, and he can do so even if the majority creditor objects. Courts have even approved transactions that, as a \"necessary evil\", have made payments to the former management while leaving little or nothing to unsecured creditors.\n\nIn January 2009, the Association of Business Recovery Professionals issued \"Statement of Insolvency Practice 16\" to require insolvency practitioners acting as administrators to disclose a number of matters to all creditors as soon as possible after the completion of the sale. This was done in an attempt to provide greater transparency to creditors.\n\nOn 1 November 2013, following a government-commissioned review, a new \"Statement of Insolvency Practice 16\" was introduced. It requires administrators to disclose the following:\n\nThe main benefit of a pre-pack administration is the 'continuity' of the business - the company is protected by the court. This gets rid of debts and contracts. It does not get rid of employees due to the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 (TUPE). Another big advantage is that the cost of the process is lower than trading administration, as the administrators do not need to find funding to trade the business. The downside of a pre-pack administration is that it can attract negative publicity if the former directors are seen to be shedding liabilities.\n\nThe Insolvency Service monitors compliance with SIP 16. Its reports show that in 2010 it reported 10 insolvency practitioners to their licensing bodies, and in 2011 it reported 21.\n\nIn the United States, typically the term \"pre-packaged insolvency\" is recoined as pre-packaged bankruptcy. A conventional bankruptcy case is one in which the debtor files for Chapter 11 relief without having agreed in advance to the terms of a plan of reorganization with its creditors. During the course of the Chapter 11 case, the debtor or, if the debtor does not retain the exclusive right to propose a plan, a creditor or creditor group may formulate and propose a plan of reorganization. A company undergoing Chapter 11 reorganization is effectively operating under the \"protection\" of the court until it emerges. An example is the airline industry; in 2006, over half the industry's seating capacity was on airlines that were in Chapter 11.\n\nIn a pre-packaged case, the plan proponents will have secured sufficient support from creditors to confirm their plan of reorganization prior to filing for Chapter 11 reorganization. Pre-packaged plans of reorganization virtually always impair (i.e. pay less than in full) one or more classes of creditors, and so in order to ensure that the plan can be confirmed by the bankruptcy court, the plan proponents must secure the support of at least two-thirds in amount and more than one-half in number of at least one such impaired class, in addition to ensuring the plan complies with all other requirements for confirmation. Two procedurally difficult aspects of the process are the announcement (which must be structured so as not to trigger contractual termination provisions) and getting the requisite creditor approval.\n\nIn 2009, a new entity completed the purchase of continuing operations, assets and trademarks of General Motors as a part of the 'pre-packaged' Chapter 11 reorganization. As ranked by total assets, GM's bankruptcy marks one of the largest corporate Chapter 11 bankruptcies in US history. The Chapter 11 filing was the fourth-largest in US history, following Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Washington Mutual and WorldCom Inc. A new entity with the backing of the United States Treasury was formed to acquire profitable assets, under section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code, with the new company planning to issue an initial public offering (IPO) of stock in 2010. The remaining pre-petition creditors claims are paid from the former corporation's assets.\n\nA review from Wolverhampton University identified the several criticisms of pre-pack sales. There is a general concern that the pre-pack administrator, in agreeing to the pre-pack in consultation with the company’s management team (and usually its secured creditors), favours the interests of the managers and secured creditors ahead of those of the unsecured creditors. The speed and secrecy of the transaction often lead to a deal being executed, about which the unsecured creditors know nothing and offers them little or no return.\n\nThere is often a suspicion that the consideration paid for the business may not have been maximized due to the absence of open marketing. Credit may have been incurred inappropriately prior to the pre-pack and this may not be fully investigated. Criticism of this nature had been levelled at pre-pack sales by John Moulton of Alchemy Partners in January 2009, saying 'Pre-packs could be very easily abused. Bad management can plan for a prepack months in advance, line up an administrator – and then be back running the business immediately. It means when retailers fail they are often being kept with the same directors when it would be much healthier if new management arrived and with fresh money to invest\".\n"}
{"id": "1477065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1477065", "title": "Quality bias", "text": "Quality bias\n\nQuality bias in price indices is a kind of mismeasurement if they do not incorporate data on the quality of goods from period to period, as well as their nominal price.\n\nPersonal computers are a canonical case. Because of improvements in computer chips, greater and greater speeds and features have become available, without substantial increases in price. If only price information on personal computers were used, quality bias would cause growth in a consumer price index (CPI) to be overestimated, since an equivalent computer would actually be much cheaper in later periods.\n\nQuality bias can work both ways. Faster computers with enhanced performance require greater memory and more expensive support software. Most personal computers were previously bundled with software, but now come only with a basic operating system and a requirement for the purchaser to purchase the bundled software after a \"trial period\", so the actual \"value\" per dollar is much lower. Obsolescence is built into most personal electronics, shortening their useful live, again lowering the actual value. All these issues make the quality bias tend to be negative rather than positive. As products and the manufacturing methodology advances, the cost of manufacture is expected to go down, and improved products are part of every product life cycle, and many products go through repeated cycling. An example is the automobile. Quality bias is most often seen in a negative manner in the cases of mature products as companies lower their acceptance standards in order to increase their profit margins. There is no effective measure for declining quality, unfortunately, which is why some nations such as Germany and Japan have developed very meticulous standards for nearly everything, including services. The DIN and JIS enable anyone to evaluate whether or not an article has been properly produced. There is no such standard in the U.S., except for some scattered attempts by insurers to control electrical quality (such as UL). Engineering standards, such as ASME and ASTM; Automotive, such as ASE and ISO are not effective standards and do not compare with JIS or DIN because it is self-imposed, self-regulated, and self-inspected by the very people it is designed to regulate.\n\nMakers of price indexes can address the quality bias problem with several steps. The main approach is to use hedonic index methods to capture attributes of products and their implicit prices:\n\n"}
{"id": "50578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50578", "title": "Queueing theory", "text": "Queueing theory\n\nQueueing theory is the mathematical study of waiting lines, or queues. A queueing model is constructed so that queue lengths and waiting time can be predicted. Queueing theory is generally considered a branch of operations research because the results are often used when making business decisions about the resources needed to provide a service.\n\nQueueing theory has its origins in research by Agner Krarup Erlang when he created models to describe the Copenhagen telephone exchange. The ideas have since seen applications including telecommunication, traffic engineering, computing\nand, particularly in industrial engineering, in the design of factories, shops, offices and hospitals, as well as in project management.\n\nThe spelling \"queueing\" over \"queuing\" is typically encountered in the academic research field. In fact, one of the flagship journals of the profession is named \"Queueing Systems\".\n\nSingle queueing nodes are usually described using Kendall's notation in the form \"A\"/\"S\"/\"C\" where \"A\" describes the time between arrivals to the queue, \"S\" the size of jobs and \"C\" the number of servers at the node. Many theorems in queueing theory can be proved by reducing queues to mathematical systems known as Markov chains, first described by Andrey Markov in his 1906 paper.\n\nIn 1909, Agner Krarup Erlang, a Danish engineer who worked for the Copenhagen Telephone Exchange, published the first paper on what would now be called queueing theory. He modeled the number of telephone calls arriving at an exchange by a Poisson process and solved the M/D/1 queue in 1917 and M/D/k queueing model in 1920. In Kendall's notation:\n\n\nThe M/M/1 queue is a simple model where a single server serves jobs that arrive according to a Poisson process and have exponentially distributed service requirements. In an M/G/1 queue, the G stands for general and indicates an arbitrary probability distribution. The M/G/1 model was solved by Felix Pollaczek in 1930, a solution later recast in probabilistic terms by Aleksandr Khinchin and now known as the Pollaczek–Khinchine formula.\n\nAfter the 1940s queueing theory became an area of research interest to mathematicians. In 1953 David George Kendall solved the GI/M/k queue and introduced the modern notation for queues, now known as Kendall's notation. In 1957 Pollaczek studied the GI/G/1 using an integral equation. John Kingman gave a formula for the mean waiting time in a G/G/1 queue: Kingman's formula.\n\nThe matrix geometric method and matrix analytic methods have allowed queues with phase-type distributed inter-arrival and service time distributions to be considered.\n\nProblems such as performance metrics for the M/G/k queue remain an open problem.\n\nVarious scheduling policies can be used at queuing nodes:\n\n\n\nA common basic queuing system is attributed to Erlang, though its exact origin remains unclear. The queue refers to a single server with one demand rate (formula_1), one dropout rate (formula_2), and one rate of service (formula_3), for which the length of the queue \"L\" is defined as:\n\nformula_4\n\nAssuming an exponential distribution for the rates, the waiting time \"W\" can be defined as the proportion of demand that is served. This is equal to the exponential survival rate of those who do not drop out over the waiting period, giving:\n\nformula_5\n\nThe second equation is commonly rewritten as:\n\nformula_6\n\nThe two-stage one-box model is common in epidemiology.\n\nNetworks of queues are systems in which a number of queues are connected by what's known as customer routing. When a customer is serviced at one node it can join another node and queue for service, or leave the network.\n\nFor networks of \"m\" nodes, the state of the system can be described by an \"m\"–dimensional vector (\"x\",\"x\"...,\"x\") where \"x\" represents the number of customers at each node.\n\nThe simplest non-trivial network of queues is called tandem queues. The first significant results in this area were Jackson networks, for which an efficient product-form stationary distribution exists and the mean value analysis which allows average metrics such as throughput and sojourn times to be computed. If the total number of customers in the network remains constant the network is called a closed network and has also been shown to have a product–form stationary distribution in the Gordon–Newell theorem. This result was extended to the BCMP network where a network with very general service time, regimes and customer routing is shown to also exhibit a product-form stationary distribution. The normalizing constant can be calculated with the Buzen's algorithm, proposed in 1973.\n\nNetworks of customers have also been investigated, Kelly networks where customers of different classes experience different priority levels at different service nodes. Another type of network are G-networks first proposed by Erol Gelenbe in 1993: these networks do not assume exponential time distributions like the classic Jackson Network.\n\n\n\nIn discrete time networks where there is a constraint on which service nodes can be active at any time, the max-weight scheduling algorithm chooses a service policy to give optimal throughput in the case that each job visits only a single person service node. In the more general case where jobs can visit more than one node, backpressure routing gives optimal throughput. A network scheduler must choose a queuing algorithm, which affects the characteristics of the larger network. See also Stochastic scheduling for more about scheduling of queueing systems.\n\nMean field models consider the limiting behaviour of the empirical measure (proportion of queues in different states) as the number of queues (\"m\" above) goes to infinity. The impact of other queues on any given queue in the network is approximated by a differential equation. The deterministic model converges to the same stationary distribution as the original model.\n\nFluid models are continuous deterministic analogs of queueing networks obtained by taking the limit when the process is scaled in time and space, allowing heterogeneous objects. This scaled trajectory converges to a deterministic equation which allows the stability of the system to be proven. It is known that a queueing network can be stable, but have an unstable fluid limit.\n\nIn a system with high occupancy rates (utilisation near 1) a heavy traffic approximation can be used to approximate the queueing length process by a reflected Brownian motion, Ornstein–Uhlenbeck process or more general diffusion process. The number of dimensions of the RBM is equal to the number of queueing nodes and the diffusion is restricted to the non-negative orthant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20112542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20112542", "title": "Relevant cost", "text": "Relevant cost\n\nA relevant cost (also called avoidable cost or differential cost) is a cost that differs between alternatives being considered. In order for a cost to be a relevant cost it must be:\n\nIt is often important for businesses to distinguish between relevant and irrelevant costs when analyzing alternatives because erroneously considering irrelevant costs can lead to unsound business decisions. Also, ignoring irrelevant data in analysis can save time and effort.\n\nTypes of \"irrelevant\" costs are:\n\nA construction firm is in the middle of constructing an office building, having spent $1 million on it so far. It requires an additional $0.5 million to complete construction. Because of a downturn in the real estate market, the finished building will not fetch its original intended price, and is expected to sell for only $1.2 million. If, in deciding whether or not to continue construction, the $1 million sunk cost were incorrectly included in the analysis, the firm may conclude that it should abandon the project because it would be spending $1.5 million for a return of $1.2 million. However, the $1 million is an irrelevant cost, and should be excluded. Continuing the construction actually involves spending $0.5 million for a return of $1.2 million, which makes it the correct course of action.\n\nA managerial accounting term for costs that are specific to management's decisions. The concept of relevant costs eliminates unnecessary data that could complicate the decision-making process.\n"}
{"id": "3168196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3168196", "title": "Renato de Albuquerque", "text": "Renato de Albuquerque\n\nRenato de Albuquerque is a Brazilian civil engineer and entrepreneur in the construction and real state businesses. He was the founder of a pioneering construction firm, Albuquerque & Takaoka in 1951 together with his fellow architect and friend Yojiro Takaoka. Both had studied at the University of São Paulo Polytechnic School, graduating in 1949. \n\nTogether with Takaoka, Albuquerque is responsible for the creation of the first vertical and the first horizontal walled condominiums in Brazil. The Alphaville concept was widely copied throughout Brazil and is a very successful enterprise, currently with more than 20 locations in Brazil and Portugal. In October 2006, Alphaville was purchased by Gafisa S.A.\n\nHe is also the editor-in-chief of the Alpha Magazine and president of the Alphaville Foundation, a charity and not-for-profit NGO. He is an honorary citizen of Campinas and Barueri.\n"}
{"id": "590622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=590622", "title": "Robert Bennet Forbes", "text": "Robert Bennet Forbes\n\nCaptain Robert Bennet Forbes (1804 – November 23, 1889), was a sea captain, China merchant, ship owner, and writer. He was active in ship construction, maritime safety, the opium trade, and charitable activities, including food aid to Ireland, which became known as America’s first major disaster relief effort. \"As a member of the Forbes family of Boston, much of his wealth was derived from the opium and China Trade and he played a prominent role in the outbreak of the Opium War. Despite the ethical problems of dealing in opium, he was known to engage in humanitarian activities, such as commandeering the USS \"Jamestown\" to send food to Irish famine sufferers in 1847.\"\nHe was born in 1804 in Jamaica Plain, Boston, Massachusetts, son of Ralph Bennet Forbes and Margaret Perkins, and brother of John Murray Forbes.\n\nOn October 19, 1817 at age 13 he joined the crew of the \"Canton Packet\" and made his first voyage to China. He arrived in Canton, China in March 1818 using the eastern route. In June 1818, he returned to Boston.\n\nIn 1819 he made a second voyage aboard the \"Canton Packet\". On his next voyage he was promoted to third mate, he became second mate in 1821, and in 1825 was promoted to ship's master.\n\nAboard the \"Nile\" he sailed for Manila. Previous to this time he had been ship's master of the \"Levant\". He became a full captain before he was 20 years old. From Manila the \"Nile\" went to China, then to California, and from there to Buenos Aires, Argentina.\n\nIn 1828 he sailed the \"Danube\" for Sturgis & Perkins on a trading voyage to Smyrna, Turkey, and other European ports. He later was captain of the \"Niantic.\"\n\nAbout 1832 he made his last voyage to China and in 1840 became head of Russell & Company, the largest American commercial house in China. Of his large means he made generous provision for his mother and younger brother. He visited China several times and became the American vice consul at Canton.\n\nIn 1834 he married Rose Greene Smith and they had three children: Robert Bennet Forbes (1837-1891), Edith Forbes who married Charles Eliot Perkins, and James Murray Forbes (1845-1885).\n\nIn 1841 he witnessed the Battle of Kowloon between the Qing Dynasty and the British Empire from aboard his rowboat.\n\nHe died on November 23, 1889 in Milton, Massachusetts.\n\nCaptain Forbes owned or was involved in the construction of approximately seventy vessels.\n\nHis first ship was the \"Lintin\", a 390-ton bark built by Sprague and James in Medford, Mass., in 1830. Forbes owned the \"Lintin\" from 1830–1832, after which time she sailed in Chinese waters. Forbes also owned the \"Paul Jones\", which took the first cargo of ice to China. \"During the Civil War he was employed as a volunteer by the government to inspect the building of nine gunboats and at the same time built for himself and others the \"Meteor,\" of 1500 tons.\"\n\nThe clipper ship \"Great Republic\" was originally rigged with Forbes' double topsail yards.\n\nThe Forbes rig was also well received on the \"Mermaid,\" as this 1852 excerpt from the \"Boston Atlas\" transcribed by Bruzelius shows:\nHowever, the Forbes rig was publicly rejected by the captain of the \"N.B. Palmer\" in 1855, in favor of the Howe rig.\n\nHe built a Greek Revival mansion for his mother in Milton, Massachusetts, designed by Isaiah Rogers (1833), that is now the Captain Robert Bennet Forbes House Museum.\n\nCaptain Forbes was awarded the medal of the Liverpool Shipwreck and Humane Society in 1849 for gallant conduct. The Cunard steamship \"Europa\", on which Forbes was a passenger, ran down and sank an emigrant ship, \"Charles Bartlett\". Forbes jumped from the bulwarks of the \"Europa\" into the water and rescued first a woman and child, and then a man.\n\nIn 1852 he was one of the founders and first president of the Sailors' Snug Harbor of Boston, a retirement home for \"decrepit, infirm or aged sailors\".\n\nForbes' writings, most of them pamphlets, include: \n\n"}
{"id": "46434470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46434470", "title": "Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012", "text": "Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012\n\nSecurities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 (also called AIF Regulations) are a set of regulations introduced by Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) in 2012, to regulate pooled investment funds in India, such as real estate, private equity and hedge funds.\n\nThese regulations apply to all pooled investment funds registered in India which received capital from Indian or foreign investors. These were made to regulated funds that were not covered under the SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996; SEBI (Custodian Of Securities) Regulations, 1996 and any other regulations of SEBI. This was introduced to bring unregistered funds in India under the ambit of law. Prior to the introduction of this, many funds were operating in India that could not be classified as domestic venture capital funds (VCF), foreign venture capital investors (FVCI) or foreign institutional investor (FII). After introduction of these regulations in July 2012, 123 entities registered themselves by November 2014.\n\nThe Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) have been categorised into three classes:\n\n\nAIFs are usually marketed towards high-worth persons. The minimum investment from one person is . The minimum corpus of the funds is . At any time, not more than 1000 investors are allowed. The initial contribution of the fund manager or promoter should less than 2.5% or , whichever is less.\n\nIn the 2015 Union budget of India, it was announced that foreign direct investments (FDI) would be allowed in AIFs. It was also announced that the tax liability will be shifted from the funds to the investors in Category I and Category II.\n\n"}
{"id": "58642219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58642219", "title": "Shah Salim Khan", "text": "Shah Salim Khan\n\nShah Salim Khan (born July 29, 1975) is a former Pakistani politician and entrepreneur disqualified from the Gilgit-Baltistan Legislative Assembly for having defaulted on a loan by the National Bank of Pakistan. He is the son of the 6th Governor of Gilgit-Baltistan, Mir Ghazanfar Ali Khan.\n\nSalim Khan was born in Baltit Hunza and raised in Hunza. His father, Mir Ghazanfar Ali Khan was the 6th Governor of Gilgit-Baltistan. Khan passed through the International School of Islamabad from 1982-1994. He is a graduate of Bentley College, Boston USA, from 1994-1999 with majors in Management.\n\nHe was the former vice chairman of Pak China Sust Port Company Private Limited\".\"\n\nSalim Khan was an elected member of the Gilgit-Baltistan Legislative Assembly in the 2016 election. He won the seat in September 10, 2016 that had been vacated by his father, from GBLA-6 within Hunza Independent district on \"PML(N)\" ticket. In 2018 he was disqualified from being a member of the assembly after the National Bank of Pakistan petitioned for his disqualification in 2017, a year after his election. A decision was annonced in open court on 9 April 2018 to de-notify Khan as member of parliament and instruct the scheduling of a new by-election in accordance with law.\n"}
{"id": "38933316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38933316", "title": "Shigeo Iwanami", "text": "Shigeo Iwanami\n\nIwanami was born in what is now part of Suwa, Nagano, into a farming family. His father was a village headman, but he died when Iwanami was age 15, and Iwanami was raised by his mother. With the assistance of Shigetake Sugiura, he completed high school in Tokyo. A friend of Misao Fujimura, he was so overcome by the latter’s suicide that he withdrew to a mountain hut at Lake Nojiri for 49 days, contemplating suicide himself, until his mother came to get him.\n\nIwanami entered Tokyo Imperial University in 1905, where he became interested in the teachings of Uchimura Kanzō, although he never converted to Christianity. He married in 1906, and graduated from the Department of Philosophy in 1908. After graduation, Iwanami worked as an instructor at the Kanda Upper Women’s School, and at the Tokyo Women's School of Gymnastics and Music. Inspired by Leo Tolstoy, Iwanami was convinced that women need to receive an education equal to that of men. Also, during this period, he established a literary circle with his close friend, Yoshishige Abe and held weekly meetings in his home with leading authors to discuss intellectual matters.\nIn 1913, Iwanami opened a used book store and publishing house, Iwanami Shoten, in Jinbōchō, Tokyo, with the idea that he could use this as a start to begin publishing and disseminating works which he felt to be of intellectual value, and quit his teaching job to devote his full energy into the venture. The following year, he assisted Natsume Sōseki in publishing \"Kokoro\", launching both Natsume’s career as a novelist and his own career as a publisher. Even after Natsume Sōseki died in 1916, ongoing revenues from the publication of his works provided Iwanami with the funding necessary to proceed with numerous projects. This included the translation into Japanese and publication of the works of most European philosophers of the 19th and early 20th centuries, including Immanuel Kant, Hegel and Karl Marx.\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s, Iwanami concentrated on publishing both scientific works and works of philosophy, as well as attempting to popularize the Japanese classics and new authors, calling his selection the “Iwanami Culture”. He also published a paperback series in order to make his prices affordable to students. From late 1927 to early 1928, he toured Manchuria and north China as a guest of the South Manchurian Railway, together with Kiyoshi Miki . During the interwar period, Iwanami developed such close ties with academics in Kyoto and Tokyo that his company enjoyed an almost complete monopoly on academic publishing in Japan. However, he drew the wrath of Japanese militarists by publicly denouncing the Second Sino-Japanese War as “a war Japan should not be involved in,” and in 1940 he drew unfavorable attention again by publishing works by Sokichi Tsuda that questioned the veracity of Japan’s historical antecedents as described in the \"Kojiki\" and \"Nihon Shoki\". Iwanami was arrested in 1942, but acquitted in 1944.\n\nIwanami was appointed to a seat in the House of Peers in the Diet of Japan in 1945, as one of the highest taxpayers in Japan. He was awarded the Order of Culture by the Japanese government in 1946. He died of an intracranial hemorrhage in July that year. His grave is at the temple of Tokei-ji in Kamakura.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25467273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25467273", "title": "Shmuel Flatto-Sharon", "text": "Shmuel Flatto-Sharon\n\nShmuel \"Samy\" Flatto-Sharon (, born 18 January 1930) is a controversial French-Israeli businessman, radio talk-show host and former politician who was a member of the Knesset between 1977 and 1981.\n\nFlatto-Sharon was born as Shmuel Sheibitz to a Jewish family in Łódź, Poland in 1930. His family escaped to France after the German invasion of Poland, with Shmuel disguised as a girl. Forty members of his family, including his father, died in the Holocaust. He attended high school in Paris and Strasbourg, and joined the Young Communist League in 1945.\n\nAt age 14, he began selling cigarettes to soldiers and students, and then entered the recycling business, making a fortune in the recycling of paper, rags, and scrap metal. At age 21, he entered the real estate business. Throughout his 20s, Sharon built up his business empire. He came to own a transport service for hauling merchandise with dozens of trucks, industrial plants, a chain of restaurants and cafes, and hotels. By the late 1960s, he owned dozens of companies throughout Europe, the United States, and South America, and did business in oil, logging, and precious metals in Africa.\n\nIn 1975 he made aliyah to Israel, fleeing the French authorities as he was wanted for embezzling $60 million. He bought a villa in Savyon and immediately launched a business career in Israel. He entered a partnership with Israeli businessman Avraham Pilz, with whom he established the Dizengoff Center, which was Israel's first shopping mall. \n\nDespite barely speaking Hebrew, in 1977 he formed a one-man party, also named Flatto-Sharon, to run in the Knesset elections that year, hoping to obtain parliamentary immunity to avoid extradition to France.\n\nThe list won 2% of the vote, enough for two seats. However, as it was a one-man list, only one seat was taken. It has been suggested that the surprising level of support that the party won was a response to France's refusal to extradite Abu Daoud, who was wanted in Israel for the Munich massacre.\n\nOnce ensconced in the Knesset, Flatto-Sharon joined Menachem Begin's coalition, with one of his first acts being to vote in favour of a law that prohibited the extradition of Israeli citizens. He sat on the Economic Affairs Committee and in 1978 he renamed the party \"Development and Peace\". During his Knesset term he was involved in negotiations to free Israeli POWs. The party ran in the 1981 and 1984 elections, but did not pass the electoral threshold of 1% in either, and subsequently disappeared. Flatto-Sharon was never extradited to France to serve the five-year sentence given to him in his absence, as the five-year statute of limitations had expired.\n\nIn 1984 he was sentenced to three months community service for bribery during the 1977 election campaign. It had emerged that he had \"bought votes in 1977 by promising apartments to young couples and homes to others at reduced prices\" as well as paying voters (who were described as \"campaign workers\") and giving money to a local party in Dimona to be associated with his party. His community service was performed in a state agency in Tel Aviv.\n\nAfter losing his seat in the Knesset in 1981, he returned to private business. He and his wife Annette became celebrities known for hosting parties in their luxury villa in Savyon, with businessmen and other celebrities attending. The French government continued to maintain an international arrest warrant for him, and due to this, he rarely left Israel. In the early 1990s, after learning that he no longer had an Interpol warrant out for his arrest, Sharon flew to Italy on a business trip, and was arrested upon arrival in Rome. Facing possible extradition to France, he escaped back to Israel disguised as a woman. Sharon eventually paid a large fine to settle his criminal case with the French authorities.\n\nFlatto-Sharon is now an established multi-millionaire and works as a radio talk-show host; his show, named \"Flatto Bli Heshbon\" (Flatto without accountability) is broadcast on numerous stations, including Radius 100, Lev HaMedina, Radio Haifa and Radio Darom FM. He has been married three times, and has two children. His daughter Hilda is a homeopathic doctor, and his son Yoav is a businessman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3042805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3042805", "title": "Steven Clark Rockefeller", "text": "Steven Clark Rockefeller\n\nSteven Clark Rockefeller (born April 19, 1936) is a fourth-generation member of the Rockefeller family, and a former dean of Middlebury College. He is the oldest living member of the family who still carries the Rockefeller name, and has been the oldest living Rockefeller since his Uncle David Rockefeller died (at the age of 101) in March 2017.\n\nRockefeller is a philanthropist who focuses on education, Planned Parenthood, human rights and environmental causes. He is a trustee of the Asian Cultural Council and an advisory trustee of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund. He has also served as a director of the Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors.\n\nHe is the second-oldest son of former United States Vice President Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller and his first wife, Mary Rockefeller.\n\nRockefeller attended prestigious Deerfield Academy and received his A.B. degree from Princeton University, where he was president of The Ivy Club and also received the Moses Taylor Pyne Honor Prize. Subsequently, he obtained an M.Div. degree from the Union Theological Seminary in New York City, and a Ph.D. degree in philosophy of religion from Columbia University. He is a professor emeritus of Religion at Middlebury College in Middlebury, Vermont where he previously served as college dean and chairman of the religion department.\n\nIn 1959, he married Anne-Marie Rasmussen in Søgne, Norway; Anne-Marie was a former employee in the Rockefeller household. The couple had three children before divorcing. Steven Rockefeller remarried and had one child before the marriage ended in divorce. He then wed Barbara Bellows on May 11, 1991.\n\nIn 1976, he began an intensive study of Zen Buddhism, making frequent week-long visits to the Zen Center in Rochester, where he was a trustee.\n\nHe coordinated the drafting of the Earth Charter for the Earth Charter Commission and Earth Council. In 2005, he moderated the international launch of the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (DESD) (2005–14) in its headquarters in New York, launched by UNESCO and attended by Nane Annan, the wife of Secretary General Kofi Annan. He is Co-Chair of Earth Charter International Council and has written numerous essays on the Earth Charter, available at the Earth Charter website.\n\nHe has edited or written three books:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48453044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48453044", "title": "Stress in the aviation industry", "text": "Stress in the aviation industry\n\nStress in the aviation industry is a common phenomenon composed of three sources: physiological stressors, psychological stressors, and environmental stressors. Professional pilots can experience stress in flight, on the ground during work-related activities, and during personal time because of the influence of their occupation. An airline pilot can be an extremely stressful job due to the workload, responsibilities and safety of the thousands of passengers they transport around the world. Chronic levels of stress can negatively impact one's health, job performance and cognitive functioning. Being exposed to stress does not always negatively influence humans because it can motivate people to improve and help them adapt to a new environment. Unfortunate accidents start to occur when a pilot is under excessive stress, as it dramatically affects his or her physical, emotional, and mental conditions. Stress \"jeopardizes decision-making relevance and cognitive functioning\" and it is a prominent cause of pilot error. Being a pilot is considered a unique job that requires managing high workloads and good psychological and physical health. Unlike the other professional jobs, pilots are considered to be highly affected by stress levels. One study states that 70% of surgeons agreed that stress and fatigue don't impact their performance level, while only 26% of pilots denied that stress influences their performance. Pilots themselves realize how powerful stress can be, and yet many accidents and incidents continues to occur and have occurred, such as Asiana Airlines Flight 214, American Airlines Flight 1420, and Polish Air Force Tu-154\n\nAsiana Airlines Flight 214 was one of many tragic accidents triggered by stress. It occurred on July 6, 2013 on the aircraft's final approach to San Francisco International Airport from Incheon International Airport. During its approach, the plane hit the edge of the runway and its tail came apart followed by the fuselage bursting into flames. The trainee pilot flying was \"stressed about the approach to the unfamiliar airport and thought the autothrottle was working before the jet came in too low and too slow.\" He believed that the autothrottle, which is designed to maintain speed, was always on. The trainee pilot should have had full understanding of his flight systems and high mode awareness, but he didn't. He told National Transportation Safety Board that he should have studied more. His inefficient knowledge of the flight deck automation and an unfamiliar airport structure caused excessive stress, and the aftermath was disastrous: three passengers died and more than 187 passengers were injured.\nAmerican Airlines Flight 1420 took place on June 1, 1999. The pilot was Captain Richard Buschmann, considered an expert pilot with over ten thousand hours of flight time. The First Officer was Michael Origel with under five thousand hours of flight time. The flight was set to land at the airport in Arkansas but a major thunderstorm was occurring in the area and Captain Buschmann decided to change runways due to the high crosswind and rapid change wind direction. The pilots were overcome with tasks and the stress of the difficult landing, forgetting to arm the automatic ground spoiler and ground braking systems. It was too difficult to recover the aircraft and it slid off the runway and collided with a large steel walkway, resulting in the death of Captain Bucshmann and 10 passengers, with many suffering from severe injuries.\n\nAnother example is the Polish Air Force Tu-154 crash of April 2010, which killed Polish president Lech Kaczynski. During landing, the pilot Captain Arkadiusz Protasiuk was having difficulty landing due to severely foggy conditions, but the number of high-status passengers and priority of arriving on time pressured him onwards. Captain Protasiuk brought the aircraft down through the clouds at too low of an altitude, resulting in a controlled flight into terrain. His attempt to land failed and the plane crashed into a forest, killing the crew and all the passengers. Further study by the Interstate Aviation Committee regarding the cockpits voice recordings revealed that there was never a direct command for the pilot to go through with the landing, but the report did show that the pilot was under a \"cascade of stress much of it emanating from his powerful passengers, as Captain Protasiuk slipped below the decision altitude\". This accident led to the death of 96 people, all due to the high amount of stress being put on the pilot, affecting his mental state, inhibiting him from doing his job.\n\nFrom the Asiana Airlines Flight 214 study, Kathy Abbott of the Federal Aviation Administration stated that \"the data suggests that the highly integrated nature of current flight decks and additional add-on features have increased flight crew knowledge and introduced complexity that sometimes results in pilot confusion and errors during flight deck operation.\" U.S. investigators instructed the manufactures to fix Boeing 777's complex control systems because pilots \"no longer fully understand\" how aircraft systems works. As technology advances, more and more new instruments are put into the cockpit panel. As these increase, cognitive demands also increase, and pilots are becoming distracted from their primary tasks. Although having various types of information enhances situation awareness, it also overloads sensory channels. Since human's cognitive loads are limited, information overloads only increase the risk of flight accidents. Pilots have more difficulty perceiving and processing the data when information are overwhelming.\n\nThere are three components of memory: long-term, short-term, and working memory. When stress kicks in, a pilot’s working memory is impaired. Stress either limits the amount of resources that can be accessed through working memory or the time which these sources can be accessed are inhibited. When a pilot feels stressed, he or she will notice an increase in heart rate, higher blood pressure, muscle tensions, anxiety and fatigue. These physiological stress symptoms eventually interrupt the pilot’s cognitive functions by reducing his or her memory capacity and restraining cue samples. Through a study researchers found that stress greatly affects flight performances including, smoothness and accuracy of landing, ability to multi-task, and being ahead of the plane. Further research shows that under high stress, people are likely to make the same decision he or she has previously made, whether or not it led to a positive or a negative consequence before.\n\nStress can be caused by environmental, physiological, or psychological factors. Environmental stress can be caused by loud noise, small cockpit space, temperature, or any factors affecting one physically via one's current surroundings. Unpleasant environments can raise one's stress level. Physiological stress is a physical change due to influence of fatigue, anxiety, hunger, or any factors that may change a pilot's biological rhythms. Lastly, psychological factors include personal issues, including experiences, mental health, relationships and any other emotional issues a pilot may face. All these stressors interfere with cognitive activity and limit a pilot's ability to achieve peak performance. It is important to minimize these possible sources of stress to maximize pilots' cognitive loads, which affects their perception, memory, and logical reasoning.\n\nResearchers found that improvements in technology have significantly reduced aviation accidents, but human error still endangers flight safety. An individual reacts to stress in different ways, depending on how one perceives stress. If an individual judges that he or she has resources to cope with demands of the situation, it will be evaluated as a challenge. On the other hand, if an individual believes situational demands outweigh the resources, he or she will evaluate it as a threat, leading to poorer performance. Under the threat response, researchers stated that pilots became more distracted with their controls and had higher tendencies to scan unnecessary instruments.\n\nPlan Continuation Error (PCE) is one of the types of decision-making error pilot conducts. PCE is defined as an \"erroneous behavior due to failure to revise a flight plan despite emerging evidence that suggests it is no longer safe.\" The French Land Transport Accident Investigation Bureau (BEA) stated that 41.5% of casualties in general aviation were caused by get-home-itis syndrome; which happens when a pilot intents to land at the planned destination, no matter what it takes. A pilot must use their own judgment to go-around whenever it is necessary, but he or she often fails to do so. Through the study, it was found that mental workload of stress and heart rate increases when making go-around decisions. A pilot feels pressured and stressed by the obligation to get passengers to their destinations at the right time and to continue the flight as planned. When choosing between productivity and safety, pilots' risk assessments can be influenced unconsciously. American Airlines Flight 1420 accidents was one example caused by PCE; although the flight crew knew it was dangerous to continue the flight as severe thunderstorms was approaching, they continued on with their flight.\n\nStress can narrow the focus of attention in a good way and in a bad way. Stress helps to simplify a pilot's task and enables him or her to focus on major issues by eliminating nonessential information. In other words, a pilot can simplify information and react accordingly to major cues only. However, when a pilot exceeds his or her cognitive load, it will eventually narrow his or her attention too much and cause inattentiaon deafness. The pilot will mainly focus on doing the primary task and ignore secondary tasks, such as audible alarms and spoken instructions.\n\nMilitary pilots experience a more fast-paced and stressful career compared to airline and general aviation pilots. Military pilots experience significantly greater stress levels due to significant reliability and performance expectations. They hold a unique position in the workforce that includes peak physical and mental condition, high intelligence and extensive training. All military pilots, at times, must work under extreme conditions, experiencing high levels of stress, especially in a war zone. Soldiers are made to endure punishment and go through the most unthinkable situations. They are expected to continue with their job and at times completely ignore their own emotions. After initial training, the military completely reforms the individual, and in most cases incredible stress management skills are formed. The soldier is then sent off for further training, in this case to be a pilot, where they are tested and challenge even further to either fail or become one of the best.\n\nMilitary pilots withhold a lot of responsibility. Their jobs can include passenger or cargo transport, reconnaissance missions, or attacking from the air or flight training, all while expected to be in perfect mental and physical condition. These job place a responsibility on the pilot to avoid mistakes as millions of dollars, lives, or whole operations are at risk. At times stress does over take the pilot and emotions and human error can occur.\n\nThere are countless occurrences of pilots bombing allied forces in friendly fire incidents out of error and having to live with the consequences.\n\nThe stress of the job itself or of any mistake made can hugely affect one's life outside work. Millions of veterans struggle with post-traumatic stress injuries, unhealthy coping strategies such as alcohol or substance abuse and in the worst of cases, suicide, which is very common. Many studies and help programs have been put in place, but there are many different cases and people that it is impossible to help everyone. Stress overcomes even the strongest, most highly training pilots and can take the worst toll.\n\nEveryone deals with stress in a different manner, but military pilots stand out on their own with unique stress reducing and problem solving skills. Their main strategy is to find the problem causing the stress and solve it immediately so that they do not have to move to a secondary option, which consumes time they do not have. This is what they are taught in flight school; a sensor goes off and they immediately fix the problem. The main problem appears when pilots are going high speed or undergoing complicated maneuvers. Most times they are moving much faster than a human could even think, leaving a lot of room for human error. When that error occurs, however big or small, they can take on immense guilt for any problems that were caused depending on their personality. This can affect their mental state and ability to continue their job. Stress can also take a physical toll on a pilot's body, such as grinding of their teeth in difficult situations or even bladder problems when the pilot is flying with a higher G-force or for a long distance.\n\nAfter the 1950s, human error became the main cause of aviation accidents. Stress and fatigue continues to be an issue in the aviation industry. Hence, various training are being conducted to minimize it. The change began as National Aeronautics and Space Administration pointed out human limitations and emphasized the importance of teamwork. Crew Resource Management is a type of training conducted to teach a flight crew different behavioral strategies, such as situational awareness, stress management, and decision-making. When pilots are being hired, recruiters not only look at pilots' technical skills, but also at pilots' ability to learn from errors and evaluate how well they coordinate with other crew members.\n\n"}
{"id": "51225254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51225254", "title": "Thomas North Whitehead", "text": "Thomas North Whitehead\n\nThomas North Whitehead (31 December 1891, Cambridge, England – 22 November 1969, Cambridge, Massachusetts) was an early English human relations theorist and researcher, best known for \"The Industrial Worker\", a two-volume statistical analysis of the Hawthorne experiments. He worked as a professor at Harvard University and Radcliffe College, and in the British Foreign Office during World War II.\n\nWhitehead was the son of the prominent English philosopher Alfred North Whitehead, and was known as \"North\" to his family. He read economics at Trinity College, Cambridge, earning a B.A. in 1913. He then did graduate studies in mechanical engineering at University College London.\n\nWhitehead served as an army officer in France and East Africa during World War I, taking a leave from his graduate studies to do so. On the completion of his studies in 1920 after the war, he began working for the Admiralty, and remained there until his 1931 move to Harvard.\n\nDuring World War II, he again took a leave, this time from his professorship at Harvard, to work as an expert on American relations in the British Foreign Office. In 1940, before America entered the war, he advised Winston Churchill that American isolationism would not be a permanent obstacle, and after the Pearl Harbor attacks he communicated a message of solidarity to Franklin D. Roosevelt.\nIt was also Whitehead's suggestion that Churchill compare America's proposed Lend-Lease policy to the Magna Carta, and that one of the original copies of the Magna Carta then on display in America be made into a more permanent gift to seal the deal. However, this proposal fell through because the British government did not own any of the four surviving copies of the Magna Carta.\n\nWhitehead joined the Harvard Business School in 1931, following his father who had moved to Harvard in 1924. He stayed at Harvard for the rest of his career except for a leave of absence during World War II. After the war, Whitehead ran the Harvard-Radcliffe Program in Business Administration, a business program for women at Radcliffe College, keeping also his appointment at Harvard. He became a naturalized American citizen in 1952. When Harvard's business school began admitting women in 1955, he returned to a full-time position at Harvard. He remained at Harvard until his retirement.\n\nWhitehead's work \"The design and use of instruments\", published in 1934, was primarily written while he was still at the Admiralty. It prefigures the care in accurate measurement that Whitehead put into his work on the Hawthorne experiments. In this, Whitehead's \"golden rule\" was to \"never measure more than is absolutely necessary\".\n\nThe Hawthorne experiments studied worker productivity at a Western Electric factory. They were originally intended to study the effects of lighting on productivity, but instead determined that workers reacted positively to the changing conditions of the experiment, and that their productivity decreased again when the experiment ended.\nWhitehead, following the lead of Jean Piaget, took the approach of carefully documenting the behavior of a small sample of workers over a long period of time.\nHis analysis of the Hawthorne experiments used rigorous statistics to argue \"that personal and social relationships had been the dominant factors\" in these effects.\nHis work has been criticized as \"complex and poorly presented\", with unoriginal ideas \"expressed in infuriatingly vague prose\". Nevertheless, his work is important as the only original mathematical analysis of the experimental data and the only complete record of the entire run of the experiments.\n\nBesides his work on the Hawthorne experiments, Whitehead is known for pioneering the development of the fields of human relations, organizational behavior, and human resource management, and for his 1936 book \"Leadership in a Free Society\" on the structure and organization of human activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2299959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2299959", "title": "Timeline of the economy of the Indian subcontinent", "text": "Timeline of the economy of the Indian subcontinent\n\nThis is a timeline of the economy of the Indian subcontinent. It includes the economic timeline of the region, from the ancient era to the present, and briefly summarizes the data presented in the Economic history of India and List of regions by past GDP (PPP) articles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEconomically closed. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49837584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49837584", "title": "US Nuclear Corp", "text": "US Nuclear Corp\n\nUS Nuclear Corporation is a US radiation detection holding company headquartered in Canoga Park, CA specializing in the development and manufacturing of radiation detection instrumentation. It supplies instrumentation to nuclear power plants, national laboratories, government agencies, homeland security, military and weapon makers, universities and schools, research companies, hospitals, as well as energy companies.\n\nProducts include:\n\nUS Nuclear Corp has three divisions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22327367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22327367", "title": "University of Utah Research Park", "text": "University of Utah Research Park\n\nThe University of Utah Research Park, also known as Bionic Valley, is located on the campus of the University of Utah in Salt Lake City, United States. The facility has helped create many businesses based on the work of university scientists over the years. Research Park now houses more than forty companies alongside sixty-nine academic departments and employs more than 7,500 people. The annual in-state productivity of park residents exceeds $550 million.\n\nIn 1968, the Utah state legislature allocated 320 acres along the Bonneville Shoreline Trail to develop a research park. Research Park was intended to stimulate economic development within the State of Utah and encourage students who graduate from the University of Utah to stay in Salt Lake City by providing research jobs.\n\nIn 1982, when the successful implantation of the Jarvik 7 artificial heart attracted international headlines, artificial organ and medical device research and development at the University of Utah led Science Digest and the New York Times to nickname Salt Lake City the \"Bionic Valley\": \"the epicenter of a bioengineering effort that promises to shake up the entire health-care system.\"\n\nThe following companies and institutes are current or former residents of research park:\n"}
{"id": "14252700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14252700", "title": "Whitewash waiver", "text": "Whitewash waiver\n\nWhitewash Resolution is a proposed resolution for the waiver of rights of independent shareholders to receive a mandatory takeover from the investor and its concert parties for the ordinary shares of the company not already owned or controlled by them.\n\nA whitewash waiver is a corporate law concept originating in Hong Kong and Singapore. In some cases an investor will apply to the Executive for the Whitewash Waiver, which, if granted, will be subject to the approval of independent shareholders.\n"}
{"id": "21197278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21197278", "title": "Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation", "text": "Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation\n\nThe Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation was formed by R. J. Reynolds' daughter, Mary Reynolds Babcock, and her siblings to honor their brother, Zachary Smith Reynolds, who was murdered at the age of 20 at the Reynolds family home, Reynolda House. The foundation to this day gives away millions of dollars annually in the state of North Carolina. In 2008, the fund gave away $18 million in grants, including $2 million to Wake Forest University.\n\nDuring the 2008 economic crisis, the value of the foundation's trust declined 30% from its high of $470 million in November 2007. The foundation subsequently announced plans to revise the way it processes grants. The foundation, which has focused on affordable housing, immigration, education and the environment, will focus its environmental grants on water, energy and growth. The foundation's grants will be slightly less (at $16 million) than the $18 million given in 2008, but cuts will be steeper in 2010 and 2011.\n\nIn the past, the foundation has paid for a study about North Carolina's Work First welfare reform program, conducted by University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill researchers.\n\n"}
