{"id": "18959138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18959138", "title": "Antarctica", "text": "Antarctica\n\nAntarctica ( or , ) is Earth's southernmost continent. It contains the geographic South Pole and is situated in the Antarctic region of the Southern Hemisphere, almost entirely south of the Antarctic Circle, and is surrounded by the Southern Ocean. At , it is the fifth-largest continent. For comparison, Antarctica is nearly twice the size of Australia. About 98% of Antarctica is covered by ice that averages in thickness, which extends to all but the northernmost reaches of the Antarctic Peninsula.\n\nAntarctica, on average, is the coldest, driest, and windiest continent, and has the highest average elevation of all the continents. Antarctica is a desert, with annual precipitation of only 200 mm (8 in) along the coast and far less inland. The temperature in Antarctica has reached −89.2 °C (−128.6 °F) (or even −94.7 °C (−135.8 °F) as measured from space), though the average for the third quarter (the coldest part of the year) is −63 °C (−81 °F). Anywhere from 1,000 to 5,000 people reside throughout the year at research stations scattered across the continent. Organisms native to Antarctica include many types of algae, bacteria, fungi, plants, protista, and certain animals, such as mites, nematodes, penguins, seals and tardigrades. Vegetation, where it occurs, is tundra.\n\nAlthough myths and speculation about a \"Terra Australis\" (\"Southern Land\") date back to antiquity, Antarctica is noted as the last region on Earth in recorded history to be discovered, unseen until 1820 when the Russian expedition of Fabian Gottlieb von Bellingshausen and Mikhail Lazarev on \"Vostok\" and \"Mirny\" sighted the Fimbul ice shelf. The continent, however, remained largely neglected for the rest of the 19th century because of its hostile environment, lack of easily accessible resources, and isolation. In 1895, the first confirmed landing was conducted by a team of Norwegians.\n\nAntarctica is a \"de facto\" condominium, governed by parties to the Antarctic Treaty System that have consulting status. Twelve countries signed the Antarctic Treaty in 1959, and thirty-eight have signed it since then. The treaty prohibits military activities and mineral mining, prohibits nuclear explosions and nuclear waste disposal, supports scientific research, and protects the continent's ecozone. Ongoing experiments are conducted by more than 4,000 scientists from many nations.\n\nThe name \"Antarctica\" is the romanised version of the Greek compound word ἀνταρκτική (\"antarktiké\"), feminine of ἀνταρκτικός (\"antarktikós\"), meaning \"opposite to the Arctic\", \"opposite to the north\".\n\nAristotle wrote in his book \"Meteorology\" about an \"Antarctic region\" in c. 350 BC Marinus of Tyre reportedly used the name in his unpreserved world map from the 2nd century CE. The Roman authors Hyginus and Apuleius (1–2 centuries CE) used for the South Pole the romanised Greek name \"polus antarcticus,\" from which derived the Old French \"pole antartike\" (modern \"pôle antarctique\") attested in 1270, and from there the Middle English \"pol antartik\" in a 1391 technical treatise by Geoffrey Chaucer (modern \"Antarctic Pole\").\n\nBefore acquiring its present geographical connotations, the term was used for other locations that could be defined as \"opposite to the north\". For example, the short-lived French colony established in Brazil in the 16th century was called \"France Antarctique\".\n\nThe first formal use of the name \"Antarctica\" as a continental name in the 1890s is attributed to the Scottish cartographer John George Bartholomew.\n\nThe long-imagined (but undiscovered) south polar continent was originally called \"Terra Australis\", sometimes shortened to 'Australia' as seen in a woodcut illustration titled \"Sphere of the winds\", contained in an astrological textbook published in Frankfurt in 1545. Although the longer Latin phrase was better known, the shortened name \"Australia\" was used in Europe's scholarly circles.\n\nThen in the nineteenth century, the colonial authorities in Sydney removed the Dutch name from New Holland. Instead of inventing a new name to replace it, they took the name \"Australia\" from the south polar continent, leaving it nameless for some eighty years. During that period, geographers had to make do with clumsy phrases such as \"the Antarctic Continent\". They searched for a more poetic replacement, suggesting various names such as Ultima and Antipodea. Eventually \"Antarctica\" was adopted in the 1890s.\n\nAntarctica has no indigenous population, and there is no evidence that it was seen by humans until the 19th century. However, in February 1775, during his second voyage, Captain Cook called the existence of such a polar continent \"probable\" and in another copy of his journal he wrote:\"[I] firmly believe it and its more than probable that we have seen a part of it\".\n\nHowever, belief in the existence of a \"Terra Australis\"—a vast continent in the far south of the globe to \"balance\" the northern lands of Europe, Asia and North Africa—had prevailed since the times of Ptolemy in the 1st century AD. Even in the late 17th century, after explorers had found that South America and Australia were not part of the fabled \"Antarctica\", geographers believed that the continent was much larger than its actual size.\nIntegral to the story of the origin of Antarctica's name is that it was not named \"Terra Australis\"—this name was given to Australia instead, because of the misconception that no significant landmass could exist further south. Explorer Matthew Flinders, in particular, has been credited with popularising the transfer of the name \"Terra Australis\" to Australia. He justified the titling of his book \"A Voyage to Terra Australis\" (1814) by writing in the introduction:\n\nEuropean maps continued to show this hypothesised land until Captain James Cook's ships, and , crossed the Antarctic Circle on 17 January 1773, in December 1773 and again in January 1774. Cook came within about of the Antarctic coast before retreating in the face of field ice in January 1773.\n\nAccording to various organisations (the National Science Foundation, NASA, the University of California, San Diego, the Russian State Museum of the Arctic and Antarctic, among others), ships captained by three men sighted Antarctica or its ice shelf in 1820: Fabian Gottlieb von Bellingshausen (a captain in the Imperial Russian Navy), Edward Bransfield (a captain in the Royal Navy), and Nathaniel Palmer (a sealer from Stonington, Connecticut).\n\nThe First Russian Antarctic Expedition led by Bellingshausen and Mikhail Lazarev on the 985-ton sloop-of-war \"Vostok\" (\"East\") and the 530-ton support vessel \"Mirny\" (\"Peaceful\") reached a point within of Queen Maud's Land and recorded the sight of an ice shelf at , on 27 January 1820, which became known as the Fimbul ice shelf. This happened three days before Bransfield sighted land and ten months before Palmer did so in November 1820. The first documented landing on Antarctica was by the American sealer John Davis, apparently at Hughes Bay, near Cape Charles, in West Antarctica on 7 February 1821, although some historians dispute this claim. The first recorded and confirmed landing was at Cape Adair in 1895 (by the Norwegian-Swedish whaling ship \"Antarctic\").\n\nOn 22 January 1840, two days after the discovery of the coast west of the Balleny Islands, some members of the crew of the 1837–40 expedition of Jules Dumont d'Urville disembarked on the highest islet of a group of rocky islands about 4 km from Cape Géodésie on the coast of Adélie Land where they took some mineral, algae, and animal samples.\n\nIn December 1839, as part of the United States Exploring Expedition of 1838–42 conducted by the United States Navy (sometimes called the \"Ex. Ex.\", or \"the Wilkes Expedition\"), an expedition sailed from Sydney, Australia, into the Antarctic Ocean, as it was then known, and reported the discovery \"of an Antarctic continent west of the Balleny Islands\" on 25 January 1840. That part of Antarctica was named \"Wilkes Land\", a name it retains to this day.\n\nExplorer James Clark Ross passed through what is now known as the Ross Sea and discovered Ross Island (both of which were named after him) in 1841. He sailed along a huge wall of ice that was later named the Ross Ice Shelf. Mount Erebus and Mount Terror are named after two ships from his expedition: and . Mercator Cooper landed in East Antarctica on 26 January 1853.\n\nDuring the Nimrod Expedition led by Ernest Shackleton in 1907, parties led by Edgeworth David became the first to climb Mount Erebus and to reach the South Magnetic Pole. Douglas Mawson, who assumed the leadership of the Magnetic Pole party on their perilous return, went on to lead several expeditions until retiring in 1931. In addition, Shackleton and three other members of his expedition made several firsts in December 1908 – February 1909: they were the first humans to traverse the Ross Ice Shelf, the first to traverse the Transantarctic Mountains (via the Beardmore Glacier), and the first to set foot on the South Polar Plateau. An expedition led by Norwegian polar explorer Roald Amundsen from the ship \"Fram\" became the first to reach the geographic South Pole on 14 December 1911, using a route from the Bay of Whales and up the Axel Heiberg Glacier. One month later, the doomed Scott Expedition reached the pole.\n\nRichard E. Byrd led several voyages to the Antarctic by plane in the 1930s and 1940s. He is credited with implementing mechanised land transport on the continent and conducting extensive geological and biological research. The first women to set foot on Antarctica did so in the 1930s with Caroline Mikkelsen landing on an island of Antarctica in 1935, and Ingrid Christensen stepping onto the mainland in 1937.\n\nIt was not until 31 October 1956, that anyone set foot on the South Pole again; on that day a U.S. Navy group led by Rear Admiral George J. Dufek successfully landed an aircraft there. The first women to step onto the South Pole were Pam Young, Jean Pearson, Lois Jones, Eileen McSaveney, Kay Lindsay and Terry Tickhill in 1969.\n\nThe first person to sail single-handed to Antarctica was the New Zealander David Henry Lewis, in 1972, in the 10-metre steel sloop \"Ice Bird\".\n\nOn 28 April 1979, Air New Zealand Flight 901, a McDonnell Douglas DC-10-30, crashed into Mount Erebus, killing all 257 people on board.\n\nPositioned asymmetrically around the South Pole and largely south of the Antarctic Circle, Antarctica is the southernmost continent and is surrounded by the Southern Ocean; alternatively, it may be considered to be surrounded by the southern Pacific, Atlantic, and Indian Oceans, or by the southern waters of the World Ocean. There are a number of rivers and lakes in Antarctica, the longest river being the Onyx. The largest lake, Vostok, is one of the largest sub-glacial lakes in the world. Antarctica covers more than , making it the fifth-largest continent, about 1.3 times as large as Europe. The coastline measures and is mostly characterised by ice formations, as the following table shows:\n\nAntarctica is divided in two by the Transantarctic Mountains close to the neck between the Ross Sea and the Weddell Sea. The portion west of the Weddell Sea and east of the Ross Sea is called West Antarctica and the remainder East Antarctica, because they roughly correspond to the Western and Eastern Hemispheres relative to the Greenwich meridian.\n\nAbout 98% of Antarctica is covered by the Antarctic ice sheet, a sheet of ice averaging at least thick. The continent has about 90% of the world's ice (and thereby about 70% of the world's fresh water). If all of this ice were melted, sea levels would rise about . In most of the interior of the continent, precipitation is very low, down to per year; in a few \"blue ice\" areas precipitation is lower than mass loss by sublimation, and so the local mass balance is negative. In the dry valleys, the same effect occurs over a rock base, leading to a desiccated landscape.\n\nWest Antarctica is covered by the West Antarctic Ice Sheet. The sheet has been of recent concern because of the small possibility of its collapse. If the sheet were to break down, ocean levels would rise by several metres in a relatively geologically short period of time, perhaps a matter of centuries. Several Antarctic ice streams, which account for about 10% of the ice sheet, flow to one of the many Antarctic ice shelves: see ice-sheet dynamics.\n\nEast Antarctica lies on the Indian Ocean side of the Transantarctic Mountains and comprises Coats Land, Queen Maud Land, Enderby Land, Mac. Robertson Land, Wilkes Land, and Victoria Land. All but a small portion of this region lies within the Eastern Hemisphere. East Antarctica is largely covered by the East Antarctic Ice Sheet.\n\nVinson Massif, the highest peak in Antarctica at , is located in the Ellsworth Mountains. Antarctica contains many other mountains, on both the main continent and the surrounding islands. Mount Erebus on Ross Island is the world's southernmost active volcano. Another well-known volcano is found on Deception Island, which is famous for a giant eruption in 1970. Minor eruptions are frequent, and lava flow has been observed in recent years. Other dormant volcanoes may potentially be active. In 2004, a potentially active underwater volcano was found in the Antarctic Peninsula by American and Canadian researchers.\n\nAntarctica is home to more than 70 lakes that lie at the base of the continental ice sheet. Lake Vostok, discovered beneath Russia's Vostok Station in 1996, is the largest of these subglacial lakes. It was once believed that the lake had been sealed off for 500,000 to one million years, but a recent survey suggests that, every so often, there are large flows of water from one lake to another.\n\nThere is some evidence, in the form of ice cores drilled to about above the water line, that Lake Vostok's waters may contain microbial life. The frozen surface of the lake shares similarities with Jupiter's moon, Europa. If life is discovered in Lake Vostok, it would strengthen the argument for the possibility of life on Europa. On 7 February 2008, a NASA team embarked on a mission to Lake Untersee, searching for extremophiles in its highly alkaline waters. If found, these resilient creatures could further bolster the argument for extraterrestrial life in extremely cold, methane-rich environments.\n\nIn September 2018, researchers at the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency released a high resolution terrain map (detail down to the size of a car, and less in some areas) of Antarctica, named the \"Reference Elevation Model of Antarctica\" (REMA).\n\nMore than 170 million years ago, Antarctica was part of the supercontinent Gondwana. Over time, Gondwana gradually broke apart, and Antarctica as we know it today was formed around 25 million years ago. Antarctica was not always cold, dry, and covered in ice sheets. At a number of points in its long history, it was farther north, experienced a tropical or temperate climate, was covered in forests, and inhabited by various ancient life forms.\n\nDuring the Cambrian period, Gondwana had a mild climate. West Antarctica was partially in the Northern Hemisphere, and during this period large amounts of sandstones, limestones and shales were deposited. East Antarctica was at the equator, where sea floor invertebrates and trilobites flourished in the tropical seas. By the start of the Devonian period (416 Ma), Gondwana was in more southern latitudes and the climate was cooler, though fossils of land plants are known from this time. Sand and silts were laid down in what is now the Ellsworth, Horlick and Pensacola Mountains. Glaciation began at the end of the Devonian period (360 Ma), as Gondwana became centred on the South Pole and the climate cooled, though flora remained. During the Permian period, the land became dominated by seed plants such as \"Glossopteris\", a pteridosperm which grew in swamps. Over time these swamps became deposits of coal in the Transantarctic Mountains. Towards the end of the Permian period, continued warming led to a dry, hot climate over much of Gondwana.\n\nAs a result of continued warming, the polar ice caps melted and much of Gondwana became a desert. In Eastern Antarctica, seed ferns or pteridosperms became abundant and large amounts of sandstone and shale were laid down at this time. Synapsids, commonly known as \"mammal-like reptiles\", were common in Antarctica during the Early Triassic and included forms such as \"Lystrosaurus\". The Antarctic Peninsula began to form during the Jurassic period (206–146 Ma), and islands gradually rose out of the ocean. Ginkgo trees, conifers, bennettites, horsetails, ferns and cycads were plentiful during this period. In West Antarctica, coniferous forests dominated through the entire Cretaceous period (146–66 Ma), though southern beech became more prominent towards the end of this period. Ammonites were common in the seas around Antarctica, and dinosaurs were also present, though only three Antarctic dinosaur genera (\"Cryolophosaurus\" and \"Glacialisaurus\", from the Hanson Formation, and \"Antarctopelta\") have been described to date. It was during this era that Gondwana began to break up.\n\nHowever, there is some evidence of antarctic marine glaciation during the Cretaceous period.\n\nThe cooling of Antarctica occurred stepwise, as the continental spread changed the oceanic currents from longitudinal equator-to-pole temperature-equalising currents to latitudinal currents that preserved and accentuated latitude temperature differences.\n\nAfrica separated from Antarctica in the Jurassic, around 160 Ma, followed by the Indian subcontinent in the early Cretaceous (about 125 Ma). By the end of the Cretaceous, about 66 Ma, Antarctica (then connected to Australia) still had a subtropical climate and flora, complete with a marsupial fauna. In the Eocene epoch, about 40 Ma Australia-New Guinea separated from Antarctica, so that latitudinal currents could isolate Antarctica from Australia, and the first ice began to appear. During the Eocene–Oligocene extinction event about 34 million years ago, CO levels have been found to be about 760 ppm and had been decreasing from earlier levels in the thousands of ppm.\n\nAround 23 Ma, the Drake Passage opened between Antarctica and South America, resulting in the Antarctic Circumpolar Current that completely isolated the continent. Models of the changes suggest that declining CO levels became more important. The ice began to spread, replacing the forests that then covered the continent.\n\nSince about 15 Ma, the continent has been mostly covered with ice.\n\nFossil \"Nothofagus\" leaves in the Meyer Desert Formation of the Sirius Group show that intermittent warm periods allowed \"Nothofagus\" shrubs to cling to the Dominion Range as late as 3–4 Ma (mid-late Pliocene). After that, the Pleistocene ice age covered the whole continent and destroyed all major plant life on it.\n\nThe geological study of Antarctica has been greatly hindered by nearly all of the continent being permanently covered with a thick layer of ice. However, new techniques such as remote sensing, ground-penetrating radar and satellite imagery have begun to reveal the structures beneath the ice.\n\nGeologically, West Antarctica closely resembles the Andes mountain range of South America. The Antarctic Peninsula was formed by uplift and metamorphism of sea bed sediments during the late Paleozoic and the early Mesozoic eras. This sediment uplift was accompanied by igneous intrusions and volcanism. The most common rocks in West Antarctica are andesite and rhyolite volcanics formed during the Jurassic period. There is also evidence of volcanic activity, even after the ice sheet had formed, in Marie Byrd Land and Alexander Island. The only anomalous area of West Antarctica is the Ellsworth Mountains region, where the stratigraphy is more similar to East Antarctica.\n\nEast Antarctica is geologically varied, dating from the Precambrian era, with some rocks formed more than 3 billion years ago. It is composed of a metamorphic and igneous platform which is the basis of the continental shield. On top of this base are coal and various modern rocks, such as sandstones, limestones and shales laid down during the Devonian and Jurassic periods to form the Transantarctic Mountains. In coastal areas such as Shackleton Range and Victoria Land some faulting has occurred.\n\nThe main mineral resource known on the continent is coal. It was first recorded near the Beardmore Glacier by Frank Wild on the Nimrod Expedition, and now low-grade coal is known across many parts of the Transantarctic Mountains. The Prince Charles Mountains contain significant deposits of iron ore. The most valuable resources of Antarctica lie offshore, namely the oil and natural gas fields found in the Ross Sea in 1973. Exploitation of all mineral resources is banned until 2048 by the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty.\n\nAntarctica is the coldest of Earth's continents. It used to be ice-free until about 34 million years ago, when it became covered with ice. The coldest natural air temperature ever recorded on Earth was at the Soviet (now Russian) Vostok Station in Antarctica on 21 July 1983. For comparison, this is 10.7 °C (20 °F) colder than subliming dry ice at one atmosphere of partial pressure, but since CO only makes up 0.039% of air, temperatures of less than would be needed to produce dry ice snow in Antarctica. A lower air temperature of was recorded in 2010 by satellite—however, it may be influenced by ground temperatures and was not recorded at a height of above the surface as required for the official air temperature records. Antarctica is a frozen desert with little precipitation; the South Pole receives less than per year, on average. Temperatures reach a minimum of between and in the interior in winter and reach a maximum of between and near the coast in summer. Sunburn is often a health issue as the snow surface reflects almost all of the ultraviolet light falling on it. Given the latitude, long periods of constant darkness or constant sunlight create climates unfamiliar to human beings in much of the rest of the world.\nEast Antarctica is colder than its western counterpart because of its higher elevation. Weather fronts rarely penetrate far into the continent, leaving the centre cold and dry. Despite the lack of precipitation over the central portion of the continent, ice there lasts for extended periods. Heavy snowfalls are common on the coastal portion of the continent, where snowfalls of up to in 48 hours have been recorded.\n\nAt the edge of the continent, strong katabatic winds off the polar plateau often blow at storm force. In the interior, wind speeds are typically moderate. During clear days in summer, more solar radiation reaches the surface at the South Pole than at the equator because of the 24 hours of sunlight each day at the Pole.\n\nAntarctica is colder than the Arctic for three reasons. First, much of the continent is more than above sea level, and temperature decreases with elevation in the troposphere. Second, the Arctic Ocean covers the north polar zone: the ocean's relative warmth is transferred through the icepack and prevents temperatures in the Arctic regions from reaching the extremes typical of the land surface of Antarctica. Third, the Earth is at aphelion in July (i.e., the Earth is farthest from the Sun in the Antarctic winter), and the Earth is at perihelion in January (i.e., the Earth is closest to the Sun in the Antarctic summer). The orbital distance contributes to a colder Antarctic winter (and a warmer Antarctic summer) but the first two effects have more impact.\n\nThe aurora australis, commonly known as the southern lights, is a glow observed in the night sky near the South Pole created by the plasma-full solar winds that pass by the Earth. Another unique spectacle is diamond dust, a ground-level cloud composed of tiny ice crystals. It generally forms under otherwise clear or nearly clear skies, so people sometimes also refer to it as clear-sky precipitation. A sun dog, a frequent atmospheric optical phenomenon, is a bright \"spot\" beside the true sun.\n\nSeveral governments maintain permanent manned research stations on the continent. The number of people conducting and supporting scientific research and other work on the continent and its nearby islands varies from about 1,000 in winter to about 5,000 in the summer, giving it a population density between 70 and 350 inhabitants per million square kilometres (180 and 900 per million square miles) at these times. Many of the stations are staffed year-round, the winter-over personnel typically arriving from their home countries for a one-year assignment. An Orthodox church—Trinity Church, opened in 2004 at the Russian Bellingshausen Station—is manned year-round by one or two priests, who are similarly rotated every year.\nThe first semi-permanent inhabitants of regions near Antarctica (areas situated south of the Antarctic Convergence) were British and American sealers who used to spend a year or more on South Georgia, from 1786 onward. During the whaling era, which lasted until 1966, the population of that island varied from over 1,000 in the summer (over 2,000 in some years) to some 200 in the winter. Most of the whalers were Norwegian, with an increasing proportion of Britons. The settlements included Grytviken, Leith Harbour, King Edward Point, Stromness, Husvik, Prince Olav Harbour, Ocean Harbour and Godthul. Managers and other senior officers of the whaling stations often lived together with their families. Among them was the founder of Grytviken, Captain Carl Anton Larsen, a prominent Norwegian whaler and explorer who, along with his family, adopted British citizenship in 1910.\n\nThe first child born in the southern polar region was Norwegian girl Solveig Gunbjørg Jacobsen, born in Grytviken on 8 October 1913, and her birth was registered by the resident British Magistrate of South Georgia. She was a daughter of Fridthjof Jacobsen, the assistant manager of the whaling station, and Klara Olette Jacobsen. Jacobsen arrived on the island in 1904 and became the manager of Grytviken, serving from 1914 to 1921; two of his children were born on the island.\n\nEmilio Marcos Palma was the first person born south of the 60th parallel south (the continental limit according to the Antarctic Treaty), as well as the first one born on the Antarctic mainland, in 1978 at Base Esperanza, on the tip of the Antarctic Peninsula; his parents were sent there along with seven other families by the Argentine government to determine if the continent was suitable for family life. In 1984, Juan Pablo Camacho was born at the Frei Montalva Station, becoming the first Chilean born in Antarctica. Several bases are now home to families with children attending schools at the station. As of 2009, eleven children were born in Antarctica (south of the 60th parallel south): eight at the Argentine Esperanza Base and three at the Chilean Frei Montalva Station.\n\nFew terrestrial vertebrates live in Antarctica, and those that do are limited to the sub-Antarctic islands. Invertebrate life includes microscopic mites like the \"Alaskozetes antarcticus\", lice, nematodes, tardigrades, rotifers, krill and springtails. The flightless midge \"Belgica antarctica\", up to in size, is the largest purely terrestrial animal in Antarctica. The snow petrel is one of only three birds that breed exclusively in Antarctica.\n\nSome species of marine animals exist and rely, directly or indirectly, on the phytoplankton. Antarctic sea life includes penguins, blue whales, orcas, colossal squids and fur seals. The emperor penguin is the only penguin that breeds during the winter in Antarctica, while the Adélie penguin breeds farther south than any other penguin. The southern rockhopper penguin has distinctive feathers around the eyes, giving the appearance of elaborate eyelashes. King penguins, chinstrap penguins, and gentoo penguins also breed in the Antarctic.\n\nThe Antarctic fur seal was very heavily hunted in the 18th and 19th centuries for its pelt by sealers from the United States and the United Kingdom. The Weddell seal, a \"true seal\", is named after Sir James Weddell, commander of British sealing expeditions in the Weddell Sea. Antarctic krill, which congregate in large schools, is the keystone species of the ecosystem of the Southern Ocean, and is an important food organism for whales, seals, leopard seals, fur seals, squid, icefish, penguins, albatrosses and many other birds.\n\nA census of sea life carried out during the International Polar Year and which involved some 500 researchers was released in 2010. The research is part of the global Census of Marine Life and has disclosed some remarkable findings. More than 235 marine organisms live in both polar regions, having bridged the gap of . Large animals such as some cetaceans and birds make the round trip annually. More surprising are small forms of life such as sea cucumbers and free-swimming snails found in both polar oceans. Various factors may aid in their distribution – fairly uniform temperatures of the deep ocean at the poles and the equator which differ by no more than 5 °C, and the major current systems or marine conveyor belt which transport eggs and larval stages.\n\nAbout 1,150 species of fungi have been recorded from Antarctica, of which about 750 are non-lichen-forming and 400 are lichen-forming. Some of these species are cryptoendoliths as a result of evolution under extreme conditions, and have significantly contributed to shaping the impressive rock formations of the McMurdo Dry Valleys and surrounding mountain ridges. The apparently simple morphology, scarcely differentiated structures, metabolic systems and enzymes still active at very low temperatures, and reduced life cycles shown by such fungi make them particularly suited to harsh environments such as the McMurdo Dry Valleys. In particular, their thick-walled and strongly melanised cells make them resistant to UV light. Those features can also be observed in algae and cyanobacteria, suggesting that these are adaptations to the conditions prevailing in Antarctica. This has led to speculation that, if life ever occurred on Mars, it might have looked similar to Antarctic fungi such as \"Cryomyces antarcticus\", and \"Cryomyces minteri\". Some of these fungi are also apparently endemic to Antarctica. Endemic Antarctic fungi also include certain dung-inhabiting species which have had to evolve in response to the double challenge of extreme cold while growing on dung, and the need to survive passage through the gut of warm-blooded animals.\n\nAbout 298 million years ago Permian forests started to cover the continent, and tundra vegetation survived as late as 15 million years ago, but the climate of present-day Antarctica does not allow extensive vegetation to form. A combination of freezing temperatures, poor soil quality, lack of moisture, and lack of sunlight inhibit plant growth. As a result, the diversity of plant life is very low and limited in distribution. The flora of the continent largely consists of bryophytes. There are about 100 species of mosses and 25 species of liverworts, but only three species of flowering plants, all of which are found in the Antarctic Peninsula: \"Deschampsia antarctica\" (Antarctic hair grass), \"Colobanthus quitensis\" (Antarctic pearlwort) and the non-native \"Poa annua\" (annual bluegrass). Growth is restricted to a few weeks in the summer.\n\nSeven hundred species of algae exist, most of which are phytoplankton. Multicoloured snow algae and diatoms are especially abundant in the coastal regions during the summer. Bacteria have been found living in the cold and dark as deep as under the ice.\n\nThe Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty (also known as the Environmental Protocol or Madrid Protocol) came into force in 1998, and is the main instrument concerned with conservation and management of biodiversity in Antarctica. The Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting is advised on environmental and conservation issues in Antarctica by the Committee for Environmental Protection. A major concern within this committee is the risk to Antarctica from unintentional introduction of non-native species from outside the region.\n\nThe passing of the Antarctic Conservation Act (1978) in the U.S. brought several restrictions to U.S. activity on Antarctica. The introduction of alien plants or animals can bring a criminal penalty, as can the extraction of any indigenous species. The overfishing of krill, which plays a large role in the Antarctic ecosystem, led officials to enact regulations on fishing. The Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR), a treaty that came into force in 1980, requires that regulations managing all Southern Ocean fisheries consider potential effects on the entire Antarctic ecosystem. Despite these new acts, unregulated and illegal fishing, particularly of Patagonian toothfish (marketed as Chilean Sea Bass in the U.S.), remains a serious problem. The illegal fishing of toothfish has been increasing, with estimates of 32,000 tonnes (35,300 short tons) in 2000.\n\nSeveral countries claim sovereignty in certain regions. While a few of these countries have mutually recognised each other's claims, the validity of these claims is not recognised universally.\n\nNew claims on Antarctica have been suspended since 1959, although in 2015 Norway formally defined Queen Maud Land as including the unclaimed area between it and the South Pole. Antarctica's status is regulated by the 1959 Antarctic Treaty and other related agreements, collectively called the Antarctic Treaty System. Antarctica is defined as all land and ice shelves south of 60° S for the purposes of the Treaty System. The treaty was signed by twelve countries including the Soviet Union (and later Russia), the United Kingdom, Argentina, Chile, Australia, and the United States. It set aside Antarctica as a scientific preserve, established freedom of scientific investigation and environmental protection, and banned military activity on Antarctica. This was the first arms control agreement established during the Cold War.\n\nIn 1983 the Antarctic Treaty Parties began negotiations on a convention to regulate mining in Antarctica. A coalition of international organisations launched a public pressure campaign to prevent any minerals development in the region, led largely by Greenpeace International, which operated its own scientific station—World Park Base—in the Ross Sea region from 1987 until 1991 and conducted annual expeditions to document environmental effects of humans on Antarctica. In 1988, the Convention on the Regulation of Antarctic Mineral Resources (CRAMRA) was adopted. The following year, however, Australia and France announced that they would not ratify the convention, rendering it dead for all intents and purposes. They proposed instead that a comprehensive regime to protect the Antarctic environment be negotiated in its place. The Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty (the \"Madrid Protocol\") was negotiated as other countries followed suit and on 14 January 1998 it entered into force. The Madrid Protocol bans all mining in Antarctica, designating Antarctica a \"natural reserve devoted to peace and science\".\nThe Antarctic Treaty prohibits any military activity in Antarctica, including the establishment of military bases and fortifications, military manoeuvres, and weapons testing. Military personnel or equipment are permitted only for scientific research or other peaceful purposes. The only documented military land manoeuvre has been the small Operation NINETY by the Argentine military in 1965.\n\nThe Argentine, British and Chilean claims all overlap, and have caused friction. On 18 December 2012, the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office named a previously unnamed area Queen Elizabeth Land in tribute to Queen Elizabeth II's Diamond Jubilee. On 22 December 2012, the UK ambassador to Argentina, John Freeman, was summoned to the Argentine government as protest against the claim. Argentine–UK relations had previously been damaged throughout 2012 due to disputes over the sovereignty of the nearby Falkland Islands, and the 30th anniversary of the Falklands War.\n\nThe areas shown as Australia's and New Zealand's claims were British territory until they were handed over following the countries' independence. Australia currently claims the largest area. The claims of Britain, Australia, New Zealand, France and Norway are all recognised by each other.\n\nOther countries participating as members of the Antarctic Treaty have a territorial interest in Antarctica, but the provisions of the Treaty do not allow them to make their claims while it is in force.\n\nThere is no economic activity in Antarctica at present, except for fishing off the coast and small-scale tourism, both based outside Antarctica.\n\nAlthough coal, hydrocarbons, iron ore, platinum, copper, chromium, nickel, gold and other minerals have been found, they have not been in large enough quantities to exploit. The 1991 Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty also restricts a struggle for resources. In 1998, a compromise agreement was reached to place an indefinite ban on mining, to be reviewed in 2048, further limiting economic development and exploitation. The primary economic activity is the capture and offshore trading of fish. Antarctic fisheries in 2000–01 reported landing 112,934 tonnes.\nSmall-scale \"expedition tourism\" has existed since 1957 and is currently subject to Antarctic Treaty and Environmental Protocol provisions, but in effect self-regulated by the International Association of Antarctica Tour Operators (IAATO). Not all vessels associated with Antarctic tourism are members of IAATO, but IAATO members account for 95% of the tourist activity. Travel is largely by small or medium ship, focusing on specific scenic locations with accessible concentrations of iconic wildlife. A total of 37,506 tourists visited during the 2006–07 Austral summer with nearly all of them coming from commercial ships; 38,478 were recorded in 2015–16.\n\nThere has been some concern over the potential adverse environmental and ecosystem effects caused by the influx of visitors. Some environmentalists and scientists have made a call for stricter regulations for ships and a tourism quota. The primary response by Antarctic Treaty Parties has been to develop, through their Committee for Environmental Protection and in partnership with IAATO, \"site use guidelines\" setting landing limits and closed or restricted zones on the more frequently visited sites. Antarctic sightseeing flights (which did not land) operated out of Australia and New Zealand until the fatal crash of Air New Zealand Flight 901 in 1979 on Mount Erebus, which killed all 257 aboard. Qantas resumed commercial overflights to Antarctica from Australia in the mid-1990s.\n\nAntarctic fisheries in 1998–99 (1 July – 30 June) reported landing 119,898 tonnes legally.\n\nAbout thirty countries maintain about seventy research stations (40 year-round or permanent, and 30 summer-only) in Antarctica, with an approximate population of 4000 in summer and 1000 in winter.\n\nThe ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 \"AQ\" is assigned to the entire continent regardless of jurisdiction. Different country calling codes and currencies are used for different settlements, depending on the administrating country. The Antarctican dollar, a souvenir item sold in the United States and Canada, is not legal tender.\n\nEach year, scientists from 28 different nations conduct experiments not reproducible in any other place in the world. In the summer more than 4,000 scientists operate research stations; this number decreases to just over 1,000 in the winter. McMurdo Station, which is the largest research station in Antarctica, is capable of housing more than 1,000 scientists, visitors, and tourists.\n\nResearchers include biologists, geologists, oceanographers, physicists, astronomers, glaciologists, and meteorologists. Geologists tend to study plate tectonics, meteorites from outer space, and resources from the breakup of the supercontinent Gondwana. Glaciologists in Antarctica are concerned with the study of the history and dynamics of floating ice, seasonal snow, glaciers, and ice sheets. Biologists, in addition to examining the wildlife, are interested in how harsh temperatures and the presence of people affect adaptation and survival strategies in a wide variety of organisms. Medical physicians have made discoveries concerning the spreading of viruses and the body's response to extreme seasonal temperatures. Astrophysicists at Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station study the celestial dome and cosmic microwave background radiation. Many astronomical observations are better made from the interior of Antarctica than from most surface locations because of the high elevation, which results in a thin atmosphere; low temperature, which minimises the amount of water vapour in the atmosphere; and absence of light pollution, thus allowing for a view of space clearer than anywhere else on Earth. Antarctic ice serves as both the shield and the detection medium for the largest neutrino telescope in the world, built below Amundsen–Scott station.\n\nSince the 1970s an important focus of study has been the ozone layer in the atmosphere above Antarctica. In 1985, three British scientists working on data they had gathered at Halley Station on the Brunt Ice Shelf discovered the existence of a hole in this layer. It was eventually determined that the destruction of the ozone was caused by chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) emitted by human products. With the ban of CFCs in the Montreal Protocol of 1989, climate projections indicate that the ozone layer will return to 1980 levels between 2050 and 2070.\n\nIn September 2006 NASA satellite data revealed that the Antarctic ozone hole was larger than at any other time on record, at . The impacts of the depleted ozone layer on climate changes occurring in Antarctica are not well understood.\n\nIn 2007 The Polar Geospatial Center was founded. The Polar Geospatial Center uses geospatial and remote sensing technology to provide mapping services to American federally funded research teams. Currently, the Polar Geospatial Center can image all of Antarctica at 50 cm resolution every 45 days.\n\nOn 6 September 2007 Belgian-based International Polar Foundation unveiled the Princess Elisabeth station, the world's first zero-emissions polar science station in Antarctica to research climate change. Costing $16.3 million, the prefabricated station, which is part of the International Polar Year, was shipped to the South Pole from Belgium by the end of 2008 to monitor the health of the polar regions. Belgian polar explorer Alain Hubert stated: \"This base will be the first of its kind to produce zero emissions, making it a unique model of how energy should be used in the Antarctic.\" Johan Berte is the leader of the station design team and manager of the project which conducts research in climatology, glaciology and microbiology.\n\nIn January 2008 British Antarctic Survey (BAS) scientists, led by Hugh Corr and David Vaughan, reported (in the journal \"Nature Geoscience\") that 2,200 years ago, a volcano erupted under Antarctica's ice sheet (based on airborne survey with radar images). The biggest eruption in Antarctica in the last 10,000 years, the volcanic ash was found deposited on the ice surface under the Hudson Mountains, close to Pine Island Glacier.\n\nA study from 2014 estimated that during the Pleistocene, the East Antarctic Ice Sheet (EAIS) thinned by at least , and that thinning since the Last Glacial Maximum for the EAIS area is less than and probably started after c. 14 ka.\n\nMeteorites from Antarctica are an important area of study of material formed early in the solar system; most are thought to come from asteroids, but some may have originated on larger planets. The first meteorite was found in 1912, and named the Adelie Land meteorite. In 1969, a Japanese expedition discovered nine meteorites. Most of these meteorites have fallen onto the ice sheet in the last million years. Motion of the ice sheet tends to concentrate the meteorites at blocking locations such as mountain ranges, with wind erosion bringing them to the surface after centuries beneath accumulated snowfall. Compared with meteorites collected in more temperate regions on Earth, the Antarctic meteorites are well-preserved.\n\nThis large collection of meteorites allows a better understanding of the abundance of meteorite types in the solar system and how meteorites relate to asteroids and comets. New types of meteorites and rare meteorites have been found. Among these are pieces blasted off the Moon, and probably Mars, by impacts. These specimens, particularly ALH84001 discovered by ANSMET, are at the centre of the controversy about possible evidence of microbial life on Mars. Because meteorites in space absorb and record cosmic radiation, the time elapsed since the meteorite hit the Earth can be determined from laboratory studies. The elapsed time since fall, or terrestrial residence age, of a meteorite represents more information that might be useful in environmental studies of Antarctic ice sheets.\n\nIn 2006 a team of researchers from Ohio State University used gravity measurements by NASA's GRACE satellites to discover the Wilkes Land crater, which probably formed about 250 million years ago.\n\nIn January 2013 an meteorite was discovered frozen in ice on the Nansen ice field by a Search for Antarctic Meteorites, Belgian Approach (SAMBA) mission.\n\nIn January 2015 reports emerged of a circular structure, supposedly a meteorite crater, on the surface snow of King Baudouin Ice Shelf. Satellite images from 25 years ago seemingly show it.\n\nDue to its location at the South Pole, Antarctica receives relatively little solar radiation except along the southern summer. This means that it is a very cold continent where water is mostly in the form of ice. Precipitation is low (most of Antarctica is a desert) and almost always in the form of snow, which accumulates and forms a giant ice sheet which covers the land. Parts of this ice sheet form moving glaciers known as ice streams, which flow towards the edges of the continent. Next to the continental shore are many ice shelves. These are floating extensions of outflowing glaciers from the continental ice mass. Offshore, temperatures are also low enough that ice is formed from seawater through most of the year. It is important to understand the various types of Antarctic ice to understand possible effects on sea levels and the implications of global cooling.\n\nSea ice extent expands annually in the Antarctic winter and most of this ice melts in the summer. This ice is formed from the ocean water and floats in the same water and thus does not contribute to rise in sea level. The extent of sea ice around Antarctica has remained roughly constant in recent decades, although the thickness changes are unclear.\n\nMelting of floating ice shelves (ice that originated on the land) does not in itself contribute much to sea-level rise (since the ice displaces only its own mass of water). However, it is the outflow of the ice from the land to form the ice shelf which causes a rise in global sea level. This effect is offset by snow falling back onto the continent. Recent decades have witnessed several dramatic collapses of large ice shelves around the coast of Antarctica, especially along the Antarctic Peninsula. Concerns have been raised that disruption of ice shelves may result in increased glacial outflow from the continental ice mass.\n\nOn the continent itself, the large volume of ice present stores around 70% of the world's fresh water. This ice sheet is constantly gaining ice from snowfall and losing ice through outflow to the sea.\n\nSheperd et al. 2012, found that different satellite methods for measuring ice mass and change were in good agreement and combining methods leads to more certainty with East Antarctica, West Antarctica, and the Antarctic Peninsula changing in mass by +14 ± 43, –65 ± 26, and –20 ± 14 gigatonnes (Gt) per year. The same group's 2018 systematic review study estimated that ice loss across the entire continent was 43 gigatonnes per year on average during the period from 1992 to 2002 but has accelerated to an average of 220 gigatonnes per year during the five years from 2012 to 2017. NASA's Climate Change website indicates a compatible overall trend of greater than 100 gigatonnes of ice loss per year since 2002.\n\nA single 2015 study by H. Jay Zwally et al. found instead that the net change in ice mass is slightly positive at approximately 82 gigatonnes per year (with significant regional variation) which would result in Antarctic activity reducing global sea-level rise by 0.23 mm per year. However, one critic, Eric Rignot of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, states that this outlying study's findings \"are at odds with all other independent methods: re-analysis, gravity measurements, mass budget method, and other groups using the same data\" and appears to arrive at more precise values than current technology and mathematical approaches would permit.\n\nEast Antarctica is a cold region with a ground base above sea level and occupies most of the continent. This area is dominated by small accumulations of snowfall which becomes ice and thus eventually seaward glacial flows. The mass balance of the East Antarctic Ice Sheet as a whole is thought to be slightly positive (lowering sea level) or near to balance. However, increased ice outflow has been suggested in some regions.\n\nSome of Antarctica has been warming up; particularly strong warming has been noted on the Antarctic Peninsula. A study by Eric Steig published in 2009 noted for the first time that the continent-wide average surface temperature trend of Antarctica is slightly positive at >0.05 °C (0.09 °F) per decade from 1957 to 2006. This study also noted that West Antarctica has warmed by more than 0.1 °C (0.2 °F) per decade in the last 50 years, and this warming is strongest in winter and spring. This is partly offset by autumn cooling in East Antarctica. There is evidence from one study that Antarctica is warming as a result of human carbon dioxide emissions, but this remains ambiguous. The amount of surface warming in West Antarctica, while large, has not led to appreciable melting at the surface, and is not directly affecting the West Antarctic Ice Sheet's contribution to sea level. Instead the recent increases in glacier outflow are believed to be due to an inflow of warm water from the deep ocean, just off the continental shelf. The net contribution to sea level from the Antarctic Peninsula is more likely to be a direct result of the much greater atmospheric warming there.\n\nIn 2002 the Antarctic Peninsula's Larsen-B ice shelf collapsed. Between 28 February and 8 March 2008, about of ice from the Wilkins Ice Shelf on the southwest part of the peninsula collapsed, putting the remaining of the ice shelf at risk. The ice was being held back by a \"thread\" of ice about wide, prior to its collapse on 5 April 2009. According to NASA, the most widespread Antarctic surface melting of the past 30 years occurred in 2005, when an area of ice comparable in size to California briefly melted and refroze; this may have resulted from temperatures rising to as high as .\n\nA study published in \"Nature Geoscience\" in 2013 (online in December 2012) identified central West Antarctica as one of the fastest-warming regions on Earth. The researchers present a complete temperature record from Antarctica's Byrd Station and assert that it \"reveals a linear increase in annual temperature between 1958 and 2010 by 2.4±1.2 °C\".\n\nThere is a large area of low ozone concentration or \"ozone hole\" over Antarctica. This hole covers almost the whole continent and was at its largest in September 2008, when the longest lasting hole on record remained until the end of December. The hole was detected by scientists in 1985 and has tended to increase over the years of observation. The ozone hole is attributed to the emission of chlorofluorocarbons or CFCs into the atmosphere, which decompose the ozone into other gases.\n\nSome scientific studies suggest that ozone depletion may have a dominant role in governing climatic change in Antarctica (and a wider area of the Southern Hemisphere). Ozone absorbs large amounts of ultraviolet radiation in the stratosphere. Ozone depletion over Antarctica can cause a cooling of around 6 °C in the local stratosphere. This cooling has the effect of intensifying the westerly winds which flow around the continent (the polar vortex) and thus prevents outflow of the cold air near the South Pole. As a result, the continental mass of the East Antarctic ice sheet is held at lower temperatures, and the peripheral areas of Antarctica, especially the Antarctic Peninsula, are subject to higher temperatures, which promote accelerated melting. Models also suggest that the ozone depletion/enhanced polar vortex effect also accounts for the recent increase in sea ice just offshore of the continent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13994453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13994453", "title": "Brazilian constitutional referendum, 1963", "text": "Brazilian constitutional referendum, 1963\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Brazil on 6 January 1963. Voters were asked whether they approved of a constitutional amendment made in 1961 that transferred many of the President's powers to the National Congress. The changes were rejected by over 80% of voters.\n\nFollowing the resignation of Jânio Quadros on 25 August 1961 and the resistance of the Armed Forces and the upper classes to allowing left-wing Vice-President João Goulart to take office, a serious crisis developed, which almost resulted in a civil war. Goulart, who had been on an official visit to the People's Republic of China, was forbidden to return to the country.\n\nDue to Goulart's massive popular support, rather than removing Goulart from office, the National Congress proposed an amendment to the 1946 Constitution, changing the form of government from presidentialism to parliamentarianism, reducing the powers of the President and creating a new post of Prime Minister. The amendment was approved and the military suspended their veto over Goulart, who took office on Independence Day in 1961.\n\nHowever, the system of government, which had been based on the German model, did not work well, due to the hurry in which the amendment was approved. The ambitions of Goulart and his rivals Juscelino Kubitschek and Carlos Lacerda, both of whom were seeking to become President in the forthcoming 1965 elections, also contributed to the failure of parliamentarianism.\n\nIn less than two years, there were three Prime Ministers; Tancredo Neves (1961–1962), Brochado da Rocha (July–September 1962) and Hermes Lima (1962–1963).\n\nVoters were asked \"Do you approve the amendment that established parliamentarism?\" (\"Aprova o ato adicional que instituiu o parlamentarismo?\").\n\nGoulart, having achieved full presidential powers, started his Basic Reforms plan (Reformas de Base), which led to a military coup d'état in April 1964.\n\n"}
{"id": "14284300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14284300", "title": "Carl Prinzler", "text": "Carl Prinzler\n\nCarl Prinzler was the Manager of the Builders Hardware Department at the Vonnegut Hardware Company in 1903. Prinzler, along with his architect and engineer neighbor Henry H. DuPont, developed the first \"panic bar\" device for doors which can be opened from the inside despite being locked on the outside. This idea and subsequently an invention came about as a result of the Iroquois Theater Fire. Prinzler devoted himself to the invention to ensure another tragedy such as this never happened again.\n\nThe panic bar was marketed under the Von Duprin name. Von Duprin is a company which makes security related products and nowadays belongs to Allegion.\n\n"}
{"id": "19177039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19177039", "title": "Central Liquidity Facility", "text": "Central Liquidity Facility\n\nThe Central Liquidity Facility (CLF) is a mixed-ownership United States (U.S.) government corporation created to improve the general financial stability of credit unions by serving as a liquidity lender to credit unions experiencing unusual or unexpected liquidity shortfalls. Member credit unions own the CLF which exists within the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA). The President of the CLF manages the facility under the oversight of the NCUA Board.\n\nThe Central Liquidity Facility was created by the U.S. Congress in 1998 with the National Credit Union Central Liquidity Facility Act, Subchapter III of the Federal Credit Union Act. The primary purpose of the CLF is to provide loans to credit unions to meet short or long term liquidity needs. It performs the same general functions for credit unions that the Federal Reserve System performs for member banks.\n\nThe Central Liquidity Facility is backed by the credit of the U.S. government. The CLF may borrow up to 12 times its subscribed capital stock and surplus (12 USC 1795f(a)(4)(A)).\n\nCLF is organized into five regional branches to serve different states. To become a member, credit unions purchase stock in the Central Liquidity Facility, at an amount equal to 1/2 of 1% of an average of six months of their unimpaired capital and surplus or $50 (whichever is greater).\n\nThe Central Liquidity Facility is a 501(c)(1) organization. \n\n"}
{"id": "24938430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24938430", "title": "Colorado Mounted Rangers", "text": "Colorado Mounted Rangers\n\nThe Colorado Mounted Rangers (CMR), also historically known as the Colorado Rangers, are a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization and former statutory state law enforcement auxiliary that assisted law enforcement and other first responder agencies across Colorado. In July 2018, the Colorado Mounted Rangers ceased their operational activities, transitioning those roles to the newly formed Colorado Rangers Law Enforcement Shared Reserve, a government agency. CMR rangers annually provided more than 50,000 volunteer hours to the State of Colorado supporting local police and sheriffs departments by providing additional peace officer resources in times of need. Rangers were unpaid and the Auxiliary was not funded by tax dollars. The Colorado Rangers are the oldest statewide law enforcement organization in Colorado, originally organized in 1861 by the Colorado Territory.\n\nIn 2012, thanks to a non-partisan effort by the Colorado General Assembly, Governor John Hickenlooper signed Senate Bill 12-072 (Link) into law, formally recognizing the Ranger's role as a Law Enforcement Auxiliary in the Colorado State Statutes.\n\n\"Therefore, the general assembly declares that the Colorado Mounted Rangers should be established as an all-volunteer, unpaid auxiliary unit for the purpose of lending assistance to...law enforcement agencies in the state.\" \n\nSection 24-32-2222 in Senate Bill 12-072 was then harmonized with House Bill 12-1283 and relocated to section 24-33.5-822 placing the Rangers under the Department of Public Safety in 24-33.5 C.R.S.\n\nWhile the Rangers had been operating under formal memoranda of understanding (MOU's) with agencies across the State, this legislation formalized the Colorado Mounted Rangers' role as the State Law Enforcement Auxiliary and clarified it in the Colorado Revised Statutes.\n\nAt their peak, the Colorado Mounted Rangers had a memorandum of understanding with the Colorado Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management and partnered with dozens of law enforcement and other government agencies including State, County and local agencies.\nThe Colorado Mounted Rangers had an operational Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with each of the following Law Enforcement, OEM, Fire Agencies and Government entities:\n\nSTATE AGENCIES:<br>\n- Auraria Police (University of Denver / Metro State University / Community College of Denver)<br>\n- Community College of Aurora\n\nSHERIFFS OFFICES:<br>\n- Adams County SO<br>\n- Archuleta County SO<br>\n- Crowley County SO<br>\n- Douglas County SO<br>\n- Eagle County SO<br>\n- Fremont County SO<br>\n- Gilpin County SO<br>\n- Kiowa County SO<br>\n- La Plata County SO\n\nPOLICE DEPARTMENTS:<br>\n- Aguilar Marshal <br>\n- Ault PD<br>\n- Commerce City PD<br>\n- Dacono PD <br>\n- Dillon PD<br>\n- Durango PD <br>\n- Elizabeth PD <br>\n- Empire PD<br>\n- Evans PD <br>\n- Fairplay PD <br>\n- Firestone PD <br>\n- Florence PD <br>\n- Fort Lupton PD <br>\n- Fowler PD <br>\n- Frederick PD <br>\n- Fountain PD <br>\n- Georgetown PD <br>\n- Glendale PD<br>\n- Greeley PD <br>\n- Haxtun PD <br>\n- Idaho Springs PD<br>\n- Johnstown PD <br>\n- Kiowa PD <br>\n- LaSalle PD <br>\n- Manitou Springs PD<br>\n- Milliken PD <br>\n- Nederland PD <br>\n- Oak Creek PD <br>\n- Rocky Ford PD <br>\n- Salida PD <br>\n- Vail PD <br>\n- Windsor PD <br>\n- Woodland Park PD\n\nCOUNTY GOVERNMENTS:\n\n- Adams County OEM<br>\n- Teller County\n\nTOWN / CITY GOVERNMENTS:<br>\n- Bayfield<br>\n- Dillon<br>\n- Elizabeth<br>\n- Green Mountain Falls<br>\n- Monument<br>\n- Ordway<br>\n- Palmer Lake<br>\n- Ramah\n\nFIRE PROTECTION DISTRICTS:\n\n- Canon City Area FPD\n\nRangers regularly provided additional personnel to these agencies when requested and acted as peace officers under their memorandum of understanding agreements. Rangers acting under the MOU were under the direction and supervision of the Law Enforcement Agency they were supporting.\n\nIn 1999, fallen Ranger Edward P. Bell's name was enshrined on the Colorado Law Enforcement Memorial which is located on the grounds of the Colorado State Patrol Academy in Golden, Colorado. Ranger Bell is the only Ranger in the over 150-year history of the Rangers to have been killed in the line of duty.\n\nIn 2001, the Colorado General Assembly's House of Representatives passed House Resolution 01-1009 to recognize and honor the Colorado Mounted Rangers service to the Citizens of Colorado since the days of the Colorado Territory.\n\nIn 2002, the Colorado State Senate passed Senate Resolution 02-008 that recognized the long-standing tradition of honorable service that the Colorado Mounted Rangers have provided since 1861.\n\nIn 2004, Governor Bill Owens declared Feb. 21, 2004, \"Colorado Mounted Ranger Day\" honoring Rangers continuing contributions. Governor Owens also acknowledged the Rangers one time role as the \"Governor's Guard\".\n\nIn 2011, fallen Ranger Edward P. Bell's name was enshrined at the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, D.C. during National Police Week. Rangers made the journey to Washington D.C. to participate in the ceremonies honoring fallen officers from across the United States.\n\nIn 2011, United States Senator Michael Bennet recognized the Rangers 150 years of service to the citizens of Colorado. Senator Bennett thanked the Rangers for answering the call to public service.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165119", "title": "Cowardice", "text": "Cowardice\n\nCowardice is a trait wherein fear and excessive self-concern override doing or saying what is right, good, and of help to others or oneself in a time of need—it is the opposite of courage. As a label, \"cowardice\" indicates a failure of character in the face of a challenge. One who succumbs to cowardice is known as a coward.\n\nMany military codes of justice proscribe cowardice in combat as a crime punishable by death (note the phrase \"shot at dawn\").\n\nAs the opposite of an action or trait that many existing and formerly extant cultures demand, cowardice rates as a character flaw that many societies and their representatives stigmatize and/or punish.\n\nAccording to the \"Online Etymology Dictionary\", the word \"coward\" came into English from the Old French word \"coart\" (modern French \"couard\"), which is a combination of the word for \"tail\" (Modern French \"queue\", Latin \"cauda\") and an agent noun suffix. It would therefore have meant \"one with a tail\", which may conjur an image of an animal displaying its tail in flight of fear (\"turning tail\"), or a dog's habit of putting its tail between its legs when it is afraid. Like many other English words of French origin, this word was introduced in the English language by the French-speaking Normans, after the Norman conquest of England in 1066.\n\nThe English surname Coward (as in Noël Coward), however, has the same origin and meaning as the word \"cowherd\".\n\nActs of cowardice have long been punishable by military law, which defines a wide range of cowardly offenses, including desertion in face of the enemy and surrendering to the enemy against orders. The punishment for such acts is typically severe, ranging from corporal punishment to the death sentence. Cowardly conduct is specifically mentioned within the United States Uniform Code of Military Justice, in Article 99.\n\nGenerally, cowardice was punishable by execution during World War I, and those who were caught were often court-martialed and, in many cases, executed by firing squad. British men executed for cowardice were often not commemorated on war memorials, and their families often did not receive benefits and had to endure social stigma. However, many decades later, those soldiers all received posthumous pardons in the Armed Forces Act 2006 and have been commemorated with the Shot at Dawn Memorial. Unlike British, French, German, and Soviet/Russian forces, the United States forces tried soldiers for cowardice but never followed through with execution while German commanders were less inclined to use execution as a form of punishment.\n\nConsiderable controversy was generated by military historian S.L.A. Marshall, who claimed that 75% of U.S. combat troops in World War II never fired at the enemy for the purpose of killing, even while under direct threat. Author Dave Grossman attempted to explain these findings in his book \"\". Marshall's findings were later challenged as mistaken or even fabricated, and were not replicated in a more rigorous study of Canadian troops in World War II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4144453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4144453", "title": "Dark figure of crime", "text": "Dark figure of crime\n\nThe dark (or hidden) figure of crime is a term employed by criminologists and sociologists to describe the amount of unreported or undiscovered crime.\n\nThis gap between reported and unreported crimes calls the reliability of official crime statistics into question, but all measures of crime have a dark figure to some degree. The gap in official statistics is largest for less serious crimes.\n\nComparisons between official statistics, such as the Uniform Crime Reports and the National Incident Based Reporting System, and victim studies, such as the National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS), attempt to provide an insight into the amount of unreported crime.\n\nSelf-report studies are also used in comparison with official statistics to assess the dark figure of crime.\n\n"}
{"id": "46849557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46849557", "title": "ESign (India)", "text": "ESign (India)\n\nAadhaar eSign is an online electronic signature service in India to facilitate an Aadhaar holder to digitally sign a document. The signature service is facilitated by authenticating the Aadhar holder via the Aadhar-based e-KYC (electronic Know Your Customer) service.\n\nTo eSign a document, one has to have an Aadhaar card and a mobile number registered with Aadhaar. With these two things, an Indian citizen can sign a document remotely without being physically present.\n\nThe notification issued by Government of India in this regard stipulates the following procedure for the e-authentication using Aadhaar e-KYC services.\n\nAuthentication of an electronic record by e-authentication technique which shall be done by \nOrganisations and individuals seeking to obtain the eSigning Service can utilize the services of various service providers. There are empanelled service providers with whom organisations can register as an Application Service Prover after submitting the requisite documents, getting UAT access, building the application around the service and going through an IT Audit by an CERT-IN empanelled auditor.\n\nHowever, the process of registering as an Application Service Provider is cumbersome, and requires huge investments of time, money and resources in complying with the regulations and building a suitable application. Most organisations prefer using services of plug-n-play gateway providers who take the responsibility of complying with the regulations, hence simplifying the process for the market.\n\n"}
{"id": "757838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=757838", "title": "Estate (law)", "text": "Estate (law)\n\nAn estate, in common law, is the net worth of a person at any point in time alive or dead. It is the sum of a person's assets – legal rights, interests and entitlements to property of any kind – less all liabilities at that time. The issue is of special legal significance on a question of bankruptcy and death of the person. (See inheritance.)\n\nDepending on the particular context, the term is also used in reference to an estate in land or of a particular kind of property (such as real estate or personal estate). The term is also used to refer to the sum of a person's assets only.\n\nThe equivalent in civil law legal systems is patrimony.\n\nUnder United States bankruptcy law, a person's estate consists of all assets or property of any kind available for distribution to creditors. However, some assets are recognized as exempt to allow a person significant resources to restart his or her financial life. In the United States, asset exemptions depend on various factors, including state and federal law. The estate (or assets) of a bankrupt person is administered by a trustee in bankruptcy. The legal position in all common law countries is similar in this respect.\n\nIn land law, the term \"estate\" is a remnant of the English feudal system, which created a complex hierarchy of estates and interests in land. The allodial or fee simple interest is the most complete ownership that one can have of property in the common law system. An estate can be an estate for years, an estate at will, a life estate (extinguishing at the death of the holder), an estate \"pur auter vie\" (a life interest for the life of another person) or a fee tail estate (to the heirs of one's body) or some more limited kind of heir (e.g. to heirs male of one's body).\n\nFee simple estates may be either fee simple absolute or defeasible (\"i.e. subject to future conditions\") like fee simple determinable and fee simple subject to condition subsequent; this is the complex system of future interests (q.v.) which allows concepts of trusts and estates to elide into actuarial science through the use of life contingencies.\n\nEstate in land can also be divided into estates of inheritance and other estates that are not of inheritance. The fee simple estate and the fee tail estate are estates of inheritance; they pass to the owner's heirs by operation of law, either without restrictions (in the case of fee simple), or with restrictions (in the case of fee tail). The estate for years and the life estate are estates not of inheritance; the owner owns nothing after the term of years has passed, and cannot pass on anything to his or her heirs.\n\nLegal estates and interests are called rights \"in rem\", and said to be \"good against the world\".\n\nSuperimposed on the legal estate and interests in land, English courts also created \"equitable interests\" over the same legal interests. These obligations are called trusts which will be enforceable in a court. A trustee is the person who holds the legal title to property, while the beneficiary is said to have an equitable interest in the property.\n\n"}
{"id": "1374353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1374353", "title": "Eurasian Patent Organization", "text": "Eurasian Patent Organization\n\nThe Eurasian Patent Organization (EAPO) is a regional organization set up in 1995 by the Eurasian Patent Convention (EAPC). Its task is to grant Eurasian patents. The official language of the EAPO is Russian and its current president is Alexander Grigoriev.\n\nThere are 8 member states: Turkmenistan, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Tajikistan, Russia, the Azerbaijan Republic, the Republic of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Armenia. The Republic of Moldova is a former member state. On 26 October 2011, the Republic of Moldova denounced the Eurasian Patent Convention, meaning that, since 26 April 2012, it is no longer party to the Convention. In the meantime, in December 2011, negotiations on a \"validation and co-operation agreement\" between the European Patent Office (EPO) and the Republic of Moldova were authorized by the Administrative Council of the European Patent Organisation.\n\n"}
{"id": "239648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239648", "title": "Extradition", "text": "Extradition\n\nExtradition is an act where one jurisdiction delivers a person accused or convicted of committing a crime in another jurisdiction, over to their law enforcement. It is a cooperative law enforcement process between the two jurisdictions and depends on the arrangements made between them. Besides the legal aspects of the process, extradition also involves the physical transfer of custody of the person being extradited to the legal authority of the requesting jurisdiction.\n\nThrough the extradition process, one sovereign jurisdiction typically makes a formal request to another sovereign jurisdiction (\"the requested state\"). If the fugitive is found within the territory of the requested state, then the requested state may arrest the fugitive and subject him or her to its extradition process. The extradition procedures to which the fugitive will be subjected are dependent on the law and practice of the requested state.\n\nBetween countries, extradition is normally regulated by treaties. Where extradition is compelled by laws, such as among sub-national jurisdictions, the concept may be known more generally as rendition. It is an ancient mechanism, dating back to at least the 13th century BC, when an Egyptian Pharaoh, Ramesses II, negotiated an extradition treaty with Hittite King, Hattusili III.\n\nThe consensus in international law is that a state does not have any obligation to surrender an alleged criminal to a foreign state, because one principle of sovereignty is that every state has legal authority over the people within its borders. Such absence of international obligation, and the desire for the right to demand such criminals from other countries, have caused a web of extradition treaties or agreements to evolve. When no applicable extradition agreement is in place, a sovereign may still request the expulsion or lawful return of an individual pursuant to the requested state’s domestic law. This can be accomplished through the immigration laws of the requested state or other facets of the requested state’s domestic law. Similarly, the codes of penal procedure in many countries contain provisions allowing for extradition to take place in the absence of an extradition agreement. Sovereigns may, therefore, still request the expulsion or lawful return of a fugitive from the territory of a requested state in the absence of an extradition treaty.\n\nNo country in the world has an extradition treaty with all other countries; for example, the United States lacks extradition treaties with China, the Russian Federation, Namibia, the United Arab Emirates, North Korea, Bahrain, and many other countries. (See Extradition law in the United States.)\n\nBy enacting laws or in concluding treaties or agreements, countries determine the conditions under which they may entertain or deny extradition requests. Observing fundamental human rights is also an important reason for denying some extradition requests. It is common for human rights exceptions to be specifically incorporated in bilateral treaties. Such bars can be invoked in relation to the treatment of the individual in the receiving country, including their trial and sentence. These bars may also extend to take account of the effect on family of the individual if extradition proceeds. Therefore, human rights recognised by international and regional agreements may be the basis for denying extradition requests. However, cases where extradition is denied should be treated as independent exceptions and will only occur in exceptional circumstances.\n\nCommon bars to extradition include:\n\nGenerally the act for which extradition is sought must constitute a crime punishable by some minimum penalty in both the requesting and the requested states.\n\nMany countries refuse to extradite suspects of political crimes. See political offence exception.\n\nSome countries refuse extradition on grounds that the person, if extradited, may receive capital punishment or face torture. A few go as far as to cover all punishments that they themselves would not administer.\n\nJurisdiction over a crime can be invoked to refuse extradition. In particular, the fact that the person in question is a nation's own citizen causes that country to have jurisdiction (see next point).\n\nSome countries, such as Austria, Brazil, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Japan, Norway, the People's Republic of China, the Republic of China (Taiwan), Russia, Switzerland and Syria forbid extradition of their own citizens. These countries often have laws in place that give them jurisdiction over crimes committed abroad by or against citizens. By virtue of such jurisdiction, they prosecute and try citizens accused of crimes committed abroad as if the crime had occurred within the country's borders (see, e.g., trial of Xiao Zhen).\n\nIn a limited number of cases Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights has been invoked to stop extradition from proceeding. Article 8 states that everyone has the right to the respect of their private and family life. This is achieved by way of balancing the potential harm to private life against the public interest in upholding the extradition arrangement. While this article is useful as it provide for a prohibition to extradition, the threshold required to meet this prohibition is high. Article 8 does explicitly provide that this right is subject to limits in the interests of national security and public safety, so these limits must be weighed in a balancing of priority against this right. Cases where extradition is sought usually involve serious crimes so while these limits are often justified there have been cases where extradition could not be justified in light of the individual's family life. Cases to date have mostly involved dependant children where the extradition would be counter to the best interests of this child. In the case of \"FK v. Polish Judicial Authority\" the court held that it would violate article 8 for a mother of five young children to be extradited amidst charges of minor fraud which were committed number of years ago. This case is an example of how the gravity of the crime for which extradition was sought was not proportionate to protecting the interests of the individual's family. However the court in this case noted that even in circumstances where extradition is refused a custodial sentence will be given to comply with the principles of international comity. In contrast the case of \"HH v Deputy Prosecutor of the Italian Republic, Genoa\" is an example of when the public interest for allowing extradition outweighed the best interests of the children. In this case both parents were being extradited to Italy for serious drug importation crimes. \nArticle 8 does not only address the needs of children, but all family members yet the high threshold required to satisfy Article 8 means that the vulnerability of children is the most likely circumstance to meet this threshold. In the case of \"Norris v US (No 2)\" a man sought to argue that if extradited his health would be undermined and it would cause his wife depression. This claim was rejected by the Court which stated that a successful claim under Article 8 would require “exceptional” circumstances.\n\nSuicide Risk: Cases where there is risk of the individual committing suicide have also invoked article 8 as the public interest of extraditing must be considered in light of the risk of suicide by the individual if extradited. In the case of \"Jason's v Latvia\" extradition was refused on these grounds, as the crime for which the individual was sought was not enough of a threat to public interest to outweigh the high risk of suicide which had been assessed to exist for the individual if extradited.\n\nConsideration of the right to a fair trial is particularly complex in extradition cases. Its complexity arises from the fact that while the court deciding whether to surrender the individual must uphold these rights this same court must also be satisfied that any trial undertaken by the requesting state after extradition is granted also respects these rights. Article 14 of the ICCPR provides a number of criteria for fair trial standards. These standards have been reflected in courts who have shown that subjective considerations should be made in determining whether such trials would be ‘unjust’ or ‘oppressive’ by taking into account factors such as the duration of time since the alleged offences occurred, health of the individual, prison conditions in the requesting state and likelihood of conviction among other considerations. Yet exactly how the standards provided for in ICCPR are incorporated or recognised by domestic courts and decision makers is still unclear although it seems that these standards can at a minimum be used to inform the notions of such decision makers. If it is found that fair trial standards will not be satisfied in the requesting country this may be a sufficient bar to extradition.\n\nArticle 6 of the ECHR also provides for fair trial standards, which must be observed by European countries when making an extradition request. This court in the \"Othman\" case, whom if extradited would face trial where evidence against him had been obtained by way of torture. This was held to be a violation of Article 6 ECHR as it presented a real risk of a ‘flagrant denial of justice’. The court in Othman stressed that in order for a breach of Article 6 to occur the trial in the requesting country must constitute a flagrant denial of justice, going beyond merely an unfair trial. Evidence obtained by way of torture has been sufficient to satisfy the threshold of a flagrant denial of justice in a number of case. This is in part because torture evidence threatens the “integrity of the trial process and the rule of law itself.”\n\nHuman rights as a bar to extradition can be invoked in relation to the treatment of the individual in the receiving country, including their trial and sentence as well as the effect on family of the individual if extradition is granted. The repressive nature and the limitations of freedoms imposed on an individual is part of the extradition process and is the reason for these exceptions and the importance that human rights are observed in the extradition process. Therefore, human rights protected by international and regional agreements may be the basis for denying extradition requests, but only as independent exceptions. While human rights concerns can add to the complexity of extradition cases it is positive as it adds to the legitimacy and institutionalisation of the extradition system.\n\nDetermining whether to allow extradition by the requested state is, among other considerations, a balancing exercise between the interests of the requesting state's pursuit of justice over the accused individuals, the requested state's interests in holding dominion over those presently in its territory, and the rights of the extraditable persons. Extradition raises human rights concerns in determining this balance in relation to the extraditable person. States make provision to recognise these rights both expressing in bilateral treaty agreements and also, potentially by way of state's obligations under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, of which the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights is particularly relevant to extradition. Although regional, the European Convention of Human Rights has also been invoked as a bar to extradition in a number of cases falling within its jurisdiction and decisions from the European Court of Human Rights have been a useful source of development in this area.\n\nA concept related to extradition that has significant implications in transnational criminal law is that of \"aut dedere aut judicare\". This maxim represents the principle that states must either surrender a criminal within their jurisdiction to a state that wishes to prosecute the criminal or prosecute the offender in its own courts. Many international agreements contain provisions for \"aut dedere aut judicare\". These include all four 1949 Geneva Conventions, the U.N. Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings, the U.N. Convention Against Corruption, the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft, the Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, the Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of an Armed Conflict, and the International Convention for the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid.\n\nSome contemporary scholars hold the opinion that \"aut dedere aut judicare\" is not an obligation under customary international law but rather “a specific conventional clause relating to specific crimes” and, accordingly, an obligation that only exists when a state has voluntarily assumed the obligation. Cherif Bassiouni, however, has posited that, at least with regard to international crimes, it is not only a rule of customary international law but a \"jus cogens\" principle. Professor Michael Kelly, citing Israeli and Austrian judicial decisions, has noted that “there is some supporting anecdotal evidence that judges within national systems are beginning to apply the doctrine on their own”.\n\nThe refusal of a country to extradite suspects or criminals to another may lead to international relations being strained. Often, the country to which extradition is refused will accuse the other country of refusing extradition for political reasons (regardless of whether or not this is justified). A case in point is that of Ira Einhorn, in which some US commentators pressured President Jacques Chirac of France, who does not intervene in legal cases, to permit extradition when the case was held up due to differences between French and American human rights law. Another long-standing example is Roman Polanski whose extradition was pursued by California for over 20 years. For a brief period he was placed under arrest in Switzerland, however subsequent legal appeals there prevented extradition.\n\nThe questions involved are often complex when the country from which suspects are to be extradited is a democratic country with a rule of law. Typically, in such countries, the final decision to extradite lies with the national executive (prime minister, president or equivalent). However, such countries typically allow extradition defendants recourse to the law, with multiple appeals. These may significantly slow down procedures. On the one hand, this may lead to unwarranted international difficulties, as the public, politicians and journalists from the requesting country will ask their executive to put pressure on the executive of the country from which extradition is to take place, while that executive may not in fact have the authority to deport the suspect or criminal on their own. On the other hand, certain delays, or the unwillingness of the local prosecution authorities to present a good extradition case before the court on behalf of the requesting state, may possibly result from the unwillingness of the country's executive to extradite.\n\nEven though the United States has an extradition treaty with Japan, most extraditions are not successful due to Japan’s domestic laws. In order for the United States to be successful, they must present their case for extradition to the Japanese authorities. However, certain evidence is barred from being in these proceedings such as the use of confessions, searches or electronic surveillance. In most cases involving international drug trafficking, this kind of evidence constitutes the bulk of evidence gathered in the investigation on a suspect for a drug-related charge. Therefore, this usually hinders the United States from moving forward with the extradition of a criminal.\n\nThere is at present controversy in the United Kingdom about the Extradition Act 2003, which dispenses with the need for a \"prima facie\" case for extradition. This came to a head over the extradition of the Natwest Three from the UK to the U.S., for their alleged fraudulent conduct related to Enron. Several British political leaders were heavily critical of the British government's handling of the issue.\n\nIn 2013, the United States submitted extradition requests to many nations for former National Security Agency employee Edward Snowden. It criticized Hong Kong for allowing him to leave despite an extradition request.\n\nIn some cases a state has abducted an alleged criminal from the territory of another state either after normal extradition procedures failed, or without attempting to use them. Notable cases are listed below:\n\n\"Extraordinary rendition\" is an extrajudicial procedure in which criminal suspects, generally suspected terrorists or supporters of terrorist organisations, are transferred from one country to another. The procedure differs from extradition as the purpose of the rendition is to extract information from suspects, while extradition is used to return fugitives so that they can stand trial or fulfill their sentence. The United States' Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) allegedly operates a global extraordinary rendition programme, which from 2001 to 2005 captured an estimated 150 people and transported them around the world.\n\nThe alleged US programme prompted several official investigations in Europe into alleged secret detentions and illegal international transfers involving Council of Europe member states. A June 2006 report from the Council of Europe estimated 100 people had been kidnapped by the CIA on EU territory (with the cooperation of Council of Europe members), and rendered to other countries, often after having transited through secret detention centres (\"black sites\") utillised by the CIA, some of which could be located in Europe. According to the separate European Parliament report of February 2007, the CIA has conducted 1,245 flights, many of them to destinations where suspects could face torture, in violation of article 3 of the United Nations Convention Against Torture. A large majority of the European Union Parliament endorsed the report's conclusion that many member states tolerated illegal actions by the CIA, and criticised such actions. Within days of his inauguration, President Obama signed an Executive Order opposing rendition torture and established a task force to provide recommendations about processes to prevent rendition torture.\n\n\nInternational:\n\nIndividuals:\n\n"}
{"id": "19166421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19166421", "title": "FitzPatrick 1932", "text": "FitzPatrick 1932\n\nFitzPatrick 1932 is an early paper in the field of bankruptcy prediction. In a series of three articles in the monthly \"The Certified Public Accountant\" in 1932, Paul J. FitzPatrick presented data for 20 matched pairs of firms and discussed accounting ratios as indicators of bankruptcy. It is historically significant as an early attempt in this field, and it is notable also for its publishing a data set, now in the public domain. Beaver (1968), an important paper in accounting research which employs statistical analysis to a similar matched sample, cites the paper.\n\nThe dataset includes 13 accounting ratios calculated for 40 firms for each of three years. However some fields are missing for some firm-year observations.\n\nFitzPatrick, Paul J., Ph.D. 1932. \"A Comparison of the Ratios of Successful Industrial Enterprises With Those of Failed Companies\". \"The Certified Public Accountant\"\nBeaver 1968. \"Journal of Accounting Research\". (In three issues: October, 1932, p. 598-605; November, 1932, p. 656-662; December, 1932, p. 727-731.\n"}
{"id": "524632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=524632", "title": "Forced confession", "text": "Forced confession\n\nA forced confession is a confession obtained from a suspect or a prisoner by means of torture (including enhanced interrogation techniques) or other forms of duress. Depending on the level of coercion used, a forced confession is not valid in revealing the truth. The person being interrogated may agree to the story presented to him or even make up falsehoods himself in order to satisfy the interrogator and discontinue his suffering.\n\nFor centuries the Latin phrase \"Confessio est regina probationum\" (In English: Confession is the Queen of evidence) justified the use of forced confession in the European legal system. When especially during the Middle Ages acquiring a confession was the most important thing during preparations before a trial, than the method used to get the confession seemed irrelevant, de facto sanctioning the use of torture to extract forced confession. \n\nBy the late 18th century, most scholars and lawyers thought of the forced confession not only as a relic of past times and morally wrong but also ineffective as the victim of torture may confess to anything just to ease their suffering.\n\nDevelopments in the 20th century, notably the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, greatly reduced the legal acceptance of forced confessions. However, for most of legal history they have been accepted in most of the world, and are still accepted in some jurisdictions.\n\nSince 2001, as part of its War on Terror the United States using the CIA operates a network of off shore prisons, called black sites, probably the most famous of which is Guantánamo Bay detention camp.\nState officials have admitted to the press and in court to be using various torture techniques (authorised by the District attorney) to interrogate suspects of terrorism, sometimes after forced disappearance or extraordinary rendition by the United States. \n\nWhen these systematic acts were made public by the international media, the European Union, United Nations, the international press and various human rights movements condemned their practice.\nThe US Supreme Court did not discontinue their usage and repeatedly ruled against hearing citizens that underwent forced confessions, even after they were found innocent, claiming that a trial would constitute a breach of national security.\n\nA famous case is that of Khalid El-Masri. He appealed several times aided by different international human rights movements and lawyers, yet the US Supreme Court retained its usage of forced confession techniques, and denied a hearing of the evidence.\n\nThe People's Republic of China systematically employed forced televised confession against Chinese dissidents and workers of various human rights group in an attempt to discredit, smear and suppress dissident voices and activism, as well as part of the state propaganda. These scripted confessions, obtained via systematic duress and torture, are broadcast on the state television. Notable victims includes Wang Yu, a female human rights lawyer, and Swedish citizen Peter Dahlin, an NGO worker and human rights activist.\n\n"}
{"id": "266204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266204", "title": "Generic trademark", "text": "Generic trademark\n\nA generic trademark, also known as a genericized trademark or proprietary eponym, is a trademark or brand name that, due to its popularity or significance, has become the generic name for, or synonymous with, a general class of product or service, usually against the intentions of the trademark's holder. The process of a product's name becoming genericized is known as genericide.\n\nA trademark is said to become \"genericized\" when it begins as a distinctive product identifier but changes in meaning to become generic. This typically happens when the products or services with which the trademark is associated have acquired substantial market dominance or mind share, such that the primary meaning of the genericized trademark becomes the product or service itself rather than an indication of source for the product or service. A trademark thus popularized has its legal protection at risk in some countries such as the United States and United Kingdom, as its intellectual property rights in the trademark may be lost and competitors enabled to use the genericized trademark to describe their similar products, unless the owner of an affected trademark works sufficiently to correct and prevent such broad use.\n\nThermos, Kleenex, ChapStick, Aspirin, Dumpster, Band-Aid, Velcro, Hoover, Jet Ski and Speedo are examples of trademarks that have become genericized in the US and elsewhere.\n\nGenericization or \"loss of secondary meaning\" may be either among the general population or among just a subpopulation, for example, people who work in a particular industry. Some examples of the latter type from the vocabulary of physicians include the names Luer-Lok (Luer lock), Phoroptor (phoropter), and Port-a-Cath (portacath), which have genericized mind share (among physicians) because (1) the users may not realize that the term is a brand name rather than a medical eponym or generic-etymology term, and (2) no alternative generic name for the idea readily comes to mind. Most often, genericization occurs because of heavy advertising that fails to provide an alternative generic name or that uses the trademark in similar fashion to generic terms. Thus, when the Otis Elevator Company advertised that it offered \"the latest in elevator and escalator design,\" it was using the well-known generic term \"elevator\" and Otis's trademark \"Escalator\" for moving staircases in the same way. The Trademark Office and the courts concluded that, if Otis used their trademark in that generic way, they could not stop Westinghouse from calling its moving staircases \"escalators\", and a valuable trademark was lost through \"genericization\".\n\nThe pharmaceutical industry affords some protection from genericization of trade names due to the modern practice of assigning a nonproprietary name for a drug based upon chemical structure. Brand-name drugs have well-known nonproprietary names from the beginning of their commercial existence, even while still under patent, preventing the aforementioned problem of \"no alternative generic name for the idea readily coming to mind\". For example, even when Abilify was new, its nonproprietary name, Aripiprazole, was well documented. Another example is Warfarin, which was known as an ingredient in rat poison before it was approved for human use under the brand name of Coumadin.\n\nExamples of genericization before the modern system of generic drugs include aspirin, introduced to the market in 1897, and heroin, introduced in 1898. Both were originally trademarks of Bayer AG. However, U.S. court rulings in 1918 and 1921 found the terms to be genericized, stating the company's failure to reinforce the brand's connection with their product as the reason. Bayer's involvement in the Great Phenol Plot during World War I, and subsequently the U.S. declaration of war on Germany, were also involved in the case of aspirin and heroin.\n\nA different sense of the word \"genericized\" in the pharmaceutical industry refers to products whose patent protection has expired. For example, Lipitor was genericized in the U.S. when the first competing generic version was approved by the FDA in November 2011. In this same context, the term \"genericization\" refers to the process of a brand drug losing market exclusivity to generics.\n\nTrademark erosion, or genericization, is a special case of antonomasia related to trademarks. It happens when a trademark becomes so common that it starts being used as a common name \"and\" the original company has failed to prevent such use. Once it has become an appellative, the word cannot be registered any more; this is why companies try hard not to let their trademark become too common, a phenomenon that could otherwise be considered a successful move since it would mean that the company gained an exceptional recognition.\n\nNintendo is an example of a brand that successfully fought trademark erosion, having managed to replace excessive use of its name by the then-neologism game console.\n\nWhether or not a mark is popularly identified as genericized, the owner of the mark may still be able to enforce the proprietary rights that attach to the use or registration of the mark, as long as the mark continues to exclusively identify the owner as the commercial origin of the applicable products or services. If the mark does not perform this essential function and it is no longer possible to legally enforce rights in relation to the mark, the mark may have become generic. In many legal systems (e.g., in the United States but not in Germany) a generic mark forms part of the public domain and can be commercially exploited by anyone. Nevertheless, there exists the possibility of a trademark becoming a revocable generic term in German (and European) trademark law.\n\nThe process by which trademark rights are diminished or lost as a result of common use in the marketplace is known as \"genericization\". This process typically occurs over a period of time in which a mark is not used as a trademark (i.e., where it is not used to exclusively identify the products or services of a particular business), where a mark falls into disuse entirely, or where the trademark owner does not enforce its rights through actions for passing off or trademark infringement.\n\nOne risk factor that may lead to genericization is the use of a trademark as a verb, plural or possessive, unless the mark itself is possessive or plural (e.g., \"Friendly's\" restaurants).\n\nHowever, in highly inflected languages, a tradename may have to carry case endings in usage. An example is Finnish, where \"\"Microsoftin\" is the genitive case and \"Facebookista\"\" is the elative case.\n\nGeneric use of a trademark presents an inherent risk to the effective enforcement of trademark rights and may ultimately lead to genericization.\n\nThe legal team of Velcro created a music video highlighting the tragedy of genericide.\n\nTrademark owners may take various steps to reduce the risk, including educating businesses and consumers on appropriate trademark use, avoiding use of their marks in a generic manner, and systematically and effectively enforcing their trademark rights. If a trademark is associated with a new invention, the trademark owner may also consider developing a generic term for the product to be used in descriptive contexts, to avoid inappropriate use of the \"house\" mark. Such a term is called a \"generic descriptor\", and is frequently used immediately after the trademark to provide a description of the product or service. For example, \"Kleenex tissues\" (\"facial tissues\" being the generic descriptor) or \"Velcro brand fasteners\" for Velcro brand name hook-and-loop fasteners.\n\nAnother common practice among trademark owners is to follow their trademark with the word \"brand\" to help define the word as a trademark. Johnson & Johnson changed the lyrics of their Band-Aid television commercial jingle from, \"I am stuck on Band-Aids, 'cause Band-Aid's stuck on me\" to \"I am stuck on Band-Aid \"brand\", 'cause Band-Aid's stuck on me.\" Google has gone to lengths to prevent this process, discouraging publications from using the term 'googling' in reference to Web searches. In 2006, both the Oxford English Dictionary and the Merriam Webster Collegiate Dictionary struck a balance between acknowledging widespread use of the verb coinage and preserving the particular search engine's association with the coinage, defining \"google\" (all lower case, with -\"le\" ending) as a verb meaning \"use the Google search engine to obtain information on the Internet\".\n\nWhere a trademark is used generically, a trademark owner may need to take aggressive measures to retain exclusive rights to the trademark. Xerox corporation attempted to prevent the genericization of its core trademark through an extensive public relations campaign advising consumers to \"photocopy\" instead of \"xerox\" documents.\n\nOne example of an active effort to prevent the genericization of a trademark was that of the Lego Company, which printed in manuals in the 1970s and 1980s a request to customers that they call the company's interlocking plastic building blocks \"'Lego bricks', 'blocks' or 'toys', and not 'Legos'.\" While this went largely unheeded, and many children and adults in the U.S. referred to and continue to refer to the pieces as \"Legos\", use of the deprecated term remained largely confined to the Lego Company's own products – and not, for example, to Tyco's competing and interchangeable product – so genericization of the Lego trademark did not occur.\n\nAdobe Systems is working to prevent the genericization of their trademarks, such as Photoshop, but has had mixed success. This is shown via recurring use of the verb \"photoshopped\", or the shortened version \"shopped\", throughout the Internet and mass media.\n\nSince 2003, the European Union has actively sought to restrict the use of geographical indications by third parties outside the EU by enforcing laws regarding \"protected designation of origin\". Although a geographical indication for specialty food or drink may be generic, it is not a trademark because it does not serve to identify exclusively a specific commercial enterprise and therefore cannot constitute a genericized trademark.\n\nThe extension of protection for geographical indications is somewhat controversial. A geographical indication may have been registered as a trademark elsewhere; for example, if \"Parma Ham\" was part of a trademark registered in Canada by a Canadian manufacturer, then ham manufacturers in Parma, Italy, might be unable to use this name in Canada. Wines (such as Bordeaux, Port and Champagne), cheeses (such as Roquefort, Parmesan, and Feta), Pisco liquor, and Scotch whisky are examples of geographical indications. Compare Russian use of \"Шампанское\" (= Shampanskoye) for champagne-type wine made in Russia.\n\nIn the 1990s, the Parma consortium successfully sued the Asda supermarket chain to prevent it using the description \"Parma ham\" on prosciutto produced in Parma but sliced outside the Parma region. The European Court ruled that pre-packaged ham must be produced, sliced, and packaged in Parma in order to be labeled for sale as \"Parma ham\".\n\nA trademark is said to fall somewhere along a scale from being \"distinctive\" to \"generic\" (used primarily as a common name for the product or service rather than an indication of source). Among distinctive trademarks the scale goes from strong to weak:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "743621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=743621", "title": "Ger toshav", "text": "Ger toshav\n\nGer toshav ( \"ger\" \"foreigner\" or \"alien\" + \"toshav\" \"resident\", lit. \"resident alien\")\nis a term in Judaism for a gentile (non-Jew) living in the Land of Israel who agrees to be bound by the Seven Laws of Noah,\na set of imperatives which, according to the Talmud, were given by God as a binding set of laws for the \"children of Noah\" – that is, all of humanity. A \"ger toshav\" is therefore commonly deemed a \"righteous gentile\" ( \"chassid umot ha-olam\" \"Pious People of the World\").\n\nA \"ger toshav\" is a gentile who accepts the authority of the Torah and the rabbis upon himself, but specifically as applied to gentiles. The term \"ger toshav\" may be used in a formal or informal sense.\n\nIn the formal sense, a \"ger toshav\" is a gentile who officially accepts the seven Noahide Laws as binding upon himself in the presence of a \"beth din\" (Jewish rabbinical court). In the Talmudic discussion regarding the \"ger toshav\", there are two other, differing minority opinions (\"Avodah Zarah\", 64b) as to what the \"ger toshav\" accepts upon himself:\n\nThe accepted legal definition is the majority opinion that the \"ger toshav\" must accept the seven Noahide Laws before a rabbinical court of three. Such a \"ger toshav\" receives certain legal protections and privileges from the community, the rules regarding Jewish-Gentile relations are modified, and there is a Biblical obligation to render him aid when in need. The restrictions on having a gentile do work for a Jew on the Sabbath are also stricter when the gentile is a \"ger toshav\".\n\nIn the informal sense, a \"ger toshav\" is one who accepts the Noahide Laws on his own, or alternatively, simply rejects idolatry. (the latter issue is in particular brought up regarding Muslims.) More formally, a gentile who accepts the Seven Mitzvot, although not before a \"beth din\", is known as \"chasid umot ha'olam\", which means \"Pious People of the World.\" There is discussion among the halakhic authorities as to which of the rules regarding a \"ger toshav\" would apply to the informal case.\n\nThe procedure has been discontinued since the cessation of the year of Jubilee, and hence, there are no formal \"gerim toshvim\" (plural) extant today. However, it can be argued that a great deal are \"informal\" ones, especially since it is possible to be a \"chasid umot ha'olam\" even when the Jubilee Year is not observed.\n\nJudaism encourages non-Jews to adhere to the Noahide Laws. Some groups, notably Chabad Lubavitch, have set up classes and networks for Gentiles who commit themselves to this legal system (see Noahide Campaign). The Lubavitcher Rebbe himself encouraged his followers on many occasions to teach the Seven Laws of Noah, devoting some of his addresses to the subtleties of this code.\n\nIn 2008, a new code of law, written by Rabbi Moshe Weiner specifically for Noahides, was published under the auspices of Ask Noah International. The book's stated intention is to serve as the first ever \"Shulchan Aruch for all the laws of the Children of Noah,\" and is entitled \"Sefer Sheva Mitzvot Hashem.\" To grant it authority, it bears letters of endorsement from Rabbi Zalman Nechemia Goldberg of the Supreme Rabbinical Court of Israel, both the Chief Rabbis of Israel, and letters of blessing and approbation from various other notable rabbis around the world. In the code itself, it states that \"at this time, while we do not accept \"geirim toshvim\" for the sake of (granting) the privileges of (the \"ger toshav\") [for example, to live in the Land of Israel], nevertheless, if he comes before (a rabbinical court of) three of his own free will to accept upon himself to be a \"ger toshav\" and one of the Pious People of the World, for the sake of accepting his mitzvot, we accept him.\" Later, it notes that one of the \"Pious People of the World\" (\"chasid umot ha'olam\") is not necessarily also a \"ger toshav\", and it is possible to be a \"chasid umot ha'olam\" despite not being a \"ger toshav\". In fact, it lists four possibilities for Gentiles:\nA Gentile is obligated to accept the Seven Mitzvot, but is not required to appear before a rabbinical court to become a \"ger toshav;\" that is a personal choice.\n\nAccording to Kellner (1991) on Maimonides, a \"ger toshav\" could be a transitional stage on the way to becoming a \"ger tzedek\" () or \"righteous alien\", a convert to Judaism. He conjectures that only a full \"ger tzedek\" would be found at the time of the Messiah.\n\nHowever, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneersohn states that the status of \"ger toshav\" will continue to exist, even in the Messianic era. This is based on the statement in Hilchot Melachim 12:5 that \"the entire world's (\"kol ha'olam\") occupation will be nothing but to know G‑d.\" In its plain meaning, he asserts, \"kol ha'olam\" also includes Gentiles. As proof, he cites 11:4, also dealing with the Messianic era, where the similar term \"ha'olam kulo\", \"the world in its entirety,\" clearly refers to Gentiles. Continuing the text in Hilchot Melachim 12:5, Maimonides explicitly changes the topic to Jews by using the term \"Yisra'el\", explaining that \"Therefore, the Jews will be great sages and know the hidden matters, grasping the knowledge of their Creator according to the full extent of human potential,\" indicating that Jew and Gentile will co-exist in the time of the Messiah.\n\nIn any case, even when there is a Jewish king and a Sanhedrin, and all the twelve tribes live in the Land of Israel, Jewish law does not permit forcing someone to convert and become a \"ger tzedek\" against his will.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23318120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23318120", "title": "Grant (law)", "text": "Grant (law)\n\nA grant, in law, is a transfer of property, generally from a person or other entity giving the property (the grantor) to a person or entity receiving the property (the grantee).\n\nHistorically, a grant was a transfer by deed of that which could not be passed by livery, an act evidenced by letters patent under the Great Seal, granting something from the king to a subject, and a technical term made use of in deeds of conveyance of lands to import a transfer.\n\nThough the word \"grant\" was originally made use of, in treating of conveyances of interests in lands, to denote a transfer by deed of that which could not be passed by livery, and was applied only to incorporeal hereditaments, it became a generic term, applicable to the transfer of all classes of real property.\n\nAs distinguished from a mere license, a grant passes some estate or interest, corporeal or incorporeal, in the lands which it embraces; can only he made by an instrument in writing, under seal; and is irrevocable, when made, unless an express power of revocation is reserved. A license is a mere authority; passes no estate or interest whatever; may be made by parol; is revocable at will; and, when revoked, the protection which it gave ceases to exist.\n\nIn legal conveyancing, the grant is the means by which a party conveys title or encumbrance. In trust law, the grant is the act by which the settlor creates the trust for the interests of the trustee. In an option contract, the right of the optionee to exercise the option is considered a grant on the part of the optionor. In philanthropy, a donor may provide a grant of money.\n\n"}
{"id": "211876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211876", "title": "Hong Kong trade mark law", "text": "Hong Kong trade mark law\n\nThe trade mark law of Hong Kong is based on the Trade Marks Ordinance Cap. 559, which came into force on 4 April 2003 and repealed the Trade Mark Ordinance Cap 43. The system established by this legislation is entirely separate to the system used in the People's Republic of China, pursuant to the \"one country-two systems\" policy. The superseded law and the current law share many similarities with the relevant legislation in the United Kingdom, a similarity which is also facilitated by TRIPs.\n\nThe new law introduced various substantive and procedural changes, such as expanding the legal definition of a trademark; including or broadening protection for certification marks, collective marks, and well-known trade marks; reducing the period of non-use for revocation purpose from five to three years; and simplifying and streamlining procedures for the registration of assignments, and \"registrable transactions\" such as licenses.\n\nRegistration of a trade mark in Hong Kong commences with the filing of an application at the Trade Mark Registry of the Hong Kong Intellectual Property Department. An application may cover one or more classes of products and/or services. The standard total cost for using the services of a trademark attorney to handle the filing of an application in one class is HK $4,300 (the professional component of this fee is recommended by the Hong Kong Law Society). The official filing fees levied by the Intellectual Property Department of Hong Kong are HK$2000 for the first class and an additional HK$1000 per additional class. There will be additional fees for other stages in the registration process.\n\nFirstly, the application is assessed by an examiner for deficiencies which go to formalities. The next stage is substantive examination, where the main grounds of objection could be raised: absolute grounds for refusal (e.g. where the mark is inherently not registerable), and relative grounds for refusal (e.g. where the mark is identical or similar to mark covered by an application or registration filed earlier in time).\n\nAfter the objections (if any) are overcome, the application will be accepted by the registry and published for opposition purposes for an extendable period of three months to allow third parties to object to registration of the mark on certain grounds.\n\nOnce any oppositions are resolved, a certificate of registration will be issued. The standard timeframe to registration for an application which encounters few if any problems or difficulties is 12 months.\n\nUpon registration, and subject to the discussion on revocation below, a trade mark is valid for an extendible period of 10 years.\n\nA registration for a trade mark may be subject to revocation by a third party if the trade mark has not been genuinely and continuously used for at least three years, and there are no valid reasons explaining the lack of use.\n\nThe old trade mark law (Cap. 43) divided the register of trade marks into two parts called \"Part A\" and \"Part B\", whereby the owners of distinctive marks could seek registration under Part A, while the owners of marks with some distinctive character could pursue registration under Part B. Part B registration meant that certain rights were not available to the trade mark owner, which were otherwise available to the owner of a Part A registration.\n\nUnder the new law, the division of the register was abolished, and one standard of registrability was introduced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "237536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237536", "title": "Information privacy", "text": "Information privacy\n\nInformation privacy, also known as data privacy or data protection, is the relationship between the collection and dissemination of data, technology, the public expectation of privacy, legal and political issues surrounding them.\n\nPrivacy concerns exist wherever personally identifiable information or other sensitive information is collected, stored, used, and finally destroyed or deleted – in digital form or otherwise. Improper or non-existent disclosure control can be the root cause for privacy issues. Data privacy issues may arise in response to information from a wide range of sources, such as:\n\nThe challenge of data privacy is to utilize data while protecting an individual's privacy preferences and their personally identifiable information. The fields of computer security, data security, and information security design and utilize software, hardware, and human resources to address this issue. Since the laws and regulations related to Privacy and Data Protection are constantly changing, it is important to keep abreast of any changes in the law and to continually reassess compliance with data privacy and security regulations. Within academia, Institutional Review Boards function to assure that adequate measures are taken to ensure both the privacy and confidentiality of human subjects in research.\n\nVarious types of personal information often come under privacy concerns.\n\nThe ability to control the information one reveals about oneself over the internet, and who can access that information, has become a growing concern. These concerns include whether email can be stored or read by third parties without consent, or whether third parties can continue to track the websites that someone has visited. Another concern is if the websites that are visited can collect, store, and possibly share personally identifiable information about users.\n\nThe advent of various search engines and the use of data mining created a capability for data about individuals to be collected and combined from a wide variety of sources very easily. The FTC has provided a set of guidelines that represent widely accepted concepts concerning fair information practices in an electronic marketplace called the Fair Information Practice Principles.\n\nIn order not to give away too much personal information, emails should be encrypted. Browsing of web pages as well as other online activities should be done trace-less via \"anonymizers\", in case those are not trusted, by open-source distributed anonymizers, so called mix nets, such as I2P or Tor – The Onion Router.\n\nEmail isn't the only internet content with privacy concerns. In an age where increasing amounts of information are going online, social networking sites pose additional privacy challenges. People may be tagged in photos or have valuable information exposed about themselves either by choice or unexpectedly by others. Caution should be exercised with what information is being posted, as social networks vary in what they allow users to make private and what remains publicly accessible. Without strong security settings in place and careful attention to what remains public, a person can be profiled by searching for and collecting disparate pieces of information, worst case leading to cases of cyberstalking or reputational damage.\n\nThis describes the ability to control what information one reveals about oneself over cable television, and who can access that information. For example, third parties can track IP TV programs someone has watched at any given time. \"The addition of any information in a broadcasting stream is not required for an audience rating survey, additional devices are not requested to be installed in the houses of viewers or listeners, and without the necessity of their cooperations, audience ratings can be automatically performed in real-time.\"\n\nPeople may not wish for their medical records to be revealed to others. This may be because they have concern that it might affect their insurance coverages or employment. Or, it may be because they would not wish for others to know about any medical or psychological conditions or treatments that would bring embarrassment upon themselves. Revealing medical data could also reveal other details about one's personal life. There are three major categories of medical privacy: informational (the degree of control over personal information), physical (the degree of physical inaccessibility to others), and psychological (the extent to which the doctor respects patients’ cultural beliefs, inner thoughts, values, feelings, and religious practices and allows them to make personal decisions).\nPhysicians and psychiatrists in many cultures and countries have standards for doctor-patient relationships, which include maintaining confidentiality. In some cases, the physician-patient privilege is legally protected. These practices are in place to protect the dignity of patients, and to ensure that patients will feel free to reveal complete and accurate information required for them to receive the correct treatment.\nTo view the United States' laws on governing privacy of private health information, see HIPAA and the HITECH Act.\n\nInformation about a person's financial transactions, including the amount of assets, positions held in stocks or funds, outstanding debts, and purchases can be sensitive. If criminals gain access to information such as a person's accounts or credit card numbers, that person could become the victim of fraud or identity theft. Information about a person's purchases can reveal a great deal about that person's history, such as places he/she has visited, whom he/she has contacted with, products he/she has used, his/her activities and habits, or medications he/she has used. In some cases, corporations may use this information to target individuals with marketing customized towards those individual's personal preferences, which that person may or may not approve.\n\nAs location tracking capabilities of mobile devices are advancing (location-based services), problems related to user privacy arise. Location data is among the most sensitive data currently being collected. A list of potentially sensitive professional and personal information that could be inferred about an individual knowing only his mobility trace was published recently by the Electronic Frontier Foundation. These include the movements of a competitor sales force, attendance of a particular church or an individual's presence in a motel, or at an abortion clinic. A recent MIT study by de Montjoye et al. showed that four spatio-temporal points, approximate places and times, are enough to uniquely identify 95% of 1.5 million people in a mobility database. The study further shows that these constraints hold even when the resolution of the dataset is low. Therefore, even coarse or blurred datasets provide little anonymity.\n\nPolitical privacy has been a concern since voting systems emerged in ancient times. The secret ballot is the simplest and most widespread measure to ensure that political views are not known to anyone other than the voters themselves—it is nearly universal in modern democracy, and considered to be a basic right of citizenship. In fact, even where other rights of privacy do not exist, this type of privacy very often does.\n\nIn the United Kingdom in 2012, the Education Secretary Michael Gove described the National Pupil Database as a \"rich dataset\" whose value could be \"maximised\" by making it more openly accessible, including to private companies. Kelly Fiveash of \"The Register\" said that this could mean \"a child's school life including exam results, attendance, teacher assessments and even characteristics\" could be available, with third-party organizations being responsible for anonymizing any publications themselves, rather than the data being anonymized by the government before being handed over. An example of a data request that Gove indicated had been rejected in the past, but might be possible under an improved version of privacy regulations, was for \"analysis on sexual exploitation\".\n\nThe legal protection of the right to privacy in general – and of data privacy in particular – varies greatly around the world.\n\nThe United States Department of Commerce created the International Safe Harbor Privacy Principles certification program in response to the 1995 Directive on Data Protection (Directive 95/46/EC) of the European Commission. Directive 95/46/EC declares in Chapter IV Article 25 that personal data may only be transferred from the countries in the European Economic Area to countries which provide adequate privacy protection. Historically, establishing adequacy required the creation of national laws broadly equivalent to those implemented by Directive 95/46/EU. Although there are exceptions to this blanket prohibition – for example where the disclosure to a country outside the EEA is made with the consent of the relevant individual (Article 26(1)(a)) – they are limited in practical scope. As a result, Article 25 created a legal risk to organisations which transfer personal data from Europe to the United States.\n\nThe program regulates the exchange of passenger name record information between the EU and the US. According to the EU directive, personal data may only be transferred to third countries if that country provides an adequate level of protection. Some exceptions to this rule are provided, for instance when the controller himself can guarantee that the recipient will comply with the data protection rules.\n\nThe European Commission has set up the \"Working party on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal Data,\" commonly known as the \"Article 29 Working Party\". The Working Party gives advice about the level of protection in the European Union and third countries.\n\nThe Working Party negotiated with U.S. representatives about the protection of personal data, the Safe Harbor Principles were the result. Notwithstanding that approval, the self-assessment approach of the Safe Harbor remains controversial with a number of European privacy regulators and commentators.\n\nThe Safe Harbor program addresses this issue in the following way: rather than a blanket law imposed on all organisations in the United States, a voluntary program is enforced by the FTC. U.S. organisations which register with this program, having self-assessed their compliance with a number of standards, are \"deemed adequate\" for the purposes of Article 25. Personal information can be sent to such organisations from the EEA without the sender being in breach of Article 25 or its EU national equivalents. The Safe Harbor was approved as providing adequate protection for personal data, for the purposes of Article 25(6), by the European Commission on 26 July 2000.\n\nUnder the Safe Harbor, adoptee organisations need to carefully consider their compliance with the \"onward transfer obligations\", where personal data originating in the EU is transferred to the US Safe Harbor, and then onward to a third country. The alternative compliance approach of \"binding corporate rules\", recommended by many EU privacy regulators, resolves this issue. In addition, any dispute arising in relation to the transfer of HR data to the US Safe Harbor must be heard by a panel of EU privacy regulators.\n\nIn July 2007, a new, controversial, Passenger Name Record agreement between the US and the EU was made. A short time afterwards, the Bush administration gave exemption for the Department of Homeland Security, for the Arrival and Departure Information System (ADIS) and for the Automated Target System from the 1974 Privacy Act.\n\nIn February 2008, Jonathan Faull, the head of the EU's Commission of Home Affairs, complained about the US bilateral policy concerning PNR. The US had signed in February 2008 a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Czech Republic in exchange of a visa waiver scheme, without concerting before with Brussels. The tensions between Washington and Brussels are mainly caused by a lesser level of data protection in the US, especially since foreigners do not benefit from the US Privacy Act of 1974. Other countries approached for bilateral MOU included the United Kingdom, Estonia, Germany and Greece.\n\nAs heterogeneous information systems with differing privacy rules are interconnected and information is shared, policy appliances will be required to reconcile, enforce, and monitor an increasing amount of privacy policy rules (and laws). There are two categories of technology to address privacy protection in commercial IT systems: communication and enforcement.\n\n\n\nOn the internet many users give away a lot of information about themselves: unencrypted e-mails can be read by the administrators of an e-mail server, if the connection is not encrypted (no HTTPS), and also the internet service provider and other parties sniffing the network traffic of that connection are able to know the contents.\nThe same applies to any kind of traffic generated on the Internet, including web browsing, instant messaging, and others.\nIn order not to give away too much personal information, e-mails can be encrypted and browsing of webpages as well as other online activities can be done traceless via anonymizers, or by open source distributed anonymizers, so-called mix networks.\nWell known open-source mix nets include I2P – The Anonymous Network and Tor.\n\nComputer privacy can be improved through individualization. Currently security messages are designed for the \"average user\", i.e. the same message for everyone. Researchers have posited that individualized messages and security \"nudges\", crafted based on users' individual differences and personality traits, can be used for further improvements for each person's compliance with computer security and privacy.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20307692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20307692", "title": "John Macdonell (judge)", "text": "John Macdonell (judge)\n\nSir John Macdonell KCB, FBA (1 August 1846 – 17 March 1921) was a British jurist. He was King's Remembrancer (1912–1920) and ainvested as a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath. Shaw of Dunfermline gives a prefatory biography in \"Historical Trials\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58792", "title": "Judicial discretion", "text": "Judicial discretion\n\nJudicial discretion is the power of the judiciary to make some legal decisions according to their discretion. Under the doctrine of the separation of powers, the ability of judges to exercise discretion is an aspect of judicial independence. Where appropriate, judicial discretion allows a judge to decide a legal case or matter within a range of possible decisions.\n\nHowever, where the exercise of discretion goes beyond constraints set down by legislation, by binding precedent, or by a constitution, the court may be abusing its discretion and undermining the rule of law. In that case, the decision of the court may be \"ultra vires\", and may sometimes be characterized as judicial activism.\n\nIn 1824, US Chief Justice John Marshall wrote the following on this subject:\n\nJudicial power, as contradistinguished from the power of the laws, has no existence. Courts are the mere instruments of the law, and can will nothing. When they are said to exercise a discretion, it is a mere legal discretion, a discretion to be exercised in discerning the course prescribed by law; and, when that is discerned, it is the duty of the court to follow it. Judicial power is never exercised for the purpose of giving effect to the will of the judge, always for the purpose of giving effect to the will of the legislature; or, in other words, to the will of the law.\n\nConcerns with regard to recidivism and other law and order issues have led to the introduction of mandatory sentencing. E.g. three-strikes laws and most sex offender registry laws in US are examples of laws carrying severe consequences, and which does not leave room for sentencing judges to consider the actual gravity of the offense, thus significantly limiting judicial discretion in sentencing. Introduction of mandatory minimum in criminal sentencing is often viewed as a shift of judicial power from judges to prosecutors, who are capable of affecting the length of potential sentence through their charging decision, e.g. filing charges on lesser included offense and dropping the charges carrying mandatory minimum sentences. Mandatory sentencing laws have been particularly popular among legislators in the United States. This has provoked formation of non-profit organizations such as Families Against Mandatory Minimums, Women Against Registry and RSOL to lobby for reinstatement of judicial discretion in criminal sentencing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25447274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25447274", "title": "LEED Professional Exams", "text": "LEED Professional Exams\n\nThe LEED Professional Exams are administered by the Green Business Certification Inc. (GBCI) for professionals seeking to earn credentials and certificates. The exams test knowledge based on the U.S. Green Building Council's Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Rating Systems.\n\nThe LEED Professional Credentials were developed to encourage green building professionals to maintain and advance their knowledge and expertise. A LEED Professional Credential provides employers, policymakers, and other stakeholders with assurances of an individual’s current level of competence and is the mark of the most qualified, educated, and influential green building professionals in the marketplace. All LEED Professional Credentials require adherence to the LEED Professional Disciplinary and Exam Appeals Policy and require ongoing credential maintenance requirements either through continuing education and practical experience or through biennial retesting. Starting in 2009, newly credentialed individuals must maintain their credential on a two-year cycles; if not, they expire. There are three tiers in the LEED Professional Credentialing program:\nAdditionally, the LEED AP exam was offered from 2001 to June 30, 2009. This credential has been grandfathered in, does not require credential maintenance, and does not expire.\n\nFor professionals who want to demonstrate green building expertise in non-technical fields of practice, GBCI has created the LEED Green Associate credential, which denotes basic knowledge of green design, construction, and operations.\n\nThe eligibility requirements for the LEED Green Associate exam no longer require candidates to have experience in the form of EITHER documented involvement on a LEED-registered project OR employment (or previous employment) in a sustainable field of work OR engagement in (or completion of) an education program that addresses green building principles. Candidates are still required to agree to the Disciplinary and Exam Appeals Policy and Credential Maintenance Program and submit to an application audit.\n\nThe LEED Green Associate exam consists of 100 randomly delivered questions which must be completed in 2 hours. The content of the exam focuses on the LEED project process (including integrated design), core sustainability concepts, green building terminology, and various aspects of the LEED rating systems.\n\nThe fees associated with the LEED Green Associate are a $50 application fee, a $200 exam fee (per exam appointment) for USGBC national members and full-time students or $250 exam fee (per exam appointment) for all others, and a $85 biennial CMP renewal fee.\n\nThe LEED AP (Accredited Professional) credential signifies an advanced depth of knowledge in green building practices; it also reflects the ability to specialize in a particular LEED Rating System. The LEED AP exam is divided into two parts. The first part is the LEED Green Associate exam, which demonstrates general knowledge of green building practices. The second part is a specialty exam based on one of the LEED Reference Guides.\n\nThe specialties are:\n\nThe eligibility requirements for the LEED AP exams are to have documented professional experience on a LEED project, within the last 3 years, with verification through LEED Online or employer attestation. Candidates are also required to agree to the Disciplinary and Exam Appeals Policy and Credential Maintenance Program and submit to an application audit.\n\nThe LEED AP exams consist of two parts, the LEED Green Associate exam and the applicable LEED AP specialty exam; each part contains 100 randomly delivered multiple choice questions and each part must be completed in 2 hours. Individuals must score at least 170 out of 200 in order to pass. While the LEED Green Associate focuses on concepts and terminology, the LEED AP with Specialty exam tests a candidate's in-depth understanding of one of the five main rating system categories. Candidates have to memorize performance thresholds (percentages of energy savings for example) and perform calculations during the exam.\n\nThe fees associated with the LEED AP exams are a $100 application fee and either a $300 exam fee (per exam appointment) for USGBC national members or a $450 exam fee (per exam appointment) for non-members. For existing LEED Green Associates that wish to take the specialty exam only, there is either a $150 exam fee (per exam appointment) for USGBC national members or a $250 exam fee (per exam appointment) for non-members. There is also a $85 biennial CMP renewal fee. \n\nLEED Fellows are a highly accomplished class of individuals nominated by their peers and distinguished by a minimum of 10 or more years of professional green building experience. LEED Fellows must also have achieved a LEED AP with specialty credential. \n\nThere are currently two LEED Professional Certificates:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21375415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21375415", "title": "Lawyers for Children", "text": "Lawyers for Children\n\nLawyers For Children (LFC) was created in 1984 with the mission to advocate on behalf of children in foster care in New York City. LFC also advocates for immigration rights, mental health services, and victims of child sexual abuse, in addition to providing evaluations and education.\n\nLawyers For Children has represented more than 40,000 foster, adopted, and abused children and young adults. Lawyers For Children participated in the case \"Nicholson v. Williams\", a class action suit \"that forced the NYC Administration for Children’s Services to do case-by-case evaluations to determine if removal is necessary rather than automatic if a parent is a victim of domestic violence.\" LFC has been recognized for its best-practices advocacy model in which attorneys are paired with social workers to represent each and every LFC client. \n\nIn 2008, the organization received the American Bar Association's Hodson Award for \"sustained, outstanding performance or a specific and extraordinary service by a government or public sector law office\".\n"}
{"id": "3210958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3210958", "title": "Lex loci solutionis", "text": "Lex loci solutionis\n\nLex loci solutionis (Latin: \"law of the place of performance\"), in conflict of laws, is the law applied in the place of an event.\n\nIf a case comes before a court and all the main features of the case are local, the court will then apply the \"lex fori\", the prevailing municipal law, to decide the case. If there are foreign elements to the case, the forum court may then be obliged under the conflict of laws system to consider whether the forum court has jurisdiction to hear the case (see forum shopping).\n\nIt then characterises the issues and allocate the factual basis of the case to its relevant legal classes. It then applies choice of law rules to decide the law to be applied to each class.\n\n\"Lex loci solutionis\" is one of the possible choice of law rules applied to cases that test the validity of a contract or that deal with a tort. For example, if a person domiciled in Bolivia and a person habitually resident in Germany make a contract by e-mail and agree to meet in Arizona to research a book, there would be several possibly-relevant choice of law rules:\n\n"}
{"id": "5681037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5681037", "title": "Liberty City Seven", "text": "Liberty City Seven\n\nThe Liberty City Seven were seven members of a small Miami, Florida-based religious group who called themselves the Universal Divine Saviors. Described as a \"bizarre cult,\" the seven were arrested and charged with terrorism-related offenses in 2006 after a Federal Bureau of Investigation sting investigation. The members of the group operated out of a small warehouse in the Miami neighborhood of Liberty City.\n\nIndicted in federal court, three trials of the Liberty City Seven defendants took place. One defendant was acquitted in the first trial, but the jury deadlocked on the other six defendants and a mistrial occurred. The second trial also resulted in a deadlocked jury and a mistrial. On the third trial of the remaining six defendants, five were convicted on some of the counts, including the group's leader, Narseal Batiste, the only defendant to be convicted on all four charges. One more defendant was acquitted of all charges in the third trial.\n\nThe charges centered on the group's belief that they were being offered money by someone in Yemen to help their mission in Liberty City, provided they supported the al-Qaeda jihad. The FBI agents represented themselves as representatives of al-Qaeda, and persuaded Batiste to provide plans for a stated intention to destroy the Sears Tower in Chicago, the FBI field office in Miami, and other targets. Deputy Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation John S. Pistole described the group's plot as more \"aspirational than operational\"; the group did not have the means to carry out attacks on such targets. The group had no weapons and did not seek weapons when they were offered. The group had no communication with any actual al-Qaeda or other terrorist operatives.\n\nThe groups held idiosyncratic syncretic views. Juan Cole wrote that:\n\nFollowers wore uniforms bearing a Star of David and met for Bible study and martial arts practice.\n\nAttorney General Alberto R. Gonzales said in 2006 that the men had been taped promising to fight a \"full ground war against the United States.\" The seven were arrested on June 23, 2006.\n\nOn June 22, 2006, a grand jury indicted the seven men. They were arrested during an FBI raid on the run-down warehouse in Liberty City, Miami in which the group met.\n\nThe seven men named in the indictment: \n\nFive were U.S. citizens, one a legal immigrant from Haiti, and the last an illegal alien originally from Haiti. They were accused of planning to levy a \"full ground war\" against the United States.\n\nAlso involved was Charles James Stewart of the Moorish Science Temple in Chicago, a convicted rapist who was paid through the FBI informant to join the group in April. He subsequently shot one of Batiste's followers and then became a witness against him and his supporters.\n\nThe two FBI informants, both Middle Eastern-born, were known as CW1, a Miami resident who had previous arrests for assault and marijuana possession, and CW2, who had worked for the FBI for six years and was awaiting approval of his petition for political asylum in the United States.\n\nNarseal Batiste (also known by some as \"Prinze Nas\"), 32, is a father of four and a martial arts enthusiast, who had been a member of the Guardian Angels in Chicago.\n\nThe indictments accused the seven of being a domestic terrorist cell who plotted to blow up the Sears Tower and the FBI building in Miami and had contact with al-Qaeda to attempt a bombing of Sears Tower. Although no links to outside terrorist groups were alleged, nor any weapons found, the arrests were the subject of a high level press briefing in Washington D.C. hosted by the Attorney-General and made headline news in Europe the following day. The Director of the FBI Robert Mueller cited the incident in a \"Major Executive Speech\" in Cleveland that afternoon entitled \"Protecting America from Terrorist Attack: The Threat of Homegrown Terrorism\".\n\nAccording to the indictments, the group had been infiltrated for nearly a year by two paid FBI informants posing as al-Qaeda members. The warehouse they were in had been wired for surveillance and provided rent-free by the FBI since January, and members of the group discussed the terrorist plots with the undercover agents present while smoking marijuana. Differences had broken out in April between the leaders, causing one to be arrested for shooting a follower of the other.\n\nAll seven were denied bail since their arrest. Their trial began on 2 October 2007 with the threat of up to 70 years in prison if convicted of all charges, and ended on 13 December with one defendant acquitted and the jury unable to return a verdict on the other six, for whom a retrial was scheduled for 7 January 2008. On April 16, 2008, the federal judge in the case declared a second mistrial for the six remaining defendants after the jury had been deadlocked for 13 days.\n\nThe presiding judge for all three trials was Joan A. Lenard.\n\nThe first trial began on October 2, 2007 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida. Prosecutors presented evidence drawn from 15,000 FBI recordings, including one in which Narseal Batiste said they would make sure no one survived destruction of the 110-story Sears Tower, and another which features ceremony in which each member of the group swears allegiance to al-Qaeda and Osama bin Laden. The defense claimed that the men played along with the talk by the FBI informants of terrorist plots in the hope of obtaining money, and that they never constituted a credible terrorist threat. In the second week of the trial two of the jurors were dismissed after a police counter-terrorism pamphlet was found in the jury room.\n\nThe defense rested its case on November 20, 2007. The prosecution alleging that although the defendants did not have the means to carry out a terrorist attack, they \"were a ready-made terrorist cell here for al-Qaeda\" who sought to use their attacks on the Sears Tower to spark an insurrection, topple the government, and bring about the destruction of the United States. The first trial ended on December 13, 2007. Lyglenson Lemorin was acquitted of all charges, and on the other six the jury deadlocked, leading to a mistrial. The defense argument was that the men were playing along with the FBI agents in order to con for money.\n\nOn December 13, 2007, after nine days of deliberations, the jury acquitted Lyglenson Lemorin, who had left the group and moved to Atlanta months before the arrests but were unable to reach a verdict on the other six. The judge declared a mistrial, and the jury for a retrial was scheduled to be picked after 7 January 2008. Lemorin was acquitted of these charges. Although Lemorin was acquitted in December 2007 and had never been convicted of a crime, he continued to be detained pending a deportation proceeding in which the same charges were reexamined. Deportation is considered a civil proceeding, where double jeopardy protections do not apply and a lower standard of clear and convincing evidence is used rather than reasonable doubt. After being jailed as a threat to national security for three years in Georgia, Florida, and Louisiana by immigration authorities, he was deported to Haiti on January 20, 2011 while his appeal to an Atlanta federal court was pending. The following April, Lemorin was not permitted to return for the funeral of the 15-year-old son he had fathered in the United States, who remained in the U.S. and was struck while trying to push a stalled vehicle off the highway.\n\nA second trial ended on April 16, 2008, when Lenard declared a mistrial after the second jury reported they were deadlocked after 13 days of deliberations.\n\nA third trial ended on May 12, 2009, when following two weeks of deliberation a jury acquitted Naudimar Herrera, but convicted the five remaining defendants. During the deliberations two of the jurors were replaced. Ringleader Batiste was convicted on all four charges brought against him. Abraham was convicted on three of the four counts against him. Phanor, Augustine, and Augustin were convicted two counts of providing material support for terrorism.\n\nThe five were sentenced on November 20, 2009 by Judge Joan Lenard after a three-day sentencing hearing:\n\nBatiste was the leader of the group. He is married and he and his wife Minerva have three boys and a girl\n. Batiste's relatives described him as a \"Moses-like\" figure who roamed his neighborhood wearing a robe and carrying a crooked wooden cane as he recruited young men, based his teachings on those of the Moorish Science Temple of America.\n\nBatiste once drove a FedEx truck in Chicago and was a member of the volunteer Guardian Angels, an anti-crime group. His father, Narcisse Batiste, sister and two of his brothers are Christian ministers. His mother Audrey Batiste died in 2000.\n\nAccording to the indictment, Batiste told an FBI informant posing as an al-Qaeda member around December 16, 2005 that he was organizing a mission to build an \"Islamic Army\" in order to wage jihad against the United States with his \"soldiers\" to destroy the Sears Tower. He requested a list of materials and equipment needed to wage jihad, including boots, uniforms, machine guns, radios, and vehicles.\n\nAround December 22, 2005, he provided said \"al-Qaeda representative\" with shoe sizes of his \"soldiers\" and received military boots a week later. Around that same time he requested radios, binoculars, bulletproof vests, vehicles and $50,000 cash.\n\nOn February 19, 2006, in a meeting with the \"al-Qaeda representative,\" along with Patrick Abraham, he expressed interest in attending al-Qaeda training during April and gave further details of the mission to wage \"a full ground war\" against the United States in order to \"kill all the devils we can\" in a mission that would \"be just as good or greater than 9/11.\" He requested a video camera for the trip to Chicago.\n\nAround March 10, 2006 he along with Lyglenson Lemorin met with the FBI plant in Miami-Dade County, Florida and swore fealty to al-Qaeda. Around March 16, 2006, along with Patrick Abraham, Stanley Phanor, Naudimar Herrera, Burson Augustin, Lyglenson Lemorin, and Rotschild Augustine, Batiste met with the \"al-Qaeda representative,\" swore an oath of loyalty to al-Qaeda and discussed plans to bomb the FBI building in five cities. At this meeting, Batiste took possession of a video camera and promised to obtain \"good footage\" of the North Miami Beach FBI building.\n\nAround March 23, 2006, Batiste asked the FBI informant for a rental van for himself and his conspirators to take reconnaissance footage of the FBI building. Around March 24, 2006, Patrick Abraham drove Batiste by car by the FBI and the National Guard Armory buildings in Miami-Dade, Florida. Around the same date, they traveled with the \"al-Qaeda representative\" to purchase a digital camera. Around March 26, 2006, Batiste and Burson Augustin provided the FBI informant with photographs and video footage of the FBI building and the James Lawrence King Federal Justice Building, federal courthouse, Federal Detention Center, and the Miami Police Department buildings. They met again around April 6 to discuss the photographs and footage.\n\nAround May 24, 2006, Batiste told the \"al-Qaeda representative\" that he was experiencing delays because of various problems within his organization but that he wanted to continue his mission and maintain his relationship with al-Qaeda.\n\nThe arrests were announced on 23 June at a high level press briefing in Washington D.C. by the Attorney-General Alberto Gonzales, the Deputy Director of the FBI John S. Pistole, and an Assistant Attorney-General Alice S. Fisher.\n\nAt the press conference, the Attorney-General and the Deputy Director took questions from reporters:\n\nHe assured the public that the men posed no actual danger because their plot had been caught in \"its earliest stages\", and that the group's only source of money and weapons would have been the undercover FBI agent.\n\nThe following week the incident was featured on The Daily Show, where Jon Stewart quipped: \"Now, I am not a general. I don't have any association with any military academy. But I believe that if you are going to wage a full ground war against the United States, you need to field at least as many people as, say, a softball team.\"\n\nDemocracy Now interviewed two community activists in Miami on 26 June who summed up local reaction to the indictments:\n\nIn his afternoon speech, the Director of the FBI, Robert Mueller, cited the case to illustrate how his department's policies were working. He also made reference to the case of Kevin James, the Toledo terror plot, and the 2006 Toronto terrorism case.\n\n\nThe trial information revised these figures\n\n"}
{"id": "8521315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8521315", "title": "Miner's licence", "text": "Miner's licence\n\nThe miner's licence or sandstormer's licence was the colonial government's response to the need to provide infrastructure including policing during the Australian gold rushes. The first Australian mining laws were enacted in 1851. A proclamation by Governor La Trobe, of New South Wales, on 22 May 1851 asserted the Crown's right to all gold discovered in New South Wales. Governor Fitzroy invoked the \"Case of Mines\" (\"R v Earl of Northumberland\") of 1567, which confirmed the Crown's prerogative right to all gold and silver found in the Crown's realm. Victoria separated from New South Wales on 1 July 1851, and the Victorian Lieutenant-Governor Charles La Trobe issued a similar proclamation on 16 August 1851. In January 1852, Victoria enacted the Mining Act 1852 (repealed) supplemented by the Mining Act 1853 (repealed). Before that, ownership of minerals and petroleum passed to those who were granted title to land by the colonial governors according to common law concepts, except the right to \"Royal Mines\" (the precious metals of gold and silver) which remained vested in the Crown by virtue of royal prerogative.\n\nUnder the new regime, no man could dig for gold unless he had bought a licence. Initially, the fee for the licence was 30 shillings per month, an amount believed to be high enough to discourage unlucky diggers but not so high as to encourage rebellion. The fee was later reduced to 1 pound a month, or 8 pounds a year. The licence entitled the miner to 3.6 square metres (approx 38.75 sq feet, i.e., 6 feet square) of land, and the fee had to be paid regardless of whether or not gold had been found.\n\nThere had been protests against the miner's licence from its inception. The miners' grievance led to the formation of the Anti-Gold Licence Association in 1853, which resolved that miners pay no more than 10 shillings in licence fees and, if this reduction was refused, to pay no more fees.\n\nOn 30 August 1853, Lieutenant-Governor La Trobe announced the abolition of the licence system to be substituted by an export duty and a small registration fee. However, the Victorian Legislative Council rejected La Trobe's proposal, so his promise was not enacted and the licence system continued.\n\nIn September 1853, only 400 of the 14,000 miners renewed their licences. The continued grievances led to outright rebellion known as the Eureka Stockade in Victoria, Australia, in 1854. As a result of the Eureka Stockade, a Miner's Right was introduced in Victoria to replace the licence.\n"}
{"id": "57837134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57837134", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Sint Maarten)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Sint Maarten)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of Sint Maarten oversees public safety, law and order, and the upholding of justice in Sint Maarten. The ministry is responsible for the following agencies:\n\n\nAlso, the following organizations fall within the justice sector and report to the Minister of Justice:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4639368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4639368", "title": "Minnesota Law Review", "text": "Minnesota Law Review\n\nThe Minnesota Law Review is a law review published by students at University of Minnesota Law School. The journal is published six times a year in November, December, February, April, May, and June. It was established by Henry J. Fletcher and William Reynolds Vance in 1917. \nThe \"Minnesota Law Review\"'s alumni include William C. Canby, Jr., Frank Claybourne, Donald M. Fraser, Orville Freeman, Bill Luther, George MacKinnon, Walter Mondale, Diana E. Murphy, William Prosser, Ernest Gellhorn, Richard Maxwell, John Sargent Pillsbury, Jr., Maynard Pirsig, Daniel D. Polsby, Robert Kingsley, and Harold Stassen. Other alumni include judges Donald D. Alsop, David S. Doty, Richard H. Kyle, and John R. Tunheim, all of the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota; Phil Carruthers, former speaker of the Minnesota House of Representatives; former New Hampshire Governor Charles M. Dale; and Robert Stein, former executive director of the American Bar Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "24736933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24736933", "title": "Otto Kirchheimer", "text": "Otto Kirchheimer\n\nOtto Kirchheimer (; 11 November 1905, Heilbronn – 22 November 1965, New York City) was a German jurist of Jewish ancestry and political scientist of the Frankfurt School whose work essentially covered the state and its constitution.\n\nKirchheimer worked as a research analyst at the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), the forerunner of the CIA, starting in World War II and continuing to 1952.\n\nHe is father of the concept of a \"catch-all party (\"Allerweltspartei\")\". Otto Kirchheimer's conception of the catch-all party was part of his more comprehensive theory of party transformation, encompassing four interrelated political processes. By tracing the development of the catch-all thesis and placing it within the wider context of Kirchheimer's complete work, it is possible to reconstruct a more precise understanding of what Kirchheimer meant by the catch-all concept, which itself remains highly contested. Kirchheimer's anxiety about modern democracy originated with what he saw as the vanishing of principled opposition within parliament and society, and the reduction of politics to the mere management of the state. This leads to collusion of political parties and the state, severing of the societal links of party organisations, and erosion of the classic separation of powers. Vanishing opposition, cartelisation and professionalisation of politics pits citizens against a powerful state, which increases political cynicism and apathy. Kirchheimer's comprehensive approach remains relevant to much of the contemporary debate about the transformation of Western political systems.\n\nThe German Research Fund (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, DFG) is funding the research and editorial work for an edition in five volumes of the \"Gesammelte Schriften\" (Collected Writings) of Otto Kirchheimer. The project began in late 2015 at Greifswald University and is scheduled to take about three years.\n\n"}
{"id": "381067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381067", "title": "Permanent normal trade relations", "text": "Permanent normal trade relations\n\nThe status of permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) is a legal designation in the United States for free trade with a foreign nation. In the United States, the name was changed from most favored nation (MFN) to PNTR in 1998.\n\nIn international trade, MFN status (or treatment) is awarded by one nation to another. It means that the receiving nation will be granted all trade advantages, such as low tariffs, that any other nation also receives. Thus, a nation with MFN status will not be discriminated against and will not be treated worse than any other nation with MFN status.\n\nGranting of permanent normal trade relations status is automatic, except where specifically denied by law.\n\nThe following countries are specifically denied NTR status, as of 2005:\n\nThe following countries are temporarily afforded NTR treatment by presidential waiver in accordance with the Jackson–Vanik amendment, as of 2005:\n\nThe following countries are temporarily afforded NTR treatment by a presidential compliance determination, in accordance with the Jackson–Vanik amendment, as of 2005:\n\nEmbargoes also apply to additional parties; see United States embargoes.\n\nIn 1948 the United States joined the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the predecessor organization of the World Trade Organization. In accordance with GATT provisions the United States agreed to extend what was then called Most Favored-Nation status (MFN) to all GATT member countries. This status was also applied to some countries that were not GATT members. However, a member may opt out of its obligations by invoking the non-application provision (Article XIII of the WTO or Article XXXV of the GATT) if it determines it cannot extend GATT/WTO principles to newly acceding members for political reasons. In 1951, the U.S. Congress directed President Harry Truman to revoke MFN status to the Soviet Union and other Communist countries except for Yugoslavia. During the Cold War, most Communist countries were denied MFN status if they did not meet certain conditions. Poland was granted MFN status in December 1960 by President Eisenhower. In 1962, Congress enacted a directive that jeopardized the MFN status of Poland and Yugoslavia; however, the directive was delayed until a new one was passed that allowed any countries with MFN to keep the status if the President determined it to be in the national interest of the United States.\n\nTitle IV of the Trade Act of 1974 superseded these provision. Section 401 of Title IV requires the President to withhold MFN status from countries that had not acquired that status by the time of the law’s enactment on January 3, 1975. In effect, this meant all communist countries, except Poland and Yugoslavia. Section 402, the Jackson-Vanik amendment, withholds MFN status from countries with strict restriction on freedom of emigration. Countries that wish to have PNTR must fulfill two basic requirements: (1) comply with the Jackson-Vanik provisions of the Trade Act of 1974 that states that the President of the United States determines that a country neither denies or impedes the right or opportunity of its citizens to emigrate; and (2) reach a bilateral commercial agreement with the United States. Jackson-Vanik allows for the President to issue a yearly waiver to allow the granting of PNTR.\n\nFor many years, People's Republic of China was the most important country in this group which required an annual waiver to maintain free trade status. The waiver for the PRC had been in effect since 1980. Every year between 1989 and 1999, legislation was introduced in Congress to disapprove the President's waiver. The legislation had sought to tie free trade with China to meeting certain human rights conditions that go beyond freedom of emigration. All such attempted legislation failed to pass. The requirement of an annual waiver was inconsistent with the rules of the World Trade Organization, and for the PRC to join the WTO, Congressional action was needed to grant PNTR to the PRC. This was accomplished in late 1999, allowing the PRC to join WTO in the following year.\n\nBy Act of Congress, the United States granted permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) status to Czechoslovakia (later the Czech Republic and Slovakia), Hungary, and Romania after the fall of the communist governments in those countries.The United States granted PNTR to Albania, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania before their countries acceded to the WTO. Before it granted PNTR, the United States invoked the non-application provision against Mongolia for more than two years after it joined the WTO on January 29, 1997. It also invoked the provision against Armenia from its WTO accession on February 5, 2003, until it was granted PNTR on January 7, 2005, and with Kyrgyzstan from when it joined the WTO on December 20, 1998, until receiving PNTR on June 29, 2000.\n\nVietnam was given temporary free trade status in 2001 on a year-to-year waiver basis. As a prerequisite for that country's accession to the WTO. Vietnam has had PNTR status since December 2006.\n\nUkraine was granted PNTR in 2006. In December 2012, President Barack Obama signed the Russia and Moldova Jackson-Vanik Repeal and Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012 (Magnitsky Act) granting PNTR to Russia and Moldova.\n\nIn the last year of his presidency, Bill Clinton called on Congress to help him change China’s normal trade relations status with the U.S. to permanent. This would amend the Trade Act of 1974 which had the trade status of China annually reviewed to determine the best course of action. The piece of legislation was introduced to the house as H.R. number 4444 on May 15, 2000 by William Reynolds Archer, a Republican Representative from Texas (he had three cosponsors). Introduce to the house the legislation referred to the Ways and Means committee in the House of Representatives to be amended and written up. The legislation was introduced by saying that the bill was a top priority for the rest of the year and it was vital to the U.S. agriculture market to have access to a market that accounts for one-fifth of the world’s population.\n\nThe other crucial point made was the involvement the U.S. needed to help the workers of the People’s Republic of China to lead better lives. Congress added some important points into the legislation to make sure that when China entered the World Trade Organization it could be reprimanded for crimes against the workers of the country, and certain markets would be mutually exclusive between the two countries. The People’s Republic of China’s businesses had to abide by human rights for their workers as stated in the internationally recognized worker rights. To monitor the workers’ rights Congress established the Congressional–Executive Commission on the People’s Republic of China. The commission was to monitor acts of China which reflect compliance or violation, compile lists of persons believed to be imprisoned, detained, or tortured due to pursuit of their human rights, monitor the development of the rule of law in China, and encourage the development of programs and activities of the U.S. government and private organizations with a goal of increasing the interchange of people and ideas. The committee formed, along with the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR), and the International Trade Commission (ITC) was to give an annual report to the President.\n\nCongress believed that they needed to pass a bill that would help the economy stay stimulated if not have a higher growth than at the time. The most productive and trouble-free way to keep the economy growing strong was to outsource and trade more with China. China was to help provide America with superior markets in industry, agriculture, and technology. Congress as whole thought that without these things America would fall behind economically and technologically to some enemies of America. If China did not get support from America they could go to another country that would not be so strict on their treatment of people, and they could use that country to gain access to the WTO. The down side to this was that no markets could provide and receive China’s goods like the United States markets could.\n\nThe International Trade Commission’s report was the determination of China’s impacts on United States market, and how those certain disruptions can be remedied or expanded. The ITC was to find what domestic industries were being hurt by the trade and to present how the repair could be made. This was the most important part of the bill for most of the country. The bill breaks down to depending on how the different markets in the U.S. economy are doing it can use China’s markets as a catalyst to help stabilize when need be.\n\nThe bill created a stir among Congress and the American people when presented because people did not believe that America could actually do anything to help regulate China’s treatment of workers. Aside from people’s rights activists many business men believed in the bill to help flourish the different areas of industry. The legislation was passed by the House of Representatives on May 24, 2000 and by the Senate on September 19, 2000. Members of the senate wanted to add in amendments on treating their workers even better than stated in previous legislation, and to make the punishment for breaking the rules greater. Congress was up for re-election that year so due to time constraints all twenty four amendments were rejected. The President signed on Oct 10, 2000 and that day it became Public Law No: 106-286.\n\nUS imports from China more than quadrupled between 2000 and 2015, increasing the decline of US manufacturing jobs. Since the passing of the bill there have been three attempts to repeal the PNTR with China. The strongest attempt was in 2005 when House Rep. Bernie Sanders and 61 co-sponsors introduced a legislation that would repeal the Permanent Normal Trade Relations with China. Rep. Sanders said to the house, \"anyone who takes an objective look at our trade policy with China must conclude that is an absolute failure and needs to be fundamentally overhauled\". The Representative goes into numbers of the trade deficit increased and the number of American jobs being lost to our overseas competitors. One point that Sanders did not make due to time constraints and the legislation being passed so quickly was that nothing in the way China treats its workers has changed.\n\n"}
{"id": "18106574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18106574", "title": "Political naturalism", "text": "Political naturalism\n\nPolitical naturalism is a minor political ideology and legal system which believes that there is a natural law, just and obvious to all, that crosses ideologies, faiths and personal thinking, that naturally guaranties justice. It is inspired by sociological naturalism, and scientific naturalism's belief that the precision of natural sciences can be applied to social sciences, and hence to practical social activities like politics and law.\n\nIt may be seen as a natural law-based version of legalism/constitutionalism (especially of prescriptive constitutionalism, in the way it tries, idealistically, to make a constitution how it should justly be), and it bears relation with many constitutional monarchies (as in that system they too believe in rule of the law and in certain things who are naturally correct (like monarchy, monarchic institutions and traditions.\n\nThe roots of this legal political ideology may be found in positive visions of natural law (like John Locke's and Rousseau's, and even in the Founding Fathers of the United States. The Catholic German Centre Party politician and diplomat Karl Friedrich von Savigny also thought so.\n\nIts main modern thinker is Egyptian legal scholar and creator of the Egyptian Civil Code Al-Razzak Al-Sanhuri. Through the Egyptian Code, many other Arab constitutions (in monarchist and pre-dictatorships Iraq and Libya and modern Qatar) ended up including political naturalist laws, and Al-Sanhuri himself wrote the Syrian and Jordanian civil codes and the Kuwaiti commercial code.\n"}
{"id": "11523597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11523597", "title": "Praetor's Edict", "text": "Praetor's Edict\n\nThe Praetor's Edict \"(Edictum praetoris)\" in ancient Roman law was an annual declaration of principles made by the new \"Praetor urbanus\" – the elected magistrate charged with administering justice within the city of Rome. During the early Empire the Praetor's Edict was revised to become the Edictum perpetuum.\n\nThe incoming Praetor by his Edict laid out legal principles he intended to follow when making judicial decisions during his year in office. To some degree the new Praetor had sufficient discretion to modify the existing Edict of the former Praetor. Many years the new Praetor would simply adopt and so continue the contents of Edict he \"inherited\" from his predecessor.\n\nPraetors often did not possess any special expertise in law, but rather were successful politicians. So, in deciding whether or not to augment or otherwise modify the Edict, the new Praetor would usually consult with Roman jurists who were familiar with the applicable areas of the law, and who knew the emerging currents of legal change. Language from the responsa of these Roman scholars of jurisprudence often found its way into the Edict. \n\nThe Praetor's Edict had legal force only during the incumbency of the particular Praetor who issued it. Yet, as the pre-existing contents of the ongoing Edict were generally adopted by next Praetor, the Edict attained substantial continuity, subject to marginal changes. On the other hand, the yearly changes usually resulted in welcome legal innovations. With the accretion of annual modifications, the document grew in stature, as well as in size, scope, and reach; it became a primary source of legal growth and evolution. In 67 BCE, a \"lex Cornelia de edictis\" passed, which required the Praetor to abide by his own Edict.\n\nThe reconstructed Edict we have today is divided into five parts: I preliminary procedures, II ordinary remedies, III summary remedies, IV execution of judgment, V formulas, interdicts, exceptions, stipulations. Also the Edict has 45 titles, with some subdivisions, and 292 paragraphs. Many paragraph entries contain only the subject matter addressed, without any of its substance (which is unknown to us). While much is considered authentic, uncertainties and unresolved disputes remain for further study. Much is missing.\n\nSeveral miscellaneous examples taken from the reconstructed Edict:\n\n\"Persons under twenty-five years old. Whatever is said to have been transacted with a person less than twenty-five years old, I shall consider each case on the basis of its particulars.\" Paragraph 41, in the first part, from title X \"Restorations to Original Status\". \n\n\"Whence anything is thrown out or is poured out onto that place where commonly is made a road or where persons assemble I shall grant an action, for twice as much damage as thereby is caused or done against the person who dwells there.\" From paragraph 61, in the second part, from title XV \"Those Goods That Are in Anyone's Property\". \n\n\"The institorian action. Whatever is transacted with an agent in respect to that thing for which he is appointed, against the person who appoints him I shall grant an action.\" Paragraph 102, in the second part, from title XVIII \"Whatever Business Is Transacted with a Shipmaster or an Agent Who Is in Another Person's Power\".\n\n\"Whoever hides for the purpose of defrauding his creditors, if he is not defended according to the judgment of an honorable man, I shall order his property pursuant to the edict to be possessed, to be advertised for sale, and to be sold.\" Paragraph 205, in the fourth part, from title XXXVIII \"Those Causes for Which a Person Enters into Possession\". \n\n\"As you now possess certain land about which there is the present action, which land the one party has procured from the other party neither by violence nor secretly nor by precarium, in such manner you shall possess it. Against these conditions, I forbid violence to be employed.\" Paragraph 247a, in the fifth part, from title XlIII \"Interdicts\", from subdivision vi \"Interdict on as you possess\".\n\nThe Edict we have now has been reconstructed from various sources, mainly from juristic commentaries on it, such as that of Furius Anthianus. Because of its great importance, the Praetor's Edict, or portions of it, often became the subject of detailed examination and study, in the course of which the specific content of the Edict would be described or quotations would be made directly from it. Of course, much of the literature of the ancient world has been lost, the works of Roman jurist included. Those juristic works that do survive usually come from the latter, or classical, period of Roman Law. Accordingly, most of the Edict we have now is based on the content of the Edict revised in AD 129 by Hadrian (see below). How much and in what fashion and degree this Edict of Hadrian's reign differs from the earlier Praetor's Edict of the Roman Republic are questions that may only be addressed by informed speculation.\n\nAn important aspect of the Praetor's Edict concerned formulary procedure. During the late Republic, the trial at civil law increasingly employed formulary procedure. In this process, the Praetor first determines the legal issue in a pending case. Then the Praetor decides on a prescriptive formula which instructs what remedy will be appropriate depending on what facts are found. Then the Praetor assigns the case to a \"iudex\" for trial. After the facts are determined at trial, the \"iudex\" gives judgment according to the formula. \n\nThe Praetor's Edict contained many different principle of law, often drawing on prior legal rulings. Besides the trial formulas, it also regulated procedural matters, such as the initiation of a legal suit. In time, such sample formulae became listed by the Praetor in his Edict issued at the beginning of his term of office.\n\nAs later summarized by the Roman jurist Papinian (c. 148–211), the law that was developed by the Praetors in their Edict became an instrument which could supplement, explain, and improve the Ius civile. He writes:\n\n\"Praetorian law (\"jus praetorium\") is that which in the public interest the praetors have introduced in aid or supplementation or correction of the \"jus civile\". This is also called honorary law (\"jus honorarium\"), being so named for the high office (\"honos\") of the praetor.\" \n\nThus, the Praetor's Edict developed into an important vehicle for the evolution of Roman civil law. A great deal of commentary was written by jurists concerning this \"praetorian law\" or \"ius honorarium\", addressing the legal principles contained in this Edict.\n\nEventually, the above discretion allowed the \"Praetor urbanus\" regarding his Edict was no longer considered appropriate. Accordingly circa CE 129, action was taken that severely restricted its further modification. Under the emperor Hadrian (r. 117–138), the celebrated jurist Salvius Julianus made a formal revision to the \"Praetor's Edict\" as well as to similar edicts, e.g., that of the Aediles. This newly edited and consolidated version of the edict then became fixed, subject only to changes approved by the Emperor: hence, the \"Edictum perpetuum\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6307630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6307630", "title": "Protectory", "text": "Protectory\n\nA protectory is a Roman Catholic institution for the shelter and training of the young, designed to afford neglected or abandoned children shelter, food, raiment and the rudiments of an education in religion, morals, science and manual training or industrial pursuits.\nInstitutions of this character are to be found in most of the dioceses of the United States. They are usually open to the reception of juvenile delinquents, who, under the better ideas now obtaining in criminal procedure, are committed by the courts, especially by Juvenile Courts, to educational rather than to penal institutions.\nSan Michéle, the first protectory for youth, was founded at Rome in 1704 by Pope Clement XI. When John Howard, the English prison reformer (1726–90), visited the institution, he read above the entrance this inscription: \"Clement XI, Supreme Pontiff, for the reformation and education of criminal youths, to the end that those who when idle had been injurious to the State, might, when better instructed and trained, become useful to it. In the Year of Grace 1704; of the Pontiff, the fourth\". On a marble slab inserted in one of the interior walls he read further: \"It is of little use to restrain criminals by punishment, unless you reform them by education\". This became the keynote of modern penology. The inmates worked together by day in a large hall where was hung up in large letters, visible to all, the Latin word \"silentium\", indicating that the work must go on in silence. At night they slept in separate cells. This system of associated or congregate labour in silence by day and cellular separation at night, for which, under the name of the Auburn System, so much excellence has been claimed in American penology, was thus inaugurated at Rome in the beginning of the eighteenth century, more than a hundred years prior to the introduction of the method into use here. The same wise pontiff established in connexion with this foundation of San Michéle a special court for the trial of offenders under twenty years of age, a plan that has re-appeared in the last decade in the Juvenile Courts established in America and eelsewhere for the trial of delinquents under (seventeen years of) age. \n\nSecular protectories or reform schools, or euphemestically termed \"training schools\", were instituted in America during the initial quarter of the nineteenth century. On 1 January 1825, the House of Refuge was opened with appropriate exercises on what is now Madison Square, New York City. Nine children, just gathered from the streets, were present and formed the nucleus of the new establishment that later grew to vast proportions on Randalls Island. Boston followed with a similar institution in 1826; Philadelphia in 1828; and in 1855 a girls' reformatory was founded at Lancaster, Massachusetts on the family or cottage plan, dividing the institution into three separate houses of thirty girls each, with their three matrons, all under the general supervision of a superintendent.\nIn 1904, according to the U.S. Census Reports, there were thirty-nine states and territories with institutions for juvenile delinquents, and these had ninety-three institutions exclusively for such children, reporting a population; between seven and twenty-one years of age, of 23,034 as against 14,846 population in such institutions on 1 June 1890. These figures did not include children placed in these institutions by parents or guardians without the sanction or order of a magistrate or other lawful committing authority, nor persons under twenty-one years of age committed to institutions that are not exclusively for juveniles, e.g. jails and workhouses. Inquiry at the Census Office in Washington showed there were one hundred and three institutions for juvenile delinquents in 1910; eighty-seven of these institutions reported 22,096 inmates on 1 January 1910.\n\nIn the great majority of cases the institutions are public. But the report of the Census entitled \"Prisoners and Juvenile Delinquents in Institutions: 1904\" observes that in several states the reformation and correction of delinquents are entrusted in whole or in part to private or religious agencies, and distinguishes as the most notable among these the Catholic Protectory in what is now the Parkchester section of the Bronx, the largest institution of the kind in the U.S., which in 1904 contained 2566 delinquents and dependents. The actual number present in this institution on 31 December 1909, was 2320, of whom 540 were girls accommodated in a department and buildings separate from the boys under the care of the Sisters of Charity. The boys were in charge of the Brothers of the Christian Schools, of the Institute founded by St. John Baptiste de la Salle. Another large protectory, St. Mary's Industrial School for Boys in charge of the Xaverian Brothers at Baltimore, Md., had a juvenile population of 748 on 1 December 1909. Since 1866, St. Mary's has cared for 7593 boys. Similar institutions were: in the United States, at Chicago, Illinois; Arlington, New Jersey (Diocese of Newark); Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Utica, New York (Diocese of Syracuse). In Canada, 4 in the Archdiocese of Montreal. In England: for boys, at Walthamstow, Essex; Farnworth, Lancashire; Birkdale, Lancashire and Market Weighton, Yorkshire nad for girls, at Bristol, Gloucestershire and Liverpool, Lancashire. In Scotland, at Parkhead, Glasgow. In Ireland: for boys, at Glencree, Co. Wicklow, and Philipstown, King's Co.; for girls, at Drumcondra, Co. Dublin.\n\nMost of the juvenile delinquents sent to institutions in the United States are committed either during minority or for an indeterminate period. Statistics show that female delinquents are committed during minority more frequently than the males. On the other hand, commitment for an indeterminate period was more frequently imposed upon males than females. Most of these delinquents are literate. During 1904, of the male delinquents, 84.7 per cent could both read and write; the per cent of literate females was as high as 89.4. The length of stay in the institution is as a general rule not long. Under the system of parole and probation, the actual restraint is much shortened. The average duration of residence of 1508 boys discharged from the New York Catholic Protectory had been fifteen and two-thirds months; of two hundred and fifty girls, thirty-two and one-half months. The management of the Protectory claim that the girls' department cannot be considered a reformatory or even a home for delinquent children, and express their satisfaction with the recent amendment of the law in New York to prohibit the conviction of children under sixteen years of age of crime as such, restricting the complaint to delinquency. \n\nAt St-Yon, in France, in the first quarter of the eighteenth century, St. John Baptiste de la Salle undertook the training and correction of wayward youth. The methods which are now employed at the New York Catholic Protectory, which is under the care of the order established by him, can be taken as indicative of the general plan of protectories or the ideals which they seek to attain. The Protectory aims to form the youth committed to its care by vigilance, good example and instruction: vigilance, to remove from the children the many occasions of offending; example, that the teachers be exemplars of the virtues they inculcate, for example is much better than precept; instruction, that they may become intelligent scholars, not only in the secular sciences but in religion, which is the warmth that gives life and light to all other learning, without which there is danger that knowledge may but minister to evil. Many of the boys received have been truant players with a strong disinclination to study. To overcome this and to train and develop the receptive faculties in the usual school studies entails much labour upon the Brothers. Moreover, it is felt that for these children especially vocational studies should not be postponed until mature years, but should be commenced early, so as to accustom the boy to what may afterwards prove to be the means of earning his own livelihood when he shall have left the Protectory. Accordingly, the effective faculties are instructed in different industries, in printing in all its branches, photography, tailoring, shoemaking, laundry work, industrial and ornamental drawing, sign-painting, painting, wheel-wrighting, blacksmithing, plumbing, carpentry, bricklaying, stone-work, baking in its different branches, and in practical knowledge of boilers, engines, dynamos and electric wiring. \n\nAt the Lincoln Agricultural School, a subsidiary institution, the boys also receive a training in dairy-farming and other agriculture. It was felt that if these children should not acquire a taste for the farm and for husbandry, but should return later to the city, they will have passed the trying period of their lives under conditions that will help them to be good men and assist them in health and in many other ways in after-life. While the productivity of these protectories is sometimes considerable, this is not the aim, but simply incidental to their primary object, which is the development of an industrious boy of good character for the glory of God and the good of the country. Protectories are always desirous of allowing their inmates to go out into the world, if they are prepared for it. They are impressed with the truth in the statement of Archbishop Hughes in his letter of 19 June 1863, to Dr. Ives: \"Let the children be in their house of protection just as short as possible. Their lot is, and is to be, in one sense, a sufficiently hard one under any circumstances, but the sooner they know what it is to be the better they will be prepared for encountering its trials and difficulties\". These protectories have established working boys' homes, like St. Philip's of New York City, St. James' of Baltimore, the Working Boys' Home of Chicago, and other places, where the children may be safely housed and fed, taught manners, trained in the amenities of life, and somewhat accustomed to the use of money and economic conditions before they become incorporated in the great mass of citizenship. \n"}
{"id": "38986585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38986585", "title": "Rough ASCII", "text": "Rough ASCII\n\nA rough ASCII, uncertified rough draft, uncertified unedited rough draft, realtime unedited rough draft, uncertified copy, or simply RASCII ( ) is the rough draft version of a transcript created by a court reporter, usually of a legal proceeding. It may have spelling errors as it has not yet been finalized. Once the transcript has been finalized and certified by the court reporter, the RASCII is then transformed into a so called \"ASCII\" (American Standard Code for Information Interchange).\n\nA court reporter transcribes spoken or recorded speech into written form, using machine shorthand or voice writing equipment to produce official transcripts of court hearings, depositions and other official proceedings. If requested, the court reporter will go on to proofread and finalize the transcript before certifying it. Frequently a \"Rough\" copy will be requested to review before the final copy is created.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38568071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38568071", "title": "Royal Succession Act 2013", "text": "Royal Succession Act 2013\n\nThe Royal Succession Act is an act of the New Zealand parliament to alter the laws of succession to the New Zealand throne.\n\nCompared to the Canadian Succession to the Throne Act, 2013 which merely proposes to assent to the British Succession to the Crown Act 2013, this legislation effectively re-legislates the effects of the British act.\n\nOn 28 October 2011, at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting held in Perth, Western Australia, the heads of government of the 16 Commonwealth realms, which share Elizabeth II as head of state, announced that they would introduce legislation in all 16 countries to end the primacy of males over females and the disqualification of persons married to Catholic spouses in the succession to the Crown. In a letter to the other realms' heads of government, prior to the Perth Agreement, British Prime Minister David Cameron additionally proposed to limit the requirement to obtain the monarch's permission to marry to the first six people in line to the throne.\n\nMonarchy New Zealand welcomed the Bill, stating \"The much-needed changes to the royal succession will remove gender discrimination by allowing women equal right to the throne.\"\n\nThe Republican Movement of Aotearoa New Zealand described the changes as \"too little, too late\" and was critical of the continuation of the rule preventing Catholics being monarch.\n\nThe bill's provisions are to implement in New Zealand law changes to the succession agreed to at the 2011 Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting. Specifically it:\n\nTo implement those provisions, the bill provides for amending the Bill of Rights 1689, the Act of Settlement 1701 and the Imperial Laws Application Act 1988 in so far as they apply in New Zealand.\n\nThe Bill was introduced into Parliament on 18 February 2013, by Minister of Justice Judith Collins, and it passed its first reading on 2 July 2013, with 104 votes in favour and 15 abstentions. It was then referred to the Justice and Electoral Committee, which reported on 31 October 2013. Its second and third readings were on 10 December 2013. Royal assent was given on 17 December. The Act was brought into force on 26 March 2015, in concert with Her Majesty's other realms.\n\n"}
{"id": "38982959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38982959", "title": "SS Wairuna", "text": "SS Wairuna\n\nSS \"Wairuna, originally called D/S \"Schneefels, then SS \"Gibraltar and SS \"Polescar, was a cargo steamship that was launched in Germany in 1913. She had a varied career spanning three decades under successive German, British and New Zealand owners before being scuttled in the North Atlantic in 1945.\n\nThe ship was built by Flensburger Schiffbau-Gesellschaft of Flensburg, Schleswig-Holstein. She was launched on 13 November 1913 and completed on 1 January 1914. She had nine corrugated furnaces with a combined grate area of that heated three 185 lb/in single-ended boilers with a combined heating surface of .\n\nThe ship was launched as D/S \"Schneefels\" for the Deutsche Dampfschiffahrts-Gesellschaft Hansa (DDG Hansa). D/S stands for \"Dampfschiff\", just as \"SS\" stands for \"Steamship\" in English. DDG Hansa gave many of its ships names ending in \"-fels\" (\"rock\"), (\"e.g.\" D/S \"Freienfels\", D/S \"Uhenfels\", D/S \"Wachtfels\"), so that collectively they became known as the \"Fels ships\".\n\nOn 5 August 1914, a week after the outbreak of the First World War, \"Schneefels\" was in the Mediterranean a mile off Europa Point when the Royal Navy captured her and took her to Gibraltar. She was judged to be a prize ship and was renamed \"Gibraltar\". She was posted to Moudros in the Aegean Sea where she served as a store ship until 1915. From then until 1916 she served as a water carrier in the eastern Mediterranean.\n\nIn August 1916 the ship was returned to general cargo duties. She remained in UK Government ownership but was placed under the management of Houlder, Middleton and Company and renamed \"Polescar\". In 1917 her management was transferred to G Heyn and Sons of Belfast. On 14 March 1917 she was northwest of Ireland when an enemy submarine on the surface chased her, but she outran it. On 25 September 1917 she was unloading at Dunkirk, France when she was caught in an air raid. A German bomb hit her and killed two people. On 5 August 1918 she was in the English Channel en route from Montreal to Le Havre. About southwest of St Catherine's Point she was damaged by a torpedo fired by the German submarine SM \"UC-71\", but \"Polescar\"s crew managed to beach the ship to prevent her from sinking.\n\nThe British-India Steam Navigation Company bought her in January 1919 but sold her the next month for £146,000 to the Union Steam Ship Company of New Zealand.\nThe Union Line renamed her \"Wairuna\", which had been the name of a cargo ship sunk by the German auxiliary cruiser in 1917.\n\nIn 1921 the Union Company had her converted to carry oil cargo in her double bottoms. On 5 August 1925 \"en route\" from San Francisco to New Zealand \"Wairuna\" ran out of coal north of Auckland. She had radioed distress messages and was rescued by another Union Company ship, the \"Waihemo\".\n\nOn 4 February 1933, a day after leaving Newcastle, New South Wales, \"Wairuna\" lost a blade from her propeller. She completed her voyage to Auckland on its remaining blades. On 2 March 1936 she collided with Glasgow Wharf at Napier, New Zealand. Wharf piles were damaged but the ship was unharmed. On 8 February 1937 she was in San Francisco when fire broke out in her cargo of copra. The ship was extensively damaged, with some buckling of her plates.\n\nDuring the Second World War \"Wairuna\" continued in merchant service in the Pacific. In 1945 the Union Company sold her to the UK MoWT. The MoWT appointed J&J Denholm to manage her, and she served as a store ship on the River Clyde. On 5 August 1945 she was at Greenock when a fire destroyed much of her upperworks.\n\nIn October 1945 \"Wairuna\"s hulk was loaded with 8,432 tons of unused chemical ammunition and on 30 October she was scuttled in the North Atlantic beyond the continental shelf, 120 nautical miles (138 miles; 222 km) northwest of Ireland. Her wreck is at in of water.\n\n\"Wairuna\" was one of four redundant cargo ships that the Admiralty used to dispose of chemical ammunition in the same area of the North Atlantic in 1945. The others were on 11 September, on 1 October, and on 30 December.\n\nThe ship's bell has been preserved. It is cast brass and bears her original name \"Schneefels\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36884611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36884611", "title": "Saiga Antelope Memorandum of Understanding", "text": "Saiga Antelope Memorandum of Understanding\n\nThe Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) Concerning Conservation, Restoration and Sustainable Use of the Saiga Antelope is a Multilateral Environmental Memorandum of Understanding and came into effect on 24 September 2006 under the auspices of the Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS), also known as the Bonn Convention. The MoU covers five range States (Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Russian Federation, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan), all of which have signed. A number of cooperating organizations have also signed the MoU.\n\nTo implement the decision of the Seventh Conference of the Parties of CMS to list the Saiga Antelope \"(Saiga tatarica)\" on Appendix II of the Convention as a consequence of its endangered status and the conviction that conservation efforts of this species are dependent on international collaboration between the range States, an Article IV agreement was concluded and took effect on 24 September 2006 after signature by the third range State. \nSignatories to the Saiga Antelope MoU:\n\nIn addition, the following organizations have signed the MoU:\n\nSince the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, Saiga populations declined by more than 95% (scientists estimate that only 64,400-69,400 Saigas remain from a former population of nearly 2 million), primarily due to poaching for the species’ meat and horn and Chinese traditional medice. Being one of the fastest population collapses of large mammals recently observed, the MoU aims to reduce current exploitation levels and restore the population status of these nomads of the Central Asian steppes.\n\nUntil 2002 only the sub-species \"Saiga tatarica tatarica\" was listed on the CMS Appendix II and thus the scope of the MoU was limited to this sub-species. In 2008 however, all \"Saiga spp.\" were listed on Appendix II and at the Second Meeting of Signatories the species coverage of the MoU was extended to the entire species.\n\nAll Signatories agree to collaborate to improve the conservation status of the Saiga antelope throughout its range, and undertake national and joint activities to conserve restore and sustainably use the species and those habitats and ecosystems important for its long-term survival. Therefore, they shall, individually or collectively:\n\n\nThe MoU took effect immediately after at least three of the range States signed it (24 September 2006) and shall remain in effect indefinitely subject to the right of any Signatory to terminate its participation by providing one year’s written notice to all of the other Signatories.\n\nMeetings of Signatories are organized regularly to review the conservation status of the Saiga antelope and the implementation of the MoU and Action Plan. National reports by individual Signatories and a report prepared by the Secretariat are also submitted.\n\nThe First Meeting of Signatories took place in Almaty, Kazakhstan, 25–26 September 2006. Previous to the meeting a two-day Technical Workshop was organized. During the First Meeting of Signatories the following points were addressed:\n\n\nThe Signatories represented at the meeting were Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan. The other two range States, the Russian Federation and Mongolia, were also represented. Additionally, China and the United States were also present. Finally, a number of organizations such as UNDP Kazakhstan, NABU and TRAFFIC attended the meeting.\n\nThe Second Meeting of Signatories was convened by CMS and took place in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 7–10 September 2010, preceded by a technical meeting. The Meeting of Signatories:\n\n\nThe Signatories represented at the meeting were Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation and Mongolia. China as well as a number of organizations such as IUCN, CITES and IFAW also attended the meeting.\n\nFrom 27–29 September 2010 a Workshop on the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Saiga Antelope was organized in Urumqi, China. The workshop focused on strengthening international cooperation among consumer and range States and provide a platform for discussion between the Asian traditional medicine industry and those managing conservation activities for the species.\n\nFrom 17–18 February 2011 a Workshop on the Implementation and Coordination of the Saiga Antelope (Saiga spp.) Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) and other CMS Instruments for Migratory Ungulates was held in Astana, Kazakhstan. During this workshop priority activities for Saiga conservation in Kazakhstan were agreed and technical coordination arrangements for 2011 for the MoU with the Association for the Conservation of Biodiversity of Kazakhstan (ACBK) and the Saiga Conservation Alliance (SCA) were confirmed.\n\nThe CMS Secretariat – located in Bonn, Germany – acts as the secretariat to the MoU. One of the main tasks of the secretariat is to prepare an overview report compiled on the basis of information at its disposal pertaining to the Saiga antelope. Furthermore, the secretariat also acts as the Depositary.\n\nThe MoU includes a detailed Action Plan, which was first developed in 2002 at a preparatory meeting in Elista, Russian Federation. It has been drafted in consideration of biological, economic and social research, as well as practical information provided by a range of stakeholders and came into force in 2006. The Action Plan provides a road map to guide the implementation of conservation action for the Saiga antelope in the range States and in those countries which import Saiga products, such as the species’ horn. It has three main objectives:\n\n\nTo reach these objectives activities focus on:\n\n\nThe Medium Term International Work Programme (MTIWP) is the primary road map for conservation actions under the Saiga antelope MoU and is regularly updated. It is this work programme which is used to implement the MoU and to review progress; it reflects the highest priorities for action for a period of five years in order to support the Action Plan’s implementation. The MTIWP for 2007-2011 was adopted at the first Meeting of Signatories in 2006; the MTIWP for 2011-2015 was adopted at the second Meeting of Signatories in 2010.\n\nThe Altyn Dala Conservation Initiative (ADCI) is a large scale programme to conserve the northern steppe and semi desert ecosystems and their Critically Endangered species like the Saiga antelope. The ADCI is an initiative of the Kazakh Committee of Forestry and Hunting (CFH) of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment Protection and is implemented by the Association for the Conservation of Biodiversity of Kazakhstan (ACBK) in partnership with the Frankfurt Zoological Society (FZS) and the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB).\n\nThe programme started in 2006, uses an ecosystem approach and focuses on an area of about 55 million hectares. The main objectives are:\n\n\nOne of the biggest achievements to date is the improvement of the population status of the Betpak-Dala Saiga population, which increased more than fourfold since 2006 as a result of joint efforts of the Kazakhstan government, the ADCI and its partners – from estimated 18,600 individuals in 2006 to estimated 78,000 individuals in 2011.\n\nDespite this good news, the Kazakh Saiga population is still at risk. In 2010 about 15 percent of the Saiga antelope population (around 12,000 individuals) died by an outbreak of pasteurellosis, a disease affecting the lungs, within a 4,500 hectare area of western Kazakhstan.\n\nIn 1995 the Saiga antelope was included in Appendix II of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) to primarily address the illegal trade in Saiga horn. Since one of the main conservation needs is to reduce and control poaching of the species for their meat and horn, CMS and CITES closely collaborate to address both Saiga population management and illegal trade in order to contribute towards the international conservation of this flagship species of the Eurasian steppes. In the Joint Work Programme between CMS and CITES for the period 2012-2014, the Saiga species are one of the target groups for joint activities.\n\nTo coordinate communication, the newsletter Saiga News was launched in 2005 by the Saiga Conservation Alliance. It is published bi-annually in English and Range State languages and can be accessed through the Saiga Conservation Alliance website.\n\n"}
{"id": "5557127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5557127", "title": "Salic patrimony", "text": "Salic patrimony\n\nSalic patrimony (or \"inheritance\" or \"land property\", after the legal term \"Terra salica\" used in the Salian code) refers to clan-based possession of real estate property, particularly in Germanic context. \"Terra salica\" could not be sold or otherwise disposed; it was not alienable. \n\nIn Salic patrimony, the clan demesne is divided between male agnatic heirs, as often (but not necessarily) is also succession to supreme chieftainship of the clan within an agnatic extended family only upon entrusting the common domain to one of the agnates. \n\nIt has been observed that \"Salic patrimony\" is the usual pattern of landholding in most tribal societies. In Kent, a comparable practice survived into the Norman period under the name \"Gavelkind\".\n\nLands belonged to the entire clan or house, which was a composition of agnatic relatives. Real estate (in medieval West-European society, that sort of property was often called demesne) meant landed property, which was basically a farm, but may have been larger territory, even a kingdom. Royal domains in several countries were such properties. To usual medieval feudal power structure, the actual holding of royal domain manors, fortresses and arable lands was the stronghold to exercise governmental control over surrounding areas. Partitions of such properties thus meant practical sharing of areas of influence and control over territories, thus creating partitioned kingdoms and fiefs.\n\nWhen a father died, all his sons were entitled to receive a share of real estate. When a holder died sonless, the clan, which means his agnatic relatives, succeeded in the possession of his lands. Share of the family demesne, share in its possession, was a birthright of males born in male line to the \"clan\".\n\nThis pattern, sort of partible inheritance but only between male heirs, was inherent in archaic societies, such as in Germanic tribes of early medieval period. It however sometimes continued in one or another form in feudal societies too, and even early modern states.\n\nFor example, in 11th and 12th centuries, the Kingdom of Norway (872–1397) was several times partitioned between males of the reigning dynasty. At the time, the Kingdom of Norway was looked upon as a property of the king. As such it would be divided among his heirs, like any other private estate under Ancient Norwegian property laws. The first such partition between brothers took place in 1067 when Olav III of Norway, returning from England, demanded his younger brother Magnus II of Norway to cede him his portion of the kingdom. Magnus was to rule the northern half of the country and Olav the southern. This division is the beginning of a long series of partitions of the kingdom between the sons and heirs of the ruling king. \n\nThe Kingdom of Franks was partitioned during both Merovingian and Carolingian dynasties. A permanent future division took place in 842, when three sons of late Emperor Louis I partitioned the royal lands in Verdun, thus creating the division between France and Germany.\n\nOften this inheritance pattern of division clashed with other, more centralized needs: a clan, tribe or people needed a chieftain to lead them. If and when one of agnates was elected to chieftaincy, the pattern of Salic patrimony meant that he held the clan property on behalf of the whole agnatic kin, and:\n\n\nThe usual preferential order of succession to chieftainship was to the next brother of a chief. And generally, to an experienced (but not too elderly) agnate of the clan, which basically favored seniority until lifespans grew longer, even to feebleness and infirmity, in average.\n\nIn elective monarchies, this led to custom that it was not necessary to choose the eldest brother to the throne, that each agnate (for example, any of the sons of a previous monarch) was almost as possible successor. Germanic-descending peoples had such customs long into modern era, despite of primogeniture having been officially adopted.\n\nThe possession mode of Salic Patrimony however was the regular and protected form of succession to various fiefs (such as counties, duchies, margraviates, landgraviates) of the Holy Roman Empire. Its original fiefs became partitioned a number of times throughout the history, until in around 16th-18th centuries, these changed mostly to primogenitural succession. This partitioning was one of chief reasons behind why Germany had become so filled with \"independent\" petty states (rather, petty monarchies) until the beginning of 19th century.\n\nMuch later, in some circumstances, succession of chieftainship, headship of the clan, changed into primogeniture. When this happened, Salic patrimony pattern usually meant strict use of so-called Salic Law succession, the one to preserve all agnates' rights over any females.\n\nWhen rulers of petty principalities of Holy Roman Empire changed, one at a time, during 16th-18th centuries their succession system into primogeniture, it has been reported by research that each such change was specifically accepted by the emperor, because such change violated the rights of the junior males of these petty dynasties and was basically against the original understanding of the fief's inheritance law. In cases of arrangements inside a dynasty, the Imperial Court had the task to protect the birthrights of underaged and possibly those of unborn or otherwise potential heirs. Also in several cases, the changes were adopted by a pact between agnates of the birthrighted house, all of them accepting. Later, when the Empire had been dissolved, in many cases changes of succession laws of states originating from the Empire, for example when allowing for Semi-Salic succession, dynastifying a morganatic relative or ceding some territories, were deemed to require the consent of all agnates of the house.\n\nNotions of this patrimony and shared inheritance are present in much-later legal positions of dynasts, after the actual partitioning custom had already ended centuries earlier. From documentation and behavior, royal princes of France in, for example, 18th century regarded the throne as their common property, common inheritance, which was entrusted to the senior dynast of them, who therefore was king of France. The same princes each were regarded to have some sovereignty already, being eligible to succeed to the throne, and it was shown by their titles and prerogatives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1773521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1773521", "title": "Schwegman, Lundberg &amp; Woessner, P.A.", "text": "Schwegman, Lundberg &amp; Woessner, P.A.\n\nSchwegman Lundberg & Woessner, P.A. (Formerly \"Schwegman, Lundberg, Woessner & Kluth, P.A.\") is a Minneapolis, Minnesota based intellectual property law firm founded by three attorneys in December 1993. The firm was one of the first patent law firms in the United States to focus solely on patent prosecution and not on patent litigation (although this practice was already fairly common in Europe).\n\nThe Schwegman firm has offices located in Minneapolis, Minnesota; Silicon Valley, California; Austin Texas; and the United Kingdom, and has 25 satellite locations throughout the United States.\n\nThe practitioners at Schwegman Lundberg & Woessner, P.A. help clients meet IP objectives by providing patent prosecution, freedom to operate, opinion and due diligence services, IP analytics and portfolio Management, post-grant proceedings and trademark services.\n\nTop quality ranking from IAM / Ocean Tomo (2015, 2016. 2017).\n\nRanked in the top twenty in US Utility Patent filings by IPWatchdog (2017)\n\nWinner of the Innovators in Health & Wellness – Excellence in Professional Service award by Minnesota Business magazine (2017)\n\n"}
{"id": "57079058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57079058", "title": "Solar Decathlon Middle East", "text": "Solar Decathlon Middle East\n\nThe 2018 edition of the Solar Decathlon Middle East will take place in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.\n\nThe teams selected to compete in Solar Decathlon Middle East 2018 are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15305079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15305079", "title": "Southern Rhodesian Legislative Council", "text": "Southern Rhodesian Legislative Council\n\nThe Southern Rhodesian Legislative Council was the inaugural governing body for the British South Africa Company (BSAC) territory of Southern Rhodesia (today Zimbabwe) before its replacement by the Southern Rhodesian Legislative Assembly in 1923, when the country achieved responsible government, and duly became a self-governing colony within the British Empire.\n\nThe Council was established on 20 October 1898, and the first election for the Council was held on 17 April 1899. The Council sat for the first time in May 1899. Initially, the Council consisted of four elected members and five members nominated by the British South Africa Company, with the BSAC administrator presiding (and who also holding the right of veto over any legislation). Additionally, a British resident commissioner sat on the Council as a non-voting member.\n\nQualifications for members and franchise were set by the commissioner, who required voters to be British subjects, male, 21 years of age and older, able to write their address and occupation, and then to fulfil any one of the following financial requirements:\nAll voters were entered onto a common roll.\n\nDue to continuing pressure by white settlers for a greater role in the administration of the colony, the number of elected representatives on the Council was gradually increased, so that by 1920 there were 13 elected members.\n\nThe main issue debated in the Legislative Council by the 1910s was the future of Southern Rhodesia following the planned end of BSAC rule. When responsible government was granted to Southern Rhodesia in 1923, the Legislative Council was replaced by the Legislative Assembly. Under the 1924 Constitution, there was provision for the establishment of an upper house to be known as the Legislative Council, but none was ever established.\n"}
{"id": "50311923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50311923", "title": "Taxation in North Korea", "text": "Taxation in North Korea\n\nOfficially, there are no taxes in North Korea. The date of 1 April is the North Korean \"Tax Abolition Day\". North Korean propaganda claims that North Korea is the world's only tax-free country. The North Korean state, however, still collects revenue from its citizens in the form of hidden taxation through various sales taxes. In particular, the turnover tax from consumption provides for the majority of the state revenue in North Korea. The North Korean state does, therefore, collect revenues, which internationally has been compared to a taxation system, but inside North Korea the word tax is not used, and the term for state revenue has been variously translated as \"Socialist Income Accounting\", \"Socialist Economic Management Income\", and in similar fashion.\n\nAgricultural tax-in-kind introduced in 1947 was abolished in North Korea in 1966, as the process of collectivization of North Korean agriculture ended. Direct taxes, such as income tax, were officially eliminated in 1974 as \"remnants of an antiquated society\". This action, however, did not have any significant effect on state revenue because the overwhelming proportion of government funds—an average of 98.1 percent during 1961–70—was from sales taxes such as turnover taxes, deductions from profits paid by state enterprises, and various user fees on machinery and equipment, irrigation facilities, television sets, water, and so on. This is in line with similar practices in other socialist countries.\n\nAnother form of tax in North Korea is periodic requirements for citizens to donate materials or work free of charge on government projects.\n\nSpecial taxation laws also affect the special economic zones in North Korea (in particular the Kaesong Industrial Complex) where foreign companies are allowed to operate. There is therefore corporate tax in North Korea, as outlined by the Processing Trade Law, Lock Gate Law and Copyright Law, and related legislation, including laws on tax evasion. An estimate of this corporate tax in early 2000s was for 10-14%. North Korean workers there are subject to the usual indirect taxation: their wages are paid in hard currencies by foreign companies to North Korean government, which then pays the workers in North Korean currency, minus the value of \"insurance taxes and socio-cultural fees\". A 2013 estimate for the tax on individual workers suggested that the state takes 45% of their wages in a form of a tax.\n\n"}
{"id": "36825124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36825124", "title": "Taxes in middle age (India)", "text": "Taxes in middle age (India)\n\nThis page examines the forms of taxation levied in India during the Middle Ages.\n\nGhari was tax on Houses. It was introduced by Allauddin Khilji.\n\nCharah was tax on Grass lands used for grazing of animals.It was also introduced by Allauddin Khilji.\n\nKharaz was tax levied on gross production of lands belonged to non - Muslims.It was introduced by Firojsah tuglaq.\n\nUshraf was tax levied on gross production of lands belonged to Muslims.\n\nZakat was religious tax levied on Muslims. This was kept in the special treasury of Diwan-i-Rasalat headed by Dabir-i-Mulk.\n\nJizya was tax levied on non Muslims and non followers of Islam.\n\nKhoms was 1/7th of production from mines.\n\nSharab or Shart was 1/10th of crop production levied on farmers to develop and maintain water supply facilities. It was introduced by Firuz Tughlaq.\n\nIn the Vijayanagara Empire, the Government department responsible collecting the land revenue is called as Athanave. The Vijaya-nagara emperors collected the taxes based on the soil fertility of lands. Ta on production is 1/6 of the gross production. It was paid either in the form of crop or Money. Heavy taxes were levied on prostitution.\n\nTurkey sultans and Guznavids followed the Hanafi School of Muslim Jurisprudence as their money policy. The cost were very low in the time of Ibrahim Lodi. In Vijayanagar Empire the cost of goods was also low.\n\nZarib was introduced by Murshid Quli Khan based on the unit \" bhiga\" It was collected as one quarter of the crop production. It was paid in any form.\n\nShivaji collected these taxes outside of his territory. Chaut was ¼ of the government revenue paid by Mughal Officers. In addition to this Sardeshmuki was another ten percent tax.\n"}
{"id": "57960334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57960334", "title": "Thirty-seventh Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland", "text": "Thirty-seventh Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland\n\nThe Thirty-seventh Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland (previously bill no. 87 of 2018) is an amendment to the constitution of Ireland which removed the offence of publishing or uttering blasphemous matter. An amendment to the constitution must be proposed in Dáil Éireann, passed by both Houses of the Oireachtas, and approved in a referendum.\n\nThe bill was introduced to the Oireachtas on 13 July 2018 by the Fine Gael minority coalition government. A referendum was held on 26 October, on the same date as the presidential election. A second referendum on whether to remove an article referring to women’s place in the home, originally scheduled for the same date, was postponed until 2019.\n\nThe amendment was approved by nearly 65% of the voters, with approval from every constituency.\n\nThe publication or utterance of blasphemous matter is an offence specified by the Constitution of Ireland as an exception to general guarantee of the right of the citizens to express freely their convictions and opinions. In \"Corway v Independent Newspapers\" (1999), the Supreme Court held that the common law crime of blasphemous libel related to an established church and could not have survived the enactment of the Constitution. They also held that it was impossible to say what the offence of blasphemy consisted of.\n\nThe offence of publishing or uttering blasphemous matter was first defined in Irish law in the Defamation Act 2009. Someone is guilty of the offence if they publish or utter \"matter that is grossly abusive or insulting in relation to matters held sacred by any religion, thereby causing outrage among a substantial number of the adherents of that religion\", and they intend, \"by the publication or utterance of the matter concerned, to cause such outrage\". There is a broad defence where \"a reasonable person would find genuine literary, artistic, political, scientific, or academic value in the matter to which the offence relates\". To date, there has not been a public prosecution for the offence of blasphemy in the Irish state.\n\nThe Constitutional Convention held a session in November 2013, where they proposed replacing the offence of blasphemy in the Constitution with a prohibition on the incitement of religious hatred.\n\nThe matter came to public attention, in May 2017, when it was announced that English comedian Stephen Fry, along with broadcaster RTÉ, were under criminal investigation for blasphemy under the Act, following a complaint from a member of the public about comments made by Fry in a 2015 broadcast interviewed with veteran Irish broadcaster Gay Byrne. The case was dropped after the police confirmed that they had not been able to locate a sufficient number of offended people.\n\nIn June 2018, Minister for Justice and Equality Charles Flanagan announced that the government would hold a referendum to simply remove the reference to the offence of blasphemy from the Constitution.\n\nThe Thirty-seventh Amendment Bill proposes to amend the final sentence of paragraph i of subsection 1º of Article 40.6 by substituting \"seditious\" for \"blasphemous, seditious,\". The text reads: \n\nThe proposed text reads: \nIf the referendum is passed, the Department of Justice and Equality's draft general scheme for subsequent legislation proposes that the Government will then introduce a formal Bill to repeal sections 36 and 37 of the Defamation Act 2009, which deal with the 'Publication or utterance of blasphemous matter' and the 'Seizure of copies of blasphemous statements' respectively, as well as to replace the words “indecent, obscene, or blasphemous” by “indecent or obscene” in the Censorship of Films Act 1923 as amended by the Civil Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2008, and in the Censorship of Films (Amendment) Act 1925.\n\nThe Bill was proposed by Minister Charlie Flanagan and passed all stage in the Dáil on 18 September and all stages of the Seanad on 20 September. Amendments by Solidarity to remove other religious references from the Constitution were ruled out of order. It was opposed in the Seanad by Rónán Mullen.\n\nA Referendum Commission to provide information to the public on the proposed amendment was established on 18 July 2018. Minister for Housing, Planning and Local Government Eoghan Murphy signed the electoral order for the referendum on 21 September, setting the polling date as 26 October.\n\nBy 17 October, there had been little public debate about the referendum, leading \"The Irish Times\" to suggest that this might cause most \"Don't know\" voters to end up voting \"No\" as had happened before in similar little-debated referendums, although it still expected the referendum to be carried based on the most recent opinion poll of 12 October.\n\nThose who supported removing blasphemy from the constitution included:\n\n\nThose who opposed removing blasphemy from the constitution included:\n\nThe referendum took place on 26 October 2018, on the same day as the presidential election. Polling stations were open from 7 am until 10 pm. Turnout was reported to be low in many areas of the country. By midday, turnout percentages from around the country were in the low teens, with many polling stations reporting single figure percentages. In Dublin some estimates suggested that turnout would be half that of the referendum on the Thirty-sixth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland in May.\n\n\"The Irish Times\"'s analysis of its exit poll data said that \"younger voters overwhelmingly backed deletion, while older voters were much more evenly split, with 48 per cent voting to retain the constitutional article as it currently stands\".\n\nRTÉ noted that given that the presidential election had received far more attention, it had been expected that there would be more abstainers than the 1.8% reported in its exit poll data.\n\nWhen analysing the Red C/RTÉ exit poll, RTÉ Religious and Social Affairs Correspondent Joe Little said that older voters were less likely to vote 'Yes', with over 8 out of 10 voting 'Yes' among those aged under 44, 7 out of 10 among those aged under 45 to 64, and 6 out of 10 among those aged over 65. Support for 'No' also increased in the lower socio-economic groups, with 77% of those in the top ABC1 group voting Yes, 70% of the C2DE group, and 63% of the bottom F group. Sinn Féin voters were likeliest to vote ‘Yes’, followed by those voting Fine Gael, Independent, Labour, and Fianna Fáil. Women and men were equally likely to vote 'Yes'. 80% voted ‘Yes’ in Dublin, slightly over 70% in Munster, and slightly under 70% in the rest of Leinster, and in Connacht and the three border counties of Ulster (Donegal, Cavan,and Monaghan). Only 69% said that \"they understood the proposition to abolish the offence in the Constitution\" (74% of ‘Yes’ voters, and 64% of ‘No’ voters).\n\n"}
{"id": "217089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217089", "title": "Trade agreement", "text": "Trade agreement\n\nA trade agreement (also known as trade pact) is a wide-ranging taxes, tariff and trade treaty that often includes investment guarantees. When two or more countries agree on terms that helps them trade with each other. The most common trade agreements are of the preferential and free trade types are concluded in order to reduce (or eliminate) tariffs, quotas and other trade restrictions on items traded between the signatories. \nThe logic of formal trade agreements is that they outline what is agreed upon and the punishments for deviation from the rules set in the agreement. Trade agreements therefore make misunderstandings less likely, and create confidence on both sides that cheating will be punished; this increases the likelihood of long-term cooperation. An international organization, such as the IMF, can further incentivize cooperation by monitoring compliance with agreements and reporting third countries of the violations. Monitoring by international agencies may be needed to detect non-tariff barriers, which are disguised attempts at creating trade barriers.\n\nThere are three different types of trade agreements. The first is \"unilateral\" trade agreement, this is what happens when a country wants certain restrictions to be enforced but no other countries want them to be imposed. This also allows countries to decrease the amount of trade restrictions. That is also something that does not happen often and could impair a country.\n\nThe second is classified as \"bilateral\" (BTA) when signed between two sides, where each side could be a country (or other customs territory), a trade bloc or an informal group of countries (or other customs territories). When both countries loosen their trade restrictions to help out businesses so that they can prosper better between the different countries this definitely helps lower taxes and it helps them converse about their trade status'. Usually this revolves around subsided domestic industries. Mainly\n\nthe industries fall under automotive, oil, or food industries.\n\nA trade agreement signed between more than two sides (typically neighboring or in the same region) is classified as \"multilateral\". this one is the hardest to work out. Usually involves three or more countries. With the more countries that are involved it's definitely harder to negotiate. They are also more difficult to deal with because each country has their own set of things that they need and or want. Once this type of trade agreement is settled on it becomes a very powerful agreement. It covers a bigger area of the world. The largest multilateral trade agreement is the North American Free Trade Agreement between United States, Canada, and Mexico are the three countries involved in.\n\nThese are between countries in a certain area. The most powerful ones include a few countries that are near each other in a geographical area. These countries usually have similar histories, demographics and even economic goals.\n\nNorth American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) January 1, 1989 was when it was put into effect, this is between United States, Canada, and Mexico this agreement was designed to get rid of tariff barriers between the separate countries.\n\nRegional trade agreements are very hard to establish and commit to when the countries are more diverse.\n\nAssociation of Southeast Asian Nations(ASEAN) this was formed in 1967 between the countries of Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand the reasoning was so that they could engage political and economic encouragement and it helps them all keep regional stability.\n\nThere are a variety of trade agreements; with some being quite complex (European Union), while others are less intensive (North American Free Trade Agreement). The resulting level of economic integration depends on the specific type of trade pacts and policies adopted by the trade bloc:\n\n\n\nTypically the benefits and obligations of the trade agreements apply only to their signatories.\n\nIn the framework of the World Trade Organization, different agreement types are concluded (mostly during new member accessions), whose terms apply to all WTO members on the so-called most-favored basis (MFN), which means that beneficial terms agreed bilaterally with one trading partner will apply also to the rest of the WTO members.\n\nAll agreements concluded outside of the WTO framework (and granting additional benefits beyond the WTO MFN level, but applicable only between the signatories and not to the rest of the WTO members) are called \"preferential\" by the WTO. According to WTO rules these agreements are subject to certain requirements such as notification to the WTO and general reciprocity (the preferences should apply equally to each of the signatories of the agreement) where unilateral preferences (some of the signatories gain preferential access to the market of the other signatories, without lowering their own tariffs) are allowed only under exceptional circumstances and as temporary measure.\n\nThe trade agreements called \"preferential\" by the WTO are also known as \"regional\" (RTA), despite not necessarily concluded by countries within a certain region. There are currently 205 agreements in force as of July 2007. Over 300 have been reported to the WTO. The number of FTA has increased significantly over the last decade. Between 1948 and 1994, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the predecessor to the WTO, received 124 notifications. Since 1995 over 300 trade agreements have been enacted.\n\nThe WTO is further classifying these agreements in the following types:\n\nTrade pacts are frequently politically contentious since they may change economic customs and deepen interdependence with trade partners. Increasing efficiency through \"free trade\" is a common goal. For the most part, governments are supportive of further trade agreements.\n\nThere have been however some concerns expressed by the WTO. According to Pascal Lamy, Director-General of the WTO, the proliferation of RTA “...is breeding concern — concern about incoherence, confusion, exponential increase of costs for business, unpredictability and even unfairness in trade relations.” The position of the WTO is that while the typical trade agreements (called \"preferential\" or \"regional\" by the WTO) are useful to a degree, it is much more beneficial to focus on global agreements in the WTO framework such as the negotiations of the current Doha round.\n\nThe anti-globalization movement opposes such agreements almost by definition, but some groups normally allied within that movement, e.g. green parties, seek fair trade or safe trade provisions that moderate what they perceive to be the ill effects of globalization.\n\n\nLists:\n\n"}
{"id": "51321414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51321414", "title": "Tribunal correctionnel (France)", "text": "Tribunal correctionnel (France)\n\nIn France, the tribunal correctionnel is the first-instance tribunal (\"en première instance\") that governs in penal matters over offenses classified as misdemeanors and committed by an adult. In 2013, French correctional tribunals rendered 576,859 judgments on \"'action publique\", pronounced 501,171 verdicts and \"homologué\" 67,983 \"compositions pénales\".\n\nLesser offenses called \"contraventions\" are judged by the \"tribunal de police\" or the \"juridiction de proximité\". More serious wrongdoing such as felonies (\"crimes\") are judged by the \"cour d'assises\".\n\nIn terms of judicial organisation, the correctional tribunal is one of the chambers of the \"tribunal de grande instance\". At the largest of these tribunals, several chambers may hear penal matters. Such tribunals number the chambers to distinguish them, and they are referred to as the \"nth\" correctional chamber or the \"nth\" chamber of the correctional tribunal.\n\nThe jurisdiction of a court such as the correctional tribunal is determined either by:\nJurisdiction is the first question to be determined by the \"tribunal correctionnel\" when a matter commes before it, so that it knows whether to proceed. If it cannot, it must \"relever son incompétence\" file a finding of nul jurisdiction (\"exception d'incompétence\").\n\nIn France, the correctional tribunal is the penal jurisdiction of first instance, competent to judge misdemeanors (delits). In \"premier ressort\", it judges matters that concern the commission of a criminal offence (\"infraction pénale\") considered a \"délit\", similar in severity to a misdemeanor. In French law a misdemeanor is an offense punished by a prison sentence (peine d'emprisonnement) or by a fine of at least 3750 euros. The law sets ten years as the maximum length of a prison sentence for a correctional infraction.\n\nThe correctional tribunal is not competent to judge:\nBeyond these, the correctional tribunal is competent to judge any other person who has reached the age of majority and has committed an offense. Its competence extends to co-authors and accomplices, assuming they too have also reached the age of majority. So for example two thieves who acted in concert, are co-authors of the theft, and any sponsor or silent partner is an accomplice by instigation. The three would judged together by the same correctional tribunal assuming they were all adults. If one were a minor, his situation can only be determined by a juvenile court. Any proceedings that concern him will be severed from the correctional tribunal case and take place only within the framework of the juvenile courts. So in some cases a matter might be examined by two different tribunals.\n\nTerritorial compétence is defined with respect to:\nAt least one of these five locations must be located within the territorial limits of the tribunal de grande instance for the correctional tribunal to be competent to judge the relevant infraction.\n\nSince its latest reform, (\"réforme\"), the French judicial map includes 177 correctional tribunals whose assigned territory is that of the \"tribunal de grande instance \"of \"première instance\".\n\nIf the correctional tribunal finds that at least one of the competence criteria is absent, it must declare its incompetence: this means that it must refuse to judge the matter. The exception of incompetence is an absolute of the public order, which means that even if all parties had agreed to \"chose\" the tribunal correctional despite the rules of competence the tribual has an obligation to declare itself incompetent.\n\nIf during a trial the correctional tribunal finds that the facts it is judging as a misdemeanor (délit) in fact amount to a crime, it must déclare itself incompétent and the matter referred to a \"juge d'instruction\", whose referral is mandatory in matters of crime.\n\nExceptions do exist to the exception of incompetence rule: a normally incompetent tribunal correctional can be brought to need to judge a matter that arise in another jurisdiction. When a matter is judged outside of the territorial jurisdiction it is called \"dépaysement\".\n\nFinally, law has come to recognize a practice of correctional tribunals, by fixing conditions where an act that can be characterized as a \"crime\", rape for example can be judged by the correctional tribunal as a lesser offense, such as sexual aggression rather than rape: this is called \"correctionnalisation\".\n\nIn some cases, notably good administration of justice, the matter must be judged in another territorial jurisdiction than the one prescribed \"ratione loci\" rules.\n\nFor reasons of public safety, where there is a risk of serious disturbance of the peace if the trial were held in the competent jurisdiction, the criminal chamber of the court of cassation can refer the matter to a different correctional tribunal. This request can only be made by the \"procureur général\" of the \"Cour de cassation,\" after he is informed of the difficulty.\n\nIn the interest of good administration of justice the criminal chamber of the court of cassation can also order the referral of a case to another tribunal than the one that is competent \"ratione loci\", either at the request of the public prosecutor of the \"Cour de cassation\", or of the prosector-general of the Court of Appeal in the jurisdiction where the jurisdiction in question has its seat, either on his own initiative or at the request of the parties. For example, if:\n\nthe \"procureur\" of the Court of Appeal that has jurisdiction over the particular correctional tribunal may, \"d'office\", at the request of the \"procureur\" of the \"tribunal correctionnel\" and at the application of interested parties, transfer the proceeding to the \"tribunal de grande instance\" closest to the jurisdiction of the court of appeal, which will then have jurisdiction in the case, \"par dérogation aux dispositions de compétence territoriale\".\n\nCases exist of material impossibility to hold the trial before the competent correctional tribunal. A referral may be ordered by the criminal chamber if the court that would normally have jurisdiction cannot be legally assembled or if the course of justice finds itself otherwise interrupted. A request for referral may be presented, either by the \"procureur général\" before the Court of cassation, or by the established \"ministère public\" before the jurisdiction in question.\n\nMore often, especially in smaller jurisdictions, if the normally competent jurisdiction cannot be composed because the incompatibilities exist that the law has provided for, the first president of the \"cour d'appel\" can order the matter sent back to a neighboring jurisdiction situated in the scope of that court and designated by a special ordinance passed every year by the first president of the court of appeal indicating for each of its jurisdictions the jurisdiction to which procedures may be sent for this reason.\n\nA lack of means in the cours d'assises in France allows some defendants to be judged by the correctional tribunal after committing a crime. This is termed \"correctionnalisation\". While illegal, the arrangement often suits both parties; the prosecutor or examining magistrate increases the likelihood of a shorter and simpler trial, while the defendant sees his crime downgraded to a simple misdemeanor-like \"délit\".\n\nA French correctional tribunal is composed of:\n\nFor the tribunal to sit with one judge only, \"à juge unique\", the possible penalty must be less than five years imprisonment and the matter must concern \"délits\" specified by the \"Code de procédure pénale\" as traffic offenses (driving while intoxicated for example), or violence resulting in more than eight days of inability to work (\"incapacité Totale de travail (I.T.T.)\") with only one aggravating circumstance. These cases are provided by Article 398-1 of the \"Code de procédure pénale\". Paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same article outline some exceptions having to do with provisional detention and procedure for immediate appearance. In cases of the wrong judge (? -t) article 398-2 provides for a return to the collegial formation because the jurisdictional rules are d'ordre public. Usually, it is the \"président de la formation collégiale\" who rules \"à juge unique\".\n\nSometimes there may be more than three judges if the arguments are expected to be lengthy. One or more additional judges may then attend, because the rule holds that one can only be judged by judges who have heard the arguments. This may pose a problem if one of the judges becomes ill, for example. Only three judges will deliberate the matter, however, regardless of the number who heard it.\n\nThe arguments are normally held in public, in open court. If publicity would endanger the order and serenity of the arguments, the dignity of the person or the interests of a third party, the plaintiff or the \"procureur\" may at their option request a closed session. This decision will be publicly rendered. (verify:decision to close? )\n\nThe president of the tribunal may prohibit the presence of minors, or of certain minors. He can expel any person who disturbs the arguments, including the defendant.\n\nThe procedure before a correctional tribunal unfolds in the following order: \nAfter the arguments the prosecutor presents the government's demand for a sentence (\"réquisitoire oral\"). He summarizes the elements of culpability and may advocate a penalty for the defendant. His proposal does not obligate the tribunal; it is an opinion in consultation, given the same weight as the argument of the defense attorney.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4341942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4341942", "title": "UK–US extradition treaty of 2003", "text": "UK–US extradition treaty of 2003\n\nControversy surrounds the UK–US extradition treaty of 2003, which was implemented by the UK in the Extradition Act 2003 and came into force in April 2007 following its ratification by the US Senate in 2006.\n\nThe treaty has been claimed to be one-sided because it allows the US to extradite UK citizens and others for offences committed against US law, even though the alleged offence may have been committed in the UK by a person living and working in the UK (see for example the NatWest Three), and there being no reciprocal right; and issues about the level of proof required being less to extradite from the UK to the US rather than vice versa.\n\nAmong other provisions Part 2 of the Act: Extradition to category 2 territories (non-European Arrest warrant territories) removed the requirement on the USA to provide \"prima facie\" evidence in extraditions from the UK, requiring instead only \"reasonable suspicion\". This was necessary to redress the previous imbalance against the USA under the 1870 Act, as the UK did not have to provide the more onerous \"prima facie\" evidence to extradite from the USA. The requirement for the UK is to show \"probable cause\". However, an independent legal review carried out by Sir Scott Baker found that \"there is no significant difference between the probable cause test and the reasonable suspicion test. There is no practical difference between the information submitted to and from the United States.\"\n\nThere is also concern at the loss of entitlement of UK citizens to legal aid for maintaining an adequate defence to criminal charges once they are extradited to US jurisdiction where costs are largely met by the defendant's private means. This has been a cause of controversy in cases where it has been perceived that the UK has suitable legislation for prosecuting offences domestically.\n\nThe manner of its implementation also caused concern because of alleged secrecy and minimal parliamentary scrutiny.\n\nIn response to these concerns, the Home Secretary Theresa May appointed The Rt Hon. Lord Justice Scott Baker to conduct an official review of the UK's extradition treaties, with the assistance of two independent extradition experts. The review was directed to address evidence standards and whether the US-UK Extradition Treaty is unbalanced. Sir Scott Baker's report was presented to the Home Secretary on September 30, 2011, and concluded that there is no substantial difference in evidence standards, that the treaty is balanced and that there is not \"any basis to conclude that extradition from the United Kingdom to the US \noperates unfairly or oppressively\" The review contradicts the findings of Parliament's Joint Committee on Human Rights (JCHR), which was intended to form part of the Government's full extradition review and which called for the Government to renegotiate the UK's extradition treaty with the United States to ensure British citizens get the same protection as Americans.\n\nThe Home Affairs Select Committee recently published a report into the UK/US extradition treaty and Extradition Act, acknowledging the low level of public confidence in the UK's extradition legislation. The Committee were particularly critical of the failure of the Home Office to publish the evidence that lies behind the Home Office-commissioned Scott Baker review – the only parliamentary review to conclude that the US/UK Treaty was not imbalanced.\nThe Committee has \"serious misgivings\" about some aspects of the US/UK arrangements but was at pains to recognise the importance of an effective extradition arrangement between the two countries.\nWith respect to the differing legal standards of evidence required in support of an extradition request, the Committee accepted that there was \"little or no distinction in practice between the 'probable cause' and 'reasonable suspicion' tests\".\nThe Committee further acknowledges that \"extradition imposes a significant burden on the accused\"\nOn the most controversial of issues – that of forum – that campaigners have long been seeking to have introduced in UK legislation, the committee delivers perhaps its strongest message to parliament: \"The Committee believes that it would be in the interests of justice for decisions about forum in cases where there is concurrent jurisdiction to be taken by a judge in open court, where the defendant will have the opportunity to put his case, rather than in private by prosecutors\". The Committee concludes by recognising that it proposes significant amendments to the current legislation given the loss of public confidence in the current system. The Committee urges the government \"to act with greater urgency\" to rectify the issues the report has identified.\n\nMany say that the issue of forum is the key reform that will help bring an end to ongoing and future injustices that they say have occurred under the Extradition Act 2003.\n\nIn April 2012 it was revealed in a Freedom of Information request to the UK Home Office that no US citizens have been extradited from the US to the UK under this treaty for crimes committed while the person was in the US.\n\nThe US-UK Extradition Treaty 2003 was first sent to the US Senate for approval in April 2004. But another component of the controversy noted above was a result of the delay of the US in ratifying it into US law. Baroness Scotland, UK Minister of State for the Criminal Justice System at the Home Office, travelled to the US on Thursday 13 July 2006 to address this problem. This move was prompted by political criticism of the Extradition Act 2003 within the UK and an opposition proposal to amend the Act in the House of Lords. It also coincided with public disquiet at the case of the NatWest Three who were extradited on the same date. This meant the NatWest three were extradited to the US under the US-UK Extradition Treaty 2003, even though that treaty had not been ratified in the US.\n\nOn 30 September 2006 the US Senate unanimously ratified the treaty. British Home Secretary John Reid said he was \"delighted\" that Baroness Scotland's visit to the US over the summer succeeded in getting Senate agreement.\n\nRatification had been slowed by complaints from some Irish-American groups that the treaty would create new legal jeopardy for PIRA terrorists who fled to the USA in the 1980s and their American supporters.\n\nFrom January 2004 to the end of December 2011, 7 known US citizens were extradited from the US to the UK. No US citizen was extradited for an alleged crime while the person was based in the US. The U.S. embassy in London reports that, as of April 2013, 38 individuals have been extradited from the US to the UK.\n\nFrom January 2004 to the end of December 2011, 33 known UK citizens (including 6 with dual nationality) were extradited from the UK to the US. The U.S. embassy in London reports that, as of April 2013, 77 individuals have been extradited from the UK to the US. The U.S. has argued that this is not disproportionate, due to the US population being about five times larger than the UK population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1111039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1111039", "title": "Ukrainian presidential election, 2004", "text": "Ukrainian presidential election, 2004\n\nThe Ukrainian presidential election, 2004 was held on October 31, November 21 and December 26, 2004. The election was the fourth presidential election to take place in Ukraine following independence from the Soviet Union. The last stages of the election were contested between the opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko and the incumbent Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych from the Party of Regions. The election was held in a highly charged political atmosphere, with allegations of media bias, voter intimidation and a poisoning of candidate Yushchenko with dioxin.\n\nAccording to Ukraine's electoral law, a two-round system is used to elect the President in which a candidate must win a majority (50% or more) of all ballots cast. The first round of voting was held on October 31, 2004. As no candidate had 50% or more of the votes cast a run-off ballot between the two-highest polling candidates, Viktor Yushchenko and Viktor Yanukovych, was held on November 21. According to official Central Election Commission results announced on November 23, the run-off election was won by Viktor Yanukovych. The election results were challenged by Viktor Yushchenko and his supporters with many international observers claiming that the election was rigged.\n\nThe subsequent events led to a political crisis in Ukraine, with widespread peaceful protesters, dubbed the \"Orange Revolution,\" calling for a re-run second round election. The Ukrainian Supreme Court annulled the official run-off results and ordered a repeat of second round ballot.\n\nThe final re-run ballot was held on December 26. Viktor Yushchenko was declared the winner with 52 percent of the vote to Yanukovych's 44 percent.\n\nInternational observers reported that the re-run ballot was considered overall fairer than the previous ballots.\n\nAll together 26 candidates had been nominated and participated in presidential elections.\n\nThe two main contenders in the election were the incumbent Prime Minister and government-supported candidate Viktor Yanukovych and opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko. Viktor Yanukovych, who was the Prime Minister since 2002, was supported by the outgoing President Leonid Kuchma, as well as by the Russian government and then president Vladimir Putin.\n\nViktor Yushchenko was portrayed as being more pro-Western and had received support of the European Union states and the United States.\n\nThe preliminary ballot of the 2004 presidential election was held on October 31, 2004. The official results recorded Viktor Yushchenko with 39.87 percent and Victor Yanukovych 39.32 percent of the votes cast. As no candidate had secured 50% or more votes required for outright victory, a run-off election was scheduled for November 21. Although a 75 percent turnout was recorded in the initial vote, observers reported many irregularities, particularly in the regions where Yushchenko's support was seen to be strongest. It was unclear how much of an impact this had on the result.\n\nA total of 28,035,184 voters participated in the first round of voting. Results of the preliminary vote were as follows:\n\nFollowing the November 21 run-off ballot, Ukraine's electoral commission declared Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych with 49.42% of the vote the winner with Viktor Yushchenko receiving 46.69% of the ballots cast. Observers for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) said the run-off vote \"did not meet international standards\" and U.S. senior election observer, Senator Richard Lugar, called it a \"concerted and forceful program of election day fraud\".\n\nThe geographic distribution of the votes showed a clear east-west division of Ukraine, which is rooted deeply in the country's history. The western and central parts roughly correspond with the former territories of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth in the 17th century. They are considered more pro-Western, with the population mostly Ukrainian-speaking and Ukrainian Greek Catholic (Uniate) in the west or Ukrainian Orthodox in the center, and have voted predominantly for Yushchenko. The heavy-industrialized eastern part, including the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, where the links with Russia and the Russian Orthodox Church are much stronger, and which contains many ethnic Russians, is a Yanukovych stronghold.\n\nBetween the two rounds of the election, dramatic increases in turnout were recorded in Yanukovych-supporting regions, while Yushchenko-supporting regions recorded the same turnout or lower than recorded in the first round. This effect was most marked in eastern Ukraine and especially in Yanukovych's stronghold of Donetsk Oblast, where a turnout of 98.5% was reportedly claimed—more than 40% up from the first round. In some districts, turnout was recorded to be more than 100% than the previous ballot, with one district reported by observers to have recorded a 127% turnout. According to election observers and post-election investigations, pro-Yanukovych activists traveled around the country and voted many times as absentees. Some groups dependent on government assistance, such as students, hospital patients and prisoners, were told to vote for the government candidate.\n\nMany other alleged irregularities were reported, including ballot stuffing, intimidation at voting booths and huge numbers of new voters appearing on the electoral rolls—in Donetsk alone, half a million more voters were registered for the runoff election. Yanukovych won all but one of the regions where significant increases in turnout were noted. It was later determined by the Ukrainian Supreme Court that this was in fact due to widespread falsification of the results.\n\nMany commentators saw the elections as being influenced by outside powers, notably the United States, the European Union and Russia, with the US and EU backing Yushchenko (Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, former National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski and Senator John McCain all visited Kiev, in official or private capacities ), and Russian president Vladimir Putin publicly backing Yanukovych. In the media the two candidates were contrasted, with Yushchenko representing both the pro-Western Kiev residents as well as the rural Ukrainians, whereas Yanukovych representing the Eastern, pro-Russian industrial laborers.\n\nMore specifically it was considered that a Yushchenko victory would represent a halt of Ukraine's integration with the rest of the Commonwealth of Independent States, and possibly a cancellation of the Common Economic Space between Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan that had already been agreed to by the Ukrainian parliament; he would instead be likely to increase attempts at further integration with Europe and a possible membership in the EU and NATO. Viktor Yanukovych had promised to make Russian an official language for Ukraine, as is also the case in other CIS member states Belarus, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.\n\nThe European Union made it clear that they would not recognize the results of the election. All 25 member countries of the EU summoned their ambassadors from Ukraine in order to register a sharp protest against what is seen as election fraud.\n\nThe European Union disputed the election process in Ukraine, with European Commission President José Manuel Barroso warning of consequences if there is no review of the election. During a meeting between Putin and EU officials in the Hague, the Russian president opposed the EU reaction by saying that he was \"deeply convinced that we have no moral right to push a big European state to any kind of massive disorder.\"\n\nAmong EU member states, Ukraine's western neighbors were most concerned. In Poland, Ukraine's largest western neighbor, politicians, the media and ordinary citizens enthusiastically supported Yushchenko and opposed the election fraud. Polish deputies to the European Parliament have called for giving Ukraine the prospect of future EU membership provided the country obeyed democratic standards. Western EU members are however more reluctant with the idea of Ukrainian membership in the EU, which results in Polish media accusing them of being more interested in the integration process with Turkey and maintaining good relations with Russia.\n\nOn November 25, former Ukrainian foreign minister and a close collaborator of Yushchenko, Borys Tarasyuk delivered a speech before the Polish Sejm, urging Poland not to recognize the election result and help solve the political crisis. On the same day former Polish President Lech Wałęsa went to Kiev to publicly express his support for Viktor Yushchenko. He was later followed by a number of Polish MPs from different parties.\n\nOn November 26 the President of Poland Aleksander Kwaśniewski arrived in Kiev, followed on the same day by the EU Minister for Foreign Affairs Javier Solana and the Lithuanian president Valdas Adamkus.\n\nThe United States government also decided not to recognize the election, and expressed dissatisfaction with the results; the outgoing US Secretary of State, Colin Powell, quite unequivocally stated that the result announced could not be accepted as legitimate by the United States. President George W. Bush and various members of Congress made statements disclosing their concern over the legitimacy of the polling. Prominent former Cold War hawk Zbigniew Brzezinski cast the election as an opposition to renewed Russian imperialism:\n\nU.S. Senators John McCain and Hillary Clinton jointly wrote a letter nominating Victor Yushchenko along with Georgian President Mikhail Saakashvili for the Nobel Peace Prize. The nomination was unsuccessful.\n\nRussia's President, Vladimir Putin congratulated Viktor Yanukovych, which was followed shortly afterward by Belorussian president Alexander Lukashenko, on his victory before election results were officially declared. CIS election observers praised the second round of the elections as \"legitimate and of a nature that reflected democratic standards\", a view in direct contradiction to other monitoring organizations such as the ENEMO, the Committee of Voters of Ukraine and the IEOM.\n\nProminent hardliners in Russia cast the election as opposition to renewed Western imperialism. Russian Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov, for example, blames the West for interfering in the situation in Ukraine in the run-up to the October 31 presidential election:\n\nOn November 28, Yuriy Luzhkov, the Mayor of Moscow, gave a speech denouncing the Ukrainian opposition, calling its members a \"sabbath of witches\" pretending to \"represent the whole of the nation.\" Russian newspapers have printed increasingly shrill warnings, with the Communist party paper \"Pravda\" claiming: \"NATO troops in Hungary and Poland are preparing to move, and Romanian and Slovakian military units have been put on alert. Ukrainian towns are in their sights.\"\n\nSeveral other CIS countries lined up with Russia in supporting Yanukovych. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko phoned Yanukovych to offer his own congratulations before the results had been officially declared. Kazakhstan's President Nursultan Nazarbayev wrote to Yanukovych that \"Your victory shows that the Ukrainian people have made a choice in favour of the unity of the nation, of democratic development and economic progress.\" The presidents of Kyrgyzstan (Askar Akayev) and of Uzbekistan (Islam Karimov) likewise sent their congratulations. However, later Karimov criticized Russia's involvement in the Ukrainian election, saying that \"Russia's excessive demonstration of its willingness to see a certain outcome in the vote has done more harm than good.\"\n\nIn contrast, the Georgian president Mikhail Saakashvili indicated his support for the supporters of Yushchenko, saying that \"What is happening in Ukraine today clearly attests to the importance of Georgia's example for the rest of the world.\" This was a reference to the Rose Revolution of late 2003. Indeed, Georgians have been highly visible in the demonstrations in Kiev and the flag of Georgia has been among those on display in the city's Independence Square, while Yushchenko himself held up a rose in a seeming reference to the Rose Revolution. Moldova's Foreign Ministry issued a statement late November 2004 that stated \"basic democratic principles were distorted\" and expressed regret that the poll \"lacked the objective criteria necessary for their recognition by both the citizens of Ukraine and the international community\".\n\nArmenia and Azerbaijan kept more cautious positions, supporting neither side but stressing the need for Ukrainian unity.\n\nOn December 2, one day before the Supreme Court ruled in favor of a repeat runoff ballot, President Kuchma visited Moscow to discuss the crisis with Russia's President Vladimir Putin. Putin supported Kuchma's position of desiring wholly new elections, rather than just a repeat of the second round.\n\nThe final results of the rerun ballot recorded Viktor Yushchenko receiving 52.00% of the votes, with Viktor Yanukovych on 44.19% which represented a change in the vote by +5.39% to Yushchenko and -5.27% from Yanukovych.\n\nViktor Yanukovych conceded defeat on December 31, 2004 and subsequently resigned as Ukraine's Prime Minister the same day. Despite Yushchenko's victory in the second round of voting, the regional voting patterns remained largely unchanged between each round, with many southern and eastern provinces supporting Yanukovych, with the west and central regions favoring Yushchenko.\n\nUkraine's supreme court rejected an appeal lodged by Viktor Yanukovych against the electoral commission's conduct of the election on January 6.\n\nOn January 10 the Ukrainian Electoral Commission officially declared Viktor Yushchenko the winner and on January 11 published the final election results, clearing the way for Yushchenko to be inaugurated as Ukraine's fifth President. The official ceremonies took place on Sunday, January 23 at about noon, when Yushchenko undertook the constitutional oath was sworn in as President.\n\nIn November 2009 Yanukovych stated that although his victory in the elections was \"taken away\" he gave up this victory in order to avoid bloodshed. \"I didn't want mothers to lose their children and wives their husbands. I didn't want dead bodies from Kiev to flow down the Dnipro. I didn't want to assume power through bloodshed.\"\n\nDespite alleged convincing evidence pointing to high-level involvement in the Kuchma administration and the Central Election Commission of Ukraine no criminal election fraud charges have been filed against any top officials. The prosecutor general did arrest several public figures on charges of election fraud in the first half of 2005, but no high-profile case was brought to court. On 23 September 2005 Yushchenko announced a pact with the Party of Regions in which he promised to look into an amnesty for those convicted of vote rigging during the 2004 Ukrainian presidential elections. One of the top election-fraud suspects, former CEC head Serhiy Kivalov, is a Party of Regions deputy who heads the Ukrainian Parliament's Judiciary Committee.\n\nDuring the 2010 presidential election-campaign Viktor Yanukovych pledged to prevent electoral fraud during those elections: \"We will properly respond to all provocations and attempts to fake election results\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22006357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22006357", "title": "Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act", "text": "Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act\n\nThe Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act (VGBA) is a United States law named after Graeme Baker, who died in an accident in June 2002, when the suction from a spa drain entrapped her under the water. She was the daughter of James and Nancy Baker and the granddaughter of former Secretary of State James Baker III. The Act was first introduced by Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz and was supported by the Baker family and Safe Kids Worldwide.\n\nConsumer Product Safety Commission staff began investigating reported incidents of swimming pool/spa suction entrapment incidents in the 1970s. Such incidents included entrapment of hair, body, limb, evisceration or disembowelment and mechanical entrapment of jewelry or bathing suits. From 1999 to 2007 for all age categories records were examined. In 2007, for all age categories, there were 74 reports of circulation entrapments. Individuals in the 5- to 9-year-old category had the highest frequency of entrapment reports.\n\nThe goals of the VGBA were to enhance the safety of public and private pools and spas, to reduce child drownings, to reduce the number of suction entrapment incidents, injuries and deaths; and to educate the public on the importance of constant supervision of children in and around water.\n\nThere is a federal requirement for public pools that preempts the state or local law, as of December 19, 2008, and further regulations are in addition to it:\n\n\"Sec. 1404: Top Priority for Public Pool And Spa Owners/Operators\"\nAll pool/spa drain covers manufactured, distributed or entered into commerce on or after December 19, 2008 must meet ASME/ANSI A112.19.8– 2007. All public pools and spas must be retrofitted with covers that meet the ASME/ANSI A112.19.8– 2007 standard. All public pools and spas that have a single drain other than an unblockable drain must employ one or more additional options.\n\nA pool contractor should verify that the pool and/or spa is in compliance with the federally mandated Virginia Graeme Baker Pool & Spa Safety Act which takes effect December 19, 2008. If the pool is not in compliance, the necessary steps should be taken to comply with the Virginia Graeme Baker Pool & Spa Safety Act, that, in essence, specifies that:\n\nIn addition, all public pools and spas with a single main drain other than an un-blockable drain, shall also employ one or more of the following devices: separated drain system per ANSI/APSP 7, safety vacuum release system (SVRS) that complies with ANSI/ASME A112.19.17 or ASTM F2387; suction-limiting vent system; gravity drainage system; automatic pump shutoff; drain disablement; equivalent system determined by the CPSC.\n\nThe definition of un-blockable drain in the Act is a \"drain sump of any size or shape that a human body cannot sufficiently block to create a suction entrapment issue.\"\n\nLink to the Act: Title XIV—Pool and Spa Safety Act\n\nThe VGBA requires all drain covers to either be manufactured products or to be field fabricated outlets\", in each case meeting the specific technical requirements of the act and having the necessary certification.\n\nThe PSSA requires a safe and secure connection between the cover and sump. A new, compliant cover that fits securely into a pre-existing sump is accepted under certain conditions.\n\nThese are used in conjunction with an approved main drain cover and skimmer. They come in three main varieties:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43602", "title": "Wassenaar Arrangement", "text": "Wassenaar Arrangement\n\nThe Wassenaar Arrangement on Export Controls for Conventional Arms and Dual-Use Goods and Technologies is a multilateral export control regime (MECR) with 42 participating states including many former Comecon (Warsaw Pact) countries.\n\nThe Wassenaar Arrangement was established to contribute to regional and international security and stability by promoting transparency and greater responsibility in transfers of conventional arms and dual-use goods and technologies, thus preventing destabilizing accumulations. Participating states seek, through their national policies, to ensure that transfers of these items do not contribute to the development or enhancement of military capabilities which undermine these goals, and are not diverted to support such capabilities.\n\nIt is the successor to the Cold War-era Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls, and was established on 12 July 1996, in Wassenaar, the Netherlands, which is near The Hague. The Wassenaar Arrangement is considerably less strict than COCOM, focusing primarily on the transparency of national export control regimes and not granting veto power to individual members over organizational decisions. A Secretariat for administering the agreement is located in Vienna, Austria. Like COCOM, however, it is not a treaty, and therefore is not legally binding.\n\nEvery six months member countries exchange information on deliveries of conventional arms to non-Wassenaar members that fall under eight broad weapons categories: battle tanks, armoured fighting vehicles (AFVs), large-caliber artillery, military aircraft, military helicopters, warships, missiles or missile systems, and small arms and light weapons.\n\nThe outline of the arrangement is set out in a document entitled \"Guidelines & Procedures, including the Initial Elements\". The list of restricted technologies is broken into two parts, the \"List of Dual-Use Goods and Technologies\" (also known as the \"Basic List\") and the \"Munitions List\". The Basic List is composed of ten categories based on increasing levels of sophistication:\n\n\nBasic List has two nested subsections—Sensitive and Very Sensitive. Items of the Very Sensitive List include materials for stealth technology—i.e., equipment that could be used for submarine detection, advanced radar, and jet engine technologies.\n\nThe Munitions List has 22 categories, which are not labeled.\n\nIn order for an item to be placed on the lists, Member States must take into account the following \ncriteria:\n\n, the 42 participating states are: \n\nAdmission requires states to:\n\nThe People's Republic of China and Israel are not members. The Arrangement is open on a global and non-discriminatory basis to prospective adherents that comply with the agreed criteria. Admission of new members requires the consensus of all members. \n\nIndia joined as the 42nd participating state on 07 December 2017. \"Wassenaar Arrangement participating states reviewed the progress of a number of current membership applications and agreed at the plenary meeting to admit India which will become the Arrangement's 42nd participating state as soon as the necessary procedural arrangements for joining the WA are completed,\" the grouping said in a statement. India's application was supported by Russia, USA, France and Germany.\n\nIn December 2013, the list of export restricted technologies was amended to include internet-based surveillance systems. New technologies placed under the export control regime include \"intrusion software\"—software designed to defeat a computer or network's protective measures so as to extract data or information—as well as IP network surveillance systems. \n\nThe purpose of the amendments was to prevent Western technology companies from selling surveillance technology to governments known to abuse human rights. However, some technology companies have expressed concerns that the scope of the controls may be too broad, limiting security researchers' ability to identify and correct security vulnerabilities. Google and Facebook criticized the agreement for the restrictions it will place on activities like penetration testing, sharing information about threats, and bug bounty programs. They argue that the restrictions will weaken the security of participating nations and do little to curb threats from non-participant nations.\n\n\n"}
