{"id": "17582389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17582389", "title": "55 Water Street", "text": "55 Water Street\n\n55 Water Street is a skyscraper in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan, New York City, on the East River. The 53-story, structure was completed in 1972. Emery Roth & Sons designed the building, which is tied with 277 Park Avenue as the 40th-tallest building in New York City. When it was completed it was the largest office building in the world, and is still the largest in New York by floor area. In an arrangement with the Office of Lower Manhattan Development, it was built on a superblock created from four adjoining city blocks, suppressing the western part of Front Street.\n\nIts closest competitors in square footage are the Met Life Building at and 111 Eighth Avenue at . One World Trade Center has roughly the same square footage (3.5 million square feet). The now-destroyed World Trade Center was bigger when it opened in 1973.\n\nOn the north side of the tower is a 15-story wing with a sloping facade and terraces facing the river. The largest terrace forms a privately owned public space known as the \"Elevated Acre\", about 30 feet above street level and accessible via escalator and stairs from the sidewalk on Water Street. The creation of public space allowed the developers to increase the total square footage of 55 Water Street beyond what zoning regulations would otherwise have allowed on the site. The Elevated Acre was originally planned as part of a series of high-level public spaces along East River, to be connected with walkways running above the street level. The Elevated Acre is available for rental as a venue for special events and weddings and during the summer months occasionally hosts free movie screenings open to the community. The original plaza was designed by M. Paul Friedberg & Associates, and had the same red brick tiles as his Jeannette Park to the south of the tower. In early 2001, Goldman Sachs briefly considered leasing space in 55 Water Street and proposed building a 13-story, 240-foot addition on the plaza site which would have included seven large trading floors. The plan also proposed adding 35 feet to the north tower. To compensate for the loss of public space, Goldman Sachs proposed paying for various improvements of public space nearby. The plans were quickly dropped and Goldman Sachs cited economic conditions as the reason although some neighborhood residents had begun to voice opposition. The building, its plazas and Jeannette Park have been renovated and redesigned by Lee S. Jablin of Harman Jablin Architects. The Elevated Acre was renovated in 2005 by Rogers Marvel Architects and Ken Smith Landscape Architects.\n\n55 Water Street was the last major building built by Uris Buildings Corporation.\n\nFrom 1973 to 1983, the Whitney Museum of American Art maintained a branch museum in the building; space was rented for a token fee and the operating cost was paid for by several Wall Street corporations.\n\nSince 1993, the building has been owned by Retirement Systems of Alabama who acquired it from Olympia & York.\n\nOn October 29, 2012, the building was among many along the Lower Manhattan waterfront that sustained damage related to Hurricane Sandy when over of water flooded three underground levels and rose to waist-high in the lobby. On November 23, 2012, while repairs were being conducted a fire caused injuries to 27 people—mostly those working on the lower levels. To prepare for future storms the building's owner plans to relocate electrical equipment from the basement to the third floor starting in late 2013. A flood control infrastructure was also installed around the perimeter of the building to mitigate any flooding should a storm of similar magnitude effect the location in the future.\n\nThe building is the headquarters of EmblemHealth. HIP Health Plan of New York, which became a part of EmblemHealth, moved there with 2,000 employees in October 2004. It was the largest corporate relocation in downtown Manhattan following the September 11 attacks. Standard & Poor's, a corporate rating agency, FXCM, a forex broker and the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation are also headquartered in the building. The New York City Department of Transportation also has offices in the building.\n\nMcGraw Hill Financial, parent of Standard & Poor's, moved its headquarters from its namesake building to 55 Water Street in June 2015.\n\nHugo Boss moved its North American headquarters to the Financial District in 2015, leaving RXR Realty’s Starrett-Lehigh Building at 601 West 26th Street.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8899989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8899989", "title": "Alexander Lebedev", "text": "Alexander Lebedev\n\nAlexander Yevgenievich Lebedev (; born 16 December 1959) is a Russian businessman, referred to as one of the Russian oligarchs.\n\nIn early 2008, he was one of the golden 100 top Russian billionaires listed as the 39th richest Russian worth an estimated US$3.1 billion by \"Forbes\" magazine, but by October 2008 he was worth only $300 million. In March 2012, he was listed by \"Forbes\" magazine as one of the richest Russians with an estimated fortune of US$1.1 billion. His fortune has since declined, and he is no longer considered to be a billionaire. He is part owner of the Russian newspaper \"Novaya Gazeta\" and owner of two UK newspapers with son Evgeny Lebedev: the \"London Evening Standard\" and \"The Independent\".\n\nAlexander Lebedev was born in Moscow. His parents were part of the Moscow intelligentsia. His father, Yevgeny Nikolaevich Lebedev, was an elite athlete–a member of the Soviet national water polo team, and later a professor at the Bauman Moscow State Technical University, Moscow's highest technical school. After graduating from Moscow Pedagogic Institute, Alexander's mother, Maria Sergeyevna, worked in a rural Sakhalin school and later taught English in a Moscow tertiary school.\n\nIn 1977, Alexander Lebedev entered the Department of Economics at Moscow State Institute of International Relations. After he graduated in 1982, Lebedev started work at the Institute of Economics of the World Socialist System doing research for his Kandidat (between master's degree and doctorate) dissertation, \"The problems of debt and the challenges of globalization\". He transferred to the First Chief Directorate (Foreign Intelligence) of KGB. According to \"The Sunday Times\", as a KGB spy, he was based at the Russian embassy in London during the 1980s. He worked for the KGB's successor, the Foreign Intelligence Service, until 1992. Lebedev had the diplomatic cover of an economics attaché. According to his personal website, Lebedev's assignments included fighting capital flight from the Russian Federation.\n\nUpon leaving the Russian intelligence community, Lebedev set up his first company, the Russian Investment-Finance Company. In 1995 this bought the National Reserve Bank, a small Russian bank which was in trouble at the time. The bank subsequently grew rapidly to become one of Russia's largest banks. It and the Alfa-Bank were the only two out of the ten biggest Russian banks to survive the 1998 Russian financial crisis. Among the bank's assets are:\nThe bank is the core of the group of companies holding National Reserve Corporation, that according to Lebedev's personal site owns around US$2 billion of assets. In March 2006, \"Forbes\" estimates Lebedev's fortune as high as US$3.5 billion, but as of July 2013 he dropped out of the billionaires list and is no longer considered to be a billionaire.\n\nThe National Reserve Corporation included the National Land Company (the biggest potato producer in Russia), National Housing Corporation (construction of affordable houses), National Mortgage Company (Национальная Ипотечная Компания), as well as interests in textiles, telecommunications, trams and trolleybuses, electrical power, chemical and tourist industries owning a large hotel network in Crimea and plan to create the National Reserve Park that will manage diverse tourist enterprises in Russia, Ukraine and France.\n\nLebedev used to own the \"Moskovski Korrespondent\", but according to Channel 4's \"Dispatches\" programme, Lebedev closed it down \"for political reasons after it published a spurious article about Vladimir Putin having an affair with an Olympic gymnast half his age\".\n\nOn 21 January 2009, Lebedev and his company Evening Press Corporation (UK), part of Lebedev Holdings, bought approximately a 75.1% of share in the \"Evening Standard\" newspaper for £1. The previous owners, the Daily Mail and General Trust, continue to hold 24.9% in the company in the new firm, named Evening Standard Ltd. Lebedev promised to not interfere with the editorial running of the paper. Lebedev commented that during his time as a spy in London, he used the \"Evening Standard\" to find information. Paul Dacre, the editor-in-chief of the \"Evening Standard\" at the time of the sale said: \"It's a very sad day for the paper, it's a very sad day for the Rothermeres. We are very sorry that it leaked out, we had no control over that. Everyone's been working very hard and there's a lot of hope for the future of the \"Evening Standard\".\"\n\nIn 2009 he entered into exclusive negotiations with Independent News & Media to buy the company's British national newspapers, \"The Independent\" and \"Independent on Sunday\". Before the purchase was completed, his representatives offered the editorship of \"The Independent\" to Rod Liddle, former editor of BBC Radio 4's \"Today\" Programme. The offer was withdrawn after Liddle's putative appointment was opposed by the newspaper's staff and by a campaign online. On 25 March 2010, Lebedev bought \"The Independent\" and \"Independent on Sunday\" for £1.\n\nIn 2012, National Reserve Bank (NRB) faced difficulties: corporate deposits decreased by 2.2bn rubles, retail deposits by 1.2bn rubles. 20% of the bank's liabilities had run off by the end of January 2012. In March 2012, two top managers left the bank.\n\nOn 5 November 2012, Lebedev announced he would close all the regional offices of the National Reserve Bank and sell off the real estate as well as 75% of the bank's loan portfolio, worth 16.8bn rubles ($542m). Also in November 2012, Lebedev announced that he is selling off his assets in Russia.\n\nIn September 2011 while appearing on a Russian television programme, he punched a fellow guest, billionaire property developer Sergei Polonsky (). Lebedev claimed afterwards that he had reacted to Polonsky's threat of violence towards him. Lebedev was later charged with hooliganism and sentenced to community service for that incident.\n\nIn 2003, Lebedev stood as a candidate for elections to the Mayoralty of Moscow and the State Duma. He received 13% in the Mayoral elections, losing to Yuriy Luzhkov, but won a seat in the State Duma on the Rodina party list (he was actually number one on the Moscow regional list of the party). He remained in the Duma until 2007, when new elections were held. In the Duma, he initially moved from nationalist Rodina to the pro-Government United Russia fraction, but after Rodina was merged into the larger social-democratic coalition Fair Russia, he made his return.\n\nLebedev was formerly the Vice Chairman of Duma's committee on the Commonwealth of Independent States, the coordinator of Duma's group on interactions with Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, and the coordinator of the State Duma group dealing with the city.\n\nLebedev, together with the former President of the Soviet Union, Mikhail Gorbachev, is the owner of 49% of \"Novaya Gazeta\", one of the most vocal newspapers critical of the current Russian Government.\n\nAfter the assassination of a prominent \"Novaya Gazeta\" journalist Anna Politkovskaya, Lebedev praised in print the talents of Politkovskaya and suggested her assassins were actually trying to target the good names of her opponents. He pledged 25 million Russian rubles (around US$1 million) for the information leading to the arrest of the assassins.\n\nLebedev is a founder and the President of the National Investment Council, a non-political and non-government organization working to improve the investment sentiments in Russia, protecting interests of the Russian business abroad, and fighting the negative sentiments towards Russian business.\n\nIn September 2008, Russian politician Mikhail Gorbachev announced he was going to make a comeback to Russian politics along with Lebedev. Their party was called the Independent Democratic Party of Russia.\n\nIn March 2009, Lebedev announced that he would be running for mayor of Sochi, host of the 2014 Winter Olympics, but a court ruling declared his candidacy invalid on 13 April 2009. The court ruling was a result of a complaint by another candidate, Vladimir Turukhanovsky, that Lebedev's campaign received three donations from minors that is forbidden by Russian electoral law. According to the chief of Lebedev's electoral campaign, Artyom Artyomov, the three teenagers were led to Sberbank by a staff member of the Sochi council, given 500 rubles each (approximately $20), and told to donate the money to Lebedev's campaign. His campaigners sent the money back the same day, it was received but still it was found sufficient to disqualify his candidacy. Lebedev said that he intended to appeal the court's decision.\n\nLebedev has a long history of supporting culture and charity, and created an organization named Charitable Reserve Fund (Благотворительный Резервный Фонд, BRF) to bring order to these activities. Among the organizations and projects he (or BRF) have sponsored are:\n\nIn October 2008, Lebedev met with Tom Stoppard, John Malkovich, and Kevin Spacey to discuss a new Chekhov festival in Crimea, Ukraine.\n\nLebedev was awarded the Saint Innokenty of Moscow Order by the Russian Orthodox Church and the \"Dialogue of Cultures\" medal by UNESCO.\n\nLebedev's first wife was Natalia Vladimirovna Sokolova, daughter of the scientist Vladimir Sokolov, with whom he has one child, Evgeny Lebedev. They separated in 1998.\n\nLebedev's second wife is Elena Perminova, a former model, with whom he has three children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2881064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2881064", "title": "Antera Duke", "text": "Antera Duke\n\nAntera Duke (alive as late as 1788) was an 18th-century African slave dealer and Efik chief from Calabar in eastern Nigeria (now in Cross River State). His diary, written in Nigerian Pidgin English, was discovered in Scotland and published. This diary records his interactions with British merchants to whom he sold slaves; he writes about wearing \"white man trousers\" and entertaining the merchants he traded with.\n\n"}
{"id": "26118464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26118464", "title": "Antonio Marcegaglia", "text": "Antonio Marcegaglia\n\nAntonio Marcegaglia (born in Mantua on 12 December 1963) is an Italian managing director, Chairman and CEO of Marcegaglia; the leading industrial group in steel manufacturing.\n\nAntonio Marcegaglia obtained an honours degree in business studies from Milan’s Luigi Bocconi University in 1987 and joined the Marcegaglia full-time a few days later. He forged an indissoluble bond between his personal career and the growth of this fine mid-sized Italian company of those days, later transforming it into today’s major global player.\n\nLed by Antonio Marcegaglia, the diversification of the group was then extended with the establishment of Bioindustrie Mantovane and the acquisition of Oskar of Osteria Grande (Bologna), Nuova Omec, Ennepi of Lugo di Romagna (Ravenna) and Imat of Fontanafredda (Pordenone) in 1988 and of CCT of Gallarate (Varese) and Elet.Ca of Capalle (Florence) in 1989, as well as the foundation in 1989 of Marcegaglia Impianti of Saronno (Varese). In the same year, Marcegaglia acquired holdings in Fergallo of Motteggiana (Mantua), SIM of Sant'Atto (Teramo) and Elletre of Montebello Vicentino (Vicenza). In 1991 the Group acquired Resco Tubi of Cusago (Milan) and OMF of Fiume Veneto (Pordenone). In 1994 it acquired Brollo Profilati of Desio (Milan), later moved to the “former Breda” area just outside Milan, on a site totalling 8 hectares purchased in 1996, and then in 1995 ETA Euro Tubi Acciaio of Milan, followed by a stake in Allu's of Sesto al Reghena (Pordenone).\n\nThe new business and production constellation enabled the group to have a presence also in the sectors of metal household items, electrostatic paint for metals and metal components for the electrical appliance industry. Meanwhile, its metallurgical sector grew with the production of fine stainless steel tubes and cold-rolled profiles.\n\nIn 1996, the Euro Energy Group was also established in order to create plants for the production of energy from renewable sources. In January 1997 Nuova Forsidera Spa, specialising in steel cold rolling and galvanising processes, was acquired with its plants in Corsico (Milan) and Albignasego (Padua).\n\nThe group’s energy division was expanded in 1997 under the guidance of Antonio Marcegaglia with the establishment of Green Power, for the development of strategies and systems for energy generation through the gasification of waste and biomass. Further expansion came in 1998, with the creation of Boiler Expertise to design and construct the industrial and power boilers.\n\nIn that same year came the acquisition of Astra of Mezzolara, Budrio (Bologna), and the Siderplating establishment was also acquired, under the name of Marcegaglia San Giorgio of Nogaro (Udine), producing rolling mill plates.\n\nAntonio Marcegaglia’s corporate development programme continued in 1999 with the acquisition of Morteo Nord of Pozzolo Formigaro (Alessandria), and Ponteggi Dalmine of Milan, Graffignana (Lodi) and Potenza.\n\nThis was followed in 2001 by the acquisition, in the tourism sector, of the holiday resort of Pugnochiuso, situated on the Gargano promontory in Apulia.\n\nIn December 2001, following an investment of over 500 million euros over very few years, a large new centre of production was opened in Ravenna, the second largest iron and steel centre in Italy. And in 2002, in the former Belleli area in Taranto, its second largest production plant in the South, after the one in Potenza, entered into operation\n\nIn 2003, the sector of products for the household electrical appliance industry expanded further with the acquisition of BVB of San Lorenzo in Campo (Pesaro). While in 2004 the group took a fundamental step in the development of its activities in the tourism sector by acquiring, with Banca Intesa and the Ifil group, 49% of Sviluppo Italia Turismo\n\nIn 2007 Antonio Marcegaglia acquired the stake in Gabetti Property Solutions and upgraded the Ravenna plant with a further investment of 300 million euros. The Group continued its expansion in the energy sector where, with its subsidiary Arendi, began production of photovoltaic panels. Likewise, its presence in tourism grew further with the acquisition of the management of Forte Village of Santa Margherita di Pula, in Sardinia, the largest hotel complex in Italy and Europe. This was followed soon after by the “Le Tonnare” holiday resort in Stintino, in the province of Sassari. In 2007 the production plant at Boltiere (Bergamo) was also enlarged. In 2008 the Group acquired the holiday location at Castel Monastero di Castelnuovo Berardenga (Siena) and the \"Former Arsenale\" property complex at La Maddalena (Sassari).\n\nSince 2017, following the assignment of the Ilva Group to AM Investco (the joint-venture consisting of ArcelorMittal and Marcegaglia), Antonio Marcegaglia has been promoting the relaunch of this great European steelworks asset. The objective is to strengthen its position as a market leader and to increase the company’s market share in the European and World iron and steel works industry.\n\nIn 1989, Antonio Marcegaglia launched the Marcegaglia Group’s internationalisation policy which has strengthened its direct presence in the international markets.\n\nMarcegaglia Deutschland of Düsseldorf was established in 1989 for the distribution of the Group’s own products on the German market and in Scandinavia. United Stainless Steel was also created in the UK near London, followed by Marcegaglia U.K., for the production of welded tubes from hot and cold rolled strip, and then by Marcegaglia UK at Dudley, West Midlands.\n\nIn 1991 Antonio Marcegaglia launched the project which would see the group enter into the transatlantic markets. In the second half of the year The New Bishop Tube of Philadelphia was acquired in the US, and, in February 1992, Damascus of Greenville. Two major production units which then led to the creation of Damascus-Bishop Tube Company, specialising in the production of stainless steel.\n\nIn 1993 Antonio Marcegaglia acquired the Belgian Cotubel group, a distributor of stainless steel products and tubes in France and Benelux, and founded the trading company Central Bright Steel for the distribution of welded tubes in the UK; it also began production of these same products near Birmingham in 1997.\n\nIn the summer of 1998, a large industrial area in Munhall, near Pittsburgh, was acquired to accommodate the new Marcegaglia USA, which would also incorporate the Damascus-Bishop Tube Company.\n\nDuring the same period, two other companies were formed in the United States, as subsidiaries of the parent companies in Italy: Oskar Usa in Birmingham (Alabama) and Oto Mills Usa in Wheaton (Illinois).\n\nIn 1999 Antonio Marcegaglia’s efforts led to the incorporation of Marcegaglia Iberica, Marcegaglia Ireland, Marcegaglia France, Marcegaglia Austria and Marcegaglia do Brasil, the latter tripling its turnover by 2005, extending its plant and taking the number of its employees to 1000. Meanwhile in Bremen, in joint venture with the Arbed Group, the first Marcegaglia company to produce quality steel was formed.\n\nIn 2000, the Group acquired Earcanal of Leioa, Spain. Following the joint venture with Arbed, in 2004 the Marcegaglia Group signed an agreement with the Corus group for the 10-year co-management of its British steelworks on Teesside, guaranteeing the supply at cost price of one million tonnes per year of slabs for the production of coils and sheets. Oto Mills do Brasil was founded in San Paolo in the same year.\n\nIn 2005 the Group proceeded with the expansion of Marcegaglia do Brasil, and in June Antonio Marcegaglia opened its fourth overseas production plant in Praszka (Poland), to manufacture tubes for refrigeration, panels and corrugated steel sheets. One year later, 20 kilometres away, the plant at Kluczbork was added, for the production of tubes and drawn products. Marcegaglia established Marcegaglia Gulf at Doha, Qatar in 2007. The expansion of its industrial activities continued in 2008 with its entry into China, where, in Yangzhou, 350 km north-west of Shanghai, it created its first Asian plant for the production of stainless steel tubes and high-precision carbon steel, with the establishment of Marcegaglia Romania at Cluj, and with the start of work on the new production plant at Vladimir, Russia.\n\nIn October 2013, following the passing of his father Steno, founder of the group, Antonio Marcegaglia is appointed Chairman of Marcegaglia group.\n\nAntonio Marcegaglia has been awarded Stainless Steel Executive of the Year 2010 at 9th Stainless & Special Steel Summit in Rome\n\n"}
{"id": "10153230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10153230", "title": "Ava Lowle Willing", "text": "Ava Lowle Willing\n\nAva Lowle Willing (September 15, 1868 – June 9, 1958) was an American socialite. She was the first wife of Colonel John Jacob Astor IV and later married Thomas Lister, 4th Baron Ribblesdale.\n\nAva Lowle Willing was born on September 15, 1868 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to Edward Shippen Willing (1822-1906) and Alice Bell Barton (1833-1903). She had three elder siblings: (1) Susan Ridgway Willing (1862-1940) who married on November 3, 1899, Francis Cooper Lawrence Jr. (1858-1904), they had no issue; (2) John Rhea Barton Willing (1864-1913) he died from pneumonia unmarried with no issue; and (3) Edward Shippen Willing Jr. (1867-1873) he died at age six.\n\nOn February 17, 1891, she married Colonel John Jacob \"Jack\" Astor IV (1864–1912), son of William Backhouse Astor, Jr. (1829–1892) and Caroline Webster \"Lina\" Schermerhorn (1830–1908), at her parents mansion at 510 South Broad Street in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. They went on a 5-week honeymoon in Europe. The newlywed couple was given, among many lavish gifts, a furnished townhouse on Fifth Avenue in New York City. Though the marriage was tumultuous, the Astors had two children:\nThe family lived in their New York townhouse at 840 Fifth Avenue, their 2,000 acre country estate, Ferncliff in Rhinebeck, New York, and Beechwood, their Newport, Rhode Island mansion. By 1896, Mrs. Ava Astor had become socially active in England. She had a country estate, Sutton Place in Guildford, Surrey, and a townhouse on Grosvenor Square in Mayfair, London.\n\nIn 1909, after returning from England, Ava sued Jack for divorce on November 19, and four months later on March 5, 1910, the State of New York decreed in her favor. She received a $10 million () settlement. Their son lived with his father before leaving to attend Harvard University. While Ava got custody of their seven-year-old daughter. While Vincent was in his second year at Harvard, Jack was on the maiden voyage of the RMS Titanic, and became one of the casualties while returning from his honeymoon with his new bride, Madeleine Talmage Force. This event left young Vincent as one of the wealthiest men in the United States.\n\nIn September 1911, Ava and her daughter moved to England. They lived in her townhouse on Grosvenor Square in Mayfair, London (from October–April) and her country estate, Sutton Place in Guildford, Surrey (from May–September).\n\nWhen World War I broke out, Ava became involved with the American Women's War Relief Fund and she served as the group's vice-president.\n\nOn June 3, 1919, Ava married Thomas Lister, 4th Baron Ribblesdale at St Mary's, Bryanston Square in London and she was known as Lady Ribblesdale. Lister died six years later on October 21, 1925, at their townhouse on Grosvenor Square in Mayfair, London. They had no children together and after Baron Ribblesdale's death, she did not remarry. He was buried in the Lister vault at St Mary the Virgin Churchyard in Gisburn, Lancashire.\n\nIn June 1940, she returned to the United States on the liner as a war refugee, reclaimed her American citizenship, and became known as Mrs. Ava Willing Ribblesdale.\n\nOn June 9, 1958, Ava died in her apartment at 720 Park Avenue in Manhattan, New York and she was buried in Trinity Church Cemetery. She left a token bequest of $25,000 to her son, Vincent, but the bulk of her $3,000,000 estate was left to her daughter Alice's four children: Prince Ivan Sergeyevich Obolensky, Princess Sylvia Sergeyevna Obolensky Guirey, Romana von Hofmannsthal McEwen, and Emily Edwina Harding.\n\n"}
{"id": "25968338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25968338", "title": "Channel check", "text": "Channel check\n\nIn financial analysis, a channel check is third-party research on a company's business based on collecting information from the distribution channels of the company. It may be conducted in order to value the company, to perform due diligence in various contexts, and the like. Industries where channel checks are more often conducted include retail, technology, commodities, etc.\n\nIt is a practice performed by third party researchers and financial analysts in order to collect information about a company’s business. The Channel Check process includes interviewing people within other organizations connected to the company’s supply and distribution channels. These interviews usually occur without the target company’s knowledge. For example, a channel check could include one or multiple conversations with a store manager to understand their targeted customer. Analysts generally look for top products, customer buying patterns and past performance.\n\nAnalysts could also contact one or several suppliers or vendors to obtain information about the targeted company. In these interviews analysts are looking for quantity of materials being demanded and prices. Suppliers could also help Analysts to see the “Bigger Picture” of a company’s production plans, new products and more. Suppliers may also give an indication of the raw material availability, finished product inventory levels, promotion plans to the Analysts.\n\nChannel checks can give insights complementary to balance sheet analysis, such as distributor and retailer attitudes towards a product and its competitors, seasonal and geographic variation, inventory levels (notably channel stuffing), and so on.\n\n"}
{"id": "666256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=666256", "title": "Competition law", "text": "Competition law\n\nCompetition law is a law that promotes or seeks to maintain market competition by regulating anti-competitive conduct by companies. Competition law is implemented through public and private enforcement. Competition law is known as \"antitrust law\" in the United States for historical reasons, and as \"anti-monopoly law\" in China and Russia. In previous years it has been known as trade practices law in the United Kingdom and Australia. In the European Union, it is referred to as both antitrust and competition law.\n\nThe history of competition law reaches back to the Roman Empire. The business practices of market traders, guilds and governments have always been subject to scrutiny, and sometimes severe sanctions. Since the 20th century, competition law has become global. The two largest and most influential systems of competition regulation are United States antitrust law and European Union competition law. National and regional competition authorities across the world have formed international support and enforcement networks.\n\nModern competition law has historically evolved on a country level to promote and maintain fair competition in markets principally within the territorial boundaries of nation-states. National competition law usually does not cover activity beyond territorial borders unless it has significant effects at nation-state level. Countries may allow for extraterritorial jurisdiction in competition cases based on so-called effects doctrine. The protection of international competition is governed by international competition agreements. In 1945, during the negotiations preceding the adoption of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in 1947, limited international competition obligations were proposed within the \"Charter for an International Trade Organisation\". These obligations were not included in GATT, but in 1994, with the conclusion of the Uruguay Round of GATT Multilateral Negotiations, the World Trade Organization (WTO) was created. The \"Agreement Establishing the WTO\" included a range of limited provisions on various cross-border competition issues on a sector specific basis.\n\nCompetition law, or antitrust law, has three main elements:\n\nSubstance and practice of competition law varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Protecting the interests of consumers (consumer welfare) and ensuring that entrepreneurs have an opportunity to compete in the market economy are often treated as important objectives. Competition law is closely connected with law on deregulation of access to markets, state aids and subsidies, the privatization of state owned assets and the establishment of independent sector regulators, among other market-oriented supply-side policies. In recent decades, competition law has been viewed as a way to provide better public services. Robert Bork argued that competition laws can produce adverse effects when they reduce competition by protecting inefficient competitors and when costs of legal intervention are greater than benefits for the consumers.\n\nAn early example was enacted during the Roman Republic around 50 BC. To protect the grain trade, heavy fines were imposed on anyone directly, deliberately, and insidiously stopping supply ships. Under Diocletian in 301 A.D., an edict imposed the death penalty for anyone violating a tariff system, for example by buying up, concealing, or contriving the scarcity of everyday goods. More legislation came under the constitution of Zeno of 483 A.D., which can be traced into Florentine municipal laws of 1322 and 1325. This provided for confiscation of property and banishment for any trade combination or joint action of monopolies private \"or\" granted by the Emperor. Zeno rescinded all previously granted exclusive rights. Justinian I subsequently introduced legislation to pay officials to manage state monopolies.\n\nLegislation in England to control monopolies and restrictive practices was in force well before the Norman Conquest. The Domesday Book recorded that \"foresteel\" (i.e. forestalling, the practice of buying up goods before they reach market and then inflating the prices) was one of three forfeitures that King Edward the Confessor could carry out through England. But concern for fair prices also led to attempts to directly regulate the market. Under Henry III an act was passed in 1266 to fix bread and ale prices in correspondence with grain prices laid down by the assizes. Penalties for breach included amercements, pillory and tumbrel. A 14th century statute labelled forestallers as \"oppressors of the poor and the community at large and enemies of the whole country\". Under King Edward III the Statute of Labourers of 1349 fixed wages of artificers and workmen and decreed that foodstuffs should be sold at reasonable prices. On top of existing penalties, the statute stated that overcharging merchants must pay the injured party double the sum he received, an idea that has been replicated in punitive treble damages under US antitrust law. Also under Edward III, the following statutory provision outlawed trade combination.\n\n... we have ordained and established, that no merchant or other shall make Confederacy, Conspiracy, Coin, Imagination, or Murmur, or Evil Device in any point that may turn to the Impeachment, Disturbance, Defeating or Decay of the said Staples, or of anything that to them pertaineth, or may pertain.\n\nIn continental Europe, competition principles developed in \"lex mercatoria\". Examples of legislation enshrining competition principles include the \"constitutiones juris metallici\" by Wenceslaus II of Bohemia between 1283 and 1305, condemning combination of ore traders increasing prices; the Municipal Statutes of Florence in 1322 and 1325 followed Zeno's legislation against state monopolies; and under Emperor Charles V in the Holy Roman Empire a law was passed \"to prevent losses resulting from monopolies and improper contracts which many merchants and artisans made in the Netherlands\". In 1553, Henry VIII of England reintroduced tariffs for foodstuffs, designed to stabilize prices, in the face of fluctuations in supply from overseas. So the legislation read here that whereas,\n\nit is very hard and difficult to put certain prices to any such things ... [it is necessary because] prices of such victuals be many times enhanced and raised by the Greedy Covetousness and Appetites of the Owners of such Victuals, by occasion of ingrossing and regrating the same, more than upon any reasonable or just ground or cause, to the great damage and impoverishing of the King's subjects.\n\nAround this time organizations representing various tradesmen and handicrafts people, known as guilds had been developing, and enjoyed many concessions and exemptions from the laws against monopolies. The privileges conferred were not abolished until the Municipal Corporations Act 1835.\n\nThe English common law of restraint of trade is the direct predecessor to modern competition law later developed in the US. It is based on the prohibition of agreements that ran counter to public policy, unless the reasonableness of an agreement could be shown. It effectively prohibited agreements designed to restrain another's trade. The 1414 \"Dyer's\" is the first known restrictive trade agreement to be examined under English common law. A dyer had given a bond not to exercise his trade in the same town as the plaintiff for six months but the plaintiff had promised nothing in return. On hearing the plaintiff's attempt to enforce this restraint, Hull J exclaimed, \"per Dieu, if the plaintiff were here, he should go to prison until he had paid a fine to the King\". The court denied the collection of a bond for the dyer's breach of agreement because the agreement was held to be a restriction on trade. English courts subsequently decided a range of cases which gradually developed competition related case law, which eventually were transformed into statute law.\nEurope around the 16th century was changing quickly. The new world had just been opened up, overseas trade and plunder was pouring wealth through the international economy and attitudes among businessmen were shifting. In 1561 a system of Industrial Monopoly Licenses, similar to modern patents had been introduced into England. But by the reign of Queen Elizabeth I, the system was reputedly much abused and used merely to preserve privileges, encouraging nothing new in the way of innovation or manufacture. In response English courts developed case law on restrictive business practices. The statute followed the unanimous decision in \"Darcy v. Allein\" 1602, also known as the Case of Monopolies, of the King's bench to declare void the sole right that Queen Elizabeth I had granted to Darcy to import playing cards into England. Darcy, an officer of the Queen's household, claimed damages for the defendant's infringement of this right. The court found the grant void and that three characteristics of monopoly were (1) price increases, (2) quality decrease, (3) the tendency to reduce artificers to idleness and beggary. This put an end to granted monopolies until King James I began to grant them again. In 1623 Parliament passed the Statute of Monopolies, which for the most part excluded patent rights from its prohibitions, as well as guilds. From King Charles I, through the civil war and to King Charles II, monopolies continued, especially useful for raising revenue. Then in 1684, in \"East India Company v. Sandys\" it was decided that exclusive rights to trade only outside the realm were legitimate, on the grounds that only large and powerful concerns could trade in the conditions prevailing overseas.\n\nThe development of early competition law in England and Europe progressed with the diffusion of writings such as \"The Wealth of Nations\" by Adam Smith, who first established the concept of the \"market economy\". At the same time industrialisation replaced the individual artisan, or group of artisans, with paid labourers and machine-based production. Commercial success increasingly dependent on maximising production while minimising cost. Therefore, the size of a company became increasingly important, and a number of European countries responded by enacting laws to regulate large companies which restricted trade. Following the French Revolution in 1789 the law of 14–17 June 1791 declared agreements by members of the same trade that fixed the price of an industry or labour as void, unconstitutional, and hostile to liberty. Similarly the Austrian Penal Code of 1852 established that \"agreements ... to raise the price of a commodity ... to the disadvantage of the public should be punished as misdemeanours\". Austria passed a law in 1870 abolishing the penalties, though such agreements remained void. However, in Germany laws clearly validated agreements between firms to raise prices. Throughout the 18th and 19th century, ideas that dominant private companies or legal monopolies could excessively restrict trade were further developed in Europe. However, as in the late 19th century, a depression spread through Europe, known as the Panic of 1873, ideas of competition lost favour, and it was felt that companies had to co-operate by forming cartels to withstand huge pressures on prices and profits.\n\nWhile the development of competition law stalled in Europe during the late 19th century, in 1889 Canada enacted what is considered the first competition statute of modern times. The \"Act for the Prevention and Suppression of Combinations formed in restraint of Trade\" was passed one year before the United States enacted the most famous legal statute on competition law, the Sherman Act of 1890. It was named after Senator John Sherman who argued that the Act \"does not announce a new principle of law, but applies old and well recognised principles of common law.\"\n\nThe Sherman Act of 1890 attempted to outlaw the restriction of competition by large companies, who co-operated with rivals to fix outputs, prices and market shares, initially through \"pools\" and later through \"trusts\". Trusts first appeared in the US railroads, where the capital requirement of railroad construction precluded competitive services in then scarcely settled territories. This trust allowed railroads to discriminate on rates imposed and services provided to consumers and businesses and to destroy potential competitors. Different trusts could be dominant in different industries. The Standard Oil Company trust in the 1880s controlled a number of markets, including the market in fuel oil, lead and whiskey. Vast numbers of citizens became sufficiently aware and publicly concerned about how the trusts negatively impacted them that the Act became a priority for both major parties. A primary concern of this act is that competitive markets themselves should provide the primary regulation of prices, outputs, interests and profits. Instead, the Act outlawed anticompetitive practices, codifying the common law restraint of trade doctrine. Prof Rudolph Peritz has argued that competition law in the United States has evolved around two sometimes conflicting concepts of competition: first that of individual liberty, free of government intervention, and second a fair competitive environment free of excessive economic power. Since the enactment of the Sherman Act enforcement of competition law has been based on various economic theories adopted by Government.\n\nSection 1 of the Sherman Act declared illegal \"every contract, in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations.\" Section 2 prohibits monopolies, or attempts and conspiracies to monopolize. Following the enactment in 1890 US court applies these principles to business and markets. Courts applied the Act without consistent economic analysis until 1914, when it was complemented by the Clayton Act which specifically prohibited exclusive dealing agreements, particularly tying agreements and interlocking directorates, and mergers achieved by purchasing stock. From 1915 onwards the \"rule of reason\" analysis was frequently applied by courts to competition cases. However, the period was characterized by the lack of competition law enforcement. From 1936 to 1972 courts' application of anti-trust law was dominated by the \"structure-conduct-performance\" paradigm of the Harvard School. From 1973 to 1991, the enforcement of anti-trust law was based on efficiency explanations as the Chicago School became dominant, and through legal writings such as Judge Robert Bork's book \"The Antitrust Paradox\". Since 1992 game theory has frequently been used in anti-trust cases.\n\nCompetition law gained new recognition in Europe in the inter-war years, with Germany enacting its first anti-cartel law in 1923 and Sweden and Norway adopting similar laws in 1925 and 1926 respectively. However, with the Great Depression of 1929 competition law disappeared from Europe and was revived following the Second World War when the United Kingdom and Germany, following pressure from the United States, became the first European countries to adopt fully fledged competition laws. At a regional level EU competition law has its origins in the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) agreement between France, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Germany in 1951 following the Second World War. The agreement aimed to prevent Germany from re-establishing dominance in the production of coal and steel as it was felt that this dominance had contributed to the outbreak of the war. Article 65 of the agreement banned cartels and article 66 made provisions for concentrations, or mergers, and the abuse of a dominant position by companies. This was the first time that competition law principles were included in a plurilateral regional agreement and established the trans-European model of competition law. In 1957 competition rules were included in the Treaty of Rome, also known as the EC Treaty, which established the European Economic Community (EEC). The Treaty of Rome established the enactment of competition law as one of the main aims of the EEC through the \"institution of a system ensuring that competition in the common market is not distorted.\" The two central provisions on EU competition law on companies were established in article 85, which prohibited anti-competitive agreements, subject to some exemptions, and article 86 prohibiting the abuse of dominant position. The treaty also established principles on competition law for member states, with article 90 covering public undertakings, and article 92 making provisions on state aid. Regulations on mergers were not included as member states could not establish consensus on the issue at the time.\n\nToday, the Treaty of Lisbon prohibits anti-competitive agreements in Article 101(1), including price fixing. According to Article 101(2) any such agreements are automatically void. Article 101(3) establishes exemptions, if the collusion is for distributional or technological innovation, gives consumers a \"fair share\" of the benefit and does not include unreasonable restraints that risk eliminating competition anywhere (or compliant with the general principle of European Union law of proportionality). Article 102 prohibits the abuse of dominant position, such as price discrimination and exclusive dealing. Article 102 allows the European Council regulations to govern mergers between firms (the current regulation is the Regulation 139/2004/EC). The general test is whether a concentration (i.e. merger or acquisition) with a community dimension (i.e. affects a number of EU member states) might significantly impede effective competition. Articles 106 and 107 provide that member state's right to deliver public services may not be obstructed, but that otherwise public enterprises must adhere to the same competition principles as companies. Article 107 lays down a general rule that the state may not aid or subsidize private parties in distortion of free competition and provides exemptions for charities, regional development objectives and in the event of a natural disaster.\n\nLeading ECJ cases on competition law include \"Consten & Grundig v Commission\" and \"United Brands v Commission\".\n\nIndia responded positively by opening up its economy by removing controls during the Economic liberalisation. In quest of increasing the efficiency of the nation's economy, the Government of India acknowledged the Liberalization Privatization Globalization era. As a result, Indian market faces competition from within and outside the country. This led to the need of a strong legislation to dispense justice in commercial matters and the Competition Act, 2002 was passed. The history of competition law in India dates back to the 1960s when the first competition law, namely the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act (MRTP) was enacted in 1969. But after the economic reforms in 1991, this legislation was found to be obsolete in many aspects and as a result, a new competition law in the form of the Competition Act, 2002 was enacted in 2003. The Competition Commission of India, is the quasi judicial body established for enforcing provisions of the Competition Act.\n\nBy 2008 111 countries had enacted competition laws, which is more than 50 percent of countries with a population exceeding 80,000 people. 81 of the 111 countries had adopted their competition laws in the past 20 years, signaling the spread of competition law following the collapse of the Soviet Union and the expansion of the European Union. Currently competition authorities of many states closely co-operate, on everyday basis, with foreign counterparts in their enforcement efforts, also in such key area as information / evidence sharing.\n\nIn many of Asia's developing countries, including India, Competition law is considered a tool to stimulate economic growth. In Korea and Japan, the competition law prevents certain forms of conglomerates. In addition, competition law has promoted fairness in China and Indonesia as well as international integration in Vietnam. Hong Kong's Competition Ordinance came into force in the year 2015.\n\nAs part of the creation of the ASEAN Economic Community, the member states of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) pledged to enact competition laws and policies by the end of 2015. Today, all ten member states have general competition legislation in place. While there remains differences between regimes (for example, over merger control notification rules, or leniency policies for whistle-blowers), and it is unlikely that there will be a supranational competition authority for ASEAN (akin to the European Union), there is a clear trend towards increase in infringement investigations or decisions on cartel enforcement. \n\nAt a national level competition law is enforced through competition authorities, as well as private enforcement. The United States Supreme Court explained:\n\nEvery violation of the antitrust laws is a blow to the free-enterprise system envisaged by Congress. This system depends on strong competition for its health and vigor, and strong competition depends, in turn, on compliance with antitrust legislation. In enacting these laws, Congress had many means at its disposal to penalize violators. It could have, for example, required violators to compensate federal, state, and local governments for the estimated damage to their respective economies caused by the violations. But, this remedy was not selected. Instead, Congress chose to permit all persons to sue to recover three times their actual damages every time they were injured in their business or property by an antitrust violation.\n\nIn the European Union, the Modernisation Regulation 1/2003 means that the European Commission is no longer the only body capable of public enforcement of European Union competition law. This was done to facilitate quicker resolution of competition-related inquiries. In 2005 the Commission issued a Green Paper on \"Damages actions for the breach of the EC antitrust rules\", which suggested ways of making private damages claims against cartels easier.\n\nSome EU Member States enforce their competition laws with criminal sanctions. As analysed by Professor Whelan, these types of sanctions engender a number of significant theoretical, legal and practical challenges.\n\nAntitrust administration and legislation can be seen as a balance between:\n\nChapter 5 of the post war Havana Charter contained an Antitrust code but this was never incorporated into the WTO's forerunner, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1947. Office of Fair Trading Director and Professor Richard Whish wrote sceptically that it \"seems unlikely at the current stage of its development that the WTO will metamorphose into a global competition authority.\" Despite that, at the ongoing Doha round of trade talks for the World Trade Organization, discussion includes the prospect of competition law enforcement moving up to a global level. While it is incapable of enforcement itself, the newly established International Competition Network (ICN) is a way for national authorities to coordinate their own enforcement activities.\n\nUnder the doctrine of laissez-faire, antitrust is seen as unnecessary as competition is viewed as a long-term dynamic process where firms compete against each other for market dominance. In some markets a firm may successfully dominate, but it is because of superior skill or innovativeness. However, according to laissez-faire theorists, when it tries to raise prices to take advantage of its monopoly position it creates profitable opportunities for others to compete. A process of creative destruction begins which erodes the monopoly. Therefore, government should not try to break up monopoly but should allow the market to work.\nThe classical perspective on competition was that certain agreements and business practice could be an unreasonable restraint on the individual liberty of tradespeople to carry on their livelihoods. Restraints were judged as permissible or not by courts as new cases appeared and in the light of changing business circumstances. Hence the courts found specific categories of agreement, specific clauses, to fall foul of their doctrine on economic fairness, and they did not contrive an overarching conception of market power. Earlier theorists like Adam Smith rejected any monopoly power on this basis.\n\nA monopoly granted either to an individual or to a trading company has the same effect as a secret in trade or manufactures. The monopolists, by keeping the market constantly under-stocked, by never fully supplying the effectual demand, sell their commodities much above the natural price, and raise their emoluments, whether they consist in wages or profit, greatly above their natural rate.\n\nIn \"The Wealth of Nations\" (1776) Adam Smith also pointed out the cartel problem, but did not advocate specific legal measures to combat them.\n\nPeople of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public, or in some contrivance to raise prices. It is impossible indeed to prevent such meetings, by any law which either could be executed, or would be consistent with liberty and justice. But though the law cannot hinder people of the same trade from sometimes assembling together, it ought to do nothing to facilitate such assemblies; much less to render them necessary.\n\nBy the latter half of the 19th century it had become clear that large firms had become a fact of the market economy. John Stuart Mill's approach was laid down in his treatise \"On Liberty\" (1859).\n\nAgain, trade is a social act. Whoever undertakes to sell any description of goods to the public, does what affects the interest of other persons, and of society in general; and thus his conduct, in principle, comes within the jurisdiction of society... both the cheapness and the good quality of commodities are most effectually provided for by leaving the producers and sellers perfectly free, under the sole check of equal freedom to the buyers for supplying themselves elsewhere. This is the so-called doctrine of Free Trade, which rests on grounds different from, though equally solid with, the principle of individual liberty asserted in this Essay. Restrictions on trade, or on production for purposes of trade, are indeed restraints; and all restraint, qua restraint, is an evil...\n\nAfter Mill, there was a shift in economic theory, which emphasized a more precise and theoretical model of competition. A simple neo-classical model of free markets holds that production and distribution of goods and services in competitive free markets maximizes social welfare. This model assumes that new firms can freely enter markets and compete with existing firms, or to use legal language, there are no barriers to entry. By this term economists mean something very specific, that competitive free markets deliver allocative, productive and dynamic efficiency. Allocative efficiency is also known as Pareto efficiency after the Italian economist Vilfredo Pareto and means that resources in an economy over the long run will go precisely to those who are willing and able to pay for them. Because rational producers will keep producing and selling, and buyers will keep buying up to the last marginal unit of possible output – or alternatively rational producers will be reduce their output to the margin at which buyers will buy the same amount as produced – there is no waste, the greatest number wants of the greatest number of people become satisfied and utility is perfected because resources can no longer be reallocated to make anyone better off without making someone else worse off; society has achieved allocative efficiency. Productive efficiency simply means that society is making as much as it can. Free markets are meant to reward those who work hard, and therefore those who will put society's resources towards the frontier of its possible production. Dynamic efficiency refers to the idea that business which constantly competes must research, create and innovate to keep its share of consumers. This traces to Austrian-American political scientist Joseph Schumpeter's notion that a \"perennial gale of creative destruction\" is ever sweeping through capitalist economies, driving enterprise at the market's mercy. This led Schumpeter to argue that monopolies did not need to be broken up (as with Standard Oil) because the next gale of economic innovation would do the same.\n\nContrasting with the allocatively, productively and dynamically efficient market model are monopolies, oligopolies, and cartels. When only one or a few firms exist in the market, and there is no credible threat of the entry of competing firms, prices rise above the competitive level, to either a monopolistic or oligopolistic equilibrium price. Production is also decreased, further decreasing social welfare by creating a deadweight loss. Sources of this market power are said to include the existence of externalities, barriers to entry of the market, and the free rider problem. Markets may fail to be efficient for a variety of reasons, so the exception of competition law's intervention to the rule of \"laissez faire\" is justified if government failure can be avoided. Orthodox economists fully acknowledge that perfect competition is seldom observed in the real world, and so aim for what is called \"workable competition.\" This follows the theory that if one cannot achieve the ideal, then go for the second best option by using the law to tame market operation where it can.\n\nA group of economists and lawyers, who are largely associated with the University of Chicago, advocate an approach to competition law guided by the proposition that some actions that were originally considered to be anticompetitive could actually promote competition. The U.S. Supreme Court has used the Chicago School approach in several recent cases. One view of the Chicago School approach to antitrust is found in United States Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Richard Posner's books \"Antitrust Law\" and \"Economic Analysis of Law\".\n\nRobert Bork was highly critical of court decisions on United States antitrust law in a series of law review articles and his book \"The Antitrust Paradox\". Bork argued that both the original intention of antitrust laws and economic efficiency was the pursuit \"only\" of consumer welfare, the protection of competition rather than competitors. Furthermore, only a few acts should be prohibited, namely cartels that fix prices and divide markets, mergers that create monopolies, and dominant firms pricing predatorily, while allowing such practices as vertical agreements and price discrimination on the grounds that it did not harm consumers. Running through the different critiques of US antitrust policy is the common theme that government interference in the operation of free markets does more harm than good. \"The only cure for bad theory,\" writes Bork, \"is better theory.\" The late Harvard Law School Professor Philip Areeda, who favours more aggressive antitrust policy, in at least one Supreme Court case challenged Robert Bork's preference for non-intervention.\n\nWhen firms hold large market shares, consumers risk paying higher prices and getting lower quality products than compared to competitive markets. However, the existence of a very high market share does not always mean consumers are paying excessive prices since the threat of new entrants to the market can restrain a high-market-share firm's price increases. Competition law does not make merely having a monopoly illegal, but rather abusing the power that a monopoly may confer, for instance through exclusionary practices.\n\nFirst it is necessary to determine whether a firm is dominant, or whether it behaves \"to an appreciable extent independently of its competitors, customers and ultimately of its consumer.\" Under EU law, very large market shares raise a presumption that a firm is dominant, which may be rebuttable. If a firm has a dominant position, then there is \"a special responsibility not to allow its conduct to impair competition on the common market.\" Similarly as with collusive conduct, market shares are determined with reference to the particular market in which the firm and product in question is sold. Then although the lists are seldom closed, certain categories of abusive conduct are usually prohibited under the country's legislation. For instance, limiting production at a shipping port by refusing to raise expenditure and update technology could be abusive. Tying one product into the sale of another can be considered abuse too, being restrictive of consumer choice and depriving competitors of outlets. This was the alleged case in \"Microsoft v. Commission\" leading to an eventual fine of million for including its Windows Media Player with the Microsoft Windows platform. A refusal to supply a facility which is essential for all businesses attempting to compete to use can constitute an abuse. One example was in a case involving a medical company named \"Commercial Solvents\". When it set up its own rival in the tuberculosis drugs market, Commercial Solvents were forced to continue supplying a company named Zoja with the raw materials for the drug. Zoja was the only market competitor, so without the court forcing supply, all competition would have been eliminated.\n\nForms of abuse relating directly to pricing include price exploitation. It is difficult to prove at what point a dominant firm's prices become \"exploitative\" and this category of abuse is rarely found. In one case however, a French funeral service was found to have demanded exploitative prices, and this was justified on the basis that prices of funeral services outside the region could be compared. A more tricky issue is predatory pricing. This is the practice of dropping prices of a product so much that one's smaller competitors cannot cover their costs and fall out of business. The Chicago School (economics) considers predatory pricing to be unlikely. However, in \"France Telecom SA v. Commission\" a broadband internet company was forced to pay $13.9 million for dropping its prices below its own production costs. It had \"no interest in applying such prices except that of eliminating competitors\" and was being cross-subsidized to capture the lion's share of a booming market. One last category of pricing abuse is price discrimination. An example of this could be offering rebates to industrial customers who export your company's sugar, but not to customers who are selling their goods in the same market as you are in.\n\nA merger or acquisition involves, from a competition law perspective, the concentration of economic power in the hands of fewer than before. This usually means that one firm buys out the shares of another. The reasons for oversight of economic concentrations by the state are the same as the reasons to restrict firms who abuse a position of dominance, only that regulation of mergers and acquisitions attempts to deal with the problem before it arises, \"ex ante\" prevention of market dominance. In the United States merger regulation began under the Clayton Act, and in the European Union, under the Merger Regulation 139/2004 (known as the \"ECMR\"). Competition law requires that firms proposing to merge gain authorization from the relevant government authority. The theory behind mergers is that transaction costs can be reduced compared to operating on an open market through bilateral contracts. Concentrations can increase economies of scale and scope. However often firms take advantage of their increase in market power, their increased market share and decreased number of competitors, which can adversely affect the deal that consumers get. Merger control is about predicting what the market might be like, not knowing and making a judgment. Hence the central provision under EU law asks whether a concentration \"would\", if it went ahead, \"significantly impede effective competition... in particular as a result of the creation or strengthening off a dominant position...\" and the corresponding provision under US antitrust states similarly,\n\nNo person shall acquire, directly or indirectly, the whole or any part of the stock or other share capital... of the assets of one or more persons engaged in commerce or in any activity affecting commerce, where... the effect of such acquisition, of such stocks or assets, or of the use of such stock by the voting or granting of proxies or otherwise, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly.\n\nWhat amounts to a substantial lessening of, or significant impediment to competition is usually answered through empirical study. The market shares of the merging companies can be assessed and added, although this kind of analysis only gives rise to presumptions, not conclusions. The Herfindahl-Hirschman Index is used to calculate the \"density\" of the market, or what concentration exists. Aside from the maths, it is important to consider the product in question and the rate of technical innovation in the market. A further problem of collective dominance, or oligopoly through \"economic links\" can arise, whereby the new market becomes more conducive to collusion. It is relevant how transparent a market is, because a more concentrated structure could mean firms can coordinate their behavior more easily, whether firms can deploy deterrents and whether firms are safe from a reaction by their competitors and consumers. The entry of new firms to the market, and any barriers that they might encounter should be considered. If firms are shown to be creating an uncompetitive concentration, in the US they can still argue that they create efficiencies enough to outweigh any detriment, and similar reference to \"technical and economic progress\" is mentioned in Art. 2 of the ECMR. Another defense might be that a firm which is being taken over is about to fail or go insolvent, and taking it over leaves a no less competitive state than what would happen anyway. Mergers vertically in the market are rarely of concern, although in \"AOL/Time Warner\" the European Commission required that a joint venture with a competitor Bertelsmann be ceased beforehand. The EU authorities have also focused lately on the effect of conglomerate mergers, where companies acquire a large portfolio of related products, though without necessarily dominant shares in any individual market.\n\nCompetition law has become increasingly intertwined with intellectual property, such as copyright, trademarks, patents, industrial design rights and in some jurisdictions trade secrets. It is believed that promotion of innovation through enforcement of intellectual property rights may promote as well as limit competitiveness. The question rests on whether it is legal to acquire monopoly through accumulation of intellectual property rights. In which case, the judgment needs to decide between giving preference to intellectual property rights or to competitiveness:\n\nConcerns also arise over anti-competitive effects and consequences due to:\n\nSome scholars suggest that a prize instead of patent would solve the problem of deadweight loss, when innovators got their reward from the prize, provided by the government or non-profit organization, rather than directly selling to the market, see Millennium Prize Problems. However innovators may accept the prize only when it is at least as much as how much they earn from patent, which is a question difficult to determine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43782700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43782700", "title": "Corporate Affairs Commission", "text": "Corporate Affairs Commission\n\nCorporate Affairs Commission is a body of the Nigerian Government responsible for the regulation and management of companies in Nigeria. It was introduced in 1990 with the passing of the Companies and Allied Matters Act. It is headed by a Chairman and closely assisted by the Registrar General/ CEO. The current chairman is Otunba Funso Lawal.\n\nOther prominent offices of the board of CAC includes Manufacturer Association of Nigeria, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), Nigerian Bar Association, Securities and Exchange Commission, Federal Ministry of Trade and Investment, Nigerian Association of Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture, Federal Ministry of Justice and Federal Ministry of Finance. All these government agencies and parastatals send top representatives on the CAC board.\n\n"}
{"id": "52479742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52479742", "title": "Customer Service Institute of Australia", "text": "Customer Service Institute of Australia\n\nThe Customer Service Institute of Australia (CSIA) was established in 1997. It is the peak industry organisation in Australia for customer service organisations and professionals. Through the application of the International Customer Service Standard (ICSS:2015-20) and its precursors, CSIA provides an industry voice, skills training, events, research and support to its members. CSIA also hosts the annual Australian Service Excellence Awards (ASEA) providing accolades for industry excellence. The activities of the CSIA are recognized and endorsed by the Prime Minister of Australia.\nCSIA certifies organisations and individuals to the ICSS and others including the Complaint Handling Standard. The ICSS is reviewed and updated every five years with input from industry professionals. The current standard is the 2015-2020 standard.\nCSIA hosts an annual award ceremony called the Australian Service Excellence Awards where any Australian company has the chance to be nominated and win based on peoples choice. Companies like Virgin Australia have received multiple awards ranging from outstanding customer service in the year 2013 to receiving the Australian Service Excellence Award for Large Business' in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "25664236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25664236", "title": "Cyclical industrial dynamics", "text": "Cyclical industrial dynamics\n\nIndustrial dynamics is the study of the means and processes through which industries change over time, through their own processes of evolution – as first analyzed by Joseph Schumpeter. It is the complementary study to that of an industry’s comparative statics, which still dominates economic analysis. Industrial dynamics, as studied by scholars such as Carlsson and Eliasson, reveal the basic underlying forces driving industry evolution. Some industries, particularly those with rapid product turnover or high levels of capital expenditure, reveal special dynamics moving through intrinsic upturns and downturns that are not necessarily related to the wider economic fluctuations. These are known as cyclical industrial dynamics. They have recently come under investigation in the specialized literature.\n\nAlmost all industries exhibit cyclicality to some extent. Below are some examples where industry cycles have been particularly examined.\n\nThe research by John Sterman finds that the so-called commodity cycles arise in many commodity markets. For example, price and production cycles in markets of hog, cattle and copper span 4 years, 10–12 years and 8–10 years each in average respectively. Margret Slade estimates that cycles in prices of metals including aluminum, copper, iron, lead, silver, tin, and zinc are about 10–14 years in duration, which is twice as long as the investment periods. The study by Thomas Stanback indicates a persistent cycle of approximately two years duration in the textile industry in the 1950s and 1960s. Alajoutsijärvi and colleagues report that the cycle in the German paper industry has shortened in duration since 1990, and is now about two or three years in length.\n\nBased on his observations of the explicit cyclical movement in the shipbuilding industry, Nobel Prize-winning economist Jan Tinbergen believes the so-called ‘durable goods cycle’ is a result of the lag of the upstream industries such as shipbuilding in response to the cycles in end users markets such as that in freight rates. He further suggests that the cycle length of the upstream industry is four times the lag, and is about 17 years in the shipbuilding industry. Besides the traditional industries, many new industries such as semiconductors, flat panel displays, computers and telecommunications also exhibit strong cyclicality.\n\nIn the service sector, for example, Choi and colleagues date the industry cycles of the US hotel industry and restaurant industry. They establish the mean duration of the business cycle, measured with aggregate activities in absolute level, as about 7.3 years for the U.S. hotel industry; and for the U.S. restaurant industry, as about 8 years.\n\nCyclical dynamics at the level of individual industries may present rather different patterns from those of the general business cycles. For example, while the fluctuations of many industries correlate with those in the aggregate economy, there were also many industries that are not sensitive to business cycles — such as the pharmaceutical, educational service, insurance carriers and public service industries; some other industries such as the health service industry even enjoy higher growth during recessions. In fact, it was estimated that \"in any one recession [during the 1980s and the 1990s] only 60% of all industrial sectors were actually in a downturn.\"\n\nThe timing, duration and amplitude of industry cycles can vary widely. Durable goods industries in the US are approximately three times more cyclical than nondurable-goods industries.\n\nIndustry cycles have been identified using either the ‘classical cycle’ approach or the ‘growth cycle’ approach. The former approach uses time series in levels of economic activities to define cycles; and only absolute decline in the activities qualifies as a ‘downturn’.\n\nWhile this approach is consistent with the approach used by the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) to identify business cycles in the US, cycles at the industry level are usually concealed by strong industry trends which dominate industrial series. Therefore industry cycles are more commonly identified using the ‘growth cycle’ approach, by separating the cyclical component of a time series from the underlying trend.\n\nCombining the growth cycle approach and other econometric techniques such as the Hodrick-Prescott filter, the industry cycles in the global semiconductor, PCs and flat panel display industries in the past decades are identified.\n\nIndustry cycles can be further measured using techniques such as the Fourier analysis. For example, three most powerful cycles of the global semiconductor shipment data in the frequency domain are identified, with an average period of 4 years, 2.29 years, and 1.03 years accordingly (reverting to the original time domain).\n\nThree main mechanisms are suggested to be responsible for industry cycles, namely industry cycles caused by business cycles; industry cycles caused by mismatch and delay between different market dynamics including investment, capacity, price and sales; and industry cycles caused by the dynamics of innovation.\n\nMany industries boom when the aggregate economy is prosperous and bust when the economy is in recession. In other words, industry cycles of many industries in a given country are correlated with the business cycles of the country. For other industries, mismatch and delay between different dynamics in markets is another important mechanism causing industry cycles. The Bullwhip effect at firm-level and game-like competition at industry-level can cause the sequential boom-bust movement in price, sales, capacity and investment in many industries. Finally, uneven pace of technology change appears to be another main driver of industry cycles as sales in an industry are likely to peak after a ‘dominant design’ has emerged.\n\nSome industrial dynamics can be better understood through the lens of industry cycles. For example, it has been found that industries become more concentrated during the industry cycle downturns. This phenomenon is consistent with the theory of Joseph Schumpeter which views downturns as providing a mechanism of ‘cleansing’ which allocates the resources to stronger competitors in the industry.\n\nCyclical industrial dynamics constitute a key strategic setting for firms and thus bring many important implications to strategy-making of firms. For example, in the highly cyclical oil-well drilling industry, it has been suggested that, first, companies did adjust their strategic activities such as capital expenditure and asset allocation according to the stage of the cycle, and second, ‘optimal’ strategies varied across cycle stages. In the highly cyclical flat panel display industry, where there have been five upturns and downturns since the industry began in 1990, John Mathews demonstrated that there is a striking pattern in firms’ entry behavior, where not a single successful entry was engineered during an industry upturn. In the marketing literature, the pattern where firms are found to utilize recessions as times to enhance the standing of their brand, has also been noted.\n"}
{"id": "49680032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49680032", "title": "ECOCITIES (software)", "text": "ECOCITIES (software)\n\nAll member states of the European Union are bound to decrease their greenhouse gas emissions. For example, the EU climate and energy package requires member states to improve their energy efficiency by 20%, increase -renewable energy production by 20% and reduce their emissions by 20%. With about 40% of CO2 emissions heating, cooling and hot water production in buildings is one of the largest greenhouse gas producers. At the same time the building sector has the largest potential for energy savings. In their effort to lead a change towards greater energy efficiency and a reduction of greenhouse gas, many companies, cities and municipalities are in the process of developing low carbon action plans. However, the costs for developing optimal action plans and their continuous monitoring and optimization are very high, thus, often hindered by the tense financial situation, especially of cities and municipalities. With significant economic and environmental downsides; the consequences are additional costs due to the non-compliance to the national and EU emission goals and untapped energy saving potential.\n\nECOCITIES is an energy optimization system for building portfolios combining and extending the benefits of Energy Management Software (EMS), Computer-aided Facility Management (CAFM) software and building portfolio management software. It integrates building administration and monitoring, energy accounting and building portfolio optimization. Thereby, it supports the definition of low carbon action plans in terms of environmental impact (e.g., carbon footprint, energy efficiency) and financial impact (e.g., investment costs, running, costs). The system considers the following options for each building and the resulting (inter-) dependencies:\n\nECOCITIES calculates all energy- and cost-efficient development scenarios, visualizes them on the screen and allows decision makers to interactively explore the consequences of their actions (e.g., what are the citywide costs and the corresponding CO2 reductions of introducing a neighborhood-scale combined heat and power plant). ECOCITIES is an enabler for the realization of energy goals and provides synergies with existing endeavors of achieving national and European energy goals. On an operational level, ECOCITIES supports the following processes:\n"}
{"id": "28036384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28036384", "title": "Enrober", "text": "Enrober\n\nAn enrober is a machine used in the confectionery industry to coat a food item with a coating medium, typically chocolate. Foods that are coated by enrobers include nuts, ice cream, toffee, biscuits and cookies. Enrobing with chocolate extends a confection's shelf life.\n\nThe enrober machine was invented in France in 1903, brought to the United States, and perfected to perform the work of at least twenty people.\nThe process of enrobing involves placing the items on the enrober's feed band, which may consist of a wire mesh or containers in which the confection to be enrobed are placed, with each container having drain holes to recover excess chocolate. The enrober maintains the coating medium at a controlled constant temperature and pumps the medium into a flow pan. The medium flows from the flow pan in a continuous curtain and bottoming bed that the food items pass through, completely coating them. A wire mesh conveyor belt then transports the coated confection to a cooling area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9442124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9442124", "title": "Eric Tigerstedt", "text": "Eric Tigerstedt\n\nEric Magnus Campbell Tigerstedt (August 14, 1887 – April 20, 1925) was one of the most significant inventors in Finland at the beginning of the 20th century and has been called the \"Thomas Edison of Finland\". He was a pioneer of sound-on-film technology and made significant improvements to the amplification capacity of the vacuum valve. Having seen a showing of the Lumière brothers' new motion picture technology as a 9-year-old boy in Helsinki in 1896, he was inspired to bring sound to silent pictures.\n\nMany years later, in 1914, his demonstration film \"Word and Picture\" was presented to a gathering of scientific dignitaries in Berlin, but his invention was never commercialised. In addition to improving the triode vacuum valve, he developed directional loudspeakers. Tigerstedt also predicted such future inventions as television and the mobile phone, and in 1917 he filed a patent for what he described as a \"pocket-size folding telephone with a very thin carbon microphone\". Tigerstedt was awarded a total of 71 patents in several countries between the years 1912 and 1924.\n\nTigerstedt was born in Helsinki and started to show a particular interest in all things technical at an early age. He studied his father’s scientific books with great interest, and at age 11 he built a simple photographic device. At age 13, he began experimenting with other technical devices and machines, and he built his own version of an electric motor and electrical batteries. After a falling out with his father, he left home at the age of 15, supporting himself by working as a handyman and technician in mechanical workshops and shipyards in Helsinki. He later worked as a technician in the telephone industry, which was rapidly becoming a major business in Helsinki at that time.\n\nIn 1908, Tigerstedt moved to Germany to continue his studies. He completed his high school education and began studies in electrical engineering at the Friedrichs Polytechnikum in Köthen. After completing his studies there in 1911, he moved back to Finland with his fiancée Marjatta Nybom, whom he had met and fallen in love with while in Köthen. She had been studying the violin in Switzerland and met Tigersted through her brother Albert Nybom, who was also studying in Köthen and was a classmate of Tigerstedt. However, the engagement between Tigerstedt and Marjatta Nybom was broken off in 1912.\n\nAfter returning to Finland, he continued his experiments and succeeded in building a prototype of sound-on-film technology (\"talking movies\"). Tigerstedt then returned to Germany in 1913 and founded a company with the Swedish merchant Axel Wahlstedt and the Swedish engineer Hugo Swartling. This was the first in a series of unsuccessful business ventures. Although Tigerstedt was able to complete his work with the sound-on-film technology, the partners' laboratory was eventually confiscated due to unpaid rent. They managed to reclaim their laboratory, but it was then destroyed in a fire. The cooperation between Wahlstedt and Tigerstedt became strained and in January 1914 they dissolved their company. After breaking off their commercial partnership, Wahlstedt returned to Sweden, while Tigerstedt stayed behind in Berlin, more or less broke.\n\nTigerstedt continued working on his sound-on-film technology and made progress in solving a major technical problem, that of how to amplify film audio sufficiently to fill a large theatre or hall. He did this by making major improvements to the vacuum tube design of Lee de Forest, increasing the amplification capacity substantially. In February–March 1914, Tigerstedt demonstrated his sound-on-film technology to a small group of scientists, using his own film \"Word and Picture\".\n\nAfter being expelled from Germany in July 1914, Tigerstedt returned to Finland, but he moved to Sweden a few months later and then to Denmark in 1915. After another unsuccessful business venture, Tigerstedt once more returned to Finland. In 1917, he moved back to Denmark and founded yet another company, which was then sold. After that, he participated in the founding of the Norwegian company A/S Anod, in which he held a 45% stake.\n\nAs a Finnish citizen, Tigerstedt was called back to take part in the Finnish civil war of 1918, and on 14 February 1918 he was on his way back to Finland. After the cessation of hostilities, he participated in the victory parade on 16 May 1918, but then returned to Denmark, where he married Ingrid Lignell in 1919. Their son Carl Axel Waldemar was born in 1921. However, their marriage soon began to deteriorate, and they separated not long after the birth of their son.\n\nDuring World War I, Germany invalidated all of Tigerstedt's patents. After the war, he received compensation from the German government, but the sum quickly became worthless due to the hyperinflation in Germany during 1921 to 1923. In 1922, Tigerstedt moved his laboratory to Finland and founded a new company called “Tigerstedts patenter”, which however also failed.\n\nIn 1923, Tigerstedt moved to America where he founded his last company, the Tiger Manufacturing Co., to produce small radio receivers and cryptographic devices. The Mexican government purchased two of the cryptographic devices, and the radio receivers also sold relatively well. Tigerstedt had the opportunity to meet with the great American inventor Thomas Alva Edison, who wrote a letter of recommendation for Tigerstedt to the director of the Department of Commerce.\n\nWhen it finally seemed that Tigerstedt was on the verge of commercial success, he was involved in an ultimately fatal car accident on April 20, 1924, when another car unexpectedly turned in front of the car Tigerstedt was travelling in. There were persistent rumours that a competitor had arranged for the accident, but there was never any proof of this.\n\nExactly one year later, on April 20, 1925, he succumbed to tuberculosis at the New York Fifth Avenue Hospital, possibly due to side effects from his injuries in the car accident. He wrote his last letter to his brother Göran, in which he described the state of his company, explained the structure of a new membrane that he was developing, and stated that he was about to undergo a kidney operation due to the spreading tuberculosis. Unfortunately, medical science was not advanced enough to be able to save his life. After his death, his brother travelled to America and brought his ashes home for burial in Helsinki. As with many inventors, Tigerstedt's inventions were never fully appreciated during his own lifetime.\n\nTigerstedt experimented in many areas. He developed a new version of the shotgun that could be fired using the thumbs and that counted the number of shots fired. Unfortunately, he was perennially short of funds, and he did not have enough financial standing to file for a patent.\n\nTigerstedt's greatest interest was in the field of sound recording. He had developed a prototype for recording sound on a metal wire as early as 1912 and was convinced that he could find a way to record sound directly on motion picture film. He started his first experiments in Helsinki using very primitive equipment. The sentence he attempted to record was in German: \"Grau ist alle Theorie. Grün ist nur des Lebens Baum\". Finally, he succeeded and he called his invention the \"photomagnetophone\". Unfortunately, his achievements did not gain any recognition, nor did he reap any financial gains from his invention, so he had to maintain a day job in order to earn a modest living and could only continue his experiments in the evenings and into the nights, sometimes working all through the night without any sleep.\nAfter meeting his former schoolmate Alfred Nybom in Berlin, he succeeded in using Nybom's connections to gain access to a research laboratory and employment as an inventor. Film with audio was recognised as a commercially promising field of endeavour, but Tigerstedt's invention needed further development before it could be commercialised. There was as yet no technology available to electronically amplify the audio signal sufficiently to fill a large movie theatre. Tigerstedt also enlarged his vision of video transmission in the future. He wrote: \"There will come a time when people can sit at home and follow events in the world through a device I now call the 'electronic eye'. When people get used to film with sound, they will soon adopt the electric eye, or electrophtalmoscope\". When his father learned of his thinking, he tried to persuade him to not let his imagination carry him away, \" ... otherwise you will surely end your days in the asylum in Lapinlahti.\"\n\nTigerstedt returned to Germany in 1913 and continued developing the photomagnetophone, but there was still no solution to the problem of amplification. He experimented with early versions of the vacuum tube and eventually was able to amplify the sound, but with disappointing results.\n\nTigerstedt also continued developing the electrophtalmoscope. The prototype consisted of vibrating mirrors in both the sending and receiving apparatus, using the photoelectric properties of a selenium element at the sender and a light source at the receiving end which was modulated using a Faraday device. The received picture was supposed to be displayed on a movie screen. Two electrophtalmoscopes were built and an experiment was conducted using an electrical cable running from London to Berlin. Tigerstedt arranged several demonstrations and gained a reputation as a knowledgeable scientist.\n\nTigerstedt stubbornly continued to grapple with the problems of the early vacuum tubes, which were inefficient, expensive and prone to breaking. His German colleagues told him that the vacuum tubes could not be developed further and that there could be no solution to the problem with the weakness of amplification. Tigerstedt, however, continued to experiment and eventually succeeded in substantially improving on the design of Lee De Forest, achieving much greater amplification than that of the original valves. Tigerstedt also patented his improvement of the triode vacuum valve, which consisted of improving the amplification by rearranging the electrodes cylindrically in the tube, changing the glass mold to prevent vacuum loss and using steel mirrors inside the tubes to prevent electrostatic interference. He had finally solved the most difficult practical problems of talking movies. It is worth noting that his achievement was purely experimental, as there were no prior experiments or mathematical models that he could have followed.\n\nThis was a major step forward for Tigerstedt, and he was soon able to show a film with sound which was electronically amplified and reproduced through a speaker system. Beginning in 1919, de Forest created his own sound-on-film system, which he called Phonofilm and which used some of Tigerstedt's concepts, along with some of the Tri-Ergon group and of inventor Theodore Case. Tigerstedt was awarded a German patent (number 309,536) on July 28, 1914 for his sound-on-film process.\n\nOne month later, Tigerstedt was summoned by the German authorities, told that he had been declared an unwanted Russian citizen, and given three days to leave the country. World War I had started and Finland was at that time part of the Russian empire, having been ceded to Russia after the 1808-1809 war between Sweden and Russia. As another consequence of the declaration of war between Russia and Germany, the German government invalidated all German patents held by citizens of enemy nations.\n\nTigerstedt moved to Denmark, where he continued working on film sound recording devices at the Petersen & Poulsen company. He befriended the Danish inventor Valdemar Poulsen (1869–1942), who was the inventor of the telegraphone steel wire magnetic recorder. Tigerstedt, too, had experimented with recording sound on a steel wire. He attempted to transmit speech across the Jutland straits using 30 kHz ultrasound, but the results were not promising. He also experimented with transmitting sound underwater, which was more successful, and he was eventually granted a patent for this process.\n\nA pilot suggested to Tigerstedt that he should develop a device to facilitate communication between two pilots while seated one behind the other in an open biplane. Tigerstedt invented a device which had a very small earpiece that could be plugged into the ear. Tigerstedt spent considerable time on designing the earpiece. The device was also found to be helpful to people who were hard of hearing, offering a possible alternative to the large ear trumpets then in use as hearing aids.\n\n\nhttp://www.filmsoundsweden.se/voxbilder/filmhist/tigerstedt_2.jpg \nis rather electromechanical amplifier\n\n"}
{"id": "47024397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47024397", "title": "Ernesto Igel", "text": "Ernesto Igel\n\nErnesto Igel (November 27, 1893 – January 24, 1966) was an Austrian entrepreneur and founder of the company Empresa Brasileira de Gáz a Domilicio Ltda, the first Brazilian gas distribution network of fuel for cooking equipment (LPG).\n\nIn 1938, the company changed its name to Ultragaz S.A.\n\nThrough Ultragaz's growth and the creation of new companies, Ernesto Igel founded Ultra, also known as Ultrapar.\n\nBorn to a family of merchants in Vienna, Austria, Igel was the eldest of five children. At 15, he got his first job at an import-export company. At 21, he was drafted to the Austrian army to fight in World War I. He was sent to Romania, where he served as a management assistant.\n\nAfter the war, Igel moved to Brazil in 1920 when he was 26 years old. He then established the company Ernesto Igel & Cia., an importer of tableware, sanitary metals, stoves and heaters for use with pipeline gas. During his trips to Europe, Igel got to work with the then-new gas bottling technology for domestic use.\n\nOn August 30, 1937, Igel founded Empresa Brasileira de Gáz a Domicílio Ltda. The following year, in September 1938, the company's IPO set the start of Ultragaz S.A. After that, the company extended its operations and began to conduct business throughout Brazil.\n\nIgel married Margaret Hartman, also Austrian, with whom he had two children, Pery and Daisy Igel. The businessman headed the administration of their companies until 1959, when he named his son, Pery Igel, as the new head of Ultragaz.\n"}
{"id": "22166941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22166941", "title": "Error account", "text": "Error account\n\nAn error account is a type of account used for storing compensation for errors in trading, a transaction that is not posted in a timely manner because of inconsistencies, such as an incorrect account or routing numbers to the wrong name on the account, producing a claim that needs to be resolved as soon as possible so payments can be made.\n\nWhen many hundreds or thousands of transactions are being done each day, and whenever there is human input involved, error accounts are necessary to keep the audit trail intact. Error accounts also play a role in improving customer service. GAAP recommends daily or weekly monitoring of error accounts depending on volume and transaction size. It is typically up to the company or applicable government department's accounting department to monitor the error accounts that it has in place.\n\nIn 1994, Nick Leeson used a poorly monitored error account at Barings Bank in an attempt to cover up evidence of his trading losses and place ever larger unauthorized trades to win back the money. In doing so, he lost over £800 million and bankrupted his employer.\n\nError accounts can be implemented in manual accounting as well, but this is much less common in the developed world since personal computers became pervasive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20193253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20193253", "title": "Esther Gordy Edwards", "text": "Esther Gordy Edwards\n\nEsther Gordy Edwards (April 25, 1920 – August 24, 2011) was a staff member and associate of her younger brother Berry Gordy's Motown label during the 1960s. Edwards created the Motown Museum, Hitsville U.S.A., by preserving the label's Detroit studio. She also served as President of the Motown Museum and has been called the \"Mother of Motown\".\n\nEsther Gordy Edwards was born to Berry Gordy, Sr. and Bertha Fuller Gordy in Baldwin County, Georgia. She was the couple's second oldest child and eldest daughter. When she was two years old, her parents moved to Detroit, Michigan. Edwards' younger siblings included sisters Anna, the late Loucye, and Gwen, as well as brothers Fuller, George, Berry and Robert, who was the youngest of the family. Edwards attended Detroit's prestigious Cass Technical High School. She later graduated from Howard University. Esther married Detroit politician George Edwards in 1951. From a previous relationship, she has a son by Robert Theron Bullock named Robert Berry Bullock, and through him has three granddaughters named Robin, Elesha and Gwen and grandson Alejandro Quinn a Major in the United States Marine Corps.\n\nEdwards founded the Gordy Printing Company with two of her brothers in the mid-1940s. With her husband, they created the Ber-Berry Co-Op, which was intended to provide loans to family members. Her younger brother Berry reportedly asked for an $800 loan to help start Motown Records in 1959. After Motown became established, Edwards took an active role in management and booking tours, including the legendary Motortown Revue in the early 1960s. While at Motown, Edwards took on a motherly role towards some of the label's younger acts. In the mid-1960s, she served as Motown's vice president and chief executive officer. She was succeeded in this role by Smokey Robinson in 1972. Edwards later served on the board for the Detroit Bank of Commonwealth and the Greater Detroit Chamber of Commerce.\n\nIn 1985, Edwards became the director of the Motown Historical Museum (Hitsville U.S.A.) and has since been credited with carefully maintaining the original studios of Motown. Edwards is often described as \"the pillar of Motown\".\n\nEsther died surrounded by family and friends, following a long illness, at her Jefferson Towers home in Detroit on August 24, 2011. She was 91 years old.\n"}
{"id": "9286117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9286117", "title": "Gianni Infantino", "text": "Gianni Infantino\n\nGiovanni Vincenzo \"Gianni\" Infantino (; born 23 March 1970) is a Swiss–Italian football administrator and the current president of FIFA. He was elected President of FIFA during the 2016 FIFA Extraordinary Congress on 26 February 2016.\n\nGianni Infantino was born on 23 March 1970 in Brig, Switzerland. He is a son of Italian immigrant parents from Calabria and Lombardy. He studied law at the University of Fribourg. He is fluent in Italian, English, French, and German. Infantino also knows Spanish, and Arabic.\n\nInfantino worked as the Secretary General of the International Center for Sports Studies (CIES) at the University of Neuchâtel.\n\nGianni Infantino started working with the UEFA in August 2000, and was appointed as the Director of UEFA's Legal Affairs and Club Licensing Division in January 2004. He became Deputy General Secretary of UEFA in 2007, and Secretary General of UEFA in October 2009. During his time there, UEFA introduced Financial Fair Play and improved commercial support to smaller national associations. \n\nHe oversaw the expansion of UEFA Euro 2016 to 24 teams and played a role in the conception of the UEFA Nations League and the UEFA Euro 2020, that will take place in 13 European nations.\n\nIn 2015, the Greek government decided to introduce a new sports law in response to the recent scandal and acts of violence and corruption mainly in Greek football. Gianni Infantino, as UEFA's general secretary, led the negotiations with the Greek government and supported the Hellenic Football Federation's warning to Greece that it faces suspension from international football for government interference.\n\nInfantino was a member of FIFA's Reform Committee. On 26 October 2015, he received the backing of the UEFA Executive Committee to stand for the position of president in the 2016 FIFA Extraordinary Congress. On the same day, he confirmed his candidacy and submitted the required declarations of support. He promised to expand the FIFA World Cup to forty teams. \n\nOn 26 February 2016, he was elected FIFA President for a period of three years. Swiss man Infantino holds dual citizenship through his parents. With his election, he became the first Italian to hold the Presidency of FIFA.\n\nIn 2017, Infantino criticized the United States travel ban on several Muslim-majority nations. He said \"When it comes to FIFA competitions, any team, including the supporters and officials of that team, who qualify for a World Cup need to have access to the country, otherwise there is no World Cup. That is obvious.\"\n\nBefore the start of the 2018 FIFA World Cup, Infantino stated in February of that year that he is \"very satisfied so far with the progress in Russia. I’m sure we’ll have a great World Cup there – not only a great World Cup but the best World Cup ever.\"\n\nInfantino was implicated in the FIFA corruption scandal in documents released in the 2016 Panama Papers. They show that the UEFA undertook deals with indicted figures where previously they had denied any relationship. Infantino has stated he is \"dismayed\" at the reports and that he has never personally dealt with the parties involved.\n\nIn July 2016, Infantino was suspected to have broken the FIFA code of ethics, and was interviewed by the investigatory chamber of the FIFA Ethics Committee. \n\nThe investigation was focused on three areas: \"several flights taken by Mr. Infantino during the first months of his presidency, human resources matters related to hiring processes in the president's office, and Mr. Infantino's refusal to sign the contract specifying his employment relationship with FIFA\". \n\nEven though a document was leaked which showed illegitimate spending of funds by FIFA the matter concerning expenses and governance was not investigated. The document revealed that Infantino had billed FIFA for personal expenses such as £8,795 for mattresses at his home, £6,829 for a stepper exercise machine, £1,086 for a tuxedo, £677 on flowers and £132 on personal laundry. In addition to that he billed the FIFA governing body for an external driver for his family and advisors while he was away.\n\nWhen Infantino accepted special treatment by the 2018 and 2022 World Cup hosts Russia and Qatar, the question of a potential conflict of interest was raised. The hosts had organized private jets for Infantino and his staff related to visits in Russia and the Gulf state. The investigatory chamber was of the opinion that no violation had occurred. In addition to that, the chamber found that \"human resources matters, as well as Mr. Infantino's conduct with regard to his contract with FIFA, if at all, constituted internal compliance issues rather than an ethical matter.\" \n\nWhile the investigatory chamber discharged Infantino, this did not stop criticism. Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, a former German football champion, criticized Infantino for not fulfilling his promises regarding transparency, democracy and governance. \"So far this has not succeeded in my eyes,\" he complained.\n\nInfantino is married to Lebanese Leena Al Ashqar; the couple have four children (Alessia, Sabrina, Shanïa Serena and Dhalia Nora). He is a fan of the Italian Serie A club Inter Milan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1750514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1750514", "title": "Gilbert de Clare, 1st Earl of Pembroke", "text": "Gilbert de Clare, 1st Earl of Pembroke\n\nGilbert fitz Gilbert de Clare (6 January 1148), was created Earl of Pembroke in 1138.\n\nBorn at Tonbridge, Gilbert de Clare was a son of Gilbert Fitz Richard de Clare and Alice de Claremont. He started out without land and wealth of his own but was closely related to very powerful men, specifically his uncles Walter de Clare and Roger de Clare.\nIn 1136 Gilbert fitz Gilbert led an expedition against Exmes and burned parts of the town, including the church of Notre Dame, but was interrupted by the forces of William III, Count of Ponthieu and escaped the resulting melee only after suffering heavy losses. Gilbert was a Baron, that is, a tenant-in-chief in England, and inherited the estates of his paternal uncles, Roger and Walter, which included the baronies and castles of Bienfaite and Orbec in Normandy. He held the lordship of Nether Gwent and the castle of Striguil (later Chepstow). King Stephen created him Earl of Pembroke, and gave him the rape and castle of Pevensey.\n\nAfter Stephen's defeat at Lincoln on 2 February 1141, Gilbert was among those who rallied to Empress Matilda when she recovered London in June, but he was at Canterbury when Stephen was recrowned late in 1141. He then joined Geoffrey's plot against Stephen, but when that conspiracy collapsed, he again adhered to Stephen, being with him at the siege of Oxford late in 1142. In 1147 he rebelled when Stephen refused to give him the castles surrendered by his nephew Gilbert, 2nd Earl of Hertford, whereupon the King marched to his nearest castle and nearly captured him. However, the Earl appears to have made his peace with Stephen before his death the following year.\n\nHe married Isabel de Beaumont, before 1130, daughter of Sir Robert de Beaumont, 1st Earl of Leicester, Count of Meulan, and Elizabeth de Vermandois. Isabel had previously been the mistress of King Henry I of England.\n\nBy her Gilbert had: \n\n"}
{"id": "1688729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1688729", "title": "Guy Innes-Ker, 10th Duke of Roxburghe", "text": "Guy Innes-Ker, 10th Duke of Roxburghe\n\nGuy David Innes-Ker, 10th Duke of Roxburghe (born 18 November 1954), styled Marquess of Bowmont and Cessford until 1974, is a British aristocrat.\n\nGuy David Innes-Ker was born 18 November 1954 to the 9th Duke by his second wife (Margaret) Elisabeth McConnel (1918–1993). The Duke has a younger brother, Lord Robert Innes-Ker (b. 1959), who is married, with one son and one daughter.\n\nHe was educated at Eton College, Magdalene College, Cambridge, where he studied Land Economy, and at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst where he was awarded the Sword of Honour in 1974, in which year he became a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals.\n\nHe is a Liveryman of the Worshipful Company of Fishmongers and a Freeman of the City of London.\n\nHe succeeded his father to the title of Duke of Roxburghe in 1974. He is also the Premier Baronet of Scotland, and the 30th feudal baron of Innes.\n\nThe heirs in the Innes-Ker family to the dukedom are the present Duke's three sons, his younger brother, and a nephew. According to the earldom's remainder to \"heirs male\" (since the dukedom remainder is to \"heirs of the earldom\"), there are no further proper heirs. However, there is precedence in the title moving contrary to its remainder, if an unlikely extinction of the heirs male to the family takes place.\n\nThe Duke has been married twice. His first marriage was on 10 September 1977 to Lady Jane Meriel Grosvenor (b. 8 February 1953; Lady Jane Dawnay since 1996), younger daughter of Robert Grosvenor, 5th Duke of Westminster; the couple had two sons and a daughter. They divorced in 1990. Their children are:\n\nThe Duke remarried 3 September 1992, interior designer Virginia Mary, née Wynn-Williams (1st daughter of David Wynn-Williams). They have a son and a daughter. Their children are:\n\nThe Duke lives at Floors Castle, Kelso, Roxburghshire. In December 2009, he was diagnosed with oesophageal cancer and has been receiving treatment for the condition in London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15248880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15248880", "title": "Henri Colson", "text": "Henri Colson\n\nHenri Jean Colson (21 April 1819 – 30 April 1900) was a Belgian engineer, industrialist, professor at the University of Ghent, alderman and burgomaster of Ghent (Belgium) (\"ad interim\")\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23278870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23278870", "title": "IRI (company)", "text": "IRI (company)\n\nIRI is a market research company headquartered in the U.S. which provides clients with consumer, shopper, and retail market intelligence and analysis focused on the consumer packaged goods (CPG) industry. \n\nInformation Resources, Incorporated (IRI) was formed in Chicago in 1979 by market researcher John Malec and Gerald Eskin, a University of Iowa marketing professor. The two purchased scanners for supermarkets to gather point-of-sale data based on bar codes in grocery stores that could be sold to CPG companies to track what customers purchase. IRI became a public company in \n1983. By 1993 Fortune Magazine named IRI a \"company to watch\" for expanding into two of its biggest markets: analyzing nationwide scanner data on consumer products and producing computer software. At that time slightly more than half IRI's revenues came from Infoscan, its marketing data service.\n\nIn late 2003, IRI was acquired by a joint-venture cooperation between enterprise software provider Symphony Technology Group and investment capital firm Tennenbaum Capital Partners.\n\nIn April 2013, SymphonyIRI Group, Inc. announced that it was rebranding as IRI. In March 2011, New York-based private equity firm New Mountain Capital bought SymphonyIRI. The company announced that it was changing its name back to Information Resources Inc., or IRI. \n\nIn September 2013, IRI acquired Aztec, a provider of market measurement and related services for consumer packaged goods (CPG), liquor and pharmaceutical manufacturers and retailers in Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, New Zealand, South Africa, Sweden and the United Kingdom. This was the largest acquisition in IRI’s history and significantly expanded IRI’s geographic presence.\n\nIn February 2004, IRI named former Electronic Data Systems Corp executive Scott Klein as its president and CEO, succeeding Joe Durrett. Klein served as CEO until October 2007, when he moved to IRI's parent company, Symphony Technology Group, and was succeeded by former Salesforce.com executive John Freeland.\n\nIn June 2012, SymphonyIRI Group, Inc. appointed former Aon COO and McKinsey & Company senior partner, Andrew Appel, as president and CEO to succeed John G. Freeland, who moved to an interim role as executive vice chairman.\n\n"}
{"id": "38979715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38979715", "title": "ISO 20252", "text": "ISO 20252\n\nISO 20252:2012 is an international quality standard first published in 2006 as a replacement for the existing British Standards BS 7911:2003. It was subsequently updated in 2012.\n\nDeveloped by an ISO Technical Committee in liaison with professional bodies EFAMRO, ESOMAR and WAPOR, the standard sets out requirements in a Quality Management System for organizations conducting market, opinion and social research. The standard is divided into five sections which collectively cover the end-to-end process of a research project. These sections are:\n\nIn the UK the Market Research Society (a member of the EFAMRO which sits on the ISO liaison committee) reports that 69 organizations (not counting subsidiaries) are accredited to the standard:\n\nThe Council of American Survey Research Organizations (CASRO) has passed 17 organizations through its ISO 20252 accreditation scheme:\n\n"}
{"id": "6346579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6346579", "title": "Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing", "text": "Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing\n\nIllegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (IUU) is an international issue around the world. Industry observers believe IUU occurs in most fisheries, and accounts for up to 30% of total catches in some important fisheries.\n\nIllegal fishing takes place when vessels or harvesters operate in violation of the laws of a fishery. This can apply to fisheries that are under the jurisdiction of a coastal state or to high seas fisheries regulated by regional fisheries management organisations (RFMO). According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Fisheries and Aquaculture Department, illegal fishing has caused losses estimated at US$23 billion per year with about 30% of illegal fishing in the world occurring in Indonesia alone.\n\nUnreported fishing is fishing that has been unreported or misreported to the relevant national authority or RFMO, in contravention of applicable laws and regulations.\n\nUnregulated fishing generally refers to fishing by vessels without nationality, vessels flying the flag of a country not party to the RFMO governing that fishing area or species on the high seas, or harvesting in unregulated areas.\n\nThe drivers behind illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing are similar to those behind many other types of international environmental crime: pirate fishers have a strong economic incentive -- many species of fish, particularly those that have been over-exploited and are thus in short supply, are of high financial value.\n\nSuch IUU activity may then show a high chance of success – i.e. a high rate of return – from the failure of governments to regulate adequately (e.g. inadequate coverage of international agreements), or to enforce national or international laws (e.g. because of lack of capacity, or poor levels of governance). A particular driver behind IUU fishing is the failure of a number of flag states to exercise effective regulation over ships on their registers — which in turn creates an incentive for ships to register under these flags of convenience.\n\nSince no one reports catches made by pirates, their level of fishing cannot be accurately quantified. \n\nOne economic impact of illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing on developing countries is the direct loss of the value of the catches that could be taken by local fishermen if the IUU fishing were not taking place.\n\nThese losses include a loss to GNP, and government revenues from landing fees, licence fees, and taxes payable by legal fishing operators. There are further indirect impacts in terms of loss of income and employment in related industries; losses in income will tend to reduce the consumer expenditures of families working in the fishing industry.\n\nIUU harvests may be brought to market at a lower price as unfair competition to the same products from the regulated supply or as a mislabeled competing product. In either situation this illegal unregulated contribution to the market may lower the overall quality and price of products available, thus creating an economic burden on harvesters following the laws and regulations.\n\nIllegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing can have a significant impact on the sustainability of both the targeted species and the ecosystem. Fishing generally has the capacity to damage fragile marine ecosystems and vulnerable species such as coral reefs, turtles and seabirds. In fact, all eight sea turtle species are now endangered, and illegal fishing and hunting are two major reasons for their destruction. Regulating legitimate fisheries is aimed at mitigating such impacts, but IUU fishers rarely comply with regulations. This may reduce future productivity and biodiversity and create imbalances in the ecosystem.\n\nThis may lead to reduced food security in communities heavily dependent on fish as a source of animal protein.\n\nIUU fishing can also lead to increased pressure on endangered fish species. IUU fishing can directly affect the population of fish species by increasing the number of fish caught within the population in spite of population management efforts by the international community. Indirectly, the substitution (mislabeling) of IUU caught fish for popular, but threatened or endangered species, increases the perceived supply of these species, thus decreasing the price and increasing the demand for the fish species.\n\nMandatory product certification and catch documentation are increasingly part of fishery monitoring and enforcement, and to exclude IUU products from consumer markets. Certification is also used for timber and for diamonds, which have analogous enforcement problems. Labels can reward harvesters and supply chains which honor regulations. Labeling may also provide accountability for adaptive management planning, as well-managed fisheries may provide higher quality products and more stable economics for producers.\n\nThe use of certification or catch document schemes is encouraged in the FAO's International Plan of Action on IUU Fishing. Several RFMOs include them, including CCAMLR's Catch Documentation Scheme for Toothfish, CCSBT's Trade Information Scheme for Southern Bluefin Tuna and ICCAT's Bluefin Tuna Statistical Document Programme. Similar systems are applied at a national level, including the USA's Certification of Origin of Tuna and Tuna Tracking and Verification Systems, Japan's reporting requirements (including area of capture) for all imports or transportation of tunas into Japan by boat, and the EU’s labelling of all fish products (including area of capture).\n\nThe Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) is an international non-profit organization that runs a certification and ecolabelling program for traceable, sustainable seafood.\n\nTo achieve certification as sustainable a fishery must meet a standard based on three principles:\n\n\nFisheries that meet the MSC standard for a sustainable fishery can use the blue MSC ecolabel on their seafood products.\n\nThe second element of the program is a certification for seafood traceability. This is called MSC Chain of Custody. From the fishery, every company in the supply chain that handles the certified fish is checked to ensure the MSC label is only applied to fish products that come from a certified fishery. This requires effective record-keeping and storage procedures. This traceability element of the program helps to keep illegally fished seafood out of the supply chain by linking seafood sold in shops and restaurants to a certified sustainable fishery.\n\nThe MSC eco-label enables consumers to easily identify sustainable seafood when shopping or dining out. As of June 2014, there are over 14,000 MSC-labelled seafood products sold in over 90 countries around the world. The MSC website lists outlets selling MSC-certified seafood.\n\nThe six MSC certified Patagonian toothfish and Antarctic toothfish fisheries (which are the South Georgia, Ross Sea, Heard Island, Macquarie Island, Kerguelen Islands and Falkland Islands fisheries) provide a good example of how good fisheries management can reverse the trend of illegal fishing. These fisheries took significant steps to exclude illegal vessels from their waters:\n\n\nThese are only some of the measures taken by the toothfish fisheries to achieve MSC certification. Further information on each of these toothfish fisheries can be found on the MSC website.\n\nThe Responsible Fishing Scheme is the only global standard that audits compliance on board fishing vessels, including ethical and welfare criteria. First launched in 2006 by Seafish to help fishing vessels demonstrate their commitment to a responsibly sourced catch, in January 2016 a revised scheme was launched to include the health and safety and welfare of crew on board. The new scheme has been re-developed in accordance with the requirements of internationally recognised standard ISO17065. Initially focused on vessels supplying the UK market, the scheme will be rolled out internationally over the next two years. \n\nThe Responsible Fishing Scheme website has the most up to date information.\n\nSeafish is the UK's authority on seafood. It was founded in 1981 by an Act of Parliament and aims to support all sectors of the seafood industry for a sustainable, profitable and socially responsible future. It is the only pan-industry body offering services to all parts of the industry, from the start of the supply chain at catching and aquaculture; through processing, importers, exporters and distributors of seafood right through to restaurants and retailers. Seafish is funded by a levy on the first sale of seafood landed in the UK. Its services are intended to support and improve the environmental sustainability, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the industry, as well as promoting responsibly-sourced seafood.\n\nIllegal and unreported fishing (two of the three components of IUU fishing) essentially arise from a failure to adequately enforce existing national and international laws. There are, however, many factors underlying enforcement failure, including, notably, poor levels of national governance.\n\nThere are obvious problems with enforcing fisheries regulations on the high seas, including locating and apprehending the pirate ships, but solutions are available, chiefly through improved monitoring and surveillance systems. \n\nMany fishermen are getting away with illegal, unreported, unregulated (IUU) ocean fishing due to the difficulty of monitoring every single fishing boat. This will begin to change with new technology that is able to watch and follow each boat from space consistently. This will be done through radio beacons, which all boats in the ocean are required to have. By implementing this new monitoring system, it will be impossible for fishermen to get away with IUU fishing in the future.\n\nMSC systems are similarly of value within exclusive economic zones, including, for example, offshore patrols and licensing schemes.\nUnder the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, states bear responsibility for the vessels (including fishing vessels) that fly their flag. While it is uncontroversial that individuals engaged in IUU fishing may be subject to legal sanctions, the extent to which flag states may be held liable under international law for the IUU fishing activities of their vessels is less clearly defined.\nIn March, 2013 the issue of flag state liability for IUU fishing was brought before the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea in a request for an advisory opinion submitted by the Sub-Regional Fisheries Commission (SRFC) of West Africa. The SRFC asked the Tribunal to advise on the following four questions:\n\n\nIn its submissions to the Tribunal, the SRFC emphasized the severity of the IUU fishing problem in West Africa and the need for a clear regime of flag state responsibilities with respect to vessels engaged in this trade. The SRFC argued that its member states had been unable to mount successful prosecutions against IUU fishers following boardings due to a lack of support and cooperation from flag states.\nA number of states and international organizations also made submissions adopting a range positions with respect to the four questions above. It was held by some states that the Tribunal lacked the advisory jurisdiction to respond to these questions. Both the government of Spain, a major contributor to the problem of IUU fishing, as well as the United Kingdom adopted such a view. A number of other states took the position that flag state responsibility for IUU fishing should take the form of a general responsibility to perform due diligence with respect to vessels and their activities, rather than an obligation to assist in prosecutions or another more substantive requirement.\nIn its Advisory Opinion issued on April 2, 2015, the Tribunal adopted the “due diligence” approach. The Tribunal found that flag states are under only a general obligation to take the necessary measures to ensure that their nationals and vessels flying their flag are not engaged in IUU fishing activities. This obligation may be satisfied by adhering to generally accepted international norms of fishing vessel regulation and complying with international treaties that indicate best practices. At the same time, the Tribunal found that in coastal waters the coastal state bears primary responsibility for preventing IUU fishing and not the flag state.\n\nThe EU helped draw up FAO's international plan of action to prevent, deter and eliminate IUU fishing, endorsed by the FAO Council in June 2001. The EU then developed its own plan to implement the commitments agreed at international level, and the European Commission‘s action plan for the eradication of IUU fishing was published in May 2002. It is intended to be implemented at four levels:\n\nAt the EU level, more responsibility will be requested with regard to member state nationals acting under a flag of convenience. Moreover, market measures concerning fisheries products caught in violation of the international agreements will be adopted. In addition, information actions addressed to the fishing industry, consumers, and the public will be launched to raise their awareness.\n\nIn the framework of Regional Fisheries Management Organisations, control and inspection plans would be adopted as well as specific conservation and management measures. In addition IUU vessels would be identified and monitored and their catches would be quantified.\n\nAt the international level, concepts like genuine link would be defined, and a number of rights and obligations of the port state would be established. Moreover, the exchange of information on IUU activities and the international co-operation would be strengthened.\n\nIn partnership with developing countries, the necessary means would be provided to enable them to effectively control fishing activities undertaken in waters under their jurisdiction.\n\nThe High Seas Task Force comprises a group of fisheries ministers and international NGOs working together to develop an action plan designed to combat IUU fishing on the high seas.\n\nLaunched in 2003, the Task Force includes fisheries ministers from Australia, Canada, Chile, Namibia, New Zealand and the UK, together with the Earth Institute, IUCN-World Conservation Union, WWF International and the Marine Stewardship Council.\n\nThe goal of the Task Force is to set priorities among a series of practical proposals for confronting the challenge of IUU fishing on the high seas. A series of expert panels have been convened to identify the legal, economic, scientific and enforcement factors that permit IUU activity to thrive, and then determine key points of leverage that can brought to bear at national, regional, and global levels to minimise the incentives to carry out IUU fishing on the high seas. The completed action plan, published on 3 March 2006, will be placed by ministerial members of the Task Force directly in the hands of other ministers.\n\nRegional Fisheries Management Organisations (RFMOs) are affiliations of nations that co-ordinate efforts to manage fisheries in a particular region.\n\nRFMOs may focus on certain species of fish (e.g. the Commission for the Conservation of Southern bluefin tuna) or have a wider remit related to living marine resources in general within a region (e.g. the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR)). This wide diversity of mandates and areas of application, and also effective implementation of regulations, opens up opportunities for IUU vessels.\n\nThe present system of high seas governance has evolved over a period of several hundred years, the end result being a patchwork quilt of measures in the form of binding and non-binding instruments with different geographical and legal reaches and different levels of participation.\n\nMost legal instruments build on the foundation established by the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, which was agreed in 1982 and entered into force in 1992.\n\nThe UN Fish Stocks Agreement, which entered into force in 2001, sets out principles for the conservation and management of fish stocks and establishes that such management must be based on the precautionary approach and the best available scientific information. The Agreement provides a framework for cooperation on conservation and management, but since only about a third of the parties to the Law of the Sea Convention have ratified it, its impact is inevitably limited.\n\nThe UN Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) carries out much of the technical work on international fisheries management, and provides a forum for the negotiation of agreements and codes of conduct. In 1995 the FAO agreed its Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries to promote long-term sustainable management.\n\nIn 2001, the FAO adopted the International Plan of Action (IPOA) on IUU Fishing. The aim of this voluntary instrument is to prevent, deter and eliminate IUU fishing by providing all states with comprehensive, effective and transparent measures by which to act, including through appropriate regional fisheries management organisations established in accordance with international law.\n\nThe FAO Compliance Agreement, which entered into force in 2003, is designed to close a major loophole in international fisheries management, that of the circumvention of fisheries regulations by ‘re-flagging‘ vessels under the flags of states that are unable or unwilling to enforce such measures.\n\nIn 2009, the FAO brokered the Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing, which entered into force in 2016. The agreement closes ports to vessels suspected of illegal fishing. The treaty requires that fishing vessels request permission to dock and inform the port of the details of its fishing operations. Permission to dock can be denied if unregulated fishing was occurring. The measure is intended to block illegally caught fish from entering the marketplace. Other measures in the treaty include inspections of equipment, paperwork, catches, and ship's records. Though the treaty does not compel countries to apply these measures to ships under their own flags, they may choose to do so under the agreement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34745805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34745805", "title": "Johannes La Grouw", "text": "Johannes La Grouw\n\nJohannes La Grouw (5 August 1913 – 20 September 2011) was a Dutch-born New Zealand architect, engineer, businessman, artist and philanthropist. La Grouw developed a special patented house manufacturing system constructed of solid wood that eventually became a New Zealand icon for housing that can withstand the forces of nature, yet fit in nicely with them.\n\nLa Grouw was educated at Higher Technical School for Architecture and Engineering; Building Contractor Amsterdam, Holland 1948-51; Founding director, Lockwood Buildings Ltd. Life member, Outward Bound Trust.\n\nLa Grouw and Johannes Van Loghem (the co-founders of Lockwood Homes) began their unique company in 1951, by importing prefabricated homes from the Netherlands when Dutch migrants brought in crates of their own homes because of a building shortage. The company flourished and became a big player in the New Zealand construction industry.\n\nIn the 1991 Queen's Birthday Honours La Grouw was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for services to the building and construction industry. \n\nLa Grouw was inducted into the New Zealand Business Hall of Fame in 2007 for his revolutionary house construction system and contributions to business in New Zealand and abroad.\n"}
{"id": "36305130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36305130", "title": "John Bonner (businessman)", "text": "John Bonner (businessman)\n\nJohn Bonner is an English businessman, currently an owner of Orlando City Soccer Club.\n\nAn engineering graduate, John moved to Florida in 2004 after a successful business career initially in the UK amusement and gaming industry then later as a venture capitalist.\n\nNow living in the Dr Phillips area, John moved to the US to further the interests of his various UK companies, He has achieved this successfully whilst also helping his partner Bobby Moore create the widely acclaimed Big Fin Seafood Kitchen restaurant concept in the Dellagio on Sand Lake Road.\n\nA lifetime soccer fan and fervent supporter of twice European champions Nottingham Forest, John is delighted to be involved with Orlando City, \"I firmly believe soccer has a great future in the USA and particularly here in Orlando. I'm really looking forward to working with everyone concerned to hopefully bring some more sporting success to Central Florida.\"\n"}
{"id": "1726966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1726966", "title": "List of presidents of the Canadian National Railway Company", "text": "List of presidents of the Canadian National Railway Company\n\nList of presidents of the Canadian National Railway (CN) since 1919:\n\n"}
{"id": "50949709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50949709", "title": "Location Managers Guild Awards", "text": "Location Managers Guild Awards\n\nThe Location Managers Guild International Awards are awarded at an annual show honoring outstanding contributions to location scouting in the film and television industries. The Location Managers Guild held its inaugural show in March 2014 at the Writers Guild Theater in Beverly Hills, with honors going to Location Managers Robert Boake \"(Game of Thrones)\", Ilt Jones \"(Iron Man 3)\", David Doumeng & Charlie Love \"(Nike)\", and the Albuquerque Film Commission \"(Breaking Bad)\".\n\nFollowing the success of its first year, the LMGI has since continued to honor the outstanding creative contributions of location professionals around the world annually, currently held in conjunction with the AFCI Location Show in Los Angeles, CA.\n\nOriginally called the \"LMGA Awards\", the name of the awards changed with the guild's name change to reflect the international nature of filmmaking to the \"LMGI Awards\" in 2016.\n\nIn addition to the awards given for the best location professional in film, television, commercials, and film commission, the LMGI presents honorary awards to a location professional for lifetime achievement, to a trailblazer who has been a leader in furthering the recognition of location professionals in motion picture and television, a humanitarian award, and the Eva Monley award for an entertainment industry professional that has demonstrated 'above and beyond' support of the work of location professionals.\n\n\"Winner in bold at the top of the list\"\n\nDate: 7 April 2018 <br>\nLocation: Alex Theatre, Glendale, CA <br>\nHost: Jonah Ray <br>\nNotable Guests: Writer Laeta Kalogridis, actors Kevin Daniels, Dennis Haysbert, Tracie Thoms\n\nDate: 8 April 2017 <br>\nLocation: Warner Bros. Studios, Burbank, CA <br>\nHost: Rico Gagliano <br>\nNotable Guests: Directors Joe Pytka and Brad Silberling, author Michael Connelly, actors Amir Talai and Katherine Von Till\n\nDate: 23 April 2016 <br>\nLocation: Alex Theatre, Glendale, CA <br>\nHost: David Doumeng \"(2014 LMGA Award recipient)\" <br>\nNotable Guests: Directors Christopher Guest and Michael Mann, actors Jeff Goldblum, Tony Revolori, Milana Vayntrub\n\nDate: 7 March 2015 <br>\nLocation: Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, Beverly Hills, CA <br>\nHost: David Doumeng \"(2014 LMGA Award recipient)\" <br>\nNotable Guests: Debbie Allen, Tony Denison, Ted Lange, Alfre Woodard\n\nDate: 29 March 2014 <br>\nLocation: Writers Guild Theater, Beverly Hills, CA <br>\nHost: Jamie Kaler <br>\nNotable Guests: AMPAS President Cheryl Boone Isaacs, actors Shari Belafonte, Billy Crystal, Kate Linder\n\n\"The following list is arranged by number of wins, nominations, and last name in order of preference (current as of April 2018) :\"\n\n3+ Location Manager Wins\n\n2+ Location Manager Wins\n\n3+ Location Manager Nominations\n\n3+ Television Series Wins\n\n2+ Television Series Nominations\n\nWins by Network\n\n2+ Film Commission Nominations\n"}
{"id": "16578504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16578504", "title": "Louise Crane", "text": "Louise Crane\n\nLouise Crane (November 11, 1913 – October 20, 1997), a prominent American philanthropist. Crane was a friend to some of New York City’s leading literary figures, including Tennessee Williams and Marianne Moore. \n\nCrane's father was Winthrop Murray Crane, an American millionaire and former governor of Massachusetts. Her mother was Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) co-founder Josephine Porter Boardman. Louise smoothly moved into the role of patron of the arts. She was a prominent supporter of jazz and orchestral music, initiating a series of \"coffee concerts\" at MoMA and commissioning a vocal and orchestral work by Lukas Foss. She represented musicians, including Mary Lou Williams. Crane collaborated also with her mother in sponsoring musical works.\n\nCrane met Elizabeth Bishop while classmates together at Vassar in 1930. The pair traveled extensively in Europe and bought a house together in 1937 in Key West, Florida. While Bishop lived in Key West, Crane occasionally returned to New York. Crane developed a passionate interest in Billie Holiday in 1941.\n\nCrane published \"Ibérica\", a Spanish-language review, with her partner, Victoria Kent, from 1954 to 1974. \"Ibérica\" featured news for the expatriate Spanish community in the United States. Kent was a prominent member of the Spanish Republican party, opposed to Franco. Many prominent writers, including Salvador Madariaga, contributed to \"Ibérica\". \n\nFollowing her mother's death in 1972, Crane and Kent lived together in Woods Hole, Massachusetts, and Redding, Connecticut. Crane was the executor of Marianne Moore's estate after her death in 1972.\n\nCrane lived for years in an 18-room apartment on the fourth floor of the 820 Fifth Avenue building, a luxury cooperative in Manhattan, New York City. Located at the northeast corner of East 63rd Street on the Upper East Side, the 12 story limestone-clad was designed in the neo-Italian Renaissance palazzo style by Starrett & van Vleck, and was built by Fred T. Ley in 1916. The fourth floor is one of only a few units in the building which have changed hands multiple times in the last 10 or 20 years. After Crane’s death in 1997, the apartment was sold to Tommy Hilfiger for around $10,000,000.\n\nCrane and Kent are buried alongside each other at Umpawaug Cemetery, Redding, Connecticut.\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "33637635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33637635", "title": "Léon Eyrolles", "text": "Léon Eyrolles\n\nLéon Eyrolles (14 December 1861 in Tulle – 3 December 1945 in Cachan?) was a French politician and entrepreneur. In 1891 he created the first École Spéciale des Travaux Publics and later a correspondence school.\n\nEyrolles developed his educative skills as he helped fellow site managers to pass civil servant selective exams. In 1902 he bought a large piece of land to extend the school and in 1924 he became the mayor of the newly founded city of Cachan which was split from the city of Arcueil.\n\n"}
{"id": "37089466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37089466", "title": "Meta marketing", "text": "Meta marketing\n\nMeta marketing is \"the synthesis of all managerial, traditional, scientific, social and historical foundations of marketing,” a term first coined by E.J.Kelly while discussing the issue of ethics and science of marketing Thus, Meta Marketing is an attempt to widen the horizons of marketing by covering non-profit organisations. The best examples of Meta Marketing can be selling family planning ideas or the idea of prohibition.\nA Meta market will bring all buyers and sellers in one place for one purpose only. Instead of giving multiple products to one customer, a Meta market brings together different customers who need not necessarily differentiate between closely related products.\nMeta market is thus, a place, where everything connected with a certain market can be found. Let’s say a car selling in a Meta market would be a website, that sells cars but you will also find car parts there, add-ons for cars, colours for cars, mechanic’s reviews, etc. So Meta market of a certain market is a market, where you can find everything about that market and everything about markets that are strongly connected to that market.\n\nMeta marketing is an approach to the study of marketing and its relationship to every aspect of life by focussing on all social, ethical, scientific and business experience in marketing, thus establishing a body of knowledge base on the integration of every facet of experience with the human personality.\n\nThere can be two different ideologies associated with meta-marketing. One, as described above, is essentially bringing together closely related industries under one umbrella industry and the other is as follows:\n\nEven today, marketing is seen by many a CEO as a post-manufacturing activity, simply because all the elements (packaging, branding, distribution, selling, advertising, sales promotion), take place usually after the basic product is made. A hangover has remained of a product centred, rather than the consumer-centred frame of mind.\n\nUntil the Seventies, industrialists spent considerably more effort and money in deciding the investment in plant and machinery rather than the intricacies of marketing. Often, investment decisions were made pre-manufacturing of the product and hence, they failed to realise that the full potential of a product being sold can be maximised for customers not just by merely design and application, but also by integrating closely related products into one industry as a whole.\n\nAlso, the growth phase of many industries acted as a contributing factor as each product, no matter of what category was selling like hot-cakes. However, today, the situation has changed vastly. It’s all about mapping the customer’s brain and competitor’s strategies.\n\nToday, understanding and considering the environment in which the industry operates has also become increasingly important. Business policy makers have, of late, made it very evident that there is a need for a strategic intent and a single-minded focus on the industry.\n\nAlso, both corporate and marketing strategy thinkers, as well as consultants, are rediscovering the need to \"reshape the industry.\" It can be related to what Joseph Schumpeter of the Austrian School of economics discovered a long time ago namely, that the central component and the driving force behind industry evolution was Innovation.\n\nA meta-marketing thinker never replicates the marketing mix of the market leader or predecessor. Going as far away as possible from the \"success secret\" may be a less dangerous route to take. This version of Meta Marketing says that it is better to do something different, rather than follow what the industry is doing.\n\nAs S. Ramachander highlights, “such insight inevitably precedes creating a new competitive paradigm, including rewriting the rulebook itself and changing the rules of the game. In an increasingly competitive and transnational arena, marketing companies will have to ponder more and more about not just an offering that is different or better, but one that is an expression of a marketing insight.” \n\n"}
{"id": "14824011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14824011", "title": "Moon Kook-hyun", "text": "Moon Kook-hyun\n\nMoon Kook-hyun (Korean: 문국현, Hanja: 文國現, born 12 January 1949) is the leader of the Creative Korea Party, who served as a well-known business manager and civil environmental campaigner in South Korea before entering his political career.\n\nBorn in Seoul, Moon studied English language at the Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, graduating with a BA in 1972, then took a postgraduate course in Business Administration at the Seoul National University.\n\nMoon began his career at Yuhan-Kimberly(), a company manufacturing paper and woven fibre products. In 1983, he spent a year in the United States, taking some new management concepts. On his return, he developed the concept of \"environmental management\", focusing on digital printing technologies and the use of recycled paper.\n\nIn 1995, Moon became Chief Executive Officer of Yuhan-Kimberly. In 1996, Moon was appointed committee director of the U.N. Environment (UNEP) Korea Development Organization. Faced with a financial crisis in 1997, he developed a new shift system where workers worked twelve-hours shifts for four days running, then took four days off.\n\nIn August 2007, Moon resigned from Yuhan-Kimberly to run in the South Korean presidential election, 2007. In October, he formed the Creative Korea Party, with an anti-corruption, pro-environmentalist program, gaining a bit of support from liberal voters who supported the Participatory Government, conservative voters who wanted to change the government and liked a similar 'business leader' portfolio but disliked Lee Myung-bak, and from the labor movement.\n\nIn the election, Moon won 5.8% of the votes for fourth place. Moon is a Roman Catholic.\n\nOn April 9, 2008, Moon beat the close confidante of Lee Myung-bak (president) Lee Jae-oh (GNP, Incumbent), by more than 11%. Although the harsh loss of South Korean liberal candidates especially in Seoul at this 2008 election, his campaign against 'the Grand Korean Canal' project boosted his popularity in his electoral division and across the nation.\n\nGrassroot Organizations\n"}
{"id": "22256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22256", "title": "Objectivism (Ayn Rand)", "text": "Objectivism (Ayn Rand)\n\nObjectivism is a philosophical system developed by Russian-American writer Ayn Rand. Rand first expressed Objectivism in her fiction, most notably \"The Fountainhead\" (1943) and \"Atlas Shrugged\" (1957), and later in non-fiction essays and books. Leonard Peikoff, a professional philosopher and Rand's designated intellectual heir, later gave it a more formal structure. Rand described Objectivism as \"the concept of man as a heroic being, with his own happiness as the moral purpose of his life, with productive achievement as his noblest activity, and reason as his only absolute\". Peikoff characterizes Objectivism as a \"closed system\" that is not subject to change.\n\nObjectivism's central tenets are that reality exists independently of consciousness, that human beings have direct contact with reality through sense perception (see \"Direct and indirect realism\"), that one can attain objective knowledge from perception through the process of concept formation and inductive logic, that the proper moral purpose of one's life is the pursuit of one's own happiness (see \"Rational egoism\"), that the only social system consistent with this morality is one that displays full respect for individual rights embodied in \"laissez-faire\" capitalism, and that the role of art in human life is to transform humans' metaphysical ideas by selective reproduction of reality into a physical form—a work of art—that one can comprehend and to which one can respond emotionally.\n\nAcademic philosophers have mostly ignored or rejected Rand's philosophy. Nonetheless, Objectivism has been a significant influence among right-libertarians and American conservatives. The Objectivist movement, which Rand founded, attempts to spread her ideas to the public and in academic settings.\n\nRand originally expressed her philosophical ideas in her novels, most notably, \"The Fountainhead\" and \"Atlas Shrugged\". She further elaborated on them in her periodicals \"The Objectivist Newsletter\", \"The Objectivist\", and \"The Ayn Rand Letter\", and in non-fiction books such as \"Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology\" and \"The Virtue of Selfishness\".\n\nThe name \"Objectivism\" derives from the idea that human knowledge and values are objective: they exist and are determined by the nature of reality, to be discovered by one's mind, and are not created by the thoughts one has. Rand stated that she chose the name because her preferred term for a philosophy based on the primacy of existence—\"existentialism\"—had already been taken.\n\nRand characterized Objectivism as \"a philosophy for living on earth\", grounded in reality, and aimed at defining human nature and the nature of the world in which we live.\nRand's philosophy begins with three axioms: existence, consciousness, and identity. Rand defined an axiom as \"a statement that identifies the base of knowledge and of any further statement pertaining to that knowledge, a statement necessarily contained in all others whether any particular speaker chooses to identify it or not. An axiom is a proposition that defeats its opponents by the fact that they have to accept it and use it in the process of any attempt to deny it.\" As Objectivist philosopher Leonard Peikoff argued, Rand's argument for axioms \"is not a proof that the axioms of existence, consciousness, and identity are true. It is proof that they are \"axioms\", that they are at the base of knowledge and thus inescapable.\"\n\nRand held that \"existence\" is the perceptually self-evident fact at the base of all other knowledge, i.e., that \"existence exists.\" She further held that to be is to be \"something\", that \"existence \"is\" identity.\" That is, to be is to be \"an entity of a specific nature made of specific attributes.\" That which has no nature or attributes does not and cannot exist. The axiom of existence is grasped in differentiating something from nothing, while the law of identity is grasped in differentiating one thing from another, i.e., one's first awareness of the law of non-contradiction, another crucial base for the rest of knowledge. As Rand wrote, \"A leaf ... cannot be all red and green at the same time, it cannot freeze and burn at the same time... A is A.\" Objectivism rejects belief in anything alleged to transcend existence.\n\nRand argued that consciousness is \"the faculty of perceiving that which exists.\" As she put it, \"to be conscious is to be conscious of \"something\"\", that is consciousness itself cannot be distinguished or grasped except in relation to an independent reality. \"It cannot be aware only of itself—there is no 'itself' until it is aware of something.\" Thus, Objectivism holds that the mind does not create reality, but rather, it is a means of discovering reality. Expressed differently, existence has \"primacy\" over consciousness, which must conform to it. Any other approach Rand termed \"the primacy of consciousness\", including any variant of metaphysical subjectivism or theism.\n\nObjectivist philosophy derives its explanations of action and causation from the axiom of identity, calling causation \"the law of identity applied to action.\" According to Rand, it is entities that act, and every action is the action of an entity. The way entities act is caused by the specific nature (or \"identity\") of those entities; if they were different they would act differently. As with the other axioms, an implicit understanding of causation is derived from one's primary observations of causal connections among entities even before it is verbally identified, and serves as the basis of further knowledge.\n\nAccording to Rand, attaining knowledge beyond what is given in perception requires both volition (or the exercise of free will) and adherence to a specific method of validation through observation, concept-formation, and the application of inductive and deductive reasoning. For example, a belief in dragons, however sincere, does not mean reality contains any dragons. A process of proof identifying the basis in reality of a claimed item of knowledge is necessary to establish its truth.\n\nObjectivist epistemology begins with the principle that \"consciousness is identification\". This is understood to be a direct consequence of the metaphysical principle that \"existence is identity.\" Rand defined \"reason\" as \"the faculty that identifies and integrates the material provided by man's senses.\" Says Rand, \"The fundamental concept of method, the one on which all the others depend, is logic. The distinguishing characteristic of logic (the art of non-contradictory identification) indicates the nature of the actions (actions of consciousness required to achieve a correct identification) and their goal (knowledge)—while omitting the length, complexity or specific steps of the process of logical inference, as well as the nature of the particular cognitive problem involved in any given instance of using logic.\"\n\nAccording to Rand, consciousness possesses a specific and finite identity, just like everything else that exists; therefore, it must operate by a specific method of validation. An item of knowledge cannot be \"disqualified\" by being arrived at by a specific process in a particular form. Thus, for Rand, the fact that consciousness must itself possess identity implies the rejection of both universal skepticism based on the \"limits\" of consciousness, as well as any claim to revelation, emotion or faith based belief.\n\nObjectivist epistemology maintains that all knowledge is ultimately based on perception. \"Percepts, not sensations, are the given, the self-evident.\" Rand considered the validity of the senses to be axiomatic, and claimed that purported arguments to the contrary all commit the fallacy of the \"stolen concept\" by presupposing the validity of concepts that, in turn, presuppose the validity of the senses. She held that perception, being physiologically determined, is incapable of error. For example, optical illusions are errors in the conceptual identification of what is seen, not errors in sight itself. The validity of sense perception, therefore, is not susceptible to proof (because it is presupposed by all proof as proof is only a matter of adducing sensory evidence) nor should its validity be denied (since the conceptual tools one would have to use to do this are derived from sensory data). Perceptual error, therefore, is not possible. Rand consequently rejected epistemological skepticism, as she holds that the skeptics' claim to knowledge \"distorted\" by the form or the means of perception is impossible.\n\nThe Objectivist theory of perception distinguishes between the \"form\" and \"object.\" The form in which an organism perceives is determined by the physiology of its sensory systems. Whatever form the organism perceives it in, what it perceives—the object of perception—is reality. Rand consequently rejected the Kantian dichotomy between \"things as we perceive them\" and \"things as they are in themselves.\" Says Rand, \"The attack on man's consciousness and particularly on his conceptual faculty has rested on the unchallenged premise that any knowledge acquired by a \"process\" of consciousness is necessarily subjective and cannot correspond to the facts of reality, since it is \"\"processed\" knowledge...[but] all knowledge \"is\" processed knowledge—whether on the sensory, perceptual or conceptual level. An \"unprocessed\" knowledge would be a knowledge acquired without means of cognition.\"\n\nThe aspect of epistemology given the most elaboration by Rand is the theory of concept-formation, which she presented in \"Introduction to Objectivist Epistemology\". She argued that concepts are formed by a process of measurement omission. Peikoff described her view as follows:\n\nAccording to Rand, \"[T]he term 'measurements omitted' does not mean, in this context, that measurements are regarded as non-existent; it means that \"measurements exist, but are not specified\". That measurements \"must\" exist is an essential part of the process. The principle is: the relevant measurements must exist in \"some\" quantity, but may exist in \"any\" quantity.\"\n\nRand argued that concepts are hierarchically organized. Concepts such as 'dog,' which bring together \"concretes\" available in perception, can be differentiated (into the concepts of 'dachshund,' 'poodle,' etc.) or integrated (along with 'cat,' etc., into the concept of 'animal'). Abstract concepts such as 'animal' can be further integrated, via \"abstraction from abstractions\", into such concepts as 'living thing.' Concepts are formed in the context of knowledge available. A young child differentiates dogs from cats and chickens, but need not explicitly differentiate them from deep-sea tube worms, or from other types of animals not yet known to him, to form a concept 'dog.'\n\nBecause of its view of concepts as \"open-ended\" classifications that go well beyond the characteristics included in their past or current definitions, Objectivist epistemology rejects the analytic-synthetic distinction as a false dichotomy and denies the possibility of \"a priori\" knowledge.\n\nRand rejected \"feeling\" as sources of knowledge. Rand acknowledged the importance of emotion for human beings, but she maintained that emotions are a consequence of the conscious or subconscious ideas that a person already accepts, not a means of achieving awareness of reality. \"Emotions are not tools of cognition.\" Rand also rejected all forms of faith or mysticism, terms that she used synonymously. She defined faith as \"the acceptance of allegations without evidence or proof, either apart from or \"against\" the evidence of one's senses and reason... Mysticism is the claim to some non-sensory, non-rational, non-definable, non-identifiable means of knowledge, such as 'instinct,' 'intuition,' 'revelation,' or any form of 'just knowing.'\" Reliance on revelation is like reliance on a Ouija board; it bypasses the need to show how it connects its results to reality. Faith, for Rand, is not a \"short-cut\" to knowledge, but a \"short-circuit\" destroying it.\n\nObjectivism acknowledges the facts that human beings have limited knowledge, are vulnerable to error, and do not instantly understand all of the implications of their knowledge. According to Peikoff, one can be certain of a proposition if all of the available evidence supports it, i.e., it can be logically integrated with the rest of one's knowledge; one is then certain within the context of the evidence.\n\nRand rejected the traditional rationalist/empiricist dichotomy, arguing that it embodies a false alternative: conceptually-based knowledge independent of perception (rationalism) versus perceptually-based knowledge independent of concepts (empiricism). Rand argued that neither is possible because the senses provide the material of knowledge while conceptual processing is also needed to establish knowable propositions.\n\nThe philosopher John Hospers, who was influenced by Rand and shared her moral and political views, disagreed with her over issues of epistemology. Some philosophers, such as Tibor Machan, have argued that the Objectivist epistemology is incomplete.\n\nPsychology professor Robert L. Campbell says the relationship between Objectivist epistemology and cognitive science remains unclear because Rand made claims about human cognition and its development which belong to psychology, yet Rand also argued that philosophy is logically prior to psychology and in no way dependent on it.\n\nThe philosophers Randall Dipert and Roderick Long have argued that Objectivist epistemology conflates the perceptual process by which judgments are formed with the way in which they are to be justified, thereby leaving it unclear how sensory data can validate propositionally structured judgments.\n\nObjectivism includes an extensive treatment of ethical concerns. Rand wrote on morality in her works \"The Virtue of Selfishness,\" \"We the Living,\" and \"Atlas Shrugged\". Rand defines morality as \"a code of values to guide man's choices and actions—the choices and actions that determine the purpose and the course of his life.\" Rand maintained that the first question is not what should the code of values be, the first question is \"Does man need values at all—and why?\" According to Rand, \"it is only the concept of 'Life' that makes the concept of 'Value' possible,\" and, \"the fact that a living entity \"is\", determines what it \"ought\" to do.\" Rand writes: \"there is only one fundamental alternative in the universe: existence or non-existence—and it pertains to a single class of entities: to living organisms. The existence of inanimate matter is unconditional, the existence of life is not: it depends on a specific course of action... It is only a living organism that faces a constant alternative: the issue of life or death...\"\n\nRand argued that the primary focus of man's free will is in the choice: 'to think or not to think'. \"Thinking is not an automatic function. In any hour and issue of his life, man is free to think or to evade that effort. Thinking requires a state of full, focused awareness. The act of focusing one's consciousness is volitional. Man can focus his mind to a full, active, purposefully directed awareness of reality—or he can unfocus it and let himself drift in a semiconscious daze, merely reacting to any chance stimulus of the immediate moment, at the mercy of his undirected sensory-perceptual mechanism and of any random, associational connections it might happen to make.\" According to Rand, therefore, possessing free will, human beings must \"choose\" their values: one does not \"automatically\" hold one's own life as his ultimate value. Whether in fact a person's actions promote and fulfill his own life or not is a question of fact, as it is with all other organisms, but whether a person will act to promote his well-being is up to him, not hard-wired into his physiology. \"Man has the power to act as his own destroyer—and that is the way he has acted through most of his history.\"\n\nSays Rand, \"Man's mind is his basic tool of survival. Life is given to him, survival is not. His body is given to him, its sustenance is not. His mind is given to him, its content is not. To remain alive he must act and before he can act he must know the nature and purpose of his action. He cannot obtain his food without knowledge of food and of the way to obtain it. He cannot dig a ditch—or build a cyclotron—without a knowledge of his aim and the means to achieve it. To remain alive, he must think.\" In her novels, \"The Fountainhead\" and \"Atlas Shrugged\", she also emphasizes the central importance of productive work, romantic love and art to human happiness, and dramatizes the ethical character of their pursuit. The primary virtue in Objectivist ethics is rationality, as Rand meant it \"the recognition and acceptance of reason as one's only source of knowledge, one's only judge of values and one's only guide to action.\"\n\nThe purpose of a moral code, Rand held, is to provide the principles by reference to which man can achieve the values his survival requires. Rand summarizes:\n\nRand's explanation of values presents the view that an individual's primary moral obligation is to achieve his own well-being—it is for his life and his self-interest that an individual ought to adhere to a moral code. Ethical egoism is a corollary of setting man's life as the moral standard. Rand believed that rational egoism is the logical consequence of humans following evidence wherever it leads them. The only alternative would be that they live without orientation to reality.\n\nA corollary to Rand's endorsement of self-interest is her rejection of the ethical doctrine of altruism—which she defined in the sense of Auguste Comte's altruism (he coined the term), as a moral obligation to live for the sake of others. Rand also rejected subjectivism. A \"whim-worshiper\" or \"hedonist,\" according to Rand, is not motivated by a desire to live his own human life, but by a wish to live on a sub-human level. Instead of using \"that which promotes my (human) life\" as his standard of value, he mistakes \"that which I (mindlessly happen to) value\" for a standard of value, in contradiction of the fact that, existentially, he is a human and therefore rational organism. The \"I value\" in whim-worship or hedonism can be replaced with \"we value,\" \"he values,\" \"they value,\" or \"God values,\" and still it would remain dissociated from reality. Rand repudiated the equation of rational selfishness with hedonistic or whim-worshiping \"selfishness-without-a-self.\" She held that the former is good, and the latter evil, and that there is a fundamental difference between them.\n\nFor Rand, all of the principal virtues are applications of the role of reason as man's basic tool of survival: rationality, honesty, justice, independence, integrity, productiveness, and pride—each of which she explains in some detail in \"The Objectivist Ethics.\" The essence of Objectivist ethics is summarized by the oath her \"Atlas Shrugged\" character John Galt adhered to: \"I swear—by my life and my love of it—that I will never live for the sake of another man, nor ask another man to live for mine.\"\n\nMany philosophers have criticized Objectivist ethics. The philosopher Robert Nozick argues that Rand's foundational argument in ethics is unsound because it does not explain why someone could not rationally prefer dying and having no values. He argues that her attempt to defend the morality of selfishness is, therefore, an instance of begging the question. Nozick also argues that Rand's solution to David Hume's famous is-ought problem is unsatisfactory. In response, the philosophers Douglas B. Rasmussen and Douglas Den Uyl have argued that Nozick misstated Rand's case.\n\nCharles King criticized Rand's example of an indestructible robot to demonstrate the value of life as incorrect and confusing. In response, Paul St. F. Blair defended Rand's ethical conclusions, while maintaining that his arguments might not have been approved by Rand.\n\nRand's defense of individual liberty integrates elements from her entire philosophy. Since reason is the means of human knowledge, it is therefore each person's most fundamental means of survival and is necessary to the achievement of values. The use or threat of force neutralizes the practical effect of an individual's reason, whether the force originates from the state or from a criminal. According to Rand, \"man's mind will not function at the point of a gun.\" Therefore, the only type of organized human behavior consistent with the operation of reason is that of voluntary cooperation. Persuasion is the method of reason. By its nature, the overtly irrational cannot rely on the use of persuasion and must ultimately resort to force to prevail. Thus, Rand saw reason and freedom as correlates, just as she saw mysticism and force as corollaries. Based on this understanding of the role of reason, Objectivists hold that the initiation of physical force against the will of another is immoral, as are indirect initiations of force through threats, fraud, or breach of contract. The use of defensive or retaliatory force, on the other hand, is appropriate.\n\nObjectivism holds that because the opportunity to use reason without the initiation of force is necessary to achieve moral values, each individual has an inalienable moral right to act as his own judgment directs and to keep the product of his effort. Peikoff, explaining the basis of rights, stated, \"In content, as the founding fathers recognized, there is one fundamental right, which has several major derivatives. The fundamental right is the right to life. Its major derivatives are the right to liberty, property, and the pursuit of happiness.\" \"A 'right' is a moral principle defining and sanctioning a man's freedom of action in a social context.\" These rights are specifically understood to be rights to action, not to specific results or objects, and the obligations created by rights are negative in nature: each individual must refrain from violating the rights of others. Objectivists reject alternative notions of rights, such as positive rights, collective rights, or animal rights. Objectivism holds that the only social system which fully recognizes individual rights is capitalism, specifically what Rand described as \"full, pure, uncontrolled, unregulated laissez-faire capitalism.\" Objectivism regards capitalism as the social system which is most beneficial to the poor, but does not consider this its primary justification. Rather, it is the only moral social system. Objectivism maintains that only societies seeking to establish freedom (or free nations) have a right to self-determination.\n\nObjectivism views government as \"the means of placing the retaliatory use of physical force under objective control—i.e., under objectively defined laws;\" thus, government is both legitimate and critically important in order to protect individual rights. Rand opposed anarchism because she saw putting police and courts on the market as an inherent miscarriage of justice. Objectivism holds that the proper functions of a government are \"\"the police\", to protect men from criminals—\"the armed services\", to protect men from foreign invaders—\"the law courts\", to settle disputes among men according to objectively defined laws,\" the executive, and legislatures. Furthermore, in protecting individual rights, the government is acting as an agent of its citizens and \"has no rights except the rights \"delegated\" to it by the citizens\" and it must act in an impartial manner according to specific, objectively defined laws. Prominent Objectivists Peikoff and Yaron Brook have since expressed support for other government functions.\n\nRand argued that limited intellectual property monopolies being granted to certain inventors and artists on a first-to-file basis are moral because she viewed all property as fundamentally intellectual. Furthermore, the value of a commercial product comes in part from the necessary work of its inventors. However, Rand viewed limits on patents and copyrights as important and held that if they were granted in perpetuity, it would necessarily lead to \"de facto\" collectivism.\n\nRand opposed racism and any legal application of racism. She considered affirmative action to be an example of legal racism. Rand advocated the right to legal abortion. Rand believed capital punishment is morally justified as retribution against a murderer, but dangerous due to the risk of mistakenly executing innocent people and opening the door to state murder. She therefore said she opposed capital punishment \"on epistemological, not moral, grounds.\" She opposed involuntary military conscription. She opposed any form of censorship, including legal restrictions on pornography, opinion or worship, famously quipping; \"In the transition to statism, every infringement of human rights has begun with a given right's least attractive practitioners\".\n\nObjectivists have also opposed a number of government activities commonly supported by both liberals and conservatives, including antitrust laws, the minimum wage, public education, and existing child labor laws. Objectivists have argued against faith-based initiatives, displaying religious symbols in government facilities, and the teaching of \"intelligent design\" in public schools. Maintaining that it should be phased out gradually, Rand opposed taxation as she considered it theft and an endorsement of force over reason.\n\nSome critics, including economists and political philosophers such as, Murray Rothbard, David D. Friedman, Roy Childs, Norman P. Barry, and Chandran Kukathas, have argued that Objectivist ethics are consistent with anarcho-capitalism instead of minarchism.\n\nThe Objectivist theory of art flows from its epistemology, by way of \"psycho-epistemology\" (Rand's term for an individual's characteristic mode of functioning in acquiring knowledge). Art, according to Objectivism, serves a human cognitive need: it allows human beings to grasp concepts as though they were percepts. Objectivism defines \"art\" as a \"selective re-creation of reality according to an artist's metaphysical value-judgments\"—that is, according to what the artist believes to be ultimately true and important about the nature of reality and humanity. In this respect Objectivism regards art as a way of presenting abstractions concretely, in perceptual form.\n\nThe human need for art, on this view, stems from the need for cognitive economy. A concept is already a sort of mental shorthand standing for a large number of concretes, allowing a human being to think indirectly or implicitly of many more such concretes than can be held explicitly in mind. But a human being cannot hold indefinitely many concepts explicitly in mind either—and yet, on the Objectivist view, needs a comprehensive conceptual framework to provide guidance in life. Art offers a way out of this dilemma by providing a perceptual, easily grasped means of communicating and thinking about a wide range of abstractions, including one's metaphysical value-judgments. Objectivism regards art as an effective way to communicate a moral or ethical ideal. Objectivism does not, however, regard art as propagandistic: even though art involves moral values and ideals, its purpose is not to educate, only to show or project. Moreover, art need not be, and usually is not, the outcome of a full-blown, explicit philosophy. Usually it stems from an artist's \"sense of life\" (which is preconceptual and largely emotional).\n\nThe end goal of Rand's own artistic endeavors was to portray the ideal man. \"The Fountainhead\" is the best example of this effort. Rand uses the character of Roark to embody the concept of the higher man which she believes is what great art should do - embody the characteristics of the best of humanity. This higher symbolism should be represented in all art; artistic expression should be an extension of the greatness in humanity.\n\nRand held that Romanticism was the highest school of literary art, noting that Romanticism was \"based on the recognition of the principle that man possesses the faculty of volition,\" absent which, Rand believed, literature is robbed of dramatic power, adding:\n\nThe term \"romanticism,\" however, is often affiliated with emotionalism, to which Objectivism is completely opposed. Historically, many romantic artists were philosophically subjectivist. Most Objectivists who are also artists subscribe to what they call romantic realism, which is how Rand labeled her own work.\n\nSeveral authors have developed and applied Rand's ideas in their own work. Rand described Peikoff's \"The Ominous Parallels\" (1982), as \"the first book by an Objectivist philosopher other than myself.\" In 1991, Peikoff published \"\", a comprehensive exposition of Rand's philosophy. Chris Matthew Sciabarra discusses Rand's ideas and theorizes about their intellectual origins in \"\" (1995). Surveys such as \"On Ayn Rand\" by Allan Gotthelf (1999), \"Ayn Rand\" by Tibor R. Machan (2000), and \"Objectivism in One Lesson\" by Andrew Bernstein (2009) provide briefer introductions to Rand's ideas.\n\nSome scholars have focused on applying Objectivism in more specific areas. Machan has developed Rand's contextual conception of human knowledge (while also drawing on the insights of J. L. Austin and Gilbert Harman) in works such as \"Objectivity\" (2004), and David Kelley has explicated Rand's epistemological ideas in works such as \"The Evidence of the Senses\" (1986) and \"A Theory of Abstraction\" (2001). In the field of ethics, Kelley has argued in works such as \"Unrugged Individualism\" (1996) and \"The Contested Legacy of Ayn Rand\" (2000) that Objectivists should pay more attention to the virtue of benevolence and place less emphasis on issues of moral sanction. Kelley's views have been controversial, and critics Peikoff and Peter Schwartz have argued that he contradicts important principles of Objectivism. Kelley has used the term \"Open Objectivism\" for a version of Objectivism that involves \"a commitment to reasoned, non-dogmatic discussion and debate,\" \"the recognition that Objectivism is open to expansion, refinement, and revision,\" and \"a policy of benevolence toward others, including fellow-travelers and critics.\" Arguing against Kelley, Peikoff characterized Objectivism as a \"closed system\" that is not subject to change.\n\nAn author who focuses on Rand's ethics, Tara Smith, stays closer to Rand's original ideas in such works as \"Moral Rights and Political Freedom\" (1995), \"Viable Values\" (2000), and \"Ayn Rand's Normative Ethics\" (2006). In collaboration with Peikoff, David Harriman has developed a theory of scientific induction based upon Rand's theory of concepts in \"The Logical Leap: Induction in Physics\" (2010).\n\nThe political aspects of Rand's philosophy are discussed by Bernstein in \"The Capitalist Manifesto\" (2005). In \"Capitalism: A Treatise on Economics\" (1996), George Reisman attempts to integrate Objectivist methodology and insights with both Classical and Austrian economics. In psychology, Professor Edwin A. Locke and Ellen Kenner have explored Rand's ideas in \"The Selfish Path to Romance: How to Love with Passion & Reason\". Other writers have explored the application of Objectivism to fields ranging from art, as in \"What Art Is\" by Louis Torres and Michelle Marder Kamhi (2000), to teleology, as in \"The Biological Basis of Teleological Concepts\" by Harry Binswanger (1990).\n\nAccording to one Rand biographer, most people first read Rand's works in their \"formative years.\" Rand's former protégé Nathaniel Branden referred to Rand's \"especially powerful appeal to the young,\" while Onkar Ghate of the Ayn Rand Institute said Rand \"appeals to the idealism of youth.\" This appeal has alarmed a number of critics of the philosophy. Many of these young people later abandon their positive view of Rand and are often said to have \"outgrown\" her ideas. Supporters of Rand's work recognize the phenomenon, but attribute it to the loss of youthful idealism and inability to resist social pressures for intellectual conformity. In contrast, historian Jennifer Burns, writing in \"Goddess of the Market\" (2009), says some critics \"dismiss Rand as a shallow thinker appealing only to adolescents,\" although she thinks the critics \"miss her significance\" as a \"gateway drug\" to right-wing politics.\n\nAcademic philosophers have generally dismissed Objectivism since Rand first presented it. Objectivism has been called \"fiercely anti-academic\" because of Rand's criticism of contemporary intellectuals. David Sidorsky, a professor of moral and political philosophy at Columbia University, says Rand's work is \"outside the mainstream\" and is more of an ideological movement than a well-grounded philosophy. British philosopher Ted Honderich notes that he deliberately excluded an article on Rand from \"The Oxford Companion to Philosophy\" (Rand is, however, mentioned in the article on popular philosophy by Anthony Quinton). Rand is the subject of entries in the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", \"The Dictionary of Modern American Philosophers\", the \"Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", \"The Routledge Dictionary of Twentieth-Century Political Thinkers\", and \"The Penguin Dictionary of Philosophy\". A listing of Rand also appears in the \"Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", featuring the assessment, \"The influence of Rand's ideas was strongest among college students in the USA but attracted little attention from academic philosophers. Her outspoken defense of capitalism in works like \"\" (1967), and her characterization of her position as a defence of the 'virtue of selfishness' in her essay collection of the same title published in 1964, also brought notoriety, but kept her out of the intellectual mainstream.\"\n\nIn recent decades Rand's works are more likely to be encountered in the classroom. The Ayn Rand Society, dedicated to fostering the scholarly study of Objectivism, is affiliated with the American Philosophical Association's Eastern Division. Aristotle scholar and Objectivist Allan Gotthelf, late chairman of the Society, and his colleagues argued for more academic study of Objectivism, viewing the philosophy as a unique and intellectually interesting defense of classical liberalism that is worth debating. In 1999, a refereed \"Journal of Ayn Rand Studies\" began. In 2006, the University of Pittsburgh held a conference focusing on Objectivism. Programs and fellowships for the study of Objectivism have been supported at the University of Pittsburgh, University of Texas at Austin and University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "515409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=515409", "title": "Offshore company", "text": "Offshore company\n\nThe term \"offshore company\" or \"offshore corporation\" is used in at least two distinct and different ways. An offshore company may be a reference to:\n\nThe former use (companies formed in offshore jurisdictions) is probably the more common usage of the term. In isolated instances the term can also be used in reference to companies with offshore oil and gas operations.\n\nIn relation to companies and similar entities which are incorporated in offshore jurisdictions, the use of both the words \"offshore\" and \"company\" can be varied in application.\n\nThe extent to which a jurisdiction is regarded as offshore is often a question of perception and degree. Classic tax haven countries such as Bermuda, British Virgin Islands and the Cayman Islands are quintessentially offshore jurisdictions, and companies incorporated in those jurisdictions are invariably labelled as offshore companies. Thereafter there are certain small intermediate countries or areas such as Hong Kong and Singapore (sometimes referred to as \"mid-shore\" jurisdictions) which, whilst having oversized financial centres, are not zero tax regimes. Finally, there are classes of industrialised economies which can be used as part of tax mitigation structures, including countries like Ireland, the Netherlands and even the United Kingdom, particularly in commentary relating to corporate inversion. Furthermore, in Federal systems, states which operate like a classic offshore centre can result in corporations formed there being labelled as offshore, even if they form part of the largest economy in the world (for example, Delaware in the United States).\n\nSimilarly, the term \"company\" is used loosely, and at its widest can be taken to refer to any type of artificial entity, including not just corporations and companies, but potentially also LLCs, LPs, LLPs, and sometimes partnerships or even offshore trusts.\n\nHistorically, offshore companies were broadly divided into two categories. On the one hand were companies which were statutorily exempt from taxation in their jurisdiction of registration provided that they did not undertake business with persons resident in that jurisdiction. Such companies were usually called International Business Companies, or IBCs. Such companies were largely popularized by the British Virgin Islands, but the model was copied widely. However, in the early 2000s the OECD launched a global initiative to prevent \"ring fencing\" of taxation in this manner, and many leading jurisdictions (including the British Virgin Islands and Gibraltar) repealed their International Business Companies legislation. But IBCs are still incorporated in a number of jurisdictions today including Anguilla and Panama.\n\nSeparately from IBCs, there are countries which operate tax regimes which broadly achieve the same effect: so long as the company's activities are carried on overseas, and none of the profits are repatriated, the company is not subject to taxation in its home jurisdiction. Where the home jurisdiction is regarded as an offshore jurisdiction, such companies are commonly regarded as offshore companies. Examples of this include Hong Kong and Uruguay. However, these tax regimes are not limited to conventional offshore jurisdictions: the United Kingdom operates on broadly similar principles in relation to taxation of companies.\n\nSeparately there are offshore jurisdictions which simply do not impose any form of taxation on companies, and so their companies are de facto tax exempt. Historically the best example of these countries were the Cayman Islands and Bermuda, although other countries such as the British Virgin Islands have now moved to this model. These could arguably fit into either of the previous two categories, depending on the fiscal point of view involved.\n\nTo the Offshore Company definition, applies five (non-cumulative) limiting conditions:\n(1) The government in the country of incorporation does not levy an indirect tax on the OAC (however, the OSC must pay an annual fee to the government).\n(2) Separate laws and regulations apply.\n(3) The OSC doesn’t have its own physical office (address), personnel, means of communication etc. This means that the OAC must have a representative (registered agent) and office address (registered office) in the county of the incorporation.\n(4) The OSC must be managed and governed by (an employee of) a local trust or law office.\n(5) There is an instance of elements that benefit anonymity such as bearer shares and no or limited filing obligations.\n\nAlthough all offshore companies differ to a degree depending upon the corporate law in the relevant jurisdiction, all offshore companies tend to enjoy certain core characteristics:\n\nThe absence of taxation or regulation in the home jurisdiction does not, of course, exempt the relevant company from taxation or regulation abroad. For example, Michael Kors Holdings Limited is incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, but is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, where it is subject both the U.S. taxation and to financial regulation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.\n\nAnother common characteristic of offshore companies is the limited amount of information available to the public. This varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. At one end of the scale, in the Cayman Islands and Delaware, there is virtually no publicly available information. But at the other end of the scale, in Hong Kong companies file annual returns with particulars of directors, shareholders and annual accounts. However, even in jurisdictions where there is relatively little information available to the public as of right, most jurisdictions have laws which permit law enforcement authorities (either locally or from overseas) to have access to relevant information, and in some cases, private individuals.\n\nIn relation to flexible corporate law, most offshore jurisdictions will normally remove corporate fetters such as thin capitalisation rules, financial assistance rules, and limitations on corporate capacity and corporate benefit. A number have also removed or watered down rules relating to maintenance of capital or restrictions on payment of dividends. Beyond the common themes, a number of jurisdictions have also enacted special corporate provisions to try and attract business through offering corporate mechanisms that allow complex business transactions or reorganisations to occur more smoothly.\n\nOffshore companies are used for a variety of commercial and private purposes, some legitimate and economically beneficial, whilst others may be harmful or even criminal. Allegations are frequently made in the press about offshore companies being used for money laundering, tax evasion, fraud, and other forms of white collar crime. Offshore companies are also used in a wide variety of commercial transactions from generic holding companies, to joint ventures and listing vehicles. Offshore companies are also used widely in connection with private wealth for tax mitigation and privacy. The use of offshore companies, particularly in tax planning, has become controversial in recent years, and a number of high-profile companies have ceased using offshore entities in their group structure as a result of public campaigns for such companies to pay their \"fair share\" of Government taxes.\n\nDetailed information in relation to the use of offshore companies is notoriously difficult to come by because of the opaque nature of much of the business (and because, in many cases, the companies are used specifically to preserve the confidentiality of a transaction or individual). It is a commonly held view that most uses of offshore companies are driven by tax mitigation and/or regulatory arbitrage, although there are some suggestions that the amount of tax structuring may be less than commonly thought. Other commonly cited legitimate uses of offshore companies include uses as joint ventures, financing SPVs, stock market listing vehicles, holding companies and asset holding structures, and trading vehicles.\n\nIntermediate uses of offshore companies (i.e. uses which might be considered legitimate or illegitimate depending upon a particular person's view of legitimacy of globalisation and tax planning) include uses as investment funds and private wealth holding vehicles.\n\nThe alternative use of the phrase offshore company, being a business or part of a business which uses offshoring as part of its business process, is less common, and is often used as a lazy shorthand way of saying that the relevant business engages in offshoring.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10275814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10275814", "title": "Paul Manueli", "text": "Paul Manueli\n\nColonel Paul Manueli is a former Commander of the Royal Fiji Military Forces, a former Fiji Cabinet minister, Senator and successful businessman.\n\nManueli is of Rotuman and Samoan descent, he was a soldier in the Royal Fiji Military Forces, and a graduate of the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst in England. He had a distinguished career with the Fijian military, and while still a lieutenant, was appointed to the post of district officer on Rotuma for an interim period in 1960. He went on to become a Colonel and the first indigenous Commander of the Fiji Military Forces, which he led from 22 February 1974 until February 22, 1979.\n\nFollowing his retirement, he has enjoyed considerable success as a business leader and has served on the boards of numerous corporations, including General Manager of BP in the South Pacific. After the 1987 Fijian coups d'état, Manueli has held the portfolios of Minister for Home Affairs, Finance Minister and Minister for Justice in the Fijian Parliamentary Cabinet. Originally a member of the post-coup interim government, Manueli subsequently sought election and won the sole seat for the Rotuman Communal Constituency and was made a Cabinet Minister in Sitiveni Rabuka's governments. His most recent position was as Rotuma's representative on the Great Council of Chiefs, which was abolished in 2012. He also is a member of the executive board of Warwick International Hotels.\n"}
{"id": "9552091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9552091", "title": "Photonics Spectra", "text": "Photonics Spectra\n\nPhotonics Spectra is a monthly business-to-business (B2B) magazine published for the engineers, scientists, and end users who develop, commercialize and buy photonic products. It provides both technical and applications information for all aspects of the global industry, integrating all segments of photonics: optics, lasers, imaging, fiber optics and electro-optics as well as photonic component manufacturing, solar cell improvements, LED lighting for cars and offices, THz, EHz, UV, IR, and visible light imaging and test equipment.\n\nIn addition to news and feature articles, Photonics Spectra contains business reports, technology updates, reader forums, new products and literature, calendars of conferences and courses, and applications reports.\n\nPhotonics Spectra has been published since 1967 by Laurin Publishing Company, Inc. in Pittsfield, MA, United States.\n\nThe first Optical Industry Directory was published in 1954 by Dr. Clifton Tuttle, an eminent retired Eastman Kodak physicist. At its inception the Directory was a small single volume. It succeeded notably, expanding over the years into the present multimedia publication.\n\nTheresa \"Teddi\" C. Laurin (1924 - November 5, 2015) joined the company in 1962 and, as publisher, worked closely with Dr. Tuttle. In 1964 Francis T. Laurin and Teddi C. Laurin purchased and incorporated the company, which later became known as Laurin Publishing Company. In 1967, in response to industry demands, she founded and launched Optical Spectra. In 1982 the magazine's name was changed to Photonics Spectra to reflect the growing influence of these new light-based technologies. Today, the worldwide distribution of Photonics Spectra is over 90,000 copies.\n\nLaurin Publishing currently maintains a staff of over 80 employees at its headquarters in Pittsfield, Mass. and at its editorial and sales branch offices. The company also includes several contributing editors located around the world and an editorial advisory board of over 25 leaders in the photonics industry.\n\nThe Prism Awards for Photonics Innovation is an international competition that honors the best new photonic products on the market. The Prism Awards has received applications from more than 35 countries across the globe. Applications are judged by a panel of leading industry experts, venture capitalists, luminaries and visionaries.\n\nSince 2008 SPIE and Photonics Media have been working together on the award, named the \"Photonics Oscar\" by OptecNet Deutschland, to bring attention and give recognition to companies that are creating products that make a difference.\n\n"}
{"id": "41256010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41256010", "title": "Politics-administration dichotomy", "text": "Politics-administration dichotomy\n\nThe Politics-administration dichotomy is a theory that constructs the boundaries of public administration and asserts the normative relationship between elected officials and administrators in a democratic society. The phrase \"politics-administration dichotomy\" itself does not appear to have a known inventor, even after exhaustive research, the combination of words that make up the phrase was first found in public administration literature from the 1940s with no clear originator.\n\nWoodrow Wilson is credited with the politics-administration dichotomy via his theories on public administration in his 1887 essay, \"The Study of Administration\". Wilson came up with a theory that politics and administration are inherently different and should be approached as such. Wilson wrote in his essay in regards to public administration: “The field of administration is a field of business. It is removed from the hurry and strife of politics... Administration lies outside the proper sphere of politics. Administrative questions are not political questions. Although politics sets the tasks for administration, it should not be suffered to manipulate its offices.” With these words, Wilson started a debate that has been going on for decades and continues to this day. The politics-administration dichotomy is an important concept in the field of public administration and shows no signs of going away because it deals with the policy-makers role as an administrator and the balancing act that is the relationship between politics and administration. This essay is considered to be the first source to be analyzed and studied in the public administration field. Wilson was primarily influenced by Richard Ely and Herbert Adams who taught at Johns Hopkins University.\n\nWoodrow Wilson’s politics-administration dichotomy can potentially be substantial in sustaining a strong productive government. The complexity, difficulty level and ample multiplication of governmental functions can be seen as a main component in the cause to implement the politics-administration dichotomy. Due to Wilson's lack of faith in republican self-government and the overwhelming amount of “selfish, ignorant, timid, stubborn, or foolish” persons whom the “bulk of can vote,” this model provides a solution that would counteract the majority of the incumbent voters. By employing the elite philosophical leaders to improve, shape, condition and sway public opinion, politics-administration dichotomy, if carried out in an unselfish manner leaves little to no room for error. \n\nWoodrow Wilson’s model created one of the first concepts of checks and balances, which is one of the most predominant systems of democratic accountability used to shape the United States government. Nevertheless “separating the will of the people from politics” could be extremely beneficial and institutionally separating administration from politics could prove valuable in sustaining government accountability.\nPolitics-administration dichotomy also leads to political neutrality. The blurring of \"politics\" and \"policy\" has cause to the advocations to dismiss \"partisan politics\" rather than \"policy politics.\"\nThe importance of neutrality in politics and policy are established within the politics-administration dichotomy.\n\nStandard definition is too narrow . If politics includes all of what we know as policy making, then the dichotomy would bar administrators, presumably including city managers, from participation. The dichotomy of policy and administration was a conceptual distinction underlying a theory of democratic accountability. It was not intended to guide behavior, it was intended as a behavioral prescription directed against contemporary practices of machine politics.\nThe strict definition is the model. It is not conceptually possible to have a one way dichotomy that keeps elected official out of administration but allows administrators to be active in policy. The dichotomy model standing alone is an aberration.\n\nWoodrow Wilson\n"}
{"id": "4680426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4680426", "title": "Raúl Diez Canseco", "text": "Raúl Diez Canseco\n\nRaúl Diez Canseco Terry (born 1948) is a Peruvian businessman and politician. He played a role in bringing international companies such as Kentucky Fried Chicken to Peru. He also founded several educational institutions.\n\nHe was the Minister of Trade and Tourism and the First Vice President during the Alejandro Toledo presidency. He resigned in 2003 from the Cabinet, and in 2004 from the Vice Presidency, after an accusation which favored the father of his present wife. He was subjected to investigations and the charges being dismissed by the Congress of the republic and finally absolved of all charges.\n\n"}
{"id": "40719423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40719423", "title": "Sailing ship effect", "text": "Sailing ship effect\n\nThe sailing ship effect is a phenomenon by which the introduction of a new technology to a market accelerates the innovation of an incumbent technology. Despite the fact that the term was coined by W.H. Ward in 1967 the concept was made clear much earlier in a book by S.C. Gilfillan entitled \"Inventing the ship\" published in 1935. The name of the \"effect\" is due to the reference to advances made in sailing ships in the second half of the 1800s in response to the introduction of steamships. According to Ward, in the 50 years after the introduction of the steam ship, sailing ships made more improvements than they had in the previous 300 years. The term \"Sailing Ship Effect\" applies to situations in which an old technology is revitalized, experiencing a \"last gasp\" when faced with the risk of being replaced by a newer technology.\nHere is how Gilfillan put it:\n\"It is paradoxical, but on examination logical, that this noble flowering of the sailing ship, this apotheosis during\nher decline and just before extermination, was partly vouchsafed by her supplanter, the steamer.\" (Gilfillan,\n1935, p. 156).\n\nThis effect is the economic version of a phenomenon in biology called the red queen effect.\n\nThree possible explanations have been suggested as the cause of the Sailing Ship Effect:\n\nIn 2005, the validity of the original example of the sailing ship effect was called into doubt. In a paper entitled \"The Response of Old Technology Incumbents to Technological Competition: Does the Sailing Ship Effect Exist?\" author John Howells contends that sailing ships and steamships serviced different market segments in the 1860s and 1870s and, therefore, were not directly competing technologies. Howells goes on to hypothesize that rapid advancements in sailing technology of that era may have arisen from competition between sailing ship firms. The paper goes on to call into doubt the prevalence of the phenomenon. \nOn the other hand, De Liso and Filatrella, while providing a review of the literature which confirms the existence of the sailing ship effect, provide a mathematical model which can simulate the sailing ship effect. A recent paper by Sandro Mendonca argues that \"The modernisation of the sailing trader occurs before, not after, the steamship had become an effective competitor\", and further cautions \"if history is to be used to give credence to explanations of empirical regularities in a variety of settings the original source of the relevant concepts must be carefully revisited and deeply researched\". \n\n"}
{"id": "27599929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27599929", "title": "Shareholder oppression", "text": "Shareholder oppression\n\nShareholder oppression occurs when the majority shareholders in a corporation take action that unfairly prejudices the minority. It most commonly occurs in close corporations, because the lack of a public market for shares leaves minority shareholders particularly vulnerable, since minority shareholders cannot escape mistreatment by selling their stock and exiting the corporation. The majority shareholders may harm the economic interests of the minority by refusing to declare dividends or attempting a squeezeout. The majority may physically lock the minority out of the corporate premises and even deny the minority the right to inspect corporate records and books, making it necessary for the minority to sue every time it wants to look at them. An important concept in law pertaining to shareholder oppression is the \"reasonable expectations\" of the minority shareholder. The \"fair dealing\" standard is also sometimes used by courts.\n\nThe potential for shareholder oppression arguably increased when corporate law was changed to eliminate the common law right of minority shareholders to veto fundamental corporate changes such as mergers. It has been said that the business judgment rule and notions of majority rule have allowed shareholder majorities to use the minority's investment without paying for it. It has also been said, however, that it is difficult to determine how to deal with the rights of the minority shareholder without destroying the corporation, while still respecting the rights of the majority shareholder.\n\nThe courts sometimes make oppression remedies available. An oppressed minority shareholder can ask the court to dissolve the corporation or to hold the corporation's leaders accountable for their fiduciary responsibilities. Another remedy sometimes used is court-ordered purchase of shares. As of 1997, the European Union still had not harmonized laws for dealing with shareholder oppression. In the United Kingdom, the Companies Act 2006 governs remedies for minority shareholder oppression. Contractual protections, such as buyout provisions in a shareholder agreement, have been cited as a potential alternative to statutory protections of minority shareholders.\n"}
{"id": "46242271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46242271", "title": "Startup studio", "text": "Startup studio\n\nStartup studio, also known as a startup factory, or a startup foundry, or a venture builder, is a studio-like company that aims at building several companies in succession. This style of business building is referred to as \"parallel entrepreneurship\".\n\nIdealab, founded by Bill Gross in 1996, was one of the first to introduce the 'incubator industry', and has started over 75 companies. Idealab was founded to test many ideas at once and turn the best of them into companies while also attracting the human and financial capital necessary to bring them to the market.\n\nThe startup studio trend had really begun to gain momentum around 2008. Today, there are over 65 startup studios across the world, of which 17 have been built since 2013.\n\nThere are several types of startup studio models.\n\nA builder startup studio focuses on creating and developing a company, mostly from internal ideas.\n\nExamples of this model are Rocket Internet, eFounders, Next Big Thing, 0smosis, The Combine, MAKE IT, TechnoFounders, Ant Farm in Mumbai and Makeshift in Europe, Interplay Ventures，Atomic, and Giant Pixel in the US, Stanley Park Ventures in Canada, 25Fifteen in Australia, JCS Venture Lab in Singapore, RE.A.PRA in Southeast Asia, and Far Ventures in South Africa. This is the true startup studio model, offering balance between investing funds and resources to turn ideas into companies.\n\nUnlike business incubators and accelerators, venture builders generally don't accept applications concerning their portfolio of companies, and the companies instead \"pull business ideas from within their own network of resources and assign internal teams to develop them.\"\n\nAccording to VentureBeat, Nova Spivack was \"part of the early technologists who pioneered the venture production studio model. He wrote about the model in 2011 at a time when most of its production elements were still in gestation. Nova actually invented the Venture Production Studio term, calling it a 'new approach to building startups.'\"\n\nInvestor startup studios bring in early-stage external startups and help them grow by providing them both funds and expertise. US-based studios Expa, Betaworks and Science, Inc. and Singapore-Stockholm-based Antler, fall in this category.\n\nAt the very end of the spectrum, some VC firms are growing closer to the startup studio model by intervening very operationally in the startup they invest; for instance Andreessen Horowitz and Google Ventures. However, this participation is usually limited to some areas, such as recruitment, fund raising, or PR relations.\n\nIncubator startup studios are accelerators that get equity in exchange of providing funds and expertise, but also get involved in building the startup.\n\nStartup studios are often mistaken with startup incubators and startup accelerator, or operational Venture Capital firms.\n\nThe startup studio model is defined by three important criteria:\n\nUnlike startup incubators or VCs, the main goal of a startup studio is to build a startup from the ground up. This implies an important involvement of time, dedication and resources to working operationally on the project for a period of time.\n\nOne focus of a startup studio is the rapid development and prototyping of new products. They work on multiple startups and projects simultaneously instead of building one project at a time.\n\nStartup studios own an infrastructure made of pooled resources: technical tools, management processes, and a multi-disciplinary team. By building several projects a year with the same team, startups studios can re-use this infrastructure, software and best practices across products.\n\nStartup studios occupy a specific place in the entrepreneurship environment, based on the amount of human and financial support they provide to the startups:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3343144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3343144", "title": "Task management", "text": "Task management\n\nTask management is the process of managing a task through its life cycle. It involves planning, testing, tracking, and reporting. Task management can help either individual achieve goals, or groups of individuals collaborate and share knowledge for the accomplishment of collective goals. Tasks are also differentiated by complexity, from low to high.\n\nEffective task management requires managing all aspects of a task, including its status, priority, time, human and financial resources assignments, recurrence, dependency, notifications and so on. These can be lumped together broadly into the basic activities of task management.\n\nManaging multiple individuals or team tasks may be assisted by specialized software, for example workflow or project management software. In fact, many people believe that task management should serve as a foundation for project management activities.\n\nTask management may form part of project management and process management and can serve as the foundation for efficient workflow in an organization. Project managers adhering to task-oriented management have a detailed and up-to-date project schedule, and are usually good at directing team members and moving the project forward.\n\nThe status of tasks can be described by the following states:\n\nThe following state machine diagram describes different states of a task over its life cycle. This diagram is referenced from IBM. A more up to date task's state machine diagram applicable to the new continuous delivery method could be found here.\n\nAs a discipline, task management embraces several key activities. Various conceptual breakdowns exist, and these, at a high-level, always include creative, functional, project, performance and service activities.\n\nTask management software tools abound in the marketplace. Some are free; others intended for enterprise-wide deployment purposes. Some are simple to-do lists, while others boast enterprise-wide task creation, visualization, and notification capabilities - among others. Task management is used by small to Fortune 100 size companies. It does support simple individual projects to corporate task management activities.\n\nProject management software, calendaring software and workflow software also often provide task management software with advanced support for task management activities and corresponding software environment dimensions, reciprocating the myriad project and performance activities built into most good enterprise-level task management software products.\n\nSoftware dimensions crisscrossing nearly all lines of task management products include task creation, task visualization, notifications, assign resources, compatibility, configurability, scalability, and reporting\n\n"}
{"id": "7065888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7065888", "title": "The Association for Work Process Improvement", "text": "The Association for Work Process Improvement\n\nTAWPI was a membership association that focused on the improvement of work processes in data capture, document and remittance processing. It was originally the OCR Users Association (OCRUA) founded in 1970, which was renamed the Recognition Technology Users Association (RTUA) in 1981. In 1993, RTUA merged with DEMA (Association for Input Technology and Management) and various OCR/Scanner/Fax associations and changed its name to TAWPI. \n\nTAWPI facilitated the peer-to-peer exchange of actionable information, ideas and best practices on the converging technologies and processes that enable payments automation and document management. The TAWPI annual forum and expo was a highly interactive, multi-dimensional event featuring ideas, information and advice on payments automation, distributed capture, and document & forms automation. TAWPI also hosted an annual Capture Conference and an annual Healthcare Payments Automation Summit.\n\nIn 2010, TAWPI merged with the International Accounts Payable Professionals (IAPP), International Accounts Receivable Professionals (IARP), the National Association of Purchasing and Payables (NAPP) to form the Institute of Financial Operations (IFO). Based in Orlando, Fla., with affiliates in the U.S., Canada, and the UK, \n\nThe members and leaders of TAWPI, especially Herb Schantz of HLS Associates, were responsible for much of the development and application of optical scanning.\n\n"}
{"id": "37978698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37978698", "title": "The Giving of Orders", "text": "The Giving of Orders\n\n\"The Giving of Orders\" is a 1926 essay by Mary Parker Follett. In it, she addresses issues of authority in business management, specifically how managers can gain influence over informal groups that naturally form in the workplace. She found that people respond better to situations than to top-down orders and managers should give people the means and willingness to respond to given situations instead of merely giving orders: \"My solution is to depersonalize the giving of orders, to unite all concerned in a study of the situation, to discover the law of the situation, and obey that.\"\n\nAs a young girl, Mary Follett faced many struggles. Her sister died while she was young and her father was in and out of her life. She was always involved in government and recent issues going on throughout her community. Although, she had limited access to research funds and other resources, she was able to write two influential books;\" The New State\" and \"Creative Experience\" which were insights gained by twenty years of civic and professional work in Boston's immigrant neighborhoods. By commuting everyday from her home in Boston to Roxbury, she recognized the difference between both cities and decided to make changes in Ward 17. With so much involvement throughout her lifetime, she started a revolution.\n\nBy addressing the way managers gain influence over informal groups, Follett explains that training the employee can not only help them better understand their job description, but also helps the employer to be better understood. She argues that \"orders should be the composite conclusion of those who give and those who receive them; more than this, that they should be the integration of the people concerned and the situation; more even than this, that they should be the integrations involved in the evolving situation.\". Follett found that workmen respond better to \"the order integral to a particular situation\", which is arrived at by \"joint study of the problem\". She argued that when \"orders are simply part of the situation, the question of someone giving and someone receiving does not come up. Both accept the orders given by the situation.\" In all, Follett cautions managers to avoid giving orders but rather to look with others to the situation at hand to determine an appropriate response. Follett felt that depersonalizing orders would foster collaborative decision making, in which managers and employees would \"discover\" the most appropriate decision. Follett developed the circular theory of power, distinguishing between \"power-over\" and \"power-with\" (coercive vs. co-active power), while also advocating for power sharing and employee participation.\n\nWhile Follett's writings were popular during her time period, they were nearly forgotten within ten years of her death. Scholars speculate that this could be due to gender discrimination and the fact that her ideas were too ahead of her time. Even though her perspective on voice is much more extreme than contemporary researchers, there has been renewed interest in her writings in the last couple of decades. Follett's work came during the height of Frederick Taylor's Scientific Management movement, which advocated the \"one right way\" for tasks to be performed, and Max Weber's view that direct hierarchy was the best form of leadership for larger organizations. The Giving of Orders challenged both of these paradigms and presented an alternative to purely top-down hierarchy in management. Many consider Follett “the Prophet of Management” because her ideas have affected the field of management for the past six decades.\n"}
{"id": "13249958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13249958", "title": "The Modern Corporation and Private Property", "text": "The Modern Corporation and Private Property\n\nThe Modern Corporation and Private Property is a book written by Adolf Berle and Gardiner Means published in 1932 regarding the foundations of United States corporate law. It explores the evolution of big business through a legal and economic lens, and argues that in the modern world those who legally have ownership over companies have been separated from their control. The second, revised edition was released in 1967. It serves as a foundational text in corporate governance, corporate law (company law), and institutional economics.\n\nBerle and Means argued that the structure of corporate law in the United States in the 1930s enforced the separation of ownership and control because the corporate person formally owns a corporate entity even while shareholders own shares in the corporate entity and elect corporate directors who control the company's activities. Compared to the notion of personal private property, say as one's laptop or bicycle, the functioning of modern company law “has destroyed the unity that we commonly call property”. This occurred for a number of reasons, foremost being the dispersal of shareholding ownership in big corporations: the typical shareholder is uninterested in the day-to-day affairs of the company, yet thousands of people like him or her make up the majority of owners throughout the economy. The result is that those who are directly interested in day-to-day affairs, the management and the directors, have the ability to manage the resources of companies to their own advantage without effective shareholder scrutiny.\n\n“The property owner who invests in a modern corporation so far surrenders his wealth to those in control of the corporation that he has exchanged the position of independent owner for one in which he may become merely recipient of the wages of capital... [Such owners] have surrendered the right that the corporation should be operated in their sole interest...” \n\nBerle and Means researched the consequences of ownership and control being separate. As businesses grow and shareholders increase in number, any shareholdings that directors have will be a proportionally smaller capital stake. Directors' income will derive mostly from return on their labor as directors, not from their capital investment. If their motivation is purely pecuniary\n\n“the owners most emphatically will not be served by a profit seeking controlling group”.\n\nThe implications of their work were clear. Berle and Means advocated embedded voting rights for all shareholders, greater transparency, and accountability. However, with the release of the revised edition, Berle and Means also pointed to the disparity that existed between those who did have shareholdings and those who did not.\n\nMurray Weidenbaum and Mark Jensen have added their introduction to more recent editions of the text. It casts a thoroughly skeptical perspective on the book, since the two came from very different academic perspectives, generally more orthodox and conservative in their outlook politically.\n\nFor the 1967 Revised Edition, Berle added a new Preface, updating the picture and bringing in new arguments and observations. He summed up the whole point of the book at the same time, making it a valuable adjunct to the text. \"Why have stockholders?\" he asked.\n\"What contribution do they make, entitling them to heirship of half the profits of the industrial system, receivable partly in the form of dividends, and partly in the form of increased market values resulting from undistributed corporate gains? Stockholders toil not, neither do they spin, to earn that reward. They are beneficiaries by position only. Justification for their inheritance must be sought outside classic economic reasoning.”\nThe position of stockholders' profit, said Berle,\n“can be founded only upon social grounds. There is... a value attached to individual life, individual development, individual solution of personal problems, individual choice of consumption and activity. Wealth unquestionably does add to an individual’s capacity and range in pursuit of happiness and self-development. There is certainly advantage to the community when men take care of themselves. But that justification turns on the distribution as well as the existence of wealth. Its force exists only in direct ratio to the number of individuals who hold such wealth. Justification for the stockholder’s existence thus depends on increasing distribution within the American population. Ideally the stockholder’s position will be impregnable only when every American family has its fragment of that position and of the wealth by which the opportunity to develop individuality becomes fully actualized.”\n\n\n\nBook I is entitled, \"Property in Flux: Separation of the attributes of ownership under the corporate system\" and provides a general picture of the shifting economic power structure that Berle and Means observed.\n\nThis first chapter explores the basic thesis of Berle and Means, that with the emergence of the corporation, the very institution of private property has been fundamentally altered.\n“In its new aspect the corporation is a means whereby the wealth of innumerable individuals has been concentrated into huge aggregates and whereby control over this wealth has been surrendered to a unified direction. The power attendant upon such concentration has brought forth princes of industry, whose position in the community is yet to be defined. The surrender of control over their wealth by investors has effectively broken the old property relationships and has raised the problem of defining these relationship anew. The direction of industry by persons other than those who have ventured their wealth has raised the question of the motive force back of such direction and the effective distribution of the returns from business enterprise.”\n\n“Such an organization of economic activity rests upon two developments, each of which has made possible an extension of the area under unified control. The factory system, the basis of the industrial revolution, brought an increasingly large number of workers directly under a single management. Then, the modern corporation, equally revolutionary in its effect, placed the wealth of innumerable individuals under the same central control. By each of these changes the power of those in control was immensely enlarged and the status of those involved, worker or property owner, was radically changed. The independent worker who entered the factory became a wage laborer surrendering the direction of his labor to his industrial master. The property owner who invests in a modern corporation so far surrenders his wealth to those in control of the corporation that he has exchanged the position of independent owner for one in which he may become merely recipient of the wages of capital.”\nBerle and Means continue by emphasizing how increasing dispersion of stock ownership under a shareholder public is necessary for those in control to enforce their position. Even if they have minority shareholding, the public so widespread is not in a position to be organized to hold those who handle their investments to account. The divergence of interest between owners and controllers,\n“has destroyed the unity that we commonly call property - has divided ownership into nominal ownership and the power formerly joined to it. Thereby the corporation has changed the nature of profit-seeking enterprise.”\n\n“Private enterprise, on the other hand, has assumed an owner of the instruments of production with complete property rights over those instruments... Whereas the organization of feudal economic life rested upon an elaborate system of binding customs, the organization under the system of private enterprise has rested upon the self-interest of the property owner - a self-interest held in check only by competition and the conditions of supply and demand... Such self-interest has long been regarded as the best guarantee of economic efficiency. It has been assumed that, if the individual is protected in the right both to use his own property as he sees fit and to receive the full fruits of its use, his desire for personal gain, for profits, can be relied upon as an effective incentive to his efficient use of any industrial property he may possess.”\nShareholders, it is stated\n“cannot be motivated by those profits to a more efficient use of the property, since they have surrendered all disposition of it to those in control of the enterprise.”\nThe second chapter puts forward the view that corporations have entered, grown and become dominant first in the fields of public utilities, common carriers, banks and insurance companies and last in the areas of personal service and agriculture.\n\nIt also goes on to emphasize the fact that the date of its appearance and degree of its dominance have in general varied with two factors\n\nThis part proceeds to emphasize the ubiquity of corporations in production in the modern economy.\n“These great companies form the very framework of American industry. The individual must come in contact with them almost constantly. He may own an interest in one or more of them, he may be employed by one of them, but above all he is continually accepting their service.”\n\n“In conclusion, then, the huge corporation, the corporation with $90m of assets or more, has come to dominate most major industries if not all industry in the United States.”\nA number of consequences result, the fifth being that,\n“The economic power in the hands of the few persons who control a giant corporation is a tremendous force which can harm or benefit a multitude of individuals, affect whole districts, shift the currents of trade, bring ruin to one community and prosperity to another. The organizations which they control have passed far beyond the realm of private enterprise - they have become more nearly social institutions.”\nIn this Chapter, Berle and Means present considerable statistical evidence of the growing dispersion of stock ownership around the economy. They draw a distinction between \"passive\" property, or that which merely sits idle or is consumed, and \"productive\" property, which is actually employed to create more wealth. They say,\n“over the enterprise and over the physical property - the instruments of production - in which he has an interest, the owner has little control. At the same time he bears no responsibility with respect to the enterprise or its physical property. It has often been said that the owner of a horse is responsible. If the horse lives he must feed it. If the horse dies he must bury it. No such responsibility attaches to a share of stock. The owner is practically powerless through his own efforts to affect the underlying property... Physical property capable of being shaped by its owner could bring to him direct satisfaction apart from the income it yielded in more concrete form. It represented an extension of his own personality. With the corporate revolution, this quality has been lost to the property owner much as it has been lost to the worker through the industrial revolution.”\nWhile land could be enjoyed whatever its market value, Berle and Means point out that shares cannot. The fact that so much wealth is in shares means we are tied to the market in a way we never have been before.\n\nThis chapter traces the power that shareholders have to control managers. The most important instrument is the vote, and they note,\n\n“In contrast to non-voting preferred, the use of non-voting common stock has met with considerable disfavor. Both the New York Stock Exchange and the New York Curb have refused to list new issues of non-voting common stock; for practical purposes, this would seem to have eliminated the use of this device on any large scale in the immediate future.”\n\nBerle and Means note the development of Voting trusts, which initially met bitter opposition, being declared illegal by courts. This was the practice whereby voting powers were transferred from the stockholder to a trustee for a fixed period. State legislatures were needed to authorize their use, after Delaware allowed them but other courts struck them down.\n\nBerle and Means also deployed, uniquely, the concept of a shareholder's \"rational apathy\".\n\n\"the normal apathy of the small stockholder is such that he will either fail to return his proxy vote, or will sign on the dotted line, returning his proxy to the [management] of the corporation.\"\n\nOn the divergence of interest, Berle and Means' central question is,\n“have we any justification for assumption that those in control of a modern corporation will also choose to operate it in the interests of the owners? The answer to this question will depend on the degree to which the self-interest of those in control may run parallel to the interests of ownership and, insofar as they differ, on the checks on the use of power which may be established by political, economic, or social conditions... If we are to assume that the desire for personal profit is the prime force motivating control, we must conclude that the interests of control are different from and often radically opposed to those of ownership; that the owners most emphatically will not be served by a profit-seeking controlling group.”\nBook II's full title is, \"Regrouping of Rights: Relative legal position of ownership and \"control“\". Its subject is to explore the change in the balance of power between shareholders and the board of directors.\n\nBerle and Means begin by setting the context of the company's formation. Originally the company was granted privileges to be a separate legal person and carry on business, to sue and be sued and these rights usually went with the grant of a monopoly. The monopolies were no longer used now. But then came the easy registration of companies and limited liability for stockholders.\n“From all this necessarily flowed a limited liability of the associates. Since only the entity was liable for debts, which did not attach to the various individuals, it followed that a stockholder was not normally liable for any of the debts of the enterprise; and he could thus embark a particular amount of capital in the corporate affairs without becoming responsible beyond this amount, for the corporate debts.”\nIn the United States, particularly at the time Berle and Means were writing they noted two things which particularly compromised shareholder's power: vote by proxy and restrictions on removing directors. So far as for what objectives the company pursues they say,\n“The present corporation’s objects and the nature of the business in which (so far as the charter goes) it can engage are commonly limited only by the imagination of its organizing attorneys and their ability to embrace the world within the limits of the English language.”\n\"The conclusion that can be drawn (from this chapter) is that the share of stock, while it represents a participation in corporate assets, does so subject to so many qualifications that the distinctness of the property right has been blurred to the point of invisibility. For protection the stockholder has only a set of expectations that the men who compose the management and control will deal fairly with his interest. He must rely for the most part not on legal rights but on economic significances – on an accumulation of conditions which will make it desirable or advantageous for the purposes of the administration of the corporation to recognize a participation more or less meeting his expectation.\"\n\nBerle and Means contrast the position of the owner of shares (passive property) and the owner of a horse (an example of active property). The one with the horse is ‘married’ to his physical property and must take responsibility for it. The stockholder's position is different.\n“The liquidity of property thus turns upon the determination of a market price and the mechanism for such price-determining is the open market. Curious as it may seem, the fact appears to be that liquid property, at least under the corporate system, obtains a set of values in exchange, represented by market prices, which are not immediately dependent upon, or at least only obliquely connected with, the underlying values of the properties themselves.”\nBook III's full title is \"Property in the Stock Markets: Security exchanges as appraisers and liquidators\".\n\nBook IV, entitled \"Reorientation of Enterprise: Effects of the corporate system on fundamental economic concepts\" is the shortest and aims to reassess some basic concepts in economic theory in light of the emergence of the corporation.\n\nThe traditional logic of property is that one will get all the gains and bear the losses associated with ownership. But now, since ownership has been separated from control, this no longer holds true.\n\nThe traditional logic of profits, say Berle and Means, is that one will be motivated by the prospect of profiting from one's property. But again, with the separation of ownership from control, it is possible for managers to profit without working in shareholders' interests.\n“Where such a separation is complete one group of individuals, the security holders and in particular the stockholders, performs the function of risk-takers and suppliers of capital, while a separate group exercises control and ultimate management. In such a case, if profits are to be received only by the security holders, as the traditional logic of property would require, how can they perform both of their traditional economic roles? Are no profits to go to those who exercise control and in whose hands the efficient operation of enterprise ultimately rests? ...Furthermore, if all profits are earmarked for the security holder, where is the inducement for those in control to manage the enterprise efficiently? When none of the profits are to be received by them, why should they exert themselves beyond the amount necessary to maintain a reasonably satisfied group of stockholders.”\nBerle and Means go right back here to Adam Smith's oft cited disdain for joint stock companies, the idea that \"negligence and profusion\" would always prevail. They again emphasise the distinction between active and passive property.\n\nThis concluding part brings together the general thesis of the book. They finish by saying,\n\"The rise of the modern corporation has brought a concentration of economic power which can compete on equal terms with the modern state - economic power versus political power, each strong in its own field. The state seeks in some aspects to regulate the corporation, while the corporation, steadily becoming more powerful, makes every effort to avoid such regulation... The future may see the economic organism, now typified by the corporation, not only on an equal plane with the state, but possibly even superseding it as the dominant form of social organization. The law of corporations, accordingly, might well be considered as a potential constitutional law for the new economic state, while business practice is increasingly assuming the aspect of economic statesmanship.”\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18004739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18004739", "title": "The New Age of Innovation", "text": "The New Age of Innovation\n\nThe New Age of Innovation: Driving Cocreated Value Through Global Networks () is a book by University of Michigan Ross School of Business Professors C. K. Prahalad and M. S. Krishnan published in April 2008. The book outlines a new strategic path for companies in the 21st century.\n\nIn the first chapter, Prahalad and Krishnan outline their central thesis; that there are new managerial demands in business, requiring new sources of value creation. They argue that these demands have created an N=1 and R=G environment, where companies need to customize their product for each customer by gaining access to a new array of suppliers.\n\nThe book argues that the old sources of competitive advantage -technology, labor, and capital – are fading and that new sources are emerging. Prahalad and Krishnan suggest an internal capacity to reconfigure resources in real time by focusing on clearly documented, transparent, and resilient business processes (the link between strategy, business models and operations) has become a strong differentiator. They also argue that a focus on co-creation, by developing an R=G supply network and emphasizing analytics which identify trends and unique opportunities can create a strong competitive advantage. The technical architecture required to develop these flexible and resilient business processes and strong analytics capabilities is outlined in the book. \n\nThe last four chapters describe how to implement these new strategies. Recognizing that many companies have fragmented and archaic systems, the book describes typical problems that occur when migrating to an N=1 and R=G friendly system. Prahalad and Krishnan emphasize the importance of a social architecture with strong linkages between managers and the technical architecture. They also outline the necessity for companies to recruit new skills from around the world and use globalization to its advantage.\n\nThe book argues that \"the industrial system as we know it has been morphing for some time. Now it may have reached an inflection point.” Prahalad and Krishnan outline the approach that firms in the new economy must take to survive and become successful. The previous choice between low cost and differentiation is rarely the chief strategic choice anymore, firms must achieve what Prahalad and Krishnan call N=1 and R=G.\n\nN=1 requires companies to focus on the importance of individual customer experiences and tailor their product accordingly. It requires that companies have resilient, dynamic and flexible business processes. They also emphasize the importance of strong analytics which allow management to discover trends and unique opportunities and enable the company to engage in product co-creation with their consumer base.\n\nR=G advises firms take a horizontal approach to supply rather than vertical integration. The focus is on obtaining access, rather than ownership, to resources from an array of suppliers both inside and outside the firm. R=G provides the best opportunity for firms to leverage the necessary resources to co-create a personalized experience for each customer. R=G is often mistaken as a suggestion to outsource, however this is often not the case, as there are many notable instances where it makes sense for companies to leverage local resources to fulfill a personalized demand model.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54429430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54429430", "title": "The Swedish Chamber of Commerce for the United Kingdom", "text": "The Swedish Chamber of Commerce for the United Kingdom\n\nThe Swedish Chamber of Commerce (SCC), founded in 1906, is an independent, nonprofit networking organisation with around 70 events per year. The Chamber has around 400 Member companies, representing not only Swedish companies but also British and European companies interested in strengthening their existing ties with Sweden and the UK or expanding to new markets. \nIn addition, a sub-organisation, the Young Professionals (YP), has approximately 300 individual Members, aged 25–35 with an interest in the Anglo-Swedish business community. As a social networking organisation, the YP organises a wide range of both business-related and social activities.\n\nThe subject of a London Chamber was first discussed in early 1906, when a number of meetings regarding the arrangement of a Swedish exhibition, led to the establishment of the Swedish Chamber of Commerce in London. The Certificate of Incorporation was granted by the Board of Trade and offices were hired at 136, Fenchurch Street. At the end of 1907 no less than 189 members had been elected.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24639868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24639868", "title": "Tony Chua", "text": "Tony Chua\n\nAntonio \"Tony\" Chua (1965-September 26, 2009) was a Filipino Chinese businessman. His family owns Photokina Marketing Corporation, which distributed Red Bull in the Philippines; he managed and was the governor of the Barako Bull Energy Boosters, the company's team in the Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) in which he previously served as chairman. Chua also served as vice president of Philippine Football Federation (PFF); he previously played high school varsity football for Colegio de San Juan de Letran.\n\nChua died at the height of Tropical Storm Ketsana (local name: Ondoy).\n\nChua studied in Colegio de San Juan de Letran up to college, graduating in 1975. He played for the Letran Squires football team and was known as \"Mr. Football.\" Chua coached the Philippine women's national football team, and later served as vice president of the PFF.\n\nChua's company Photokina Marketing Corporation fielded the Red Bull to the semiprofessional Philippine Basketball League (PBL), and he was tasked to manage the team. Then PBL commissioner Yeng Guiao allowed the team to compete, and the team won several championships.\n\nWhen the Photokina franchise entered the professional Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) as Batang Red Bull, Chua appointed Guiao as the coach of the team. Guiao led the Red Bull team to three championships: the 2001 and 2002 Commissioner's Cups, and the 2006 Fiesta Conference.\n\nAfter Noli Eala resigned as PBA commissioner, Chua as chairman of the board of governors ran the daily affairs of the league while a replacement was being found. When Sonny Barrios was appointed as interim commissioner, Chua personally welcomed Barrios on his first day on the job.\n\nAfter the 2008–09 Philippine Cup, Guiao resigned and the team was renamed as the Barako Bull Energy Boosters. Guiao was later signed as head coach of the Burger King Whoppers but the two remained close.\n\nAmong his projects in the PBA is the PBA Hall of Fame; he was one of the selectors for the third batch which were announced in 2009.\n\nAt the height of Tropical Storm Ketsana (Ondoy), traffic was not moving and he and his driver and Barako Bull liaison officer aides alighted their car. The three trekked the flooded road when a strong current engulfed them, sucking away the driver; Chua can only look at his aide as his body faded out of sight. The two decided to stop and hold on to a tree when a truck carrying lumber passed by, the lumber that jutted out of the truck hit Chua in the face. The details right after he was hit by the lumber weren't clear; he could have died because of hypothermia or from internal hemorrhage, for he was bleeding from the ears. His liaison officer caught up with him and tried to revive him, but he died on the way. The driver's body was fished out of the waters two days after the storm.\n\nSports officials were saddened by Chua's demise. Guiao was \"deeply shocked\" and remarked that Chua was \"well liked by everyone in the basketball community\". Guiao's successor as commissioner in the PBL Chino Trinidad said described Chua as \"a funny guy\" but \"passionate in the game\". PBA commissioner Barrios, who announced Chua's death to the press, was personally affected by Chua's death, saying that we always \"worked well\" with him.\n"}
{"id": "60868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60868", "title": "Transamerica Pyramid", "text": "Transamerica Pyramid\n\nThe Transamerica Pyramid at 600 Montgomery Street between Clay and Washington Streets in the Financial District of San Francisco, California, United States, is a 48-story futurist building and the second-tallest skyscraper in the San Francisco skyline. Its height is surpassed by Salesforce Tower. The building no longer houses the headquarters of the Transamerica Corporation, which moved its U.S. headquarters to Baltimore, Maryland, but it is still associated with the company and is depicted in the company's logo. Designed by architect William Pereira and built by Hathaway Dinwiddie Construction Company, at , on completion in 1972 it was the eighth-tallest building in the world.\n\nThe Transamerica building was commissioned by Transamerica CEO John (Jack) R. Beckett, with the claim that he wished to allow light in the street below. Built on the site of the historic Montgomery Block, it has a structural height of and has 48 floors of retail and office space.\n\nConstruction began in 1969 and finished in 1972, and was overseen by San Francisco-based contractor Dinwiddie Construction, now Hathaway Dinwiddie Construction Company. Transamerica moved its headquarters to the new building from across the street, where it had been based in a flatiron-shaped building now occupied by the Church of Scientology of San Francisco.\n\nAlthough the tower is no longer Transamerica Corporation headquarters, it is still associated with the company and is depicted in the company's logo. The building is evocative of San Francisco and has become one of the many symbols of the city. Designed by architect William Pereira, it faced opposition during planning and construction and was sometimes referred to by detractors as \"Pereira's Prick\". John King of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" summed up the improved opinion of the building in 2009 as \"an architectural icon of the best sort – one that fits its location and gets better with age.\" King also wrote in 2011 that it is \"a uniquely memorable building, a triumph of the unexpected, unreal and engaging all at once. ... It is a presence and a persona, snapping into different focus with every fresh angle, every shift in light.\"\n\nThe Transamerica Pyramid was the tallest skyscraper west of Chicago when constructed, surpassing the then Bank of America Center, also in San Francisco. It was surpassed by the Aon Center, Los Angeles, in 1974.\n\nThe building is thought to have been the intended target of a terrorist attack, involving the hijacking of airplanes as part of the Bojinka plot, which was foiled in 1995.\n\nIn 1999, Transamerica was acquired by Dutch insurance company Aegon. When the non-insurance operations of Transamerica were later sold to GE Capital, Aegon retained ownership of the building as an investment.\n\nThe Transamerica Pyramid was the tallest skyscraper in San Francisco from 1972 to 2017, when it was surpassed by the under-construction Salesforce Tower.\n\nThe land use and zoning restrictions for the parcel limited the number of square feet of office that could be built upon the lot, which sits at the north boundary of the financial district.\n\nThe building is a tall, four-sided pyramid with two \"wings\" to accommodate an elevator shaft on the east and a stairwell and a smoke tower on the west. The top of the building is the spire. There are four cameras pointed in the four cardinal directions at the top of this spire forming the \"Transamerica Virtual Observation Deck.\" Four monitors in the lobby, whose direction and zoom can be controlled by visitors, display the cameras' views 24 hours a day. An observation deck on the 27th floor was closed: the Pyramid's official website says that it was closed to the public in 2001, while the New York Times reported that it has been closed \"[s]ince the late 1990s\". It was replaced by the virtual observation deck a few years later. The video signal from the \"Transamericam\" was used for years by a local TV news station for live views of traffic and weather in downtown San Francisco.\n\nThe top of the Transamerica Pyramid is covered with aluminum panels. During the Christmas holiday season, on Independence Day, and during the anniversary of 9/11, a brightly twinkling beacon called the \"Crown Jewel\" is lit at the top of the pyramid.\n\nAt the base of the building is a small private park called Transamerica Redwood Park. It is generally open to the public during the daytime. A number of redwood trees were transplanted from the local area to this park when the tower was built.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26497138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26497138", "title": "Won-G", "text": "Won-G\n\nWondge \"Won-G\" Bruny (born August 29, 1980) is a Haitian rapper.\n\nWon-G has released several records, including: Shadow of the Rains (1994), Do It, Do It (1995), Royal Impression (2000), No Better Than This (2001), Explosion (2002), Rage of the Age (2004), and Haiti Prince (2008). Won-G has released singles “Rich Together feat Rick Ross” (2015), “Racks” (2015), and “I Can’t Sleep at Night” (2014).\n\nHe was the first independent artist sold in Virgin Megastores, Sam Goody, and Warehouse Music. Won-G has had several songs and albums on the Billboard charts without the support of major record labels. His song “Nothing Wrong” reached No. 26 on the Billboard Hot 100. “Put It Inside” featuring Da Brat reached No. 15 and stayed for 16 weeks.\n"}
{"id": "13565268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13565268", "title": "Zeppelin University", "text": "Zeppelin University\n\nZeppelin University (German: \"Zeppelin Universität\", ZU) is a small and highly selective private research university located at Lake Constance in Friedrichshafen, Germany. It is named after the German general and airship constructor Ferdinand Graf von Zeppelin, whose foundation is the main financier of Zeppelin University. The university was established in 2003 and is known for its avant-garde character as well as for a sophisticated selection. On 10. September 2011, ZU was being bestowed the right to award doctorate and habilitation. This comes along with the right to use the title \"university\" (German: \"Universität\").\n\nZeppelin University has the legal form of a non-profit, limited liability organization and calls itself \"university bridging business, culture and politics\". Thus it stresses the multi-disciplinary character of research and teaching that is an integral part of its self-image. The university is accredited nationally by the Academic Council of the Federal Republic of Germany (Wissenschaftsrat). The undergraduate major courses are accredited by ACQUIN, a German higher education accreditation agency.\n\nZeppelin University has two main campuses in Friedrichshafen: One right on the banks of Lake Constance (the \"LakeCampus\" or \"SMH\") and the nearby \"ZFCampus\" (or \"FAB3\"), which was built from 2013 to 2015 to create more space for the quickly growing university. Both campuses are modern, designed by well-known architects, and contain classrooms, lecture halls, offices, cafeterias, a library and a wing free to use solely by students. From 2007 to 2008 (until the closure of the airport), Zeppelin University had an additional location in the foyer of Tempelhof International Airport in Berlin, the so-called “Institute for the Art of Swimming on Air”. Since 2011, there is a campus in Berlin again (\"CapitalCampus\").\n\nThere are several student groups and projects, such as groups affiliated with political parties (\"LHG, Jusos, RCDS\"), a debating club (\"Soapbox\"), the Club of International Politics (\"CIP\"), a Model United Nations group (MUN), which also organizes \"LakeMun\", entrepreneurial groups, a cultural club which also organizes a music festival at the university (\"SeeKult\"), a student medical service, a filming group, several bands and many more - some of them are even known nationwide (e.g. \"RockYourLife\"). In 2008, the student radio station \"Welle20\" went on air.\n\nApplicants are selected by the university in an arduous two-step selection process: after a detailed written application, in which the first selection is made, the most auspicious candidates will be invited to an assessment day (\"Pioneers Wanted\"). Thereby, the candidates undergo a program consisting of several interviews with professors, students, alumni, and external reviewers, as well as written tests. Furthermore, they have to accomplish a realistic project which is introduced by an associated organisation, whereby a problem has to be solved as a group and must be presented afterwards in front of the assessment committee.\n\nThe selection procedure of ZU is being considered as outstandingly sophisticated, also because of its deviating modalities compared to other universities: ZU deliberately refrain from the solely use of a numerus clausus (which is widely prevalent in German educational landscape), but instead tries to find personalities which - besides accomplishing the required performance - also fit to the university's character. Therefore, the university currently has an undergraduate acceptance rate, which is lower than 10% and a graduate acceptance rate of about 16%.\n\nStudents can graduate with the academic degree of a Bachelor of Arts (B.A. with 240 ECTS) and a consecutive, as well as a non-consecutive, Master of Arts or Master of Science (M.A. / M.Sc. with 120 ECTS).\n\nThe university offers Bachelor courses in the field of Liberal arts education. Programs of Study are offered in:\n\nThere are Master programs in:\n\nFurthermore, the university offers several Executive Master programs (E.M.A.) in:\n\nThe tuition for the bachelor program amounts to 3,950.00 euro per semester or 675.00 euro per month, for the master programs from 4,000.00 euro to 4,900.00 euro per semester. There are numerous merit-based scholarships by foundations and patrons as well as a student loan of \"Sparkasse Bodensee\" that is offered at a relatively low interest rate and is used by more than half of the students.\n\nStarting from Fall Semester 2011, Zeppelin University reorganized all of their undergraduate degree programmes, converting them into 4-year programs. The additional year is intended to be used as \"Humboldt-year\", a one-year research project at one of the partner universities. Accordingly, it has cooperation agreements for example with University of California, Berkeley, with Sciences Po in Paris, with Copenhagen Business School as well as with Goldsmiths College, London.\n\nZeppelin University is a small and exclusive private university and offers fewer programs than traditional universities in Germany. Due to its young age and small size, it typically goes unranked in international comparisons. Nevertheless, it has reached remarkable results in German Rankings: In the magazine \"Handelsblatt Karriere\", edition 07/08 dated April 27, 2007, Zeppelin University has appeared in a university ranking for the first time. It has instantly reached eighth place with its economic program.\n\nIn the most reputable German Ranking, the \"CHE University Ranking\", which was published by \"ZEIT Studienführer\" 2014/15, the university was able to reach the first place with “Corporate Management & Economics” (CME), while Politics, Administration & International Relations (PAIR) was ranked among the three best Political Science programs. In 2011/12 the Communication & Cultural Management program was ranked first place by \"CHE\". The Sociology, Politics, and Economics degree is not ranked, due to its multidisciplinarity.\n\nIn 2014, the university was listed in an international ranking for the first time: in the \"U-Multirank\" it gained the best grade \"excellent\".\n\nStephan A. Jansen has managed ZU since its foundation and was (age 32 at that time) thereby the youngest university president in history.\n\nWell-known professors include: Nico Stehr, Hans Ulrich Gumbrecht, Helmut Willke, , Georg Jochum, Richard Münch, , Lucia A. Reisch. In 2016, Daniel Dahm joined ZU as vice director of the European Center for Sustainability Research. In August 2007, Birger Priddat was appointed president and managing director of the Witten/Herdecke University.\n"}
