{"id": "52520596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52520596", "title": "1995 World Polo Championship", "text": "1995 World Polo Championship\n\nThe 1995 World Polo Championship was played in St. Moritz, Switzerland during 1995 and was won by Brazil. This event brought together six teams from around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "52661501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52661501", "title": "20/21 British Art Fair", "text": "20/21 British Art Fair\n\nThe 20/21 British Art Fair is a London-based art fair presenting modern, post War and contemporary British art.\n\nA number of galleries exhibit at the fair each year. The fair has been held at the Royal College of Art in South Kensington, west London, in September each year. In 2012, the fair celebrated its 25th anniversary. Due to a loss of availability of the venue, it was cancelled in 2016, but in June 2017 it was held during at the Mall Galleries in St James's, central London. In 2018, the exhibit moved to Saatchi Gallery at the Duke of York's HQ, which is intended to become the exhibit's new permanent home.\n\n"}
{"id": "34998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34998", "title": "479 BC", "text": "479 BC\n\nYear 479 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Vibulanus and Rutilus (or, less frequently, year 275 \"Ab urbe condita\"). The denomination 479 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38534810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38534810", "title": "Aerial reconnaissance in World War II", "text": "Aerial reconnaissance in World War II\n\nA transformational growth in air reconnaissance occurred in the years 1939-45, especially in Britain and then in the United States. It was an expansion determined mostly by trial and error, represented mostly by new tactics, new procedures, and new technology, though rarely by specialized aircraft types. The mission type branched out into many sub-types, including new electronic forms of reconnaissance. In sharp contrast with the case during the pre-war years, by 1945 air reconnaissance was widely recognized as a vital, indispensable component of air power.\n\nIn the interwar years, reconnaissance languished as a mission type and tended to be overshadowed by routine aerial mapping. This was despite the growth (in the United States and Britain) of a doctrine of strategic bombardment as the decisive weapon of war. Experience would soon prove that bombing was completely ineffective unless accompanied by intensive aerial reconnaissance.\nIn the 1930s, gradual technical progress in the leading air nations led to advances particularly in photogrammetry and cartography, but failed to be translated into a capable operational reconnaissance capability. The various parties went into the new war with mostly the same cameras and procedures they had used when exiting the last one. Stereoscopic imaging using overlapping exposures was refined and standardized for mapping. Color photography from the air was introduced in 1935 in the United States, but did not find widespread application. Experiments with flash bomb photography at night were carried out pre-war, but did not lead to an operational capability until later in the war. In the United States, apart from the case of small army-cooperation observation planes, the emphasis was almost completely on aerial mapping conducted by long-range bombers. In Germany, the Army Chief, Werner Freiherr von Fritsch, noted that in the next war, whoever had the best air reconnaissance would win – and thereby won himself a perfunctory mention in almost all subsequent works on the topic. Yet in all countries, initial doctrines were focused on battlefield observation, which assumed a relatively static front, as it had been in the previous war.\n\nStrategic reconnaissance in its embryonic form began with the flights carried out over Germany by Australian businessman Sidney Cotton just before the outbreak of war in Europe. On behalf of first French and then British intelligence, Cotton outfitted civilian Lockheed Electras with hidden cameras and was able to snap useful footage during business trips. Cotton pioneered (for the British) the trimetrogon mount and the important innovation of heated cameras, fogging being the bane of high-altitude photography. However, a multi-lens trimetrogon had been used in the 1919 U.S. Bagley mapping camera, and Germany had heated optics during the Great War.\n\nSidney Cotton’s work found only grudging approval with the Royal Air Force, but eventually his work was incorporated into No. 1 Photographic Development Unit (PDU) at RAF Heston and then RAF Benson, a unit from which most later British air reconnaissance developed. (It soon was renamed 1 PRU, R for reconnaissance.) Key to the RAF’s intellectual ascendancy in reconnaissance was the establishment of the Central Interpretation Unit (CIU) at RAF Medmenham. Priority tasks of this unit were to prepare target folders and to chart Axis air defenses. In short order, it began to evaluate the effectiveness of bombing. See Photo interpretation.\n\nAt first Britain used a handful of hastily modified Spitfires (PR 1) and some medium twins (Bristol Blenheims) for photographic reconnaissance, supplemented by in-action footage shot from regular bombing aircraft. At this time the RAF still used the vintage F8 and F24 cameras, later adding the larger F52. The F24 became especially useful in night photography. Thanks to bomb damage assessment (BDA) the complete failure of precision daylight bombing soon became apparent, the vast majority of bombers not even coming close to their targets. This resulted in heavier demands on reconnaissance for before-and-after photography; and the documented poor results (as well as heavy losses) led to a shift to night-time area bombing.\n\nBritain was far behind Germany in optics, and at one time 1 PRU took two Zeiss Ikon cameras with 60 cm lenses from a lost Ju 88 and used them for high-altitude photography.\n\nBy 1941, the RAF had a capable reconnaissance arm (1 PRU) centered at RAF Benson, supported by a nascent infrastructure in interpretation and analysis. The Combined/Joint Intelligence Committee (CIC) ensured centralized tasking for critical objectives. The RAF led this field by far, and in 1941 several American observers from both the U.S. Army Air Corps (USAAC) and the U.S. Navy were sent to England to investigate RAF reconnaissance methods.\n\nUnlike the case in the previous war, French reconnaissance was now comparatively ineffective on all levels, and entirely lacked a strategic perspective. Most aircraft allocated to the mission type were obsolete. Large numbers of open-cockpit Mureaux 115/117 and light twin Potez 630 series were assigned to Army cooperation according to observation doctrines from the previous war. However, the new and scarce Bloch 174 twin distinguished itself by its high performance. Noted writer and reconnaissance pilot Antoine de Saint-Exupéry flew this aircraft before the fall of France.\n\nDespite a considerable technological and numerical head start, Germany gradually neglected aerial reconnaissance, at least relative to Britain. The reason, grounded in history and geography, was that Germany had no strategic bombing doctrine and viewed air power as an auxiliary of land armies. Numerous Aufklärungs (up-clearing, i.e. reconnaissance) units were established for marine and ground support purposes, but while this was effective in the tactical sense, the intellectual investment in interpretation, analysis, and strategic estimation lagged. From the German perspective, this was defensible considering that about 90% of the action lay in large land-battles in the East, and an expensive long-range air capability would have been unlikely to effectively change the outcome.\n\nLeading up to the war, the United States developed an indigenous high-quality optics capability led by Bausch & Lomb of Rochester, N.Y.; however this company had been allied to Germany’s Zeiss-Jena. Nonetheless, the American reconnaissance expert, then-captain George William Goddard, said that he much coveted German technical leadership, specifically as represented by Carl Zeiss Jena optical works, and he was pleased to briefly occupy that facility at the end of the war. But the German Air Force, expecting a quick victory, did not build an integrated reconnaissance and interpretation capability as a core national security asset like the Anglo Allies did.\n\nBefore 22 June 1941, German reconnaissance was far predominant in frequency with many daily sorties throughout the region. Leading up to the invasion of France, concentration was on ports, forts, railways and airports, using mostly Do 17Ps and He 111Hs, already vulnerable types, and rapid conversion to Ju 88D, later Ju 88H followed. Losses were on the order of 5-10%. A regular daily weather reconnaissance was kept up over the North Sea. Maritime reconnaissance from France and Norway reached well west of Ireland to the coast of Greenland using Focke Wulf Fw 200 and various multi-engine seaplanes.\n\nGermany used the LZ 130 Graf Zeppelin airship for sigint sorties targeting RAF radar stations in 1939.\n\nGerman units were divided into Fernaufklärer (long-distance), Nahaufklärer (tactical, subordinate to Army command), Nachtaufklärer (night photography), and maritime and special units. Command structure and unit designations changed incessantly. Each staffel (squadron, roughly) had a Bildgruppe of interpreters, who would telephone urgent intelligence to nearby headquarters. Film and analyses would go to Fliegerkorps (higher-level) staff later; eventually top-level staff at Oberkommando der Wehrmacht (OKW) headquarters at Zossen near Berlin would receive the products for filing and possibly strategic integration.\n\nGermany emphasized tactical reconnaissance and invested considerably in both modified aircraft – primarily Ju 88s and Ju 188s – and in dedicated types such as the asymmetric Blohm & Voss BV 141 (20 built) and the twin-boom Fw 189 \"Uhu\" (nearly 900 produced). This Nahaufklärung was primarily successful on the Eastern Front where immediate results were desired, and these units were directly under Army field command. For special demanding tasks a high-altitude photographic reconnaissance aircraft, the pressurized Ju 86P was available in very small numbers, but it could not survive after 1943. Also pressurized, the Ju 388L could reach 45,000 feet and much higher airspeeds than the Ju 86P but only 50 examples were built late in the war and few saw operational service. Fighters, often with dual oblique cameras in the rear fuselage, were pressed into service for reconnaissance where their speed was necessary, and performed well in this role. Overall, however German reconnaissance against well-defended England was relatively ineffective.\n\nPrior to Operation Barbarossa, the German attack on the USSR, the German Air Force did carry out an extensive pre-strike aerial observation of European Russia. This was possible partly because Soviet air opposition was weak, and because of the Soviet leadership’s conviction that Germany would not attack. The Luftwaffe maintained air superiority in the East until late in the war, but simply could not bring enough resources to bear for air power to be decisive.\n\nAxis partners, Italy and Japan, successfully performed long-distance reconnaissance prior to meeting stiffening opposition in 1942. Japanese aircraft reconnoitered the Philippines prior to 7 December 1941.\n\nThe Soviet Union had no advanced reconnaissance resources, but emphasized visual observation and reporting over the battle space. Open-cockpit biplanes such as the Po-2 were very useful for this, especially at night. The Soviets had virtually no interest in long-range air power or strategic reconnaissance, and had no advanced optics capabilities. However, they learned a lot about the discipline from the Americans when the U.S. Army Air Forces operated from three Ukrainian bases in 1944 (Operation Frantic). This operation included a photo-reconnaissance detachment which shared all results with the USSR. At the same time, Americans learned that Soviet photoreconnaissance capabilities were embryonic.\n\nJapanese reconnaissance was characterized by institutional rivalry between the Army and the Navy. The latter standardized on the Yokosuka \"Suisei\" (\"Judy\") and Nakajima C6N (\"Myrt\") multi-seat aircraft. The Army, which encountered little air opposition in China, used a variety of aircraft types and cameras.\n\nItaly entered the war in 1940 with a very large number of obsolete observation aircraft, mostly open-cockpit biplanes assigned directly to Army commands. Initially, some strategic surveillance was carried out by three-engined bombers, and Italian aircraft ranged from Nigeria to Abyssinia to Bahrein (one flew to Japan and back). Italian reconnaissance could not survive in contested airspace.\n\nNeutral countries seemingly remained in the World War I mindset of trench observation. While aerial photography was allocated to tactically inferior aircraft, and aerial mapping advanced considerably, there was no concept of strategic reconnaissance and little thought given to analysis and interpretation. Surprisingly, this was even the case in the United States, where the Air Corps had staked its future on the doctrine of strategic bombing. Up to 1940, the USAAC’s interest in reconnaissance was centered in one small office at Wright Field, Ohio, headed by the controversial Captain George William Goddard. He was responsible for most of the technical advantages adopted by the USAAC during the early war years. The extensive O-series of aircraft, such as the Douglas O-38 and its descendants, were typically low and slow and used for direct Army liaison, artillery spotting, and observation. The OA series of observation amphibians were mostly Army variants of better known Navy types, such as the Consolidated PBY Catalina. These were in practice more utility aircraft than dedicated reconnaissance platforms. In December 1941, complacency and inadequate leadership led to the failure to detect the Japanese task force north of Hawaii from the air. Also, the Americans labored under the handicap that much equipment was assigned to Britain as fast as it could be produced.\n\nBy 1941, prompted by the British experience, Americans began to understand the need for a much expanded air reconnaissance concept. The F-series, which denoted photographic reconnaissance, was then led by the F-3A, a modified A-20 Havoc. Thanks in large part to the advocacy of the Director of Photographic Intelligence, the also very controversial Colonel Minton Kaye, a run of 100 Lockheed P-38s were set aside for modification to F-4 standard, incorporating the trigonometric mount that both Kaye and Cotton had pioneered prior to the war. Despite the promising performance of the F-4, there were so many technical problems with the early versions that the model was largely rejected by its crews when it did reach combat zones. The RAF rejected the P-38, as well.\n\nThe first U.S. operational reconnaissance experience was gained in the Australian theater. The top name to emerge was that of Colonel Karl Polifka, an extremely aggressive pilot who developed many of the tactics that would later become standard. Operating from Port Moresby to Rabaul, his F-4-equipped 8th PR squadron encountered serious problems reducing it at one time to one aircraft, but the valuable experience gained was shared by Polifka when he returned to the U.S. in 1943.\n\nWhen the United States and Britain invaded French North Africa in November 1942, the hastily improvised reconnaissance capability was quickly checked by reality. President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s son, Colonel Elliott Roosevelt, led the American reconnaissance assets and in February joined with RAF units in the multinational Northwest African Photographic Reconnaissance Wing (NAPRW). At that point the Wing had found the F-4 unsatisfactory, the F-9 or B-17 Fortress unable to survive over enemy territory, and the new British de Havilland Mosquito to be the most promising reconnaissance platform. British squadrons in the Mediterranean took over the slack left by the Americans. Numerous other technical and tactical problems virtually brought American reconnaissance to a halt; but it rebounded swiftly, and by the time of the invasion of Sicily in July (Operation Husky), a very credible joint capability existed, the NAPRW comprising South African, Free French, and New Zealand units as well as RAF and USAAC units. By that time, new F-5 models of the Lightning were becoming available, and they were found to be far more reliable and capable. However, this period marked the beginning of a year-long struggle by the USAAF, led especially by Colonel Roosevelt, to acquire the Mosquito and to also develop a brand new reconnaissance aircraft – a quest that would result in the ill-fated and scandal-ridden Hughes XF-11.\n\nThe RAF continued to display leadership in the field, and now took on the role of on-the-job mentor to the Americans. Spitfires and Mosquitos were found to be the best reconnaissance platforms, as everyone now realized that speed, range, and altitude were essential to survival and good photographs. Second-line photographic aircraft (such as Bostons, Blenheims, Marylands) were relegated to less contested skies. The RAF turned Medmenham into the Allied Central Interpretation Unit (ACIU), inviting the Americans to participate on a joint basis, and continued to spin off new squadrons with high-performance reconnaissance aircraft based both in the British Isles and in the Mediterranean. Other RAF units operated in the Far East, often with slightly less capable aircraft such as Hawker Hurricanes and B-25 Mitchells.\n\nA very large fraction of RAF reconnaissance was consumed in tracking German capital ships. This endeavor even included stationing photo detachments at Vaenga air field on the Kola Peninsula. When the British returned home, their reconnaissance aircraft were given to the Soviets.\n\nDuring this period Wing Commander Adrian Warburton built a reputation as a daring and productive reconnaissance pilot; and Wing Commander D. W. Steventon undertook many important missions, inc. some of the first overflights of the German experimental site of Peenemunde on the Baltic coast. The interpreters at ACIU gained recognition for their expertise, F/O Constance Babington Smith, MBE and Sarah (Churchill) Oliver being among the noted names. A scientific approach to reconnaissance developed, topped by the involvement of the Prime Minister when particularly notable results were discussed, such as the discovery of German jet fighters in test. The RAF also early developed the standard three-phase interpretation procedure: first phase required immediate response (such as advancing columns of armor sighted); second phase required 24- hour handling (such as concentrations of landing crafts in ports); and third phase was for long-term analysis (such as industrial targets like coal gasification plants). Also, the distinction between strategic and tactical reconnaissance became clear, and sub-specialties like weather reconnaissance, radar photography, and bomb-damage assessment (BDA) became current. Both sides developed programs of regular weather reconnaissance in the Atlantic. In addition, the technique widely known as “dicing” – extreme low-altitude photography at high speed – came to be adopted by the Allies for special work.\nColonel Roosevelt pioneered night photography over Sicily. Flash bombs had to set off at very precise timing in order to capture the image, and in time the Edgerton D-2 Flash System came into wide use, this involving capacitor discharge at precise intervals. Also, infrared film began to be used at the end of the war. It was generally agreed that the Mosquito, designated F-8 by the Americans, was the best platform – apart from its performance, it offered the use of another operator in the glazed nose, which made both navigation and the very delicate selection of camera controls to match speed and altitude easier than in the single-seat F-5 Lightnings. Nonetheless, the Americans began to standardize on F-5s and F-6 Mustangs in order to promote an indigenous capability and break away from the RAF’s tutelage.\n\nBy D-day, the U.S. 8th and 9th Air Forces had an immense reconnaissance wing in Colonel Roosevelt’s 325th Reconnaissance Wing. It commanded two groups, the 25th Bombardment Group at RAF Watton and the 7th PRG at RAF Mount Farm (other units supported tactical reconnaissance for the 9th Air Force). The seven squadrons of the 325th provided routine weather recon, pathfinder-services, BDA, chaff and other electronic services, radar photography and night missions, as well as special operations in support of inserted agents. In Italy, the Mediterranean Allied Photographic Reconnaissance Wing under Colonel Polifka provided similar services, and using staging bases in the Ukraine these units together could provide full, regular coverage of the shrinking Axis territory.\n\nThe RAF maintained a similar large number of reconnaissance squadrons, dominated by Spitfires and Mosquitos; however, in the Far East and the Middle East, less capable types tended to be allocated to reconnaissance and army cooperation. For example, in Iraq during the 1941 Nazi coup, the RAF relied on Hawker Audax biplanes. What had begun with one PRU in 1940 eventually amounted to several dozen squadrons worldwide.\n\nBecause of a singular devotion to victory through strategic bombing, the USAAF placed extraordinary emphasis on reconnaissance. As an example, the need to destroy German petroleum, oil and lubricants facilities required careful monitoring to decide not only what to hit, but when and how much – and then when to hit them again. This led to an emphasis on long-term surveillance, and also to centralized analysis correlating photography with other sources (such as agents on the ground). Although the RAF usually preferred area bombing, it promoted a similar reconnaissance emphasis, for example in the celebrated discovery, coverage, and analysis of the Peenemunde rocket range which culminated in an important August 1943 raid. The Axis had no comparable strategic capability and most Axis air resources were consumed in support of massive ground battles.\n\nIn general, Western reconnaissance aircraft were unarmed, not only to maximize performance, but to emphasize the objective of bringing back pictures, not engaging the enemy. They also usually flew singly or in widely spread pairs. In special circumstances it was necessary to bring along fighter escorts; this phenomenon arose again in the last months when the hitherto sovereign Mosquito began to be picked off by Me 262 jets. Selected heavy bombers carried film cameras and cameramen. The 8th Air Force’s 8th Combat Camera Unit thus documented much of the air war, and these films are much more frequently shown today than are the static images of regular reconnaissance.\n\nD-Day constituted the single biggest photo-recon job in history. One who was there reported that at the ACIU, 1,700 officers and enlistees studied 85,000 images daily. There were 12,000 Allied aircraft in the air over the region that day. If the invasion was counted as a major reconnaissance success, the Ardennes offensive (known in America as the Battle of the Bulge) in December was a major failure. Post-battle investigation maintained that the problem lay not in obtaining airborne evidence, but in integrating the numerous disparate data points into a coherent picture. Also, by then the Germans had learned to move by night and under cover of seasonal bad weather when possible. These countermeasures, also including going underground and exploiting snow cover, came to represent some of the limitations of overhead reconnaissance even in conditions of overwhelming air superiority.\n\nGerman reconnaissance languished in the west because radar-aided air defenses there made survival unlikely. Apart from the ubiquitous Ju 88s, the Heinkel He 177s proved valuable as a reconnaissance platform but that type was extremely troubled mechanically. In effect, the Luftwaffe was unable to carry out regular surveillance of critical targets like the British Isles prior to the invasion of June 1944; indeed, one German aircraft was “allowed” to overfly Dover in order to report on a fake invasion build-up there. (However, Brugioni maintains that Germany did conduct sufficient flights to estimate the time and place of the invasion.)\n\nAfter this, a few jets became available: Arado Ar 234 allocated to Sonderkommandos, but although they were uninterceptable the results brought back seems to have added little value to the German war effort. A version of the very advanced Dornier Do 335 was assigned to recon duties. Reconnaissance was more successful in the East, and the Germans did carry out large-scale photographic mapping, some of which would later benefit the western Allies. The Luftwaffe also successfully deployed night photography with flash bombs, as amply documented by the BDA of the annihilating German attack on the USAAF in the Ukrainian SSR in June 1944.\n\nAt sea, Germany had a considerable early lead in long-range aircraft, chiefly represented by the Fw 200 \"Condor\". This was a converted airliner unsuitable for the rigors of combat. As a Fernaufklärer, the large Ju 290 had the necessary range, but it was produced in low numbers and was very vulnerable. Seeaufklärer and Kustenflieger groups used seaplanes of many different types with considerable success in coastal areas, especially from Norway. By 1942-43 the Condor menace was subsiding, and German long-range aircraft had great difficulty surviving in the Atlantic. They were much more effective in Northern Norway against the Arctic convoys. Germany adopted armed reconnaissance as an expediency at these long ranges.\n\nFinally, the industrial centers arrayed against the Axis – in the United States and the Urals and Siberia – were simply out of reach of strategic reconnaissance. As always it was at the tactical level that the Germans excelled, and short-range aircraft were able to hold their own in the East until fuel, pilots, and even aircraft became depleted. Experts generally hold that the top German leadership failed to understand air power, and Hitler has been especially blamed for lacking the strategic perspective that the West Allies adopted. But since the industrial mismatch was insurmountable, it is doubtful what difference a greater German emphasis on strategic reconnaissance and commensurate bombardment would have made.\n\nThe Allies were slow to allocate very long ranged aircraft to maritime duties. They needed long-range maritime surveillance to hunt submarines just as the Luftwaffe needed it to hunt convoys. Stung by catastrophic losses, in April 1943 the United States finally allocated sufficient numbers of VLR (very long range) aircraft to suppress submarines. This was an important factor in defeating the U-boat offensive that spring. Maritime versions of the B-24 served effectively in this maritime patrol role.\n\nThe Soviet Union had virtually no in-depth reconnaissance capability and relied overwhelmingly on human intelligence (humint). By the time of the brief U.S.-Soviet shuttle bombing program in the summer of 1944, the Americans noted that Soviet reconnaissance did not venture far past the front, and that photographic technology was far inferior. At Poltava, the U.S. reconnaissance detachment shared all imagery as well as tactics and technology with their Soviet counterparts, enabling the latter to comprehend American operations and develop an indigenous capability. Besides, for strategic intelligence the Soviets had thoroughly infiltrated both Allied and Axis governments at the most sensitive levels.\n\nIn the Pacific, long range was at a premium, and both fleet and army aircraft soon reflected an overwhelming American advantage. The U.S. Navy, prompted by the intelligence failure at Pearl Harbor, invested in long-range patrol aircraft like the ubiquitous PBY Catalina. However, from early on the Allies had a tremendous unseen advantage in signals intelligence and cryptography, being able to read Axis codes. This led to economies in reconnaissance.\n\nPerhaps surprising considering her small industrial base, Japan may have built the finest and most beautiful reconnaissance aircraft of the war. These included several superb platforms such as “the Japanese Mosquito”, the unarmed Mitsubishi Ki-46 \"Dinah\"; and the extreme-long-range Kawanishi H8K \"Emily\", widely considered the best flying boat of the war. These aircraft reached as far as Ceylon. The Navy’s standard Nakajima C6N \"Myrt\" was also an extremely capable reconnaissance platform from 1944 on. But it does not appear that Japan had the overall industrial capability nor made the intellectual investment necessary to run a competitive reconnaissance branch. From 1943, the Japanese were virtually always on the defensive, while new long-range, high-altitude U.S. aircraft climaxing with the Boeing B-29 Superfortress (F-13 in the reconnaissance role) provided overwhelming American coverage of the Home Islands from mid-1944.\n\nAircraft usually carried several different camera configurations in one bay. A common installation was the trimetrogon: one vertical, and one oblique to each side. Often one aircraft carried several different camera-lens configurations for special purposes. The British found that a rearwards-facing camera could overcome some of the jitter from sideways movement, and that very low-level photography (called dicing) benefitted from an almost side-ways camera view. Most surveillance was conducted from extremely high altitudes, requiring long-focus optics, as reflected in “Goddard’s Law”: In photo-reconnaissance there is no substitute for focal length.\n\nIn the United States, the primary aerial cameras were the K-series and naval F-series produced by Fairchild. Inventor Sherman Fairchild had developed the K-3 in 1919 based on experience from the Great War. His work would dominate the field for decades, including in the form of foreign copies. Initially many cameras still used German Zeiss and Schneider optics. The U.S. K-17 (9x9 inch image) with several different lenses was especially ubiquitous. For mapping, a six-inch lens was standard. The less common K-18 (9x18) was used for high altitude. K-19s were used at night, and the small K-20s (4x5) for low-level obliques. Although standardized on 9X9 inch plates, several similar camera types came into use. The period saw a rapid development of longer focal lengths in order to enable high-resolution high-altitude photography. 12, 24, 36 and ultimately 60-inch lenses came into use. The Americans also produced and used British cameras (F24 as K24). The old James Bagley T-1 mapping camera and its multi-lens descendants were still used strictly for aerial mapping. The Navy used variants of the Fairchild series.\n\nIn Britain, the small F24 (5x5 image) and the derivative but much larger F52 (8.5x7) aerial cameras dominated, the former being used mostly for night photography with the aid of flash bombs. Up to 40-inch lenses were fitted. These cameras had shutter-in-focal-plane, whereas U.S. cameras standardized on shutter-between-lenses, claiming this reduced distortion.\n\nExposures typically required the use of a cockpit-mounted intervalometer, set by reference to speed, altitude, and interval so that the pilot or observer could obtain the correct exposures by keying a switch. Great flight precision was needed especially for exposures for stereography and cartography in general.\n\nWhile German optics were superior, experts noted that standard German reconnaissance cameras, though excellent, were heavy and not optimized for aerial use. Leica seemed to be the main camera manufacturer while optics production was concentrated at ISCO Göttingen (Schneider) and Zeiss. The bulky Rb30 (Reihenbild) and its variants were in common use. This required at least two men for handling and produced 12x12 (32 cm) images. It was supplemented by smaller hand-held cameras, Hk13 (Handkamera) and Hk19, which also could be fitted into the rear fuselage of single-engine fighters. In general, the focal length in cm was indicated by the first number and the plate size by the second, thus Rb50/30. As an example, the Do 17P carried Rb 20/30 + Rb 50/30 or Rb 20/18 + Rb 50/18 cameras as well as defensive guns. The cameras were controlled remotely by the crew from the cockpit. Other configurations arose as needed.\n\nJapanese cameras were a mixture of domestic and imported/copied types. The Navy often used copies of the American Fairchild K-8 and K-20, and also a copy of the U.S. Navy’s F-8. The Army used small, usually handheld Type 96, 99 (K-20), and 100. Konica and Nikon were the main manufactures. Some German cameras were also used. As Japanese reconnaissance aircraft were multi-seat, the rear observer usually operated the cameras. Japan trained only a relative handful of officers as photo interpreters.\n\nBecause of their initial disregard for reconnaissance, all belligerents shared in the failure to develop and field a dedicated, survivable air reconnaissance platform, although they belatedly recognized the need therefore. As a result, nearly all recon aircraft were converted combat aircraft, and the proposed dedicated U.S. types (F-11 and F-12) were canceled after the peace. Soon after the war, the CIA did develop such a dedicated aircraft, the U-2. From 1945 aerial reconnaissance became a critical, high-priority component of national security in both the U.S. and Britain.\n\nThe results obtained from reconnaissance were controversial. Bomb Damage Assessment (BDA) generally revealed less damage than bombers estimated, and even the BDA was found to be inflated after ground truth could be established. The tendency to overestimate both threat and damage was endemic to the field.\n\nQuestions arose over why German reconnaissance had been ineffective. Babington Smith noted that the Zossen image library was soon discovered in a barn in Bad Reichenhall near Berchtesgaden, and that the square-foot sized photographs were impressive. But interrogations revealed that the interpreters were poorly trained, didn’t use stereoscopes, and “it was a horrible warning as to what photographic intelligence can become if it is based on the wrong concepts, and staffed almost entirely by uninspired plodders.”\n\nThe failure of the Axis to measure up in reconnaissance cannot be ascribed to technical deficiency or indifference. Despite many efforts in this direction, it also cannot be wholly ascribed to top-level stupidity, since the Axis had no monopoly on this either. As in many other aspects of the war, it instead highlighted that reconnaissance must be viewed and developed holistically, as a national (or multinational) capability integrating many advanced resources, scientific, industrial, and intellectual; it also requires a centralized management tying it in with other intelligence specialties and related disciplines like targeting. In these matters, once aroused, the Anglo powers together had the required heft and persistence; the opposition simply was not nearly as strong or as mentally adjusted to a protracted global conflict.\n\nOne of the top objectives of Allied occupation was the center of optical excellence in Jena; Colonel Goddard said that U.S. bombers had orders to spare Jena. In June 1945 the Americans under Goddard evacuated most of the top scientific staff to the West; however, Soviet troops moved the physical plant to the USSR, enslaving the remaining high-value workers there.\n\nAs soon as the war ended, the USAAF in Europe used existing resources in an all-out effort to map Europe from the air before diplomatic considerations would make it difficult. Similar efforts were made elsewhere. The United States got access to a limited amount of German coverage of the European part of the Soviet Union, and soon began a costly and technically ambitious program to obtain pictures of the rest.\n\nFrom 1946, the focus was no longer just on photography, but on signals intelligence and especially on new air sampling methods to detect and analyze nuclear fall-out. The extremely close operating relationship between the RAF and the USAAF (USAF from 1947) would survive the war, and the tactics, technology, terminology and in general the shared intellectual infrastructure in aerial surveillance and analysis would transition into the Cold War, becoming embodied in the National Reconnaissance Office by 1960. By then, no other country, including the Soviet Union, had national technical means for reconnaissance remotely rivaling those the RAF-USAF founded during the war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9344525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9344525", "title": "AnimeCon", "text": "AnimeCon\n\nAnimeCon, held in San Jose, California in 1991, was the fourth anime convention created in the United States, the first convention to have major backing from the anime industry, the first anime-specific convention within the state of California (which spawned many similar conventions thereafter), and the first anime-specific convention in the US to break 1,000 attendees. It also formed the genesis of Anime Expo (currently the largest anime-specific convention in North America).\n\nGuests included Jerry Beck, Colleen Doran, Geoff Everets, Carl Macek, Ken Macklin, Johji Manabe, Leiji Matsumoto, Luke Menichelli, Haruhiko Mikimoto, Robert Napton, John O'Donnell, Toshio Okada, Katsuhiro Otomo, David Riddick, Yoshiyuki Sadamoto, Toren Smith, Kenichi Sonoda, Rick Sternbach, Jeff Thompson, Adam Warren, Robert Woodhead, Trish Ledoux and Toshifumi Yoshida.\n\nAttendance was officially estimated at 2,000.\n\nThe convention was co-sponsored by Gainax, Cal-Animage, the founders of BayCon, BAAS, and Studio Proteus.\n\nDuring its inaugural year, AnimeCon went deeply into debt due to severe budget overruns. Soon after, a management dispute erupted which imperiled the chance of a follow-on. Many of the staff went on to form Anime Expo, while others went on to form a rival convention, Anime America (which was canceled in 1997 and went defunct shortly thereafter). The period between late 1992 and early 1997 is sometimes referred to as the \"Con Wars\" by attendees and staffers of both conventions. It was typified by a number of personal attacks and allegations of sabotage on and off the Internet (and in particular on rec.arts.anime).\n\nAlthough Anime Expo is, for all practical purposes, considered separate from AnimeCon, the Society for the Promotion of Japanese Animation (AX's parent organization) took control of AnimeCorp in 1992 and assumed many of its legal and financial obligations (including all debts incurred), the rights to the AnimeCon name, and existing stocks of unsold merchandise (including large numbers of the aforementioned T-shirts). Pre-registrations for the planned AnimeCon '92 were converted into Anime Expo '92 pre-registrations. Sometime after which, AnimeCon Corporation was formally dissolved.\n\nToday, AnimeCon merchandise is considered a collectible item by some. Program booklets and T-shirts can still be found. AnimeCon T-shirts were sold on behalf of the SPJA during the subsequent years of AX.\n"}
{"id": "35686156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35686156", "title": "April 2012 Damascus bombings", "text": "April 2012 Damascus bombings\n\nThe 27 April 2012 Damascus bombing was a suicide attack that targeted the Syrian military, killing nine people. The event, occurred during the Syrian Civil War, was claimed by the al-Nusra Front.\n"}
{"id": "25164474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25164474", "title": "Argentine Military Cemetery", "text": "Argentine Military Cemetery\n\nThe Argentine Military Cemetery, (Darwin Cemetery), is a military cemetery on East Falkland that holds the remains of 237 Argentine combatants killed during the 1982 Falklands War (). It is located west of the Darwin Settlement close to the location of the Battle of Goose Green and there is a replica of the cemetery at Berazategui in Buenos Aires Province Argentina.\n\nWhen the war ended on June 14, 1982, most Argentine bodies were left in temporary graves close to where they fell. Britain offered to send them to Buenos Aires, but the ruling military junta said they were already in their homeland.\n\nIn December 1982 the British government commissioned a firm of civilian undertakers under the command of British Army Colonel Geoffrey Cardozo, to consolidate all the temporary Argentine graves on the Islands to a single location. Assisted by the armed forces, they identified and documented each Argentine grave site and brought the bodies to Port Darwin. As at the time this was the largest single Argentine grave site, with the bodies of the 47 Argentine soldiers, killed at the Battle of Goose Green and buried there soon after the battle.\n\nMany of the bodies collected were without dog-tags, so best efforts were made to identify each soldier from personal effects found on the body. Single items were not considered conclusive, but collections were. All were given a Christian burial with full military honours. Each grave is marked by a white wooden cross with the name of the soldier on it if known or \"Soldado Argentino Solo Conocido Por Dios\" (\"Argentine Soldier Known Only By God\") if not.\n\nThere is also a common grave on Pebble Island containing the 5 crewman of a T-24 Learjet, belonging to Fenix Squadron shot down by a surface-air missile from HMS Exeter, over Pebble Island on June 7. This grave contains the remains of airman: Comodoro Rodolfo de la Colina, Vicecomodoro Juan Jose Ramon Falconier, Major Marcelo Lotufo, Subof Pr Francisco Tomas Luna and Subof Ay Guido Antonio Marizza.\n\nThe cemetery is protected by a walled enclosure with a cenotaph including an image of Argentina's patron saint, the Virgen del Lujan. Surrounding the graves, the names of the 649 Argentine soldiers, sailors and airmen who lost their lives in the conflict, are inscribed on glass plaques, with no indication of military rank or service, as requested by their families.\n\n\nOn 9 November 2002 Prince Andrew, himself a Falklands War Veteran, visited the Argentine cemetery and laid a wreath. During the visit the Prince said, \"I lost friends and colleagues and I know what it must be like for the great many Argentines who have shared the same experience.\"\n\nSince the UK-Argentine joint statement on 14 July 1999 Argentine families are responsible for the cemetery's upkeep and in 2007, Sebastián Socodo, an Argentine married to a Falkland Islander, was employed to do the job of cemetery maintenance.\n\nIn total 649 Argentines were killed during the 74 days of the conflict.\n\nThe greatest loss of life in the war was in the sinking of the Argentine Navy cruiser ARA \"General Belgrano\", with 321 members of the crew and 2 civilians on board at the time, with most of these going down with her.\n\n\nFifty-two Argentine combatants were lost with aircraft or ships and their remains were not recovered:\n\nIn July 2012 the glass casing protecting a figure of Argentina's patron saint, the Virgin of Luján, at the head of the cemetery was smashed with what appeared to be an axe. Argentina presented a formal protest to the British government and informed the United Nations and the International Red Cross. Sebastián Socodo, an Argentinian-Falklander responsible for the cemetery's upkeep, said families were notified and that it was not clear when it occurred or who the perpetrators were. Police in the Falklands held an investigation and the glass casing was repaired.\n\nA further act of vandalism was found in January 2017, when the glass was broken and the head of the Virgin of Luján statue damaged.\nThe Argentinian Foreign Ministry made a formal complaint to the British Government condemning the vandalism and calling for an enquiry. \nA Falkland Islands Government statement described the act as \"distressing for the families (of the soldiers) and regretted by the people of the Falkland Islands\" and an enquiry was begun by the Royal Falkland Islands Police. Former British Foreign Minister Sir Alan Duncan offered his apologies to the Argentine Government, welcoming the enquiry. \n\nAs part of a joint project between the UK, Falkland Islands, Argentine Government and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), a forensic team exhumed, analyzed and documented the remains in each of the unidentified graves in the Argentine cemetery with this DNA compared to that of surviving family members. The DNA identification project was co-funded by the UK and Argentine Governments as a humanitarian initiative in line with international law. \nOn 13 September 2016 a UK-Argentina Joint Communication both countries expressed their full support for a DNA identification process in respect of all unknown Argentine soldiers buried in the Falkland Islands. The ICRC's multinational 14-member forensic anthropology team began its efforts in June 2017 with samples analyzed in the Argentine Forensic Anthropology Team's laboratory, and scientists in the United Kingdom and Spain confirmed the results of the DNA testing.\n\nAs of March 2018 the identity of Ninety bodies has been confirmed and more than 200 relatives of these soldiers were able to visit the actual grave for the first time. . On March 26 2018 Argentina’s Secretary for Human Rights, Claudio Avruj accompanied the Argentine families, along with retired British Army Colonel Geoffrey Cardozo, who was originally responsible for burying the Argentine dead immediately after the conflict. The visit included a religious ceremony jointly conducted by Auxiliary Bishop of Buenos Aires, Bishop Eguia Segui, and the Right Reverend Abbott Hugh Allan from the United Kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57071174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57071174", "title": "Ballet Fest Sarajevo", "text": "Ballet Fest Sarajevo\n\nBallet Fest Sarajevo () is an annual ballet festival held in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is held in September of every year and lasts for 7 days. The festival was established in 2010 by the Sarajevo National Theatre and the Sarajevo Ballet. It is devoted to contemporary author choreography and showcases the most established ballets from Southeastern Europe. It is the only ballet festival in Bosnia and Herzegovina. \n\n"}
{"id": "842094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=842094", "title": "Battle of Chengpu", "text": "Battle of Chengpu\n\nThe Battle of Chengpu took place in 632 BC between the State of Jin and the State of Chu and its allies during the Spring and Autumn period of Chinese history. It was the first great battle in the protracted conflict between the states of the Yellow River valley, and the states of the Yangtze River valley. The Jin victory confirmed the hegemony of Duke Wen and checked Chu ambitions in the north for at least a generation.\n\nFollowing the death of Duke Huan of Qi in 643 BC, the state of Chu steadily extended its influence northward, absorbing half a dozen smaller states as its satellites. In 636 BC, Chong'er, a ducal prince of Jin, after spending fifteen years in exile traveling throughout numerous states, came to power as Duke Wen of Jin with the help of Duke Mu of Qin. Duke Wen assumed a position of leadership among the states and instituted numerous domestic reforms.\n\nIn the years leading up to 632 BC, conflict between Jin and Chu became increasingly public and was characterised by frequent shifts in alliances between the various small states that lay in a narrow band of land between the two larger states.\n\nKing Cheng of Chu struck at the State of Song, the ally of Jin most accessible from the south, in the winter of 633 BCE. In retaliation, an expeditionary force under Duke Wen marched south in the spring of the following year and occupied the States of Wei and Cao, both satellites of Chu. The two sides sought out alliances in the following months. The States of Shen, Xi, Chen and Cai, all immediately contiguous to Chu, sided with King Cheng, as well as the more distant State of Lu.\n\nAs promised by Duke Wen to King Cheng during his exile in Chu, the Jin army retired \"three days march\" (退避三舍) (45 km) before camping on the plain of Chengpu on the border of Wei and Cao, awaiting a decisive battle The retirement also linked the Jin forces up with Qi and Qin reinforcements.\n\nOnly the central force of the Chu under Prime Minister Ziyu (子玉) was made up entirely of Chu troops. The left wing under Zixi incorporated soldiers from Chu's close satellites Shen and Xi. The right wing under Zishang comprised completely a separate detachment from the armies of Chen and Cai, perhaps numbering around a third (?) of the entire force.\n\nThe Jin force was expanded before the expedition from two armies into three: the upper, the central and the lower; these three were then regrouped into wings before the battle: the upper army at the right wing under commander Hu Mao and vice-commander Hu Yan, lower at left under Luan Zhi and vice Xu Chen, central remained at centre under Xian Zhen and vice Xi Zhen. Duke Wen did not direct or engage in the fighting.\n\nOn the fourth day of the fourth month of 632 BC, the rival forces met.\n\nThe battle commenced with the advance of both wings of the Jin army. The Chu right wing was reckoned to be the weakest and Xu Chen, commander of the Jin left wing, attacked. Xu armoured his chariot horses with tiger skins and launched an urgent, vigorous assault on the Chu right wing. The attack was rapidly successful, scattering and demolishing the enemy wing completely.\n\nThe Jin left then became a holding force, fixing the Chu center and preventing it from attacking the Jin centre or aiding the Chu left wing, since in either case the Jin left would have taken it in the flank and rear. Meanwhile, Hu Mao's Jin right wing had skirmished with the enemy, faked a retreat and carried with them the two great banners of the Jin commander-in-chief himself. The Chu left, made up of levies from the states of Shen and Xi, thought that the Jin right wing had lost and Ziyu ordered a pursuit. A contingent of chariots under Luan Zhi swept in front and dragged tree branches to raise a dust cloud and thereby obscure the movements of Hu Mao's men who were circling and reforming.\n\nThe Jin left aided by the Jin center continued to maintain their positions against the Chu center. Though the Jin centre was temporarily disordered by an intense whirlwind, it was effective in preventing the Chu center from supporting its left wing. As the Chu left advanced, it was caught in the flank by Duke Wen's bodyguards, composed of the sons of noble clansmen and sons of his close followers and thus flanked by the Jin central army. Meanwhile, the entire force of the Jin right wing completed its recircling and was supported on its right by Luan Zhi's chariots to join the assault. The Chu left was completely destroyed. Seeing both his wings enveloped, Ziyu ordered a general retreat.\n\nThe Battle of Chengpu is one of the biggest battles of the Spring and Autumn period and the most detailed in the \"Zuo Zhuan\". Nevertheless, the location of the battle remains obscure: two inconclusive possibilities are the vicinity of Chenliu, Henan and the southwest area of Juancheng County, Shandong. After returning to the north, Duke Wen was recognised by the King of Zhou as first among the feudal lords. A multi-state conference at Jiantu in 631 BC headed by Duke Wen confirmed their support for the Zhou royal family and swore a covenant of alliance. The battle, however, was not effective in the long term in restricting the power of Chu.\n"}
{"id": "16472898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16472898", "title": "Blossom Kite Festival", "text": "Blossom Kite Festival\n\nThe Blossom Kite Festival, formerly the Smithsonian Kite Festival, is an annual kite event usually held on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. in late March during the National Cherry Blossom Festival. The 2018 kite festival took place on the Washington Monument grounds on Saturday, March 31.\n\nThe festival was founded in 1967 by aviation pioneer Paul E. Garber, the first curator of the National Air and Space Museum (NASM). Until 2010, the Smithsonian Associates, the cultural, educational, and membership division of the Smithsonian Institution organized and sponsored the festival. The National Cherry Blossom Festival, Inc. began producing the festival in 2011 and renamed the event to the \"Blossom Kite Festival\".\n\nSponsored by the Smithsonian National Associate Program (see S. Dillon Ripley Center) and the NASM, the first annual Smithsonian Kite Carnival (later referred to as the Kite Festival) took place on the National Mall on March 25, 1967. Individuals could compete in contests with homemade kites as well as ready-made ones. The festival also included kite-making workshops led by Paul Garber, a lecture series, and a special display of kites made by Garber and his wife. \n\nHowever, an 1892 law that was still in effect barred the flying of kites, balloons and parachutes within the city limits of Washington, D.C. In 1970, the Smithsonian Institution was therefore denied a permit to hold its annual kite flying carnival on the National Mall. On April 18, 1970, police arrested 11 people who were protesting the law by flying kites near the Washington Monument. As kite enthusiasts were not allowed to have the kite carnival that year in D.C., they moved the event to Fort Washington in Prince George's County, Maryland. The law was subsequently changed, permitting the kite carnival/festival to again be held on the National Mall.\n\nThe 2008 Smithsonian Kite Festival was held on Saturday, March 29 on the National Mall. The festival, which was tied to the 2008 Summer Olympics to be held in Beijing, China, from August 8 to August 24, 2008, highlighted the art and history of Chinese kites. The Smithsonian stated that the Chinese introduced the first kites more than 2,000 years ago. According to the Smithsonian, the Chinese first used kites in military affairs for estimating distances and carrying propaganda leaflets, but the kites' influence gradually spread to Western countries to become what the Smithsonian called a “familiar artistic and cultural icon.” The Smithsonian stated that kites continue to play an important role in China.\n\nThe 2009 Smithsonian Kite Festival was held on Saturday, March 28, on the Washington Monument grounds. The theme of the festival was \"Going Green\". Participants were encouraged to create environmentally and thematically “green” kites from renewable resources such as bamboo and recyclable goods such as paper and cloth. Organizers expected to distribute 1,000 free kites to children on a first come, first served basis.\n\nThe 2010 Smithsonian Kite Festival, which the Smithsonian Associates and the NASM presented, took place on Saturday, March 27. The theme was \"CRAFTed for Flight\". Events included the competitive Rokkaku Battle, Hot Tricks Showdown and Ground Display. The festival also featured a kitemaking competition that was open to any hand-made kite. Adult competitors and a team of judges ranging from kitemaking experts to local celebrities to museum staff chose the winners of awards in each category. Kitemakers were grouped according to experience and age: kitemaker, master kitemaker, age 11 and under, age 12–15. The event also encouraged non-competitors to make and fly kites on the Washington Monument grounds.\nThe first Blossom Kite Festival took place on the Washington Monument grounds on Sunday, April 10, 2011, following a postponent from March 27 because of forecasted inclement weather.\n\nThe 2012 Blossom Kite festival took place on the Washington Monument grounds on Saturday, March 31.\n\nThe 2013 Blossom Kite Festival took place on the Washington Monument grounds on Saturday, March 30.\n\nThe 2014 Blossom Kite Festival was originally scheduled to take place on the Washington Monument grounds on Saturday, March 29. However, the event's organizers first postponed the event to Sunday, March 30, because of rain and then cancelled the Sunday event because inclement weather had saturated the Monument grounds.\n\nThe 2015 Blossom Kite Festival took place on the Washington Monument grounds on Saturday, March 28.\n\nThe 2016 kite festival took place on the Washington Monument grounds on Saturday, April 2. The organizer's announcement for the festival stated: \"Please note: drones are prohibited at this event.\"\n\nThe 2017 kite festival took place on the Washington Monument grounds on Saturday, April 1.\n\n"}
{"id": "4476440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4476440", "title": "Calendar of saints (Church of England)", "text": "Calendar of saints (Church of England)\n\nThe Church of England commemorates many of the same saints as those in the General Roman Calendar, mostly on the same days, but also commemorates various notable (often post-Reformation) Christians who have not been canonised by Rome, with a particular though not exclusive emphasis on those of English origin. There are differences in the calendars of other churches of the Anglican Communion (see Saints in Anglicanism).\n\nThe only person canonised in a near-conventional sense by the Church of England since the English Reformation is St Charles the Martyr (King Charles I), although he is not widely recognised by Anglicans as a saint outside the Society of King Charles the Martyr. The Church of England has no mechanism for canonising saints, and unlike the Roman Catholic Church it makes no claims regarding the heavenly status of those whom it commemorates in its calendar. For this reason, the Church of England avoids the use of the prenominal title \"Saint\" with reference to uncanonised individuals and is restrained in what it says about them in its liturgical texts. In order not to seem to imply grades of sanctity, or to discriminate between holy persons of the pre- and post-Reformation periods, the title \"Saint\" is not used at all in the calendar, even with reference to those who have always been known by that title, for example the Apostles.\n\nThe ninth Lambeth Conference held in 1958 clarified the commemoration of Saints and Heroes of the Christian Church in the Anglican Communion. Resolution 79 stated:\nThere is no single calendar for the various churches making up the Anglican Communion; each makes its own calendar suitable for its local situation. As a result, the calendar here contains a number of figures important in the history of the English church. Calendars in different provinces will focus on figures more important to those different countries. At the same time, different provinces often borrow important figures from each other's calendars as the international importance of different figures becomes clear. In this way the calendar of the Church of England has importance beyond the immediate purpose of supporting the liturgy of the English Church. It is, for example, one of the key sources of the calendar for the international daily office Oremus.\n\nAs there is no mention of the Patriarchs of Old on the Current Church of England Calendar, one is left to presume, theologically and liturgically, that the Patriarchs of Old are not included on All Saints' Day, 1 November (as they would be in the General Vatican II Roman Calendar), since according to the Lambeth Conference, 1958, the purpose was to devise a guide for the commemoration of Saints and Heroes applicable to the Christian Church in England.\n\nHoly Days are variously categorised as Principal Feasts, Festivals, Lesser Festivals, or Commemorations. In order to minimise problems caused by the ambivalence regarding the manner of commemoration of uncanonised persons, all such days are Lesser Festivals or Commemorations only, whose observance is optional.\n\nThe following table lists the Holy Days in the calendar of \"Common Worship\", the calendar most generally followed in the Church of England (though the calendar of the \"Book of Common Prayer\" is still authorised for use). This calendar was finalised in 2000, with some further names added in 2010. The table includes the feast date, the name of the person or persons being commemorated, their title, the nature and location of their ministry or other relevant facts, and year of death, all in the form in which they are set out in the authorised \"Common Worship\" calendar. The typography shows the level of the observance: BOLD CAPITALS denote Principal Feasts and Principal Holy Days, bold denotes Festivals, roman denotes Lesser Festivals, and \"italics\" denote Commemorations. denote observances that are unclassified.\n\n\n\n\nAlternative dates:\n\n\nAlternative dates:\n\n\n\nAlternative dates:\n\n\nAlternative dates:\n\n\nAlternative dates:\n\n\nAlternative dates:\n\n\nAlternative dates:\n\n\nAlternative dates:\n\n\n\nAlternative dates:\n\n"}
{"id": "3466370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3466370", "title": "Common assault", "text": "Common assault\n\nCommon assault was an offence under the common law of England, and has been held now to be a statutory offence in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. It is committed by a person who causes another person to apprehend the immediate use of unlawful violence by the defendant. It was thought to include battery but it does not. In England and Wales, the penalty and mode of trial for this offence is now provided section 39 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988, and it has been held that the offence should be alleged as contrary to the statute because of this. It was also held that common assault and battery are two distinct offences, so that a charge that the accused \"assaulted and battered\" another person would be bad for duplicity (the rule against charging more than one offence in a single count).\n\nSection 39 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 provides:\n\nOn 13th September 2018, the Emergency Workers (Offences) Act 2018 received Royal Assent. This added a subsection which states any common assault and/or battery on an emergency services worker is also now indictable and therefore subject to a maximum of 12 months if tried on indictment\n\nSection 39 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 does not contain a definition of the expression \"common assault\" that appears there. What the offence actually consists of must be determined by reference to case law.\n\nA person commits an assault if they perform an act (which does not for this purpose include a mere omission to act) by which they intentionally or recklessly causes another person to apprehend immediate unlawful violence.\n\nBoth in the common law and under statute, the \"actus reus\" of a common assault is committed when one person causes another to apprehend or fear that force is about to be used to cause some degree of personal contact and possible injury. There must be some quality of reasonableness to the apprehension on the part of the victim. If the physical contact is everyday social behaviour such as a handshake or friendly pat on the back, this is acceptable even though the victim may have a phobia although, if the defendant is aware of the psychological difficulty, this may be converted into an assault if the intention is to exploit the condition and embarrass the victim. More generally, if the defendant threatens injury tomorrow, the victim has the opportunity to take avoiding action. Thus, what is threatened must be capable of being carried out immediately. This would exclude a conditional threat. For example, if the defendant says that he would beat the living daylights out of you but for the presence of a police officer watching them both, the victim is supposed to understand that there is no immediate danger (\"cf.\" \"Tuberville v Savage\"'s \"If it were not assize time I would not take such language from you\"). But inequality in size can be disregarded so if a very small person threatens a very large person and it is obvious that the risk of any real injury from this attack is remote, the large person may nevertheless feel some degree of apprehension. Normally, both the one making the threat and the victim must be physically present because, otherwise, there would be no immediate danger. However, if a mobile phone is used to transmit the threat (whether orally or by SMS) and, from the words used, the victim reasonably understands that an attack is imminent, this may constitute an assault.\n\nIn \"Fagan v. Metropolitan Police Commissioner\" a police officer ordered the defendant to park his car and he reluctantly complied. In doing so, he accidentally drove the car on to the policeman’s foot and, when asked to remove the car, said \"Fuck you, you can wait\" and turned off the ignition. Because of the steel toe cap in his boot, the policeman's foot was not in actual danger, but the Divisional Court held that this could constitute an assault. Albeit accidentally, the driver had caused his car to rest on the officer's foot. This \"actus reus\" was a continuing act and the \"mens rea\" was formed during the relevant time (see concurrence). Whether realistically or not, the officer apprehended the possibility of injury so the offence was complete.\n\nIn \"R v. Ireland\", it was found that causing a person to apprehend violence can be committed by way of action or words. \"Words\" can also mean that otherwise threatening actions are rendered not capable of being an assault, as in the case of \"Tuberville v. Savage\". In that case, the plaintiff told the defendant (while putting his hand on his sword) that he would \"not\" stab him, because the circuit judge was visiting town for the local assizes. On that basis, the defendant was deemed to have known that he was not about to be injured, and it was held that no assault had been committed by the plaintiff (which would otherwise have justified the defendant's allegedly pre-emptive strike).\n\nThe \"immediacy\" requirement has been the subject of some debate. The leading case, again, is \"R v. Ireland\". Therein, the House of Lords held that the making of silent telephone calls could amount to an assault if it caused the victim to believe that physical violence might be used against him in the immediate future. One example of \"immediacy\" adopted by the House in that case was that a man who said, \"I will be at your door in a minute or two,\" might (in the circumstances where those words amounted to a threat) be guilty of an assault.\n\nSee also \"R v. Constanza\".\n\nThe \"mens rea\" is that this fear must have been caused either intentionally or recklessly. A battery is committed when the threatened force actually results in contact to the other and that contact was caused either intentionally or recklessly.\n\nSelf-defence is available when reasonable force is used to prevent harm to self or another.\nPrevention of a greater crime or with the purpose of aiding a lawful arrest is also known as The Public Defence. The Private Defence or defence of property may be also be used as an argument. \nThese arguments are not strictly defences but justifications for a certain level of force.\n\nThe original effect of sections 39 and 40 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 was that common assault was not available as an alternative verdict under section 6(3) of the Criminal Law Act 1967.\n\nCommon assault is now available as an alternative verdict under section 6(3) of the Criminal Law Act 1967, by virtue of section 6(3A) of that Act (which was inserted by section 11 of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004).\n\nIn \"DPP v. Taylor\" and \"DPP v. Little\" it was held that common assault is a statutory offence, contrary to section 39 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988. This decision was criticised and in \"Haystead v DPP\" the Divisional court expressed the \"obiter\" opinion that common assault remains a common law offence.\n\nIn England and Wales, it is a summary offence. However, where section 40 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 applies, it can be an additional charge on an indictment. It is usually tried summarily.\n\nHowever it is tried, it is punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or both.\n\nSee Crown Prosecution Service Sentencing Manual for case law on sentencing. Relevant cases are:\n\nIn England and Wales, section 29(1)(c) of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 (c.37) creates the distinct offence of racially or religiously aggravated common assault.\n\nThis is the least serious assault. It is not at all uncommon for more serious assault charges to be reduced to common assault in \"plea-bargaining\" by prosecutors to avoid the additional expense of a Crown Court trial should the defendant elect for same. In real terms, the degree of fear or the level of injury required for a conviction can be unproven. No injury is required to prove battery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4192369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4192369", "title": "Convergence center", "text": "Convergence center\n\nA convergence center is a central place for information and meeting to serve participants during large and manifold protest or other alternative activities at summits. \n\nThey started to be used in the 1990s as a logistic tool to solve communication problems among the large number of people present at varying activities at European Union summits, sometimes also including living quarters.\n\n"}
{"id": "21131469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21131469", "title": "Dance party", "text": "Dance party\n\nA dance party (also referred to as a dance) is a social gathering where dancing is the primary activity. Some dance parties are held in a casual setting and open to the public, such as a rave, or those held in nightclubs and discothèques. \n\nOther types of dance parties may be a formal or semi-formal private event which often require guests to don formal wear and have an invitation or membership within the community hosting the event, such as school dances and cotillions. \n\nGuests of formal dances often attend in pairs, as consorts or \"dates\" for one another. The term \"stag\" refers to going without a consort to a dance organized for couples. Dances commonly take place during the evening, although some are held earlier during the daytime; such events are known as tea dances.\n\nCasual dances are dances that do not have a formal dress requirement; these may include school and community events, raves, evening entertainments provided for guests aboard a cruise ship, and events organized for certain holidays, such as Halloween and Mardis Gras.\nA school dance is a dance sponsored by a school, and may be casual or formal. Casual school dances were originally limited to Western countries, although schools in other countries are beginning to adopt such events. There are some schools, such as Arlington High School in Arlington, Massachusetts, that prohibit school-hosted dances, citing sex and alcohol problems.\n\nOne of the most significant school dances is prom, a relatively formal event normally reserved for Junior grade and Senior grade students. Some schools host a winter formal, a similar event, for the lower grades. In the 1950s, informal school dances in the United States were often called sock hops. The traditional Sadie Hawkins dance may be formal or semi-formal.\n\nOne type of formal dance, known as a ball, is a dance event where guests dress formally. In Western culture, a male may don white tie and a female may don a ball gown. Dinner dances are formal dances where dinner is served. Often, the style of music played at a ball is most suited to ballroom dancing.\n\nIn Australia, dance parties are popular amongst teenagers, to the point that many dance parties are held specifically for teenagers in nightclubs or other locations which allow underage guests, who are usually unable to attend such places due to local laws.\n\nDance parties are usually held at night, and may be hosted in private homes, bars, gymnasiums, nightclubs, community centers, ballrooms, or other large open spaces suitable for use as a dance floor by many people simultaneously.\n\nThe music at dance parties is usually played through a PA system or a more powerful sound system, and is often supplied by a DJ who selects and plays pre-recorded songs from vinyl records, compact discs or with a laptop; however, some dance parties feature live instrumentalists or musicians playing their music live on an instrument, or with a laptop. Raves and other large, modern dance parties use visual and lighting effects, such as strobe lighting and smoke machines.\n\nIn the Jewish community, Bar and Bat Mitzvah celebrations often involve dances.\n\nDances are common for Quinceañeras, sweet sixteen parties and débutante celebrations. Some of these coming of age events involve a father-daughter dance.\n\nAt wedding receptions, the newlywed couple may opt to have a first dance (before all guests are invited to participate on the dance floor).\n\nA dance party that is gaining popularity is the Bollywood dance party, featuring music from Hindi cinema from India. A popular dance party that demonstrates this style of music and dance combination is produced by Wicked Karma that is produced by Christie Lo and DJ RDX \n\nNurai, a nightclub in Beirut hosted a party event on the 28th August 2017 and by August 30th 2017 it broke the Guinness World Record for hosting a 56-hour long party to show that it is the best party city in the world!\n\nSome dance events may put an emphasis on certain genres of dance. For example, an event may feature swing or square dancing rather than dancing in general. A masked ball is a type of costume party that features dancing. Dance parties at which people mainly dance Tango are called Milongas.\n\n"}
{"id": "40712897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40712897", "title": "Dark web", "text": "Dark web\n\nThe dark web is the World Wide Web content that exists on darknets, overlay networks that use the Internet but require specific software, configurations, or authorization to access. The dark web forms a small part of the deep web, the part of the Web not indexed by web search engines, although sometimes the term \"deep web\" is mistakenly used to refer specifically to the dark web.\n\nThe darknets which constitute the dark web include small, friend-to-friend peer-to-peer networks, as well as large, popular networks like Tor, Freenet, I2P, and Riffle operated by public organizations and individuals. Users of the dark web refer to the regular web as Clearnet due to its unencrypted nature. The Tor dark web may be referred to as onionland, a reference to the network's top-level domain suffix .onion and the traffic anonymization technique of onion routing.\n\nThe dark web has often been confused with the deep web, which refer to the parts of the web not indexed (searchable) by search engines. This confusion dates back to at least 2009. Since then, especially in reporting on Silk Road, the two terms have often been conflated, despite recommendations that they should be distinguished.\n\nDarknet websites are accessible only through networks such as Tor (\"The Onion Routing\" project) and I2P (\"Invisible Internet Project\"). Tor browser and Tor-accessible sites are widely used among the darknet users and can be identified by the domain \".onion\". While Tor focuses on providing anonymous access to the Internet, I2P specializes on allowing anonymous hosting of websites. Identities and locations of darknet users stay anonymous and cannot be tracked due to the layered encryption system. The darknet encryption technology routes users' data through a large number of intermediate servers, which protects the users' identity and guarantees anonymity. The transmitted information can be decrypted only by a subsequent node in the scheme, which leads to the exit node. The complicated system makes it almost impossible to reproduce the node path and decrypt the information layer by layer. Due to the high level of encryption, websites are not able to track geolocation and IP of their users, and users are not able to get this information about the host. Thus, communication between darknet users is highly encrypted allowing users to talk, blog, and share files confidentially.\n\nThe darknet is also used for illegal activity such as illegal trade, forums, and media exchange for pedophiles and terrorists. At the same time traditional websites have created alternative accessibility for the Tor browser in efforts to connect with their users. ProPublica, for example, launched a new version of its website available exclusively to Tor users.\n\nA December 2014 study by Gareth Owen from the University of Portsmouth found that the most commonly hosted type of content on Tor was child pornography, followed by black markets, while the individual sites with the highest traffic were dedicated to botnet operations (see attached metric). Many whistleblowing sites maintain a presence as well as political discussion forums. Sites associated with Bitcoin, fraud related services and mail order services are some of the most prolific. To counter the trend of controversial content, the artist collective Cybertwee held a bake sale on an onion site.\n\nIn July 2017, Roger Dingledine, one of the three founders of the Tor Project, said that Facebook is the biggest hidden service. The Dark Web comprises only 3% of the traffic in the Tor network.\n\nA more recent February 2016 study from researchers at King's College London gives the following breakdown of content by an alternative category set, highlighting the illicit use of .onion services.\n\nBotnets are often structured with their command and control servers based on a censorship-resistant hidden service, creating a large amount of bot-related traffic.\n\nBitcoin services such as tumblers are often available on Tor, and some – such as Grams – offer darknet market integration. A research study undertaken by Jean-Loup Richet, a research fellow at ESSEC, and carried out with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, highlighted new trends in the use of Bitcoin tumblers for money laundering purposes. A common approach was to use a digital currency exchanger service which converted Bitcoin into an online game currency (such as gold coins in World of Warcraft) that will later be converted back into money.\n\nCommercial darknet markets, which mediate transactions for illegal drugs and other goods, attracted significant media coverage starting with the popularity of Silk Road and Diabolus Market and its subsequent seizure by legal authorities. Other markets sell software exploits and weapons. Examination of price differences in Dark web markets versus prices in real life or over the World Wide Web have been attempted as well as studies in the quality of goods received over the Dark web. One such study was performed on Evolution, one of the most popular crypto-markets active from January 2013 to March 2015. Although it found the digital information, such as concealment methods and shipping country, \"seems accurate\", the study uncovered issues with the quality of illegal drugs sold in Evolution, stating that, \"... the illicit drugs purity is found to be different from the information indicated on their respective listings.\" Less is known about consumer motivations for accessing these marketplaces and factors associated with their use.\n\nMany hackers sell their services either individually or as a part of groups. Such groups include xDedic, hackforum, Trojanforge, Mazafaka, dark0de and the TheRealDeal darknet market. Some have been known to track and extort apparent pedophiles. Cyber crimes and hacking services for financial institutions and banks have also been offered over the Dark web. Attempts to monitor this activity have been made through various government and private organizations, and an examination of the tools used can be found in the Procedia Computer Science journal. Use of Internet-scale DNS Distributed Reflection Denial of Service (DRDoS) attacks have also been made through leveraging the Dark Web. There are many scam .onion sites also present which end up giving tools for download that are infected with trojan horses or backdoors.\n\nThere are numerous carding forums, PayPal and Bitcoin trading websites as well as fraud and counterfeiting services. Many such sites are scams themselves.\n\nThere are reports of crowdfunded assassinations and hitmen for hire, however, these are believed to be exclusively scams. The creator of Silk Road, Ross Ulbricht, was arrested by Homeland Security investigations (HSI) for his site and allegedly hiring a hitman to kill six people, although the charges were later dropped.\n\nThere is an urban legend that one can find live murder on the dark web. The term \"Red Room\" has been coined based on the Japanese animation and urban legend of the same name. However, the evidence points toward all reported instances being hoaxes.\n\nOn June 25, 2015, the indie game \"Sad Satan\" was reviewed by Youtubers \"Obscure Horror Corner\" which they claimed to have found via the dark web. Various inconsistencies in the channel's reporting cast doubt on the reported version of events. There are several websites which analyze and monitor the deep web and dark web for threat intelligence, for example Sixgill.\n\nPhishing via cloned websites and other scam sites are numerous, with darknet markets often advertised with fraudulent URLs.\n\nPuzzles such as Cicada 3301 and successors will sometimes use hidden services in order to more anonymously provide clues, often increasing speculation as to the identity of their creators.\n\nThere is regular law enforcement action against sites distributing child pornography – often via compromising the site by distributing malware to the users. Sites use complex systems of guides, forums and community regulation. Other content includes sexualised torture and killing of animals and revenge porn.\n\nThere are at least some real and fraudulent websites claiming to be used by ISIL (ISIS), including a fake one seized in Operation Onymous. In the wake of the November 2015 Paris attacks an actual such site was hacked by an Anonymous affiliated hacker group GhostSec and replaced with an advert for Prozac. The Rawti Shax Islamist group was found to be operating on the dark web at one time.\n\nWithin the dark web, there exist emerging social media platforms similar to those on the World Wide Web. Facebook and other traditional social media platforms have begun to make dark-web versions of their websites to address problems associated with the traditional platforms and to continue their service in all areas of the World Wide Web.\n\nAlthough much of the dark web is innocuous, some prosecutors and government agencies, among others, are concerned that it is a haven for criminal activity. Specialist news sites such as DeepDotWeb and All Things Vice provide news coverage and practical information about dark web sites and services. The Hidden Wiki and its mirrors and forks hold some of the largest directories of content at any given time.\n\nPopular sources of dark web .onion links include Pastebin, YouTube, Twitter, Reddit and other Internet forums. Specialist companies with Darksum and Recorded Future track dark web cybercrime goings on for law enforcement purposes. In 2015 it was announced that Interpol now offers a dedicated dark web training program featuring technical information on Tor, cybersecurity and simulated darknet market take downs.\n\nIn October 2013 the UK's National Crime Agency and GCHQ announced the formation of a 'Joint Operations Cell' to focus on cybercrime. In November 2015 this team would be tasked with tackling child exploitation on the dark web as well as other cybercrime.\n\nIn March 2017 the Congressional Research Service released an extensive report on the dark web, noting the changing dynamic of how information is accessed and presented on it; characterized by the unknown, it is of increasing interest to researchers, law enforcement, and policymakers.\n\nIn August 2017, according to reportage, cybersecurity firms which specialize in monitoring and researching the dark web on behalf of banks and retailers routinely share their findings with the FBI and with other law enforcement agencies \"when possible and necessary\" regarding illegal content. The Russian-speaking underground offering a crime-as-a-service model is regarded as being particularly robust.\n\nMany individual journalists, alternative news organizations, educators, and researchers are influential in their writing and speaking of the Darknet, and making its use clear to the general public.\n\nJamie Bartlett is a journalist and tech blogger for \"The Telegraph\" and Director of the Centre for the Analysis of Social Media for Demos in conjunction with The University of Sussex. In his book, \"The Dark Net\", Barlett depicts the world of the Darknet and its implications for human behavior in different context. For example, the book opens with the story of a young girl who seeks positive feedback to build her self-esteem by appearing naked online. She is eventually traced on social media sites where her friends and family were inundated with naked pictures of her. This story highlights the variety of human interactions the Darknet allows for, but also reminds the reader how participation in a overlay network like the Darknet is rarely in complete separation from the larger Web. Bartlett's main objective is an exploration of the Darknet and its implication for society. He explores different sub-cultures, some with positive implications for society and some with negative.\n\nBartlett gave a TEDTalk in June 2015 further examining the subject. His talk, entitled \"How the mysterious Darknet is going mainstream\", introduces the idea behind the Darknet to the audience, followed by a walkthrough example of one of its websites called the Silk Road. He points out the familiarity of webpage design similar to consumer sites used in the larger commercial Web. Bartlett then presents examples of how operating in an uncertain, high-risk market like those in the Darknet actually breeds innovation that he believes can be applied to all markets in the future. As he points out, because vendors are always thinking of new ways to get around and protect themselves, the Darknet has become more decentralized, more customer friendly, harder to censor, and more innovative. As our societies are increasingly searching for more ways to retain privacy online, such changes as those occurring in the Darknet are not only innovative, but could be beneficial to commercial online websites and markets.\n\nTraditional media and news channels like ABC News have also featured articles examining the Darknet. \"Vanity Fair\" magazine published an article in October 2016 entitled \"The Other Internet\". The article discusses the rise of the Dark Net and mentions that the stakes have become high in a lawless digital wilderness. It mentions that vulnerability is a weakness in a network's defenses. Other topics include the e-commerce versions of conventional black markets, cyberweaponry from TheRealDeal, and role of operations security.\n\n"}
{"id": "881762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=881762", "title": "Edinburgh International Festival", "text": "Edinburgh International Festival\n\nThe Edinburgh International Festival is an annual festival of performing arts in Edinburgh, Scotland, over three weeks in August. By invitation from the Festival Director, the International Festival brings top class performers of music (especially classical music), theatre, opera and dance from around the world to perform. The festival also hosts a series of visual art exhibitions, talks and workshops.\n\nThe idea of a Festival with a remit to \"provide a platform for the flowering of the human spirit\" and enrich the cultural life of Scotland, Britain and Europe took form in the wake of the Second World War. The idea of creating an international festival within the UK was first conceived by Rudolf Bing, the General Manager of Glyndebourne Opera Festival, and Audrey Mildmay (wife of John Christie) during a wartime tour of a small-scale Glyndebourne production of \"The Beggar's Opera\".\n\nRudolf Bing co-founded the Festival with Henry Harvey Wood, Head of the British Council in Scotland, Sidney Newman, Reid Professor of Music at Edinburgh University, and a group of civic leaders from the City of Edinburgh, in particular Sir John Falconer.\n\nBing had looked at several English cities before shifting his focus to Scotland and settling on Edinburgh, a city he had visited and admired in 1939. Harvey Wood described the meeting at which the idea was hatched:\n\nThe Edinburgh International Music of Festival and Drama was first discussed over a lunch table in a restaurant in Hanover Square, London, towards the end of 1944. Rudolf Bing, convinced that musical and operatic festivals on anything like the pre-war scale were unlikely to be held in any of the shattered and impoverished centres for many years to come, was anxious to consider and investigate the possibility of staging such a Festival somewhere in the United Kingdom in the summer of 1946. He was convinced and he convinced my colleagues and myself that such an enterprise, successfully conducted, might at this moment of European time, be of more than temporary significance and might establish in Britain a centre of world resort for lovers of music, drama, opera, ballet and the graphic arts.\nCertain preconditions were obviously required of such a centre. It should be a town of reasonable size, capable of absorbing and entertaining anything between 50,000 and 150,000 visitors over a period of three weeks to a month. It should, like Salzburg, have considerable scenic and picturesque appeal and it should be set in a country likely to be attractive to tourists and foreign visitors. It should have sufficient number of theatres, concert halls and open spaces for the adequate staging of a programme of an ambitious and varied character. Above all it should be a city likely to embrace the opportunity and willing to make the festival a major preoccupation not only in the City Chambers but in the heart and home of every citizen, however modest. Greatly daring but not without confidence I recommended Edinburgh as the centre and promised to make preliminary investigations.\n\nWood approached Falconer, who enthusiastically welcomed the initiative on behalf of the city. As it was too late to finalise arrangements for 1946, plans were made for the following year. The first International Festival (and the first \"Festival Fringe\", although not known as such in the first year) took place between 22 August and 11 September 1947. The Festival has since taken place every August.\n\nThe first Festival concentrated mainly on classical music, a highlight being concerts given by the Vienna Philharmonic, reunited with their erstwhile conductor Bruno Walter who had left Europe after the Nazi occupation of his homeland. The Festival's first dramatic success came in the following year when an adaptation of Sir David Lyndsay's \"The Thrie Estaites\" was performed to great acclaim for the first time since 1552 in the Assembly Hall on the Mound. The British Army's desire to showcase itself during the Festival period led to the independent staging of the first Edinburgh Military Tattoo, featuring displays of piping and dancing, in 1950. This annual event has come to be regarded as an integral part of the official festival, though it continues to be organised separately.\n\nIn 1999, the Festival opened a new central box office and information centre in The Hub, a converted church on Castlehill, directly below Edinburgh Castle. Originally built as the Tolbooth Church (1842-44) to house the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, its tall gothic spire is the highest point in central Edinburgh (outside of the Castle) and a landmark visible for miles around.\n\nThe Edinburgh International Festival was brought forward to coincide with the Fringe in 2015.\n\nThe principal venues of the Festival are:\n\n\nAbout ten other festivals are held in Edinburgh at about the same time as the International Festival. Collectively, the entire group is referred to as the Edinburgh Festival. Most notable of these is the Edinburgh Fringe, which started as an offshoot of the International Festival and has since grown to be the world's largest arts festival.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "18885286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18885286", "title": "Fèis Bharraigh", "text": "Fèis Bharraigh\n\nFèis Bharraigh is an annual Gaelic arts and culture event, held on Barra. The first event was held in 1981. Events continue to promote, encourage, foster and develop the practice and study of the Scottish Gaelic language, literature, music, drama and culture on the islands of Barra and Vatersay.\n\nThe Fèis movement came about when a group of parents and other individuals on the Isle of Barra became concerned that local traditions were dying out and that island children were not being taught traditional music in the context of formal education. This first Fèis, which means \"festival\" in Gaelic, laid down the path for many more Fèisean, inspired by the success of the first Fèis, to spring up around Scotland with each one community led and tailored to local needs. By 2007, there were 40 Fèisean held across Scotland.\n\nIn 2007, Fèis Bharraigh launched \"BarraFest - Live @ the Edge\", a weekend festival of traditional and modern Scottish music held on the Tangasdale machair. BarraFest 2008 was held on 25–26 July.\n\n"}
{"id": "21422831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21422831", "title": "Great Recession in Asia", "text": "Great Recession in Asia\n\nWhile beginning in the United States, the Great Recession spread to Asia rapidly and has affected much of the region.\n\nIn China, the International Monetary Fund predicts GDP growth for 2008 will be 9.7% and drop to 8.5% in 2009. A struggle was underway to see who would swallow the losses on US Agencies and Treasuries. On November 9, 2008 China announced a package of capital spending plus income and consumption support measures. Four trillion yuan ($586 billion) will be spent on upgrading infrastructure, particularly roads, railways, airports and the power grid; on raising rural incomes via land reform; and on social welfare projects such as affordable housing and environmental protection. So far at least 670,000 small and medium-size enterprises have been closed; leaving mainly the large-size enterprises (which may or may not contain companies who have outsourced their workplaces away from the United States - leaving at least five million people there unemployed).\n\nThe Hong Kong economy officially slid into recession in the final quarter of 2008. The economy is predicted to grow at 2 percent in 2009. Hong Kong is an advanced tertiary economy built on services, retail, tourism, transport and financial industries. Hong Kong's manufacturing industry is located in Guangdong province which employs over 11 million people. The Hang Seng Index has lost over 60 percent of its value, property market lost over 40 percent in value and unemployment is at a record high of 4.8 percent.\n\nTaiwan announced billions of dollars in spending and tax cuts due to declining growth and a 26 percent slump in the stock market in 2008. The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers raised concerns about global exposure to the assets and stock of Lehman Brothers and the potential for the bankruptcy to cause further tightening of credit. Taiwan, despite reporting few losses from the subprime mortgage crisis, was said to have Lehman-related exposure for its companies and retail investors totaling $2.5 billion. To increase purchasing power, the ROC government has issued the ROC consumer voucher.\n\nIn Japan exports in June declined for the first time in about five years falling by 1.7 percent. Exports to the United States and European Union fell 15.4 percent and 11.2 percent respectively. The decline in exports and increase in imports cut Japan's trade surplus $1.28 billion a decline of 90 percent from the previous year. An economist at the Royal Bank of Scotland said the decline means the Japanese economy most likely declined in the second quarter. Taro Aso, secretary-general of Japan's Liberal Democratic Party, said he believes Japan had entered a recession.\n\nJapan's economy declined by 0.6 percent in the second quarter of 2008. This was later revised to a decline of 0.7 percent. Japanese exports grew 0.3 percent in August 2008 compared to a year before down from 8 percent the previous month. Exports to the U.S. fell 21.8 percent, the biggest decline on record, and exports to Europe fell 3.5 percent. Two Japanese banks appeared on the list of major Lehman creditors. On November 17, the Japanese Economy Minister announced that the nation was officially in a recession.\n\nBy September 2008, the crisis threatening the GSEs (US mortgage lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) began to have consequences in Asia. The foreign exchange reserves of South Korea's central bank contained many depreciating \"Agency bonds\" from the GSEs, threatening a currency crisis and leading to depreciation of the South Korean won against the US dollar and other major currencies. Samsung Electronics has been reported to be posting a decrease in sales for the first time since the 1997 Asian financial crisis that home appliances saw a decrease in the domestic market of up to 20 percent since mid-June compared to the previous year. Domestic auto sales also saw a decrease in the second quarter. Auto exports also posted a loss and exports of home appliances were also reported to be in decline.\n\nIn January 2009, Malaysia has banned the hiring of foreign workers in factories, stores and restaurants to protect its citizens from mass unemployment amid the global economic crisis.\n\nIt was announced that some foreign companies would fire workforce in Malaysia. In 2009 GDP contracted 1.7%.\n\nUnlike the other economies in the region, The Philippines was the only one of a mere handful of countries in the whole world to have recorded a positive economic growth in 2009 and averted the effects of economic recession. However, it did not mean that the country experienced no effect of the ongoing world financial crisis. The economy was based on the remittances of the Overseas Filipino Workers, most of them working in affected countries like the United States.\n\nBooming and then Decreasing oil prices will affect Persian gulf countries.\n\nReal estate prices in Dubai have decreased substantially.\n\nLebanon is one of the only seven countries in the world to have scored profits in 2008. Given the regular security turmoil it has faced in the past, its banks have adopted a conservative approach. The strict regulations imposed by the central bank were crafted to make the Lebanese economy immune to political crisis; and so far, this has applied to the global economic crisis as well. The Lebanese banks remain, under the current circumstances, high on liquidity and reputed for their security.\n\nMoody's has recently shifted Lebanon's sovereign rankings from stable to positive acknowledging its financial security. Moreover, with a Beirut stock market increase of 51%, the index provider MSCI, ranked Lebanon as the world's best performer in 2008. Analysts are, nonetheless, skeptic about the future indirect effects of the crisis, but so far, the direct consequences have proved to be positive.\n\nBangladesh economy is not affected by the global recession. Bangladesh's economic growth and exports remain quite strong.\n\nIndia's economy benefited from recent high economic growth which declined greatly due to the global economic crisis. Economic growth in India during FY2008-09 stood at 6.7%. The global crisis had less impact of India because exports account for only 15% of India's GDP, less than half the levels of major Asian economic powers such as China and Japan. However, unlike other major Asian economies, India's government finances were in poor shape and as a consequence, it was not able to enact large-scale economic stimulus packages. Despite this, from June 2008 to June 2009, industrial production in India grew by 7.1%.\n\nThough he ended up being wrong, the former Indian Finance Minister P. Chidambaram once boasted that he expected India's economy to \"bounce back\" to 9% during FY2009. India's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said that the government will take measures to ensure that the economic growth bounces back to 9%. The Asian Development Bank predicted India to recover from weakening momentum in 4-6 quarters. At the G20 Summit, India called for coordinated global fiscal stimulus to mitigate the severity of the global credit crunch. India said that it would inject US$4.5 billion into the financial system to help exporters.\n\nSome analysts pointed that India's growing trade with other Asian countries, especially China, will help reduce the negative impact of the crisis. Analysts also said that India's high domestic demand and large infrastructure projects will act as a buffer reducing the impact of the global downturn on its economy. Economists argued that India's financial system is relatively insulated and its banks do not have significant exposure to subprime mortgage. In an editorial, the \"New York Times\" praised the strong regulations placed on the Indian banking system by the Reserve Bank of India.\n\nIn May 2009, India reported an economic growth rate of 5.8%, beating most forecasts. In second quarter of 2009 the Indian economy grew by 7.9% and gave indications that the Indian economy would scale a growth rate of 7% or above in 2009 and 8-9% in 2010. In the 3rd Quarter of 2010, the economy had bounced back with a growth rate of 8.8%.\n\nIn Pakistan the central bank's foreign currency reserves, when counting forward liabilities is said to only amount to as little as $3 billion, sufficient for a single month of imports. Corruption and mismanagement have combined with high oil prices to damage Pakistan's economy. Pakistan's rupee has lost more than 21 per cent of its value in 2008 and inflation is at 25 per cent. The government has failed to defer payments for Saudi oil or raise favorable loans. President Asif Ali Zardari claimed Pakistan needed a bailout worth $100 billion which he was expected to ask for at a meeting in Abu Dhabi in November. Ratings agency Standard and Poor's rates Pakistan's sovereign debt at CCC +, only a few ratings above the default level, warning the country may be unable to cover about $3 billion in upcoming debt payments.\n\nThis led a change in economic managers, and politically elected finance minister Naveed Qamar was replaced by a financial advisor, Shaukat Tareen, a former banker belonging to Citigroup on October 8, 2008. The new finance advisor led the Pakistani delegation to IMF-World Bank meeting in USA with a hope to obtain a loan from the World Bank which has been stopped now due to reservations from IMF on World Bank for releasing this nature of Loan to any country.\nthe situation in the Pakistan is seems to be revealed to progress. as in the budget for 2013-2014 taxes has been implemented to recover the income of the government through masses.\n\nSri Lanka too is affected with the global recession, as the demand for their major products such as garments, tea, rubber, coconut based products and agricultural products are at a downturn. At the moment, tea is severely affected and the country is experiencing 35% drop in the exports presently. Also, the tourist industry has downsized; last year, there was a 7% downsize to the industry, primarily due to the loss of European tourists.\n\n"}
{"id": "25197550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25197550", "title": "Hong Kong Fashion Week for Fall/Winter", "text": "Hong Kong Fashion Week for Fall/Winter\n\nHong Kong Fashion Week for Fall/Winter is the second largest fair of its kind in the world, and the largest in Asia organized by the Hong Kong Trade Development Council (HKTDC). It is held at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre in January every year. The fair has been drawing buyers in big numbers for more than 40 years. In 2009, the fair featured over 1,400 exhibitors from 23 countries and regions, offering strong connections for great business opportunities and deals. It is organized by product sector to give buyers easy access to the products that suit their business, highlights include: Intimate Wear Zone, World of Fashion Accessories, Emporium de Mode, Infant & Children’s Wear, Bridal & Evening Wear, Garment Mart, Fashion Gallery, Fabrics & Yarn as well as Sewing Supplies. Hong Kong Fashion Week for Fall/Winter 2018, attracted some 1400 exhibitors from 13 countries and regions, was held from 15-18 January 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "28561793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28561793", "title": "International Exposition of Electricity", "text": "International Exposition of Electricity\n\nThe first International Exposition of Electricity in Paris ran from August 15, 1881 through to November 15, 1881 at the Palais de l'Industrie on the Champs-Élysées. It served to display the advances in electrical technology since the small electrical display at the 1878 Universal Exposition. Exhibitors came from the United Kingdom, United States, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands, as well as from France. As part of the exhibition, the first International Congress of Electricians presented numerous scientific and technical papers, including definitions of the standard practical units volt, ohm and ampere.\n\nAdolphe Cochery, Minister of Posts and Telegraphs of the time, had initially suggested that an international exposition should be held.\n\nThis show was a great stir. The public could admire the dynamo of Zénobe Gramme, the incandescent light, the Théâtrophone, the electric tramway of Werner von Siemens, the telephone of Alexander Graham Bell, an electrical distribution network by Marcel Deprez, and an electric boat by Gustave Trouvé. As part of the exhibition, the first International Congress of Electricians, which met in the halls of the Palais du Trocadero, presented numerous scientific and technical papers, including definitions of the standard practical units volt, ohm and ampere, the International System of Electrical and Magnetic Units.\n\nGeorge Berger was the Commissioner General. Aside from the provision of the building by the French government, the exhibition was privately financed. Organizers would donate profits to scientific works in the public interest.\n\nThis congress was a decisive step in the building of the modern International System of Units (SI), since ohm, ampere, coulomb and farad were defined at this occasion. Main participants include Éleuthère Mascart, William Thomson (who later became Lord Kelvin), Hermann von Helmholtz, Rudolf Clausius, Gustav Kirchhoff, Gustav Heinrich Wiedemann, Carl Wilhelm Siemens and his brother the industrialist Werner von Siemens, who had to renounce to the siemens mercury as the resistance unit (not to be confused with siemens, current SI unit of conductance).\n\nAmong the exhibits were:\n\n\nElectric lighting with incandescent lamps was one of key developments on display at the exposition, with up to 2500 lamps used to light the venue. The lamps of Thomas Edison, St. George Lane-Fox, Hiram Maxim, and Joseph Swan were compared in extensive tests by a committee, including exposition juror William Crookes, to establish the most efficient lamp design. The conclusion was the high resistance Edison lamp was the most efficient, followed by the Lane-Fox, Swan, and Maxim lamps.\n\n"}
{"id": "6959652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6959652", "title": "International Poetry Festival of Rosario", "text": "International Poetry Festival of Rosario\n\nThe International Poetry Festival of Rosario (in Spanish, Festival Internacional de Poesía de Rosario) is a cultural event organized in Rosario, Argentina. It gathers public and poets from Argentina and other countries, especially Latin American ones, and includes poetry readings, workshops, lectures, and stage plays.\n\nThe Festival is held annually since 1993. It usually takes place in September at the facilities of the Bernardino Rivadavia Culture Center, at Plaza Montenegro, in downtown Rosario. It is organized jointly by the Santa Fe Province Culture Subsecretariat and the Education and Culture Secretariat of the Municipality of Rosario, and is supported by the national Culture Secretariat.\n\n"}
{"id": "42966552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42966552", "title": "JunaCon", "text": "JunaCon\n\nJunaCon is an annual board game convention held in Turku, Finland since 2010. It is usually held in late winter or early spring. The convention concentrates on railroad-themed board games, such as \"18XX\", \"Ticket to Ride\" and \"TransAmerica/TransEuropa\". The convention's name comes from the Finnish language word \"juna\" (\"train\") and \"-con\", short for \"convention\". The convention also hosts the annual \"Ticket to Ride\" Finnish championship, the winner of which is eligible for the \"Ticket to Ride\" official world championship in Paris, France later in the year.\n\n"}
{"id": "46441942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46441942", "title": "Killer Legends", "text": "Killer Legends\n\nKiller Legends is a 2014 American documentary written and directed by Joshua Zeman for Chiller. Zeman and Rachel Mills, a researcher, investigate the real-life origins of several urban legends.\n\nJoshua Zeman and Rachel Mills investigate the origins of several urban legends:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAfter directing \"Cropsey\", a documentary that examines the similarities between a New York urban legend and a real-life kidnapper, Zeman approached Chiller with the idea of a series based on the intersection of urban legends and true crime. For business reasons, the series was retooled into an anthology TV film. Clowns were not initially planned to be a subject covered in the documentary, but Mills uncovered a large amount of information on them. Upon bringing this to Zeman's attention, he agreed to expand the documentary to include them.\n\n\"Killer Legends\" played for one night at the Nitehawk Cinema in Brooklyn, New York on March 13, 2014. Chiller aired it on March 16, 2014. Breaking Glass Pictures released the DVD on July 1, 2014. It was one of the top ten best-selling independent film on iTunes in July 2014.\n\nPatrick Cooper of Bloody Disgusting rated it 4/5 stars and called it \"a wholly fascinating experience on a lot of levels\", though he criticized it for focusing so much on the filmmakers. Brutal as Hell wrote, \"Overall what we have here is a very thoughtful and interesting documentary. It will entertain you, creep you out and you will probably learn some history along the way.\" Michel Sabourin of HorrorTalk rated it 4.5/5 stars and praised the atmosphere and pacing. Horror Society rated it 4/5 stars and called it \"insightful and well put together\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2004428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004428", "title": "List of dogwood festivals", "text": "List of dogwood festivals\n\nSeveral U.S. cities and towns hold dogwood festivals. These are usually annual events coinciding with the blooming of dogwood trees in the spring:\n\n"}
{"id": "9704199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9704199", "title": "List of harvest festivals", "text": "List of harvest festivals\n\nThis is a list of harvest festivals around the world. A harvest festival is an annual celebration which occurs around the time of the main harvest of a given region. Given regional differences in climates and crops, harvest festivals can be found at various times throughout the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29320267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29320267", "title": "List of hydroelectric power station failures", "text": "List of hydroelectric power station failures\n\nThis is a list of major hydroelectric power station failures due to damage to a hydroelectric power station or its connections. Every generating station trips from time to time due to minor defects and can usually be restarted when the defect has been remedied. Various protections are built into the stations to cause shutdown before major damage is caused. Some hydroelectric power station failures may go beyond the immediate loss of generation capacity, including destruction of the turbine itself, reservoir breach and significant destruction of national grid infrastructure downstream. These can take years to remedy in some cases.\n\nWhere a generating station is large compared to the connected grid capacity, any failure can cause extensive disruption with in the network. A serious failure in a proportionally large hydroelectric generating station or its associated transmission line will remove a large block of power from the grid that may lead to widespread disturbances.\n\nNot listed here but need to be added: \n\n"}
{"id": "34188816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34188816", "title": "List of man-made mass poisoning incidents", "text": "List of man-made mass poisoning incidents\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45400532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45400532", "title": "Ndaakoya festival", "text": "Ndaakoya festival\n\nNdaakoya is a festival celebrated by the Frafra, Talensi, and Nabdan speaking communities in the Upper East Region Of Ghana. It is usually celebrated in the early months of every new year (January and February) to thank God for a successful harvest during the farming season.\n\nThe word Ndaakoya comes from two Frafra words: Ndaa meaning \"during that time\" or \"days\", and Koya meaning \"I have farmed\" or \"farming\". And so it follows that the word Ndaakoya means \"during that time I farmed\". The Ndaakoya festival is the main festival celebrated by the Frafra, Talensi and the Nabdan communities in the Upper East Region. Together, these groups of people form the majority of the population of the region. The celebration of the festival is an inherited ritual performed by these tribes to appease the gods of their land by thanking them for a good harvest. Their forefathers believed that good yields during harvest, the provision of rain, sunshine and other factors necessary for stimulating good harvest was the handiwork of the gods they served and hence needed to thank the gods for a wonderful harvest.\n\nIt is a peaceful celebration which also sought to foster unity among the people. Its celebration always sees different people, from all corners of the region, trooping in to witness the wonderful displays of culture, music and dance. Even though the festival is celebrated every year by the Bolga Chief (known as Bolga Naaba), every household is expected to celebrate this festival annually in their own way for the same purpose. Apart from the display of music and dance that takes place during the celebration of the festival, libation is poured, food prepared and drinks served for merry-making. Influential people are also invited from all areas of the region and other regions to come and observe the celebration of the festival. Pito the popular \"local beer\" of the region is commonly served during the celebration. This is prepared using part of the gains made during harvest. It is prepared using guinea corn or what has become known as \"red millet\". This is brought by individuals from their homes as a token for appeasing the gods.\n"}
{"id": "26576582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26576582", "title": "Nick Piantanida", "text": "Nick Piantanida\n\nNicholas John \"Nick\" Piantanida (August 15, 1932 – August 29, 1966) was an American amateur parachute jumper who reached 123,500 feet (37,642 meters, 23.39 miles) with his \"Strato Jump II\" balloon on February 2, 1966, flying a manned balloon higher than anyone before, a record that stood until Felix Baumgartner's flight on October 14, 2012.\n\nPiantanida was born August 15, 1932, and grew up in Union City, New Jersey. He had a younger brother, Vern. When Piantanida was 10 years old, he experimented with homemade parachutes, harnessing a stray neighborhood cat to one in a test drop off the five-story apartment building where they lived. When a neighbor informed Piantanida's parents of this, Piantanida tested the next parachute himself, jumping off a lower roof and breaking his arm. As he grew older, he took up skydiving with a \"dogged determination\", according to his brother.\n\nAs a young man, Piantanida played basketball in East Coast leagues. After high school, he joined the U.S. Army Reserve and shortly thereafter, the U.S. Army for two years, where he earned the rank of corporal.\n\nAfter his military service, Piantanida and his climbing partner, Walt Tomashoff, became the first people to climb a route on the north side of Auyantepui, the plateau in Venezuela from which Angel Falls drops from a cleft near the summit. For this accomplishment he was interviewed on the \"Today Show\".\n\nAfter his return to the United States, Piantanida worked in an embroidery factory, played basketball at various colleges, and worked as an ironworker on the Verrazano Narrows Bridge.\n\nIn 1963, Piantanida was living in Brick Township, New Jersey, and had a business selling pets when he discovered skydiving. One day after watching jumps at the then new Lakewood Sport Parachuting Center near Lakewood, he began taking lessons and jumping regularly. After making hundreds of jumps and earning a class D expert license, he learned of the jump from a balloon by Yevgeni Andreyev that gave the official world record for the highest parachute jump to the Soviet Union, and determined to bring the world record back to the United States. (The unofficial record, which Piantanida was also trying to break, was held by Joseph Kittinger of the U.S.)\n\nPiantanida took a job driving trucks in order to give him time to train on weekends. He earnestly studied meteorology, balloon technology and survival systems. As author Craig Ryan put it, he \"transformed himself into the director of a one-man aeronautical research program.\" He obtained money from sponsors, and, after lobbying by a United States Senator, the United States Air Force gave him access to training facilities and David Clark Company loaned him a pressure suit. He assembled a team of volunteers for an attempt at the world free-fall record.\n\nOn October 22, 1965, Piantanida made his first attempt at the record in his balloon named \"Strato Jump I\". The attempt ended when a wind shear tore off the top of his balloon, ending the flight at just and forcing Piantanida to parachute into the Saint Paul, Minnesota city dump.\n\nOn February 2, 1966, in his second attempt, Piantanida launched in \"Strato Jump II\" from Joe Foss Field near Sioux Falls, South Dakota, and reached an unprecedented altitude of . From that height he had planned to parachute from the balloon to set a world record for the highest parachute jump, but was unable to disconnect himself from his oxygen line. He aborted the jump and detached the gondola from the balloon, returning to earth in the gondola without the balloon. Because he did not return to earth with his balloon, his unprecedented altitude is not recognized by the \"Fédération Aéronautique Internationale\" as a balloon altitude world record, and because he did not jump from the balloon's gondola at 123,500 feet, he earned no parachute altitude record.\n\nOn the morning of May 1, 1966, Piantanida donned a bright orange suit and parachute harness. Secured inside a styrofoam-insulated gondola about the size of a portable toilet, he began his ascent for a planned super-sonic free fall from over 120,000 feet. However, ground controllers listening to the communications link with the \"Strato Jump III\" were startled by the sound of a whoosh of rushing air and a sudden, cut-off call over the radio to abort. Piantanida's suit had depressurized at about the 57,000-foot mark. Ground controllers immediately jettisoned the balloon at close to – higher than the cruising altitude for commercial jets – and for 25 minutes Piantanida's gondola parachuted to the ground. He barely survived the descent, having suffered massive tissue damage due to ebullism. The lack of oxygen left him brain damaged and in a coma from which he never recovered. Piantanida died four months later at the Veterans Hospital in Philadelphia, on August 29. He was buried in Holy Cross Cemetery in North Arlington, New Jersey.\n\nThe gondola of the \"Strato Jump III\" is preserved and displayed in the Boeing Aviation Hangar at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum's Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center in Chantilly, Virginia.\n\nPiantanida was Roman Catholic. He married Janice McDowell in 1963, and they had three daughters: Donna, Diane, and Debbie.\n\nA film based on his life, entitled \"Angry Sky\", premiered at the Tribeca Film Festival on April 22, 2015, and on ESPN as part of the \"30 for 30\" series on July 30, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "47556814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47556814", "title": "Olexandr Kolchenko", "text": "Olexandr Kolchenko\n\nOlexandr Olexandrovych Kolchenko (, , nicknamed \"Tundra\", born November 26, 1989) is a Ukrainian left-wing and trade union activist, antifascist, anarchist, ecologist, archaeologist, who has been convicted of terrorism by the Russian occupation administration of Crimea in 2014.\n\nOlexandr Kolchenko and three more Crimean pro-Ukrainian activists: Olexiy Chyrniy, Gennadiy Afanasyev and Oleg Sentsov are united by a common criminal case of the so-called \"Crimean terrorists\". All four have been arrested and imprisoned in Russia after the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation.\n\nBorn in a working-class family, Olexandr Kolchenko worked as a loader at the post while studying tourism management at the geographic faculty of Tavrida National University in Simferopol. He became a supporter of anarchist, antifascist and internationalist ideas. Since 2007, Kolchenko has been an active militant of the local antifascist movement. He staged numerous street protests against manifestations of fascism in the region, and participated in clashes with both Ukrainian and pro-Russian far right. He also organized actions of solidarity with Russian antifascists who fell victims of the neo-Nazi terror or government repression, including Anastasia Baburova and Ivan Khutorskoy.\n\nFrom 2010 to 2013, Kolchenko was an active member of the independent trade union \"Student Action\" composed of socialists and anarchists advocating free education, student rights, and autonomy of universities. He was involved to numerous events and public campaigns to protect workers' rights and the environment. He was supporting the struggles of Crimean Trolleybus employees and protesting against construction of a contaminant port in Crimea.\n\nOlexandr Kolchenko was detained on May 16, 2014 in Simferopol, Crimea, Ukraine. He was convicted of arson of the offices of Russian political organizations and planning the bombing of the Soviet Memorial monument in Crimea. On May 23, 2014 Olexandr was convoyed to Moscow and imprisoned in the Lefortovo prison.\n\nDespite his left-wing and antifascist affiliations, he has been accused of belonging to the Ukrainian ultranationalist organization Right Sector and of plotting terrorist attacks.\n\nIn June 2015 the investigation of the Kolchenko and Sentsov criminal case was finished and the case went to trial. On July 31, 2015 the Rostov-on-Don military court started hearings on this case.\nOlexandr Kolchenko stood trial together with Oleg Sentsov.\n\nThe accusation against Kolchenko and Sentsov is primarily based on evidence given by two other so-calles \"Crimean terrorists\", Chyrniy and Afanasyev, broadcast on Russian television. But they refused to testify in court. Afanasyev announced that his testimonies had been given under torture.\n\nOlexandr Kolchenko rejects all charges of terrorism. Kolchenko fully admits to hurling a Molotov cocktail at a building housing pro-Russian organizations (namely United Russia ruling party, formerly Crimean Party of Regions, and Russian Community of Crimea NGO), but denies that this was terrorism. The attack was committed at night when the participants understood the office to be empty and there was no intention to put anybody's life in danger. According to the human rights organization Memorial, similar attacks on party offices in Russia to this date have been punished as arson or \"hooliganism\" and not as terrorism.\n\nBoth Kolchenko and his lawyer, Svetlana Sidorkina, are adamant that the only real charge against Kolchenko can be classified as hooliganism or vandalism. Kolchenko also refuted belonging to the political party Right Sector which is banned in Russia. Right Sector itself has released a press statement stating that the four individuals considered by Russia as \"Crimean terrorists\" have nothing to do with the party.\n\nRussian authorities denied Sentsov and Kolchenko Ukrainian consular assistance, claiming that they were Russian citizens. Following the annexation of Crimea, Kolchenko and Sentsov had not signed the document stating that they did not wish to change citizenship. In other words, these accused men have been ″united with Russia″ along with the Crimean peninsula\". In turn, the State Migration Service of Ukraine confirmed Kolchenko's Ukrainian citizenship and the Kyiv Prosecutor's Office opened a case regarding the abduction of a Ukrainian citizen Olexandr Kolchenko.\n\nAccording to his lawyer, Svetlana Sidorkina, Kolchenko was illegally issued with a Russian passport, dated May 26, 2014, when he was already in detention. Kolchenko has sent a complaint to the European Court of Human Rights against Russian citizenship forcibly having been conferred on him.\n\nOn August 25, 2015 the board of military judges chaired by the judge Sergey Mikhailyuk sentenced Olexandr Kolchenko and Oleg Sentsov to 10 and 20 years respectively. When the verdict was pronounced, Kolchenko and Sentsov started to sing the Ukrainian National Anthem.\n\nThe highly politicized trial of Sentsov and Kolchenko has resonated not only in Ukraine but also worldwide. Many prominent world organizations advocating human rights and democratic movement such as OSCE, US Mission to the OSCE, Amnesty International, International Federation of Human Rights, FIDH - Center for Civil Liberties\nHuman Rights in Ukraine, Open Democracy, No Borders Network, European Trade Unions, the European Court of Human Rights, and the Group of Resistance to Political repressions in Russia have condemned political persecution of Kolchenko and called for his release.\nKolchenko's name was mentioned in an OSCE PA resolution condemning Russia's continuing actions in Ukraine. These organizations call on Russia to \"immediately release and return to Ukraine detained pilot Nadiya Savchenko, filmmaker Oleg Sentsov, Olexandr Kolchenko and all other illegally detained Ukrainian citizens\". The Active Generation: The web activists network, The Committee of Solidarity with the \"Crimean hostages\" and the International Solidarity Campaign for Olexandr Kolchenko run an ongoing multinational supporting campaign for the political prisoner. The information about how to support Olexandr Kolchenko is available in German, Italian, French and Spanish.\nThe social media campaign uses the hashtag \"#freeKolchenko\".\n\nThe Memorial Human Rights Center and Amnesty International have recognized Olexandr Kolchenko as a political prisoner.\nHe was open about his opposition to the occupation of Crimea by Russia, prompting a fierce reaction from the Russian authorities.\nThe Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine urged the Russian Federation to immediately release Oleg Sentsov and Olexandr Kolchenko. The sentencing of Kolchenko was condemned by the US Department of State and the European Union. Kolchenko′s lawyer, Svetlana Sidorkina, compared the verdict to one from the times of Stalin′s Great Terror. She intends to appeal to the Supreme Court of Russia and to the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nThe President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko awarded Olexandr Kolchenko an Order for Courage First Class () for personal courage and dedication in upholding constitutional rights and freedoms for the integrity of the Ukrainian state on September 24, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "443935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=443935", "title": "Psamtik I", "text": "Psamtik I\n\nWahibre Psamtik I, known by the Greeks as Psammeticus or Psammetichus (Latinization of ), who ruled 664–610 BC, was the first of three kings of that name of the Saite, or Twenty-sixth Dynasty of Egypt. Historical references for what the Greeks referred to as the Dodecarchy, a loose confederation of twelve Egyptian territories, based on the traditional nomes, and the rise of Psamtik I in power, establishing the Saitic Dynasty, are recorded in Herodotus's \"Histories\", Book II: 151–157. From cuneiform texts, it was discovered that twenty local princelings were appointed by Esarhaddon and confirmed by Ashurbanipal to govern Egypt.\n\nNecho I, the father of Psamtik by his queen Istemabet, was the chief of these kinglets, but they seem to have been quite unable to lead the Egyptians under the hated Assyrians against the more sympathetic Nubians. The labyrinth built by Amenemhat III of the Twelfth Dynasty of Egypt is ascribed by Herodotus to the Dodecarchy, which must represent this combination of rulers.\n\nNecho I died in 664 BC when the Kushite king Tantamani tried unsuccessfully to seize control of lower Egypt from the Assyrian Empire. After his father's death, Psamtik both united all of Egypt and freed it from Assyrian control within the first ten years of his reign.\n\nPsamtik reunified Egypt in his ninth regnal year when he dispatched a powerful naval fleet in March 656 BC to Thebes and compelled the existing God's Wife of Amun at Thebes, Shepenupet II, to adopt his daughter Nitocris I as her heiress in the so-called Adoption Stela. Psamtik's victory destroyed the last vestiges of the Nubian Twenty-fifth Dynasty's control over Upper Egypt under Tantamani since Thebes now accepted his authority. Nitocris would hold her office for 70 years from 656 BC until her death in 585 BC. Thereafter, Psamtik campaigned vigorously against those local princes who opposed his reunification of Egypt. One of his victories over certain Libyan marauders is mentioned in a Year 10 and Year 11 stela from the Dakhla Oasis. Psamtik won Egypt's independence from the Assyrian Empire and restored Egypt's prosperity during his 54-year reign. The pharaoh proceeded to establish close relations with archaic Greece and also encouraged many Greek settlers to establish colonies in Egypt and serve in the Egyptian army. In particular, he settled some Greeks at Tahpanhes (Daphnae).\n\nThe Greek historian Herodotus conveyed an anecdote about Psamtik in the second volume of his \"Histories\" (2.2). During his travel to Egypt, Herodotus heard that Psammetichus (\"Psamṯik\") sought to discover the origin of language by conducting an experiment with two children. Allegedly he gave two newborn babies to a shepherd, with the instructions that no one should speak to them, but that the shepherd should feed and care for them while listening to determine their first words. The hypothesis was that the first word would be uttered in the root language of all people. When one of the children cried \"βεκός\" (bekós) with outstretched arms, the shepherd concluded that the word was Phrygian because that was the sound of the Phrygian word for \"bread\". Thus, they concluded that the Phrygians were an older people than the Egyptians, and that Phrygian was the original language of men. There are no other extant sources to verify this story.\n\nPsamtik's chief wife was Mehytenweskhet, the daughter of Harsiese, the vizier of the North and High Priest of Atum at Heliopolis. Psamtik and Mehytenweskhet were the parents of Necho II, Merneith, and the Divine Adoratrice Nitocris I.\n\nPsamtik's father-in-law—the aforementioned Harsiese—was married three times: to Sheta, with whom he had a daughter named Naneferheres, to Tanini and, finally, to an unknown woman, by whom he had both Djedkare, the vizier of the South and Mehytenweskhet. Harsiese was the son of vizier Harkhebi, and was related to two other Harsieses, both viziers, who were a part of the family of the famous Mayor of Thebes Montuemhat.\n\nOn 9 March 2017, Egyptian and German archaeologists discovered a colossal statue about in height at the Heliopolis site in Cairo. Made of quartzite, the statue was found in a fragmentary state, with the bust, the lower part of the head and the crown submerged in groundwater.\n\nIt has now been confirmed to be of Psamtik I due to engravings found that mentioned one of the pharaoh's names on the base of the statue.\n\nA spokesperson at the time commented that \"If it does belong to this king, then it is the largest statue of the Late Period that was ever discovered in Egypt.\" The head and torso are expected to be moved to the Grand Egyptian Museum.\nThe statue/colossus was sculpted in the ancient classical style of 2000 BC, establishing a resurgence to the greatness and prosperity of the classical period of old. However, from the many gathered fragments (now 6,400 of them) of quartzite collected, it has also been established that the colossus was at sometime deliberately destroyed. Certain discoloured & cracked rock fragments show evidence of having been heated to high temperatures then shattered (with cold water), a pretty typical way of destroying ancient colossi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32701781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32701781", "title": "Railway Interiors Expo", "text": "Railway Interiors Expo\n\nRailway Interiors Expo is an annual industry show held in November, in varying locations. Organised by UKIP Media & Events the show has become a major event for the railway business since it was launched in 2004 and now visitors from over 60 countries attend.\n\nExhibitors at the Railway Interiors Expo offer a range of products and services related to train interiors, everything from seating and lighting to floor finishes and textiles, food service equipment, Wi-Fi, in-train entertainment systems, to highlight only a few.\n\nRailway Interiors Expo is typically visited by genuine industry individuals, creating a beneficial opportunity for exhibitors to find new business opportunities, globally and at the same time providing all participants with a networking opportunity.\n\nIn 2011, Railway Interiors Expo will take place in hall 9 of the Koelnmesse trade fair and exhibition center located in Cologne, Germany. The expo will run from 15 to 17 November and will include over 100 exhibitors.\n\nIn 2011 Railway Interiors Expo will feature a free to attend Design & Technology forum and an Awards for Innovation & Excellence ceremony.\n\n"}
{"id": "8130284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8130284", "title": "Rainer Eppelmann", "text": "Rainer Eppelmann\n\nRainer Eppelmann () (born 12 February 1943 in Berlin), is a German politician. Known for his opposition in the German Democratic Republic, he became Minister for Disarmament and Defense in the last cabinet. He is now a member of the CDU.\n\nThe erection of the Berlin Wall forced him to drop out of the school he had attended in West Berlin in 1961 and he was forbidden from taking his Abitur exams in the East for refusing to join the Free German Youth movement. He then worked as an assistant to a roofer before doing a job training for bricklayer. He is a pacifist. In 1966, for refusing both regular service and \"Bausoldat\" (construction soldier in the National People's Army), he was put into prison for eight months.\n\nLater, he studied Theology at the theological school in Berlin, an education he completed in 1974 with two exams. He then worked as a Lutheran pastor in Berlin-Friedrichshain and took part in the opposition, such as being the editor of samizdat publications with Thomas Welz. It has been claimed that during this period Eppelmann had contact with the CIA.\n\nIn 1990, Eppelmann was one of the founding fathers of the Democratic Awakening, becoming its president. Thus, he took an active part in the round table of 1990, preparing the German reunification. From 18 March 1990 to 2 October 1990 (when it ceased to exist) he was a member of the Volkskammer. He became a Minister in the cabinet of Hans Modrow and later in the one of Lothar de Maizière. When the Democratic Awakening joined the Christian Democratic Union in August 1990, Eppelmann became a member and, later, the assisting chairman of the worker's division of the CDU, the CDA.\n\nHe was a member of the Bundestag from 1990 to 2005 for the Christian Democratic Union. Then, he was chairman of the commission that coped with the history of the German Democratic Republic.\n\nEppelmann's trademark is his \"Berliner Schnauze\", an idiom that is supposed to bring him close to the people of Berlin.\n\nHe is married and has five children.\n\n\nBoth retrieved January 2, 2007\n\n"}
{"id": "31418968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31418968", "title": "Rico Tipo", "text": "Rico Tipo\n\nRico Tipo was a weekly Argentine comic magazine that appeared from late 1944 until 1972, founded and directed by Guillermo Divito. It was among the main comic magazines in Argentina, others being \"Patoruzú\" (launched in 1936) and \"Satiricón\" (founded in 1972). Rico Tipo was much more successful, adapting to changing tastes through a period of 36 years.\n\nJosé Antonio Guillermo Divito joined the stable of artists at the Patoruzú weekly as a young man, where he began drawing his first illustrations of \"Chicas\" (Girls). The magazine's director, Dante Quinterno, disapproved of the great sensuality of the \"Chicas\", and suggested tweaks and longer skirts. Tired of this interference, and unable to get a raise of pay, Divito decided to create his own magazine Rico Tipo, which was launched on 16 November 1944. By the next year it had a weekly print run of around 350,000 copies.\n\nIn addition to the \"Chicas\", Divito included in Rico Tipo a whole series of characters that portrayed aspects recognizable to the average citizen: Pochita Morfoni, an obese woman who only thinks about food; Fulmine, an ugly man dressed in black who brings bad luck and misfortune; Fallutelli, prototype sycophantic employee and traitor to his fellows; Bombolo, a fat good-natured and naive man who cannot understand figurative speech and always take things literally; Gracielita, a very modern, waspish girl.\nThe most important character was Dr. Merengue, whom Pablo de Santis in his book \"Rico Tipo y las Chicas de Divito\" called \"a sort of criollo Mr. Hyde\".\nDr Merengue behaved as required by the more conservative social conventions: serious, formal, fair, accurate and dispassionate, never losing his composure. But in the last square of the strip, his alter ego revealed his true feelings or thoughts.\n\nBesides Divito, Rico Tipo included the cream of Argentine humorous writing and graphics at the time, and trained future generations of writers and artists who took their first steps at the magazine.\nThese included Oscar Conti (\"Oski\"), Alejandro del Prado (\"Cale\"), Rodolfo M. Taboada, Horacio S. Meyrialle, Miguel Angel Bavio Esquiú, Abel Ianiro, Joaquín Lavado (\"Quino\"), Tomás Elvino Blanco, Rafael Martínez, Guillermo Guerrero and many others.\nAdolfo Mazzone's character Piantadino appeared in the magazine.\n\nRico Tipo had two decades of glory, the 1940s and 1950s, during which the magazine had huge popular acceptance.\nThe adult population enjoyed the drawing, characters and humor in which passions and sensuality were not entirely absent.\nThe \"Chicas de Divito\" (Divito Girls), especially, distinguished the magazine from its rivals.\nThe magazine was so successful and popular that it influenced fashion in Buenos Aires at the time.\nWomen wanted to look like the Divito Girls who often appeared on the covers of the magazine.\nMen admired that style of woman, and also adopted the costumes of the Divito's male characters, with double-breasted suits with long jackets and many buttons.\n\nThe emergence of a more liberal attitude to sexuality in the late sixties began to weaken the influence of the magazine.\nPolitical events in the country also affected the magazine.\nSurvival of the publication by the end of the sixties depended on Divito's changing his style.\nDivito, who died in 1969, never saw the demise of the magazine, which came three years later, nor a change in style that probably he would not have liked.\n\n"}
{"id": "48624025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48624025", "title": "Sad Satan", "text": "Sad Satan\n\nSad Satan is a PC game built with the \"Terror Engine\", first reported on the YouTube channel \"Obscure Horror Corner\" on June 15, 2015. Following initial reviews, the channel's video of the game was picked by a number of English-language publications and later internationally.\n\nThe title is a reference to the Led Zeppelin song \"Stairway to Heaven.\" Allegedly, when the song is played backwards, disturbing and Satanic lyrics can be heard. One of the lines from the supposedly backmasked lyrics is \"There was a little tool shed where he made us suffer, sad Satan.\"\n\nIn an interview with \"Kotaku\", the channel's owner claims to have downloaded the game from a Tor hidden service after receiving a tip from an anonymous subscriber. The subscriber in turn claims to have found the link via a deep web internet forum, from a user only known as \"ZK\". Initially, some followers were skeptical of the game, fearing it may contain gore or child pornography (as both are common staples of media traded throughout the deep web). However, the owner of \"Obscure Horror Corner\" shared that, so far in his playthroughs, the game had not contained any such material.\n\nFollowing the \"Kotaku\" interview, the subreddit \"/r/sadsatan\" was formed on the website Reddit to discuss the game, quickly realising the .onion address provided by \"Obscure Horror Corner\" contained invalid characters. 3 days later, another interview with the \"Obscure Horror Corner\" owner appeared on Kotaku, claiming that the link was purposefully given in error since the game itself did in fact contain such graphic material and the \"Obscure Horror Corner\" channel owner did not want to be responsible for disseminating such material. In an update to the \"Kotaku\" article, Patricia Hernandez states:\n\nMinutes before the update, a new version of the game was posted to 4chan by someone claiming to be ZK, claiming that \"Obscure Horror Corner\" had not been showing their viewers the \"true\" Sad Satan. Members of the 4chan community downloaded this version of the game and attempted to play it. Some users complained that their computers began running sluggishly, and a few even reported that their computers became completely unresponsive while trying to run the game. A few users even reported that their computer would not turn on anymore after running this version of the game. One Reddit user attempted to play the game from a Live USB instead of their computer's main hard drive. Later, when they tried to boot into their computer as normal, the computer failed to load. This version, dubbed the \"clone\" by most of the /r/sadsatan community, contained images of violent gore and some child pornography, some of which was accessible right from the Title Screen of the game. A version of the game with the pornography removed, often called the \"clean\" version was created by Redditors and subsequently redistributed in hopes that people who went out to download the game would download it instead of the \"clone\", which contained the graphic imagery.\n\nSad Satan was the last game covered by \"Obscure Horror Corner\", and since then, the YouTube channel was abandoned for unknown reasons. There has been speculation that the game was in fact created by the owner of the \"Obscure Horror Corner\" in an effort to increase viewer subscription count, and that the Deep Web story was a complete fabrication to give the whole account more intrigue. \nIt is also possible that Sad Satan was not created by the owner of \"Obscure Horror Corner\", and that in truth, the owner of the channel decided to go into hiding because of all the controversy after the malware version of Sad Satan was released. \n\nThe original game posted by \"Obscure Horror Corner\" features walking down monochromatic corridors while various audio samples are played and looped over each other. Audio in the game leans heavily on recordings of interviews with various murderers, such as Charles Manson. The game also depends heavily on distorted or reversed audio of such interviews or musical clips, such as \"Wo Ai Beijing Tiananmen\", played in the beginning. Reversed clips from the Swedish Rhapsody numbers station can also be heard. While the player controls their character through the hallways, images may intermittently display, taking up the entire screen and preventing the player from progressing any further until the image automatically closes a few seconds later. Most of the images seem to reference child abuse, especially people indicted in Operation Yewtree, such as images of Jimmy Savile and Rolf Harris. Other images revolve around crime, and include people convicted or accused of murder, such as Japanese murderer Tsutomu Miyazaki, photographs of Lady Justice statues, and political figures such as former UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. Images of accident victims and murder victims are also shown, including the aftermath of a person struck by a truck, and a beheading. The only other \"characters\" in the game are children who simply stand in one place and do not move or interact with the player at all. In the final video posted by \"Obscure Horror Corner\", one of these children does begin to follow the player, causing \"contact damage\". Since the player has no means of self-defense or any ability to heal damage, the player will inevitably die at this point in the game.\n\n"}
{"id": "23876702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23876702", "title": "Sikh Youth Symposium", "text": "Sikh Youth Symposium\n\nThe Sikh Youth Symposium is an annual public speaking and debate competition held for the Sikh youth across the United States of America and Canada, encouraging them to reconnect with their cultural foundations and religious roots. Organized by the Sikh Youth Alliance of North America (SYANA), the competition is open to children between the ages of 6 and 22 and has three levels--locals, regionals, and internationals. The children are divided into five groups, on the basis of age, with the first four groups competing by way of prepared speeches and the final group engaging in a stimulating discussion focused on a yearly chosen topic. The competition aims to ensure that the next generation of Sikh leaders remains firmly connected to the basic principles of its religion.\n\nThe competition is divided into five age groups: Group I (6-8 years old), Group II (9-10 years old), Group III (11-13 years old), Group IV (14-17 years old, and Group V (16-22 years old). Each age group is assigned a different book on the Sikh religion each year by a committee of regional and international conveners. This committee also generates a list of three questions for each age group that are to be answered in the participants' speeches. The answers to these questions can be found, in large part, in the book assigned; however, some reflection and critical thinking by the participants is necessary in answering the questions, as well. \n\nThe local level of the competition is usually held within a gurdwara. The winners in each group of the competition advance to the regional level, which usually involves four to five gurdwaras in close geographical proximity. The winners in each group of this competition advance to the international level, which is hosted in a different city across the United States of America and Canada every year.\n\nAt the local, regional, and international level for groups I - IV, the competition is held in the form of a prepared speech. Group I's allotted time is 5 minutes, Group II's allotted time is 6 minutes, Group III's allotted time is 6 minutes, and Group IV's allotted time is 7 minutes. A panel of three judges assesses the speeches, weighing 60% of a participant's score on his/her content (answering the questions) and the remaining 40% on the participant's presentation (style and delivery, eye contact, voice and diction, language, and overall effectiveness). For Group V, the local and regional competition is usually a prepared speech, graded in the same manner as groups I-IV. However, the international competition for Group V is a debate between the winners from each region. The debate consists of four phases--opening statements, questions from the moderator, closing statements, and questions from the sangat--and typically lasts three hours. \n\nWhereas the local and regional competition are completed in a day in April/May, the international competition spans the entire first weekend of August. Finalists and their families arrive in the host city on a Thursday, checking in that evening and receiving their informational packets for the weekend. Also on Thursday evening, the regional and international conveners meet to decide on the books and international host city for the next year. On Friday morning, the competition for Group I, Group II, and Group III is typically held before langar and Group IV's competition is held after langar. On Friday evening, participants and their families enjoy a social activity, ranging from a tour of the city and its notable landmarks to a fun activity, such as bowling or attending a rodeo. On Saturday, the marquee event of the Symposium--the Group V debate--is held throughout the morning and early afternoon. In the evening, participants and their families enjoy a formal banquet to honor the Symposium's participants. On Sunday morning, the awards ceremony is held and, after langar, the Symposium is officially complete.\n\nDetroit, Michigan\nToronto, Ontario\nAtlanta, Georgia\nBoston, Massachusetts\nSeattle, Washington\nBakersfield, California\nDallas, Texas (Akaljot Gurdwara and Sikh Temple of North Texas)\nDetroit, Michigan (Singh Sabha of Michigan and Madison Heights Gurdwara)\nToronto, Ontario\n\nSeattle, Washington\n\nGroup I: \"Warrior Princess I\" by Harjit Singh Lakhan\n\nGroup II: \"Warrior Princess II\" by Harjit Singh Lakhan\n\nGroup III: \"Khalsa Generals\" by Dr. Gurbakhsh Singh\n\nGroup IV: \"Martyrs - The Pride of Sikhs\" by Sikh Missionary College, Ludhiana\n\nGroup V: \"Panth Dardiyo Kuchh Karo\" by Sikh Missionary College, Ludhiana\n\nSEWA gurudwara Atlanta, Georgia\nGroup I: \"Supreme Sacrifices of Young Souls\" by Jagdish Singh\n\nGroup II: \"Why Am I A Sikh?\" by Sikh Missionary College, Ludhiana\n\nGroup III: \"Sikh Way of Life\" by Sikh Missionary College, Ludhiana\n\nGroup IV: \"Brief History of Sikh Misls\" by Sikh Missionary College, Ludhiana\n\nGroup V: \"The Message of Gurbani (Chapters on Anand Sahib, Asa Ki Var, and 'Who is God')\" by Dr. Gurbaksh Singh\n\nCleveland, Ohio\nGroup I: \"The Illustrated Story of Chamkaur Sahib: The Martyrdom of Elder Sahibzadas\" by S. Jagdish Singh\n\nGroup II: \"Selected Episodes from Sikh History - Vol I\" by Sikh Missionary College, Ludhiana\n\nGroup III: \"We Are Not Symbols\" by S. Harjot Singh\n\nGroup IV: \"Chithiyan Likh Satguraan Val Paiaan\" by S. Manohar Singh\n\nGroup V: \"1984 Pogroms - 30 years\" \n\nGurdwara Khalsa Prakash, Windsor, ON\nGroup I: \"Basic Principles of SIkhism\", Sikh Missionary College, Ludhiana\n\nGroup II: \"The Warrior Princess: Mata Bhaag Kaur\", by S. Harmeet Singh\n\nGroup III: \"Brief History of the Sikh Gurus\", Sikh Missionary College, Ludhiana\n\nGroup IV: \"Teaching Sikh Heritage to the Youth (Vol. 1)\", by Dr. Gurbaksh Singh\n\nGroup V: \"Sikhism: A Universal Message\", by Dr. Gurbaksh Singh\n\nGurdwara Pittsburgh, Monroeville, PA\nGroup I: \"My Guru's Blessings Book 1\", by S. Daljeet Singh, Gyan Khand Media\n\nGroup II: \"My Guru's Blessings Book 2\", by S. Daljeet Singh, Gyan Khand Media\n\nGroup III: \"Teaching Sikh Heritage to the Youth (Vol. 2)\", by Dr. Gurbaksh Singh\n\nGroup III: \"Sahibey Kamaal Guru Gobind Singh\", by Daulat Rai\n\nGroup V: \"Sidh Gosht\", Sikh Missionary College, Ludhiana\n\nWinners:\nGroup ||First Place ||Second Place ||Third Place\n1 ||Gurdit Singh (WA)|| ||Saachvir Singh (Niagra Falls) ||Pavan Singh (Dallas)\n2 ||Arshmeet Singh (MA) ||Simerdeep Singh (GA) ||Meharvan Singh (Renton)\n3 ||Sahej Kaur (Renton) ||Harjas Kaur (GA) ||Gurjot Singh (Toronto)\n4 ||Arushi Kaur (Midwest) ||Amneet Singh (MA) ||Kirnvir Kaur (Bakersfield)\n5 ||Simranpreet Singh (NY-NJ)||Jagjit Singh (Midwest) ||Milanpreet Kaur (Ontario)\n\nGurdwara Nanak Darbar, Duncan, SC\nGroup I: \"My Guru's Blessings Book 3\", by S. Daljeet Singh, Gyan Khand Media\n\nGroup II: \"My Guru's Blessings Book 4\", by S. Daljeet Singh, Gyan Khand Media\n\nGroup III: \"Khalsa Generals\", by Dr. Gurbaksh Singh\n\nGroup IV: \"Baba Banda Singh Bahadur\", Sikh Missionary College, Ludhiana\n\nGroup V: \"Asa Ki Vaar\", Sikh Missionary College, Ludhiana\n\nKhalsa Gurmat Center, Federal Way, WA\nGroup I: \"Warrior Princess Rani Sahib Kaur\", by S. Harmeet Singh\n\nGroup II: \"Why Am I a Sikh\", Sikh Missionary College, Ludhiana\n\nGroup III: \"Selected Episodes from Sikh History - Part 3\", Sikh Missionary College, Ludhiana\n\nGroup IV: \"Guru Granth Sahib: A Supreme Treasure\", Dr. Sarup Singh\n\nGroup V: (Theme) \"Importance of Giving Gurgaddi to Guru Granth Sahib\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11540749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11540749", "title": "Terre Haute (play)", "text": "Terre Haute (play)\n\nTerre Haute is a 2006 play by the American writer Edmund White.\n\nIt deals with a fictional encounter between the 1995 Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh and a character similar to author Gore Vidal in the days prior to the former's 2001 execution inside a prison complex in Terre Haute, Indiana.\n\nThe play made its stage première as part of the 2006 Edinburgh Festival Fringe, held in Edinburgh, Scotland, and transferred to Trafalgar Studios, a West End theatre located London, England, in May 2007. The U.S. premiere was in San Francisco in 2007. Its New York City, New York, début was in 2009, at the 59E59 Theaters, an off-Broadway theatre complex.\n"}
{"id": "23225385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23225385", "title": "The Bells of Nagasaki", "text": "The Bells of Nagasaki\n\n\"These are the bells that did not ring for weeks or months after the disaster. May there never be a time when they do not ring! May they ring out this message of peace until the morning of the day on which the world ends.\"\n\nInitially, the book was refused publication by the American forces occupying Japan, until an appendix was added describing Japanese atrocities in the Philippines. This appendix was later removed.\n\n\nA film adaptation directed by Hideo Ōba was released September 23, 1950.\n\nIn 2011, UK film Production Company Pixel Revolution Films announced plans to produce a film on the life of Dr. Nagai. Directors Ian and Dominic Higgins cited \"The Bells of Nagasaki\" (the book) as one of the main inspirations for making the film. The film is titled \"All That Remains\" and was released in 2016. It is the first Western film to deal directly with the atomic bombing of Nagasaki.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47713724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47713724", "title": "The End Tour", "text": "The End Tour\n\nThe End Tour was the farewell tour of the heavy metal band Black Sabbath, featuring founding members Ozzy Osbourne, Tony Iommi and Geezer Butler. The tour concluded Sabbath's 40+ year career. The final show was 4 February 2017, in their home city of Birmingham, UK.\n\nInitial dates were announced in a video posted on the band's YouTube channel on 3 September 2015 with more dates announced in October 2015. As with the previous tour, Tommy Clufetos filled in for original drummer Bill Ward, due to the latter's departure and animosity towards singer Ozzy Osbourne. An eight-track EP, entitled \"The End\", was released to coincide with this tour and was only available at shows. Rival Sons were the sole support act for all of Black Sabbath's headlining shows.\nOsbourne said of the farewell tour, \"this is it, it's definitely run its course\".\n\nThe tour concluded on 4 February 2017 with the final two gigs being played in the band's native Birmingham. The last show was streamed live on the band's Facebook page. Prior to the gig, Ozzy discussed his emotions he was feeling, suggesting he would cry after the farewell. Osbourne was adamant this is the end, but intends to carry on with solo work, having already returned following a 1992 'final' solo tour. Iommi confirmed no more world tours, but remains open to a new album or one-off show. Iommi had been diagnosed with lymphoma in 2012, and the toll of touring on his health was the main reason to end touring. Osbourne had intended to say something to the crowd but did not prepare a speech. He closed the show with a simple statement to the crowd \"\"Thank you, goodnight, thank you so much\".\"\n\n\n\"The End\" [Video intro]\n\"Zeitgeist\" [Audio outro]\n\n\"The End\" [Video intro]\n\"Zeitgeist\" [Audio outro]\n\nThe tour grossed $84.8 million, with 1,074,495 tickets sold from 74 shows.\n\n"}
{"id": "23775776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23775776", "title": "The Soap Myth", "text": "The Soap Myth\n\nThe Soap Myth is a play by American playwright Jeff Cohen. Information about the play can be found at http://www.burkecohenent.com/439032480.\n\nThe play had a workshop run in July 2009 at the \"Dog Run Repertory Company,\" and a rewritten version had an Off-Broadway run in the Spring of 2012 Off Broadway at The Roundabout Theater's Harold and Mimi Steinberg Theatre Center. That production was filmed and the film was broadcast nationally on PBS and can be viewed at digitaltheatre.com. The cast was Greg Mullavey, Andi Potamkin, Dee Pelletier and Donald Corren under the direction of Arnold Mittlelman.\n\nOn May 2, 2016, \"The Soap Myth\" was presented as a reading at the Bruno Walter Auditorium at the Lincoln Center Library for the Performing Arts. The reading, directed by Pam Berlin, starred legendary 7-time Emmy Award winning actor Ed Asner and 2-time Tony Award nominee Jayne Atkinson. The cast also included Blair Baker and Donald Corren. The reading, produced by Burke-Cohen Entertainment, was the flagship event of Remembrance Readings, a national program in honor of Holocaust Memorial Day presented by the National Jewish Theater Foundation.\n\nDuring the week of February 21, 2017, \"The Soap Myth\" had 5 West Coast readings: @ Marin Academy and Marin Theater Company (San Francisco), @ Shomrei Torah Synagogue in West Hills (LA), University Synagogue in Irvine and at Center Theatre Group's Kirk Douglas Theatre in Culver City (LA). The cast was Ed Asner, 4-time Tony Award nominee, 2-time Drama Desk Award winner and 2-time Emmy Award nominee Tovah Feldshuh, Blair Baker and Donald Corren under the direction of Pam Berlin.\n\nFrom January 22 to February 1, 2018, \"The Soap Myth\" enjoyed a brief tour starring Ed Asner as Holocaust survivor Milton Saltzman and two time Tony Award nominee Johanna Day in the dual roles of Holocaust scholar Esther Feinman and Holocaust denier Brenda Goodsen. Blair Baker again played Annie Blumberg and Ned Eisenberg played the roles that had previously been played by Donald Corren. The play was again directed by Pam Berlin. The largely sold-out performances were at the Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing Arts in Miami Beach, FL, the Adolph and Rose Levis Jewish Community Center in Boca Raton, FL, the Parker Playhouse in Fort Lauderdale, FL, the Zeiterion Theater Performing Arts Center in New Bedford, MA, Congregation Rodeph Shalom in Philadelphia, PA, The Museum of Jewish Heritage in Battery Park City, New York City, and Hofstra University in Hempstead, Long Island, NY.\n\n\"The Soap Myth\" dramatizes the powerful confrontation between survivor memory and historical memory and depicts the insidiousness of Holocaust denial. More than a half century after World War II, at the desperate urging of a passionate survivor, a young investigative reporter finds herself caught between numerous versions of the same story and trying to separate fact from fiction. Did the Nazis make soap from the corpses of their murdered Jewish victims? Played out against the backdrop of deadline reporting and journalistic integrity, Jeff Cohen's critically acclaimed play The Soap Myth uses this horrific possibility as its catalyst. It questions who deserves the right to write history — those who have lived it and remember, those studying and protecting it, or those seeking to distort its very existence? And finally, what responsibility should others take once they know the truth?\n\nAlthough \"The Soap Myth\" is a work of fiction, it is, in the words of the program, \"inspired by real people and real events as well as an article written by Josh Rolnick in \"Moment\" magazine profiling Holocaust survivor Morris Spitzer.\"\n\nForemost among the play's historical inspirations is the evidence that the Nazi regime had a program at the Danzig Anatomic Institute in 1944 to develop a process for the mass-production of soap from the fat of Jews being slaughtered in Nazi extermination camps, and produced soap in small quantities at a nearby concentration camp. In a dramatic moment, the players re-enact testimony from the Nuremberg Trials, including this recipe:\n\n5 kilos of human fat are mixed with 10 liters of water and 500 or 1,000 grams of caustic soda. All this is boiled 2 or 3 hours and then cooled. The soap floats to the surface while the water and other sediment remain at the bottom. A bit of salt and soda is added to this mixture. Then fresh water is added and the mixture again boiled 2 or 3 hours. After having cooled, the soap is poured into molds.\"\n\nThe play's central character, is an elderly Holocaust survivor called Milton Saltzman, worked doggedly to establish as fact the idea that the Nazis produced and used soap made from human corpses, even handing bars of such soap to Jews on their way into the sealed chambers that functioned alternately as gas chambers and as shower rooms in the Nazi concentration camps.\n\nThe second character is a young journalist called Annie Blumberg assigned to write a story about Saltzman. She is soon caught between her sympathies for Saltzman and the adamant stand of a number of distinguished scholars of the Holocaust who refuse to publish the Nazi manufacture of soap as fact despite a large amount of eyewitness testimony, including the eyewitness testimony of both Nazis and British prisoners of war at the Nuremberg trial who worked in the experimental soap manufacturing facility at Danzig in 1944, because contemporary documentation is lacking. The scholars in the play fear that without proof beyond the eyewitness testimony, the story of the manufacture of soap from human bodies will become ammunition in the hands of Holocaust deniers.\n\nTwo characters representing historians of the Holocaust argue strongly that although a large number of eyewitnesses including former British POWs, Nazis, and Holocaust survivors have testified about the soap production, because no actual laboratory or production records survive as physical documents, any publication about the production of soap will be used by Holocaust deniers to discredit the reality of the Holocaust itself and, therefore, that no assertions that any soap production took place should be published.\n\nA character called Brenda Goodsen, an amalgam of a number of Holocaust deniers including David Irving, appears in the play to demonstrate the evil of anti-Semitism in the form of Holocaust Denial. This character delivers a speech for minimizing the Holocaust and concluding that the Jews brought it on themselves.\n\nHolocaust historian Robert Melvin Spector concludes that the Nazis \"did indeed use human fat for the making of soap at Stutthof,\" albeit in limited quantity.\n\nThe material in the Nuremberg Trial scenes in the play use as dialogue actual testimony given by British prisoners of war and by Nazis at the historical trials about the development of an industrial process for producing soap from human bodies at the Danzig Anatomic Institute, the production of such soap on a small-scale basis at Stutthof concentration camp, and the actual use of this soap by Nazi personnel.\n\nThe play has gone through two substantially different versions.\n\nThe first received a workshop production at South Street Seaport in July 2009.\n\n\"The New York Times\" called the play a \"pointed investigation of the politics of history.\"\n\n\"Time Out New York\" wrote that the play \"touches on a host of compelling issues: irrefutable versus empirical evidence, the subjective shaping of history, institutional agendas and, in its most effective scene, the potential seduction of anti-Semitism.\" But criticized the play's faulty dramaturgy.\n\n\"NYTheater.com\", praised it's \"...dazzling objectivity and even-handedness\" and \"real moral heft...\"\n\n\"The Villager\" found it compelling, \"There are certain movies, plays, books that one wishes would never end. For me, \"The Soap Myth\" is one of those extraordinary plays.\"\n\nFollowing the workshop production, the play was substantially rewritten and subsequently produced in March, 2012 by the National Jewish Theater Foundation Off Broadway at the Roundabout Theater's Harold & Mimi Steinberg Center Black Box Theater. This production, directed by Arnold Mittelman, featured Greg Mullavey, Andi Potamkin, Donald Corren and Dee Pelletier. Reviews of this production were uniformly positive.\n\n\"The New York Times\" called the revised play \"A revelation... frightening... thought-provoking... genuinely moving.\"\n\n\"History News Network\" called it \"An eye-opening history lesson... gut-wrenching... unforgettable.\"\n\n\"The Philadelphia Jewish Voice\" said \"Continues to haunt me... this is the theatre of witness at its best - provocative and morally ambiguous.\"\n\nPerhaps most importantly, the play has been championed by Michael Berenbaum, one of the world's foremost Holocaust historians and co-Founder and Project Director of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. Mr. Berenbaum has written \"As the scholar specifically named in Jeff Cohen's play \"The Soap Myth,\" I recognize in each of the characters people that I have encountered in my professional career from passionate survivors to stodgy Museum officials, from naïve and innocent reporters to pernicious Holocaust deniers. The play portrays them all powerfully.\"\n\nA film, directed by Ron Kopp and Mr. Mittelman, was made of the National Jewish Theater production. That film will be broadcast nationally through American Public Television on PBS stations across the country. The sponsoring station, WPBT2 in Miami, will air the premiere broadcast on January 27, 2014. In addition, the film will be the first American offering on Britain's prestigious Digital Theatre website.\n\nRon Kopp also directed \"I Will Refuse to Bubble: History and Theater as Defiance,\" a documentary about the making of \"The Soap Myth\" that examines the question of who has the right to write history, highlighting the importance of theater in understanding the world's most incomprehensible events. Featuring Holocaust survivor Irving Roth and scholars Michael Berenbaum, David Marwell and Bonnie Gurewitsch, it also is distributed online by Digital Theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "2996789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2996789", "title": "The State of Mississippi and the Face of Emmett Till", "text": "The State of Mississippi and the Face of Emmett Till\n\nThe State of Mississippi and the Face of Emmett Till is a 2003 play written by David Barr and Mamie Till Mobley. The show chronicles the life and brutal death of Emmett Till, and the circumstances that surrounded his murder.\n\nThe show premiered in September 2003 at the Pegasus Players theatre in Chicago. Directed by Douglas Alan Mann, the play went on a national tour before closing.\n\nThe show premiered in February 2005 at Dillard University in New Orleans. Directed by Vergil Smith, \"Till\" ran for 13 performances before closing. The show was to return to Dillard's stage in February 2006, but due to damage suffered by Hurricane Katrina, it never did.\n\nIt was performed at the Darkhorse Theater in Nashville in 2009.\n\nThe show ran for a weekend at Coppin State University in Baltimore, Maryland during October 2005. Two actors were nominated for an Irene Ryan scholarship.\n\nIt was performed at Grambling State University for Black History Month in 2011. \n\n"}
{"id": "50004431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50004431", "title": "Timeline of the European migrant crisis", "text": "Timeline of the European migrant crisis\n\nThis is a timeline of the European migrant crisis from 2004 to the present. It lists migrant boat shipwrecking events from 2004-2015. From 2015 to the present, it also lists events connected with land migration and countries political reactions related to the European migrant crisis.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "519167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519167", "title": "Tropfest", "text": "Tropfest\n\nTropfest is the world's largest short film festival. It has also become known as the world's first global film festival.\n\nFounded by actor/director John Polson, Tropfest began in 1993 as a screening for 200 people at the 'Tropicana Caffe' in Darlinghurst, Sydney, Australia, but has since become the largest platform for short films in the world. Tropfest Australia usually takes place in December each year in Sydney and is broadcast live to various cities around Australia to an audience of approximately 150,000. Sydney Tropfest 2015 was cancelled less than a month before it was scheduled to run. After much support on social media, Tropfest founder Polson announced in early December 2015 that extra funding had been sourced, and the festival took place in Centennial Park on Sunday, 14 February 2016. In August 2016 it was announced that from February 2017 Sydney's Tropfest would be held in Parramatta in western Sydney.\n\nTropfest differs from other cinema events by being a \"content generation\" platform, rather than an exhibition platform. Filmmakers are required to create new works for the festival which must include an item, known as the \"Tropfest Signature Item\" (TSI) and which changes each year. The films must be less than 7 minutes (including titles and credits) and be world premieres at the Tropfest event.\n\nThe festival's name is derived from the first year's location—the Tropicana Caffe in Darlinghurst, an inner-eastern suburb of Sydney. Created by Australian-born filmmaker John Polson, the first festival was held in 1993 and was originally called the Tropicana Short Film Festival.\n\nThe support and involvement of film personalities from around the world has become one of the trademarks of the festival. Selection of the winning Tropfest film takes place live on the night of the festival by a panel of high-profile industry and celebrity judges, in addition to the previous year's winner. Past judges have included Nicole Kidman, Cate Blanchett, Naomi Watts, Toni Collette, Rose Byrne, Geoffrey Rush, Russell Crowe, John Woo, Samuel L. Jackson, Baz Luhrmann, Keanu Reeves, Sam Neill, Ewan McGregor, Jane Campion, Salma Hayek, George Miller Susan Sarandon and Gabriel Byrne. Corporate supporters have included Intel, Sony, Qantas, Cointreau and MadFish Wines. Movie Extra used to be the primary sponsor of Tropfest Australia, which is now supported by CGU, Holden, Parramatta City Council, Screen Australia, WSU, Parramatta Park and Melrose Park.\n\nThe festival attracts a wide degree of media coverage but it is the casual, grassroots nature of the event, rather than its high profile, which ensures the continued support of its patrons and guests. Notable alumni include filmmakers such as Alister Grierson, Rowan Woods, Clayton Jacobson, Joel Edgerton, Nash Edgerton, Peter Carstairs, Rob Carlton, Sam Worthington, Robert Connolly, Leon Ford, Justin Drape, Tim Bullock and Elissa Down. \n\nTropfest now includes the popular Trop Jr, a short filmmaking competition and festival for youngsters under 16. \n\nOther Tropfest programs include:\n\n\nThe main event from 1993 to 2016 took place in Sydney but live satellite events are also staged in Melbourne, Canberra, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart, Perth and other cities. The event is broadcast live on television by ABC Comedy and webcast to viewers around Australia and the world. In August 2016 it was announced that, beginning in February 2017, the venue would be moved to Parramatta in western Sydney.\n\nTropfest has expanded to locations around the world including Japan, Turkey, Africa, Abu Dhabi, London, Berlin, Toronto, Bangkok, and New York City. The inaugural Tropfest Arabia, encompassing approximately 33 countries throughout the Middle East and North Africa, took place in Abu Dhabi in November 2011. Tropfest launched into the United States in June 2012, with a weekend-long event in Las Vegas and a fully-fledged Tropfest New York competition in New York on 23 June 2012 at Manhattan's Bryant Park. Tropfest New Zealand launched in 2013 and Tropfest South East Asia at Penang, Malaysia in 2014.\n\nIn 2006 there were over 700 entrants and every year 16 finalists are screened in public parks and cafes around Australia. Sydney's annual audience of around 100,000 people attended The Domain to watch the finalists on three large video screens. Over 150,000 people attend Australia-wide.\n\nThe Sydney screening of Tropfest 2006 was abandoned after 13 films due to severe electrical storms. Screenings in other cities were not affected. With the judges located in Sydney it was necessary to announce the winners two days later at a press conference.\n\nEach film must be no longer than seven minutes, have never been shown publicly before and contain the \"Tropfest Signature Item\", which changes each year, to show that the film was made specifically for the festival.\n\nIn April 2007, Tropfest formed a partnership with PBL Media which would see festival content archived and screened across various PBL properties and brands.\n\nFor Tropfest 2009, pay television channel Movie Extra replaced Sony as the naming rights sponsor for the next seven years. A new feature in 2009 was the live national broadcast of Tropfest and screening of the finalist films on the Movie Extra channel.\n\nTropfest Australia 2011 was the largest Tropfest ever staged, and reached a national audience of approximately 1,000,000 people (not including the internet).\n\nPrior to the first full Tropfest New York competition in June 2012, Tropfest held annual New York screenings between 2006 and 2008. Signature items were a manhole cover, a slice, and a sunflower respectively. In November 2011, ahead of the 2012 competition, filmmakers were invited to \"grab a camera, start shooting and tell their story through film\", using the Tropfest NY 2012 Signature Item of \"Bagel\".\n\nOver a weekend in June 2012, The Cosmopolitan in Las Vegas celebrated Tropfest's 20th anniversary, culminating in a screening of the best 16 films from the past two decades in the Tropfest All Star Competition. With judges Toni Collette (President of the Jury), Tobey Maguire, Rebel Wilson, James Woods, Anthony LaPaglia, Trevor Groth and Charles Randolph presiding over the competition, \"The Story of Bubble Boy\", directed by Sean Ascroft, ultimately took out the top prize.\n\nA few weeks later, on 23 June 2012, Tropfest New York had its debut in Bryant Park. Hosted by Hugh Jackman and including musical performances by Alexi Murdoch and Milagres, the festival attracted a crowd of approximately 10,000. Judges Rose Byrne, Judah Friedlander, Jennifer Westfeldt, Scott Foundas and Ted Hope awarded the $20,000 first prize to director Josh Leake for his film \"Emptys\". Tropfest NY 2013 festival was held on 22 June in Brooklyn's Prospect Park, with a bridge as the signature item. In 2014 Tropfest postponed its New York event. The festival has said a 2015 event will be held, using a kiss as the signature item, which was originally announced for 2014.\n\nTropfest has one of the most successful channels on YouTube, having attracted more than 31,000,000 video views for its films in a relatively short time period.\n\nIn February 2013 festival founder John Polson announced a change of date to 8 December and a change of venue from the Domain to Centennial Park. \"We feel like we are changing gears, we are growing every year and Centennial Park is in some ways the emotional heart of Sydney\"\n\nThe winner of the December 2013 festival, \"Bamboozled\", was accused of homophobia and transphobia. It is a comedy in which a man sleeps with a man he believes to be his transitioned ex-girlfriend.\n\nOn 11 November Polson announced that the 2015 Sydney Tropfest had been cancelled. He said \"... I have been made aware that the company contracted to raise the funding and administer the Tropfest event is unable to move forward for financial reasons.\". CEO of Tropfest Festival Productions, Michael Laverty, has been unavailable for comment.\n\nPolsons said he had discovered to his “surprise” Tropfest was facing a financial crisis and could not proceed due to a lack of funds. It emerged the management company Polson had fallen out with over the alleged “mismanagement” of Tropfest funds was managed by Laverty, his long-time Tropfest partner and its managing director.\n\nOver the following days it emerged suppliers and contracted partners of Tropfest have been experiencing payment delays for several months. As of 14 November Laverty was un-contactable for any comments. Commercial entertainment services agency The Intersection, who was retained in 2014 by Tropfest issued a statement on Facebook stating its relationship with Tropfest ended in 2014 over a pay dispute.\n\nAn outpouring of support for Tropfest quickly appeared over social media, including Twitter and Facebook, with calls for generous benefactors, state or federal government support, or crowd-funding.\n\nOn 6 December Polson announced that the Sydney festival would be held in its intended venue, Centennial Park on Sunday, 14 February 2016. CGU Insurance is the source of the necessary extra funding.\n\nEach year, Tropfest requires that entries include a particular \"signature item\" or action to ensure that they are unique and are made specifically for the festival. No TSI was required for the 1993 festival. The following are TSIs by year:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1991672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1991672", "title": "Tsukimi", "text": "Tsukimi\n\nThe tradition dates to the Heian era, and is now so popular in Japan that some people repeat the activities for several evenings following the appearance of the full moon during the eighth lunisolar month.\n\nTsukimi traditions include displaying decorations made from Japanese pampas grass (\"susuki\") and eating rice dumplings called \"Tsukimi dango\" in order to celebrate the beauty of the moon. Seasonal produce are also displayed as offerings to the moon. Sweet potatoes are offered to the full moon, while beans or chestnuts are offered to the waxing moon the following month. The alternate names of the celebrations, \"Imomeigetsu\"　(literally \"potato harvest moon\") and \"Mamemeigetsu\" (\"bean harvest moon\") or \"Kurimeigetsu\" (\"chestnut harvest moon\") are derived from these offerings.\n\nTsukimi refers to the Japanese tradition of holding parties to view the harvest moon. The custom is thought to have originated with Japanese aristocrats during the Heian period, who would gather to recite poetry under the full moon of the eighth month of the solar calendar, known as the \"Mid-Autumn Moon.\" Since ancient times, Japanese people have described the eighth solar month (corresponding to September on the contemporary Gregorian calendar) as the best time for looking at the moon, since the relative positions of the earth, sun, and moon cause the moon to appear especially bright. On the evening of the full moon, it is traditional to gather in a place where the moon can be seen clearly, decorate the scene with Japanese pampas grass, and to serve white rice dumplings (known as \"Tsukimi dango\"), taro, edamame, chestnuts and other seasonal foods, plus sake as offerings to the moon in order to pray for an abundant harvest. These dishes are known collectively as . Due to the ubiquity of sweet potato or taro among these dishes, the tradition is known as or \"Potato harvest moon\" in some parts of Japan.\n\nFrom 862 until 1683, the Japanese calendar was arranged so that the full moon fell on the 13th day of each month. In 1684, however, the calendar was altered so that the new moon fell on the first day of each month, moving the full moon two weeks later, to the 15th day of the month. While some people in Edo (present-day Tokyo) shifted their Tsukimi activities to the 15th day of the month, others continued to observe the festival on the 13th day. Furthermore, there were various regional observances in some parts of Japan on the 17th day of the month, as well as Buddhist observances on the 23rd or the 26th day, all of which were used as pretexts for often late-night parties during the autumn throughout the Edo period. This custom was brought to a swift end during the Meiji period.\n\nFestivals dedicated to the moon have a long history in Japan. During the Heian period elements of the Chinese Mid-Autumn Festival were introduced to Japan. Members of the aristocratic class would hold moon-viewing events aboard boats in order to view the moon's reflection on the surface of the water. The writing of tanka poetry was also an element of such mid-autumn moon viewing festivities.\n\nThere are specific terms in Japanese to refer to occasions when the moon is not visible on the traditional mid-autumn evening, including and . Even when the moon is not visible, however, Tsukimi parties are held. A Unicode emoji exists for Tsukimi, featuring pampas grass, dango and the moon.\n\nIt is traditional to serve Tsukimi dango and seasonal produce offerings during Tsukimi, as described above. In addition, there are several other dishes associated with Tsukimi.\n\nBoiled soba or udon noodles topped with nori and raw egg, then covered with broth are known as \"Tsukimi soba\" or \"Tsukimi udon\". In Kitakyushu an egg served atop yaki udon is known as \"Tenmado\", another name for Tsukimi in the local dialect. Similarly when a raw quail egg is used to top sushi, like battleship sushi gunkanzushi or a handroll temaki it is referred to as tsukimi style. Confectionary, such as Mooncakes, are also enjoyed.\n\nAt some fast food restaurants in Japan a special Fall Menu is offered during September and October featuring fried egg sandwiches known as \"Tsukimi burgers\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57614893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57614893", "title": "Utter Party Massacre", "text": "Utter Party Massacre\n\nThe Utter Party Massacre was an attack by Native Americans on September 9 or 13, 1860, that killed or captured 29 of a group of 44 emigrants on a fork of the Oregon Trail in Washington Territory (modern day Idaho), United States. 10 survivors were found on October 24, 1860, emaciated and eating the disinterred remains of a party member. Historian Charles Henry Carey described the attack as \"more atrocious than any that had preceded it\". It was noted as a \"rare [occasion] when Indians not only attempted but sustained a prolonged assault on encircled emigrant wagons\".\n\nThe incident has been referred to by many names. Some have referred to it by family names of party members, including the Van Ornum party massacre, the Myers massacre, the Utter train massacre, and other variations.\n\nIt has also been referred to by its location, including Salmon Falls Massacre (referring to Salmon Falls on the Snake River) and the Sinker Creek Tragedy.\n\n"}
{"id": "18876199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18876199", "title": "Venetian Theatre", "text": "Venetian Theatre\n\nThe Venetian Theatre is a movie theater, performing arts venue, and restaurant in downtown Hillsboro, Oregon, United States. Formerly the Town Theater, the building re-opened in 2008 after more than a decade of inactivity and revitalization plans. Built in 1888 as a bank, later mayor Orange Phelps converted the property into a theater in 1911 and in 1925 converted it into a two-story Italianate building with a larger auditorium. Prior to renovation the theater was owned by the city of Hillsboro who purchased it from Act III Theatres. The theatre has been temporarily closed since mid-April 2017 in connection with a planned change of ownership. However, that sale fell through, and the theater and restaurant remain closed in August 2017. In late August, its owner told the \"Hillsboro Tribune\" that he had found a new buyer, but it is not known when the Venetian might reopen.\n\nIn 1888, banker John W. Shute built a two-story building on East Main Street as the new home for the First National Bank of Hillsboro. The structure featured a façade in the Italianate style of architecture, external cast iron ornamentation, and a roof line with a bracketed cornice. In 1911, the bank moved across Main Street and later mayor Orange Phelps purchased the building. Although Phelps did not have the money to buy the building, the bank loaned him the funds and he opened The Grand Theater, a 200-seat theater. The wide by long theater was expanded in 1915 to 500 seats and named the Liberty Theater.\n\nIn 1925, a fire destroyed the theater and Phelps rebuilt the structure and named the new theater The Venetian. The first motion picture with sound shown in Hillsboro was \"The Broadway Melody\" in 1929 at the theater. Beginning in 1935 Phelps held an annual free show for children at Christmas which continued into the 1990s. In 1956, a fire gutted the building, with Phelps rebuilding and opening the following year as the 800-plus seat Town Theater. After the fire Phelps had held double features at his Town Theater. In 1961, the theater hosted the premiere of the film \"Ring of Fire\", which had been filmed in Vernonia, Oregon. Phelps owned the theater along with several other theaters in Washington County into the 1970s. Tom Moyer Theaters purchased Phelps’ theaters in 1978 and in turn sold all of that theater chain’s screens to Act III Theatres in 1989. In 1996, Act III closed the theater and sold the building to the city for $1,500.\n\nAfter purchasing the property the city proposed several redevelopment ideas for the building, including selling it to the McMenamins brewpub chain for a theater and pub. In 2001, Hillsboro purchased the adjoining building (home to Music Village at the time) for $160,000 to add to the property to be used for any redevelopment of the theater. The city solicited ideas for the redevelopment of the building in early 2007. While under city ownership the space was briefly used as storage for the Hillsboro Farmers’ Market and faced possible demolition as estimates for the cost to renovate the structure continually increased.\nIn August 2007, the city sold the building to developer Denzil Scheller for $10 and gave him $750,000 to assist in the renovation of the deteriorating building. Scheller spent $2.5 million to renovate the space and bring the building up to modern fire, earthquake, and disability access codes. Of this $2.5 million, around $1.5 million came from his own funds, and the remainder came from city funds along with $250,000 from Metro in the conversion of the space into a theater, meeting space, restaurant, and live event venue. Work included gutting the building to rebuild the support structure, removing asbestos, and opening a wall into the adjacent Music Village building. Local architectural firm Partin and Hill Architects designed the renovations.\n\nScheller renamed the theater as The Venetian, returning to the former name, with the distinct yellow marquee of the Town Theater removed in September 2007. The re-opening of the theater is part of the city’s plan to create a regional arts center in the downtown core and attract more people after 5:00 p.m. when county and city offices close. On July 9, 2008, the new The Venetian Theatre and Bistro opened with the theater portion opening on July 11. In September 2008, Bag & Baggage Productions became the resident theater company at the theater and opened their new season with \"Steel Magnolias\". In October 2010, the renovation of the theater was awarded the Outstanding Achievement in Design award from the Oregon Main Street organization.\n\nIn early 2017, owner Denzil Scheller reported that he had reached a tentative agreement to sell the theater to a buyer who, for now, wished to remain anonymous. The theater would close at the end of the day on April 13, temporarily, while the sale was finalized, to reopen at an unknown date. The theater remained closed as of August 2017, and the \"Hillsboro Tribune\" reported that the planned sale earlier in the year had fallen through, with owner Scheller saying the buyer had \"disappeared\" without explanation just before completing the purchase. In late August, Scheller told the \"Tribune\" that he had found a new buyer, but without revealing any additional details.\n\nLocated in downtown Hillsboro on Main Street between Second and Third avenues, the theater is one block north of the Hillsboro Central MAX light rail station. The space includes a 370-seat theater, and a restaurant with an upstairs balcony. The balcony sits above Main Street and has roll-up windows. On the exterior are decorative terra cotta urns and red colored roof tiles on Main Street. Designed to encourage late night patronage of the downtown area, the theater is a centerpiece of revitalization efforts of that part of Hillsboro.\n\nThe current building is a multi-use facility that includes a theater and restaurant. The theater exhibits movies, presents live performances, is a live music venue, and can be used as meeting space. The casual dining restaurant features a European menu with items including pizza, soup, sandwiches, and hamburgers, all of which can be eaten in the theater.\n\n"}
{"id": "56485808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56485808", "title": "Viking raids in the Rhineland", "text": "Viking raids in the Rhineland\n\nThe Viking raids in the Rhineland were part of a series of invasions of Francia by the Vikings that took place during the final decades of the 9th century. From the Rhineland, which can be regarded as the nucleus of Frankish culture, the Franks had previously conquered almost the whole of Central Europe and established a great empire.\n\nDuring these raids, the Vikings plundered the ancient Roman cities of Cologne, Bonn, Xanten, Trier and also the imperial city of Aachen, in which Charlemagne was buried and on whose throne the Frankish kings were crowned in Aachen Cathedral. In addition to these cities, numerous monasteries were also destroyed, together with entire libraries in which collections of writings from several centuries had been preserved. This shook the essence of Frankish culture.\n\nSimilar raids affected the Scandinavian regions where the Vikings had originally settled: the British Isles, Baltic Sea region, Russia and the Mediterranean region. Many inhabitants of the affected regions were carted off as slaves.\n\nThe term\" Rhineland\" is used to describe areas on the Middle and Lower Rhine that are not defined in more detail. It was not designated as such until 1798, when French Revolutionary troops occupied this territory. Previously, this region was mostly named after towns or counties , for example, the Gelderland, or Land of Cleves (Klever Land).\n\nThe area known today as the Rhineland begins at the confluence of the Moselle and the Rhine and ends at Emmerich, where the Rhine divides into the Lek and the Waal to form a delta. In the east, the Rhineland ends close to the Rhine itself, being bounded by low mountain ranges such as the Siebengebirge or Bergisches Land. To the west its boundary is less well defined, but in general parlance it runs beyond the present state border with the Netherlands, i.e. east of the Meuse. Because the modern state of Rhineland-Palatinate lies south of the Moselle, the low mountain range of the Eifel north of the river is usually seen as belonging to the Rhineland. Areas south of the Moselle, such as the Hunsrück, are also considered to be part of the Rhineland.\n\nThe heartland of the Carolingians lay, for the most part, in territories that were part of the Rhineland. As a result, important sites of Carolingian culture are located here. Of particular note are the city of Aachen, where Charlemagne had his imperial palace or \"Kaiserpfalz\" built, and also the Benedictine abbey in Prüm; the latter mainly because of its \"scriptorium\" and associated library. The old Roman cities of Trier, Cologne, Xanten and Bonn were also located in the Rhineland and were used by the Franks as centres of trading and episcopal seats. In 843 AD, the Frankish Empire was divided into three kingdoms. Most areas of the Rhineland fell into the dominion of Lothair I and were named Lothringen. This was the middle kingdom that ran from the North Sea to the Mediterranean Sea with no border crossings between East and West Francia. After this division of the empire, almost all areas of the former great empire experienced conflicts over power of a civil warlike nature. The Rhineland was also affected by this. When Lothair I died in 855 without an heir to his throne, the power struggles intensified. In 870, following the Treaty of Meersen, the Rhineland was assigned to East Francia. Ten years later, theTreaty of Ribemont specified the boundaries more precisely. The map opposite shows the result.\n\nAfter the defeat of Saxony (772-804) the empire of Charlemagne extended to the mouth of the Elbe and beyond. By this time at the latest, the first contacts with the Vikings who, like the Saxons, worshipped pagan gods, took place.\n\nThese contacts were often warlike in nature. The Frisian islands were affected as well as the Frisian mainland. To ward off the attacks, Charlemagne set up a march on the northern border of his empire, the name of today's state of Denmark being derived from it. Despite the warlike situation on the northern border, many Vikings were used as mercenaries in Frankish campaigns.\n\nThe Vikings were bold raiders, perhaps because of the code of honour they are purported to have had, According to legend, the god of war, Odin, from the Asa line of gods, prepared to fight for the world and its survival. He sent his messengers, the valkyries, to escort the bravest warriors killed in a battle to Valhalla. The warriors who gathered there, called \"Einherjar\", practised the art of warfare during the daytime. In the evening, after their wounds had healed, the army of the dead moved into Odin's hall together, where there was always a filled drinking horn and a good meal. Whether this code of honour existed or not, much of their fighting was, in any case, against civilian populations and weakly defended towns and monasteries.\n\nOne of the first Viking kings to be baptized was Harald Klak who, in 826, became a vassal of King Louis the German at Ingelheim am Rhein and was baptized in Mainz with his wife and son.\n\nDuring this time, the Vikings attacked the Frankish Empire sailing their ships up the big rivers from the North Sea and Atlantic Ocean. Such raids mainly affected areas on the Seine and in modern-day Netherlands and Belgium. Previously, the Vikings had raided England (Lindisfarne, 793) and Ireland (Dublin, 795). In 820, the first major attack by Vikings on the Frankish Empire was recorded, taking place around the mouth of the river Seine, and at the same time other Vikings probably invaded Flanders. In 845, Paris was attacked for the first time with about 700 longships up the Seine. The Parisians bought the raiders off with 7,000 pounds of silver. By 926, thirteen of these payments have been documented in the Frankish Empire. The Elbe estuary and the already fortified city of Hamburg were attacked by Danish warriors in 845.\n\nInitially, the attacks took the form of raids and the Vikings withdrew to their homeland afterwards. In the 860s, they changed tactics and established permanent bases in Francia, from where they coordinated their raids, and sometimes overwintered in their fortified army camps. The Rhineland, the heartland of the Frankish Empire, was little affected by the Vikings at that time.\n\nThe Vikings were not a united people, but a collection of warring tribes; small wars between Viking tribes were frequent, united large-scale attacks were preceded in principle by purposeful diplomatic negotiations. Since the Vikings could only be driven out of the occupied territories at great cost, attempts were occasionally made to involve their leaders in the Empire by means of rich gifts and the granting of fiefdoms. As a rule, these Viking leaders were expected to be baptized beforehand, since the Frankish empire was considered by the Frankish nobility to be a gift from God and so there were no thrones for higher nobles who were unbelievers.\n\nBetween 834 and 863 the Vikings laid waste eight times to the trading post of Dorestad on the Lek river, a town that competed with the Danish town of Haithabu. In 862, Vikings attacked up the Rhine for the first time and plundered Cologne. In 863, the Normans conquered Utrecht and Nijmegen and established permanent winter camps in both towns; Dorestad was razed during the campaign. In 864, the left there on a second campaign into the Lower Rhine territories and ambushed and plundered the city of Xanten which had been founded by the Romans.\n\nThe Franks were not real seafarers - although there were types of ship (e.g. the Utrecht ship) which, in good weather, were suitable for coastal navigation. However, since no wrecks of such boats have been found in the North Sea to date, their use for coastal navigation must be assumed to be rare. There were different construction methods for boats. Some were made of large, hollowed out, tree-trunks; others were more like rafts. Both types were difficult to manoeuvre and were used for transporting heavy goods such as rocks. The quarries were often ruined Roman buildings near the Rhine, but there were also quarries in the neighbouring mountain ranges. These boats floated down the river with the current or were hauled upriver as barges pulled by horses or oxen, a technique known as \"treideln\".\n\nThe main building material in the Frankish Empire was wood. Logs were tied together and rafted downriver to the markets, and other commodities and travellers were transported on rafts which, in some cases, were very long and wide.\n\nWhen the Vikings settled on the banks of the Rhine delta, they had a competitive advantage as traders, because their outstanding shipbuilding technology enabled them to overcome strong[currents]] like those of the Rhine, so they were able to ship goods quickly. As a result, trade in the Rhineland flourished. Since Vikings had also settled in Ireland, England and Russia at the same time, trade goods expanded to include products from and beyond the more distant regions.\n\nThe situation changed when the so-called Great Heathen Army suffered a severe defeat in 878 at Edington in southwest England at the hands of King Alfred the Great (reigned 871-899) and his army suffered a severe defeat. The defeated Vikings then set off for continental Europe and transferred their theatre of war to the coastal region of the English Channel, Northern France and Flanders. On 3 August 881, the West Francian king Louis III with his army also won victory over the Normans at Saucourt-en-Vimeu in central France.\n\nThe Vikings then turned their aggression eastwards towards the Rhineland. Charles III was residing in Italy at this time because of his imperial coronation which had taken place on 12 February 881 in Rome. For the celebrations he was accompanied by numerous armoured knights; thus many of his best armed warriors were not available to defend their homeland in the winter of 881.\n\nDespite the invasion of West Francia by the Great Army in 878, no defensive measures had apparently been taken in East Francian Rhineland, since the city walls of individual cities were only reinforced when the Vikings were almost at the city gates. Thus, because of the imperial coronation of Charles III in Rome, the population of the Rhine was almost defenceless and at the mercy of the Vikings' attack, and fleeing was the best course of action to save lives and goods. As a result, the Vikings often captured entire towns, villages and monasteries without fighting.\n\nIn late 881, Vikings, who had overwintered in Flanders, set off on a military expedition to neighbouring lands. They raided numerous villages in the area of the Meuse and razed the towns of Liège, Maastricht and Tongeren to the ground.\n\nIn December 881, Vikings of this group sailed on at least three ships under their leader, Godfrid, up the Rhine. As they went, they plundered villages and towns or extorted money from their inhabitants (\"Brandschatzung\").\n\nParticularly affected were the cities of Cologne, Bonn, Neuss, Jülich and Andernach. On their first visit to Cologne in January 882, after tough negotiations, Cologne paid a fortune in silver for their withdrawal (see also Danegeld). On their return journey, the same group again demanded payment of a sum of money, which the destitute citizens of Cologne could not afford, whereupon the city was burned to the ground.\n\nThe Normans, presumably from Denmark, probably also carried horses on their Viking ships. In any case, they were very mobile, something that was aided by being able to utilise the old Roman roads of the Rhineland on the left bank of the Rhine. The Vikings turned westwards following this road system and plundered towns from Zülpich to Aachen.\n\nWhen they had stormed the imperial city, the conquerors, presumably with calculated, strategic intent, desecrated St. Mary's Church (now the cathedral), the tomb of Charlemagne and the royal stables. After committing these outrages, they set the palace and the imperial baths on fire. In late December 881, they plundered the imperial abbey of Kornelimünster, not far from Aachen, as well as the monasteries of Stablo and Malmedy in the Ardennes.\n\nOn 6 January 882, Three Kings' Day, a detachment of Vikings which, according to historical reports, was about 300 strong, attacked the largest Frankish abbey, Prüm in the Eifel mountains. In the abbey church was the grave of Emperor Lothair I who died there in 855 after concluding the Treaty of Prüm. Attached to the monastery was a hospital and an important monastic school in which the offspring of the Frankish nobility were educated. The Abbey also housed one of the most extensive libraries in the Empire with its \"scriptorium\". Apart from Aachen, Prüm was the cultural centre of the Frankish Empire. The abbey had extensive estates; more than a hundred churches were under its administration; its lands extended far into the present-day Netherlands, and the forests along the Moselle also belonged to the monastery.\n\nA band of peasants from the area resisted the attackers, but were massacred. As a result, the Vikings set all the buildings of the monastery on fire. The abbey burned down to the ground, \"since there was no one left alive to fight the fire\". Among the monastery's greatest treasures was one of the most precious relics of Western Christianity, the Sandals of Christ, which were carried to safety before the Viking onslaught. Of the manuscript collection, however, which was often praised by chroniclers before, only about one tenth of the collection was able to be rescued in front of the marauding Vikings; the rest perished in the flames.\n\nThe King of East Francia, Louis III raised an army and rushed to help the Rhinelanders. On 20 January, the king died unexpectedly in Frankfurt, whereupon the army he led against the Vikings was disbanded. The Vikings then moved further up the Rhine. In the course of February and March 882 they attacked as far as Koblenz, pillaging and murdering, but the city was able to resist them thanks to strong fortifications dating back to Roman times. However, the lands outside its walls were devastated. At the same time, in Mainz, the dilapidated Roman walls were quickly fortified again and the citizens of Mainz began to dig a ditch around the city. The Vikings, however, did not move from Koblenz to Mainz, but sailed up the Moselle and reached the Trier countryside during Easter week.\n\nIn Easter Week, 882, the Nordic raiders attacked and destroyed the monasteries, churches and farmsteads outside the city walls of Trier. The imperial monastery of St. Maximin and the abbeys of and St. Symphorian, north of the ancient city wall, were destroyed; the latter never being rebuilt. The monastery of St. Paulinus was spared.\n\nOn Maundy Thursday, 5 April, 882, the Vikings captured the city itself. After a few days of rest, they plundered Trier on Easter Sunday. Among their targets was Trier Cathedral. Regino of Prüm records numerous victims among the population, but Archbishop Bertulf of Trier managed to escape to Metz with a few of his followers. Afterwards, some of the Vikings went down the Moselle with their booty to Koblenz, while the rest marched on Metz.\n\nThe Vikings advancing to Metz were met on 11 April 882 by an army led by the Bishop of Metz, Wala, the Archbishop of Trier, Bertulf, and Count Adalhard II of Metz in the Battle of Remich. The battle was won by the invaders and Bishop Wala fell on the battlefield, alongside many armoured knights and peasants. However, their violent resistance and resultant Viking casualties caused the invaders to turn back, and they retreated north through the Eifel towards their army encampment.\n\nAfter his return from Italy, Emperor Charles III held an Imperial Diet at Worms in May 882, and raised a large army, in which Franks, Bavarians, Swabians, Thuringians, Saxons, Frisians and Lombards participated. The army marched up before the fortified Viking camp named in one source as \"Ascloha\" (Asselt in the \"Annales Fuldenses\", 882). Another contemporary source, however, refers to \"Haslon\" as the place of negotiation, which is often equated with Elsloo an der Maas (Regino of Prüm, \"Chronica\", 882, specifically mentioned in the entry for the year 881).\n\nCharles III besieged the Normans with his army at a safe distance and, after twelve days, began negotiations with thems. The result was a withdrawal of the invaders who were also paid from the church's goods. On the condition that the Viking leader Godfrid was baptised, he was given Frisia as a fief. The peace agreement was additionally sealed by his wedding to a Frankish princess. The princess, Gisla (Gisela) is said to be a daughter of King Lothair II. The Vikings left behind under the leadership of Sigfrid in Ascloha were initially discouraged from further pillaging by payments of money.\n\nAs early as summer 882, Godfrid returned to the Rhineland with an army reinforced from his homeland for a second raid and devastated Cologne, Bonn and Andernach. Around Andernach, many churches and monasteries were looted and set alight.\n\nZutphen on the River IJssel and nearby Deventer were also torched during this rampage. Near Mainz, the Vikings were defeated by an army under Count Henry of Babenberg and the Archbishop of Mainz, Liutbert. (episcopate 863-889); they probably set fire to Cologne afterwards.\n\nThe news of Godfrid's successes in the Rhineland and his acquisition of Frisia attracted other Vikings from Denmark. In autumn 883 they landed in Frisia, rowed up the Rhine with Godfrid's consent and set up camp near Duisburg. Once again, they devastated numerous villages that had just been rebuilt. The people of Cologne had previously strengthened their walls and were spared this time. When the Vikings passed by, Cologne's churches and monasteries were still charred ruins.\n\nThat year, the Vikings withdrew from the Middle Rhine and settled permanently on the Lower Rhine. They occupied Xanten and Duisburg and made small raids from there into the surrounding area, especially the region of Xanten and the Ruhrgebiet.\n\nIn 884, a body of troops led by Count Henry of Babenberg succeeded in recapturing Duisburg, and the Vikings withdrew from the rest of the Lower Rhine region in return for more payments.\n\n"}
{"id": "3159326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3159326", "title": "We begin bombing in five minutes", "text": "We begin bombing in five minutes\n\n\"We begin bombing in five minutes\" is the last sentence of a controversial, off-the-record joke made by US President Ronald Reagan in 1984, during the \"second Cold War\".\n\nWhile preparing for a scheduled radio address from his vacation home in California, President Reagan joked with those present about illegalizing and bombing the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic. This joke was not broadcast live, but was recorded and later leaked to the public. After some brief military confusion, the Soviet Union denounced the president's joke, as did Reagan's then-opponent in the 1984 US presidential election, Walter Mondale. Reagan's impromptu comments have had significant staying power, being referenced, cited, and used as literary inspiration .\n\nLive at 9:06a.m. on August 11, 1984, US President Ronald Reagan made his weekly radio address from Rancho del Cielo—his vacation home near Santa Barbara, California. The actual address begins with the president announcing his signature on the Equal Access Act, a key plank in his reelection campaign: \"My fellow Americans: I'm pleased to tell you that today I signed legislation that will allow student religious groups to begin enjoying a right they've too long been denied—the freedom to meet in public high schools during nonschool hours, just as other student groups are allowed to do.\"\n\nIt was prior to the speech itself though, while the president was joking with the National Public Radio audio engineers during soundcheck, that he riffed on his own speech saying, \"My fellow Americans, I'm pleased to tell you today that I've signed legislation that will outlaw Russia forever. We begin bombing in five minutes.\" This sort of jovial pithiness wasn't uncommon for the Ronald Reagan; he was known to interject soundchecks, outtakes, and downtime with his humor to raise others' spirits—in both show business and politics.\n\nIn the minutes before the president gave his speech, a live feed from Rancho del Cielo was still being transmitted to radio stations around the United States. Many rebroadcasters were already recording the feed, and therefore the president's pre-speech joke, to be ready for the official transmission. While many in the media heard the president's impromptu remarks as he gave them, they were not broadcast live.\n\nIn October 1982, President Reagan had made similarly impolitic remarks about the Polish People's Republic. As he prepared to announce his cancellation of Poland's most favoured nation status (in retaliation for supression of the Polish trade union Solidarity), Reagan called the military government \"a bunch of no-good, lousy bums.\" These recorded comments were aired by \"NCB\". As a result of this leak, members of the White House Correspondents' Association agreed not to publish such unprepared, off-the-record presidential remarks in the future.\nBoth CBS News and Cable News Network recorded the 1984 joke, but kept the president's remarks under wraps in accordance with the White House agreement. Gannett News Service \"eventually published\" the remarks. Then-White House Press Secretary Larry Speakes declined to comment on August 13, saying, \"I don’t talk about off-the-record stuff.\"\n\nThe recording of Reagan's joke leaked by August 14, when it became world news. On August 15, someone who the National Security Agency described to US Representative Michael D. Barnes as \"a wayward operator in the Soviet Far Eastern command\", sent a coded message from Vladivostok that said, in part, \"We now embark on military action against the U.S. forces.\"  Japanese and US intelligence decoded the message and raised the alert state in that part of the world; Soviet naval vessels in the North Pacific, on the other hand, contacted Vladivostok in confusion. The US never saw any evidence of Soviet attack preparations, and the alert status as promulgated by Vladivostok was canceled within 30 minutes.\n\nInitially, on August 13, the deputy minister of Soviet foreign affairs (Valentin Kamenev) told reporters that, \"I have nothing to say.\" By the next day, though, President Reagan's leaked comments were denounced by the Soviet government, \"Pravda\", \"Izvestia\", and TASS as \"unprecedentedly hostile\", evidencing the United States' insincerety at trying to improve Soviet Union–United States relations, and abuse of the office of the president. \"Western diplomats\" described the Soviet response as over-the-top in an effort to give themselves more collateral at the negotiating table with the US. US officials were compelled to mollify the Soviet Union and assure the United States' Cold War adversary that \"Reagan’s offhand remark did not reflect White House policies or U.S. military intentions.\"\n\nReagan's poll numbers took a hit from the political gaffe, temporarily raising the hopes of Walter Mondale-supporters in the run-up to the 1984 US presidential election. Mondale said of Reagan's joke, \"A President has to be very, very careful with his words.\" Under the analysis of historian Craig Shirley and \"Ozy\" author Sean Braswell, the leak of Reagan's joke was poorly utilized by the Democratic Party; \"[criticism of the joke] actually worked against the Democrats and for Reagan […] as they came across as hypersensitive, and Reagan as calm, cool and collected.\"\n\nThough pessimistically considered just humor in poor taste, the private joke had public staying power due to Soviet–Western relations during the \"second Cold War\". In 2011, the \"Deseret News\" enumerated Reagan's microphone gaffe as his sixth-best quote, noting the unbelievablility of its leakage only 87 days before the election.\n\n"}
{"id": "49099925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49099925", "title": "West Cork Chamber Music Festival", "text": "West Cork Chamber Music Festival\n\nThe West Cork Chamber Music Festival is a music festival, established in 1995, that takes place in the town of Bantry, Ireland, usually in July. \n\nPerformers at the festival have included the RTÉ Vanbrugh Quartet, Barry Douglas, Ruby Hughes, Nicola Benedetti, Tanja Becker-Bender and Natalie Clein and works have included some by contemporary composers, such as Thomas Larcher and Mathias Hinke. \n\nThe performances take place at venues around the town, including Bantry House and St Brendan's Church. The central performance venue is Bantry House, where the drawing room, with a capacity of approximately 50 seats, is used for some concerts.\n\nAlongside the performances the festival includes violin and bow making, master classes and a composition competition whose past winners include Harry Whalley, Sebastian Adams and Solfa Carlisle. \n\nThe festival runs a composition competition for young composers born or resident of Ireland under the age of 35.\n"}
{"id": "1254144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1254144", "title": "Witch of November", "text": "Witch of November\n\nThe Witch of November, or November Witch, refers to the strong winds that frequently blow across the Great Lakes in autumn. The \"witches\" are caused by intense low atmospheric pressure over the Great Lakes pulling cold Canadian/Arctic air from the north or northwest and warm Gulf air from the south. When these cold and warm air masses collide, they can result in hurricane force winds that stir up large waves on the lakes.\n\nGordon Lightfoot's song \"The Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald\" makes reference to the Witch of November: the storm that wrecked the \"Edmund Fitzgerald\" was 978 mbar, equivalent to a borderline Category 1/2 hurricane. Similar witches have caused numerous shipwrecks over the years. Another storm that hit in November 1998 was 967 mbar, equivalent to a solid Category 2 hurricane. A still stronger storm, of October 2010, brought Minnesota and Wisconsin record low barometric pressures of, respectively, 954.96 and 961.06 mbar (both equivalent to a category 3 hurricane on the Saffir-Simpson scale) and lashed Duluth with 81 mph wind gusts and 19-foot seas during the night of October 26–27, 2010.\n\n"}
