{"id": "38290547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38290547", "title": "2013 in politics", "text": "2013 in politics\n\nThese are some of the notable events relating to politics in 2013.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2330138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2330138", "title": "Agricultural cooperative", "text": "Agricultural cooperative\n\nAn agricultural cooperative, also known as a farmers' co-op, is a cooperative where farmers pool their resources in certain areas of activity.\nA broad typology of agricultural cooperatives distinguishes between 'agricultural service cooperatives', which provide various services to their individually farming members, and 'agricultural production cooperatives', where production resources (land, machinery) are pooled and members farm jointly. Examples of agricultural production cooperatives include collective farms in former socialist countries, the kibbutzim in Israel, collectively governed community shared agriculture, Longo Mai co-operatives and Nicaraguan production co-operatives.\n\nThe default meaning of 'agricultural cooperative' in English is usually an agricultural 'service' cooperative, which is the numerically dominant form in the world. There are two primary types of agricultural service cooperatives, 'supply cooperative' and 'marketing cooperative'. Supply cooperatives supply their members with inputs for agricultural production, including seeds, fertilizers, fuel, and machinery services. Marketing cooperatives are established by farmers to undertake transportation, packaging, distribution, and marketing of farm products (both crop and livestock). Farmers also widely rely on credit cooperatives as a source of financing for both working capital and investments.\n\nCooperatives as a form of business organization are distinct from the more common investor-owned firms (IOFs). Both are organized as corporations, but IOFs pursue profit maximization objectives, whereas cooperatives strive to maximize the benefits they generate for their members (which usually involves zero-profit operation). Agricultural cooperatives are therefore created in situations where farmers cannot obtain essential services from IOFs (because the provision of these services is judged to be unprofitable by the IOFs), or when IOFs provide the services at disadvantageous terms to the farmers (i.e., the services are available, but the profit-motivated prices are too high for the farmers). The former situations are characterized in economic theory as market failure or missing services motive. The latter drive the creation of cooperatives as a competitive yardstick or as a means of allowing farmers to build countervailing market power to oppose the IOFs. The concept of competitive yardstick implies that farmers, faced with unsatisfactory performance by IOFs, may form a cooperative firm whose purpose is to force the IOFs, through competition, to improve their service to farmers.\n\nA practical motivation for the creation of agricultural cooperatives is related to the ability of farmers to pool production and/or resources. In many situations within agriculture, it is simply too expensive for farmers to manufacture products or undertake a service. Cooperatives provide a method for farmers to join together in an 'association', through which a group of farmers can acquire a better outcome, typically financial, than by going alone. This approach is aligned to the concept of economies of scale and can also be related as a form of economic synergy, where \"two or more agents working together to produce a result not obtainable by any of the agents independently\". While it may seem reasonable to conclude that larger the cooperative the better, this is not necessarily true. Cooperatives exist across a broad membership base, with some cooperatives having fewer than 20 members while others can have over 10,000.\n\nWhile the economic benefits are a strong driver in forming cooperatives, it is not the sole consideration. In fact, it is possible for the economic benefits from a cooperative to be replicated in other organisational forms, such as an IOF. An important strength of a cooperative for the farmer is that they retain the governance of the association, thereby ensuring they have ultimate ownership and control. This ensures that the profit reimbursement (either through the dividend payout or rebate) is shared only amongst the farmer members, rather than shareholders as in an IOF.\n\nIn agriculture, there are broadly three types of cooperatives: a machinery pool, a manufacturing/marketing cooperative, and a credit union.\n\n\nThe first agricultural cooperatives were created in Europe in the seventeenth century in the Military Frontier, where the wives and children of the border guards lived together in organized agricultural cooperatives next to a funfair and a public bath.\n\nThe first civil agricultural cooperatives were created also in Europe in the second half of the nineteenth century. They spread later to North America and the other continents. They have become one of the tools of agricultural development in emerging countries.\nFarmers also cooperated to form mutual farm insurance societies.\n\nAlso related are rural credit unions.\nThey were created in the same periods, with the initial purpose of offering farm loans.\nSome became universal banks such as Crédit Agricole or Rabobank.\n\nAgricultural supply cooperatives aggregate purchases, storage, and distribution of farm inputs for their members. By taking advantage of volume discounts and utilizing other economies of scale, supply cooperatives bring down the cost of the inputs that the members purchase from the cooperative compared with direct purchases from commercial suppliers. Supply cooperatives provide inputs required for agricultural production including seeds, fertilizers, chemicals, fuel, and farm machinery. Some supply cooperatives operate machinery pools that provide mechanical field services (e.g., plowing, harvesting) to their members.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAgricultural marketing cooperatives are cooperative businesses owned by farmers, to undertake transformation, packaging, distribution, and marketing of farm products (both crop and livestock.)\n\nNew Zealand has a strong history of agricultural cooperatives, dating back to the late 19th century. The first was the small Otago Peninsula Co-operative Cheese Factory Co. Ltd, started in 1871 at Highcliff on the Otago Peninsula. With active support by the New Zealand government, and small cooperatives being suitable in isolated areas, cooperatives quickly began to dominate the industry. By 1905, dairy cooperatives were the main organisational structure in the industry. In the 1920s–'30s, there were around 500 co-operative dairy companies compared to less than 70 that were privately owned.\n\nHowever, after World War II, with the advent of improved transportation, processing technologies and energy systems, a trend to merge dairy cooperatives occurred. By the late 1990s, there were two major cooperatives: the Waikato-based New Zealand Dairy Group and the Taranaki-based Kiwi Co-operative Dairies. In 2001 these two cooperatives, together with the New Zealand Dairy Board, merged to form Fonterra. This mega-merger was supported by the New Zealand Government as part of broader dairy industry deregulation, which allowed other companies to directly export dairy products. Two smaller cooperatives did not join Fonterra, preferring to remain independent – the Morrinsville-based Tatua Dairy Company and Westland Milk Products on the West Coast of the South Island.\n\nThe other main agricultural co-operatives in New Zealand are in the meat and fertiliser industries. The meat industry, which has struggled at times, has proposed various mergers similar to the creation of Fonterra; however, these have failed to gain the necessary member support.\n\nIn Canada, the most important cooperatives of this kind were the wheat pools. These farmer-owned cooperatives bought and transported grain throughout Western Canada. They replaced the earlier privately and often foreign-owned grain buyers and came to dominate the market in the post-war period. By the 1990s, most had demutualized (privatized), and several mergers occurred. Now all the former wheat pools are part of the Viterra corporation.\n\nFormer wheat pools include:\n\nOther agricultural marketing cooperatives in Canada include:\n\nThe Amazon region of Ecuador is known for producing world-renowned cacao beans. In the Napo region 850 Kichwa families have come together with help from American biologist, Judy Logback, to form an agricultural marketing cooperatives, Kallari Association. This cooperative has helped increase benefits for the families involved as well as to protect and defend their Kichwa culture and the Amazon rainforest.\n\nIn India, there are networks of cooperatives at the local,regional,state and national levels that assist in agricultural\nmarketing.The commodities that are mostly handled are food grains, jute, cotton, sugar, milk and nuts \n\nDairy farming based on the Anand Pattern, with a single marketing cooperative, is India's largest self-sustaining industry and its largest rural employment provider.Successful implementation of the Anand model has made India the world's largest milk producer. Here small, marginal farmers with a couple or so heads of milch cattle queue up twice daily to pour milk from their small containers into the village union collection points.The milk after processing at the district unions is then marketed by the state cooperative federation nationally under the Amul brand name,India's largest food brand. With the Anand pattern three-fourth of the price paid by the mainly urban consumers goes into the hands of millions of small dairy farmers, who are the owners of the brand and the cooperative.The cooperative hires professionals for their expertise and skills and uses hi-tech research labs and modern processing plants & transport cold-chains, to ensure quality of their produce and value-add to the milk. \n\nProduction of sugar from Sugarcane mostly takes place at Cooperative Sugar cane mills owned by local Farmers The Shareholders include all farmers, small and large, supplying sugarcane to the mill. Over the last sixty years, the local sugar mills have played a crucial part in encouraging rural political participation and as a stepping stone for aspiring politicians. This is particularly true in the state of Maharashtra where a large number of politicians belonging to the Congress party or NCP had ties to sugar cooperatives from their respective local areas. Unfortunately, mismanagement and manipulation of the cooperative principles has made a number of these operations inefficient.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese are cooperative farms, jointly owned or managed by a cooperative society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "427786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427786", "title": "Alliance for Green Socialism", "text": "Alliance for Green Socialism\n\nThe Alliance for Green Socialism (AGS) is a socialist and environmentalist political grouping operating across Britain (although its most active membership is in West Yorkshire, particularly in the City of Leeds). Its first annual conference was in 2003 following the 2002 merger of the Leeds Left Alliance (formed by Mike Davies, Celia Foote, Garth Frankland and other former members of the Labour Party) and the Green Socialist Network (whose origins lay in the former Communist Party of Great Britain). The Leeds Left Alliance had previously been involved in the former Socialist Alliance and a small number of AGS members remained involved in it until it was dissolved by the SWP (who had effectively taken it over) in February 2005. The AGS has sponsored various attempts by one of its affiliate organisations (Rugby Red Green Alliance) and the Socialist Alliance Democracy Platform to re-form the Socialist Alliance from 2005 onwards but this has had little success and the AGS concluded in 2011 that such efforts were no longer politically productive (although the AGS still actively supports the idea of a broader Socialist/Environmentalist political alliance).\n\nThe AGS describes itself as an alliance rather than as a party. This is seen as significant by some AGS members because the AGS contains people from a variety of trends, traditions and ideological backgrounds who have all agreed to work together in a single organisation whilst retaining the right to disagree on some issues. Many of the AGS members come from former political parties which had a democratic centralist tradition while others were formerly in the Labour Party or in no party at all. To argue out every issue on which differences existed to the point where a majority decision was reached which was then binding on all members might lead to many comrades leaving. The current arrangement recognises that the AGS is open to people from various leftist and environmentalist positions – as long as they agree on the basic principles on which the AGS was founded.\n\nThe AGS stood candidates in its own name in the Yorkshire and the Humber constituency in the 2004 European Election, coming last with 0.9% of the votes cast. It later contested the 2005 UK general election under its own name and in association with other leftist parties in the Socialist Green Unity Coalition, standing candidates in Yorkshire, London and Brighton. The AGS also stood candidates under its own name in the 2010, 2015 and 2017 General Elections.\n\nIn 2009, the AGS joined the No2EU – Yes to Democracy election campaign for the European elections and three AGS members stood as candidates in Yorkshire & Humberside. However, following the election, the failure of the RMT union to commit itself to a successor organisation to this campaign (whose name was disliked by most AGS members as it implied an anti-European stance which they do not hold) and its transformation into a new organisation (Trade Unionist and Socialist Coalition) which is politically and organisationally dominated by the Socialist Party, has led the AGS to withdraw from this group.\n\nThe Green Socialist Network (GSN) was a socialist environmentalist political grouping whose origins go back to the Communist Party of Great Britain (CPGB). When the CPGB was wound up in 1991 a number of its members (and the assets of the party) transferred to a new organisation called the Democratic Left led by former CPGB General Secretary Nina Temple. However, the Democratic Left failed to live up to the expectations of a number of its comrades (particularly those who had spent many years in the CPGB and who still adhered to a Marxist political position) and a split occurred, which led to many of these comrades—especially in the London area—leaving the Democratic Left and establishing the GSN. These included Dave Cook, former National Organiser of the party.\n\nThe GSN was not merely a socialist grouping as its members accepted that the old Soviet style system of industrialised state socialism had failed in many respects. The GSN adopted a programme entitled \"Towards Green Socialism\", which proposed linking socialism with environmental sustainability and which argued that these two developments were both essential for human survival and development and that each required the other.\n\nThe GSN Programme \"Towards Green Socialism\" has been largely incorporated into AGS policy documents but is still available on request from the AGS, Freepost NEA 5794, Leeds LS7 3YY. E-mail requests to info@greensocialst.org.uk or via the website at\n\nIn 2002 GSN members voted to merge with the Leeds-based Left Alliance (a grouping of primarily ex-Labour Party members in Yorkshire who had left, or been expelled from, New Labour) and some independent Green Leftists to form the Alliance for Green Socialism (AGS). The GSN programme \"Towards Green Socialism\" was adopted as the basis for the AGS's political programme and remains so.\n\nThe GSN membership was largely in London and the South East and former GSN members make up the majority of the AGS London membership. Two former GSN members became National Officers of the AGS and several others became founder members of the AGS National Committee.\n\nThe alliance's first and founding annual conference was held in 2003, after the members of the Leeds Left Alliance and the Green Socialist Network had both voted to approve the merger the previous year and had already formed a combined National Committee.\n\nThe first general election the alliance contested was the 2005 general election. However, in 2004 it had contested both the local elections the European elections, securing 13,776 but no seats in the European election. The AGS has continued to contest every general election.\n\nDuring the 2009 European elections the party campaigned as part of the No2EU alliance which combined many minor parties on the left-side of politics to campaign against the perceived 'pro-capitalist' and anti-democratic aspects of the European Union. The alliance secured 153,236 votes, but no seats. However, the No2EU alliance was not consolidated into a new, broad political grouping after the election and the AGS did not wish to remain involved in a group which was increasingly seen as merely anti-European, which they are not.\n\nThe AGS publishes full manifestos that cover every policy area. Proposed economic policies include further control over banking and greater job security for workers. Environmental policies include committing Britain to an 80% reduction in its carbon emissions by 2050. The alliance is also committed to nationalisation of all National Health Service (NHS) services and utility and transport services. Other notable policies include electing the House of Lords, abolishing the monarchy and decriminalisation of cannabis. However, because the AGS is an alliance rather than a party, members are allowed to differ on certain policies.\n\nThere are four prices available for full membership: £30 for highest income, £18 for lower income and £7 for Pensioners and those with \"negligible\" income as well as £7 for students. This makes the AGS one of the cheapest political parties in the UK. Membership also entitles the member to the quarterly journal \"Green Socialist\" and a newsletter.\n\nThe journal of the AGS is \"Green Socialist\" magazine, published quarterly. The AGS also publishes a members' bulletin which goes out five or six times a year. Additionally, pamphlets are published on specific topics (e.g. civil liberties) and the AGS election manifesto is published as a booklet available from the national officers or downloadable from their website.\n\nIn its financial statement to the Electoral Commission in 2008 the alliance quoted an income of £12,522 and expenditure of £8,356.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "528623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528623", "title": "Anti-Germans (political current)", "text": "Anti-Germans (political current)\n\nAnti-German () is the generic name applied to a variety of theoretical and political tendencies within the radical left mainly in Germany and Austria. In 2006 \"Deutsche Welle\" estimated the number of anti-Germans at between 500 and 3,000.\n\nThe basic standpoint of the anti-Germans includes opposition to German nationalism, a critique of mainstream left anti-capitalist views, which are thought to be simplistic and structurally anti-Semitic, and a critique of anti-Semitism, which is considered to be deeply rooted in German cultural history. As a result of this analysis of anti-semitism, support for Israel and opposition to Anti-Zionism is a primary unifying factor of the anti-German movement. The critical theory of Theodor Adorno and Max Horkheimer is often cited by anti-German theorists.\n\nThe term does not generally refer to any one specific radical left tendency, but rather a wide variety of distinct currents, ranging from the so-called \"hardcore\" anti-Germans such as the quarterly journal \"Bahamas\" to \"softcore\" anti-Germans such as the radical left journal \"Phase 2\". Some anti-German ideas have also exerted an influence on the broader radical leftist milieu, such as the monthly magazine \"konkret\" and the weekly newspaper \"Jungle World\".\n\nThe first stirrings of the emergence of the anti-Germans can be traced back to the dissolution process of the Communist League (\"Kommunistischer Bund\", KB), a Marxist-Leninist political organization primarily active in Hamburg and Northern Germany. The KB distinguished itself from other extra-parliamentary groups through a decidedly pessimistic analysis with regard to the potential for revolutionary change in Germany. Known as the \"Fascisation\" analysis, this theory held that due to the particularity of German history and development, the endemic crisis of capitalism would lead to a move towards the Right and to a new Fascism.\n\nThe rapid process of collapse of the German Democratic Republic and the looming reunification of Germany led to an internal crisis within the KB and the development of irreconcilable perspectives within the organization. The majority tendency argued that with the collapse of the GDR, questions of social justice in connection with the restoration of capitalism in the former GDR should constitute the center of political work, and this tendency accordingly sought cooperation with the Party of Democratic Socialism (PDS). There also emerged a minority tendency which argued for a position of fundamental opposition to the restoration of a unified German nation-state, essentially representing a radicalized version of the Fascisation thesis, arguing that the coming period was one of reaction, and advocating a perspective of opposition against German nationalism, racism, anti-semitism, historical revisionism and a revival of German great power politics. It is said that during an internal debate, representatives of the majority tendency said that the minority current, due to its bleak analysis and unwavering pessimism, \"might as well just emigrate to the Bahamas.\" The minority tendency, in an ironic gesture, thus named their discussion organ \"Bahamas\". The phrase \"Nie wieder Deutschland\" (\"Germany, Never Again\"), which became a central anti-German slogan, originated in demonstrations against reunification.\n\nIn its first few years of existence, the journal \"Bahamas\" served as a pluralistic journal for a variety of currents of the radical left united by a common opposition to German nationalism, racism, and anti-semitism, as well as against apologetic currents within the left which sought to relativize such issues. Gradually, this diversity of perspectives gave way to a tendency oriented towards a Freiburger organization known as the \"\" (\"Initiative Sozialistisches Forum\"), a radical left formation mixing elements of council communism and elements of Critical Theory, particular Theodor W. Adorno and the Frankfurt School. At around the time of this shift in perspective, many of the former KB members left the editorial circle of the journal. In 2007 \"Haaretz\" described \"Bahamas\" as \"the leading publication of the hardcore pro-Israel, anti-German communist movement.\"\n\nThe notion of a revival of German nationalism and racism as a result of the reunification seemed to confirm itself over the course of the 1990s, as shown by such events as the Rostock-Lichtenhagen riots and a murderous attack on a Turkish family in the West German town of Solingen. Amid this wave of anti-immigrant violence, the German political establishment increased repression against immigrants, tightening of Germany's hitherto liberal asylum laws.\n\nThroughout the 1990s, elements of the anti-German critique of the German mainstream society found their way into the broader left, especially the then-popular Antifa movement, which was the dominant organizational expression of radical leftist youth politics in the 1990s.\n\nIn 1995, the fiftieth anniversary of the bombing of Dresden, anti-Germans praised the bombing on the grounds that so many of the city's civilians had supported Nazism. Kyle James points to this as an example of a shift towards support for the United States that became more pronounced after 9/11. Similar demonstrations are annually held, the slogans “Bomber Harris, do it again!” and “Deutsche Täter sind keine Opfer!” (“German perpetrators are no victims!”) have become common.\n\nThe 1999 NATO bombing of Yugoslavia was also a focus of opposition for the anti-Germans, as for most of the radical left. Many anti-Germans condemned the war as a repetition of the political constellation of forces during the Second World War, with the Serbs in the role of victim of German imperialism. Some anti-Germans thus issued a call for \"unconditional\" support for the regime of Slobodan Milošević. The reasons the German government gave to legitimize the war - from an anti-German perspective - marked a turning point in the discourse of governmental history-policy. The war was not justified \"despite but because of Auschwitz\". This judgment is often combined with the analysis of the genesis of a new national self as the \"Aufarbeitungsweltmeister\" or \"Weltmeister der Vergangenheitsbewältigung\" (world champion in dealing with and mastering one's own past evil deeds).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20892901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20892901", "title": "Bangladeshi military rule referendum, 1985", "text": "Bangladeshi military rule referendum, 1985\n\nA referendum on military rule was held in Bangladesh on 21 March 1985 in order to confirm the military rule of Hussain Mohammed Ershad, the Army Chief of Staff who had seized power in 1982. The referendum asked voters \"Do you support the policies of President Ershad, and do you want him to continue to run this administration until a civilian government is formed through elections?\"\n\nThe result saw 94.5% vote in favour, with a turnout of 72.2%. The opposition organised a general strike on the day of the referendum, and alleged that the results were fraudulent.\n"}
{"id": "34411510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34411510", "title": "Bettina, Texas", "text": "Bettina, Texas\n\nBettina is a vanished community founded in 1847 by German immigrants as part of the Adelsverein colonization of the Fisher-Miller Land Grant in the U.S. state of Texas. It was located on the banks of the Llano River in Llano County, and no trace of the settlement remains today. The community was named after German artist and social activist Bettina von Arnim and was one of five attempted by the Darmstadt Forty. It was also known as the \"Darmstaedter Kolonie\". The community was sponsored by the Adelsverein, and founded on idealistic philosophies of European freethinkers of the day. It is notable for the community's camaraderie and mutually respectful relations with local indigenous tribes. Lack of a formal community framework caused Bettina to fail within a year of its founding.\n\nThe colony had its beginnings in 1846 in Darmstadt, Giessen, and Heidelberg, where Prince Carl of Solms-Braunfels delivered speeches on behalf of the Adelsverein, promoting Texas as a utopian frontier for university graduates. The Darmstadt Forty was a freethinker organization founded by Hermann Spiess, Ferdinand Ludwig Herff, and Gustav Schleicher, and based on ideals of Étienne Cabet and Charles Fourier. The Darmstadt Forty group set sail with dogs, goods, supplies, and an array of musical instruments aboard the \"St. Pauli\" from Hamburg in April 1847, arriving in Galveston on July 17. From Galveston they sailed to Indianola, where Adelsverein Commissioner-General John O. Meusebach had arranged for numerous wagons to haul the group and its freight inland. They were paid $10,000 in gold to help finance the first year of their settlement. During the four weeks it took them to travel to New Braunfels, the trek took on the ambiance of a collegiate party, with beer and singing and youthful high spiritedness filling the journey.\n\nSpiess and Meusebach scouted the area of the Llano River and chose the location for Bettina. Member Louis Reinhardt described the Llano River as so pure and crystal clear they named it the Silvery Llano. Upon reaching the site of Bettina, the group unloaded their musical instruments and began to sing their favorite songs. An adobe house was constructed with an outer siding of 10,000 shingles carved from a single pecan tree. The house was topped with a weather vane made by August Strauss.\n\nAs made possible in part by the Meusebach–Comanche Treaty, the group's interactions with local indigenous tribes were cordial. Reinhardt listed seven tribes among the colony's visitors: Comanche, Lipan Apache, Waco, Delaware, Kickapoo, Choctaw and Shawnee. The colonists and the tribes shared food and goods, and tried to learn each other's languages. Reinhardt claimed that the indigenous people usually gave back three times more than the colonists gave them.\n\nThe downfall of the colony was brought about by its own ideals of having a community not regulated by authority figures. Conflicts arose between individuals over who would shoulder the bulk of the workload. Only one crop ever came to fruition, which was 200 bushels of corn. After the Adelsverein's funding ran out, members of the group gradually drifted elsewhere.\n\n"}
{"id": "35303788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35303788", "title": "Bhagwan Mahavir World Peace", "text": "Bhagwan Mahavir World Peace\n\nThe Bhagwan Mahavir World Peace Award is a prize from India given by Sarhad organization of Pune City, India. The award will be given every year within South Asian countries to honor the remarkably performed persons of who guard the dignity of human existence. As notably it has awarded to Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Aung San Suu Kyi in 2012 with a prize worth around 1,100,000 Indian Rupee. Sarhad is a West India-Based Hindu social religious organization that's doing for peace keeping missions and projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "1144101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1144101", "title": "Black operation", "text": "Black operation\n\nA black operation (or black op) is a covert operation or clandestine operation by a government agency, a military unit or a paramilitary organization. This can include activities by private companies or groups. Key features of a black operation are that it is secret and it is not attributable to the organization carrying it out. The main difference between a black operation and one that is merely secret is that a black operation involves a significant degree of deception, to conceal who is behind it or to make it appear that some other entity is responsible (\"false flag\" operations).\n\nA single such activity may be called a black bag operation; that term is primarily used for covert or clandestine surreptitious entries into structures to obtain information for human intelligence operations. Such operations are known to have been carried out by the FBI, CIA, Mossad, MI6, ASIS, COMANF, DGFI, RAW, MSS, KGB, FSB, DGSE and the intelligence services of other nations.\n\n\"Black\" may be used as a generic term for any government activity that is hidden or secret. For example, in the United States, some activities by military and intelligence agencies are funded by a classified \"black budget\", of which the details, and sometimes even the total, are hidden from the public and from most congressional oversight.\n\n\nThe theme of black operations is a popular genre within fictional literature and Hollywood films. Both the spy film and spy fiction genres have had a significant following for many decades including such films as \"Apocalypse Now\" and \"Zero Dark Thirty\" and such authors as John Le Carre and Tom Clancy. These “black operations” have also been a key point in video games. One such example is Activision's \"\", set in the early 1960s, where the player performs black operations such as trying to assassinate Fidel Castro and to eliminate the three antagonists.\n\n"}
{"id": "40385144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40385144", "title": "Bully-Free ABA!", "text": "Bully-Free ABA!\n\nBully-Free ABA! is an anti-bully campaign run by the American Basketball Association. It was founded by CEO Joe Newman after his grandchildren became victims of bullying. The program features ABA teams visiting local schools to share stories about their own experience with bullies and how the issue can be solved.\n\nSupported by over 90 ABA franchise teams, the program’s goal is to decrease incidents of bullying in schools using proven intervention and conflict resolution skills. In the Kitsap Admirals version of the program, the players perform a skit depicting a hopeful \"student\" inquiring to tryout for the school's basketball or cheerleading team. The \"student\" is greeted by forms of both physical and verbal bullying by team members (such as name calling and pushing), before the narrator says \"Stop!\" and the scene freezes.\n\nThe audience is then asked to reflect on the scene performed, first by identifying the forms of bullying portrayed. A question and answer period then begins where the program recovers how to handle such situations. The players and coaches then take a moment to share stories of their own experiences with bullying. The program concludes with student/player interaction time.\n\nThe program has been gaining momentum throughout the league.\n\n"}
{"id": "23214099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23214099", "title": "Capitalism: A Love Story", "text": "Capitalism: A Love Story\n\nCapitalism: A Love Story is a 2009 American documentary film directed, written by, and starring Michael Moore. The film centers on the late-2000s financial crisis and the recovery stimulus, while putting forward an indictment of the current economic order in the United States and unfettered capitalism in general. Topics covered include Wall Street's \"casino mentality\", for-profit prisons, Goldman Sachs' influence in Washington, D.C., the poverty-level wages of many workers, the large wave of home foreclosures, corporate-owned life insurance, and the consequences of \"runaway greed\". The film also features a religious component where Moore examines whether or not capitalism is a sin and whether Jesus would be a capitalist, in order to shine light on the ideological contradictions among evangelical conservatives who support free market ideals.\n\nThe film was widely released to the public in the United States and Canada on October 2, 2009. Reviews were generally positive. It was released on DVD and Blu-ray on March 9, 2010.\n\nMoore begins by looking back at the contradictions in Ancient Rome, drawing similarities with the present day, and wondering how people of the future will look back on American society now. Would they pay more attention to viral videos or the wave of home foreclosures after the late-2000s financial crisis? Moore meets with his friend Wallace Shawn and they discuss what capitalism and \"free enterprise\" mean. Looking back on his happy and prosperous early life, Moore reflects, \"if this was capitalism, I loved it... and so did everyone else\": in the 1950s, the top tax rate was 90% and this meant that the country could build dams, bridges, schools and hospitals, most families only had one parent in work, union families had free healthcare, college tuition was free, most people had little personal debt and pensions were guaranteed. This prosperity was driven by the manufacturing industry, which benefited from post-war Germany and Japan struggling to recover.\n\nHe describes President Jimmy Carter's Crisis of Confidence speech as a turning point, which culminated in the election of Ronald Reagan in 1980, whom Moore calls a \"spokesmodel\" for the banks and corporations, who wanted to remake America to serve their interests. He points to the influence of Donald Regan, the Chairman and CEO of Merrill Lynch who served as Reagan's Secretary of the Treasury (1981–1985) and White House Chief of Staff (1985–1987), and the dismantling of America's industrial infrastructure, which was done for short-term gain by companies posting massive profits, and to destroy the unions. Unemployment and productivity increased as wages stagnated, the top tax rate was halved, household debt increased to almost 100% of GDP, bankruptcies and the incarceration rate skyrocketed and sales of anti-depressants and healthcare costs rose. This is compared to an increase in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the ratio of CEO pay compared to the pay of average workers.\nMoore looks back on his first film, \"Roger & Me\", about the regional economic impact of General Motors CEO Roger Smith's decision to close several auto plants in his hometown of Flint, Michigan, despite large profits. Moore tries to go into the General Motors head office in Detroit to speak to the Chairman but is denied access. He notes that by the time of the job cuts in Flint, Germany and Japan had rebuilt their automotive industries and were producing better, safer, cleaner, more reliable cars. Moore returns to the present, showing President George W. Bush enjoying his final year in office as companies announce massive layoffs and the economy starts to collapse. He also examines the Kids for cash scandal in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, which saw judges bribed by the builder of two private, for-profit juvenile detention centers, in return for contracting with the facilities and imposing harsh sentences on juveniles brought before their courts to increase the number of residents in the centers.\n\nAfter seeing the Congressional testimony of pilot Chesley \"Sully\" Sullenberger, who reported that over his career, his salary had been cut by 40 percent and his pension, like most airline pensions, was terminated and replaced by a \"PBGC\" guarantee worth only pennies on the dollar, Moore interviews other airline pilots on their experiences. They corroborate this, reporting low pay, massive debt, being on food stamps and taking second jobs. Moore notes that pilots being overworked and underpaid didn't enter into the media discussion following the crash of Colgan Air Flight 3407. He says that capitalism allows people to get away with anything, including making a profit from someone's death. He speaks to the family of a man who worked for Amegy Bank of Texas, which had secretly taken out a life insurance policy on him, with itself as the beneficiary, and then accidentally wrote to his widow, telling her that they were receiving a $1.5m payout because he died of cancer. He wonders how this can be legal when he is prohibited from taking out home insurance on someone else's property.\n\nMoore speaks to Catholic priests and Bishop Thomas Gumbleton, who agree that capitalism is evil and contrary to the teachings of Jesus and the Bible. Moore examines the claim that the tenets of capitalism are compatible with Christianity, arguing that the rich ignore religion when it comes to the poor, sick and disadvantaged. He points to Citigroup's leaked \"plutonomy memo\", which said that America and other countries were not democracies any more, but were ruled by the wealthy; though it feared a backlash from the \"99%\", who still had equal votes, but were content with the arrangement as they aspired to join the 1%. Moore then goes to see the United States Constitution, where he can find no trace of support for capitalism, only passages like \"we the people\", \"a more perfect union\" and \"promoting the general welfare\". He wonders what America would be like if all workplaces were democracies, like the worker owner co-operatives Isthmus Engineering & Manufacturing and Alvarado Street Bakery, where he finds that the workers are happy, concerned about fairness, productive and in the latter case, earn over $65,000 working on the assembly line. Moore also points to Jonas Salk, who developed and refused to patent a polio vaccine. He notes that now, top college graduates are so burdened with debt that they seek out high-paying jobs, leading many of them to work in derivatives and credit default swaps. Moore struggles to understand these concepts, finding that they are purposely complicated so as to avoid proper regulation.\n\nCutting financial regulations also allowed for increased refinancing to access home equity, which meant that lenders like Countrywide Financial, Citibank, Wells Fargo and Chase Bank offered subprime mortgages to people who couldn't afford the increasing interest rates and defaulted, causing the subprime mortgage crisis, which led to the global financial crisis. Moore meets with an ex-Countrywide employee, whose job it was to give prominent politicians, regulators and financiers cheap mortgages and discounted loans. He then meets William K. Black, who was a central figure in exposing Congressional corruption during the Savings and loan crisis, who tells Moore that the FBI was investigating mortgage fraud but had its priorities changed after the September 11 attacks, leading to white-collar crime going unpunished. Black compares the financial crisis to the failure of a dam: slowly at first, with a little failure that stretches back years, that ultimately ends in a sudden catastrophe. He also reports that bank executives and former politicians and regulators, like Robert Rubin, Lawrence Summers and Timothy Geithner, were the ones who profited financially from this, after changes in the law that allowed commercial banks to get into investment banking, hence the merger of Citicorp and Travelers Group.\n\nMoore meets with several members of Congress, who report being told that they needed to vote for the $700 billion bailout of the banks or the economy would collapse. He notes that the Treasury Department, which negotiated the bailout with Congress, is full of former Goldman Sachs executives, as it was under President Bill Clinton, including Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, the former CEO of Goldman Sachs. Moore reports that these former Goldman executives used the bailout money to rescue Goldman and other favored companies. After Congress rejected the bailout on September 29, 2008, pressure was applied. There was another vote on October 3 and the bailout passed. Moore asks Elizabeth Warren, Chair of the Congressional Oversight Panel, what happened to the money and she tells him that the Treasury Department and the banks followed a \"don't ask, don't tell\" policy. Moore calls Paulson's office to ask why he followed this policy but is hung up on by his secretary. So he drives to Wall Street in an armored car to attempt to ask the banks for the money back and perform citizen's arrests on the executives.\n\nMoore reports on the Occupy movement and the 2008 presidential campaign of Democratic Senator Barack Obama, who is demonised as a \"socialist\". He notes that the smears against Obama don't work, as support for him increases and people become curious as to what socialism actually means. He profiles Wayne County Sheriff Warren Evans, who orders an end to foreclosures; the Miami Low Income Families Fighting Together, who re-occupy foreclosed homes; and workers at Republic Windows and Doors, who organised a sit-down strike after being fired without severance, vacation time, or health care benefits after the company was taken over by Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase. The striking workers are met with support from Obama, clergy and Illinois politicians and Moore asks if this is the beginning of a worker's revolt. After six days, Bank of America agrees to all their demands. Moore compares this action with the Flint sit-down strike of 1936–1937 and recalls President Franklin D. Roosevelt's proposed Second Bill of Rights during his 1944 State of the Union address and lamenting that Roosevelt's early death meant that none of it was accomplished. However, as Roosevelt's advisors went abroad after the end of World War II, many other countries adopted his ideas. In contrast, Moore muses, ordinary American people eventually suffered from crises like Hurricane Katrina, while the rich are unaffected.\n\nThe film ends with Moore marking Wall Street off as a crime scene, narrating that American people live in the richest country on Earth and deserve a decent job, healthcare, a good education and a home of their own, saying that it's a crime that they don't have these things, and never will as long as the evil of capitalism continues to enrich the few at the expense of the many. He calls for it to be eliminated and replaced with something good for all people—democracy. Moore concludes that he can't do this alone and appeals for help from the viewer.\n\n\nDuring the Cannes Film Festival in 2008, Overture Films and Paramount Vantage announced an upcoming project by director Michael Moore, though at the time they were vague about the project's theme. Originally thought to be a follow-up to the 2004 film \"Fahrenheit 9/11\", it was revealed that Moore's film was to be a documentary about the financial crisis of 2007–2010. In February 2009, he issued an appeal to people who worked for Wall Street or in the financial industry to share firsthand information, requesting, \"Be a hero and help me expose the biggest swindle in American history.\"\n\nPrior to the film's release, Moore partnered with web development company Concentric Sky to develop a companion website for the film.\n\nFootage of President Franklin D. Roosevelt detailing his proposed Second Bill of Rights was believed to be lost. Roosevelt, who had recently recovered from the flu, presented his January 1944 State of the Union address to the public on radio, as a fireside chat from the White House. He asked that newsreel cameras film the last portion of the address, concerning the Second Bill of Rights. This footage was believed lost until it was uncovered in 2008 in South Carolina by Michael Moore while researching for the film. The footage shows Roosevelt's Second Bill of Rights address in its entirety, as well as a shot of the eight rights printed on a sheet of paper.\n\n\"Capitalism: A Love Story\" premiered at the 66th Venice International Film Festival on September 6, 2009. The film also screened at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 13 and at the New York Film Festival on September 21. On September 23, the film had a limited release at two theaters in New York City and two theaters in Los Angeles, grossing $37,832 in its first day for a $9,458 per theater average. The theater average was considered strong, though it did not beat the record opening of Moore's \"Fahrenheit 9/11\", which grossed $83,922 at two theaters in one day. Over the weekend of September 25, \"Capitalism\" grossed $231,964 in the four theaters.\n\nThe film had a wide release in 995 theaters in the United States and Canada on October 2, 2009, about a year after the enacting of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, which approved a $700 billion bailout of Wall Street. The film opened in eighth place at the box office on the first weekend of its wide release, grossing $4,447,378. The final domestic total was $14,363,397, making it the 16th highest grossing documentary in history (2014).\n\nThe review aggregate website Rotten Tomatoes reported that 75% out of 181 critics gave the film a positive review, with an average score of 6.7 out of 10. Similar website Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average rating out of 100 to mainstream critics' reviews, reported an average score of 61 out of 100 based on 35 reviews, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nDeborah Young, writing for the trade paper \"The Hollywood Reporter\", wrote of \"Capitalism: A Love Story\", \"Although it's less focused than \"Sicko\" or \"Fahrenheit 9/11\"... because its subject is more abstract, this is a typical Moore oeuvre: funny, often over the top and of dubious documentation, but with strongly made points that leave viewers much to ponder and debate after they walk out of the theater.\" Young acknowledged Moore's simplification of the topic and added, \"But here his talent is evident in creating two hours of engrossing cinema by contrasting a fast-moving montage of '50s archive images extolling free enterprise with the economic disaster of the present.\" The critic noted whom the documentary targeted: \"Though it blames all political parties, including the Democrats, for caving in with the bailout, the film is careful to spare President Barack Obama, who remains a symbol of hope for justice.\"\n\nLeslie Felperin of the trade paper \"Variety\" wrote, \"Pic's target is less capitalism qua capitalism than the banking industry, which Moore skewers ruthlessly, explaining last year's economic meltdown in terms a sixth-grader could understand. That said, there's still plenty here to annoy right-wingers, as well as those who, however much they agree with Moore's politics, just can't stomach his oversimplification, on-the-nose sentimentality and goofball japery.\" Felperin said that the documentary was similarly structured to Moore's previous documentaries, \"\"Capitalism\" skips around considerably, laying down a mix of reportage, interviews and polemic.\" Felperin observed Moore's prominent role in his own documentary, believing it to be justified with relevance to crises in the automobile industry that Moore's family personally encountered. The critic complained that Moore strove \"to manipulate viewers' emotions with shots of crying children and tearjerking musical choices\", believing that the documentary worked better when the director let the topic unfold through various accounts.\n\nUpon the film's February 2010 UK release, \"The Times\" said the film \"showcases Moore at his undeniably powerful best and his exploitative, manipulative worst\":\n\nThe film is brilliantly researched, both with regard to the labyrinthine web of connections between the world of finance and the corridors of power and the wittily used archive footage. Interviews with Senate insiders and financial experts are informative, and there’s an amusing sequence in which he quizzes a selection of priests and bishops who opine that capitalism is \"evil\" and was not, in fact, the preferred economic model of Our Lord. Then Moore goes and spoils it all by hauling out his trusty bullhorn for a series of lame stunts. Like the complacent clown prince of agitprop, Moore hectors Wall Street doormen and security guards, while the company bosses remain in their fortress made of money, blissfully unaware of the fat man making a scene on the street far below...But for all his cheap tactics, Moore mounts a persuasive case that something is rotten in the current economic system.\n\nThe Associated Press's national business columnist Rachel Beck reviewed the accuracy of three points made in \"Capitalism\":\n\nThe Association of Advanced Life Underwriting issued a statement that Moore \"mischaracterized\" Corporate Owned Life Insurance (COLI), stating that the issues were addressed by Congress in the 1990s and again in 2006. The AALU further states that corporate-owned life insurance is taken out only on highly compensated employees, only with their knowledge and consent and that COLI finances employee benefits and protects jobs and that employees pay nothing for COLI but receive substantial benefits.\n\nUpon the film's February 2010 theatrical release in the United Kingdom, film critic Mark Kermode, appearing on \"The Culture Show\", asked the BBC's business editor Robert Peston whether Moore's \"crusading\" had been based on a misrepresentation of American capitalism. Canada's Centre for Research on Globalisation characterized the response: \"Peston cannot fault the facts of the movie, though he appears a little uncomfortable having to say so.\"\n\nReligion expert Anthony Stevens-Arroyo stated that the film should be considered \"a special kind of Catholic achievement\" and asked whether Michael Moore should be named \"Catholic of the Year\" for raising the serious issues in the context of Catholic social teaching, and for presenting \"Catholic currents of social justice\" in the film.\n\nAt the Venice Film Festival, Moore won the \"Leoncino d'Oro\" (\"Little Golden Lion\") award for his documentary, and he also received the festival's Open Prize. The documentary was also nominated for the festival's Golden Lion award, but lost to \"Lebanon\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31049103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31049103", "title": "Center for International Stabilization and Recovery", "text": "Center for International Stabilization and Recovery\n\nThe Center for International Stabilization and Recovery (CISR), formerly the Mine Action Information Center (MAIC), is a public policy center at James Madison University that manages information, conducts training, holds conferences and workshops, and performs research relevant to humanitarian mine clearance, victim assistance, mine risk reduction and other explosive remnants of war (ERW).\n\nThe CISR has a full-time staff that organizes faculty, students and other subject-matter experts into teams to address specific post-conflict issues. Drawing on university programs and mine-action experience, CISR facilitates integrative approaches and innovative solutions to information and training.\nThe program began in 1996 under a directive by the U.S. Under Secretary of Defense for Policy to serve as a humanitarian demining information clearinghouse. In 1997, it was chartered as a Department of Defense \"Center of Excellence\". Starting in 1998, it received support from the Department of State's Vietnam Initiative, and by 2001, the Department of State was the primary supporting agency. The center works internationally; its support network includes United Nations, Canada, Switzerland, and the Slovenia International Trust Fund. In 2008 the name was changed to the present title, and the scope expanded to include all explosive remnants of war and post-conflict recovery issues. Since February 2010 the center has been directed by Dr. Kenneth Rutherford.\n\nThe \"Journal of ERW and Mine Action\" is a print and online magazine for the global landmine, ERW and post-conflict community. It is published three times a year; the print magazine has a circulation of 1,500, two-thirds outside the US, and the online site receives 135,000 views annually. The journal contains editorials, articles, reports, reviews, profiles dealing with current practices, new equipment and techniques, procedures, lessons learned and newsworthy information. The Journal is written by field experts along with in-house contributions, and is funded by contracts from the United States Department of State's Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, and the United States Department of Defense's Night Vision and Electronic Sensors Directorate.\n\n“Pathways to Resilience” (P2R) is a regional leadership and training program for survivors of landmines and explosive ordnance injuries. The program's purpose is to develop self-confidence, emotional and physical health and life direction for landmine survivors while empowering them to help other survivors in their country of origin. The first P2R program hosted 29 landmine survivors for a week-long peer-support program in Hamama, Lebanon from May 8–15, 2011.\n\n\"We Love Life\" is a theatrical play and creative arts program aimed at raising awareness in the landmine and UXO (Unexploded Ordnance)-threatened provinces of north-western Jordan.\n\nCISR, working in close collaboration with faculty from JMU’s College of Business (COB), specializes in management training for leaders in mine action around the world. The Senior Managers’ Course in ERW and Mine Action seeks to integrate the latest thinking in the field of business management with the practical experience of ERW/mine action operators. The goal is to hone the skills of senior managers of national ERW and mine action programs so that countries can more effectively and efficiently clear their lands of landmines and other explosive remnants of war that adversely affect their citizens' well-being and impinge upon economic development. From 2004 - 2013 CISR hosted 9 courses on the campus of JMU with 172 participants from 40 countries.\n\nCISR has also conducted regional training courses in Jordan, Colombia, Peru and in May 2014 will conduct a training in Tajikistan.\n\nThe Global Mine Action Registry is a resource database of contact information on hundreds of mine-action organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "227091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227091", "title": "Confederation", "text": "Confederation\n\nA confederation (also known as a confederacy or league) is a union of sovereign states, united for purposes of common action often in relation to other states. Usually created by a treaty, confederations of states tend to be established for dealing with critical issues, such as defense, foreign relations, internal trade or currency, with the general government being required to provide support for all its members. Confederalism represents a main form of inter-governmentalism, this being defined as any form of interaction between states which takes place on the basis of sovereign independence or government.\n\nThe nature of the relationship among the member states constituting a confederation varies considerably. Likewise, the relationship between the member states and the general government, and the distribution of powers among them is highly variable. Some looser confederations are similar to international organisations. Other confederations with stricter rules may resemble federal systems. \n\nSince the member states of a confederation retain their sovereignty, they have an implicit right of secession. Political philosopher Emmerich Vattel observed: ‘Several sovereign and independent states may unite themselves together by a perpetual confederacy without each in particular ceasing to be a perfect state. … The deliberations in common will offer no violence to the sovereignty of each member’.\n\nUnder a confederal arrangement, in contrast with a federal one, the central authority is relatively weak. Decisions made by the general government in a unicameral legislature, a council of the member states, require subsequent implementation by the member states to take effect. They are therefore not laws acting directly upon the individual, but instead have more the character of inter-state agreements. Also, decision-making in the general government usually proceeds by consensus (unanimity) and not by majority, which makes for a slow and inefficient government. These problematic features, limiting the effectiveness of the union, mean that political pressure tends to build over time for the transition to a federal system of government, as happened in the American, Swiss, German and European cases of regional integration.\n\nMany scholars have claimed that the Kingdom of Belgium, a country with a complicated federal structure, has adopted some characteristics of a confederation under the pressure of separatist movements, especially in Flanders. For example, C. E. Lagasse declared that Belgium was \"near the political system of a Confederation\" regarding the constitutional reform agreements between Belgian Regions (federated states with well-defined geographical borders: Flanders, Wallonia and Greater Brussels) and between Communities (statelike authorities based on the mother tongue, not geography), while the director of the \"Centre de recherche et d'information socio-politiques\" (CRISP) Vincent de Coorebyter called Belgium \"undoubtedly a federation...[with] some aspects of a confederation\" in \"Le Soir\". Also in \"Le Soir\", Professor Michel Quévit of the Catholic University of Leuven wrote that the \"Belgian political system is already in dynamics of a Confederation\".\n\nNevertheless, the Belgian regions (and linguistic communities) lack the necessary autonomy to leave the Belgian state. As such, federal aspects still dominate. Also, for fiscal policy and public finances, the federal state dominates the other levels of government. \n\nThe increasingly confederal aspects of the Belgian Federal State appear to be a political reflection of the profound cultural, sociological and economic differences between Flemings (Belgians who speak Dutch or Dutch dialects) and Walloons (Belgians who speak French or French dialects). As an example, in the last several decades, over 95% of Belgians have voted for political parties that represent voters from only one community, the separatist N-VA being the party with the biggest voter support among the Flemish population. Parties that strongly advocate Belgian unity and appeal to voters of both communities play usually only a marginal role in nationwide general elections.\n\nThis makes Belgium fundamentally different from federal countries like Switzerland, Canada, Germany and Australia. In those countries, national parties regularly receive over 90% of voter support. The only geographical areas comparable with Belgium within Europe are Catalonia, the Basque Country (both part of Spain), Northern Ireland and Scotland (both part of the United Kingdom) and parts of Italy, where a massive voter turnout for regional (and often separatist) political parties has become the rule in the last decades, while nationwide parties advocating national unity draw around half, or sometimes less, of the votes.\n\nIn Canada, the word \"confederation\" has an additional, unrelated meaning. \"Confederation\" refers to the process of (or the event of) establishing or joining the Canadian federal state.\n\nIn modern terminology, Canada is a federation and not a confederation. However, to contemporaries of the Constitution Act, 1867, \"confederation\" did not have the same connotation of a weakly centralized federation. Canadian Confederation generally refers to the Constitution Act, 1867 which formed the Dominion of Canada from three of the colonies of British North America, and to the subsequent incorporation of other colonies and territories. Therefore, on 1 July 1867, Canada became a self-governing dominion of the British Empire with a federal structure under the leadership of Sir John A. Macdonald. The provinces involved were the Province of Canada (comprising Canada West, now Ontario, formerly Upper Canada; and Canada East now Quebec, formerly Lower Canada), Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick. Later participants were Manitoba, British Columbia, Prince Edward Island, Alberta and Saskatchewan (the latter two created as provinces from the Northwest Territories in 1905), and finally Newfoundland (now Newfoundland and Labrador) in 1949. Canada is an unusually decentralized federal state and not a confederate association of sovereign states (the usual meaning of \"confederation\" in modern terms). A Canadian law, the Clarity Act, and a court ruling, \"Reference Re Secession of Quebec\", set forth the conditions for negotiations to allow Canadian provinces (though not territories) to leave the Canadian federal state; however, as this would require a constitutional amendment, there is no current \"constitutional\" method for withdrawal.\n\nDue to its unique nature, and the political sensitivities surrounding it, there is no common or legal classification for the European Union (EU). However, it does bear some resemblance to both a confederation (or a \"new\" type of confederation) and a federation. The EU operates common economic policies with hundreds of common laws, which enable a single economic market, open internal borders, a common currency among most member-states and allow for numerous other areas where powers have been transferred and directly applicable laws are made. However, unlike a federation, the EU does not have exclusive powers over foreign affairs, defence and taxation. Furthermore, laws sometimes must be transposed into national law by national parliaments; decisions by member states are taken by special majorities with blocking minorities accounted for; and treaty amendment requires ratification by every member state before it can come into force.\n\nHowever, academic observers more usually discuss the EU in the terms of it being a federation. As international law professor Joseph H. H. Weiler (of the Hague Academy and New York University) wrote, \"Europe has charted its own brand of constitutional federalism\". Jean-Michel Josselin and Alain Marciano see the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg City as being a primary force behind building a federal legal order in the Union with Josselin stating that a \"complete shift from a confederation to a federation would have required to straight-forwardly replace the principality of the member states vis-à-vis the Union by that of the European citizens. As a consequence, both confederate and federate features coexist in the judicial landscape\". Rutgers political science professor R. Daniel Kelemen observed: \"Those uncomfortable using the 'F' word in the EU context should feel free to refer to it as a quasi-federal or federal-like system. Nevertheless, the EU has the necessary attributes of a federal system. It is striking that while many scholars of the EU continue to resist analyzing it as a federation, most contemporary students of federalism view the EU as a federal system\". Thomas Risse and Tanja A. Börzel claim that the \"EU only lacks two significant features of a federation. First, the Member States remain the 'masters' of the treaties, i.e., they have the exclusive power to amend or change the constitutive treaties of the EU. Second, the EU lacks a real 'tax and spend' capacity, in other words, there is no fiscal federalism.\"\n\nValéry Giscard d'Estaing, the chairman of the body of experts commissioned to elaborate a constitutional charter for the European Union, was confronted with strong opposition from the United Kingdom towards including the words 'federal' or 'federation' in the European Constitution, and hence replaced the word with either 'Community' or 'Union'.\n\nIn the context of the history of the indigenous peoples of the Americas, a confederacy may refer to a semi-permanent political and military alliance consisting of multiple nations (or \"tribes\", \"bands\", or \"villages\") which maintained their separate leadership. One of the most well-known is the Iroquois, but there were many others during different eras and locations across North America; these include the Wabanaki Confederacy, Western Confederacy, Powhatan, Seven Nations of Canada, Pontiac's Confederacy, Illinois Confederation, Tecumseh's Confederacy, Great Sioux Nation, Blackfoot Confederacy, Iron Confederacy and Council of Three Fires.\n\nThe Iroquois League, historically the Iroquois Confederacy, is a group of Native Americans (in what is now the United States) and First Nations (in what is now Canada) that consists of six nations: the Mohawk, the Oneida, the Onondaga, the Cayuga, the Seneca and the Tuscarora. The Iroquois have a representative government known as the Grand Council. The Grand Council is the oldest governmental institution still maintaining its original form in North America. The League has been functioning since prior to major European contact. Each tribe sends chiefs to act as representatives and make decisions for the whole nation.\n\nSerbia and Montenegro (2003–06) was a confederation that was formed by the two remaining republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFR Yugoslavia): Montenegro and neighboring Serbia were sole legal successors to FR Yugoslavia, which consequently ceased to exist. The country was reconstituted as a very loose political union called the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro. It was established on 4 February 2003.\n\nAs a confederation , Serbia and Montenegro were united only in very few realms, such as defense, foreign affairs and a very weak common president of the confederation. The two constituent republics functioned separately throughout the period of its short existence, and continued to operate under separate economic policies, as well as using separate currencies (the euro was and still is the only legal tender in Montenegro, while the dinar was still the legal tender in Serbia). On 21 May 2006, the Montenegrin independence referendum was held. Final official results indicated on 31 May that 55.5% of voters voted in favor of independence. The state union effectively came to an end after Montenegro's formal declaration of independence on 3 June 2006, and Serbia's formal declaration of independence on 5 June.\n\nSwitzerland, officially known as the \"Swiss Confederation\", is an example of a modern country that traditionally refers to itself as a confederation. This is due to the fact that the official (and traditional) name of Switzerland in German (the majority language of the Swiss) is ' (literally \"Swiss Comradeship by Oath\"), an expression which was translated into the Latin ' (Helvetic Confederation). It had been a confederacy since its inception in 1291 as the Old Swiss Confederacy, originally created as an alliance among the valley communities of the central Alps, and retains nowadays the name of Confederacy for reasons of historical tradition. The confederacy facilitated management of common interests (e.g. freedom from external domination, especially by the Austrian Habsburgs, development of republican institutions in a Europe composed of monarchies, free trade, etc.) and ensured peace between the different cultural entities in the central alpine area.\n\nAfter the Sonderbund War of 1847, when some of the Catholic cantons of Switzerland tried to set up a separate union (\"\" in German) against the Protestant majority, the resulting political system established by the victorious Protestant cantons acquired all the characteristics of a federation..\n\nHistorical confederations (especially those predating the 20th century) may not fit the current definition of a confederation, may be proclaimed as a federation but be confederal (or the reverse), and may not show any qualities that 21st-century political scientists might classify as those of a confederation.\n\nSome have more the characteristics of a personal union, but appear here because of their self-styling as a \"confederation\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9803384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9803384", "title": "Conservapedia", "text": "Conservapedia\n\nConservapedia is an English-language wiki encyclopedia project written from an American conservative point of view. The website was started in 2006 by American homeschool teacher and attorney Andrew Schlafly, son of conservative activist Phyllis Schlafly, to counter what he perceived as a liberal bias present in Wikipedia. It uses editorials and a wiki-based system to generate content.\n\nExamples of Conservapedia's ideology include its accusations against and strong criticism of former U.S. President Barack Obama - including its denial that he was born in Hawaii - along with criticisms of atheism, homosexuality, the Democratic Party, evolution, and Wikipedia's alleged liberal bias. Furthermore, it views the theory of relativity as promoting moral relativism, claims there is a proven link between abortion and breast cancer, praises a number of Republican politicians, supports celebrities and artistic works that it views as advocating moral standards in line with Christian family values, and accepts fundamentalist Christian doctrines such as Young Earth creationism. Conservapedia's \"Conservative Bible Project\" is a crowd-sourced retranslation of the English-language Bible which Conservapedia claims will be \"free of corruption by liberal untruths\".\n\nThe site has received negative reactions from the mainstream media, as well as from notable political figures, including commentators and journalists; and has been criticized by liberal and conservative critics alike for bias and inaccuracies.\n\nConservapedia had over 46,000 articles in August 2018.\n\nConservapedia was created in November 2006 by Andrew Schlafly, a Harvard- and Princeton-educated attorney and a homeschool teacher. He started the project after reading a student's assignment written using Common Era dating notation rather than the Anno Domini system that he preferred. Although he was \"an early Wikipedia enthusiast,\" as reported by Shawn Zeller of \"Congressional Quarterly\", Schlafly became concerned about bias after Wikipedia editors repeatedly undid his edits to the article about the 2005 Kansas evolution hearings. Schlafly expressed hope that Conservapedia would become a general resource for American educators and a counterpoint to the liberal bias that he perceived in Wikipedia.\n\nThe \"Eagle Forum University\" online education program, which is associated with Phyllis Schlafly's Eagle Forum organization, uses material for various online courses, including U.S. history, stored on Conservapedia. Editing of Conservapedia articles related to a particular course topic is also a certain assignment for Eagle Forum University students.\n\nRunning on MediaWiki software, the site was founded in 2006, with its earliest articles dating from November 22. By January 2012, Conservapedia contained over 38,000 pages, not counting pages intended for internal discussion and collaboration, minimal \"stub\" articles, and other miscellany. Regular features on the front page of Conservapedia include links to news articles and blogs that the site's editors consider relevant to conservatism. Editors of Conservapedia also maintain a page titled \"Examples of Bias in Wikipedia\" that compiles alleged instances of bias or errors on Wikipedia pages. It was, at one point, the most-viewed page on the site.\n\nConservapedia has editorial policies designed to prevent vandalism and what Schlafly sees as liberal bias. According to \"The Australian\", although the site's operators claim that the site \"strives to keep its articles concise, informative, family-friendly, and true to the facts, which often back up conservative ideas more than liberal ones\", on Conservapedia \"arguments are often circular\" and \"contradictions, self-serving rationalizations and hypocrisies abound.\"\n\nShortly after its launch in 2006, Schlafly described the site as being competition for Wikipedia, saying \"Wikipedia has gone the way of CBS News. It's long overdue to have competition like Fox News.\" Many editorial practices of Conservapedia differ from those of Wikipedia. Articles and other content on the site frequently include criticism of Wikipedia as well as criticism of its alleged liberal ideology.\n\nLaunching the online encyclopedia project, Schlafly asserted the need for an alternative to Wikipedia due to editorial philosophy conflicts. The site's \"Conservapedia Commandments\" differ from Wikipedia's editorial policies. Wikipedia's policies include following a neutral point of view and avoiding original research. In response to Wikipedia's core policy of neutrality, Schlafly has stated: \"It's impossible for an encyclopedia to be neutral. I mean let's take a point of view, let's disclose that point of view to the reader\", and \"Wikipedia does not poll the views of its editors and administrators. They make no effort to retain balance. It ends up having all the neutrality of a lynch mob\".\n\nIn a March 2007 interview with \"The Guardian\", Schlafly stated, \"I've tried editing Wikipedia, and found it and the biased editors who dominate it censor or change facts to suit their views. In one case my factual edits were removed within 60 seconds—so editing Wikipedia is no longer a viable approach\". On March 7, 2007, Schlafly was interviewed on BBC Radio 4's flagship morning show, \"Today\", opposite Wikipedia administrator Jim Redmond. Schlafly raised several concerns: that the article on the Renaissance does not give any credit to Christianity, that Wikipedia articles apparently prefer to use non-American spellings even though most users are American, that the article on American activities in the Philippines has a distinctly anti-American bias, and that attempts to include pro-Christian or pro-American views are removed very quickly. Schlafly also claimed that Wikipedia's allowance of both Common Era and Anno Domini notation was anti-Christian bias.\n\nConservapedia allows users to \"use any of the content on this site with or without attribution.\" The copyright policy also states, \"This license is revocable only in very rare instances of self-defense, such as protecting continued use by Conservapedia editors or other licensees.\" It also does not permit \"unauthorized mirroring.\" Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales has raised concerns about the fact that the project is not licensed under the GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL) or a similar copyleft license, stating that \"[p]eople who contribute [to Conservapedia] are giving them full control of the content, which may lead to unpleasant results.\"\n\nThe site has stated that it prohibits unregistered users from editing entries due to concerns over vandalism, disruption or defamation. Brian Macdonald, a Conservapedia editor, commented that vandalism was intended to \"cause people to say, 'That Conservapedia is just wacko.'\" According to Stephanie Simon of the \"Los Angeles Times\", Macdonald spent many hours every day reverting \"malicious editing\". Vandals had inserted \"errors, pornographic photos and satire.\" For example, U.S. Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales was said to be \"a strong supporter of torture as a law enforcement tool for use against Democrats and third world inhabitants\".\n\nConservapedia states on its \"Manual of Style\" page that \"American English spellings are preferred but Commonwealth spellings, for \"de novo\" or otherwise well-maintained articles are welcome.\" It prefers that articles about the United Kingdom use British English, while articles about the United States use American English, to resolve editorial disputes. Initially, Schlafly and other Conservapedia editors considered Wikipedia's policy allowing British English spelling to be anti-American bias.\n\nThe \"Conservapedia Commandments\" require edits to be \"family-friendly, clean, concise, and without gossip or foul language\" and that users make most edits on the site quality edits to articles. Accounts that engage in what it considers \"unproductive activity, such as 90% talk and only 10% quality edits\" may be blocked. The commandments also cite the United States Code as justification for legal action against edits that contain obscenities or are vandalism or spam. Conservapedia policies encourage its users to choose usernames \"based on [their] real name or initials\", and users that have usernames deemed \"frivolous\" by the admins are blocked; one of the site's criticisms of Wikipedia is \"silly administrator names\", which is claimed to reflect Wikipedia's \"substantial anti-intellectual element\". Because of Schlafly's claim that Wikipedia's allowance of both Common Era and Anno Domini notation is anti-Christian bias, the commandments disallow use of Common Era notation as well.\n\nVarious Conservapedia articles contradict established fields of science. On March 19, 2007, the British free newspaper \"Metro\" ran the article \"Weird, wild wiki on which anything goes\", articulating the dismissal of Conservapedia by the Royal Society, saying \"People need to be very careful about where they look for scientific information\". A \"Los Angeles Times\" journalist noted Conservapedia's critics voiced concern that children stumbling on the site may assume Conservapedia's scientific content is accurate.\n\nAlthough not all Conservapedia contributors subscribe to a young-earth creationist point of view—the late administrator Terry Koeckritz stated to the \"Los Angeles Times\" that he did not take the Genesis creation account literally—sources have attributed the poor science coverage to an overall editorial support of the young-earth creationist perspective and an over-reliance on Christian creationist home-schooling textbooks. In an analysis in early 2007, science writer Carl Zimmer found evidence that much of what appeared to be inaccurate or inadequate information about science and scientific theory could be traced back to an over-reliance on citations from the works of home-schooling textbook author Jay L. Wile.<ref name=\"scienceblog 2007/02/21\"></ref>\n\nConservapedia's article on evolution presents evolution as a naturalistic theory that lacks support and that conflicts with evidence in the fossil record that creationists perceive to support creationism. The entry also suggests that sometimes the Bible has been more scientifically correct than the scientific community. Schlafly has defended the statement as presenting an alternative to evolution. Furthermore, the encyclopedia rejects the idea of creationist and evolutionary concepts being compatible with one another, as in theistic evolution (to which even Charles Darwin was open) or Old Earth creationism.\n\nAccording to Conservapedia, global warming is a \"liberal hoax\". An entry on the \"Pacific Northwest Arboreal Octopus\" has received particular attention, although Schlafly has asserted that this page was intended as a parody of environmentalism. As of March 4, 2007, the entry has been deleted.\n\nConservapedia asserts that there is a proven link between abortion and breast cancer, while the scientific consensus is that the best studies indicate no such association.\n\nConservapedia has also received criticism for its articles regarding the theory of relativity, particularly on their entry titled \"Counterexamples to relativity\", an article that lists examples purportedly demonstrating that the theory is incorrect. Attention was drawn to the article by a \"Talking Points Memo\" posting, in which they reported on Conservapedia's entry and stated that Andy Schlafly, Conservapedia's founder, \"has found one more liberal plot: the theory of relativity\". \"New Scientist\", a science magazine, criticized Conservapedia's views on relativity and responded to several of Conservapedia's arguments against it. Against Conservapedia's statements, \"New Scientist\" stated that, while one is unlikely to find a single physicist who would claim that the theory of general relativity is the whole answer to how the universe works, the theory of relativity has passed every test it has been put through.\n\nUniversity of Maryland physics professor Robert L. Park has also criticized Conservapedia's entry on the theory of relativity, arguing that its criticism of the principle as \"heavily promoted by liberals who like its encouragement of relativism and its tendency to mislead people in how they view the world\" confuses a physical theory with a moral value. Similarly, \"New Scientist\" stated at the end of their article that:\n\nIn October 2010, \"Scientific American\" criticized Conservapedia's attitude towards the Theory of Relativity, assigning them a zero score on their 0 to 100 fallacy-versus-fact \"Science Index\", describing Conservapedia as \"the online encyclopedia run by conservative lawyer Andrew Schlafly, [which] implies that Einstein's theory of relativity is part of a liberal plot.\"\n\nAnother claim is that \"Albert Einstein's work had nothing to do with the development of the atomic bomb\", and that Einstein was only a minor contributor to the theory of relativity.\n\n\"The Guardian\" has referred to Conservapedia's politics as \"right-wing\", although it is sometimes described as far-right or New Right.\n\nMany Conservapedia articles criticise values that its editors associate with \"liberal ideology\". The article \"Liberal\" once began with text originating from Schlafly personally: \"A liberal (also leftist) is someone who rejects logical and biblical standards, often for self-centered reasons. There are no coherent liberal standards; often a liberal is merely someone who craves attention, and who uses many words to say nothing.\" Leonard Pitts quoted it in a critical comment saying \"You may judge Conservapedia's own bias by reading its definition of liberal\". Conservapedia's entry on 'Liberal' has since been changed and as of November 11, 2017, began with:\n\nA liberal…is someone who advocates an increase in government spending, power, and control, such as ObamaCare. Liberals often support the censorship and denial of biblical Christianity. Liberals who are a part of the secular left prefer atheism/agnosticism over the Christian faith, as atheism has no objective morality to hinder their big government plans.\n\nIncreasingly, liberals side with the homosexual agenda, including homosexual \"marriage\". Liberals favor a welfare state where people receive endless entitlements without working. The liberal ideology has degenerated into economically unsound views and intolerant ideology. All liberals support, in knee-jerk fashion, the opposite of conservative principles, while lacking an actual ideology or values of their own.\n\nSchlafly said in an interview with National Public Radio that Wikipedia's article on the history of the Democratic Party is an \"attempt to legitimize the modern Democratic Party by going back to Thomas Jefferson\" and that this statement is \"specious and worth criticizing\". He also has claimed that Wikipedia is \"six times more liberal than the American public\", a claim that has been labeled \"sensational\" by Andrew Chung of the Canadian newspaper the \"Toronto Star\".\n\nJohn Cotey of the \"St. Petersburg Times\" observed that the Conservapedia article about the Democratic Party contained a criticism about the party's alleged support for same-sex marriage, and associated the party with the homosexual agenda.\n\nThe Conservapedia entries on former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and President Barack Obama are critical of their respective subjects. During the 2008 presidential campaign, its entry on Obama asserted that he \"has no clear personal achievement that cannot be explained as the likely result of affirmative action\". Some Conservapedia editors urged that the statement be changed or deleted, but Schlafly, a classmate of Obama, responded by asserting that the \"Harvard Law Review\", the Harvard University legal journal for which Obama and Schlafly worked together, uses racial quotas and stated: \"The statement about affirmative action is accurate and will remain in the entry\". In addition, Hugh Muir of the British newspaper \"The Guardian\" mockingly referred to Conservapedia's assertion that Obama has links to radical Islam as \"dynamite\" and an excellent resource for \"US rightwingers\".\n\nIn contrast, the articles about conservative politicians, such as former U.S. Republican president Ronald Reagan and former British Conservative Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, have been observed as praising their respective subjects. Mark Sabbatini of the \"Juneau Empire\" considered the Conservapedia entry on Sarah Palin, the Republican vice-presidential candidate for the 2008 U.S. presidential election, a \"kinder, gentler\" and \"far shorter and less controversial\" reference for one wishing to learn about Palin in contrast with the corresponding Wikipedia entry, which Sabbatini found to be plagued by disputes over inclusion of potentially controversial details about her life.\n\nIn July 2008, \"American Prospect\" associate editor Ezra Klein derided the Conservapedia article on atheism in his weekly column: \"As Daniel DeGroot notes, you've got to wonder which 'unreasonable' explanations they rejected when formulating that entry\". To this day on Conservapedia, hundreds of articles assert that atheism is inseparably tied to such issues as anger, arrogance, narcissism, cowardice, emotional immaturity, hedonism, mass murder, depression, psychological disorders, lack of social skills, lack of intellectual or emotional intelligence, disregard for health and well-being, slavery or forced labor, and general lack of morality.\n\nThe website sometimes adopts a strongly critical stance against figures that it perceives as political or ideological opponents. For instance, in May 2009, \"Vanity Fair\" and \"The Spectator\" reported that Conservapedia's article on atheist Richard Dawkins featured a picture of Adolf Hitler at the top. The picture has since been moved to a lower position in the article.\n\nThe Conservapedia project has come under significant criticism for numerous factual inaccuracies and factual relativism. \"Wired\" magazine noted that Conservapedia was \"attracting lots of derisive comments on blogs and a growing number of phony articles written by mischief makers\". Iain Thomson in \"Information World Review\" wrote that \"leftist subversives\" may have been creating deliberate parody entries. Conservapedia has been compared to CreationWiki, a wiki written from a creationist perspective, and Theopedia, a wiki with a Reformed theology focus. Fox News obliquely compared it with other new conservative websites competing with mainstream ones, such as MyChurch, a Christian version of social networking site MySpace, and GodTube, a Christian version of video site YouTube.\n\nTom Flanagan, a conservative professor of political science at the University of Calgary, has argued that Conservapedia is more about religion, specifically Christianity, than political or social conservatism and that it \"is far more guilty of the crime they're attributing to Wikipedia\" than Wikipedia itself. Matt Millham of the military-oriented newspaper \"Stars and Stripes\" called Conservapedia \"a Web site that caters mostly to evangelical Christians\". Its scope as an encyclopedia, according to its founders, \"offers a historical record from a Christian and conservative perspective\". \"APC\" magazine perceives this to be representative of Conservapedia's own problem with bias. Conservative Christian commentator Rod Dreher has been highly critical of the website's \"Conservative Bible Project\", an ongoing retranslation of the Bible which Dreher attributes to \"insane hubris\" on the part of \"right-wing ideologues\".\n\nThe project has also been criticized for promoting a false dichotomy between conservatism and liberalism and for promoting relativism with the implicit idea that there \"often are two equally valid interpretations of the facts\". Matthew Sheffield, writing in the conservative daily newspaper \"The Washington Times\", argued that conservatives concerned about bias should contribute more often to Wikipedia rather than use Conservapedia as an alternative since he felt that alternative websites like Conservapedia are often \"incomplete\". Author Damian Thompson asserts that the purpose of Conservapedia is to \"dress up nonsense as science\".\n\nBryan Ochalla, writing for the LGBT magazine \"The Advocate\", referred to the project as \"Wikipedia for the bigoted\". On the satirical news program \"The Daily Show\", comedian Lewis Black lampooned its article on homosexuality. Writing in \"The Australian\", columnist Emma Jane described Conservapedia as \"a disturbing parallel universe where the ice age is a theoretical period, intelligent design is empirically testable, and relativity and geology are junk sciences.\"\n\nOpinions criticizing the site rapidly spread throughout the blogosphere around early 2007. Schlafly appeared on radio programs \"Today\" on BBC Radio 4 and \"All Things Considered\" on NPR to discuss the site around that time. In May 2008, Schlafly and one of his homeschooled students appeared on the CBC program \"The Hour\" for the same purpose.\n\nStephanie Simon of the \"Los Angeles Times\" quoted two Conservapedia editors who commented favorably about Conservapedia. Matt Barber, policy director for the conservative Christian political action group Concerned Women for America, praised Conservapedia as a more family-friendly and accurate alternative to Wikipedia.\n\n\"Wired\" magazine, in an article entitled \"Ten Impressive, Weird And Amazing Facts About Wikipedia\", highlighted several of Conservapedia's articles, including those on \"Atheism and obesity\" and \"Hollywood values\", amongst others. It also highlighted Conservapedia's \"Examples of bias in Wikipedia\" article, which encourages readers to contact Jimmy Wales and tell him to \"sort it out.\"\n\nConservapedia's use of Wikipedia's format to create a conservative Christian alternative encyclopedia has been mirrored by other sites, such as GodTube, QubeTV and MyChurch, which adopted the format of the more prominent YouTube and MySpace, respectively.\n\nWikipedia's co-creator Jimmy Wales said about Conservapedia that \"free culture knows no bounds\" and \"the reuse of our work to build variants [is] directly in line with our mission\". Wales denied Schlafly's claims of liberal bias in Wikipedia.\n\nIn April 2007, Peter Lipson, a doctor of internal medicine, attempted to edit Conservapedia's article on breast cancer to include evidence against Conservapedia's claim that abortion was linked to the disease. Schlafly and Conservapedia administrators \"questioned [Lipson's] credentials and shut down debate.\" After they were blocked, \"Lipson and several other contributors quit trying to moderate the articles [on Conservapedia] and instead started their own website, RationalWiki.\"\n\nRationalWiki's self-stated purpose is to analyze and refute \"pseudoscience\", the \"anti-science movement\", and \"crank ideas\", as well as to conduct \"explorations of authoritarianism and fundamentalism\" and explore \"how these subjects are handled in the media.\"\n\nAccording to an article published in the \"Los Angeles Times\" in 2007, RationalWiki members \"monitor Conservapedia. And—by their own admission—engage in acts of cyber-vandalism.\"\n\nOn June 9, 2008, \"New Scientist\" published an article describing Richard Lenski's 20-year \"E. coli\" experiment, which reported that the bacteria evolved the ability to metabolize citrate. Schlafly contacted Lenski to request the data. Lenski explained that the relevant data was in the paper and that Schlafly fundamentally misunderstood it. Schlafly wrote again and requested the raw data. Lenski replied again that the relevant data was already in the paper, that the \"raw data\" were living bacterial samples, which he would willingly share with qualified researchers at properly equipped biology labs, and that he felt insulted by letters and comments on Conservapedia which he saw as brusque and offensive, including claims of outright deceit. \"The Daily Telegraph\" later called Lenski's reply \"one of the greatest and most comprehensive put-downs in scientific argument\".\n\nThe exchange, recorded on a Conservapedia page entitled \"Lenski dialog\", was widely reported on news-aggregating sites and web logs. Carl Zimmer wrote that it was readily apparent that \"Schlafly had not bothered to read [Lenski's paper] closely\", and PZ Myers criticized Schlafly for demanding data despite having neither a plan to use it nor the expertise to analyze it. During and after the Lenski dialogue on Conservapedia, several users on the site were blocked for \"insubordination\" for expressing disagreement with Schlafly's stance on the issue.\n\nThe dialogue between Lenski and Conservapedia is noted in Richard Dawkins' \"\" in a chapter concerning Lenski's research.\n\nConservapedia hosts the \"Conservative Bible Project\", a project aiming to rewrite the English translation of the Bible in order to remove or alter terms described as \"liberal bias\". The project intends to remove sections of the Bible which are judged by Conservapedia's founder to be later liberal additions. These include the story of the adulteress in the Gospel of John in which Jesus declares \"Let him who is without sin cast the first stone\". The project also intends to remove Jesus's prayer on the cross, \"Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing\", since it appears only in the Gospel of Luke and since, according to Schlafly, \"the simple fact is that some of the persecutors of Jesus did know what they were doing. This quotation is a favorite of liberals but should not appear in a conservative Bible\".\n\nThe Bible project has met with extensive criticism, including from fellow evangelistic Christian conservatives. Rod Dreher, a conservative editor and columnist, described the project as \"insane hubris\" and \"crazy\"; he further described the project as \"It's like what you'd get if you crossed the Jesus Seminar with the College Republican chapter at a rural institution of Bible learnin. Ed Morrissey, another conservative Christian writer, wrote that bending the word of God to one's own ideology makes God subservient to an ideology, rather than the other way around. Creation Ministries International wrote \"Forcing the Bible to conform to a certain political agenda, no matter if one happens to agree with that agenda, is a perversion of the Word of God and should therefore be opposed by Christians as much as 'politically correct' Bibles.\"\n\nOn October 7, 2009, Stephen Colbert called for his viewers to incorporate him into the Conservapedia Bible as a Biblical figure and viewers responded by editing the Conservapedia Bible to include his name. This was followed by an interview between Colbert and Schlafly on December 8, 2009.\n"}
{"id": "25914154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25914154", "title": "Coup d'état", "text": "Coup d'état\n\nA coup d'état (; ), also known simply as a coup, a putsch (), golpe, or an overthrow, is an illegal and overt seizure of a state by the military or other elites within the state apparatus.\n\nThe phrase \"coup d'état\" is French, literally meaning a \"stroke of state\" or \"blow against the state\". In French, the word \"État\" (), denoting a sovereign political entity, is capitalized.\n\nAlthough the concept of a \"coup d'état\" has featured in politics since antiquity, the phrase is of relatively recent coinage; the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" identifies it as a French expression meaning a \"stroke of state\". The phrase did not appear within an English text before the 19th century except when used in translation of a French source, there being no simple phrase in English to convey the contextualized idea of a \"knockout blow to the existing administration within a state\".\n\nOne early use within text translated from French was in 1785 in a printed translation of a letter from a French merchant, commenting on an arbitrary decree or \"arrêt\" issued by the French king restricting the import of British wool. What may be its first published use within a text composed in English is an editor's note in the London \"Morning Chronicle\", 7 January 1802, reporting the arrest by Napoleon in France, of Moreau, Berthier, Masséna, and Bernadotte:\n\nThere was a report in circulation yesterday of a sort of \"coup d'état\" having taken place in France, in consequence of some formidable conspiracy against the existing government.\nIn post-Revolutionary France, the phrase came to be used to describe the various murders by Napoleon's hated secret police, the Gens d'Armes d'Elite, who murdered the Duke of Enghien:\n...the actors in torture, the distributors of the poisoning draughts, and the secret executioners of those unfortunate individuals or families, whom Bonaparte's measures of safety require to remove. In what revolutionary tyrants call \"grand\"[s]\" coups d'état\", as butchering, or poisoning, or drowning, \"en masse\", they are exclusively employed.\nClayton Thyne and Jonathan Powell's dataset of coups defines attempted coups as \"illegal and overt attempts by the military or other elites within the state apparatus to unseat the sitting executive.\" They arrive at this definition by combining common definitions in the existing literature and removing specificities and ambiguities that exist in many definitions.\n\nIn looser usage, as in \"intelligence coup\" or \"boardroom coup\", the term simply refers to gaining a sudden advantage on a rival.\n\nSince an unsuccessful \"coup d'état\" in 1920 (the Kapp Putsch), the Swiss-German word \"Putsch\" (pronounced , coined for the Züriputsch of 6 September 1839, in Zurich), also denotes the politico-military actions of an unsuccessful minority reactionary coup.\n\nOther recent and notable unsuccessful minority reactionary coups that are often referred to as \"Putsches\" are the 1923 Beer Hall Putsch and Küstrin Putsch, 1961 Algiers Putsch and the 1991 August Putsch.\n\"Putsch\" was used as disinformation by Hitler and his Nazi supporters to falsely claim that he had to suppress a reactionary coup during the Night of the Long Knives. Germans still use the term to describe the murders, the term given to it by the Nazi regime, despite its unproven implication that the murders were necessary to prevent a coup. Thus, German authors often use quotation marks or write about the (\"so-called Röhm Putsch\") for emphasis.\n\nOne author makes a distinction between a coup and a . In a coup, it is the military, paramilitary, or opposing political faction that deposes the current government and assumes power; whereas, in the , the military deposes the existing government and installs an (ostensibly) civilian government.\n\nAccording to Clayton Thyne and Jonathan Powell's coup dataset, there were 457 coup attempts from 1950 to 2010, of which 227 (49.7%) were successful and 230 (50.3%) were unsuccessful. They find that coups have \"been most common in Africa and the Americas (36.5% and 31.9%, respectively). Asia and the Middle East have experienced 13.1% and 15.8% of total global coups, respectively. Europe has experienced by far the fewest number of coup attempts: 2.6%.\" Most coup attempts occurred in the mid-1960s, but there were also large numbers of coup attempts in the mid-1970s and the early 1990s. Successful coups have decreased over time. Coups that occur in the post-Cold War period are more likely to result in democratic systems. Coups that occur during civil wars shorten the war's duration. Research suggests that protests spur coups, as they help elites within the state apparatus to coordinate coups.\n\nA 2016 study categorizes coups into four possible outcomes:\n\nThe study also found that about half of all coups — both during and after the Cold War — install new autocratic regimes. New dictatorships launched by coups engage in higher levels of repression in the year that follows the coup than existed in the year leading to the coup. One third of coups during the Cold War and 10 percent of post-Cold War coups reshuffled the regime leadership. Democracies were installed in the wake of 12 percent of Cold War coups and 40 percent of the post-Cold War coups.\n\nA 2003 review of the academic literature found that the following factors were associated with coups:\n\n\nThe literature review in a 2016 study includes mentions of ethnic factionalism, supportive foreign governments, leader inexperience, slow growth, commodity price shocks, and poverty.\n\nThe cumulative number of coups is a strong predictor of future coups. Hybrid regimes are more vulnerable to coups than very authoritarian states or democratic states. A 2015 study finds that terrorism is strongly associated with re-shuffling coups. A 2016 study finds that there is an ethnic component to coups: \"When leaders attempt to build ethnic armies, or dismantle those created by their predecessors, they provoke violent resistance from military officers.\" Another 2016 study shows that protests increase the risk of coups, presumably because they ease coordination obstacles among coup plotters and make international actors less likely to punish coup leaders. A third 2016 study finds that coups become more likely in the wake of elections in autocracies when the results reveal electoral weakness for the incumbent autocrat. A fourth 2016 study finds that inequality between social classes increase the likelihood of coups. A fifth 2016 study rejects the notion that participation in war makes coups more likely; to the contrary, coup risk declines in the presence of enduring interstate conflict. A sixth 2016 study finds no evidence that coups are contagious; one coup in a region does not make other coups in the region likely to follow. One study found that coups are more likely to occur in states with small populations, as there are smaller coordination problems for coup-plotters.\n\nA 2017 study in the journal \"Security Studies\" found that autocratic leaders whose states were involved in international rivalries over disputed territory were more likely to be overthrown in a coup. The authors of the study provide the following logic for why this is: \"Autocratic incumbents invested in spatial rivalries need to strengthen the military in order to compete with a foreign adversary. The imperative of developing a strong army puts dictators in a paradoxical situation: to compete with a rival state, they must empower the very agency—the military—that is most likely to threaten their own survival in office.\" However, a 2016 study in the journal \"Conflict Management and Peace Science\" found that leaders who were involved in militarized confrontations and conflicts were less likely to face a coup in the year following the dispute.\n\nA 2018 study in the \"Journal of Peace Research\" found that coup attempts were less likely in states where the militaries derived significant incomes from peacekeeping missions. The study argued that militaries were dissuaded from staging coups because they feared that the UN would no longer enlist the military in peacekeeping missions.\n\nA 2018 study in the \"Economic Journal\" found that \"oil price shocks are seen to promote coups in onshore-intensive oil countries, while preventing them in offshore-intensive oil countries.\" The study argues that states which have onshore oil wealth tend to build up their military to protect the oil, whereas states do not do that for offshore oil wealth.\n\nA 2018 study in the \"Journal of Conflict Resolution\" found that the presence of military academies were linked to coups. The authors argue that military academies make it easier for military officers to plan coups, as the schools build networks among military officers.\n\nIn what is referred to as \"coup-proofing\", regimes create structures that make it hard for any small group to seize power. These coup-proofing strategies may include the strategic placing of family, ethnic, and religious groups in the military; creation of an armed force parallel to the regular military, and development of multiple internal security agencies with overlapping jurisdiction that constantly monitor one another. Research shows that some coup-proofing strategies reduce the risk of coups occurring. However, coup-proofing reduces military effectiveness, and limits the rents that an incumbent can extract.\n\nA 2016 study shows that the implementation of succession rules reduce coup attempts. Succession rules are believed to hamper coordination efforts among coup plotters by assuaging the elites who have more to gain with patience than with plotting.\n\nAccording to political scientists Curtis Bell and Jonathan Powell, coup attempts in neighbouring countries lead to greater coup-proofing and coup-related repression in a region. A 2017 study finds that countries’ coup-proofing strategies are heavily influenced by other countries with similar histories.\n\nA 2018 study in the \"Journal of Peace Research\" found that leaders who survive coup attempts and respond by purging known and potential rivals are likely to have longer tenures as leaders.\n\nResearch suggests that coups promoting democratization in staunchly authoritarian regimes, have become less likely to end democracy over time, and that the positive influence has strengthened since the end of the Cold War.\n\nA 2014 study found that \"coups promote democratization, particularly among states that are least likely to democratize otherwise\". The authors argue that coup attempts can have this consequence because leaders of successful coups have incentives to democratize quickly in order to establish political legitimacy and economic growth while leaders who stay in power after failed coup attempts see it as a sign that they must enact meaningful reforms to remain in power. A 2014 study found that 40% of post-Cold War coups were successful. The authors argue that this may be due to the incentives created by international pressure. A 2016 study found that democracies were installed in 12 percent of Cold War coups and 40 percent of the post-Cold War coups.\n\nAccording to Naunihal Singh, author of \"Seizing Power: The Strategic Logic of Military Coups\" (2014), it is \"fairly rare\" for the prevailing existing government to violently purge the army after a coup has been foiled. If it starts mass killing elements of the army, including officers who were not involved in the coup, this may trigger a \"counter-coup\" by soldiers who are afraid they will be next. To prevent such a desperate counter-coup that may be more successful than the initial attempt, governments usually resort to firing prominent officers and replacing them with loyalists instead.\n\nSome research suggests that increased repression and violence typically follow coup attempts (whether they're successes or failures). However, some tentative analysis by political scientist Jay Ulfelder finds no clear pattern of deterioration in human-rights practices in wake of failed coups in post-Cold War era.\n\nNotable counter-coups include the Ottoman countercoup of 1909, the 1960 Laotian counter-coup, the 1965-66 Indonesian mass killings, the 1966 Nigerian counter-coup, the 1967 Greek counter-coup, and the 1971 Sudanese counter-coup.\n\nA 2017 study finds that the use of state broadcasting by the putschist regime after Mali’s 2012 coup did not elevate explicit approval for the regime.\n\nThe international community tends to react adversely to coups by reducing aid and imposing sanctions. A 2015 study finds that \"coups against democracies, coups after the Cold War, and coups in states heavily integrated into the international community are all more likely to elicit global reaction.\" Another 2015 study shows that coups are the strongest predictor for the imposition of democratic sanctions. A third 2015 study finds that Western states react strongest against coups of possible democratic and human rights abuses. A 2016 study shows that the international donor community in the post-Cold War period penalizes coups by reducing foreign aid\".\" The US has been inconsistent in applying aid sanctions against coups both during the Cold War and post-Cold War periods, a likely consequence of its geopolitical interests.\n\nOrganizations such as the African Union and Organization of American States have adopted anti-coup frameworks. Through the threat of sanctions, the organizations actively try to curb coups. A 2016 study finds that the African Union has played a meaningful role in reducing African coups.\n\nA forthcoming study in the Journal of Conflict Resolution finds that negative international responses to regimes created in coups have a significant influence on the sustainability of those regimes. The study finds that \"state reactions have the strongest effect during the Cold War, while international organizations matter the most afterward.\" Negative international responses from strong actors matter the most.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17851450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17851450", "title": "Defense Intelligence Headquarters", "text": "Defense Intelligence Headquarters\n\nThe is a signals intelligence agency of the Japanese government, under the jurisdiction of the Japanese Ministry of Defense. It is currently one of the biggest Japanese intelligence agencies, with its creation and structure modeled after the American Defense Intelligence Agency.\n\nBack in the 1980s, the former Japanese Defense Agency had several intelligence divisions with different duties. Among these intelligence division in the Defense Agency had included those from the Central Data Command Unit, the Joint Staff Council's Second Office and the three branches of the Japan Self-Defense Forces (JSDF). A supposed plan to integrate the intelligence divisions of the three JSDF branches started in 1988 before lack of cooperation and subordination ended it.\n\nPlans to consolidate all the intelligence bureaus of the old Defense Administration into one agency had started in the 1990s after the National Diet had passed a law on May 1996, calling for the creation of a central military intelligence agency before the DIH was eventually established on January 20, 1997 after intelligence units from the JSDF, Japanese Defense Agency and the Joint Staff council are united with the appointment of Lieutenant General Kunimi Masahiro as the agency's first commanding officer. Initially, DIH civilian and military staff members were numbered at 1,580 with a planned manpower of 2,000 personnel before it reached its current manpower of 2,300 staff members. In 2011, the manpower is 1,907 members\n\nSpy satellites had been planned for launch in 1998 as part of augmenting the DIH's intelligence gathering capabilities. Though two were able to launch into space, two more were destroyed in a botch attempt to send them to space.\n\nIn 2005, the DIH has suffered its first internal leak of classified information when a Colonel in the JASDF had been arrested for allegedly leaking information regarding the accident of a People's Liberation Army Navy Submarine that took place in the same year in the South China Sea\n\nThe DIH had announced in 2006 that a liaison office was established in Washington, D.C. with the National Security Agency.\n\n\nThe DIH is under the jurisdiction of the Joint Staff and is controlled by the Defense Intelligence Committee, which is made up of the Chiefs of Staff of the JGSDF, JMSDF and JASDF along with the Chief of Staff, Joint Staff, State Minister of Defense and the Minister of Defense.\n\nCommand of the DIH was given directly to the Japanese Minister of Defense on March 2006.\n\nThe SIGINT facilities managed by the Chobetsu (Chosa Besshitsu) or the Annex Chamber, Second Section, Second Investigation Division in English, from 1958 to 1997 is managed by the DIH.\n\nA number of divisions were established under the DIH, including the following:\n\nThe main role of the DIH is to collect information and analyse for planning defense and operation policy. The agency collect information from open sources, signals and image intelligence as well as from other Japanese government ministries, Japanese embassies and other affiliated ministries and organizations. In addition, they also gather intelligence through surveillance activities.\n\nThe seal of the DIH consist of the following symbols:\n\nDIH directors are usually positioned by a Lieutenant General from the JGSDF/JASDF or a Vice Admiral from the JMSDF.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49516413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49516413", "title": "Dhaka University Debating Society", "text": "Dhaka University Debating Society\n\nDhaka University Debating Society shortly known as (ডি.ইউ.ডি.এস.) DUDS, is an organization that is connected with Bangladesh Debate movement. According to the full guideline of Dhaka University authority this organization is working to spread debate by the students of Dhaka University. Dhaka University debating society is economically supported by the senate of Dhaka University\n\n\n\n\nAny student of Dhaka University can be a member of DUDS according to the nature of this organization. Anyone can join in English and Bengali session every week. Generally members are collected during starting time of a year. Besides, it can be registered from different hall debating clubs or associate organizations.\n\n\nEvery year DUDS publishes two annual publications having name 'Protibak' and 'Prottus'. It also distributes among with debators. Commemorative books of National debate festival is also published. Its also includes some others publications.\n"}
{"id": "52006839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52006839", "title": "Dizzy with Success", "text": "Dizzy with Success\n\n\"Dizzy with Success: Concerning Questions of the Collective-Farm Movement\" () is an article by Joseph Stalin that was published in \"Pravda\" on March 2, 1930. In the article, Stalin claimed that agricultural collectivization had been carried out with excessive zeal, leading to \"excesses\" that had to be corrected.\n"}
{"id": "47751863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47751863", "title": "Dominant narrative", "text": "Dominant narrative\n\nDominant narrative can be used to describe the lens in which history is told by the perspective of the dominant culture. This term has been described as an \"invisible hand\" that guides reality and perceived reality. Dominant narrative can refer to multiple aspects of life, such as history, politics, or different activist groups. Dominant culture is defined as the majority cultural practices of a society. Narrative can be defined as story telling, either true or imaginary. Pairing these two terms together create the notion of dominant narrative, that only the majority story is told and therefore heard. It is a common theme to hear or learn only about the dominant narrative as it comprises the perspective of the majority culture. Examples of dominant narrative can be seen throughout history. Dominant narrative can be defined and decided by the sociopolitical and socioeconomic setting someone lives his or her life in. \n\nDominant narrative is similar in some ways to the ideas of metanarrative or grand narrative. These two terms refer to the notion that there is a common lived experience, or a totalizing narrative, experience, or account of history. Unlike the above terms, dominant narrative as a concept is used to explain not just only that there is one narrative told, but what makes it possible for that to be the narrative that is told. This term addresses what the reasons are that the dominant narrative is, in fact, dominant or the majority account.\n\nIt is also important to look at who is not included in the dominant narrative and how this can affect society and people in those marginalized groups. Not everyone has access to being a part of the dominant narrative. Counter-narrative has been coined as the term regarding the stories and lived experiences of those not in the dominant narrative or not allowed to be a part of it. Counter-narrative are used as a way to share minorities stories excluded and combat the dominant narrative. \n\nThe dominant narrative can most often be seen as those that occupy scholar Judith Lorber's A-Categories. Lorber defines and describes A-category members as those that occupy the dominant group in different aspects of life. For example, that can be seen in the topic of race (human categorization) with white being the A-category and all minorities being the not-A; or in the topic of gender with man being the A-category while woman being the not-A. This notion includes all intersectionalities such as age, sexual orientation, CIS/Transgender, ableism, education, and citizenship. The dominant narrative are those that take part in and benefit from being associated with the dominant culture. Having forms of privilege and power that come from being in Lorber's A Categories, can directly relate to being in the dominant culture. The dominant narrative simply consists of whose voice can be recognized and represented when retelling stories, or whose voice/story is perceived as valid or real.\n\nThere are a number of critiques and concerns with there being a dominant narrative in society. Many of the critiques of there being a dominant narrative come from the exclusion of counter-narratives. To fully understand what the dominant narrative is and understand examples of it is necessary to understand its limitations. Some limitations with there being a dominant narrative include the following:\n\nHaving a dominant narrative can create a notion that there is a metanarrative among the dominant group, meaning all apart of the dominant group are experiencing life the same way. In using the example of the caucasian dominant narrative, this would mean that all Caucasians of somewhat similar sociopolitical and socioeconomic standing are experiencing life and events the same, and that is not true. A dominant narrative can generalize the lived experiences of people within the dominant culture. The metanarrative among the dominant culture creates the notion that whiteness is the norm, and that the dominant culture is the normal culture to which other cultures need to adapt. The perceived sense of normalcy can be very problematic because it encourages people within the majority to not change and question what could be wrong with having such a strong dominant narrative. \n\nHaving a dominant narrative based on the dominant culture, therefore means anyone not in the dominant culture cannot be a part of the dominant narrative. Since the dominant narrative is accepted as the norm this, therefore, means those not in the dominant narrative are abnormal. Someone's narrative and perceived narrative can greatly affect how someone views themselves and relates to themselves. If someone is not part of the dominant narrative and their story is not being told, that means their lived experiences are being ignored and in turn written out of history. Lived experiences, similar to counter-narratives, can be defined as everyday experiences people face and most often referring to those in the minority group. Lived experiences have also been called material realities, meaning that they are the real, tangible experiences and realities that people live on a daily basis, even if they are counter to the dominant narrative. Terry is cited for explaining how inequalities, can affect which narrative and tellings are able to be heard and which aren't. If the stories of people with inequalities are not heard, then this completely ignores them, and any agency they could have in society.\n\nJeyn Roberts is quoted for saying \"there are three sides to every story. Yours. Mine. What really happened: the truth.\" Dominant narrative makes it so only one side of any story is told, this completely ignores any other sides or even the truth. By definition, a dominant narrative does not include every and all aspects of any event. By only learning about and studying the dominant narrative then people are only being educated partially about any historical or current events. This creates a false historical account of most of history. Winston Churchill has been associated with the saying \"history is written by the victors.\" This saying directly relates to the concept of dominant narrative and how the full truth of events as it relates to minorities is not being retold. This means that through mainstream education and media people are not being put forth the most accurate information and historical accounts.\n\nDominant narrative can be seen in almost any aspect of life from media, history, advertising, and activism. The following are some examples of places dominant narrative can be present:\n\nHistory is one of the most important fields to acknowledge that dominant narrative is present. It is important for people to have a full and accurate understanding of historical events, this is often muddled by the dominant narrative. A historical example of dominant narrative ignoring contributions of people of color can be seen in the military realm. A historical example of black men being ignored for their contributions to the US Military can be understood in the instance of the Tuskegee Airmen. The Tuskegee Airmen was a program based out of Tuskegee, AZ in 1941, in which African-American men were trained and educated in multiple aspects relating to war aircraft. Due to racist ideologies many opposed African-American men being trained to become US Military pilots. Although the Tuskegee Airman overcame great obstacles and contributed immensely to US Military acts in World War II, they have not been given considerable recognition until Bill Clinton commemorated Tuskegee as a national historic site. Even though the Tuskegee Airmen deserved recognition for all they were contributing to the war and in terms of overcoming racial prejudices, because of the WWII dominant narrative they were not given recognition until people fought for their behalf. There are many other historical contributions made by people not in the dominant culture, which are never retroactively recognized and acknowledged. \n\nLike historical accounts, journalism and news media can also be framed in the dominant narrative lens. This historical dominant narrative can affect what news people are actually being exposed to. This is problematic because only news that the dominant narrative deems important receives the most media attention. \nAn example of the dominant narrative at play in the media can be seen in the way the Rwandan Genocide was almost completely ignored by Western media and news. This genocide consists of the ethnic majority group, the Hutu, attempting to extinguish the Tutsi ethnic group. Initially, the Rwandan Genocide was not framed by the media as a genocide, in an attempt to ignore the severity of the event. The early developments of the Rwandan Genocide where minimalized as a way to justify a lack of intervention by many countries. Since the events in Rwanda did not directly affect US citizens the genocide did not seem to be as big of a deal in media, especially because the genocide consisted of black non-Americans this genocide was hardly discussed, as it is a counter-narrative to the dominant narrative. But even when race is not a factor at play the mass media can shape the dominant narrative in a way to instil indifference and avoid intervention. This happened, for instance, during the early phases of the breakup of Yugoslavia, as many international authorities disputed and denied that a genocide was taking place in Bosnia. \n\nPeople who do not fit into the dominant narrative can also be written out of activist movements, and in turn written out of history later on. There are some needs and intersections of privilege that are necessary to participate in some forms of activism. Not everyone is able to participate in activist work because of their socioeconomic status, their sociopolitical status, their job safety, their families or childcare needs. Limitations like those just mentioned can greatly affect who is active and participates in social activism. Because someone, most likely not in the dominant culture, may not have the means to participate that means their narrative may not be shared. An example of dominant narrative in activism can be seen in Women's rights movements. First-wave feminism has been critiqued for a lack of inclusion of black women and race in their movements. Feminist history is often explained in a framework of the contributions made by white affluent and educated American or British women. White women with higher socioeconomic standings were not the only women that took part in the first-wave feminist activism, but most often were the only ones that were given access to political gains and recognition.\n"}
{"id": "24670790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24670790", "title": "FIMACO", "text": "FIMACO\n\nFinancial Management Company Ltd (FIMACO) was a Jersey company founded in 1990.\n\nIn a 1991 report, former KGB colonel Leonid Veselovsky, whose responsibility was to manage Communist Party commercial affairs overseas, told that he had found ways to funnel party money abroad. The stated goal was to ensure the financial well-being of party leaders after they lost power.\nLarge amounts of state assets were transferred through this company. One estimate is about US$50 billion.\nThe people with access to FIMACO included senior officers of the Communist Party, Komsomol, state banks, KGB, and the military.\nA 1993 document signed by a senior deputy to Viktor Gerashchenko, the head of the Central Bank of Russia, forbid disclosure of transfers to FIMACO: \"The balance of the investment account of the [Central Bank] in FIMACO shouldn't be disclosed on the balance sheet of the bank.\"\n\nFIMACO's existence was disclosed by Russia's chief prosecutor Yuri Skuratov in February 1999. Soon afterwards, FSB chief Vladimir Putin attacked Skuratov with a campaign which included a video where Skuratov allegedly has sex with two prostitutes.\n\nRussian officials claimed that it was 100% owned by the state-owned Banque Commerciale pour l’Europe du Nord, but never provided any proof according to a \"Newsweek\" article in March 1999.\n\nAccording to Sergei Tretyakov, KGB chief Vladimir Kryuchkov sent US$50 billion worth of funds of the Communist Party to an unknown location in the lead up to the collapse of the USSR.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1015869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1015869", "title": "Foreign-exchange reserves", "text": "Foreign-exchange reserves\n\nForeign-exchange reserves (also called forex reserves or FX reserves) is money or other assets held by a central bank or other monetary authority so that it can pay its liabilities if needed, such as the currency issued by the central bank, as well as the various bank reserves deposited with the central bank by the government and other financial institutions. Reserves are held in one or more reserve currencies, mostly the United States dollar and to a lesser extent the Euro.\n\nIn a strict sense, foreign-exchange reserves should only include foreign banknotes, foreign bank deposits, foreign treasury bills, and short and long-term foreign government securities. However, the term in popular usage also adds gold reserves, special drawing rights (SDRs), and International Monetary Fund (IMF) reserve positions. This broader figure is more readily available, but it is more accurately termed official international reserves or international reserves.\n\nForeign-exchange reserves are called reserve assets in the balance of payments and are located in the capital account. Hence, they are usually an important part of the international investment position of a country. The reserves are labeled as reserve assets under assets by functional category. In terms of financial assets classifications, the reserve assets can be classified as Gold bullion, Unallocated gold accounts, Special drawing rights, currency, Reserve position in the IMF, interbank position, other transferable deposits, other deposits, debt securities, loans, equity (listed and unlisted), investment fund shares and financial derivatives, such as forward contracts and options. There is no counterpart for reserve assets in liabilities of the International Investment Position. Usually, when the monetary authority of a country has some kind of liability, this will be included in other categories, such as Other Investments. In the Central Bank’s Balance Sheet, foreign exchange reserves are assets, along with domestic credit.\n\nOfficial international reserves assets allow a central bank to purchase the domestic currency, which is considered a liability for the central bank (since it prints the money or fiat currency as IOUs). Thus, the quantity of foreign exchange reserves can change as a central bank implements monetary policy, but this dynamic should be analyzed generally in the context of the level of capital mobility, the exchange rate regime and other factors. This is known as Trilemma or Impossible trinity. Hence, in a world of perfect capital mobility, a country with fixed exchange rate would not be able to execute an independent monetary policy.\n\nA central bank that implements a fixed exchange rate policy may face a situation where supply and demand would tend to push the value of the currency lower or higher (an increase in demand for the currency would tend to push its value higher, and a decrease lower) and thus the central bank would have to use reserves to maintain its fixed exchange rate. Under perfect capital mobility, the change in reserves is a temporary measure, since the fixed exchange rate attaches the domestic monetary policy to that of the country of the base currency. Hence, in the long term, the monetary policy has to be adjusted in order to be compatible with that of the country of the base currency. Without that, the country will experience outflows or inflows of capital. \nFixed pegs were usually used as a form of monetary policy, since attaching the domestic currency to a currency of a country with lower levels of inflation should usually assure convergence of prices.\n\nIn a pure flexible exchange rate regime or floating exchange rate regime, the central bank does not intervene in the exchange rate dynamics; hence the exchange rate is determined by the market. Theoretically, in this case reserves are not necessary. Other instruments of monetary policy are generally used, such as interest rates in the context of an inflation targeting regime. Milton Friedman was a strong advocate of flexible exchange rates, since he considered that independent monetary (and in some cases fiscal) policy and openness of the capital account are more valuable than a fixed exchange rate. Also, he valued the role of exchange rate as a price. As a matter of fact, he believed that sometimes it could be less painful and thus desirable to adjust only one price (the exchange rate) than the whole set of prices of goods and wages of the economy, that are less flexible.\n\nMixed exchange rate regimes ('dirty floats', target bands or similar variations) may require the use of foreign exchange operations to maintain the targeted exchange rate within the prescribed limits, such as fixed exchange rate regimes. \nAs seen above, there is an intimate relation between exchange rate policy (and hence reserves accumulation) and monetary policy. Foreign exchange operations can be sterilized (have their effect on the money supply negated via other financial transactions) or unsterilized.\n\nNon-sterilization will cause an expansion or contraction in the amount of domestic currency in circulation, and hence directly affect inflation and monetary policy. For example, to maintain the same exchange rate if there is increased demand, the central bank can issue more of the domestic currency and purchase foreign currency, which will increase the sum of foreign reserves. Since (if there is no sterilization) the domestic money supply is increasing (money is being 'printed'), this may provoke domestic inflation. Also, some central banks may let the exchange rate appreciate to control inflation, usually by the channel of cheapening tradable goods.\n\nSince the amount of foreign reserves available to defend a weak currency (a currency in low demand) is limited, a currency crisis or devaluation could be the end result. For a currency in very high and rising demand, foreign exchange reserves can theoretically be continuously accumulated, if the intervention is sterilized through open market operations to prevent inflation from rising. On the other hand, this is costly, since the sterilization is usually done by public debt instruments (in some countries Central Banks are not allowed to emit debt by themselves).\nIn practice, few central banks or currency regimes operate on such a simplistic level, and numerous other factors (domestic demand, production and productivity, imports and exports, relative prices of goods and services, etc.) will affect the eventual outcome. Besides that, the hypothesis that the world economy operates under perfect capital mobility is clearly flawed.\n\nAs a consequence, even those central banks that strictly limit foreign exchange interventions often recognize that currency markets can be volatile and may intervene to counter disruptive short-term movements (that may include speculative attacks). Thus, intervention does not mean that they are defending a specific exchange rate level. Hence, the higher the reserves, the higher is the capacity of the central bank to smooth the volatility of the Balance of Payments and assure consumption smoothing in the long term.\n\nAfter the end of the Bretton Woods system in the early 1970s, many countries adopted flexible exchange rates. In theory reserves are not needed under this type of exchange rate arrangement; thus the expected trend should be a decline in foreign exchange reserves. However, the opposite happened and foreign reserves present a strong upward trend. Reserves grew more than gross domestic product (GDP) and imports in many countries. The only ratio that is relatively stable is foreign reserves over M2. Below are some theories that can explain this trend.\n\nRatios relating reserves to other external sector variables are popular among credit risk agencies and international organizations to assess the external vulnerability of a country. For example, Article IV of 2013 uses total external debt to gross international reserves, gross international reserves in months of prospective goods and nonfactor services imports to broad money, broad money to short-term external debt, and short-term external debt to short-term external debt on residual maturity basis plus current account deficit. Therefore, countries with similar characteristics accumulate reserves to avoid negative assessment by the financial market, especially when compared to members of a peer group.\n\nReserves are used as savings for potential times of crises, especially balance of payments crises. Original fears were related to the current account, but this gradually changed to also include financial account needs. Furthermore, the creation of the IMF was viewed as a response to the need of countries to accumulate reserves. If a specific country is suffering from a balance of payments crisis, it would be able to borrow from the IMF. However, the process of obtaining resources from the Fund is not automatic, which can cause problematic delays especially when markets are stressed. Therefore, the fund only serves as a provider of resources for longer term adjustments. Also, when the crisis is generalized, the resources of the IMF could prove insufficient. After the 2008 crisis, the members of the Fund had to approve a capital increase, since its resources were strained. Moreover, after the 1997 Asian crisis, reserves in Asian countries increased because of doubt in the IMF reserves. Also, during the 2008 crisis, the Federal Reserve instituted currency swap lines with several countries, alleviating liquidity pressures in dollars, thus reducing the need to use reserves.\n\nMost countries engage in international trade, so to ensure no interruption, reserves are important. A rule usually followed by central banks is to hold the equivalency of at least three months of imports in foreign currency. Also, an increase in reserves occurred when commercial openness increased (part of the process known as globalization). Reserve accumulation was faster than that which would be explained by trade, since the ratio has increased to several months of imports. Furthermore, the external trade factor explains why the ratio of reserves in months of imports is closely watched by credit risk agencies.\n\nThe opening of a financial account of the balance of payments has been important during the last decade. Hence, financial flows such as direct investment and portfolio investment became more important. Usually financial flows are more volatile that enforce the necessity of higher reserves. Moreover, holding reserves, as a consequence of the increasing of financial flows, is known as Guidotti–Greenspan rule that states a country should hold liquid reserves equal to their foreign liabilities coming due within a year. For example, international wholesale financing relied more on Korean banks in the aftermath of the 2008 crisis, when the Korean Won depreciated strongly, because the Korean banks' ratio of short-term external debt to reserves was close to 100%, which exacerbated the perception of vulnerability.\n\nReserve accumulation can be an instrument to interfere with the exchange rate. Since the first General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) of 1948 to the foundation of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1995, the regulation of trade is a major concern for most countries throughout the world. Hence, commercial distortions such as subsidies and taxes are strongly discouraged. However, there is no global framework to regulate financial flows. As an example of regional framework, members of the European Union are prohibited from introducing capital controls, except in an extraordinary situation. The dynamics of China’s trade balance and reserve accumulation during the first decade of the 2000 was one of the main reasons for the interest in this topic.\nSome economists are trying to explain this behavior. Usually, the explanation is based on a sophisticated variation of mercantilism, such as to protect the take-off in the tradable sector of an economy, by avoiding the real exchange rate appreciation that would naturally arise from this process. One attempt uses a standard model of open economy intertemporal consumption to show that it is possible to replicate a tariff on imports or a subsidy on exports by closing the current account and accumulating reserves. Another is more related to the economic growth literature. The argument is that the tradable sector of an economy is more capital intense than the non-tradable sector. The private sector invests too little in capital, since it fails to understand the social gains of a higher capital ratio given by externalities (like improvements in human capital, higher competition, technological spillovers and increasing returns to scale). The government could improve the equilibrium by imposing subsidies and tariffs, but the hypothesis is that the government is unable to distinguish between good investment opportunities and rent seeking schemes. Thus, reserves accumulation would correspond to a loan to foreigners to purchase a quantity of tradable goods from the economy. In this case, the real exchange rate would depreciate and the growth rate would increase. In some cases, this could improve welfare, since the higher growth rate would compensate the loss of the tradable goods that could be consumed or invested. In this context, foreigners have the role to choose only the useful tradable goods sectors.\n\nReserve accumulation can be seen as a way of \"forced savings\". The government, by closing the financial account, would force the private sector to buy domestic debt in the lack of better alternatives. With these resources, the government buys foreign assets. Thus, the government coordinates the savings accumulation in the form of reserves. Sovereign wealth funds are examples of governments that try to save the windfall of booming exports as long-term assets to be used when the source of the windfall is extinguished.\n\nThere are costs in maintaining large currency reserves. Price fluctuations in exchange markets result in gains and losses in the purchasing power of reserves. In addition to fluctuations in exchange rates, the purchasing power of fiat money decreases constantly due to devaluation through inflation. Therefore, a central bank must continually increase the amount of its reserves to maintain the same power to manipulate exchange rates. Reserves of foreign currency provide a small return in interest. However, this may be less than the reduction in purchasing power of that currency over the same period of time due to inflation, effectively resulting in a negative return known as the \"quasi-fiscal cost\". In addition, large currency reserves could have been invested in higher yielding assets.\n\nSeveral calculations have been attempted to measure the cost of reserves. The traditional one is the spread between government debt and the yield on reserves. The caveat is that higher reserves can decrease the perception of risk and thus the government bond interest rate, so this measures can overstate the cost. Alternatively, another measure compares the yield in reserves with the alternative scenario of the resources being invested in capital stock to the economy, which is hard to measure. One interesting measure tries to compare the spread between short term foreign borrowing of the private sector and yields on reserves, recognizing that reserves can correspond to a transfer between the private and the public sectors. By this measure, the cost can reach 1% of GDP to developing countries. While this is high, it should be viewed as an insurance against a crisis that could easily cost 10% of GDP to a country. In the context of theoretical economic models it is possible to simulate economies with different policies (accumulate reserves or not) and directly compare the welfare in terms of consumption. Results are mixed, since they depend on specific features of the models.\n\nA case to point out is that of the Swiss National Bank, the central bank of Switzerland. The Swiss franc is regarded as a safe haven currency, so it usually appreciates during market's stress. In the aftermath of the 2008 crisis and during the initial stages of the Eurozone crisis, the Swiss franc (CHF) appreciated sharply. The central bank resisted appreciation by buying reserves. After accumulating reserves during 15 months until June 2010, the SNB let the currency appreciate. As a result, the loss with the devaluation of reserves just in 2010 amounted to CHF 27 Billion or 5% of GDP(part of this was compensated by the profit of almost CHF6 Billion due to the surge in the price of gold). In 2011, after the currency appreciated against the Euro from 1.5 to 1.1, the SNB announced a ceiling at the value of CHF 1.2. In the middle of 2012, reserves reached 71% of GDP.\n\nThe modern exchange market as tied to the prices of gold began during 1880. Of this year the countries significant by size of reserves were Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Canadian Confederation, Denmark, Grand Duchy of Finland, German Empire and Sweden-Norway.\n\nOfficial international reserves, the means of official international payments, formerly consisted only of gold, and occasionally silver. But under the Bretton Woods system, the US dollar functioned as a reserve currency, so it too became part of a nation's official international reserve assets. From 1944–1968, the US dollar was convertible into gold through the Federal Reserve System, but after 1968 only central banks could convert dollars into gold from official gold reserves, and after 1973 no individual or institution could convert US dollars into gold from official gold reserves. Since 1973, no major currencies have been convertible into gold from official gold reserves. Individuals and institutions must now buy gold in private markets, just like other commodities. Even though US dollars and other currencies are no longer convertible into gold from official gold reserves, they still can function as official international reserves.\n\nCentral banks throughout the world have sometimes cooperated in buying and selling official international reserves to attempt to influence exchange rates and avert financial crisis. For example, in the Baring crisis (the \"Panic of 1890\"), the Bank of England borrowed GBP 2 million from the Banque de France. The same was true for the Louvre Accord and the Plaza Accord in the post gold-standard era.\n\nHistorically, especially before the 1997 Asian financial crisis, central banks had rather meager reserves (by today's standards) and were therefore subject to the whims of the market, of which there was accusations of hot money manipulation, however Japan was the exception. In the case of Japan, forex reserves began their ascent a decade earlier, shortly after the Plaza Accord in 1985, and were primarily used as a tool to weaken the surging yen. This effectively granted the United States a massive loan as they were almost exclusively invested in US Treasuries, which assisted the US to engage the Soviet Union in an arms race which ended with the latter's bankruptcy, and at the same time, turned Japan into the world's largest creditor and the US the largest debtor, as well as swelled Japan's domestic debt (Japan sold its own currency to fund the buildup of dollar based assets). By end of 1980, foreign assets of Japan were about 13% of GDP but by the end of 1989 had reached an unprecedented 62%. After 1997, nations in Southeast and East Asia began their massive build-up of forex reserves, as their levels were deemed too low and susceptible to the whims of the market credit bubbles and busts. This build-up has major implications for today's developed world economy, by setting aside so much cash that was piled into US and European debt, investment had been crowded out, the developed world economy had effectively slowed to a crawl, giving birth to contemporary negative interest rates.\n\nBy 2007, the world had experienced yet another financial crisis, this time the US Federal Reserve organized Central bank liquidity swaps with other institutions. Developed countries authorities adopted extra expansionary monetary and fiscal policies, which led to the appreciation of currencies of some emerging markets. The resistance to appreciation and the fear of lost competitiveness led to policies aiming to prevent inflows of capital and more accumulation of reserves. This pattern was called currency war by an exasperated Brazilian authority, and again in 2016 followed the commodities collapse, Mexico had warned China of triggering currency wars.\n\nThe IMF proposed a new metric to assess reserves adequacy in 2011. The metric was based on the careful analysis of sources of outflow during crisis. Those liquidity needs are calculated taking in consideration the correlation between various components of the balance of payments and the probability of tail events. The higher the ratio of reserves to the developed metric, the lower is the risk of a crisis and the drop in consumption during a crisis. Besides that, the Fund does econometric analysis of several factors listed above and finds those reserves ratios are generally adequate among emerging markets.\n\nReserves that are above the adequacy ratio can be used in other government funds invested in more risky assets such as sovereign wealth funds or as insurance to time of crisis, such as stabilization funds. If those were included, Norway, Singapore and Persian Gulf States would rank higher on these lists, and United Arab Emirates' estimated $627 billion Abu Dhabi Investment Authority would be second after China. Apart from high foreign exchange reserves, Singapore also has significant government and sovereign wealth funds including Temasek Holdings (last valued at US$177 billion) and GIC Private Limited (last valued at US$320 billion).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "230192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230192", "title": "Futura (typeface)", "text": "Futura (typeface)\n\nFutura is a geometric sans-serif typeface designed by Paul Renner and released in 1927. It was designed as a contribution on the New Frankfurt-project. It is based on geometric shapes, especially the circle, similar in spirit to the Bauhaus design style of the period. It was developed as a typeface by the Bauer Type Foundry, in competition with Ludwig & Mayer's seminal Erbar typeface of 1926.\n\nFutura has an appearance of efficiency and forwardness. Although Renner was not associated with the Bauhaus, he shared many of its idioms and believed that a modern typeface should express modern models, rather than be a revival of a previous design. Renner's design rejected the approach of most previous sans-serif designs (now often called grotesques), which were based on the models of signpainting, condensed lettering and nineteenth-century serif typefaces, in favour of simple geometric forms: near-perfect circles, triangles and squares. It is based on strokes of near-even weight, which are low in contrast. The lowercase has tall ascenders, which rise above the cap line, and uses nearly-circular, single-storey forms for the \"a\" and \"g\", the former previously more common in handwriting than in printed text. The uppercase characters present proportions similar to those of classical Roman capitals. The original metal type showed extensive adaptation of the design to individual sizes, and several divergent digitisations have been released by different companies.\n\nFutura was extensively marketed by Bauer and its American distribution arm by brochure as capturing the spirit of modernity, using the German slogan \"die Schrift unserer Zeit\" (\"the typeface of our time\") and in English \"the typeface of today and tomorrow\". It has remained popular since.\n\nPaul Renner began sketching his letters that would become Futura in 1924; the typeface was available for use three years later. Matrices for machine composition were made by Intertype.\n\nDespite its clean geometric appearance, some of Futura's design choices recalled classic serif typefaces. Unlike many sans-serif designs intended for display purposes, Futura has quite a low x-height, reducing its stridency and increasing its suitability for body text. The original Futura design concept included small capitals and old-style figures. These were dropped from the original metal issue of the type and first offered digitally by Neufville Digital under the Futura ND family; small caps are also available in the URW++ digitisation.\n\nThe design of Futura avoids the decorative, eliminating nonessential elements, but makes subtle departures from pure geometric designs that allow the letterforms to seem balanced. This is visible in the apparently almost perfectly round stroke of the \"o\", which is nonetheless slightly ovoid, and in how the circular strokes of letters like \"b\" gently thin as they merge with the verticals. Renner's biographer Christopher Burke has noted the important role of the Bauer Foundry's manufacturing team in adapting the design for different sizes of text, a feature not seen in digital releases. However, Renner expressed some disappointment with the slow design and release process, as it allowed Erbar (1926) to precede his design and other typefaces of similar design to appear in the same year as its release.\n\nRenner's original plan was for two versions: a more conventional version suitable for general use, and a more eccentric, geometric lower case based on the circle and triangle. This plan was scrapped, although the characters did appear on an early specimen and more recently on at least one digitisation.\n\nFutura was immediately very successful, due to its combination of classicism and modernity. It spawned a range of derivative geometric sans-serif typefaces from competing foundries, particularly in the United States.\n\nIn the UK Futura, while sometimes used, was overshadowed by Gill Sans, which became popular for similar reasons in the UK and came to define 1930s and 1940s printing. While more humanist, it also has geometric leanings which are particularly visible in the capitals.\n\nFutura remains an important typeface family and is used on a daily basis for print and digital purposes as both a headline and body font. The font is also used extensively in advertisements and logos, notably by IKEA (until 2010), Supreme, Party City, Volkswagen, Royal Dutch Shell, Crayola, FremantleMedia and HP in their print ads. Particularly until the 1950s it was used extensively by the publishing industry as a general-purpose font.\n\nA Cyrillic variant of the Futura Medium typography was made by Anatoli Muzanov for the 1980 Summer Olympics held in Moscow.\n\nFutura is also employed by the RAI (the Italian public broadcasting agency) for its logo and is used in the Italian railway system for signs.\n\nFutura has been used extensively in film and video. It is used for the title logo of the 1999 film \"American Beauty\". It was also used in various TV shows including \"Doug\", \"Lost\", \"Warehouse 13\", the American version of \"Sesame Street\", which had the capital \"I\", lowercase \"j\", and numbers \"1\" and \"4\" in simplified forms, etc. Futura is featured ubiquitously throughout the film adaptation of \"V for Vendetta\", for everything from the title logo and ending credits, to signs, newspapers, computer screens and other props. Wes Anderson is fond of the font and used it in some of his films. Futura was also Stanley Kubrick's favorite typeface.\n\nTransport is another important area where Futura has been used extensively due to its ability to be read quickly from a distance; it can be found extensively in the instrument panel graphics within automobiles — Mercedes-Benz being one of the most prolific users of the font. Futura is used extensively in aviation for instruments and control legends — most Boeing airliners use Futura within their cockpit controls, for example.\n\nNBC used a modified version of Futura for its original 1986 version of the current logo and its wordmarks. \nA bold version of the font was used for NBC Sports on-screen graphics from 1989 to 1991, and by CBS Sports from 1992 to 1996.\n\nIn 1997, the Pittsburgh Steelers (an American football team) switched to rounded numbers on the jersey to match the number font (Futura Condensed) on their helmets. In 2012 the newly formed Western Sydney Wanderers Football Club use Futura on their logo and club documentation.\n\nFutura is used on the current TV5 (Philippines) logo and is also Animax Asia's main typeface. All three of Vampire Weekend's albums use Futura on the covers, with the first two being exclusively Futura. The Boston Celtics' championship banners are also in Futura Condensed. 2008 science fiction-fantasy film \"City of Ember\" features Futura Medium in many prints through the story. The condensed version is the main font in the 2011 role-playing video game \"\", as well as being used extensively throughout the \"Watchmen\" graphic novel as well as the movie based on it. The Medium version is a font used predominantly alongside the Stratum 2 font in the 2014 racing video game \"Driveclub\". In season 2 of \"Stargate Universe\", episode \"Common Descent – Part 1\" the ancestors of the crew state that one of the two continents was named \"Futura\". There are several references to the name being a font in the episode. Futura also served as the typeface for UK television series \"Utopia\"s title cards, coloured white upon a neon yellow background (neon green in season two).\n\nMore recently, Futura has seen widespread use in many films and video games; \"Destiny\" and \"\" both use Futura on their covers, with \"Wolfenstein\" using the font throughout the in-game menus also. The 2013 film \"Gravity\" and 2014 films \"Interstellar\" and \" Gone Girl\" also use Futura on their theatrical release posters. Futura is used in the 2016 film \"\" Location Cards. The first person shooter game Battlefield 1 (released in 2016 by Electronic Arts and DICE) uses Futura as its main font both in-game and for promotional purposes.\n\nFutura Condensed is a condensed version of the original Futura font family. Bold and bold oblique fonts were released in 1930. Medium, medium oblique, extra bold, and extra bold oblique fonts were released in 1936. Light and light oblique fonts were released in 1950.\n\nFutura Demibold is a variation of the original Futura.\n\nReleased in 1932, Futura Display uses more angular strokes, resulting in rectangular letter forms.\n\nThis is also the font used on the covers of the classic Region 2 \"Doctor Who\" DVD covers.\n\nFirst released in 1929, Futura Black is an alternative design that uses stencil letter forms. Example uses of the font include the public safety departments of the city of Boston, title sequences of television programs such as \"The Love Boat\" and \"Prisoner: Cell Block H\", and as the wordmark for the National Football League's Minnesota Vikings from 1982 to 2003.\n\nSteile Futura was Paul Renner's attempt to create a typeface that would be closer to the nineteenth century sans serifs than to the geometric model. During the course of development, Renner developed several intermediate versions. Some of the early design could be found in the experimental font called Renner-Grotesk, which appeared as a trial type casting from the Stempel type foundry in 1936. Renner kursiv, a true italic companion to the regular version, was made after Stempel had been taken over by Bauer in 1938.\n\nThe work on the type family continued in the 1940s, but Renner's poor health had slowed down the development. Renner started to work again on this project in 1951 under the name of Steile Futura (\"steil\" in German means \"upright\" or \"steep\").\n\nThe font family released by Bauer consist of mager (light), halbfett (medium), fett (bold), kursiv halbfett (medium italic), and kursiv fett (bold italic). The font family was released in 1952–1953. It was sold by Bauer in German, English, Spanish, and French markets as Steile Futura, Bauer Topic, Vox, Zénith respectively.\n\nThe font family has rounder letters than Futura Display. For the first time, italic type features are incorporated in the italic fonts. The fonts incorporate handwriting features, especially in italic version. URW and Berthold have released digitisations, URW's under the name of \"Topic\", its name in original release in some non-German speaking countries. Tasse by Font Bureau is a loose adaptation.\n\nAn \"inline\" version with a line drawn through each letter.\n\nWith the demise of hot metal typesetting, Futura has been redrawn in digital formats. Because of complex licensing agreements, there is no one digital version of Futura but several, each with different features. (Some releases may be re-drawings or upgraded versions of earlier digital releases.) Releases of Futura exist from Linotype, Bitstream, URW++ (several), Elsner+Flake and many others under that name, and by many other companies under others because of rights issues. For example, Fontsite's (including Futura Black and Poster) is renamed as 'Function'.\n\nAs with all metal type revivals, converting Futura into a digital format poses interpretative challenges. Metal type fonts could be made differently for each text size, so a variety of metal and phototype versions of Futura exist on which a revival could potentially be based. In addition, revivals will need to add characters not present in the original Futura like the Euro sign and Cyrillic, and therefore do not all have the same character set.\n\nFutura revivals may also decide to make design changes, like replacing Futura’s straight 'j' with a more conventional substitute as URW's revival does. Scangraphic's revival notably includes optical sizes, with a tighter-spaced design (SH) created for headlines and a more spread-out version (SB) for body text sizes. As an assessment of the decisions involved, a wide-ranging review by Stephen Coles of digitisations of Futura and its competitor geometrics noted that Bitstream's \"abandons some of the strict geometry in favour of a more harmonious whole, but it may not be the Futura you were expecting,\" and that URW's Futura Nr. 2 was \"Possibly optimized for small text: it’s wider, ascenders shorter, counters larger, and apertures more open. Conversely, round glyphs (a, g, e,) are more true to the circle. This attribute doesn’t make this a great text face, but if you want that strict geometry, No. 2 delivers.\"\n\nThis version is based on the original sources of the Bauersche Giesserei, which had passed its typefaces to its Barcelona branch, Fundición Tipográfica Bauer SL. Released in 1999 by Neufville Digital — a joint venture of Fundición Tipográfica Bauer SL and Visualogik Technology & Design b.v — it includes small capitals and the old-style figures that had not been made in metal types. The redesign was done by Marie-Therésè Koreman.\n\nNeufville Digital issued Futura, Futura Black, Futura Condensed, and Futura Display (Futura Schlagzeile) under the Futura ND family. A limited release with some weights and features missing is bundled with macOS.\n\nOpenType features included stylistic alternates, lining figures, proportional figures, old style figures, tabular figures, fractions, standard/discretional ligatures, superscript, small caps.\n\nDesigned by Marie-Therésè Koreman, it is a version of Futura ND published by Bauer Types, S.L. with alternate character designs, which also includes more angular glyphs found in early versions of Futura.\n\nThe family includes 20 fonts in 6 weights and 2 widths, with book and demibold missing in condensed width, with complementary oblique.\n\nDesigned by Marie-Therésè Koreman, it is a version of Futura ND Alternate with alternate characters designed for small or low resolution displays.\n\nThe family includes 20 fonts in 6 weights and 2 widths, with book and demibold missing in condensed width, with complementary oblique. Small caps and old style figures are included in 18 fonts.\n\nThe ParaType fonts added Cyrillic characters. They were developed at ParaType (ParaGraph) in 1995 by Vladimir Yefimov. They came in only Light, Book, Medium, Demi weights.\n\nThis version is based on the previous ParaType design by Vladimir Yefimov (see below), expanded to include seven weights, with Book, Medium, Bold, Extra Bold weights for condensed fonts. Additional Cyrillic styles were developed in 2007 by Isabella Chaeva.\n\nFuturis is a redesign at ParaType (ParaGraph) in 1991 by Vladimir Yefimov that includes Cyrillic characters. Condensed styles were added in 1993 by Vladimir Yefimov and Alexander Tarbeev. It is available in Light, Medium, Bold, Black (without oblique) weights, while condensed fonts were made in Bold, Extra Bold, all without obliques. Also available are Cameo Extra Bold (black in reverse), Shadow Light, Shadow Extra Bold (black with shadow), Volume Light.\n\nThis version is based on the Futura Black, but designed at the Polygraphmash type design bureau in 1987 by Elvira Slysh.\n\nBukra is an Arabic variant designed by Pascal Zoghbi. It consists of Bukra Extra Bold, which was used as an Arabic display typeface for Ibn Battuta Mall in Dubai as a complement for Futura Extra Bold. The design was based on Kufi script, but using shortened descenders. The name \"Bukra\" itself is a phonetic representation of one way to express \"tomorrow\" or \"in the future\" in some Arabic cultures.\n\nUnusually, URW has two main digitisations, Futura and Futura No. 2. Futura 1 has the larger range of weights with some unusual versions like stencil and shadowed designs, while Futura No. 2 has, amongst other differences, a conventional 'j' in all the non-condensed weights apart from demi-bold, but no italics except in some bold weights. According to URW, No. 2 is based on Letraset's version. It has also released some styles as Futura 3 and 7.\n\nThis release by Gert Wiescher is notable for presenting the original alternate characters planned by Renner. They have also appeared on a digitisation of Twentieth Century, Monotype's competitor to Futura, a release which allows them to be mixed and matched with the more standard characters and small caps.\n\nThis free and open source typeface was digitized by Bastien Sozoo in 2011 around his presence at La Cambre art school in Brussels. The metal lead type in the letterpress facility of the school were given by Renner to Henry Van de Velde, the school founder, and the original 1927 forms are, as Sozoo described it, \"the first draft of Futura as we know it.\" While the capital letters are very similar to their modern counterparts (some visible differences include capital J's descent below the base line and a slightly higher crossbar on capital A), FuturaRenner uses text figures as opposed to the usual lining figures, and the letter forms of r (which has a distinctive dot-and-line styling), m and n (both of which are box-based and unrounded) are in particular contrast to modern Futura adaptations. FuturaRenner is available in light and regular weights, both of which are licensed under the SIL Open Font License.\n\nThough Erbar was the first of the new geometric sans-serif faces, the enormous success of Futura fostered the creation of many new geometric sans-serif faces by competing foundries including Kabel, Metro, Spartan by Linotype, Vogue by Intertype, Twentieth Century by Monotype and Airport by Baltotype, Semplicità by Nebiolo, and Tempo by Ludlow. Some were near identical copies as in Spartan and Twentieth Century but others were uniquely different, including Nobel and Kabel. Futura was rebranded in France by Deberny & Peignot as \"Europe\".\n\nIn Germany the designer Arno Drescher created the family Super Grotesk, which became very popular in East Germany after the war. Stephen Coles has described FontShop International's Super Grotesk digitisation as surprisingly useful, noting that its digitisation is unusually well-hinted allowing good display on Windows computers. It also features a conventional 'j'. Another German competitor, also recently digitised by FontFont, was Friedrich Bauer's Bauer Grotesk, issued by J. D. Trennert & Sohn and then Genzsch & Heyse.\n\nVolkswagen's VAG Rounded typeface borrows the same letterforms as Futura, but has rounded terminals on all strokes.\n\nTypeface designer Adrian Frutiger acknowledges Futura as one of his inspirations for his 1988 typeface Avenir. More recently Futura has been the basis of IKEA Sans and Opel Sans, fonts designed (for IKEA and Opel, respectively) by Robin Nicholas.\n\nThe Toronto Transit Commission developed the Toronto Subway font based on Futura for use in Toronto subway station signage since 1954.\n\nTasse is a revival of Steile Futura.\n\nLeague Spartan and Beteckna are descendants of Futura that are licensed as Free Software (Under the SIL OFL and GNU GPL+FE licenses, respectively).\n\nCentury Gothic borrows liberally from Futura letterforms, with the glyphs adjusted to be metrically compatible with another geometric sans-serif, ITC Avant Garde.\n\nBrandon Grotesque is inspired by Futura but with an unusually low x-height, giving it a more elegant appearance for uses such as headings and display settings. Designed by Hannes von Döhren of HVD Fonts, it is the main corporate font of Comedy Central. In 2014, von Döhren released \"Brandon Text\", a tighter version intended for body text.\n\nBraggadocio is based on Futura Black.\n\nThe 2000 typeface Gotham is similarly geometric and based on 1920s signage.\n\nPassata is a modernised version of Futura specifically designed to replace Futura as the corporate branding font of Aarhus University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5140236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5140236", "title": "Harry Gwala", "text": "Harry Gwala\n\nThemba Harry Gwala (July 1920 in New Hanover, KwaZulu-Natal – 20 June 1995) was a firebrand leader in the African National Congress (ANC) and South African Communist Party in South Africa. He was imprisoned on Robben Island from 1964 to 1972.\n\nHe was often seen as a warlord because of his uncompromising and militant stance in the conflict between the ANC and the Inkatha Freedom Party in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands, in which many hundreds died in politically motivated violence.\n\n"}
{"id": "32232760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32232760", "title": "History of Chechens in the Russian Empire", "text": "History of Chechens in the Russian Empire\n\nChechnya was first incorporated as a whole into the Russian Empire in 1859, after decades-long Caucasian War. Tsarist rule was marked by a transition into modern times including the formation (or re-formation) of a Chechen bourgeoisie, the emergence of social movements, reorientation of the Chechen economy towards oil, heavy ethnic discrimination at the expense of Chechens and others in favor of Russians and Kuban Cossacks, and a religious transition among the Chechens towards the Qadiri sect of Sufism.\n\nIn the 1860, Russia commenced with forced emigration to ethnically cleanse the region. Tsar Alexander II forced the exile of millions of Caucasians (including at least 100,000 Chechens) in 1860–1866. Although Circassians were the main (and most notorious) victims (hence the \"Circassian Genocide\"), the expulsions also gravely affected other peoples in the region. It was estimated that 80% of the Ingush left Ingushetia for the Middle East in 1865. Lowland Chechens as well were evicted in large numbers, and while many came back, the former Chechen Lowlands lacked their historical Chechen populations for a long period until Chechens were settled in the region during their return from their 1944–1957 deportation to Siberia. The Arshtins, at that time a (debatably) separate people, were completely wiped out as a distinct group: according to official documents, 1366 Arshtin families disappeared (i.e. either fled or were killed) and only 75 families remained. These 75 families, realizing the impossibility of existing as a nation of only hundreds of people, joined (or rejoined) the Chechen nation as the Erstkhoi tukkhum.\n\nAs Dunlop points out, the 100000 Chechens that were exiled in 1860–1864 may have comprised over half the nation at that time, as in the 1896 Russian census there were only 226171 Chechens total.\n\nSome Chechens tried to return, but the Tsarist government refused to let them, even when they promised to convert to the Orthodox faith if they did. Nonetheless, some managed to return regardless.\n\nIn the mid-1800s, the Qadiri sect of Sufism gained large numbers of followers among the Chechens (largely at the expense of the Nakshbandi sect). Eventually, an overwhelming majority of Chechens were Qadiri, separating them from their eastern neighbors in Dagestan who continued to follow the Nakshbandi sect. The \"zikr\", which later came to be seen as more of a \"Chechen custom\" than a \"Muslim or Qadiri custom\", is the circular dance accompanied with chanting or singing, and was largely specific to the Qadiri sect (although later it became more ethnic as non-Qadiris joined in). Finally, the Qadiri sect focused much more on individual salvation rather than the need to improve society (as the Nakshbandi did). For this reason, the Russian government initially viewed this mass transition with the hope that its allegedly less societal mindset would mean an end to Chechen resistance to their rule. However, in protest of unfavorable conditions, the Chechens rose up again in 1877-8, and the Qadiris played a major role in organizing the movement.\n\nIn 1864, trying to dissuade further resistance, Tsar Alexander II issued a decree regarding the Caucasians' \"religion, adat [Caucasian local law customs], lands and woods\" stating that they would be preserved and protected \"in perpetuity for the peoples of the North Caucasus\".\nHowever, it did not take Alexander long to break this promise. The Russian government seized large swathes (hundreds of thousands of hectares) of the best farming land and the best wooded land, and gave them to Cossacks. Considerable land was also awarded to Russian soldiers who would later assimilate with the surrounding Cossacks, identifying themselves as Cossacks. These confiscations impoverished generations of Chechens and made large numbers of them land-hungry, sparking escalation of conflicts between Chechens and Cossacks. Chechens and Ingush clans in the area previously were forced to go without their traditional lands, and they maintained claims on the land throughout the whole period, jumping to reclaim the land as Russia receded in 1917.\n\nEthnic discrimination occurred in many forms against Chechens during the Tsarist era of Chechen history, largely due to the colonialist viewpoint of the Russian government, viewing Chechens as inferior, savage and subversive, one of many peoples who Russia had a \"moral duty to civilize\".\n\nDuring the Tsarist period, Cossacks and Russians were tried for all crimes in civilian courts, usually being taken into custody by civil authorities. By contrast, Chechens and Ingush (as well as some other ethnic groups in the region) were dealt with exclusively by the military and tried in military courts, where they were typically given drastically harsher sentences, often death for crimes such as stealing food.\n\nIn addition to the initial land seizures, long term Russian policies favored the acquisition of more and more land by Russians at the expense of Chechens. In 1912, in their own homeland (and not including the lands north of the Terek that are often considered part of Chechnya and are currently within its jurisdiction), Chechens and Ingush owned well less than half as much land as Terek Cossacks did, per capita. Chechens had 5.8 desyatinas on average, Ingush had 3.0, and Terek Cossacks had 13.6.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, major oil deposits were discovered around Grozny (1893) which along with the arrival of the railroad (early 1890s), brought economic prosperity to the region (then administered as part of the Terek Oblast) for the oil-mining Russian colonists. The immigration of colonists from Russia brought about a three-way distinction between Chechens and Ingush on one hand, Cossacks on a second, and \"other-towners\" (inogorodtsy), namely Russians and Ukrainians, who came to work as laborers. A debatable fourth group, including Armenian bankers and richer Russians, and even some rich Chechens (such as Chermoev), arose later. Some Chechens got rich off oil, and the industry brought wealth to Chechnya, and (along with other factors) caused a growth of a Chechen bourgeoisie and intelligentsia.\n\nDuring the late 1860s and 1870s, a modest Chechen national awakening in literary circles occurred. The conflict with Russia and its final incorporation into the empire, however, brought about the formation of a modern, European, nationalist identity of some Chechen writers, though it ironically solidified their separation, mainly over politics, from the Ingush. The nation was held to be all-important, trumping religion, political belief, or any other such distinction.\nIn 1870, Chakh Akhiev wrote a compilation of Chechen and Ingush fairy tales (called \"Chechen fairytales\"). In 1872, Umalat Laudaev, an early Chechen nationalist, recorded the contemporary customs of the Chechens. Following in his footsteps, Chakh Akhiev did the same for their \"brothers\", the Ingush, the following year.\n\nOther notable early Chechen nationalists included Akhmetkhan, Ibraghim Sarakayev, Ismail Mutushev. Later Tsarist-era Chechen nationalists include the five Sheripov brothers, among others. Among these, Sarakayev, Mutushev, Akhmetkhan and Danilbek Sheripov were notably democratic-minded writers, while Danilbek's younger brother, Aslanbek, would adopt communism.\n"}
{"id": "24136979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24136979", "title": "Homeless Emergency Action Team", "text": "Homeless Emergency Action Team\n\nThe Homeless Emergency Action Team (HEAT) was announced on December 9, 2008 by Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson to assist Vancouver’s homeless citizens during an extremely cold winter. It created the controversial HEAT Shelters.\n\nThe team was chaired by Mayor Gregor Robertson, and was composed of elected officials and housing stakeholders.\n\nThe three publicly elected members of the team were:\n\nThe non-elected members were:\n"}
{"id": "3164536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3164536", "title": "Human rights in South Korea", "text": "Human rights in South Korea\n\nHuman rights in South Korea differ to that of its Northern counterpart, and have evolved significantly from the days of military dictatorship and reflects the state's current status as a constitutional democracy. Citizens regularly choose the President and members of the National Assembly in free and fair multiparty elections.\n\nThe National Security Act criminalizes speech in support of communism or North Korea; though it is unevenly enforced and prosecutions decline every year, there are still over 100 such cases brought annually.\n\nFor most of the 20th century South Korean citizens lived under non-democratic rule by the successive authoritarian military regimes of Syngman Rhee, Park Chung-hee, Chun Doo-hwan, and Roh Tae-woo. Civil liberties, most especially the freedoms of speech and association, were significantly curtailed and regime opponents risked torture and imprisonment.\n\nIn 1967, the KCIA fabricated a spy ring, imprisoning 34 citizens, to solidify the rule of Park Chung-hee.\n\nAfter the Gwangju Massacre in 1980, public desire for democracy and greater civil liberties was increasingly expressed; the years just before the 1988 Seoul Olympics saw an increase in pro-democracy activity that forced free elections to be held in 1992, putting long-time human rights activist Kim Young-sam into power.\n\nThe Burim Case in the 1981, saw innocent individuals, who were part of a book club, arbitrary arrested and severely tortured into making a false confession that they were reading \"communist literature.\"\n\nEvery citizen over the age of 19 has the right to vote.\n\nOfficial censorship is in place. The National Security Law makes it a crime to express sympathies with North Korea, and though it is not consistently enforced, there are over 100 people imprisoned under it annually. A play about the Yodok political prison camp in North Korea has come under significant pressure from authorities to tone down its criticism and the producers have allegedly been threatened with prosecution under the security law. Some conservative groups have complained that police keep a tight watch on their demonstrations and that some people were prevented from attending rallies. Former Unification Minister Chung Dong-young was once accused of attempting to distract reporters from a meeting of activists for human rights in North Korea. Several established human rights organizations, however, have held lectures and exhibits critical of North Korea with no interference.\n\nCensorship is more notable in the media. Songs and theater play in Japanese language or relating to Japan are generally prohibited. Despite the lifting of most regulations in 1996 and 1998 following a Constitutional Court ruling that they were illegal, scenes of extreme violence can be barred and pornography is forbidden from showing penetration of any kind, and genitals must be blurred out. Though technically legal, pornography must still meet some minimum standards of artistic integrity, which are not clearly written in the law. In 1997 a human rights film festival was blocked and the organizers arrested for refusing to submit their films for pre-screening. The government blocks access to North Korean websites and, sometimes, to major overseas web sites that host blogs. There is currently a debate over whether to revoke the ability to make anonymous comments online.\n\nFrank La Rue, The U.N. Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Opinion and Expression, announced that the government under the President Lee Myung-bak severely curtailed the freedom of expression in South Korea.\n\nSouth Korea, like Japan, is one of the most ethnically homogeneous countries in the world, and it is difficult for outsiders to be fully accepted. \n\nThe large population of workers from Southeast Asia, over half of whom are estimated to be in the country illegally, face considerable discrimination both in and out of the workplace.\n\nThis has led to the privately funded establishment of a school specifically targeted at children with an immigrated parent, with English and Korean as its main languages. When Hines Ward, who is of mixed Korean and African American heritage, earned MVP honors in Super Bowl XL, it sparked a debate in Korean society about the treatment mixed children receive.\n\nSouth Korea's still continuing traditionalist beliefs result in few people being open about their homosexuality. Homosexuality is discouraged, although homosexuality is legal in South Korea. As a result, there are few if any legal protections in place for gays and lesbians, and many of them are afraid to come out to their families, friends, and co-workers. Gay men are not allowed to serve in the military, and in 2005 five soldiers were discharged for homosexuality.\n\nJust as the DPRK considers South Koreans as fellow citizens, North Koreans are considered citizens of the Republic of Korea, and are automatically given South Korean citizenship and passports upon arrival into ROK territory. However, many refugees from North Korea have complained that they find integration into South Korean society to be difficult; they say they often face social ostracism and a government that would rather they keep quiet about the human rights situation in the North. The government has taken major steps to minimize the impact the refugees might have on its policy towards the North. An Internet radio station operated by refugees, broadcasting for those living in the North, was subject to a campaign of harassment that ended in it being unable to afford its rent after less than one month of operation. The station accused the government of either being behind the campaign or tacitly encouraging it. The government also blocked activists from sending radios to the North, and a scuffle reportedly left activist Norbert Vollertsen injured.\n\nMilitary service is mandatory for nearly all South Korean men. According to Amnesty International, there were 758 conscientious objectors (mostly Jehovah’s Witnesses) detained for refusing to perform their military service as of June 2004.\nThrough much of modern South Korean history, the military was largely cushioned from public scrutiny, resulting in decades of abuse and inhumane treatment among military personnel. Since 1993, the public has vocally deplored the human rights violations taking place within the military, such as extreme hazing. In 1997, the government enacted legislation protecting the legal and human rights of soldiers serving in the military by approving a bill that bans physical, verbal, or sexual abuse among soldiers.\nIn one incident an Army captain was arrested on charges of maltreating trainees, after allegedly forcing 192 conscripts to eat faeces. The National Human Rights Commission of Korea launched a probe into the case since it infringed on human rights.\n\nThe law prohibits arbitrary arrest and detention, and the government generally observed these prohibitions. However, the National Security Act grants the authorities broad powers to detain, arrest, and imprison persons who commit acts the government views as intended to endanger the \"security of the state.\" Critics continued to call for reform or abolishment of the law, contending that its provisions did not define prohibited activity clearly. The Ministry of Justice (MOJ) maintained that the courts had established legal precedents for strict interpretation of the law that preclude arbitrary application. The number of NSL investigations and arrests has dropped significantly in recent years.\n\nIn 2008, authorities arrested 16 persons and prosecuted another 27 persons for alleged NSL violations. Of those prosecuted, four were found guilty; the remaining 23 were on trial as of year's end. In August authorities indicted a secondary school teacher on charges of violating the NSL for distributing materials related to the May 1980 Kwangju uprising. At the end of the year he was awaiting trial without physical detention. In another case four members of a nongovernmental organization (NGO) were detained and charged in September with illegal contact with Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK or North Korea) agents and distribution of North Korean press material for the purpose of exalting DPRK leader Kim Jong-il. The NGO claimed the government used falsehoods against the four and filed a defamation claim for damages. At year's end the four were in detention awaiting trial, and the defamation claim had not been settled.\n\nIn November 2007 a university professor found guilty of violating the NSL and sentenced in 2006 to two years in prison lost his final appeal.\n\nAn Amnesty International (AI) report alleged there were arbitrary arrests of bystanders on at least three occasions during demonstrations against President Lee Myung-bak in Seoul between May and September. Those arrested were detained and released. The Korean National Police Agency (KNPA) stated that police followed the requirements of the law in responding to the demonstrations. The MOJ reported that official investigations had not confirmed any instances of arbitrary arrest as of year's end.\n\nA particular incident of the South Korean government abusing human right is the unjust arrest of Jeong Weon-seop (정원섭) for a child rape incident on September 27, 1972. The Supreme Court of South Korea pardoned Jeong on October 27, 2011 based on unreliable evidences and illicit police procedures of that time.\n\nThe law prohibits all forms of trafficking in persons; however, there were reports that persons were trafficked to, from, through, and within the country. Women from Russia, other countries of the former Soviet Union, China, Mongolia, the Philippines, and other Southeast Asian countries were trafficked to the country for sexual exploitation and domestic servitude. They were recruited personally or answered advertisements and were flown to Korea, often with entertainer or tourist visas. In some instances, once these visa recipients arrived in the country, employers illegally held victims' passports. In addition some foreign women recruited for legal and brokered marriages with Korean men ended up in situations of sexual exploitation, debt bondage, and involuntary servitude once married. Korean women were trafficked primarily for sexual exploitation to the United States, sometimes through Canada and Mexico, as well as to other countries, such as Australia and Japan. Relatively small numbers of migrants seeking opportunities in the country were believed to have become victims of trafficking as well, although the MOL Employment Permit System reduced the number of workers trafficked into the country. There were reports that human traffickers exploited ROK passports for the purpose of human trafficking. There was no credible evidence that officials were involved in trafficking.\n\nThe law prohibits trafficking for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation, including debt bondage, and prescribes up to 10 years' imprisonment. Trafficking for forced labor is criminalized and carries penalties of up to five years' imprisonment. February revisions to the Passport Act allow for restricted issuance or confiscation of passports of persons engaging in illegal activity overseas, including sex trafficking. However, some NGOs believed the laws against sex trafficking were not being enforced to their fullest potential. During the year authorities conducted 220 trafficking investigations and prosecuted in 31 cases, all for sex trafficking. There were no reported prosecutions or convictions of labor trafficking offenses.\n\nThe Marriage Brokerage Management Act, which entered into effect in June, regulates both domestic and international marriage brokers and prescribes penalties for dishonest brokers, including sentences of up to three years' imprisonment or fines. There also are laws to protect \"foreign brides\" in the country and punish fraudulent marriage brokers, but NGOs claimed the laws needed to be strengthened.\n\nThe KNPA and the MOJ were principally responsible for enforcing antitrafficking laws. The government worked with the international community on investigations related to trafficking.\n\nThe government maintained a network of shelters and programs to assist victims of abuse, including trafficking victims. Victims were also eligible for medical, legal, vocational, and social support services. NGOs with funding from the government provided many of these services. NGOs reported that there was only one counseling center and two shelters in the country dedicated to foreign victims of sex trafficking. The MOJ continued to educate male clients of prostitution to correct distorted views of prostitution. During the year 17,956 individuals participated in the program.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19774052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19774052", "title": "Indigenism", "text": "Indigenism\n\nIndigenism can refer to several different ideologies associated with indigenous peoples, is used differently by a various scholars and activists, and can be used purely descriptively or carry political connotations.\n\nThus, for the New World, in the Americas as well as in Australia, the question is rather straightforward, while it is less easy to answer in the case of South Africa. The question of who is indigenous may be less than straightforward, depending on the region under consideration.\n\nAnthropologist Ronald Niezen uses the term to describe \"the international movement that aspires to promote and protect the rights of the world's 'first peoples'.\"\n\nNew Zealander scholar Jeffrey Sissons has criticized what he calls \"eco-indigenism\" on the part of international forums such as the Working Group on Indigenous Peoples, which he claims enforces a link between indigenous peoples and traditional economies, and also confuses the issues faced by New World indigenous, who are mostly urban dwellers and live in states dominated by people descendant from their colonizers, and by ethnic minorities in Asia and Africa who are more likely to live \"close to the land\" and live in states where the colonizers have long since left (though they may still face persecution from the post-colonial successor state).\n\nAs used by Cherokee-American scholar Ward Churchill (b. 1947; author of \"From a Native Son\") and Mexican scholar Guillermo Bonfil Batalla (1935-1991), the term refers to the common civilization of which, they argue, all New World indigenous peoples are a part, and to their common \"spirit of resistance\" to settler colonialism.\n\nIn Latin America the term \"Indigenismo\" is often used \"to describe the ways that colonial nation-states have\nformulated their vision of Indigenous social inclusion.\"\n\nOne scholar, Alcida Rita Ramos, uses the term not only to refer to official policy, but to all social and political interactions between the state or mainstream society and indigenous peoples, whether initiated by the indigenous or by other parties.\n\nEva Marie Garroutte uses \"Radical Indigenism\" to mean an attitude towards scholarship on indigenous peoples that does not treat their culture as a curiosity, or of interest solely in order to study the individuals who practise the culture; instead she argues that indigenous people possess entire philosophies of knowledge capable of generating new knowledge through different models of inquiry from those used in Western philosophy. She presents it as a logical next step to post-colonial theories which seek to question Western \"ways of knowing\" but have not yet proposed alternatives.\n\nIndigenism, native nationalism, or indigenous nationalism is a kind of ethnic nationalism emphasizing the group's indigeneity to their homeland. This may be embraced by post-colonial anarchism as well as in neo-völkisch or national mysticist nationalism building on historical or pseudohistorical claims of ethnic continuity.\n\nWhile New World movements usually go by the name \"indigenism\" (notably in South America and in Mexico, \"indigenismo\" is a political force), the term autochthonism is encountered for Eastern European and Central Asian nationalisms.\n\n\"Autochthonism\" is an issue especially in those parts of Europe formerly under Ottoman control, i.e. the Balkans and Romania (see rise of nationalism under the Ottoman Empire). Originating in the 19th century, autochthonist nationalism affected the area throughout the 20th century.\nWriting in 1937, Nichifor Crainic celebrated \"Gândirea\"'s role in making nationalism and Orthodoxy priorities in Romania's intellectual and political life:\n\nIndigenism involves the suppression of certain aspects of history and the emphasis of others (to which there may be no direct continuity), as well as the selection of one of multiple sources of ancestry for a \"people\". It can be personal, as in W. E. B. Du Bois's black nationalism, despite his Dutch ancestry. It is also relative, since while nativists in the United States argue that Native Americans and Mestizo Hispanic and Latino American people are more indigenous to the United States land than European Americans, some counterclaims posit European Americans as more indigenous than the Indigenous peoples of the Americas.\n\nThe portrayal of the Christian wars against Al-Andalus as a \"Reconquista\", or \"reconquest\" is an indigenist nationalist trope that evokes Iberia's pre-Muslim past. The Hutu Power ideology posited that the Hutu were the first, and therefore the legitimate, inhabitants of Rwanda, justifying the extermination of the Tutsi. The Arab–Israeli conflict involves competing claims to indigenity, with modern disputants to territory claiming a direct line of descent to its ancient inhabitant peoples - some of them mythical - such as the Philistines and the Canaanites.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20089569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20089569", "title": "Instant-runoff voting", "text": "Instant-runoff voting\n\nInstant-runoff voting (IRV) is a type of preferential voting method used in single-seat elections with more than two candidates. Instead of voting only for a single candidate, voters in IRV elections can rank the candidates in order of preference. Ballots are initially counted for each elector's top choice, losing candidates are eliminated, and ballots for losing candidates are redistributed until one candidate is the top remaining choice of a majority of the voters. When the field is reduced to two, it has become an \"instant runoff\" that allows a comparison of the top two candidates head-to-head.\n\nCompared to plurality voting, IRV can reduce the impact of vote-splitting when multiple candidates earn support from like-minded voters, as long as the spoiler candidates are weak. \n\nInstant-runoff voting is used in national elections in several countries. For example, it is used to elect members of the Australian House of Representatives and most Australian state legislatures; the President of India and members of legislative councils in India; the President of Ireland; adopted and being used to elect members of Congress in Maine in the United States; and the parliament in Papua New Guinea. The method is also used in local elections around the world, as well as by some political parties (to elect internal leaders) and private associations, for various voting purposes such as that for choosing the Academy Award for Best Picture. IRV is described in \"Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised\" under the name preferential voting; it is also sometimes referred to as the alternative vote or ranked-choice voting (though there are many other preferential voting systems that use ranked-choice ballots).\n\nInstant-runoff voting derives its name from the way the ballot count simulates a series of runoffs, similar to a two-round system, except that voter preferences do not change between rounds. It is also known as the alternative vote, transferable vote, ranked-choice voting (RCV), single-seat ranked-choice voting, or preferential voting. Britonsgenerally call IRV the \"Alternative Vote\" (AV) while in Canada it is called \"Ranked Choice\" or \"Ranked Choice Voting\". Australians, who use IRV for most single winner elections, call IRV \"preferential voting\", as does \"Robert's Rules of Order\". IRV occasionally is referred to as Ware's method after its inventor, American William Robert Ware. American organizations that promote IRV (such as FairVote) identified IRV as \"instant-runoff voting\" as recently as 2009, but shifted to referring to IRV as \"ranked-choice voting\" as jurisdictions using it such as San Francisco, California; Maine; and Minneapolis, Minnesota codified the term in their laws.\n\nWhen the single transferable vote (STV) method is applied to a single-winner election, it becomes IRV. Some Irish observers mistakenly call IRV \"proportional representation\" based on the fact that the same ballot form is used to elect its president by IRV and parliamentary seats by STV, but IRV is a winner-take-all election method.\n\nNorth Carolina law used \"instant runoff\" to describe the contingent vote or \"batch elimination\" form of IRV in one-seat elections prior to IRV being eliminated in 2013. A single second round of counting produces the top two candidates for a runoff election. Election officials in Hendersonville, North Carolina used \"instant runoff\" to describe a multi-seat election method that simulates in a single round of voting their previous method of multi-seat runoffs. State law in South Carolina and Arkansas use \"instant runoff\" to describe the practice of having certain categories of absentee voters cast ranked-choice ballots before the first round of a runoff and counting those ballots in any subsequent runoff elections.\n\nThere are a number of variations in IRV. IRV methods in use in different countries vary, both as to ballot design and as to whether or not voters are obliged to provide a full list of preferences.\n\nIn an optional preferential voting system, voters can give a preference to as many candidates as they wish. They may make only a single choice, known as \"bullet voting\", and some jurisdictions accept an \"X\" as valid for the first preference. This may result in ballot exhaustion, where all the voters' preferences are eliminated before a candidate is elected with a majority. Optional preferential voting is used for elections for the President of Ireland and the Western Australian Legislative Assembly.\n\nIn a full preferential voting method, voters are required to mark a preference for every candidate standing. Ballots that do not contain a complete ordering of all candidates are in some jurisdictions considered spoilt or invalid, even if there are only two candidates standing. This can become burdensome in elections with many candidates and can lead to \"donkey voting\", in which some voters simply choose candidates at random or in top-to-bottom order, or a voter may order his or her preferred candidates and then fill in the remainder on a donkey basis. Full preferential voting is used for elections to the Australian federal parliament and for most State parliaments.\n\nOther methods only allow marking preferences for a maximum of the voter's top three favorites, a form of partial preferential voting.\n\nInstant-runoff voting was devised in 1871 by American architect William Robert Ware, although it is, in effect, a special case of the single transferable vote method, which emerged independently in the 1850s. Unlike the single transferable vote in multi-seat elections, however, the only ballot transfers are from backers of candidates who have been eliminated.\n\nThe first known use of an IRV-like method in a governmental election was in the 1893 general election in the Colony of Queensland (in present-day Australia). The variant used for this election was a \"contingent vote\". IRV in its true form was first used in Western Australia, in the 1908 state election. The Hare-Clark system was introduced for the Tasmanian House of Assembly at the 1909 state election.\n\nIRV was introduced for federal (nationwide) elections in Australia after the Swan by-election in October 1918, in response to the rise of the conservative Country Party, representing small farmers. The Country Party split the non-Labor vote in conservative country areas, allowing Labor candidates to win without a majority of the vote. The conservative government of Billy Hughes introduced IRV (in Australia called \"preferential voting\") as a means of allowing competition between the Coalition parties without putting seats at risk. It was first used at the Corangamite by-election on 14 December 1918, and at a national level at the 1919 election. IRV continued to benefit the Coalition until the 1990 election, when for the first time Labor obtained a net benefit from IRV.\n\nIn instant-runoff voting, as with other ranked election methods, each voter ranks the list of candidates in order of preference. Under a common ballot layout, the voter marks a '1' beside the most preferred candidate, a '2' beside the second-most preferred, and so forth, in ascending order. This is shown in the example Australian ballot above.\n\nThe mechanics of the process are the same regardless of how many candidates the voter ranks, and how many are left unranked. In some implementations, the voter ranks as many or as few choices as they wish, while in other implementations the voter is \"required\" to rank either all candidates, or a prescribed number of them.\n\nIn the initial count, the first preference of each voter is counted and used to order the candidates. Each first preference counts as one vote for the appropriate candidate. Once all the first preferences are counted, if one candidate holds a majority, that candidate wins. Otherwise the candidate who holds the fewest first preferences is eliminated. If there is an exact tie for last place in numbers of votes, various tie-breaking rules determine which candidate to eliminate. Some jurisdictions eliminate all low-ranking candidates simultaneously whose combined number of votes is fewer than the number of votes received by the lowest remaining candidates.\n\nBallots assigned to eliminated candidates are added to the totals of one of the remaining candidates based on the next preference ranked on each ballot. The process repeats until one candidate achieves a majority of votes cast for continuing candidates. Ballots that 'exhaust' all their preferences (all its ranked candidates are eliminated) are set aside.\n\nIn Australian elections the allocation of preferences is performed efficiently in an unofficial tally at the polling booth by having the returning officer pre-declare the two most likely winners. (In the event that the returning officer is wrong the votes need to be recounted.)\n\nThe common way to list candidates on a ballot paper is alphabetically or by random lot. In some cases, candidates may also be grouped by political party. Alternatively, Robson Rotation involves randomly changing candidate order for each print run.\n\nWhere preferential voting is used for the election of an assembly or council, parties and candidates often advise their supporters on their lower preferences, especially in Australia where a voter must rank all candidates to cast a valid ballot. This can lead to \"preference deals\", a form of pre-election bargaining, in which smaller parties agree to direct their voters in return for support from the winning party on issues critical to the small party. However, this relies on the assumption that supporters of a minor party will mark preferences for another party based on the advice that they have been given.\n\nMost IRV elections historically have been tallied by hand, including in elections to Australia's House of Representatives and most state governments. In the modern era, voting equipment can be used to administer the count either partially or fully.\n\nIn Australia, the returning officer now usually declares the two candidates that are most likely to win each seat. The votes are always counted by hand at the polling booth monitored by scrutineers from each candidate. The first part of the count is to record the first choice for all candidates. Votes for candidates other than the two likely winners are then allocated to them in a second pass. The whole process of counting the votes by hand and allocating preferences is typically completed within two hours on election night at a cost of $7.68 per elector in 2010 to run the entire election.\n\nIreland in its presidential elections has several dozen counting centers around the nation. Each center reports its totals and receives instructions from the central office about which candidate or candidates to eliminate in the next round of counting based on which candidate is in last place. The count typically is completed the day after the election, as in 1997.\n\nIn the United States, some Californian cities, e.g. Oakland and San Francisco, administer IRV elections on voting machines, with optical scanning machines recording preferences and software tallying the IRV algorithm as soon as ballots are tallied. Cary, North Carolina's pilot program in 2007 tallied first choices on optical scan equipment at the polls and then used a central hand-count for the IRV tally. Portland, Maine in 2011 used its usual voting machines to tally first choice at the polls, then a central scan with different equipment if an IRV tally was necessary.\n\nSome examples of IRV elections are given below. The first two (fictional elections) demonstrate the principle of IRV. The others offer examples of the results of real elections.\n\nA simple example is provided in the accompanying table. Three candidates are running for election, Bob, Bill and Sue. There are five voters, \"a\" through \"e\". The voters each have one vote. They rank the candidates first, second and third in the order they prefer them. To win, a candidate must have a majority of vote; that is, three or more.\n\nIn Round 1, the first-choice rankings are tallied, with the results that Bob and Sue both have two votes and Bill has one. No candidate has a majority, so a second \"instant runoff\" round is required. Since Bill is in bottom place, he is eliminated. The ballot from any voter who ranked Bill first (in this example solely voter \"C\" ) gets reallocated to the 2nd choice candidate for that voter. This results in the Round 2 votes as seen below. This gives Sue 3 votes, which is a majority.\nMost instant-runoff voting elections are won by the candidate who leads in first-choice rankings. In such cases, IRV chooses the same winner as first-past-the-post voting. Some IRV elections are won by a candidate who finishes second after the first-round count. In this case, IRV chooses the same winner as a two-round system if all voters were to vote again and maintain their same preferences. A candidate may also win who is in third place or lower after the first count, but gains majority support in the final round. In such cases, IRV would choose the same winner as a multi-round method that eliminated the last-place candidate before each new vote, assuming all voters kept voting and maintained their same preferences. Here is an example of this last case.\nIt takes three rounds to determine a winner in this election.Round 1 - In the first round no city gets a majority:\n\nIf one of the cities had achieved a majority vote (more than half), the election would end there. If this were a first-past-the-post election, Memphis would win because it received the most votes. But IRV does not allow a candidate to win on the first round without having an absolute majority of the vote. While 42% of the electorate voted \"for\" Memphis, 58% of the electorate voted \"against\" Memphis in this first round.\n\nRound 2 - In the second round of tabulation, we remove the city with the least first-place support from consideration. Chattanooga received the lowest number of votes in the first round, so it is eliminated. The ballots that listed Chattanooga as first choice are added to the totals of the second-choice selection on each ballot. Everything else stays the same.\n\nChattanooga's 15% of the total votes are added to the second choices selected by the voters for whom that city was first-choice (in this example Knoxville):\nIn the first round, Memphis was first, Nashville was second and Knoxville was third. With Chattanooga eliminated and its votes redistributed, the second round finds Memphis still in first place, followed by Knoxville in second and Nashville has moved down to third place. This example however makes the unlikely assumption that all voters who selected a certain city first would rank the subsequent cities in the same order. In reality, some first-choice supporters of Chattanooga may have had Nashville as their second choice rather than Knoxville, resulting in Knoxville's elimination in Round 3. \n\nRound 3 - No city yet has secured a majority of votes, so we move to the third round with the elimination of Nashville, and it becomes a contest between Memphis and Knoxville.\n\nAs in the second round with Chattanooga, all of the ballots currently counting for Nashville are added to the totals of Memphis or Knoxville based on which city is ranked next on that ballot. In this example the second-choice of the Nashville voters is Chattanooga, which is already eliminated. Therefore, the votes are added to their third-choice: Knoxville.\n\nThe third round of tabulation yields the following result:\nResult: Knoxville, which was running third in the first tabulation, has moved up from behind to take first place in the third and final round. The winner of the election is Knoxville. However, if 6% of voters in Memphis were to put Nashville first, the winner would be Nashville, a preferable outcome for voters in Memphis. This is an example of potential tactical voting, though one that would be difficult for voters to carry out in practice. Also, if 17% of voters in Memphis were to stay away from voting, the winner would be Nashville. This is an example of IRV failing the participation criterion.\n\nFor comparison, note that traditional first-past-the-post voting would elect Memphis, even though most citizens consider it the worst choice, because 42% is larger than any other single city. As Nashville is a Condorcet winner, would elect Nashville. A two-round method would have a runoff between Memphis and Nashville where Nashville would win, too.\n\nUnlike Burlington's first IRV mayoral election in 2006, the IRV winner in 2009 (Bob Kiss) was neither the same as the plurality winner (Kurt Wright) nor the Condorcet winner (Andy Montroll). Because of the post-election controversy, IRV was repealed in 2010 by a vote of 52% to 48%.\n\nThe organization FairVote, which advocates for IRV, claimed the election as a success, citing three reasons (1) it prevented the election of the presumed winner under a plurality system by avoiding the effect of vote-splitting between the other candidates, (2) 99.99% of the ballots were valid suggesting that voters handled the system without difficulty, and (3) \"contributed to producing a campaign among four serious candidates that was widely praised for its substantive nature.\" However, the election was considered a failure by advocates of the Condorcet winner, who point out that \"in a head to head election, Andy Montroll should have beaten Bob Kiss by a 7.8% margin\".\n\nThe result of the 1990 Irish presidential election provides an example of how instant-runoff voting can produce a different result from first-past-the-post voting. The three candidates were Brian Lenihan of the traditionally dominant Fianna Fáil party, Austin Currie of Fine Gael, and Mary Robinson, nominated by the Labour Party and the Workers' Party. After the first round, Lenihan had the largest share of the first-choice rankings (and hence would have won a first-past-the-post vote), but no candidate attained the necessary majority. Currie was eliminated and his votes reassigned to the next choice ranked on each ballot; in this process, Robinson received 82% of Currie's votes, thereby overtaking Lenihan.\nA good real-life example of IRV producing a result which differs from what would be expected of first-past-the-post or the two-round voting system is the result for the seat of Prahran at the 2014 Victorian state election. In this instance, the candidate who finished third (Greens candidate Sam Hibbins) in the primary vote would go on to win the seat on the back of favourable preferences from the other two minor parties and independents, narrowly beating the second-ranked candidate (Labor candidate Neil Pharaoh) by 31 votes and the first-ranked candidate (Liberal candidate Clem Newton-Brown) by 277 votes. It was not until the final round of counting that one of the two remaining candidates (Hibbins) had more than 50% of the total vote.\n\nScholars rate voting methods using mathematically-derived voting method criteria, which describe desirable features of a method. No ranked-preference method can meet all of the criteria, because some of them are mutually exclusive, as shown by statements such as Arrow's impossibility theorem and the Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem.\n\nMany of the mathematical criteria by which voting methods are compared were formulated for voters with ordinal preferences. If voters vote according to the same ordinal preferences in both rounds, criteria can be applied to two-round systems of runoffs, and in that case, each of the criteria failed by IRV is also failed by the two-round system as they relate to automatic elimination of trailing candidates. Partial results exist for other models of voter behavior in the two-round method: see the two-round system article's criterion compliance section for more information.\n\nCondorcet loser criterion\n\nIndependence of clones criterion\n\nLater-no-harm criterion\n\nMajority criterion\n\nMutual majority criterion\n\nResolvability criterion\n\nCondorcet winner criterion\n\nThe Condorcet winner criterion states that \"if a candidate would win a head-to-head competition against every other candidate, then that candidate must win the overall election\". It is incompatible with the later-no-harm criterion, so IRV does not meet this criterion.\n\nIRV is more likely to elect the Condorcet winner than plurality voting and traditional runoff elections. The California cities of Oakland, San Francisco and San Leandro in 2010 provide an example; there were a total of four elections in which the plurality-voting leader in first-choice rankings was defeated, and in each case the IRV winner was the Condorcet winner, including a San Francisco election in which the IRV winner was in third place in first choice rankings.\n\nConsistency criterion\n\nThe consistency criterion states that if dividing the electorate into two groups and running the same election separately with each group returns the same result for both groups, then the election over the whole electorate should return this result. IRV, like all preferential voting methods which are not positional, does not meet this criterion.\n\nIndependence of irrelevant alternatives criterion\n\nThe independence of irrelevant alternatives criterion states that \"the election outcome remains the same even if a candidate who cannot win decides to run.\" In the general case, instant-runoff voting can be susceptible to strategic nomination: whether or not a candidate decides to run at all can affect the result even if the new candidate cannot themselves win. This is much less likely to happen than under plurality.\n\nMonotonicity criterion\nThe monotonicity criterion states that \"a voter can't harm a candidate's chances of winning by voting that candidate higher, or help a candidate by voting that candidate lower, while keeping the relative order of all the other candidates equal.\" Allard claims failure is unlikely, at a less than 0.03% chance per election. Some critics argue in turn that Allard's calculations are wrong and the probability of monotonicity failure is much greater, at 14.5% under the impartial culture election model in the three-candidate case, or 7–10% in the case of a left-right spectrum. Lepelley \"et al.\" find a 2%–5% probability of monotonicity failure under the same election model as Allard.\n\nParticipation criterion\n\nThe participation criterion states that \"the best way to help a candidate win must not be to abstain\". IRV does not meet this criterion: in some cases, the voter's preferred candidate can be best helped if the voter does not vote at all. Depankar Ray finds a 50% probability that, when IRV elects a different candidate than Plurality, some voters would have been better off not showing up.\n\nReversal symmetry criterion\n\nThe reversal symmetry criterion states that \"if candidate A is the unique winner, and each voter's individual preferences are inverted, then A must not be elected\". IRV does not meet this criterion: it is possible to construct an election where reversing the order of every ballot paper does not alter the final winner.\n\nInstant-runoff voting is one of many ranked ballot methods. For example, the elimination of the candidate with the most last-place rankings, rather than the one with the fewest first-place rankings, is called Coombs' method, and universal assignment of numerical values to each rank is used in the Borda count method. A chart in the article on the Schulze method compares various ranked ballot methods.\n\nAt the Australian federal election in September 2013, 135 out of the 150 House of Representatives seats (or 90 percent) were won by the candidate who led on first preferences. The other 15 seats (10 percent) were won by the candidate who placed second on first preferences.\n\nThe Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem demonstrates that no (deterministic, non-dictatorial) voting method using only the preference rankings of the voters can be entirely immune from tactical voting. This implies that IRV is susceptible to tactical voting in some circumstances.\n\nResearch concludes that IRV is one of the less-manipulable voting methods, with theorist Nicolaus Tideman noting that, \"alternative vote is quite resistant to strategy\" and Australian political analyst Antony Green dismissing suggestions of tactical voting. James Green-Armytage tested four ranked-choice methods, and found the alternative vote to be the second-most-resistant to tactical voting, though it was beaten by a class of AV-Condorcet hybrids, and did not resist strategic withdrawal by candidates well. Some simulations of several classes of voting methods in non-scholarly publications found IRV performed as badly as plurality when voters are strategic and fully informed about other voter's full preferences, and was out-performed by Range, Approval, and Borda.\n\nBy not meeting the monotonicity, Condorcet winner, and participation criteria, IRV permits forms of tactical voting when voters have sufficient information about other voters' preferences, such as from accurate pre-election polling. FairVote mentions that monotonicity failure can lead to situations where \"Having more voters rank [a] candidate first, can cause [them] to switch from being a winner to being a loser.\" That assessment is accurate, although it only happens in particular situations. The change in lower candidates is important: whether votes are shifted to the leading candidate, shifted to a fringe candidate, or discarded altogether is of no importance.\n\nTactical voting in IRV seeks to alter the order of eliminations in early rounds, to ensure that the original winner is challenged by a stronger opponent in the final round. For example, in a three-party election where voters for both the left and right prefer the centrist candidate to stop the \"enemy\" candidate winning, those voters who care more about defeating the \"enemy\" than electing their own candidate may cast a tactical first preference vote for the centrist candidate.\n\nThe 2009 mayoral election in Burlington, Vermont provides an example in which strategy theoretically could have worked but would have been unlikely in practice. In that election, most supporters of the candidate who came in second (a Republican who led in first choices) preferred the Condorcet winner, a Democrat, to the IRV winner, the Progressive Party nominee. If 371 (12.6%) out of the 2951 backers of the Republican candidate (those who also preferred the Democrat over the Progressive candidate for mayor) had insincerely raised the Democrat from their second choice to their first (not changing their rankings relative to their least favorite candidate, the Progressive), the Democrat would then have advanced to the final round (instead of their favorite), defeated any opponent, and proceeded to win the IRV election. This is an example of potential voter regret in that these voters who sincerely ranked their favorite candidate as first, find out after the fact that they caused the election of their least favorite candidate, which can lead to the voting tactic of compromising. Yet because the Republican led in first choices and only narrowly lost the final instant runoff, his backers would have been highly unlikely to pursue such a strategy.\n\nThe spoiler effect is when a difference is made to the anticipated outcome of an election due to the presence on the ballot paper of a candidate who (predictably) will lose. Most often this is when two or more politically similar candidates divide the vote for the more popular end of the political spectrum. That is, each receives fewer votes than a single opponent on the unpopular end of the spectrum who is disliked by the majority of voters but who wins from the advantage that, on that unpopular side, he or she is unopposed.\n\nProponents of IRV claim that IRV eliminates the spoiler effect, since IRV makes it safe to vote honestly for marginal parties: Under a plurality method, voters who sympathize most strongly with a marginal candidate are strongly encouraged to instead vote for a more popular candidate who shares some of the same principles, since that candidate has a much greater chance of being elected and a vote for the marginal candidate will not result the marginal candidate's election. An IRV method reduces this problem, since the voter can rank the marginal candidate first and the mainstream candidate second; in the likely event that the fringe candidate is eliminated, the vote is not wasted but is transferred to the second preference.\n\nHowever, when the third party candidate is more competitive, they can still act as a spoiler under IRV, by taking away first-choice votes from the more mainstream candidate until that candidate is eliminated, and then that candidate's second-choice votes helping a more-disliked candidate to win. In these scenarios, it would have been better for the third party voters if their candidate had not run at all (spoiler effect), or if they had voted dishonestly, ranking their favorite second rather than first (favorite betrayal).\n\nFor example, in the 2009 Burlington, Vermont mayoral election, if the Republican candidate who lost in the final instant runoff had not run, the Democratic candidate would have defeated the winning Progressive candidate. In that sense, the Republican candidate was a spoiler even though leading in first choice support.\n\nTideman's Alternative Method avoids this by first eliminating all candidates not in the Smith set or Schwartz set, then performing exactly one round of IRV, repeating this process until a Condorcet candidate appears. Other Condorcet methods also elect from these sets using different rules; Tideman's is the most functionally-similar to IRV.\n\nIn practice, IRV does not seem to discourage candidacies. In Australia's House of Representatives elections in 2007, for example, the average number of candidates in a district was seven, and at least four candidates ran in every district; notwithstanding the fact that Australia only has two major political parties. Every seat was won with a majority of the vote, including several where results would have been different under plurality voting. A study of ballot image data found that all of the 138 RCV elections held in four Bay Area cities in California elected the Condorcet winner, including many with large fields of candidates and 46 where multiple rounds of counting were required to determine a winner.\n\nIRV is not a proportional voting method. Like all winner-take-all voting methods, IRV tends to exaggerate the number of seats won by the largest parties; small parties without majority support in any given constituency are unlikely to earn seats in a legislature, although their supporters will be more likely to be part of the final choice between the two strongest candidates. A simulation of IRV in the 2010 UK general election by the Electoral Reform Society concluded that the election would have altered the balance of seats among the three main parties, but the number of seats won by minor parties would have remained unchanged.\n\nAustralia, a nation with a long record of using IRV for the election of legislative bodies, has had representation in its parliament broadly similar to that expected by plurality methods. Medium-sized parties, such as the National Party of Australia, can co-exist with coalition partners such as the Liberal Party of Australia, and can compete against it without fear of losing seats to other parties due to vote splitting. IRV is more likely to result in legislatures where no single party has an absolute majority of seats (a hung parliament), but does not generally produce as fragmented a legislature as a fully proportional method, such as is used for the House of Representatives of the Netherlands or the New Zealand House of Representatives, where coalitions of numerous small parties are needed for a majority.\n\nThe costs of printing and counting ballot papers for an IRV election are no different from those of any other method using the same technology. However, the more-complicated counting system may encourage officials to introduce more advanced technology, such as software counters or electronic voting machines. Pierce County, Washington election officials outlined one-time costs of $857,000 to implement IRV for its elections in 2008, covering software and equipment, voter education and testing.\n\nBecause it does not require two separate votes, IRV is assumed to cost less than two-round primary/general or general/runoff election methods. However, in 2009, the auditor of Washington counties reported that the ongoing costs of the system were not necessarily balanced by the costs of eliminating runoffs for most county offices, because those elections may be needed for other offices not elected by IRV. Other jurisdictions have reported immediate cost savings.\n\nAustralian elections are counted by hand. The 2010 federal election cost a total of $7.68 per elector of which only a small proportion is the actual counting of votes. Counting is now normally performed in a single pass at the polling center as described above.\n\nThe perceived costs or cost savings of adopting an IRV method are commonly used by both supporters and critics. In the 2011 referendum on the Alternative Vote in the UK, the NOtoAV campaign was launched with a claim that adopting the method would cost £250 million; commentators argued that this headline figure had been inflated by including £82 million for the cost of the referendum itself, and a further £130 million on the assumption that the UK would need to introduce electronic voting systems, when ministers had confirmed that there was no intention of implementing such technology, whatever the outcome of the election. Automated vote counting is seen by some to have a greater potential for election fraud; IRV supporters counter these claims with recommended audit procedures, or note that automated counting is not required for the method at all.\n\nJohn Russo, Oakland City Attorney, argued in the \"Oakland Tribune\" on 24 July 2006 that \"Instant runoff voting is an antidote to the disease of negative campaigning. IRV led to San Francisco candidates campaigning more cooperatively. Under the method, their candidates were less likely to engage in negative campaigning because such tactics would risk alienating the voters who support 'attacked' candidates\", reducing the chance that they would support the attacker as a second or third choice.\n\nIn 2013–2014, the Rutgers-Eagleton Poll surveyed more than 4,800 likely voters in 21 cities after their local city elections—half in cities with IRV elections and 14 in control cities selected by project leaders Caroline Tolbert of the University of Iowa and Todd Donovan of Western Washington University. Among findings, respondents in IRV cities reported candidates spent less time criticizing opponents than in cities that did not use IRV. In the 2013 survey, for example, 5% of respondents said that candidates criticized each other \"a great deal of the time\" as opposed to 25% in non-IRV cities. An accompanying survey of candidates reported similar findings.\n\nInternationally, Benjamin Reilly suggests instant-runoff voting eases ethnic conflict in divided societies. This feature was a leading argument for why Papua New Guinea adopted instant-runoff voting. However, Lord Alexander's objections to the conclusions of the British Independent Commission on the Voting System's report cites the example of Australia saying \"their politicians tend to be, if anything, more blunt and outspoken than our own\".\n\nIn Ann Arbor, Michigan arguments over IRV in letters to newspapers included the belief that IRV \"gives minority candidate voters two votes\", because some voters' ballots may count for their first choice in the first round and a lesser choice in a later round. The argument that IRV represents plural voting is sometimes used in arguments over the \"fairness\" of the method, and has led to several legal challenges in the United States. The argument was addressed and rejected by a Michigan court in 1975; in \"Stephenson v. the Ann Arbor Board of City Canvassers\", the court held \"majority preferential voting\" (as IRV was then known) to be in compliance with the Michigan and United States constitutions, writing:\n\nBecause the ballot marking is more complex, there can be an increase in spoiled ballots. In Australia, voters are required to write a number beside every candidate, and the rate of spoiled ballots can be five times higher than plurality voting elections. Since Australia has compulsory voting, however, it is difficult to tell how many ballots are deliberately spoiled. Where complete rankings are not required, a ballot may become exhausted if none of the ranked choices on that ballot advance to the next round.\n\nMost jurisdictions with IRV do not require complete rankings and may use columns to indicate preference instead of numbers. In American elections with IRV, more than 99% of voters typically cast a valid ballot.\n\nA 2015 study of four local U.S. elections that used IRV found that ballot exhaustion occurred often enough in each of them that the winner of each election did not receive a majority of votes cast in the first round. The rate of ballot exhaustion in each election ranged from a low of 9.6% to a high of 27.1%. As one point of comparison, the number of votes cast in the 190 regularly scheduled primary runoff elections for the U.S House and U.S. Senate from 1994 to 2016 decreased from the initial primary on average by 39%,\naccording to a 2016 study by FairVote.\n\nThe sequential elimination method used by IRV is described in \"Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised\" as an example of \"preferential voting\", a term covering \"any of a number of voting methods by which, on a single ballot when there are more than two possible choices, the second or less-preferred choices of voters can be taken into account if no candidate or proposition attains a majority. While it is more complicated than other methods of voting in common use, and is not a substitute for the normal procedure of repeated balloting until a majority is obtained, preferential voting is especially useful and fair in an election by mail if it is impractical to take more than one ballot. In such cases, it makes possible a more representative result than under a rule that a plurality shall elect ... Preferential voting has many variations. One method is described ... by way of illustration.\" And then the instant runoff voting method is detailed.\n\n\"Robert's Rules\" continues: \"The system of preferential voting just described should not be used in cases where it is possible to follow the normal procedure of repeated balloting until one candidate or proposition attains a majority. Although this type of preferential ballot is preferable to an election by plurality, it affords less freedom of choice than repeated balloting, because it denies voters the opportunity of basing their second or lesser choices on the results of earlier ballots, and because the candidate or proposition in last place is automatically eliminated and may thus be prevented from becoming a compromise choice.\" Two other books on parliamentary procedure take a similar stance, disapproving of plurality voting and describing preferential voting as an option, if authorized in the bylaws, when repeated balloting is impractical: The Standard Code of Parliamentary Procedure and Riddick's Rules of Procedure.\n\nIn Australia, IRV is called \"preferential voting\", which has been used to elect members of the Australian House of Representatives since the 1919 federal election. Ballot papers are marked with the order of preferences: 1, 2, 3, etc. Counting of the ballot papers proceeds and when no candidate receives 50% plus one vote of the first preference vote (candidates with a number one), the candidate with the fewest first preference votes is eliminated and that candidate's votes are distributed to the remaining candidates. The process continues until a candidate accumulates 50% plus one vote, or a simple majority. Counting will continue to finality, which results in what is referred to as the two-party preferred vote, which expresses the electorate's voting preference equivalent to a 2-person election of the two most popular candidates. Most state and council (local government) elections also use the method.\n\nThe Australian Senate and the upper houses of some states use the single transferable vote.\n\nIn Canada, IRV is called the \"alternative vote\", which has never been used for federal elections but was used for provincial elections in British Columbia (1952 and 1953), Alberta (1926-1955 in rural districts), and Manitoba (1927–1953).\n\nIRV is used in whole or in part to elect the leaders of the three largest federal political parties in Canada, the Liberal Party of Canada, the Conservative Party of Canada, and the New Democratic Party of Canada, albeit the New Democratic Party uses a mixture of IRV and exhaustive voting, depending on the member. Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper won an IRV election to become party leader in the 2004 leadership election. In 2013, the Liberal Party of Canada membership elected Justin Trudeau as party leader through IRV in a national leadership election. In the 2017 Conservative Party of Canada leadership election, the party membership used IRV with weighted voting to elect Andrew Scheer as party leader.\n\nIn 2014, the Province of Ontario announced that municipalities would have the option to use IRV for local elections starting in 2018, and authorizing legislation was passed in 2016. London, Ontario subsequently decided to exercise that option 2018.\n\nIRV is used to elect leaders of the Green party.\n\nIRV is used to elect a small number of functional constituencies of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong, all of which have very small electorates.\n\nIRV is used in numerous electoral college environments, including the election of the President of India by the members of the Parliament of India and of the Vidhan Sabhas – the state legislatures.\n\nWhile most elections in the Republic of Ireland use the single transferable vote (STV), in single-winner contests this reduces to IRV. This is the case in all Presidential elections and Seanad panel by-elections, and most Dáil by-elections In the rare event of multiple simultaneous vacancies in a single Dáil constituency, a single STV by-election may be held; for Seanad panels, multiple IRV by-elections are held.\n\nIn New Zealand, IRV is known as the \"alternative vote\" or \"preferential vote\", which is used in the elections of mayors and councillors in single-member wards in some cities, such as Dunedin and Wellington. Multi-member wards in these cities use STV.\n\nIn the 1992 referendum on the voting method to elect members of the New Zealand House of Representatives, the alternative vote was one of the four alternative methods available (alongside MMP, STV and SM). It came third of the alternative methods (ahead of SM) with 6.6% of the vote. IRV, under the name \"preferential vote\", was one of the four alternative methods choices presented in the 2011 voting method referendum, but the referendum resulted in New Zealanders choosing to keep their proportional method of representation instead, while IRV came last with 8.34%.\n\nIRV (again under the name \"preferential vote\") was used on the initial ballot of the 2015–2016 New Zealand flag referendums for voters to rank their preferences about the five new flag options.\n\nIn Papua New Guinea, IRV is called \"limited preferential voting\", which since 2003 was used for the national parliament election, where voters are limited to ranking three candidates.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, IRV is commonly known as the \"alternative vote\", which is used to elect the leaders of the Labour Party and the Liberal Democrats. (The leader of the Conservative Party is elected under a similar method, a variant of the exhaustive ballot.) It is also used for by-elections to the British House of Lords, in which hereditary peers are selected for that body. AV is also used by members of parliament to elect the chairmen of select committees and the Speaker of the House of Lords. The Speaker of the House of Commons is elected by the exhaustive ballot.\n\nIn 2010, the Conservative—Liberal Democrat coalition government agreed to hold a national referendum on the alternative vote, held on 5 May 2011. The proposal would have affected the way in which Members of Parliament are elected to the British House of Commons at Westminster. It was only the second national referendum ever to be held within the United Kingdom and the result of the referendum was a decisive rejection of the adoption of the alternative vote by a margin of 67.9% to 32.1% of voters on a national turnout of 42%.\n\nIn the United States, IRV is used by several municipalities and other jurisdictions including San Francisco and Oakland, California, and Minneapolis and Saint Paul, Minnesota. United States private associations that use IRV include the Hugo Awards for science fiction, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in selection of the Oscar for Best Picture, and more than fifty colleges and universities for student elections.\n\nMaine became the first U.S. state to approve IRV for its primary and general elections for governor, U.S. Senate, U.S. House and state legislature, in a 2016 referendum. The state supreme court ruled this method of voting was unconstitutional for state general elections, but this ruling did not affect primary and federal elections. The state legislature attempted to repeal IRV for all elections unless the state constitution was amended, but this repeal was put on hold by a people's veto petition. The June 2018 primary election both used IRV to determine party candidates and Maine Question 1 passed, which blocked the repeal. Democrat Jared Golden became the first congressional candidate in the United States to win a general election as a result of IRV, defeating incumbent Republican Bruce Poliquin in second round balloting for Maine's 2nd congressional district in 2018. In the future, IRV will also be used for primary elections for federal elections and only primary elections for state offices.\n\nThe term \"instant runoff voting\" is derived from the name of a class of voting methods called runoff voting. In runoff voting voters do not rank candidates in order of preference on a single ballot. Instead a similar effect is achieved by using multiple rounds of voting. All multi-round runoff voting methods allow voters to change their preferences in each round, incorporating the results of the prior round to influence their decision. This is not possible in IRV, as participants vote only once, and this prohibits certain forms of tactical voting that can be prevalent in 'standard' runoff voting.\n\nA method closer to IRV is the exhaustive ballot. In this method—one familiar to fans of the television show \"American Idol\"—one candidate is eliminated after each round, and many rounds of voting are used, rather than just two. Because holding many rounds of voting on separate days is generally expensive, the exhaustive ballot is not used for large-scale, public elections.\n\nThe simplest form of runoff voting is the two-round system, which typically excludes all but two candidates after the first round, rather than gradually eliminating candidates over a series of rounds. Eliminations can occur with or without allowing and applying preference votes to choose the final two candidates. A second round of voting or counting is only necessary if no candidate receives an overall majority of votes. This method is used in Mali, France and the Finnish and Slovenian presidential election.\n\nThe contingent vote, also known as Top-two IRV, or \"batch-style\", is the same as IRV except that if no candidate achieves a majority in the first round of counting, all but the two candidates with the most votes are eliminated, and the second preferences for those ballots are counted. As in IRV, there is only one round of voting.\n\nUnder a variant of contingent voting used in Sri Lanka, and the elections for Mayor of London in the United Kingdom, voters rank a specified maximum number of candidates. In London, the Supplementary Vote allows voters to express first and second preferences only. Sri Lankan voters rank up to three candidates for the President of Sri Lanka.\n\nWhile similar to \"sequential-elimination\" IRV, top-two can produce different results. Excluding more than one candidate after the first count might eliminate a candidate who would have won under sequential elimination IRV. Restricting voters to a maximum number of preferences is more likely to exhaust ballots if voters do not anticipate which candidates will finish in the top two. This can encourage voters to vote more tactically, by ranking at least one candidate they think is likely to win.\n\nConversely, a practical benefit of 'contingent voting' is expediency and confidence in the result with only two rounds. Particularly in elections with few (e.g., fewer than 100) voters, numerous ties can destroy confidence. Heavy use of tie-breaking rules leaves uncomfortable doubts over whether the winner might have changed if a recount had been performed.\n\nIRV may also be part of a larger runoff process:\n\nThe common feature of these IRV variations is that one vote is counted per ballot per round, with rules that eliminate the weakest candidate(s) in successive rounds. Most IRV implementations drop the requirement for a majority of cast ballots.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33451944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33451944", "title": "Interaction between monetary and fiscal policies", "text": "Interaction between monetary and fiscal policies\n\nFiscal policy and monetary policy are the two tools used by the state to achieve its macroeconomic objectives. While for many countries the main objective of fiscal policy is to increase the aggregate output of the economy, the main objective of the monetary policies is to control the interest and inflation rates. The IS/LM model is one of the models used to depict the effect of policy interactions on aggregate output and interest rates. The fiscal policies have a direct impact on the goods market and the monetary policies have a direct impact on the asset markets; since the two markets are connected to each other via the two macrovariables output and interest rates, the policies interact while influencing output and interest rates.\n\nTraditionally, both the policy instruments were under the control of the national governments. Thus traditional analyses were made with respect to the two policy instruments to obtain the optimum policy mix of the two to achieve macroeconomic goals, lest the two policy tools be aimed at mutually inconsistent targets. But more recently, owing to the transfer of control with respect to monetary policy formulation to central banks, formation of monetary unions (like European Monetary Union formed via the Stability and Growth Pact), and attempts being made to form fiscal unions, there has been a significant structural change in the way in which fiscal and monetary policies interact.\n\nThere is a dilemma as to whether these two policies are complementary, or act as substitutes to each other for achieving macroeconomic goals. Policy makers are viewed as interacting as strategic substitutes when one policy maker's expansionary (contractionary) policies are countered by another policy maker's contractionary (expansionary) policies. For example: if the fiscal authority raises taxes or cuts spending, then the monetary authority reacts to it by lowering the policy rates and vice versa. If they behave as strategic complements, then an expansionary (contractionary) policy of one authority is met by expansionary (contractionary) policies of the other.\n\nThe issue of interaction and the policies being complements or substitutes for each other arises only when the authorities are independent of each other. But when the goals of one authority are made subservient to those of the other, then one authority solely dominates the policy making and no interaction worthy of analysis would arise. Also, fiscal and monetary policies interact only to the extent of influencing the final objective. So long as the objectives of one policy are not influenced by the other, there is no direct interaction between them.\n\nProfessor Eric Leeper has defined terminology as follows:\nIn case of an active fiscal policy and a passive monetary policy, when the economy faces an expansionary fiscal shock that raises the price level, money growth passively increases as well because the monetary authority is forced to accommodate these shocks.\nBut in case both the authorities are active, then the expansionary pressures created by the fiscal authority are contained to some extent by the monetary policies.\n\nDuring a negative supply shock, the fiscal and monetary authorities may follow conflicting policies if they do not coordinate, as the fiscal authorities would follow expansionary policies to bring the output back to its original state while the monetary authorities would follow contractionary policies so as to reduce the inflation created due to the cutback in output caused by the supply shock.\n\nDuring a demand shock (a sudden significant rise or fall in aggregate demand due to external factors) without a corresponding change in output, inflation or deflation may result. Here monetary and fiscal policies may work in harmony. Both the authorities would follow expansionary policies in case of a negative demand shock in order to bring back the demand at its original state while they would follow contractionary policies during a positive demand shock in order to reduce the excess aggregate demand and bring inflation under control.\n\nIn case of a positive fiscal shock (increase in fiscal deficits), aggregate output may rise beyond potential (sustainable) output due to the fiscally induced rise in aggregate demand. Subsequently, this leads to dissavings and lowering of investments which would depress output in the long run. Monetary authorities react in a countercyclical way to this, tightening monetary policy in the short run but perhaps in the long run adopting quantitative easing to counter the longer-term fall in output.\n\nIn case of policy shocks consisting of a sudden positive (negative) change in banking policy rates such as the statutory liquidity ratio, cash reserve ratio or the repo rates, the fiscal authority initially reacts by following expansionary (contractionary) policy but subsequently reverses.\n\nWhen an economy is a part of a monetary union, its monetary authority is no longer able to conduct its monetary policies independently in response to the needs of the economy. Under such a situation the interaction between fiscal and monetary policies undergoes certain changes.\nGenerally, the monetary union follows policies to keep the overall inflation at such levels so as to keep the overall gap between the actual aggregate consumption and desired consumption close to zero.\n\nFiscal policies are then used to minimise the country specific welfare losses arising out of such policies. Also, fiscal policies are used to stabilise the terms of trade and maintain them at their natural levels.\nGiven the common monetary policies and the price levels for all the nations under the union, the fiscal authority of the home country is led to follow contractionary policies in case of deterioration in terms of trade.\n\nIn case of a supply shock, while the weighted average inflation is at optimum levels, the inflation levels of the nations hit by such a shock may be far from optimum. In such a scenario, given that the degrees of price rigidity in all the nations are equal, the fiscal policies would achieve the dual goal of attaining optimum public spending and maintaining the natural levels of terms of trade only when the shocks hitting the nations under the union are perfectly correlated; otherwise either of the objectives is achieved at the cost of other as monetary policies fail to influence the terms of trade.\n\nBut in case of varying degrees of price rigidities amongst the nations, the terms of trade are no longer insulated from monetary policies. This is so because, the monetary policies would be directed towards keeping the inflation of the nations with higher degree of price rigidities at optimum levels so as to reduce their terms of trade losses and the fiscal policies of the rest of the countries would assume a relatively effective role in stabilising the national inflation as the price levels would respond to the change in public spendings. In short, lower the degree of price rigidities in an economy belonging to a monetary union, the greater would be the relative role of fiscal policies in economic stabilisation.\n\nThe European Central Bank was created in December 1998 and from 1999 onwards the euro became the official currency of the member nations of the European Monetary Union, and a single monetary policy was adopted under the European Central Bank. To ensure that the member nations meet the conditions for an optimum currency area, potential member nations were asked to commit to the following convergence criteria as spelled out in the Maastricht Treaty:\nIn addition to the above requirements, members were to maintain exchange rates within a specific band and bring inflation, long-term interest rates and budget deficits to levels specified in the Treaty. Meeting these criteria forced the member nations to restrict the adoption of stabilising fiscal policies and concentrate on inflation rates to bring them down to the levels spelled out in the Treaty. This led to changes in the structure of monetary-fiscal interactions in the member nations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32101249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32101249", "title": "International trade and state security", "text": "International trade and state security\n\nInternational economic structures range from complete autarky to complete market openness. This structure has undergone numerous changes since the beginning of the nineteenth century. The state-power theory as put into perspective by Stephen Krasner (1976), explains that the structure of international trade is determined by the interests and power of states acting to maximize their aggregate national income, social stability, political power and economic growth. Such state interests can be achieved under free trade.\n\nThe relationship between these interests and the level of openness depends upon the economic power of states. Power is dependent upon a states size and level of economic development.\n\nKrasner contends that distributions of potential power may vary from multipolar to hegemonic; and different international trading structures are made of either of these. The key to this argument is that a hegemonic distribution of potential economic power is likely to result in an open trading system. Since states act to maximize their aggregate economic utility, maximum global welfare is achieved under free trade.\n\nNeoclassical trade theory posits that the greater the degree of openness in the international trading system, the greater the level of aggregate economic income.\n\nRobert Gilpin and Stephen Krasner are advocates of the realist tradition, which emphasises the hegemonic system. The hegemonic system contends that there are states that are much larger and more developed than their trading partners and therefore, the costs and benefits of openness are not symmetrical for all members of the system. Krasner (1976) contends that the hegemonic state will have a preference for an open structure because it will increase its aggregate national income and power.\n\nRealism emphasizes states' demands for power and security. Military force is therefore, the most important power resource. States must rely ultimately on their own resources and must strive to maintain their power positions in the system, even at high economic costs. For realism, the most important variables are the economic and military strength of hegemonic states; and international hostilities are mainly because of variations in the distribution of political-military capabilities between states.\n\nThe theory of hegemonic stability by the realist school argues that dominance of one country is necessary for the existence of an open and stable international economy. The relationship between hegemony and an open, stable economy has been challenged by some scholars “As US behaviour during the interwar period illustrates, the possession of superior resources by a nation does not translate automatically into great influence or beneficial outcomes for the world.” \n\nRealist trade encourages Import substitution industrialization (ISI) replacing imports with domestic production. Realism recognises that trade regulations can be used to correct domestic distortions and to promote new industries.\n\nUnder realism, states possess a high degree of discretionary power to influence many variables and prices in the economy. The government influences the distribution of investment, thus protecting national industries.\n\nRealists with their focus on power and the struggle for survival in an anarchical world, criticize the role of international institutions that govern the world economy, such as the World Bank, World Trade Organization (WTO), EU, and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Scholars argue that the influence exerted by international institutions is dependent upon the states that form part of them, and therefore international institutions have little independent impact. Accordingly, the realist school emphasises the impact of state power over the strength of the institution per se.\n\nThe liberal tradition consists of two schools of thought on the causes of peace, one emphasises representative government and international institutions and the other advocates global markets and economic development.\n\nLiberalism traces back to Immanuel Kant. Kantian Liberalism posits that democracy, economic interdependence and international organisations are optimal solutions for reducing the incidence of conflict. It is not individual factors, which lead to a more peaceful world, but rather all three elements working in conjunction, which eliminates conflict.\n\nOneal and Russett’s (2001) research design has become a standard choice of replications in studies assessing the Kantian peace triangle where democracies tend to be interdependent and members of the same International Government Organisations (IGOs). Their research is consistent with the argument that democratic peace advocates economic interdependence and a joint need to attain membership in IGOs in order to prevent the incidence of conflict. However, the empirical findings on the Kantian peace triangle as a joint force to eliminate conflict presents some limitations, as one study found that the three Kantian peace variables are less robust in explaining leaders’ conflict behaviour. Keohane and Nye (2000) go further to include the lack of additional components in this theory including environmental and military measurements.\n\nLiberals emphasise two main aspects of the benefits of trade. First, trade promotes states to work together and cooperatively, reinforcing peaceful relations among trading partners. The second benefit is based on the expected utility model of trade and conflict which emphasises the potential economic consequences of a disruption in trade. Countries are therefore deterred from initiating conflict against a trading partner for fear of losing the welfare gains associated with trade.\n\nLiberals argue that economic interdependence between states reduces conflict because conflict discourages commerce.\n\nRecent cost-benefit calculations of trade take into account information as an important component in the explanation of the pacifying aspect of economic interdependence. Through open trade, states reveal their intentions and capabilities and thus “relations become more transparent and reduce uncertainty.”\n\nFurthermore, economic interdependence makes costly signals possible. If military action did not entail loss, national leaders would not be able to communicate their capabilities and resolve. This acts as a deterrent and promotes peace between states. “Mechanisms that facilitate the transmission of credible information across international boundaries limit bargaining failure, enhancing interstate peace.” \n\nThere is some disagreement about the interdependence liberal thesis among some scholars. Kenneth Waltz, for example, argues that since \"close interdependence means closeness of contact and raises the prospect of at least occasional conflict . . . the [liberal] myth of interdependence . . . asserts a false belief about the conditions that may promote peace.\" \n\nDespite the scrutiny, there is a long-held position that economic interdependence has a pacifying effect on interstate relations, evidenced by research conducted by Oneal & Russett 1999 and Xiang et al. 2007.\n\nAccording to the liberal view, the costly nature of conflict is central to contemporary bargaining theory.\n\nKeohane & Nye (1987) put forth four conditions that make the use of force by large states costly:\n\n\nLiberal trade encourages export led growth (ELG), leaving traders and consumers dependent on foreign markets. Liberals argue that these actors have an incentive to avoid hostilities with their trading partners, since any disruption in commercial relations would be costly.\n\nInternational institutions are a key feature of the liberal peace, because they represent credible signals of resolve to defend member states in times of crisis, regulate state behaviour, facilitate communication and create common security interests between member states.\n\nThe relationship between international trade and conflict has been a source of controversy among international relations scholars. Some scholars argue that trade does not reduce conflict even though conflict reduces trade; while others report that international trade fosters a peaceful disposition among states, which are less likely to resort to armed conflict in times of crisis.\n\nThe argument that open trade inhibits conflict dates back to the classical liberal movement of free trade and world peace. This view argues that increasing interaction among traders and consumers (interdependence) promotes peace; free trade fosters a sense of international community that reduce interstate conflict and tensions. Liberals posit that free markets and economic development contribute to a reduction in interstate conflict. The contrasting contemporary view is that open trade dampens political conflict by promoting economic dependence.\n\nEconomic dependence has negative consequences for interstate conflict. Albert O. Hirschman (1945) for example, has pointed out that the “gains from trade do not accrue to states proportionately and the distribution of these gains can affect interstate power relations. Moreover, shifts in power relations are widely regarded as a potent source of military conflict.”\n\nEconomic interdependence and greater openness exposes domestic economies to the exigencies of the world market. Social instability is therefore increased by exposure to international competition. This negative force undermines the Kantian peace and remains a cause for concern in international conflict. Although this concern seems legitimate given the economic disparities between developed and developing countries, studies fail to provide comprehensive empirical evidence.\n\nAnother view at odds with liberalism is that technological innovation and industrialization increase the ability of some countries to exercise power. As trade flows and the level of interdependence increases, so do the incentives for states to take military actions to reduce their economic vulnerability.\n\nThe adverse effect of trade on state security is difficult to determine, however the more competition, the more aggressive the environment. Openness and competition increases social instability because domestic prices need to adjust to changes in international prices. Consistent with the realists view that states are essentially always in conflict, social instability and resource competition are motives for conflict and states will rely on the use of force to attain their own political goals and interests.\n\nA number of international relations scholars, notably Xiang, Xu & Keteku 2007; Mearsheimer 2001, recognise the role of military power in initiating conflict, as well as the role militarily powerful countries play in international trade. One argument suggests that militarily capable countries are more likely to have the motivation to initiate armed conflict due to their awareness of their capabilities and to their confidence in achieving favourable outcomes.\n\nA second argument suggests that power facilitates trade. Third, there are positive benefits from economic interdependence on military power. Finally, the economic stature of a country determines both the military power and level of trade of that country, hinting that economic powerful states trade more. Because powerful countries are better positioned to take advantage of the benefits resulting from international trade and to transform welfare gains into military power, they also are more likely to use force when their positions are threatened.\n\nSimilarly, Gartzke & Hewitt (2010) argue that the “extension of economic and other interests beyond national borders increases incentives to police relevant regions and exercise influence, sometimes through force.”\n\nThe motives for conflict, which historically were concentrated among the powerful and their ambitious challengers, are today clustered among the poor, and between the poor and the rich (Gartzke & Hewitt (2010). Theory has prompted to inequality as a potential source of internal conflict. ”Inequalities within the same countries has increased, not through impoverishment of the masses, but because while wealth is created many people remain left behind in poverty. Thus, we have an unequal peace.\" Around 60 countries suffer not only from low GDP per capita but also low or negative growth. These countries tend to be caught in armed conflict among other development traps. Some argue that the evidence surrounding inequality and conflict remains inconclusive, calling for further empirical studies.\n\nStudies show that states with the most dissimilar interests possess a motive for conflict but whether they experience conflict (or not) depends on external determinants of bargaining success or failure. These determinants include uncertainty about the balance of power, opponent’s resolve as well as policy dissimilarities between competing states. Interests are important determinants of whether conflict occurs. According to Gartzke & Hewitt (2010), promoting democratic interests, or even imposing them for peace, is not likely to reduce conflict “it may even lead to a weakening of the actual determinants of liberal peace”, thereby increasing interstate tensions. Contemporary research demonstrates that promoting free markets and economic development helps mitigate conflict and promote peace\n\nThe capitalist peace thesis suggests that free markets and economic development contribute to a reduction in interstate conflict.\n\nResearch on the capitalist peace has chosen to pursue the liberal political economy school, with a particular focus on Kant's Perpetual Peace. The same set of theoretical frameworks that evolved in democratic peace research now asserts itself in the capitalist peace (Gartzke & Hewitt 2010, p. 121).\n\nThe capitalist peace sees capitalism as creating conditions to make war more costly and therefore undesirable by trading states. Traditional interpretations of the capital peace contend that development and global markets will eventually eliminate resource competition as a motive for war. This view was eventually deemed outdated, as “it became clear that needed raw materials would continue to make their way to industrial centers through free markets, rather than through mercantilist autarkies (Gartzke & Hewitt, 2010, p. 122).\n\nThe capitalist theory contends that as economies become stronger, prosperous capitalist states no longer need to threaten one another over access to inputs to production. Consequently, the security dilemma loses its relevance.\n\nScholars like Michael Mousseau argue that democracies are only peaceful in pairs. Other research has demonstrated that the democratic peace is even more exclusive than previously imagined, limiting the finding to developed democracies. Gartzke and Hewitt (2010) challenged this by demonstrating that it is economic development and market freedoms, rather than political liberty that result in interstate peace.\n\nInternational Government Organisations (IGOs) are designed to promote cooperation and inhibit political disputes. Institutional ties promote the exchange of information about the economic gains and losses of participating member states, thereby reducing uncertainty about the distribution of benefits.\n\nRegional institutions also present great influence in addressing issues beyond trade. Regional economic institutions help develop trade expectations for the future. “High economic stakes that states have in the continuation and growth of economic activity in the context of economic regionalism lead to a security community in which states develop a genuine interest in not only keeping peace with each other, but also defending their relationship against outside aggressors.” In addition to their role in dispute settlement, regional arrangements can deter aggressors from targeting institutionally connected states.\n\nAydin (2010) makes an important contribution to the extended deterrence literature and economic peace research through his empirical study on the deterrent effect of economic integration. This study shows that trade has a general deterrent effect on attackers when the target is economically integrated with potential defenders through regional trade institutions. When trade is conducted in an institutionalised setting it can have political implications beyond bilateral interdependence.\n\nResearch shows that economic integration decreases the opportunities to fight and enhances the opportunities to intervene in crisis. Mansfield & Pevehouse (2000, p. 776) present strong evidence that “the combination of PTA membership (preferential trading arrangements) and a high level of trade is quite likely to discourage belligerence.”\n\nMany PTAs have become venues for addressing political disputes between participants and fostering cooperation. Observers have widely acknowledged, for example, that ASEAN has helped to manage tensions in Southeast Asia. Mercado Comun del Sur (MERCOSUR) has done likewise, improving political-military relations throughout the southern cone. (Mansfield & Pevehouse, 2000, p. 781). The reciprocal nature of this system helps guarantee that economic concessions made by one state will be repaid, rather than exploited by its counterpart.\n\nAnother area to add to the existing literature on economic integration is the impact of militarized conflict on foreign investment.\n\nBussman’s (2010) contribution to the liberal notion that conflict inhibits foreign investment, complements the liberal peace arguments in conflict studies. Bussman’s research shows that international conflict reduces international investment flows considerably.\n\nBussman contends that “as with trade, foreign investment could be an important factor in promoting peace. States might avoid violent conflict in order not to deter foreign investors.” By ensuring political stability, states can thus create an environment that is desirable to foreign investors. It is therefore, in the best interest of states to keep away from belligerent behaviour as they could potentially miss out on the welfare gains associated with foreign investment.\n\nAs a result, states that benefit from foreign direct investment flows are less likely to experience the onset of militarized conflict.\n\n"}
{"id": "1873407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1873407", "title": "Iparretarrak", "text": "Iparretarrak\n\nIparretarrak (meaning \"the Northerners\" in Basque), commonly known as IK, was a Basque nationalist paramilitary organization operating in the Northern Basque Country, founded in 1973 by Philippe Bidart and other Basque activists. To date, 1982 remains as their most active year, with 32 attacks; despite having mostly targeted tourist developments, it has also assassinated a number of French police personnel. In 1984, they attacked the Biarritz airport before the arrival of the French president François Mitterrand, who was accused by IK of \"not respecting the Basque culture and national rights\". \n\nDespite sharing the same goals and methods, it held an uneasy relation with ETA, a more powerful organization based in the Southern Basque Country, mostly because ETA has used the Northern Basque Country as a hideout and did not want to provoke the French Government in this regard.\n\nIn 1998 it declared a unilateral truce, which broke when in 2000 it attacked a police station in Lecumberry and a tourism site in Bayonne. To date, it has not claimed any more actions, but another group, Irrintzi (probably numbering no more than one cell), followed IK's path in the French Basque Country by starting an on-off campaign against tourist targets.\n\nIn 2007 the leader and founder of IK Philippe Bidart was set free after serving prison since 1988.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12878050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12878050", "title": "LGBT rights in Oman", "text": "LGBT rights in Oman\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons in Oman face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. Homosexuality in the Sultanate of Oman is illegal according to §§, 33 and 223 of the penal code and can be punished with a jail sentence of up to 3 years. In Oman it is said that cases only get to court if \"public scandal\" is involved.\n\nIn 2013, an article in Omani newspaper, \"The Week\" (an English language weekly), suggested that Oman was more tolerant about people's sexuality than other Gulf states, even though homosexuality remains illegal there. The article traced the story of a young gay man in the country under the headline, \"The Outsiders\".\n\nIn response the government of Oman intervened to suspend publication of the newspaper. Furthermore, the article was denounced across online social networks in Oman and by the country's journalists' association. A member of the influential Shura Council, Tawfiq al-Lawati, tweeted that the article was advocating homosexuality and suggested Oman was a safe haven for gays. He called for the information ministry to take action against the paper for breaking the country's press code.\n\nSome Omanis countered that the article was simply documenting a truth about the country and it was the job of the press to reflect reality. The paper was subsequently forced to apologise with an entire front page article. The extravagance of the apology shows just how controversial it is to broach the issue of homosexuality with any sympathy in Oman.\n\nAs in all Gulf states, Oman does have an underground gay scene. It is widely seen as more tolerant than many of its neighbours as long as activities remain discreet.\n\nAdvocacy for LGBT rights in Oman is a criminal act, activists use social media with an alias to protect their identities with very rare exceptions.\n\n"}
{"id": "16925319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16925319", "title": "Leonardo da Vinci programme", "text": "Leonardo da Vinci programme\n\nThe Leonardo da Vinci programme is a European Commission funding programme focused on the teaching and training needs of those involved in vocational education and training (VET). The programme is part of the European Commission's Lifelong Learning Programme 2007–2013 and aims to build a skilled and mobile workforce across Europe.\n\nThe programme aims to enhance the competitiveness of the European labour market by helping European citizens to acquire new skills, knowledge and qualifications and have them recognised across borders. It also supports innovations and improvements in vocational education and training systems and practices. \nThe programme funds a wide range of actions, including transnational mobility and European projects focusing on the development or the transfer of innovation and networks. All of the projects funded by the Leonardo da Vinci programme involve working with European partners. The programme addresses trainees in initial vocational training, people on the labour market and professionals in vocational education and training, as well as any organisation active in this field.\n\nThe Leonardo da Vinci programme was started in 1995.\n\nIn 1998 the whistleblowing of Paul van Buitenen criticised misdirection of funds in the EU, particularly in the Leonardo da Vinci programme.\n\nA second, broader phase (Leonardo II 2000–2006) concentrated on skills and employability of young people.\nOf the 21,000 projects financed in this phase, 19,000 had to do with mobility, supporting 367,000 individuals.\nThe budget was €1.45 billion.\nPhase II was evaluated for the Directorate General for Education and Culture of the European Commission in 2008.\n\nIn 2007 a new programme was started, to run until 2013.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11755162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11755162", "title": "List of minority political parties", "text": "List of minority political parties\n\nThis is a list of political parties of minorities.\n"}
{"id": "38934668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38934668", "title": "Martyrs of Nepal", "text": "Martyrs of Nepal\n\nMartyr (; Shahid) in Nepal is a term for some one who is executed while making contributions for the welfare of the country or society. The term was originally used for individuals who died while opposing the Rana Regime which was in place in the Kingdom of Nepal from 1846 until 1951.\n\nLakhan Thapa is regarded as the first martyr of Nepal.\n\nRebelled against Juddha Shamsher Jung Bahadur Rana: \nSimilarly,\n\"Note: tanka prashad acharya was not given the death sentence as he was a Brahmin, and is often called a \"living martyr.\n\n"}
{"id": "37192620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37192620", "title": "NHS Health Scotland", "text": "NHS Health Scotland\n\nNHS Health Scotland is the national health education and promotion agency. A Special Health Board of NHS Scotland, its goal is to improve the health of the nation, via research, planning, programme implementation and evaluation.\n\nNHS Health Scotland provides leadership and helps to coordinate the work of other bodies, principally the 14 regional NHS Boards, in improving the health of the population and reducing health inequality.\n\nNHS Health Scotland was established on 1 April 2003, by the merger of the Health Education Board for Scotland (HEBS) and the Public Health Institute of Scotland (PHIS). It employs about 280 staff.\n\nThe work of the agency is focussed on:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12753201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12753201", "title": "National Union for the Liberation of Cabinda", "text": "National Union for the Liberation of Cabinda\n\nThe National Union for the Liberation of Cabinda (; UNLC) is a militant separatist group fighting for the independence of Cabinda from Angola. The UNLC emerged in the 1990s under the leadership of Lumingu Luis Gimby during the Angolan Civil War.\n"}
{"id": "49348506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49348506", "title": "National United Party of Arakan", "text": "National United Party of Arakan\n\nThe National United Party of Arakan (abbreviated NUPA) is a Rakhine political party in Rakhine State, Myanmar. It was formed in 1994 after a merger between four organisations, which included a faction of the Communist Party of Arakan.\n\nThe NUPA has openly worked with the Arakan Rohingya National Organization (ARNO) in the past, and has condemned ethnic and religiously motivated attacks by Rakhine Buddhists against Rohingya Muslims in Rakhine State, such as during the 2012 Rakhine State riots.\n\nOn 7 February 2001, the NUPA released a statement concerning the recent increase of violence towards Rohingya Muslims in Rakhine State:\n"}
{"id": "1906130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906130", "title": "New Public Management", "text": "New Public Management\n\nNew Public Management (NPM) is an approach to running public service organizations that is used in government and public service institutions and agencies, at both sub-national and national levels. The term was first introduced by academics in the UK and Australia to describe approaches that were developed during the 1980s as part of an effort to make the public service more \"businesslike\" and to improve its efficiency by using private sector management models. As with the private sector, which focuses on \"customer service\", NPM reforms often focused on the \"...centrality of citizens who were the recipient of the services or customers to the public sector.\" NPM reformers experimented with using decentralized service delivery models, to give local agencies more freedom in how they delivered programs or services. In some cases, NPM reforms that used e-government consolidated a program or service to a central location to reduce costs. Some governments tried using quasi-market structures, so that the public sector would have to compete against the private sector (notably in the UK, in health care). Key themes in NPM were \"...financial control, value for money, increasing efficiency...,identifying and setting targets and continuance monitoring of performance, handing over.. power to the senior management\" executives. Performance was assessed with audits, benchmarks and performance evaluations. Some NPM reforms used private sector companies to deliver what were formerly public services.\n\nNPM advocates in some countries worked to remove \"...collective agreements [in favour of]...individual rewards packages at senior levels combined with short term contracts\" and introduce private sector-style corporate governance, including using a Board of Directors approach to strategic guidance for public organizations. While NPM approaches have been used in many countries around the world, NPM is particularly associated with the most industrialized OECD nations such as the United Kingdom, Australia and the United States of America. NPM advocates focus on using approaches from the private sector–the corporate or business world–which can be successfully applied in the public sector and in a public administration context. NPM approaches have been used to reform the public sector, its policies and its programs. NPM advocates claim that it is a more efficient and effective means of attaining the same outcome. \n\nIn NPM, citizens are viewed as \"customers\" and public servants are viewed as public managers. NPM tries to realign the relationship between public service managers and their political superiors by making a parallel relationship between the two. Under NPM, public managers have incentive-based motivation such as pay-for-performance, and clear performance targets are often set, which are assessed by using performance evaluations. As well, managers in an NPM paradigm may have greater discretion and freedom as to how they go about achieving the goals set for them. This NPM approach is contrasted with the traditional public administration model, in which institutional decision-making, policy-making and public service delivery is guided by regulations, legislation and administrative procedures. \n\nNPM reforms use approaches such as disaggregation, customer satisfaction initiatives, customer service efforts, applying an entrepreneurial spirit to public service, and introducing innovations. The NPM system allows \"the expert manager to have a greater discretion.\" \"Public Managers under the New Public Management reforms can provide a range of choices from which customers can choose, including the right to opt out of the service delivery system completely\".\n\nThe first practices of New Public Management emerged in the United Kingdom under the leadership of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. Thatcher played the functional role of “policy entrepreneur\" and the official role of prime minister. Thatcher drove changes in public management policy in such areas as organizational methods, civil service, labor relations, expenditure planning, financial management, audit, evaluation, and procurement. Thatcher's successor, John Major, kept public management policy on the agenda of the Conservative government, leading to the implementation of the Next Steps Initiative. Major also launched the programs of the Citizens Charter Initiative, Competing for Quality, Resource Accounting and Budgeting, and the Private Finance Initiative.\n\nA term was coined in the late 1980s to denote a new (or renewed) focus on the importance of management and ‘production engineering’ in public service delivery, which often linked to doctrines of economic rationalism (Hood 1989, Pollitt 1993). During this timeframe public management became an active area of policy-making in numerous other countries, notably in New Zealand, Australia, and Sweden. At the same time, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) established its Public Management Committee and Secretariat (PUMA), conferring to public management the status normally accorded more conventional domains of policy. In the 1990s, public management was a major item on President Clinton’s agenda. Early policy actions of the Clinton administration included launching the National Partnership and signing into law the Government Performance and Results Act. Currently there are few indications that public management issues will vanish from governmental policy agendas. A recent study showed that in Italy, municipal directors are aware of a public administration now being oriented toward new public management where they are assessed according to the results they produce.\n\nThe term New Public Management (NPM) expresses the idea that the cumulative flow of policy decisions over the past twenty years has amounted to a substantial shift in the governance and management of the “state sector” in the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Australia, Scandinavia, and North America. A benign interpretation is that these decisions have been a defensible, if imperfect, response to policy problems. Those problems as well as their solutions were formulated within the policy-making process. The agenda-setting process has been heavily influenced by electoral commitments to improve macro- economic performance and to contain growth in the public sector, as well as by a growing perception of public bureaucracies as being inefficient. The alternative-generation process has been heavily influenced by ideas coming from economics and from various quarters within the field of management.\n\nAlthough the origins of NPM came from Westernized countries it expanded to a variety of other countries in the 1990s. Before the 1990s, NPM was largely associated to an idea utilized by developed countries that are particularly Anglo-Saxon. However the 1990s have seen countries in Africa, Asia and other countries looking into using this method. In Africa, downsizing and decrease of user fees have been widely introduced. These autonomous agencies within the public sectors have been established in these areas. Performance contracting became a common policy in crisis states worldwide. Contracting out of this magnitude can be used to do things such as waste management, cleaning, laundry, catering and road maintenance.\n\nNPM was accepted as the \"gold standard for administrative reform\" in the 1990s. The idea for using this method for government reform was that if the government guided private-sector principles were used rather than rigid hierarchical bureaucracy, it would work more efficiently. NPM promotes a shift from bureaucratic administration to business-like professional management. NPM was cited as the solution for management ills in various organizational context and policy making in education and health care reform.\n\nThe basic principles of NPM is can best be described when split into seven different aspects elaborated by Christopher Hood in 1991. Hood also invented the term NPM itself. They are the following:\n\nBecause of its belief in the importance and strength of privatizing government, it is critical to have an emphasis on management by engaging in hands-on methods. This theory allows leaders the freedom to manage freely and open up discretion.\n\nIts important to maintain explicit standards and measures of performance in a workforce. Using this method promotes clarification of goals/intent, targets, and indicators for progression.\n\nThe third point acknowledges the \"shift from the use of input controls and bureaucratic procedures to rules relying on output controls measured by quantitive performance indicators\". This aspect requires using performance based assessments when looking to outsource work to private companies/groups.\n\nNPM advocates often shifted from a unified management system to a decentralized system in which managers gain flexibility and are not limited to agency restrictions.\n\nThis characteristic focuses on how NPM can promote competition in the public sector which could in turn lower cost, eliminate debate and possibly achieve a higher quality of progress/work through the term contacts. Competition can also be found when the government offers contracts to the private sectors and the contract is given in terms of the ability to deliver the service effectively, quality of the goods provided, hence this will increase competition because the other private sector which did not get the contract will make strides to improve the quality and ability thereby facilitating competition.\n\nThis aspect focuses on the necessity to establish short-term labor contracts, develop corporate plans or business plans, performance agreements and mission statements. It also focuses on establishing a workplace in which public employees or contractors are aware of the goals and intention that agencies are trying to reach.\n\nThe most effective one which has led to its ascent into global popularity, focuses on keeping cost low and efficiency high. \"Doing more with less\" \nmoreover cost reduction stimulates efficiency and is one way which makes it different from the traditional approach of management\n\nNew Public Management draws practices from the private sector and uses them in the public sector of management. NPM reforms use market forces to hold the public sector accountable and the satisfaction of preferences as the measures of accountability. In order for this system to proceed, certain conditions, such as the existence of competition, must exist and information about choices must be available. Reforms that promise to reinvent government by way of focusing on results and customer satisfaction as opposed to administrative and political processes fail to account for legislative self-interest. Institutions other than federal government, the changes being trumpeted as reinvention would not even be announced, except perhaps on hallway bulletin boards.\n\nThere are blurred lines between policymaking and providing services in the New Public Management system. Questions have been raised about the potential politicization of the public service, when executives are hired on contract under pay-for-performance systems. There are concerns that public managers may move away from trying to meet citizens' needs. NPM brings to question integrity and compliance when dealing with incentives for public managers. Questions such as managers being more or less faithful arise. The public interest is at risk and could undermine the trust in government. Accountability can be a big issue.\n\nAlthough NPM had a dramatic impact in the 1990s on managing and policymaking, many scholars believe that NPM has hit its prime. Scholars like Frank Dunleavy believe New Public Management is phasing out because of disconnect with “customers” and their institutions. Scholars cite the Digital Era and the new importance of technology that kills the necessity of NPM. In countries that are less industrialized the NPM concept is still growing and spreading. This trend has much to do with a country's ability or inability to get their public sector in tune with the Digital Era. New Public Management was created in the Public Sector to create change based on: disaggregation, competition, and incentives. Using incentives to produce the maximum services from an organization is largely stalled in many countries and being reversed because of increased complexity.\n\nPost-NPM, many countries explored digital era governance (DEG). Dunleavy believes this new way of governance should be heavily centered upon information and technology. Technology will help re-integrate with digitalization changes. Digital Era Governance provides a unique opportunity for self- sustainability however, there are various factors that will determine whether or not DEG can be implemented successfully. When countries have proper technology, NPM simply can't compete very well with DEG. DEG does an excellent job of making services more accurate, prompt and remove most barriers and conflicts. DEG also can improve the service quality and provide local access to outsourcers.\n\nNew Public Management is often mistakingly compared to New Public Administration. The ‘New Public Administration’ movement was one established in the USA during the late 1960s and early 1970s. Though there may be some common features, the central themes of the two movements are different. The main thrust of the New Public Administration movement was to bring academic public administration into line with a radical egalitarian agenda that was influential in US university campuses. By contrast, the emphasis of the New Public Management movement a decade or so later was firmly managerial in the sense that it stressed the difference that management could and should make the quality and efficiency of public services. It focuses on public service production functions and operational issues contrasted with the focus on public accountability, ‘model employer’ public service values, ‘due process,’ and what happens inside public organizations in conventional public administration. That meant New Public Management doctrines tended to be opposed to egalitarian ideas of managing without managers, juridical doctrines of rigidly rule-bound administration and doctrines of self-government by public-service professionals like teachers and doctors.\n\nThe table below gives a side-by-side comparison of the two systems core aspects/characteristics \n"}
{"id": "27730492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27730492", "title": "PROGUN", "text": "PROGUN\n\nPROGUN is a firearms advocacy group based in the Philippines. The organization's name stands for \"Peaceful Responsible Owners of Guns\". It was founded in 1987 to make it easier for Filipino citizens to own and carry firearms. Although it started off as a non-political group, it became heavily involved in political lobbying and advocacy after a long period of inactivity during the early 2000s.\n\nFrom around 2009, PROGUN involved itself with political campaigns to protect firearms rights for Filipinos. Most notably, these included:\n\nAs part of its efforts to block the extended gun ban, PROGUN volunteers started a Gun Ban Statistics Project to record violent crimes during the 2010 Philippine Election gun ban. The projects goal was to challenge the official PNP's claims that the ban put in place during the 2010 elections was successful and therefore should be extended permanently.\n\nAs of 9 June 2010, the project recorded 429 incidents in which there were 359 injuries and 566 fatalities.\n\nIn line with Philippine law, PROGUN is governed by a board of 15 directors. After the resignation of Chairman Mike Melchor in June 2010, leadership was taken up by President, Atty. JJ D. Mendoza, and Secretary-General, Atty. Ticky Tabujara.\n\nThe organization's membership is made up of 15,000 card-carrying members but it also claims to enjoy the support of 1.2 million 'sympathetic' licensed gun owners throughout the Philippines.\n\nAt its inception, PROGUN was funded by the Association of Firearms & Ammunition Dealers of the Philippines, Inc. (AFAD). However, disagreements in approach to lobbying caused the two organizations to drift apart during the first decade of 2000. In 2010, AFAD backed the launch of a new firearms group, The A2S5 Coalition, which was formed to oppose the extension of the 2010 election gun ban.\n\nDuring the Philippine National Police Gun Summit in June 2010, a previously unknown organization called \"Total Pro-Gun Confederation\" was selected to speak on behalf of the Philippine Firearms community. Its designated representative, Mr. Christopher Punla, gave a controversial speech which appeared to mock the firearms community. PROGUN later issued a statement denying any connection with the \"Total Pro-Gun Confederation\", saying that it used the 'PROGUN' registered trademark \"without license or authority\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10222179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10222179", "title": "Palm branch", "text": "Palm branch\n\nThe palm branch is a symbol of victory, triumph, peace, and eternal life originating in the ancient Near East and Mediterranean world. The palm \"(Phoenix)\" was sacred in Mesopotamian religions, and in ancient Egypt represented immortality. In Judaism, the lulav, a closed frond of the date palm is part of the festival of Sukkot. A palm branch was awarded to victorious athletes in ancient Greece, and a palm frond or the tree itself is one of the most common attributes of Victory personified in ancient Rome.\n\nIn Christianity, the palm branch is associated particularly with Palm Sunday, when according to Christian tradition palm branches were waved at the triumphal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem. It was adopted into Christian iconography to represent the victory of martyrs, or the victory of the spirit over the flesh.\n\nSince a victory signals an end to a conflict or competition, the palm developed into a symbol of peace, a meaning it can have in Islam, where it is often associated with Paradise.\n\nThe palm appears on several flags or seals representing countries or other places, with the coconut palm associated with the tropics.\n\nIn Assyrian religion, the palm is one of the trees identified as the Sacred Tree connecting heaven, represented by the crown of the tree, and earth, the base of the trunk. Reliefs from the 9th century BC show winged \"genii\" holding palm fronds in the presence of the Sacred Tree. It is associated with the goddess Ishtar and is found on the Ishtar Gate. In ancient Mesopotamia, the date palm may have represented fertility in humans. The Mesopotamian goddess Inanna, who had a part in the sacred marriage ritual, was believed to make the dates abundant. Palm stems represented long life to the Ancient Egyptians, and the god Huh was often shown holding a palm stem in one or both hands. The palm was carried in Egyptian funeral processions to represent eternal life. The Kingdom of Nri (Igbo) used the \"omu\", a tender palm frond, to sacralize and restrain. Some argue the palm in the Parthian poem \"Drakht-e Asurig\" serves as a reference to the Babylonian faith.\n\nThe palm was a symbol of Phoenicia and appeared on Punic coins. In ancient Greek, the word for palm, \"phoinix,\" was thought to be related to the ethnonym.\n\nIn Archaic Greece, the palm tree was a sacred sign of Apollo, who had been born under a palm on the island of Delos. The palm thus became an icon of the Delian League. In recognition of the alliance, Cimon of Athens erected a bronze statue of a palm tree at Delphi as part of a victory monument commemorating the Battle of the Eurymedon (469/466 BC). In addition to representing the victorious League, the bronze palm \"(phoinix)\" was a visual pun on the defeated Phoenician fleet. From 400 BC onward, a palm branch was awarded to the victor in athletic contests, and the practice was brought to Rome around 293 BC.\nThe palm became so closely associated with victory in ancient Roman culture that the Latin word \"palma\" could be used as a metonym for \"victory\", and was a sign of any kind of victory. A lawyer who won his case in the forum would decorate his front door with palm leaves. The palm branch or tree became a regular attribute of the goddess Victory, and when Julius Caesar secured his rise to sole power with a victory at Pharsalus, a palm tree was supposed to have sprung up miraculously at the Temple of Nike, the Greek counterpart of Victory, in Tralles, later known as Caesarea, in Asia Minor. The \"toga palmata\" was a toga ornamented with a palm motif; it was worn to celebrate a military triumph only by those who had a previous triumph. The toga itself was the garment of the civilian at peace, and was worn by the \"triumphator\" to mark his laying down of arms and the cessation of war. The use of the palm in this setting indicates how the original meaning of \"victory\" shaded into \"peace\" as the aftermath of victory.\n\nCoins issued under Constantine I, the first Christian emperor, and his successors continue to display the traditional iconography of Victory, but often combined with Christian symbolism such as christograms. The Roman senator Symmachus, who tried to preserve Rome's religious traditions under Christian domination, is pictured on an ivory diptych bearing a palm branch in an allegorical triumph over death.\n\nIn Judaism, the date palm (Lulav) is one of the Four Species used in the daily prayers on the feast of Sukkot. It is bound together with the hadass (myrtle), and aravah (willow). The Midrash notes that the binding of the Four Species symbolizes the desire to unite the four \"types\" of Jews in service of God.\n\nDuring the Roman Empire, the date palm represented Judaea and its fecundity to both Romans and Jews. Roman sources praise the date as the produce of the province. The date palm was a frequent image for Judaea on Imperial coinage, most notably on the \"Iudaea Capta\" series, when the typical military trophy is replaced by the palm. The palm appears also on at least one Hasmonean coin and on coinage issued in 38–39 AD by Herod Antipas. Palm ornaments are found also on Jewish ossuaries.\n\nIn 1965, Judean date palm seeds dated at around 2000 years old were recovered during excavations at Herod the Great's palace on Masada in Israel. In 2005, some of the seeds were planted. One grew and has been nicknamed \"Methuselah\".\n\nIn contemporary Christianity, the palm branches carried on Palm Sunday originate in the triumphal entry of Christ into Jerusalem. Early Christians used the palm branch to symbolize the victory of the faithful over enemies of the soul, as in the Palm Sunday festival celebrating the triumphal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem. In western Christian art, martyrs were often shown holding a palm frond as an attribute, representing the victory of spirit over flesh, and it was widely believed that a picture of a palm on a tomb meant that a martyr was buried there.\n\nOrigen calls the palm (In Joan, XXXI) the symbol of victory in that war waged by the spirit against the flesh. In this sense it was especially applicable to martyrs, the victors par excellence over the spiritual foes of mankind; hence the frequent occurrence in the Acts of the martyrs of such expressions as \"he received the palm of martyrdom.\" On 10 April 1688 it was decided by the Congregation of Rites that the palm when found depicted on catacomb tombs was to be regarded as a proof that a martyr had been interred there. Subsequently, this opinion was acknowledged by Mabillon, Muratori, Benedict XIV and others to be untenable; further investigation showed that the palm was represented not only on tombs of the post-persecution era, but even on tombs of those who did not practice Christianity.\n\nThe general significance of the palm on early Christian monuments is slightly modified according to its association with other symbols (e.g., with the monogram of Christ, the Ichthus (Fish), or the Good Shepherd). On some later monuments the palm was represented merely as an ornament separating two scenes. Palms also represented heaven, evidenced by ancient art often depicting Jesus in heaven among palms.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, pilgrims to the Holy Land would bring back palms for deposit at their home churches. Crusaders would carry or wear an image of one, seen today in the Catholic Order of the Holy Sepulchre, which still awards a Palm of Jerusalem decoration. In addition, the Custody of the Holy Land, courtesy of the Catholic Church, bestows the Jerusalem Pilgrim's Cross on Catholic pilgrims to the city.\n\nThe palm is richly significant in Islamic culture, and the palm symbolizes rest and hospitality in many cultures of the Middle East. The presence of palm trees around an oasis showed that water was the gift of Allah. In the Quran, the palm appears in the paradisical imagery of the Garden \"(Jannah)\". In one prophetic tradition, the Dome of the Rock will stand on a palm tree issuing from one of the rivers of Paradise. Muhammad is said to have built his home out of palm, to have leaned against a palm while speaking, and to have raised the first mosque as a roof placed on palm trees.\n\nThe first muezzin climbed palm trees to call the faithful to prayer, from which the minaret developed.\nIn the Quran (19:16–34), Mary is said to have given birth to Jesus under a date palm.\n\nIn northern Sudan, the \"doum\" palm is the symbol of endurance \"(doum)\", and particularly of the Muslim saint who gave his name to Wad Hamid. The palm also appears on a number of coins from Islamic states, for example the 1970 Tunisian 1 dinar issue honoring the Food and Agriculture Organization, and several Iraqi coins of the 1970s.\n\nThe Latin motto of Lord Nelson is \"Palmam qui meruit ferat\", \"Let him bear the palm who has deserved it\". The motto has been adopted by numerous other organizations, including the University of Southern California.\n\nToday, the palm, especially the coconut palm, is a symbol of a tropical island paradise. Palms appear on the flags and seals of several places where they are native, including those of Malta, Haiti, Paraguay, Guam, Florida, Poland, Australia and South Carolina. It also appeared on the flag of the short-lived Tripolitanian Republic (1918–1923), though not followed in later Libyan flags.\n\nThe palm branch symbol is included in MUFI: ⸙ (2E19, ‘Palm Branch’ in Unicode).\n\nIn Arabic, the term \"Fog al-Nakhal\" (), which literally translates to \"above the palm trees\", is an idiom used to indicate euphoria, satisfaction or strong happiness.\n"}
{"id": "33674127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33674127", "title": "Penta Security", "text": "Penta Security\n\nPenta Security Systems Inc. () is an information technology (IT) security firm headquartered in Seoul, South Korea. Penta Security offers web application security, database security, and single sign-on solutions. Most recently, Penta Security has revealed plans to develop and implement a blockchain-based data market for automobile data. \n\nFounded in 1997 by Seokwoo Lee, and headquartered in Seoul, South Korea, Penta Security Systems Inc. is a provider of web application security products and core technology, with more than 3,100 installed customers in government, large enterprise, small and medium business, education, and finance and medical institutions.\n\nThe Japanese branch office was initially set up in 2006, while the subsidiary, Penta Security Systems K.K., was incorporated later in Akasaka, Tokyo, Japan in 2009. Penta Security Systems Corporation was later established in Texas, United States, in 2014.\n\nThe three branches (Penta Security Systems, Inc., Penta Security Systems K.K and Penta Security Co.) are focused on providing IT security needs and requirements of South Korea to Japan (2009), Thailand (2010), Malaysia (2011), Singapore (2010) Taiwan (2011), Australia (2011), Indonesia (2011), Rwanda (2013), and the United States (2013)\n\nPenta Security has a research and development center so that researchers can conduct independent technology studies for the company. The R&D center has over 70 research specialists, a large portion of its complete workforce. Penta Security also fosters potential future information security officers by hiring employees from vocational high schools and university collaboration programs for its R&D center.\n\n\nWAPPLES is a Web Application Firewall (WAF) that uses a logical analysis based engine rather than the traditional pattern matching method. The engine uses a system of 26 rules to execute logical traffic. Using this method, the WAF claims to have lower false positive rates than WAFs from competitors. The product has been certified by ICSA Labs, and is EAL4-CC and PCI-DSS certified. Although a hardware appliance, the product also supports virtual appliances for cloud environments.\n\nD'Amo is an encryption solution with multiple components that are optimized for different layers and environments. Using an FIPS-approved encryption algorithm, the solution claims to be Korea's first standardized encryption algorithm. Also, D'Amo is a CC EAL3+ Certified key management server. Different components within the product protect data through the different levels of the IT-infrastructure (application, system, network layers).\n\nCloudbric is Security-as-a-service (SECaaS) model that provides website protection at a low cost utilizing the WAPPLES' COCEP engine. The product won 2016's Best SME Security Solution at SC Magazine Awards Europe. The service launched as an independent startup in December 2017 with a $10 million business valuation.\n\nWith the emergence of the Internet of Things, or IoT, Penta Security began research and development of IoT security, ranging from smart car security to genuine product authentication. They launched their first IoT security solution in 2015. \n\nAutoCrypt is a security solution for smart, connected cars, allowing for security for vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V), vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I), and vehicle-to-device (V2D). The solution includes an advanced firewall utilizing WAPPLES technology, an authentication and encryption system for V2X communication, a key management system to store and generate encryption keys, as well as a public key infrastructure (PKI) system to generate certificates for vehicles. \n\nPenta Smart Factory Security is Penta Security's smart factory security solution which collects data and processes control within the smart factory environment. The solution covers both hardware and software-type encryption modules for endpoint security and includes PKI and a VPN server optimized for the IoT environment.\n\nD'EAL, short for D'Amo SEAL, is a solution to aid in preventing damage caused by counterfeit products. Using PKI-based technology and hardware duplication protection, the solution can be implemented into different wireless communication technologies such as electronic tags (in forms of stickers), and insertion into inner fabrics and metallic logos without compromising the brand design, while ensuring a high level of security.\n\nIn May 2018, Penta Security revealed to the press that plans were underway to create and implement a blockchain-based data market called AMO, short for AutoMObile. \n\nAccording to their website, they plan on having the mainnet of the blockchain available by 3Q of 2019. The data market will consist of the AMO Blockchain and the AMO Platform, which will support the blockchain and operations. Participants can be any individual, company, service provider, or manufacturer related to the automotive industry. As they participate in the market ecosystem, the participants will be rewarded with AMO Coin, the company's cryptocurrency which then can in turn be used to buy services or turn back into monetary assets. \n\nTo continue to develop the project, Penta Security expanded its offices to incorporate AMO Labs, based in Singapore. In April, they appointed Dr. Sang Gyoo Sim as CEO of AMO Labs. Sim was the original creator of AutoCrypt, the connected car security solution, and holds a Ph.D in Information Security and M.S. in Electrical Engineering from POSTECH. According to the website, he has had over 15 years of experience in IT security, and heads the Penta IoT Convergence Lab. \n\n\n1997\n\n1998\n\n1999\n\n2001\n\n2002\n\n2004\n\n2005\n\n2006\n\n2008\n\n2009\n\n2010\n\n2011\n\n2012\n\n2013\n\n2014\n2015\n2016\n2017\n\n"}
{"id": "41526979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41526979", "title": "Sarah Graham", "text": "Sarah Graham\n\nSarah Graham is an intersex activist and drug addiction counsellor and consultant. She was a member of the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs and is a co-founder of the Amy Winehouse Foundation. In recognition of her intersex activism, \"The Independent on Sunday\" called her an LGBT \"national treasure\" and ranked her second in its 2015 \"Rainbow List\" of the most influential LGBT people in the UK.\n\nGraham has XY chromosomes, but due to having complete androgen insensitivity syndrome (CAIS), she was identified and raised as a girl. Doctors lied to her and her parents about her diagnosis, subjected her to repeated medical investigations, and removing her internal testes (which they claimed were ovaries) at age seven or eight \"to protect her from cancer and imminent death\", resulting in her needing otherwise-unnecessary hormone replacement therapy from age 12.\n\nGraham was not given her CAIS diagnosis until she was 25. She was offered no support, and \"felt like a total freak ... like the only person in the world with the condition and that no one would love [her].\" Already a regular drug user, the diagnosis led to a period of self-destruction including drink and drug addiction. With support from a doctor, however, she recovered, saying \"I have turned my pain into my work\" and \"I'm now very happy with who I am ... I don't ever regret being born intersex now – except for the infertility – because it has made me very strong and understanding of our human similarities and the differences that make us each unique\".\n\nGraham worked as an addiction counsellor and therapist, running her own drug rehabilitation company including a weekly LGBTI addiction and recovery therapy group. She has written articles on drug addiction for a variety of newspapers and magazines including \"The Sun\", \"The Times\" and \"Diva\", and appeared on radio and television programmes including \"The Today Programme\", \"BBC News\" and \"This Morning\".\n\nGraham was on the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs from 2011 to 2017. She was an expert communicator for the government drug education service FRANK, and co-founded the Amy Winehouse Foundation.\n\nGraham was one of the UK's most influential activists for intersex human rights. She has spoken out against surgery to \"normalise\" intersex children's bodies, saying \"it's politically driven, to make society feel safer and reinforce the gender boxes: male/female, pink/blue.\" She has also investigated legal recognition of intersex as a distinct gender, and has praised Germany for allowing babies to be registered as neither male nor female.\n\nBecause of her activism, \"The Independent on Sunday\" listed her as a \"national treasure\" in its 2011 \"Pink List\", and in the renamed 2015 \"Rainbow List\" called her the second most influential LGBT person in the UK.\n"}
{"id": "2752856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2752856", "title": "Scientific communism", "text": "Scientific communism\n\nScientific communism was one of the three major elements of Marxism–Leninism as taught in the Soviet Union in all institutions of higher education and pursued in the corresponding research institutions and departments. The discipline consisted in investigation of laws, patterns, ways and forms of class struggle, socialist revolution and development of socialism and construction of communism. \n\nPassing exams in scientific communism was an obligatory prerequisite in obtaining any postgraduate scientific degree in the Soviet Union (see \"Kandidat\" for details).\n\nTypical courses of study included the following topics, among others:\n\n"}
{"id": "1358107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1358107", "title": "Siculish", "text": "Siculish\n\nSiculish is the macaronic \"Sicilianization\" of English language words and phrases by immigrants from Sicily (Italy) to the United States in the early 20th century, usually for humorous effect, or out of necessity. Many times, Siculish was used to Sicilianize the names of American places among immigrant communities, such as Bensonhurst, New York becoming nicknamed \"Bensinosti\". Indeed New York itself became known as \"Nu Iorca\".\n\nForms of Siculish are also to be found in other Sicilian immigrant communities of English-speaking countries, namely Canada and Australia. A surprising similarity can often be found between these forms, through either coincidence, trans-national movements of Sicilian immigrants, or more likely, through the logical adaptation of English using linguistic norms from the Sicilian language.\nSome common Siculish terms and an explanation of their derivation (not necessarily common to all Anglo-speaking countries):\n\nMany children of Sicilian immigrants will often confuse actual Sicilian words for Siculish. This will especially occur where both the Sicilian and English languages have basically the same word derived from Norman. For example the following are Sicilian words that could be mistaken for being Siculish: \"anciòva\" means \"anchovy\", \"trubbulu\" means \"trouble\", \"damaggiu\" means \"damage\", \"raggia\" means \"rage\", \"tastari\" means \"to taste\" and \"truppicari\" means \"to trip\" - but they are examples of Sicilian and English words with the same Norman derivation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1796852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1796852", "title": "Swadeshi movement", "text": "Swadeshi movement\n\nThe Swadeshi movement, part of the Indian independence movement and the developing Indian nationalism, was an economic strategy aimed at removing the British Empire from power and improving economic conditions in India by following the principles of \"swadeshi\" which had some success. Strategies of the Swadeshi movement involved boycotting British products and the revival of domestic products and production processes. L. M. Bhole identifies five phases of the Swadeshi movement.\n\nThe second Swadeshi movement started with the partition of Bengal by the Viceroy of India, Lord Curzon in 1905 and continued up to 1911.\nIt was the most successful of the pre-Gandhian movement. Its chief architects were Aurobindo Ghosh, Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Bipin Chandra Pal and Lala Lajpat Rai, V. O. Chidambaram Pillai, Babu Genu. Swadeshi, as a strategy, was a key focus of Mahatma Gandhi, who described it as the soul of \"Swaraj\" (self rule). It was strongest in Bengal and was also called vandemataram movement. Gandhi, at the time of the actual movement, remained loyal to the British Crown.\n\nCredit to starting the Swadeshi movement goes to Baba Ram Singh of the Sikh Namdhari sect, whose revolutionary movements which heightened around 1871 and 1872.\nNaamdharis were instructed by Baba Ram Singh to only wear clothes made in the country and boycott foreign goods. The Namdharis resolved conflict in the peoples court and totally avoided British law and British courts they also boycotted the educational system as Baba Ram Singh prohibited children from attending British School, amongst other forms and measures he employed.\n\nThe proposal of partition of Bengal became publicly known in 1905, followed by immediate and spontaneous protests all over Bengal. Lord Curzon asked Queen Victoria to separate Bengal. Because they were scared if the Muslims and Hindus got together they could start a war. 500 meetings were held in East Bengal alone. 50,000 copies of pamphlets with a detailed critique of partition were distributed. This phase is marked by moderate techniques of protest such as petitions, public meetings, press campaign, etc. to turn public opinion in India as well as in Britain against nothing else.\n\nThis movement also involved the boycott of British products. Western clothes were thrown onto bonfires.\n\nTo let the British know how unhappy the Indians were at the partition of Bengal, leaders of the anti-partition movement decided to use only Indian goods and to boycott British goods. People gathered at the cross roads and burnt the imported clothes that they had. People picketed the shops selling foreign goods, and imported sugar was boycotted. People also resolved to use things made only in India and this was called the Swadeshi movement.\n\nThe Swadeshi movement had genesis in the anti-partition movement which started to oppose the British decision to partition Bengal. There was no questioning the fact that Bengal with a population of 70 million had indeed become administratively unwieldy. Equally, there was no escaping the fact that the real motive for partitioning Bengal was political, as Indian nationalism was gaining in strength. The partition was expected to weaken what was perceived as the nerve centre of Indian nationalism. Though affected in 1905, the partition proposals had come onto the public domain as early as 1903. Therefore, since 1903, the ground for the launch of the Swadeshi movement had been prepared. In the official note, Risley, the Home Secretary to the Government of India said, \"Bengal united is power; Bengal divided will pull several different ways\".\n\nThe partition of the state intended to curb Bengali influence by not only placing Bengalis under two administrations, but by reducing them to a minority in Bengal itself. In the new proposal, Bengal proper was to have 17 million Bengali and 37 million Oriya and Hindi speaking people. Also, the partition was meant to foster another kind of division—this time on the basis of religion, i.e. between the Muslims and the Hindus. The Indian Nationalist clearly saw the design behind the partition and condemned it unanimously. The anti-partition and Swadeshi movement had begun.\n\nThe Bengalis adopted the boycott movement as the last resort after they had exhausted the armoury of constitutional agitation known to them, namely vocal protests, appeals, petitions and Conferences to coerce the British to concede the unanimous national demand.\n\nThe original conception of Boycott was mainly an economic one. It had two distinct, but allied purposes in view. The first was to bring pressure upon the British public by the pecuniary loss they would suffer by the boycott of British goods, particularly the Manchester cotton goods for which Bengal provided the richest market in India. Secondly, it was regarded as essential for the revival of indigenous industry which being at its infant stage could never grow in the face of free competition with foreign countries which had highly developed industry.\n\nLike the Boycott, the Swadeshi as a purely economic measure for the growth of Indian Industry was not an altogether novel idea in India. It was preached by several eminent personalities in the 19th century, Gopal Hari Deshmukh, better known as Lokahitawadi of Bombay, Arya Samaj founder Dayanand Saraswati and Bholanath Chandra of Calcutta. But the seeds sown by them did not germinate till the soil was rendered fertile by the grim resolve of a united people, exasperated beyond measure; to forge the twin weapons of Boycott and Swadeshi in order to undo the great wrong which was inflicted upon them by an arrogant Government, callous to the voice of the people.\n\nLater on, the economic boycott receded into background with the passage of time and it developed into an idea of non-cooperation with the British in every field and the object aimed at was a political regeneration of the country with the distant goal of absolute freedom looming large before the eyes of the more advanced section. Similarly, Swadeshi completely outgrew the original conception of promoting Indian industry. It assumed a new form based upon the literal connotation of the word swadeshi, namely attachment to everything Indian.\n\nIn the economic sense, Swadeshi would represent both a positive and a negative element. These have been discussed as under:-\n\nThe positive element of economic swadeshi was the regeneration of indigenous goods and panni,maadu,naai and paai. The boycott of foreign goods led to the increase in demand of indigenous goods especially clothes which felt short of supply. The mill-owners of Bombay and Ahmadabad came to its rescue. The Boycott movement in Bengal supplied a momentum and driving force to the cotton mills in India and the opportunity thus presented was exploited by the mill-owners. It was complained at that time that the Bombay mill-owners made a huge profit at the expense of what they regarded as ‘Bengali Sentimentalism’, for buying indigenous cloth at any sacrifice.\n\nBengal had to supplement the supply from Bombay mills by the coarse production of handlooms. The weaving industry in Bengal was a very flourishing one till the British ruined it after they had established their rule over the province in the 18th century. The economic boycott movement seemed to be a suitable opportunity for reviving that industry. The clothes produced were very coarse but were accepted by the Bengalis in the true spirit of the Swadeshi Movement. A song which became very popular all over the country urged upon the people to give the place of honour to the coarse cloth which is the gift of the Mother, too poor to offer a better one.\n\nThe negative element(This can be considered negative only with regard to the British) of the economic swadeshi was the boycott and burning of foreign goods. Though Manchester cloth was the chief target of attack, the movement was extended to other British manufacturers also, such as salt and sugar as well as luxury goods in general. The ideas of Swadeshi and economic boycott was kept alive and brought home to every door by articles in newspapers, processions, popular songs, enrollment of volunteers to keep vigilant watch and by occasion bonfires of foreign cloth, salt and sugar. The old apparels of foreign made belonging to sundry people were placed in a heap and then it was set on fire. The blazing flames were looked upon as a special mode of honouring noted public leaders and the bonfires greeting them were regarded as of great value as a means of infusing enthusiasm for Swadeshi.\n\nFines were inflicted on anyone found using foreign sugar. Foreign cigarettes were bought and burnt in the streets, Brahmins refused to assist any religious ceremonies in houses where European salt and sugar were used and Marwaris were warned of importing foreign articles. All these bonfires however affected the economy of the people. To burn 'Manchester-made goods' bought at a high price literally affects the people but swept by national enthusiasm, people continued to eschew and burn foreign goods.\n\nThe main points are:\nThe social boycott was an outcome of economic swadeshi movement. It was preached to go against the repressive measures of the Government. The social boycott was a very powerful weapon. A man selling or buying foreign goods or in any way opposing swadeshi Movement and helping Government in putting it down would be subjected to various degrees of humiliation. Such social ostracism would make a man quite unhappy, sometimes even very miserable and the Government could do very little to help him in his distress. But such non-violent ostracism was not the only form of persecution. Sometimes, the 'renegade' would suffer material loss and bodily or mental pain.\n\nStudents were promoting the boycott and swadeshi movement drew upon them the wrath and violence of the British Raj. Circulars were issued forbidding the students under threat of severe penalty to associate themselves in any way with the Boycott movement. Even the cry of Vande Mataram in streets and other public places was declared to be a punishable offence. Schools or colleges whose students disobeyed the order were not only threatened with the withdrawal of Government grants and even with disaffiliation, but their students were to be declared ineligible for Government Service. The authorities of the educational institutions were asked to keep strict watch over their pupils, and if unable to control them, were to report the names to the Education Department for taking necessary disciplinary action. The magistrates were asked to inform the teachers and those connected with the management of educational institutions, that if necessary they might be enrolled as Special Constables. The Direction of Public Instruction asked the principals of colleges to show causes why their students who took part in the picketing should not be expelled.\n\nAll this produced a storm of indignation in the country and the Indian-owned Press denounced the circulars in the strongest language. The people of Bengal took up the challenge. The students of some colleges in Rangpur defied the Government orders and when they were fined, the guardians refused to pay the fine and stabled a national school for the boys who were expelled. Teachers were also asked to resign for not whipping the boys.\n\nThe action of the authorities led to a movement among the students to boycott the Calcutta University which they described as Gulamkhana (House of manufacturing slaves). At a conference attended by a large number of very eminent men of Bengal in different walks of life held on 10 November 1905, it was decided to establish at once a National Council of Education in order to organize a system of education—literary, scientific and technical—on national lines and under national control. The number of national schools also grew apace with time.\n\nThe enthusiasm with which the two Bengals responded to the idea of national education shows the way in which the swadeshi movement, like a mighty river was overflowing its bed and inundating vast stretches of country. It was no longer confined to its primary object of industrial regeneration and boycotting British goods. More important still, the movement with its extended connotation was no longer confined to Bengal but spread to the whole of India.\n\nIt was perhaps in the cultural sphere that the impact of the swadeshi movement was most marked. The songs composed at the time of Rabindranath Tagore, Rajani Kanta Sen, Dwijendralal Ray, Makunda Das, Syed Abu Mohammad and other later became the moving spirit for nationalist of all hues. Rabindranath's Amar Sonar Bangla, written at that time, was to later inspire the liberation struggle of Bangladesh and was adopted as the National Anthem of the country in 1971. Similarly, there were great improvements in Indian art.\n\nThe writings of Vande Mataram, practically revolutionized the political attitude of Bengal. The four leading newspapers of Calcutta- the Bengalee, the Amrita Bazaar Patrika, the Indian Mirror and the Hindu Patriot protested against this division of Bengal. Apart from this, vernacular newspapers such as the Sanjivani and the Bangabashi expressed open hostility against this proposal. The Amrita Bazaar Patrika in its issue of 14 December 1903 called on the people of East Bengal to hold public meetings in every town and village to prepare petition for submission to the government, which was signed by lakhs of people.\n\nOther than boycott and burning of foreign goods, people also resorted to 'peaceful picketing' which destined to become a normal feature in almost every type of political agitation in future. All these gave the police a good opportunity to interfere. The volunteers were roughly handled and if they resisted, the police beat them with lathis. These 'Regulation Lathis', as they were called, were freely used by the police in the first instance to drive away the picketers and to disperse crowds, whether rioters or peaceful, if they were supposed to be sympathetic to the picketing volunteers. The uttering of Vande Mataram was an indisputable evidence of such sympathy and later it was made illegal to shout Vande Mataram in a public place.\n\nThe official phrase, \"mild lathi charge\" to describe the assault of the police, was a misnomer. It was certainly not mild as the gaping wounds on the bodies loudly proclaimed. The Government also issued instructions to the educational institutions to control their boys and prevent them from participating in the swadeshi movement. Rural markets were controlled bans were put on processions and meetings, leaders were put into confinement without any trial and loyal Muslims were made to go against the recalcitrant Hindus.\n\nIt is difficult to form an accurate estimate of the effect of the Boycott movement on the import of foreign goods in Bengal, as no exact statistics are available. It appears, however, from the official and confidential Police reports that for the first two or three years, there was a serious decline in the import of British goods, particularly cloth.\n\nPassive resistance could not go for long and its ultimate result could never be in doubt. This was the genesis of the sudden emergence of a network of secret revolutionary organizations which were determined to meet the Government on equal terms, by collectively arms and opposing terrorism by terrorism.\n\nThe Swadeshi partition and the Government measures also finally led to the split of Hindus and Muslims and virtually the formation of Muslim League in 1906. This was opposed by Mahatma Gandhi as he was against Hindu- Muslim Divergence\n\nAlthough Swadeshi was originally conceived as merely a handmade of boycott of foreign goods and meant only to be an urge to use indigenous in preference to foreign goods, it soon attained a much more comprehensive character and became a concrete symbol of nationalism. No less significant was that Swadeshi in Bengal brought into the vortex of politics a class of people-the landed aristocracy—who had hitherto held studiously aloof from the congress or any other political organization. Outside Bengal, it gave a rude shock of disillusionment to the whole of India and stimulated the political thoughts of the people. Swadeshi emphasized \"Aatma shakti\" or soul force. One particular aspect of the Swadeshi movement which M.K. Gandhi prized above everything else should be specially emphasized. It taught the people to challenge and defy the authority of the Government openly in public and took away from the minds of even ordinary men the dread of police assault and prison as well as the sense of ignominy which hitherto attached to them. To go to prison or get badge of honour and not as hitherto a brand of infancy.\n\nThe Swadeshi Movement had its genesis in the anti-partition movement which was stated to oppose the British decision to partition Bengal.\nThe Government's decision to partition Bengal had been made public in December 1903.\n\nThe official reason given for the decision was that Bengal with a population of 78 million (about a quarter of the population of British India) had become too big to be administered.\n\nThis was true to some extent, but the real motive behind the partition plan was the British desire to weaken Bengal, the nerve centre of Indian nationalism.\n\nThe Post-Independence \"Swadeshi Movement\" has developed forth differently than its pre-independence counterpart. While the pre-independence movement was essentially a response to colonial policies, the post-independence Swadeshi movement sprung forth as an answer to increasingly oppressive imperialistic policies in the post-Second World War climate. For a nation emerging from two centuries of colonial oppression, India was required to compete with the industrialised economies of the west. While rapid industrialisation under the umbrella of \"Five year Plans\" were aimed at enabling a self-sufficient India, the need to balance it with a predominantly agrarian set-up was the need of the hour. This need to preserve the old fabric of an agrarian country while simultaneously modernising, necessitated a resurgence of a slightly recast \"Swadeshi Movement\". Forerunners of this resurgent movement was noted journalist, writer and critic S. R. Ramaswamy. Others of late in the movement include the likes of Rajiv Dixit, Swami Ramdev and Pawan Pandit. In the Digital World Swadeshishopping.com taking novel initiative for promoting Swadeshi Movement.\n\nThe word \"Swadeshi\" derives from Sanskrit and is a \"sandhi\" or conjunction of two Sanskrit words. \"Swa\" means \"self\" or \"own\" and \"desh\" means country, so \"Swadesh\" would be \"own country\", and \"Swadeshi\", the adjectival form, would mean \"of one's own country\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41536762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41536762", "title": "Tiger Devore", "text": "Tiger Devore\n\nTiger Devore, previously known as Howard Devore and Tiger Howard Devore, is a clinical psychologist, sex therapist, and spokesperson on intersex issues. He is a former member of the now defunct Intersex Society of North America. The historian Alice Dreger credits him with starting the work of the intersex movement.\n\nTiger Devore was born with severe hypospadias and has experienced over 20 surgeries and four full reconstructions. He says that, \"all the surgeries I suffered up to age 19 were unnecessary failures.\"\n\nDevore has a PhD in clinical psychology and works as a sex therapist, activist and educator with over 30 years of experience in advocacy for intersex people and others who are sexually different from the mainstream. Devore has worked in research clinics at the Johns Hopkins Hospital Medical School, and the Human Sexuality Program at UCLA. During his time at Johns Hopkins University, he worked with the sexologist John Money. He has also worked for NIH as a crisis counsellor and worked with imprisoned sex offenders.\n\nAlice Dreger describes how Devore, through his work at Johns Hopkins University and as an \"out gay man in the 1970s-1980s in America\" developed an awareness about \"the clinical abuse of sexual minorities\". He began to work as an educator and appeared on the \"Oprah\" show in 1984, considered to be the first television appearance by an intersex person talking about lived experiences. Dreger describes how Cheryl Chase was referred to him in November 1992, how Devore \"taught her about the value of mutual support groups\", and how, in 1993, Chase announced the establishment of the Intersex Society of North America (ISNA). Dreger states that:\n\nDreger states that, despite the expertize offered by Devore and Chase at that time, \"reporters and producers generally counted Devore and Laurent only as intersex subjects, while I counted as a supposedly objective expert\". She states that these reforms still remain to be implemented in 2018. Devore continues to argues in favor of fully informed consent by intersex people to genital surgeries. He states:\n\nDevore has also argued against the use of disorders of sex development, as a term that is \"more scientific,\" and \"more medical,\" but also more treatable, and more of a stigma. In a statement in November 2015, Devore called for an end to unnecessary surgeries and \"recognition of the rights of the child to bodily integrity and self determination\", stating \"that medicine and the research community continue to co-opt patient advocates in order to silence them by giving us the impression that we had access to influencing medical practice and research.\"\n\nHe is a board member, and former president, of the Hypospadias and Epispadias Association, and a former member of the now defunct Intersex Society of North America.\n\n\nDevore has been an educator and media spokesperson on intersex issues since 1984 when he appeared on \"Oprah\". He has appeared in documentaries for Discovery Channel (2000), PBS, National Geographic Channel television, the British Broadcasting Corporation, and the award-winning short movie \"XXXY\" by Stanford University. Devore is also interviewed in the 2012 documentary \"Intersexion\". In 2013, he was interviewed by \"Time Magazine\" on the then-new German birth certificate laws, and called for a global ban on \"normalizing surgeries.\"\n"}
{"id": "1735628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1735628", "title": "Voter Vault", "text": "Voter Vault\n\nThe Voter Vault is a database of voters in the United States used by the Republican Party. Construction started in the 1990s, and it was first used in 2002. By 2004 it had about 168 million entries. The Democratic Party equivalent database is Demzilla. \n\n"}
{"id": "27121904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27121904", "title": "Workers' Party of Social Justice", "text": "Workers' Party of Social Justice\n\nWorkers' Party of Social Justice () is a Czech political party, often described as the major far-right extremist party in the Czech Republic. The party is not represented in any legislative body in the Czech Republic and its biggest electoral success so far has been a gain of 1,14% in the Czech legislative election in 2010. Some of the high-ranking party officials, including a Prague party leader, have been associated with neo-nazi groups such as \"Národní odpor\", Czech subsidiary of international militant neo-nazi group. In spring 2009 the petition for the ban of the party was dismissed by the Czech Supreme Administrative Court, because, as the presiding judge stated, the applicant (Czech government) didn't manage to provide sufficient evidence in what was seen as a botched application. Following violent attacks against Czech minorities by far-right extremists (such as Vítkov arson attack of 2009), the government filed a more detailed petition for the ban, which was discussed by the Czech Supreme Court in January and February 2010. The party was banned, making it the first instance of banning a party for its ideology in the modern history of the Czech Republic. The party was transformed into a \"Party of Citizens of the Czech Republic\" and the party was renamed to Workers' Party of Social Justice. The party's program was kept the same with small adjustments.\n\nThe program of the Workers' Party is not easily classifiable. On January 19, 2003, a day after the party was established, it published a press release that it planned to compete mostly with the Czech communist party and as late as in early autumn 2008 the Workers' Party program was considerably socialist, when the party's most important program point in the regional elections was an abolition of medical fees paid by Czech patients. The party received less than 1% of votes, but shortly afterwards attracted major media attention for organizing riots in quarters of Litvínov city with a significant Roma population. Afterwards, the party has managed to maintain considerable publicity by organizing a march against homosexuals in Tabor.\n\nThe party then started to emphasize a nationalist dimension of its program, mostly seeking to overhaul what they see as a favorable treatment of minorities, and engaged in radically anti-communist rhetoric; for example, on the 20th anniversary of the collapse of communism in Czechoslovakia, the party leader Tomáš Vandas said: \"So what is the state of the society nowadays? In one word: tragic. Communists still govern us.\".\n\nThe party claims that it is the only \"real opposition\" in the Czech Republic, since it is the only party opposing the Czech political system. The party has repeatedly called for the overthrow and subversion of Czech political system, which the party describes both as \"liberal\" and \"totalitarian\". Its official slogan for the 2009 European elections was \"Resist the totalitarian regime\".\n\nThe party's program includes reducing national debt while increasing old age pensions and reducing the retirement age. Some of the more concrete proposals include restrictions on foreign investment, including a total ban on purchases of real estate by foreign nationals and nationalization of certain companies.\n\nThe party also wants to restore the death penalty, criminalize \"sexual deviation\", including homosexuality, abolish registered partnership, reduce rights of the prosecuted and in some cases create new crimes with a retroactive effect. Some of the most controversial proposals include marking of ethnicity in ID cards and giving the police discretion to treat the arrested person inhumanly.\n\nIn international affairs, the party opposes NATO and European Union and demands that the Czech Republic leave those organizations. The party is strongly anti-American and seems to be pro-Russian, going as far as stating that the Czech Republic must \"immediately and strongly restore its relations with Russia\" Concerning other matters in international affairs, the chairman of the party arbitration commission congratulated Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran after his victory in the 2009 presidential election. Party also cooperates with Slovak party People's Party – Our Slovakia.\n\nThe party has never denied that its ideology is national socialism, but states that it is not inspired by Hitler's variant of national socialism. However, political scientists who researched the party's ideology noted that \"The party materials and works of its supporters feature, both implicitly and explicitly, religious symbols that are strongly related to Germanic neopaganism\".\n"}
{"id": "54745832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54745832", "title": "Yes Campaign", "text": "Yes Campaign\n\nYes Campaign () is a Catalan campaign made up of different organisations and individuals campaigning in favor for a \"Yes\" vote in the Catalan independence referendum, 2017. It was launched on 3 August 2017.\n\nThe campaign is promoted by the Catalan National Assembly and includes Òmnium Cultural, Association of Municipalities for Independence, Catalan European Democratic Party, Republican Left of Catalonia, Popular Unity Candidacy, Democrats of Catalonia, Left Movement and Catalan Solidarity for Independence.\n\n"}
