{"id": "2706791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2706791", "title": "ATutor", "text": "ATutor\n\nATutor is an Open Source Web-based Learning Content Management System (LCMS).\n\nATutor is used in various contexts, including online course management, continuing professional development for teachers, career development, and academic research. The software is cited as unique for its accessibility features, (useful to visually impaired and disabled learners); and for its suitability for educational use according to software evaluation criteria established by The American Society for Training and Development (ASTD). ATutor is used internationally and has been translated into over fifteen languages with support for over forty additional language modules currently under development.\nATutor is the first LCMS to comply completely with the accessibility specifications of W3C WCAG 1.0 at the AA+ level, allowing the access to all the included content of the system at all levels of user-privilege, including administrator accounts. Its conformity with XHTML 1.0 is intended to ensure that ATutor is presented and displayed consistently in any compatible technology.\n\nATutor's developers assert that it is the only fully accessible LCMS software on the market, including for-fee and closed source software. This aspect of ATutor has been affirmed in at least one University-published review of the software. ATutor is also cited in numerous technical reviews and scholarly articles; and many third-party extensions have been developed and distributed for use with the software.\n\nATutor was first released in late 2002. It came in response to two studies conducted by the developer in the years prior that looked at the accessibility of online learning systems to people with disabilities. Results of the studies showed none of the popular Learning Management Systems at the time even provided minimal conformance with accessibility guidelines. At the time a blind person for instance, could not participate fully in online courses.\n\nTwo, of many, accessibility features in the system are text alternatives for all visual elements, and keyboard access to all elements of the program. With these features, a blind person can listen to the entire interface of the system with the help of a screen reader, and he or she can access the system without needing a mouse. These features also allow ATutor to adapt to a wide variety of technologies including cell phones, personal data assistants (PDAs), and text-based Web browsers, to name a few.\n\nATutor includes a content authoring tool that prompts content developers to create accessible learning materials. Such prompts encourage authors to add a text alternatives if they forget to include one when adding an image, for instance. The authoring tool also includes a Web service that evaluates the accessibility of authored content against various international standards. In addition to creating accessible content, the tool is itself accessible, allowing a blind user to create content themselves.\n\nATutor is also designed for adaptability to any of several teaching and learning scenarios. There are four main areas that reflect this design principle: themes, privileges, tool modules, and groups.\n\nThe ATutor theme system allows administrators to easily customize the look and layout of the system to their particular needs. Themes are used to give ATutor a new look, to give categories of courses their own look, or to provide multiple versions of ATutor on a single system, from which users could choose one as a preference setting.\n\nThe privilege system allows instructors to assign tool management privileges to particular members of a course. Instructors may create assistants or course tutors that had limited control over any of the authoring or management tools.\n\nATutor is one of three open source learning management systems named in a formal challenge to an e-learning patent issued to Blackboard Inc. in July 2006. The Software Freedom Law Center filed a re-examination request on behalf of ATutor, and two other clients in late 2006. In early 2007 the re-examination request was granted by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). If successful, the request will ultimately lead to the cancellation of all 44 claims of the Blackboard patent.\n\nIn support of the challenge to the Blackboard patent, volunteers across the Internet found examples of older programs that used ideas claimed by the patent. These volunteers collaborated to make a Wikipedia article on the History of virtual learning environments, which documents several examples of prior art.\n\nAdditionally, Greg Gay, project lead of ATutor asserted in support of the re-examination request: \"A patent on an educational concept -- namely the relationship among students, instructors, and administrators -- makes no sense. Such ideas are public and have been practiced for centuries; they are not the result of research and development.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39766702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39766702", "title": "Activism", "text": "Activism\n\nActivism consists of efforts to promote, impede, direct, or intervene in social, political, economic, or environmental reform with the desire to make changes in society. Forms of activism range from writing letters to newspapers, petitioning elected officials, running or contributing to a political campaign, preferential patronage (or boycott) of businesses, and demonstrative forms of activism like rallies, street marches, strikes, sit-ins, or hunger strikes.\n\nActivism may be performed on a day-to-day basis in a wide variety of ways, including through the creation of art (artivism), computer hacking (hacktivism), or simply in how one chooses to spend their money (economic activism). For example, the refusal to buy clothes or other merchandise from a company as a protest against the exploitation of workers by that company could be considered an expression of activism. However, the most highly visible and impactful activism often comes in the form of collective action, in which numerous individuals coordinate an act of protest together in order to make a bigger impact. Collective action that is purposeful, organized, and sustained over a period of time becomes known as a social movement.\n\nHistorically, activists have used literature, including pamphlets, tracts, and books to disseminate their messages and attempt to persuade their readers of the justice of their cause. Research has now begun to explore how contemporary activist groups use social media to facilitate civic engagement and collective action combining politics with technology.\n\nThe \"Online Etymology Dictionary\" records the English words \"activism\" and \"activist\" as in use in the political sense from the year 1920 or 1915 respectively.\n\nThe history of the word \"activism\" traces back to earlier understandings of collective behavior and social action. As late as 1969 \"activism was\" defined as \"the policy or practice of doing things with decision and energy\", without regard to a political signification, whereas \"social action was\" defined as \"organized action taken by a group to improve social conditions\", without regard to normative status. Following the surge of so-called \"new social movements\" in the United States in the 1960's, a new understanding of activism emerged as a rational and acceptable democratic option of protest or appeal. However, the history of the existence of revolt through organized or unified protest in recorded history dates back to the slave revolts of the 1st century BC(E) in the Roman Empire, where under the leadership of former gladiator Spartacus 6,000 slaves rebelled and were crucified from Capua to Rome in what became known as the Third Servile War.\n\nIn English history, the Peasant's Revolt erupted in response to the imposition of a poll tax, and has been paralleled by other rebellions and revolutions in Hungary, Russia, and more recently, for example, Hong Kong. In 1930 under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi thousands of protesting Indians participated in the Salt March as a protest against the oppressive taxes of their government, resulting in the imprisonment of 60,000 people and eventual independence for their nation. In nations throughout Asia, Africa and South America, the prominence of activism organized by social movements and especially under the leadership of civil activists or social revolutionaries has pushed for increasing national self-reliance or, in some parts of the developing world, collectivist communist or socialist organization and affiliation. Activism has had major impacts on Western societies as well, particularly over the past century through social movements such as the Labour movement, the Women's Rights movement, and the Civil Rights movement.\n\nActivists can function in a number of roles, including judicial, environmental, internet (technological) and design. Historically, most activism has focused on creating substantive changes in the policy or practice of a government or industry. Some activists try to persuade people to change their behavior directly (see also direct action), rather than to persuade governments to change laws. For example, the cooperative movement seeks to build new institutions which conform to cooperative principles, and generally does not lobby or protest politically. Other activists try to persuade people or government policy to remain the same, in an effort to counter change.\n\nActivism is not always an activity performed by those who profess activism as a profession. The term activist may apply broadly to anyone who engages in activism, or be more narrowly limited to those who choose political or social activism as a vocation or characteristic practice.\n\nJudicial activism involves the efforts of public officials. Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. - American historian, public intellectual, and social critic - introduced the term \"judicial activism\" in a January 1946 \"Fortune\" magazine article titled \"The Supreme Court: 1947\". Activists can also be public watchdogs and whistle blowers, attempting to understand all the actions of every form of government that acts in the name of the people and hold it accountable to oversight and transparency. Activism involves an engaged citizenry.\n\nEnvironmental activism describes the actions of those who believe in protecting the Earth's natural environment. This can include a wide range of approaches.\n\nThe power of Internet activism came into a global lens with the Arab Spring protests starting in late 2010. People living in the Middle East and North African countries that were experiencing revolutions used social networking to communicate information about protests, including videos recorded on smart phones, which put the issues in front of an international audience. This was the one of the first occasions in which social networking technology was used by citizen-activists to circumvent state-controlled media and communicate directly with the rest of the world. These types of practices of Internet activism were later picked up and used by other activists in subsequent mass mobilizations, such as the 15-M Movement in Spain in 2011, Occupy Gezi in Turkey in 2013, and more.\n\nInternet activism may also refer to activism which focuses on protecting or changing the Internet itself, also known as digital rights. The Digital Rights movement consists of activists and organizations, such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation, who work to protect the rights of people in relation to new technologies, particularly concerning the Internet and other information and communications technologies.\n\nActivism in literature (not to be confused with literary activism) includes the expression of intended or advocated reforms, realized or unachieved, through published, written or verbally promoted or communicated forms.\n\nEconomic activism involves using economic power for change. Both conservative and liberal groups use economic activism to as a form of pressure to influence companies and organizations to oppose or support particular political, religious, or social values and behaviors. This is typically done either through preferential patronage to reinforce \"good\" behavior and support companies one would like to succeed, or through boycott or divestment to penalize \"bad\" behavior and pressure companies to change or go out of business.\n\nConsumer activism consists of activism carried out on behalf of consumers for consumer protection or by consumers themselves. For example, activists in the free produce movement of the late 1700s protested against slavery by boycotting goods produced with slave labor. Today, vegetarianism, veganism, and freeganism are all forms of consumer activism which boycott certain types of products. Other examples of consumer activism include simple living, a minimalist lifestyle intended to reduce materialism and conspicuous consumption, and tax resistance, a form of direct action and civil disobedience in opposition to the government that is imposing the tax, to government policy, or as opposition to taxation in itself.\n\nShareholder activism involves shareholders using an equity stake in a corporation to put pressure on its management. The goals of activist shareholders range from financial (increase of shareholder value through changes in corporate policy, financing structure, cost cutting, etc.) to non-financial (disinvestment from particular countries, adoption of environmentally friendly policies, etc.).\n\nActivists employ many different methods, or tactics, in pursuit of their goals. Decisions over what tactics to use or not may be planned carefully in advance, result from negotiations with law enforcement such as when and where to hold a rally, or be made in the heat of the moment. The tactics chosen are significant because they can determine how activists are perceived and what they are capable of accomplishing. For example, nonviolent tactics generally tend to garner more public sympathy than violent ones and are more than twice as effective in achieving stated goals.\n\nCharles Tilly developed the concept of a “repertoire of contention,” which describes the full range of tactics available to activists at a given time and place. This repertoire consists of all of the tactics which have been proven to be successful by activists in the past, such as boycotts, petitions, marches, and sit-ins, and can be drawn upon by any new activists and social movements. Activists may also innovate new tactics of protest. These may be entirely novel, such as Douglas Schuler's idea of an \"activist road trip\", or may occur in response to police oppression or countermovement resistance. New tactics then spread to others through a social process known as diffusion, and if successful, may become new additions to the activist repertoire.\n\nMany contemporary activists now utilize new tactics through the Internet and other information and communication technologies (ICTs), also known as Internet activism or cyber-activism. Some scholars argue that many of these new tactics are digitally analogous to the traditional offline tools of contention. Other digital tactics may be entire new and unique, such as certain types of hacktivism. Together they form a new \"digital repertoire of contention\" alongside the existing offline one. The rising use of digital tools and platforms by activists has also increasingly led to the creation of decentralized networks of activists that are self-organized and leaderless, or what is known as franchise activism.\n\nCommon methods used for activism include:\n\n\nSome groups and organizations participate in activism to such an extent that it can be considered as an industry. In these cases, activism is often done full-time, as part of an organization's core business. Many organizations in the activism industry are either non-profit organizations or non-governmental organizations with specific aims and objectives in mind. Most activist organizations do not manufacture goods, but rather mobilized personnel to recruit funds and gain media coverage.\n\nThe term \"activism industry\" has often been used to refer to outsourced fundraising operations. However, activist organizations engage in other activities as well. Lobbying, or the influencing of decisions made by government, is another activist tactic. Many groups, including law firms, have designated staff assigned specifically for lobbying purposes. In the United States, lobbying is regulated by the federal government.\n\nMany government systems encourage public support of non-profit organizations by granting various forms of tax relief for donations to charitable organizations. Governments may attempt to deny these benefits to activists by restricting the political activity of tax-exempt organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "243597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=243597", "title": "Albert Ellis", "text": "Albert Ellis\n\nAlbert Ellis (September 27, 1913 – July 24, 2007) was an American psychologist who in 1955 developed Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy (REBT). He held MA and PhD degrees in clinical psychology from Columbia University and the American Board of Professional Psychology (ABPP). He also founded and was the President of the New York City-based Albert Ellis Institute for decades. He is generally considered to be one of the originators of the cognitive revolutionary paradigm shift in psychotherapy and one of the founders of cognitive-behavioral therapies. \n\nBased on a 1982 professional survey of US and Canadian psychologists, he was considered as the second most influential psychotherapist in history (Carl Rogers ranked first in the survey; Sigmund Freud was ranked third). \"Psychology Today\" noted, \"No individual—not even Freud himself—has had a greater impact on modern psychotherapy.\"\n\nEllis was born to a Jewish family in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, US, in 1913. He was the eldest of three children. Ellis' father was a businessman, often away from home on business trips, who reportedly showed only a modicum of affection to his children.\n\nIn his autobiography, Ellis characterized his mother as a self-absorbed woman with a bipolar disorder. At times, according to Ellis, she was a \"bustling chatterbox who never listened.\" She would expound on her strong opinions on most subjects, but rarely provided a factual basis for these views. Like his father, Ellis' mother was emotionally distant from her children. Ellis recounted that she was often sleeping when he left for school and usually not home when he returned. Instead of reporting feeling bitter, he took on the responsibility of caring for his siblings. He purchased an alarm clock with his own money and woke and dressed his younger brother and sister. When the Great Depression struck, all three children sought work to assist the family. Ellis was sickly as a child and suffered numerous health problems throughout his youth. At the age of five he was hospitalized with a kidney disease. He was also hospitalized with tonsillitis, which led to a severe streptococcal infection requiring emergency surgery. He reported that he had eight hospitalizations between the ages of five and seven, one of which lasted nearly a year. His parents provided little emotional support for him during these years, rarely visiting or consoling him. Ellis stated that he learned to confront his adversities as he had \"developed a growing indifference to that dereliction\". Illness was to follow Ellis throughout his life; at age 40 he developed diabetes.\n\nEllis had exaggerated fears of speaking in public and during his adolescence, he was extremely shy around women. At age 19, already showing signs of thinking like a cognitive-behavioral therapist, he forced himself to talk to 100 women in the Bronx Botanical Gardens over a period of a month. Even though he did not get a date, he reported that he desensitized himself to his fear of rejection by women.\n\nEllis entered the field of clinical psychology after first earning a Bachelor of Arts degree in business from what was then known as the City College of New York Downtown in 1934. He began a brief career in business, followed by one as a writer. These endeavors took place during the Great Depression that began in 1929, and Ellis found that business was poor and had no success in publishing his fiction. Finding that he could write non-fiction well, Ellis researched and wrote on human sexuality. His lay counseling in this subject convinced him to seek a new career in clinical psychology.\n\nIn 1942, Ellis began his studies for a PhD in clinical psychology at Teachers College, Columbia University, which trained psychologists mostly in psychoanalysis. He completed his Master of Arts in clinical psychology from Teachers College in June 1943, and started a part-time private practice while still working on his PhD degree—possibly because there was no licensing of psychologists in New York at that time. Ellis began publishing articles even before receiving his PhD; in 1946 he wrote a critique of many widely used pencil-and-paper personality tests. He concluded that only the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory met the standards of a research-based instrument.\n\nIn 1947, he was awarded a PhD in Clinical Psychology at Columbia, and at that time Ellis had come to believe that psychoanalysis was the deepest and most effective form of therapy. Like most psychologists of that time, he was interested in the theories of Sigmund Freud. He sought additional training in psychoanalysis and then began to practice classical psychoanalysis. Shortly after receiving his PhD in 1947, Ellis began a Jungian analysis and program of supervision with Richard Hulbeck, a leading analyst at the Karen Horney Institute (whose own analyst had been Hermann Rorschach, the developer of the Rorschach inkblot test). At that time he taught at New York University, Rutgers University, and Pittsburg State University and held a couple of leading staff positions. At this time, Ellis' faith in psychoanalysis was gradually crumbling.\n\nThe writings of Karen Horney, Alfred Adler, Erich Fromm and Harry Stack Sullivan would be some of the influences in Ellis's thinking and played a role in shaping his psychological models. Ellis credits Alfred Korzybski, his book, \"Science and Sanity\", and general semantics for starting him on the philosophical path for founding rational therapy. In addition, modern and ancient philosophy (particularly stoicism), and his own experiences heavily influenced his new theoretical developments to psychotherapy. Ellis acknowledged that his therapy was \"by no means entirely new\", as in particular Paul Charles Dubois's \"rational persuasion\" had prefigured some of its main principals; Ellis stated he had read him some years after inventing his therapy, but had studied Émile Coué since a young age.\n\nFrom the late 1940s onwards, Ellis worked on rational emotive behavioral therapy (REBT), and by January 1953 his break with psychoanalysis was complete, and he began calling himself a rational therapist. Ellis was now advocating a new more active and directive type of psychotherapy. In 1955, he presented rational therapy (RT). In RT, the therapist sought to help the client understand—and act on the understanding—that his personal philosophy contained beliefs that contributed to his own emotional pain. This new approach stressed actively working to change a client's self-defeating beliefs and behaviours by demonstrating their irrationality, self-defeatism and rigidity. Ellis believed that through rational analysis and cognitive reconstruction, people could understand their self-defeatingness in light of their core irrational beliefs and then develop more rational constructs.\n\nIn 1954, Ellis began teaching his new techniques to other therapists, and by 1957, he formally set forth the first cognitive behavior therapy by proposing that therapists help people adjust their thinking and behavior as the treatment for emotional and behavioral problems. Two years later, Ellis published \"How to Live with a Neurotic\", which elaborated on his new method. In 1960, Ellis presented a paper on his new approach at the American Psychological Association (APA) convention in Chicago. There was mild interest, but few recognized that the paradigm set forth would become the zeitgeist within a generation. At that time, the prevailing interest in experimental psychology was behaviorism, while in clinical psychology it was the psychoanalytic schools of notables such as Freud, Jung, Adler, and Perls. Despite the fact that Ellis' approach emphasized cognitive, emotive, and behavioral methods, his strong cognitive emphasis provoked the psychotherapeutic establishment with the possible exception of the followers of Adler. Consequently, he was often received with significant hostility at professional conferences and in print. He regularly held seminars where he would bring a participant up on stage and treat them. His own therapeutical style was famed for often being delivered in a rough, confrontational style; however, it should not be confused with his rational-emotive and cognitive-behavioral therapy school that is practiced by his students and followers in a large variety of therapeutic styles (e.g., often depending on client's personality, client's clinical problem, and evidence-based information regarding the appropriate intervention, but also including therapist's own preference).\n\nDespite the relative slow adoption of his approach in the beginning, Ellis founded his own institute. The Institute for Rational Living was founded as a non-profit organization in 1959. By 1968, it was chartered by the New York State Board of Regents as a training institute and psychological clinic.\n\nEllis published his first major book on Rational emotive behavior therapy (REBT) in 1962. REBT is an active-directive, philosophically and empirically based psychotherapy, the aim of which is to resolve emotional and behavioral problems and disturbances and to help people to lead happier and more fulfilling lives. REBT is seen as the first form of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).\n\nIn 1979 and during the next two decades Ellis focuses part of his research on behavioral integrity through applied experimental psychology, focusing on reliability, honesty and loyalty as psychosocial behavior. Organizational commitment as a cognitive norm, evaluating concretely through images developed in his Institute.\n\nIn his book \"Personality Theories\" developed with Mike Abrams and Lidia Dengelegi Abrams establish the opinions of evaluation of integrity understanding the reason of each personality can have a change in their attitude, reliability is the common factor of their samples taken and of the which great advances were obtained to look for a tool to work with the human mind.\n\nBy the 1960s, Ellis had come to be seen as one of the founders of the American sexual revolution. Especially in his earlier career, he was well known for his work as a sexologist and for his liberal humanistic, and in some camps controversial opinions on human sexuality. He also worked with noted zoologist and sex researcher Alfred Kinsey and explored in a number of books and articles the topic of human sexuality and love. Sex and love relations were his professional interests even from the beginning of his career. Norman Haire, in his preface to Ellis' 1952 book \"Sex Beliefs and Customs\", applauded the work of the Society for the Prevention of Venereal Disease while he ridiculed its rival, the National Council for Combating Venereal Disease, who argued that preventive measures such as condoms would encourage vice: Haire called them \"the Society for the Prevention of the Prevention of Venereal Disease\".\n\nIn 1958, Ellis published his classic work \"Sex Without Guilt\" which came to be known for its advocacy of a liberal attitude towards sex. He contributed to Paul Krassner's magazine \"The Realist\"; among its articles, in 1964 he wrote \"if this be heresy... Is pornography harmful to children?\" In 1965, Ellis published a book entitled \"Homosexuality: Its Causes and Cure\", which partly saw homosexuality as a pathology and therefore a condition to be cured. In 1973, the American Psychiatric Association reversed its position on homosexuality by declaring that it was not a mental disorder and thus not properly subject to cure, and in 1976, Ellis clarified his earlier views in \"Sex and the Liberated Man\", expounding that some homosexual disturbed behaviors may be subject to treatment but, in most cases, that should not be attempted as homosexuality is not inherently good or evil, except from a religious viewpoint (See \"Ellis and religion\", below). Near the end of his life, he finally updated and re-wrote \"Sex Without Guilt\" in 2001 and released as \"Sex Without Guilt in the Twenty-First Century\". In this book, he expounded and enhanced his humanistic view on sexual ethics and morality and dedicated a chapter on homosexuality to giving homosexuals advice and suggestion on how to more greatly enjoy and enhance their sexual love lives. While preserving some of the ideas about human sexuality from the original, the revision described his later humanistic opinions and ethical ideals as they had evolved in his academic work and practice.\n\nIn his original version of his book \"Sex Without Guilt\", Ellis expressed the opinion that religious restrictions on sexual expression are often needless and harmful to emotional health. He also famously debated religious psychologists, including Orval Hobart Mowrer and Allen Bergin, over the proposition that religion often contributed to psychological distress. Because of his forthright espousal of a nontheistic humanism, he was recognized in 1971 as Humanist of the Year by the American Humanist Association. By 2003, he was one of the signers of the Humanist Manifesto. Ellis most recently described himself as a probabilistic atheist, meaning that while he acknowledged that he could not be completely certain there is no god, he believed the probability a god exists was so small that it was not worth his or anyone else's attention.\n\nWhile Ellis' personal atheism and humanism remained consistent, his views about the role of religion in mental health changed over time. In early comments delivered at conventions and at his institute in New York City, Ellis overtly and often with characteristically acerbic delivery stated that devout religious beliefs and practices were harmful to mental health. In \"The Case Against Religiosity\", a 1980 pamphlet published by his New York institute, he offered an idiosyncratic definition of religiosity as any devout, dogmatic and demanding belief. He noted that religious codes and religious individuals often manifest religiosity, but added that devout, demanding religiosity is also obvious among many orthodox psychotherapists and psychoanalysts, devout political believers and aggressive atheists.\n\nEllis was careful to state that REBT was independent of his atheism, noting that many skilled REBT practitioners are religious, including some who are ordained ministers. In his later days, he significantly toned down his opposition to religion. While Ellis maintained his firm atheistic stance, proposing that thoughtful, probabilistic atheism was likely the most emotionally healthy approach to life, he acknowledged and agreed with survey evidence suggesting that belief in a loving God can also be psychologically healthy. Based on this later approach to religion, he reformulated his professional and personal view in one of his last books \"The Road to Tolerance\", and he also co-authored a book, \"Counseling and Psychotherapy with Religious Persons: A Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy Approach,\" with two religious psychologists, Stevan Lars Nielsen and W. Brad Johnson, describing principles for integrating religious material and beliefs with REBT during treatment of religious clients.\n\nEllis was a lifelong advocate for peace and an opponent of militarism.\n\nWhile many of his ideas were criticized during the 1950s and '60s by the psychotherapeutic establishment, his reputation grew immensely in the subsequent decades. From the 1960s on, his prominence was steadily growing as the cognitive behavioral therapies (CBT) were gaining further theoretical and scientific ground. From then, CBT gradually became one of the most popular systems of psychotherapy in many countries, mainly due to the large body of rigorously conducted research that underpinned the work of the cognitive therapy school (a key part of the CBT family) founded by Aaron T. Beck. In the late 1960s, his institute launched a professional journal, and in the early 70s established \"The Living School\" for children between 6 and 13. The school provided a curriculum that incorporated the principles of RE(B)T. Despite its relative short life, interest groups generally expressed satisfaction with its programmer. Many schools of psychological thought became influenced by Albert Ellis, including Rational Behavior Therapy created by a student of his, Maxie Clarence Maultsby, Jr.. Ellis had such an impact that in a 1982 survey, American and Canadian clinical psychologists and counsellors ranked him ahead of Freud when asked to name the figure who had exerted the average influence on their field. Also in 1982, in an analysis of psychology journals published in the US it was found that Ellis was the most cited author after 1957. In 1985, the APA presented Dr. Ellis with its award for \"distinguished professional contributions\".\n\nHe held many important positions in many professional societies including the Division of Consulting Psychology of the APA, Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality, American Association of Marital and Family Therapy, the American Academy of Psychotherapists and the American Association of Sex Educators, Counsellors, and Therapists. In addition Ellis also served as consulting or associate editor of many scientific journals. Many professional societies gave Ellis their highest professional and clinical awards.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, he renamed his psychotherapy and behavior change system rational emotive behavior therapy (REBT). (It was originally known as rational therapy and then rational-emotive therapy.) This he did to stress the interrelated importance of cognition, emotion and behaviour in his therapeutic approach. In 1994, he also updated and revised his original, 1962 classic book, \"Reason and Emotion in Psychotherapy\". During the remainder of his life, he continued developing the theory that cognition, emotion and behaviour are intertwined, and that a system for psychotherapy and behaviour change must involve all three.\n\nEllis's work extended into areas other than psychology, including education, politics, business and philosophy. He eventually became a prominent and confrontational social commenter and public speaker on a wide array of issues. During his career he publicly debated a vast number of people who represented opposing views to his; this included for example debates with psychologist Nathaniel Branden on Objectivism and psychiatrist Thomas Szasz on the topic of mental illness. On numerous occasions he critiqued opposing psychotherapeutic approaches, and questioned some of the doctrines in certain dogmatic religious systems, i.e.:spiritualism and mysticism.\n\nFrom 1965 until the end of his life he led his famous Friday Night Workshops, in which he conducted therapy sessions with volunteers from the audience. The 1970s found him introducing his popular \"rational humorous songs\" which combined humorous lyrics with a rational self-help message set to a popular tune. Ellis also held workshops and seminars on mental health and psychotherapy all over the world until his 90s.\n\nUntil he fell ill at the age of 92 in 2006, Ellis typically worked at least 16 hours a day, writing books in longhand on legal tablets, visiting with clients, and teaching. On his 90th birthday in 2003, he received congratulatory messages from well-known public figures such as then-President George W. Bush, New York senators Charles Schumer and Hillary Clinton, former President Bill Clinton, New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, and the Dalai Lama, who sent a silk scarf blessed for the occasion. In 2004, Ellis was taken ill with serious intestinal problems, which led to hospitalization and the removal of his large intestine. He returned to work after a few months of supportive care.\n\nIn 2005, he was removed from all professional duties and from the board of his own institute after a dispute over the management policies of the institute. Ellis was reinstated to the board in January 2006 after winning civil proceedings against the board members who removed him. On June 6, 2007, lawyers acting for Albert Ellis filed a suit against the Albert Ellis Institute in New York state court. The suit alleges a breach of a long-term contract with the AEI and sought recovery of the 45 East 65th Street property through the imposition of a constructive trust.\n\nDespite his series of health issues and profound hearing loss, Ellis never stopped working with the assistance of his wife, Australian psychologist Debbie Joffe Ellis. In April 2006, Ellis was hospitalized with pneumonia, and spent more than a year shuttling between hospital and a rehabilitation facility. He eventually returned to his residence on the top floor of the Albert Ellis Institute where he died on July 24, 2007 in his wife's arms. Ellis had authored and co-authored more than 80 books and 1200 articles (including eight hundred scientific papers) during his lifetime. He died aged 93.\n\nDuring his final years he worked on his only college textbook with longtime collaborator Mike Abrams with whom he co-authored 3 books along with several research articles and chapters, including the textbook \"Personality Theories: Critical Perspectives\". Ellis' penultimate book was an autobiography entitled \"All Out!\" published by Prometheus Books in June 2010. The book was dedicated to and included contributions by his wife, Dr Debbie Joffe Ellis, to whom he entrusted the legacy of REBT. In early 2011, the book \"Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy\" by Albert and Debbie Joffe Ellis was released by the American Psychological Association. The book explains the essentials of the theory of REBT for students and practitioners of psychology as well as for the general public.\n\nIn eulogy of Albert Ellis, APA past president Frank Farley states:Psychology has had only of a handful of legendary figures who not only command attention across much of the discipline but also receive high recognition from the public for their work. Albert Ellis was such a figure, known inside and outside of psychology for his astounding originality, his provocative ideas, and his provocative personality. He bestrode the practice of psychotherapy like a colossus…In the opening ceremony of the 2013 American Psychological Association Convention, Ellis was posthumously awarded the APA Award For Outstanding Lifetime Contributions to Psychology. It highlights the profound and historic role played in the life and evolution of the fields of psychology and psychotherapy.\n\nFellow psychologists often criticized Ellis for his weak tone and for not offering any evidence to back his views on psychotherapy. In his obituary in the British newspaper \"The Guardian\", it was noted that others, such as Aaron T. Beck, had conducted more rigorous testing than what Ellis was willing to undertake and were able to better advance cognitive therapy. His approach to treatment of severe depression was also criticized as suggesting simplistic things like \"pull your socks up.\"\n\n\"The Road To Tolerance\" (Prometheus Books, 2004) explains the philosophies underlying REBT - particularly an attitude of tolerance - and relates it to many religious, philosophical and social movements.\n\nMost of the books Ellis wrote after inventing REBT had a strong autobiographical element. He used anecdotes from his personal life to explain how the insights of REBT occurred to him and how they helped him cope with personal problems such as shyness, anger and chronic illness. He also used anecdotes from client sessions to illustrate how his therapy worked. Two of Ellis last books were explicitly autobiographical. \"Rational-Emotive Behavior Therapy: It Works for Me -- It Can Work for You\" (Prometheus Books, 2004) recounts his early life and crises in an unusually candid way. It illustrates the way he handled his problems, at first through philosophy, and later through the application of his emerging therapeutic skills and insights. \"All Out!: An Autobiography\" (Prometheus Books, 2009) —published after his death—is a more traditional narrative of his life and work (though it also meant to be an inspirational story of the use of rational thinking in self-help).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44633637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44633637", "title": "Australian Bibliographic Network", "text": "Australian Bibliographic Network\n\nAustralian Bibliographic Network is a national shared library cataloguing network that commenced in 1981 in Australia.\n\nThe National Library of Australia began investigating the potential for a national shared cataloguing network in the 1970s. In August 1978, following a feasibility study, the library announced a pilot project. The Australian Bibliographic Network (ABN) commenced operations in November 1981.\n\nThe ABN system was as a multi-sector network, including university, state, public and special libraries. Services to school libraries were provided under a separate national service, the Schools Catalogue Information Service (SCIS), first developed in 1984 as ASCIS.\n\nVarious state library systems joined the network within the next few years \n\nThe first ABN conference was conducted in 1983 \n\nThe National Library of Australia established an advisory body, the \"ABN Network Committee\" (now \"Libraries Australia Advisory Committee\") to advise the Library on the operation and development of the service.\n\nThe database for the service is known as the \"Australian National Bibliographic Database\" (ANBD).\n\nThe database is still an essential element of the Australian national library networks, and the largest database in Australia of its kind \n\nTraining for the network, and the subject catalogue of the network underwent a range of changes in the 1980s. The ABN Standards Committee met for the first time on 14 May 1981. The issues dealt with in the first four meetings included:\n\nOnce established a range of guidelines and publications ensued \n\nFrom 1981 to 1999 this service was called the Australian Bibliographic Network (ABN) and from 1999 to 2005 the name changed to Kinetica. Elements of the network still exist, but the main public access is by the Trove website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28930857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28930857", "title": "Boris Fenster", "text": "Boris Fenster\n\nBoris Fenster (17 April 1916 – 29 December 1960) was a Russian dancer, choreographer and ballet master.\n\nFenster was born in Petrograd. He attended the Leningrad Ballet School and graduated in 1936. Fenster then joined the Maly Theatre Ballet and served as head choreographer from 1945-53. After leaving that post he joined the Kirov Ballet, becoming the artistic director in 1956. Fenster remained at the Kirov until his death. He died at the premiere of his ballet \"Maskerade\".\n\n"}
{"id": "52752810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52752810", "title": "Carmo Planetarium", "text": "Carmo Planetarium\n\nCarmo Planetarium () is a planetarium in Parque do Carmo, eastern São Paulo, Brazil. It is part of the Open University of the Environment and Culture of Peace (UMAPAZ), and opened on 30 November 2005. It is one of three planetaria in São Paulo, the others being Professor Aristóteles Orsini Planetarium and the Johannes Kepler Planetarium at Sabina Escola Parque do Conhecimento.\n\nThe building has a projection dome that is high and diameter, with 230 reclining seats, and projection by a Carl Zeiss AG Universarium VIII, which uses 9,000 optical fibres and 109 lenses to portray the night sky. There is also a 70-seat classroom, reading space, and a lobby with exhibitions. Two telescopes are located on a terrace behind the planetarium. The planetarium building cost R$11 million to construct, and the projector cost R$5 million to purchase.\n\nThe planetarium is located at 137 John Speers Street. Several bus routes pass near to the planetarium. It hosts pre-booked school visits on weekdays, and is open to the public on weekends and some weekdays during school holidays.\n\nThe planetarium closed in 2007 due to structural problems arising from infiltration, and fungi was discovered on the lens of the projector in 2010. The observation area reopened in 2012, before closing again in January 2013 due to a water leak. The planetarium reopened on 8 May 2016, after repairs costing R$1.2 million. It reopened with revised management, and a branch of the astrophysics school (which is primarily located at the other planetarium in São Paulo).\n"}
{"id": "7414536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7414536", "title": "Chris Gainor", "text": "Chris Gainor\n\nChris Gainor is a historian of technology specializing in space exploration and aeronautics. He has written five books on the history of space exploration and on the Avro Canada CF-105 Arrow, a jet interceptor aircraft canceled by the Canadian government in 1959.\n\nGainor is currently writing a history of the Hubble Space Telescope as part of a contract with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.\n\nIn July 2018, Gainor became President of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada. He is also editor of Quarterly, and is a fellow of the British Interplanetary Society.\n\nGainor holds a Ph.D. in the history of technology from the University of Alberta, and has worked as a history instructor in the University of Victoria's history department and as an Assistant Professor for the Royal Military College of Canada.\n\nEarlier in his career, Gainor worked as a reporter for the Vancouver Sun, where he won a National Newspaper Award for a series on Canadian cancer activist Terry Fox. He also has worked and written for several other publications, and worked for governmental and non-governmental organizations.\n\nHis first book, \"Arrows to the Moon,\" tells the story of the 32 British and Canadian aerospace engineers who went to work for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in 1959 after losing their jobs when the Canadian government cancelled the Avro Arrow. Many of these engineers went on to hold top positions in NASA, including Jim Chamberlin, John Hodge, Owen Maynard, and Tecwyn Roberts. He returned to the history of the Avro Arrow with his book \"Who Killed the Avro Arrow?\"\n\nGainor's more recent academic work has concentrated on the history of missile and space programs in the first years after World War II, including his book \"To A Distant Day: The Rocket Pioneers\" and \"The Bomb and America's Missile Age,\" which discusses how the U.S. Air Force decided to build its first intercontinental ballistic missile, the Atlas missile. He has also written about the history of the Canadian space program, including his book \"Canada in Space.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "423362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=423362", "title": "Citation index", "text": "Citation index\n\nA citation index is a kind of bibliographic index, an index of citations between publications, allowing the user to easily establish which later documents cite which earlier documents. A form of citation index is first found in 12th-century Hebrew religious literature. Legal citation indexes are found in the 18th century and were made popular by citators such as Shepard's Citations (1873). In 1960, Eugene Garfield's Institute for Scientific Information (ISI) introduced the first citation index for papers published in academic journals, first the \"Science Citation Index\" (SCI), and later the \"Social Sciences Citation Index\" (SSCI) and the \"Arts and Humanities Citation Index\" (AHCI). The first automated citation indexing was done by CiteSeer in 1997. Other sources for such data include Google Scholar and Elsevier's Scopus.\n\nThe earliest known citation index is an index of biblical citations in rabbinic literature, the \"Mafteah ha-Derashot\", attributed to Maimonides and probably dating to the 12th century. It is organized alphabetically by biblical phrase. Later biblical citation indexes are in the order of the canonical text. These citation indices were used both for general and for legal study. The Talmudic citation index \"En Mishpat\" (1714) even included a symbol to indicate whether a Talmudic decision had been overridden, just as in the 19th-century \"Shepard's Citations\". Unlike modern scholarly citation indexes, only references to one work, the Bible, were indexed.\n\nIn English legal literature, volumes of judicial reports included lists of cases cited in that volume starting with \"Raymond's Reports\" (1743) and followed by \"Douglas's Reports\" (1783). Simon Greenleaf (1821) published an alphabetical list of cases with notes on later decisions affecting the precedential authority of the original decision.\n\nThe first true citation index dates to the 1860 publication of Labatt's \"Table of Cases...California...\", followed in 1872 by Wait's \"Table of Cases...New York...\". But the most important and best-known citation index came with the 1873 publication of Shepard's Citations.\n\nGeneral-purpose, subscription-based academic citation indexes include:\nEach of these offer an index of citations between publications and a mechanism to establish which documents cite which other documents. They are not open-access and differ widely in cost: Web of Science and Scopus are available by subscription (generally to libraries).\n\nIn addition, CiteSeer and Google Scholar are freely available online. \n\nSeveral open-access, subject-specific citation indexing services also exist, such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "32462978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32462978", "title": "Comboni College of Science &amp; Technology", "text": "Comboni College of Science &amp; Technology\n\nComboni College for Science and Technology (CCST), originally Comboni College for Computer Science, is a private college in Khartoum, Sudan established since 2001.\n\nComboni College Khartoum was founded in 1930 by the Italian Verona Fathers. The boys school had an international intake, but was primarily for Sudanese children. The followers of Comboni founded a Religious Institute made up of Priests and consecrated Brothers who arrived in Sudan to continue Comboni´s work whom education became their main commitment in the country. In 1929 they founded a school called Comboni College Khartoum (CCK). \nIn 1999, some parents of the primary section of Comboni College Khartoum asked the Comboni Priests and Brothers to develop a post-secondary section. That initiative then gave place in 2001 to Comboni College of Science and Technology (CCST) as a separate institution from the Primary and the Secondary sections of Comboni College Khartoum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3825086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3825086", "title": "Education in Colombia", "text": "Education in Colombia\n\nEducation in Colombia includes nursery school, elementary school, high school, technical instruction and university education.\n\nMost of the children over one year old are provided with daycare and nursery school in \"Hogares Comunitarios\" (community homes) sponsored by the National Institute for Family Welfare (ICBF acronym in Spanish), where mothers from the community take care of their own children, as well as the children from the immediate neighborhood. When children of Colombia learn how to read and write, they are usually transferred to the elementary school. There are also a large number of private kindergarten facilities.\n\nElementary school comprises 5 years of formal education. Children usually enroll into grade 1, at age five. The net primary enrollment (percentage of relevant age-group) attending elementary school (primaria) in 2001 totaled 89.5 percent. In some rural areas, teachers are poorly qualified and drop rates are high. In urban areas, on the other hand, teachers are generally well prepared and knowledgeable of their profession. \n\nColombia developed the method of teaching known as Escuela Nueva or “New School.” The method transforms the conventional learning paradigm where the teacher is the only one talking and conveying information in a classroom. The idea is that students are placed in the center of the learning process in rural communities. Decades after the model was first developed in 1975, Escuela Nueva has received support — including financial — from the Colombian government, Unesco, and The World Bank, and was implemented into a national educational policy in Colombia in the late 1980s. By 1988, Unesco declared that Colombia was the only country in Latin America and the Caribbean where rural schools outperformed urban schools because of the Escuela Nueva method. Between 2007 and 2009, the program taught 700,000 children in Colombia, and the model is now implemented in 20,000 schools across the country. Escuela Nueva has now expanded internationally to 17 countries, including Brazil, the Philippines and India, benefiting more than five million children.\n\nSecondary and fourth education is divided in basic secondary (grades 6 to 9) and mid secondary (grades 10 and 11). The mid-secondary education (usually beginning at the age of 15 or 16) offers many different \"tracks\", which all lead to their own \"Bachiller\" after a curriculum of two years. Out of the usual academic curriculum (Bachillerato Académico), the students can follow one of the following technical tracks(Bachillerato en Tecnología o Aplicado): Industrial track (Bachillerato Industrial), Commercial track (Bachillerato Comercial), Pedagogical Track (Bachillerato Pedagógico), Agricultural Track (Bachillerato Agropecuario), social promotion track (Bachillerato de Promoción Social).\n\nThe \"Bachiller\" is required to continue into academic or professional higher Education. Nonetheless, technical and professional institutions of higher Education can also welcome students with a \"qualification in Arts and business\". This qualification is granted by the SENA after a two years curriculum.\n\nUniversity education is divided into under-graduate degrees and post-graduate degrees and is regulated by the 30th law of 1992. Most of the university degrees are 5 years long. Technical formation usually lasts 3 years. Post-graduate education includes specializations, masters and PhD programs.\n\nEducation for Employment and Human Development is regulated by law 1064 of 2006 and the 2888 decree of 2007. It provides a degree of technical education: skills and talents to improve the level of subsistence. Education for employment involves technical skills for work through the formation of \"labor competences\", which is a Colombian strategy to standardize and certify human resource, expanding and diversify the formation and training of human resources. It includes the education provided by the enterprises to their employees. The Colombian government promotes this kind of education as an alternative to university education, which is not accessible for the majority. Some institutions that provide this services are SENA (national service of learning), CESDE, ANDAP, and INCAP among others.\n\nTwo issues are identified among the main challenges of the public education in the country. On the one hand, 55% of children attending rural schools drop out before concluding their studies. Rural education represents 80% of the educational offer, with many isolated schools and some of them lacking electric energy. A high rate of rural illiteracy is observed (average urban rate was 5,4% and rural 18,6%). On the other hand, the quality of education is a great concern. According to the OECD, the result from the PISA’s test for Colombia in 2006 in Mathematics is below the ones obtained by 61 countries and similar to the countries that obtained the three lowest results. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "48600284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48600284", "title": "Faculty of Political Sciences at Sakarya University", "text": "Faculty of Political Sciences at Sakarya University\n\nThe Faculty of Political Sciences at Sakarya University (, also known as SAU SBF) is one of the sixteen faculties that comprise Sakarya University. Originally established as Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences in 1992, it was named as the Faculty of Political Sciences by decree no. 28988 on 2 May 2014.\nThe faculty spans a range of \"discipline areas\" and includes Political Science and Public Administration, International Relations, Economics, Labor Economics and Industrial Relations, Public Finance, and Financial Econometrics. The SAU SBF has more than 80 full-time faculty and more than 40 research assistants.\n\nThe Faculty of Political Sciences at Sakarya University was originally established as Faculty of Economic and Administrative Sciences by decree no. 3837 on 11 July 1992.\n\nDuring 1993-1996, Sabahattin Zaim (1926-2007) served as the first and founding dean of the faculty. As an active member of religious-conservative Society to Disseminate Science (Ilim Yayma Cemiyeti), Zaim put his stamp on the faculty. Some academics served in the faculty during Zaim's period would become the leading figures of conservative/Islamic parties in Turkey. Although it is believed that Zaim invited Abdullah Gül, the 11th President of Turkey, to the faculty, official documents of Sakarya University proves it wrong. Gül actually served in Sakarya University between 1977 and 1983, long before the establishment of the faculty. Although Gül was assistant of Sabahattin Zaim, it seems that he has never been in the Faculty of Economic and Administrative Sciences. On the other hand, Zaim's another assistant Sami Güçlü took an active role in the development of the faculty. Güçlü would be the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Affairs in religious-conservative Justice and Development Party government. However, Zaim's influence on the faculty ended after 1997 Turkish military memorandum in Turkey and many professors, who were close to Zaim, left from the faculty.\n\nThe current building of the faculty was constructed in 1998 but it was devastatingly affected by the 1999 İzmit earthquake. One of its staff, Seydi Önder, lost his life during earthquake. Although the faculty moved to prefabs for a while, consecutive earthquakes interrupted education. During the winter semester of 1999-2000 academic year, the faculty suspended its education. The faculty restarted its regular education on 28 February 2000.\n\nWhen Faculty of Economic and Administrative Sciences inaugurated its education in 1992, it was hosting two departments, Economics, and Management. The department of Labor Economics and Industrial Relations, the department of Public Administration (later Political Science and Public Administration), and the department of International Relations were established between 1994 and 1996. While the department of Public Finance was established in 2002, the department of Financial Econometrics inaugurated its education in 2008. In November 2010, three departments, Management, Tourism Management, and Human Resources Management left from the faculty and they were transferred to the newly established Faculty of Management. Under the SAU SBF, the existing departments are as the followings:\n\n\nThe SAU SBF hosted a variety of research centers but some of them were either closed or restructured as institutes. For example, the Center for Middle Eastern Studies was established by the faculty's professors but later it was restructured as an institute under the name Sakarya University Middle East Institute. The SAU SBF currently hosts three research centers.\n\n\nSabahattin Zaim, 1992-1996\n\nBilal Eryılmaz, 1996-1999\n\nİsmail Dalay, 2000-2003\n\nEngin Yıldırım, 2003-2010\n\nSalih Şimşek, 2010-2014\n\nKemal Inat, 2014-2014\n\nİbrahim Erol Kozak, a professor of law\n\nEngin Yıldırım, the Vice-President of Constitutional Court of Turkey\n\nÖmer İnan, vice-rector of Istanbul Sabahattin Zaim University\n\nÖmer Anayurt, the Chairperson of the Higher Education Supervisory Board in Turkey\n\nSami Güçlü, former Minister of Agriculture and Rural Affairs\n\nDavut Dursun, former executive of Radio and Television Supreme Council\n\nBurhanettin Duran, the general director of the Foundation for Political, Economic and Social Research\n\nBilal Eryilmaz, former chair of Council of Ethics for Public Officials in Turkey\n"}
{"id": "10014156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10014156", "title": "Global Development and Environment Institute", "text": "Global Development and Environment Institute\n\nThe Global Development And Environment Institute (GDAE, pronounced “gee-day”) is a research center at Tufts University founded in 1993. GDAE works to promote a better understanding of how societies can pursue their economic and community goals in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner. GDAE pursues its mission through original research, policy work, publication projects, curriculum development, conferences and other activities\nNeva Goodwin and William Moomaw are co-directors of GDAE. The \"Theory and Education\" program, headed by Jonathan Harris is developing an economic theory that aims to better serve human needs and address ecological issues. The program explores alternatives to the standard economic paradigm, using new theories and producing educational material. The \"Research and Policy\" program, led by Timothy Wise, carries out applied research on the effects of economic policies using an analytical framework that assesses the limitations of market-mechanisms for addressing social and environmental issues. Research priorities include globalization, food policy, Foreign Direct Investment, energy and climate change, recycling and materials use, and sustainable economic integration.\n\nGDAE researchers emphasize ecological health and the correlation between social and economic well-being. They view economic systems in physical contexts of technology and the natural world, as well as in the social/psychological contexts of history, politics, ethics, culture, institutions, and human motivations.\nBetween 1995 and 2001 GDAE produced the six-volume series, \"Frontier Issues in Economic Thought\", which was published by Island Press. The articles that GDAE researchers selected and summarized for this project focus on the limitations of the mainstream economic paradigm and a wide range of creative efforts that have been and are being made to extend economic understanding.\n\nGDAE is in the process of distributing an electronic collection of publications for free to universities in 138 nations, with special attention to those institutions that are most in need of library resources. The collection, or the Social Science Library (SSL), contains over 3,400 full-text journal articles, book chapters, reports, and working papers in anthropology, economics, history, philosophy, social psychology, sociology and political science. It also includes full bibliographic references (including abstracts) to more than 6,000 additional articles. The SSL is being distributed to these countries with the assistance of various partner organizations. For people who are not in the recipient countries, a web-based version, with the 10,000+ bibliographic entries, but without the full text PDFs, can be accessed.\n\nIn 2000, GDAE established the Leontief Prize. Named in honor Wassily Leontief, Nobel laureate and member of the GDAE advisory board, the annual award recognizes outstanding contributions to economic theory that address contemporary realities and support just and sustainable societies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "529717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=529717", "title": "Goddard College", "text": "Goddard College\n\nGoddard College is a low-residency college with three locations in the United States: Plainfield, Vermont; Port Townsend, Washington; and Seattle, Washington. The college offers undergraduate and graduate degree programs. With predecessor institutions dating to 1863, Goddard College was founded in 1938 as an experimental and non-traditional educational institution based on the ideas of John Dewey: that experience and education are intricately linked.\n\nGoddard College operates on an intensive low-residency model. Each student designs his or her own curriculum and the college uses a student self-directed, mentored system in which faculty issue narrative evaluations of student's progress instead of grades. The intensive low-residency model requires students to come to campus every six months for approximately eight days when students engage in a variety of activities and lectures from early morning until late in the evening and create detailed study plans. During the semester, students study independently, sending in \"packets\" to their faculty mentors every few weeks. When low-residency education began at Goddard, packets were actual packets of paper sent via the mail, but with the advancement of the internet, most packets are sent electronically and may contain artwork, audio files, photography, video and web pages in addition to writing. The schedule and format of these packets differ from program to program, and content varies with each student-faculty correspondence, but almost always focuses on research, writing, and reflection related to each student's individualized study plan.\n\nGoddard offers a Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA), Master of Arts (MA), Master of Fine Arts (MFA), along with several concentrations and Licensures. It enrolls approximately 700 students, 30% of whom are undergraduates. It employs 110 faculty and 90 staff.\n\nGoddard College began in 1863 in Barre, Vermont, as the Green Mountain Central Institute. In 1870, it was renamed as Goddard Seminary in honor of Thomas A. Goddard (1811-1868) and his wife Mary (1816-1889). Goddard was a prominent merchant in Boston, and was one of the school's earliest and most generous benefactors. Founded by Universalists, Goddard Seminary was a four-year preparatory high school, primarily for Tufts College. For many years the Seminary prospered. But the opening of many good public high schools in the 20th century made many of the New England academies obsolete. To attempt a rescue, the trustees added a Junior College to the Seminary in 1935, with a Seminary graduate, Royce S. \"Tim\" Pitkin, as President.\n\nRoyce S. \"Tim\" Pitkin was a progressive educator and follower of John Dewey, William Heard Kilpatrick and other, similar proponents of educational democracy. In 1936, under his leadership, the Seminary concluded that in order for Goddard to survive, an entirely new institution would need to be created. A number of prominent educators and laymen agreed with him. Pitkin was supported by Stanley C. Wilson, ex-governor of Vermont and chairman of the Goddard Seminary Board of Trustees; Senators George Aiken and Ralph Flanders and Dorothy Canfield Fisher. Pitkin was able to persuade the Board of Trustees to embrace a new style of education, one that substituted individual attention, democracy, and informality for the traditionally austere and autocratic educational model. On March 13, 1938, Goddard College was chartered. In July 1938 the newly formed Goddard College moved to Greatwood Farm in Plainfield, Vermont.\n\nThe new Goddard was an experimental and progressive college. For its first 21 years of operation, Goddard was unaccredited and small, but built a reputation as one of the most innovative colleges in the country. Especially noted were Goddard's use of discussion as the basic method in classroom teaching; its emphasis on the whole lives of students in determining personal curricula; its incorporation of practical work into the life of every student; and its development of the college as a self-governing learning community in which everyone had a voice. In 1959 Goddard College was accredited. As of 2015 it is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges.\n\nOne of the founding principles upon which Goddard was founded was that the College should provide educational opportunities for adults. It became clear that there was a great need for a program through which adults who had not completed college could obtain degrees without disrupting their family lives or careers. The Adult Degree Program (ADP), created by Evalyn Bates, was established in 1963. It was the first low-residency adult education program in the country.\n\nOver the years many experimental programs were designed at Goddard. These programs included the Goddard Experimental Program for Further Education, Design Build Program, Goddard Cambridge Program for Social Change, Third World Studies Program, Institute for Social Ecology, Single Parent Program and many others.\n\nHaving narrative transcripts instead of traditional letter grades, as well as learner-designed curricula, Goddard was one of the founding members of the Union for Experimenting Colleges and Universities, which also included Franconia, Nasson, Antioch, and others.\n\nIn 2002, after 54 years, the college terminated its traditional age residential undergraduate degree program and became an exclusively low-residency college. Three years later, the college expanded to the West Coast and established a residency site in Port Townsend, Washington. In July 2011 Goddard began to offer their education program (non-licensure only) in Seattle, Washington.\n\nIn 2014, the graduating class of the college's undergraduate program selected convicted murderer and Goddard alumnus Mumia Abu-Jamal as commencement speaker. Abu-Jamal, who had attended Goddard as an undergraduate in the 1970s, completed his Goddard degree from prison via mail while serving his sentence for the 1982 murder of Philadelphia police officer Daniel Faulkner. The decision to invite Abu-Jamal to speak was criticized by Faulkner's widow, US Senator Pat Toomey, the Vermont Troopers Association, the Vermont Police Chiefs Association, the Fraternal Order of Police, and the Pennsylvania Department of Corrections. The college's interim President, Bob Kenny, supported the right of students to select a commencement speaker of their choosing. On October 5, the school released his commencement speech. The pre-recorded speech did not mention Mumia's murder conviction.\n\nThe campus in Plainfield was founded in 1938 on the grounds of a late 19th-century model farm: The Greatwood Farm & Estate consists of shingle style buildings and gardens designed by Arthur Shurcliff. The Village of Learning, consisting of eleven dormitory buildings, was constructed adjacent to the ensemble of renovated farm buildings in 1963 to accommodate an increasing student population. The Pratt Center & Library, sited to be at the heart of a larger campus, was constructed in 1968. No other significant new construction has been added to the campus since that time. On March 7, 1996 the Greatwood campus was recognized for its historic and architectural significance with its inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nA US Army post from 1902 to 1953, much of the fort has been renovated and turned into a year-round, multi-use facility dedicated to lifelong learning which houses several organizations that comprise Fort Worden State Park. The fort sits on a bluff overlooking the Strait of Juan de Fuca and Admiralty Inlet near Port Townsend, Washington.\n\nThe MA in Education program, originally held in the Plainfield-based low-residency program, expanded into Columbia City, one of Seattle's most ethnically and racially diverse neighborhoods, in 2011.\n\nThe program is unique in that it trains students in bilingual preschool education. Students can focus on such areas as intercultural studies, dual language, early childhood, cultural arts, and community education, and then create their plan of studies for each semester. The program is also different in that it is designed to serve students who cannot leave their families and communities for the residency. The “community campus” is housed in different buildings in the area.\n\nThe Eliot D. Pratt Center and Library, located in Plainfield, Vermont serves the entire Goddard College community, and is open to the public. Its holdings contain over 70,000 physical items and access to over 20 electronic databases. The building also houses several administrative offices, an Archives room with artifacts from the 1800s to present, an Art Gallery, and WGDR (91.1 FM), a college/community radio station serving Central Vermont since 1973.\n\nGoddard is home to Goddard College Community Radio, a community-based, non-commercial, listener-supported educational radio station with nearly 70 volunteer programmers who live and work in central and northern Vermont and who range in age from 12 to 78 years. WGDR, 91.1 FM, is licensed to Plainfield, Vermont. Its sister station, WGDH, 91.7 FM, is licensed to Hardwick, Vermont. Goddard College Community Radio is the largest non-commercial community radio station in Vermont and is the only non-commercial station in the state other than the statewide Vermont Public Radio network that receives funding from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.\n\nThe Haybarn Theatre was built in 1868 by the Martin Family and was one of the largest barns in Central Vermont. The Haybarn was originally used to store hay, grain and livestock. In 1938 when Goddard College purchased Greatwood Farm they began the process of turning the farm buildings into academic and student spaces. The Haybarn was renovated in order to provide a space for the performing arts.\n\nFor almost 75 years the Haybarn Theatre has been a place where the local community and the College come together to enjoy and appreciate the arts. This long tradition continues to this day as the Haybarn hosts educational conferences, student and community performances and the ongoing Goddard College Concert Series.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22204995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22204995", "title": "Goulstonian Lecture", "text": "Goulstonian Lecture\n\nThe Goulstonian Lectures are an annual lecture series given on behalf of the Royal College of Physicians in London. They began in 1639. The lectures are named for Theodore Goulston (or Gulston, died 1632), who founded them with a bequest. By his will, dated 26 April 1632, he left £200 to the College of Physicians of London to found a lectureship, to be held in each year by one of the four youngest doctors of the college. These lectures were annually delivered from 1639, and have continued for more than three centuries. Up to the end of the 19th century, the spelling \"Gulstonian\" was often used. In many cases the lectures have been published.\n\nGulston's widow bequeathed the annual donation to the College of Physicians for them to arrange for one of the four youngest doctors to \"read the lecture on some dead body (if it could be procured), to be dissected as the President and Elects should think necessary for the diseases to be treated of ; the lecture to be read yearly, between Christmas and Easter, on three days together ; and the reader to treat of three or more diseases, as the seniors of the College should direct ; ten pounds to be paid to the doctor who should read, and two pounds to the dissector and for burying the body\".\n"}
{"id": "58578555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58578555", "title": "Guy Montrose Whipple", "text": "Guy Montrose Whipple\n\nGuy Montrose Whipple (June 12, 1876 – August 1, 1941) was an American educational psychologist known for developing psychological tests of human intelligence and personality. His other research interests included gifted education, literacy, vocational education, and the psychology of eyewitness testimony. A 1997 article about giftedness described Whipple as \"an all-but-forgotten pioneer in this field\". \n\nWhipple was born on June 12, 1876 in Danvers, Massachusetts, to John Francis Whipple and Cornelia Eliza Whipple (née Hood). He received his A.B. degree from Brown University in 1897. He then worked at Clark University for a year before joining Cornell University in 1898, where he worked as an assistant in psychology until 1902. He received his Ph.D. from Cornell in 1900 under the supervision of Edward B. Titchener, who gained a negative impression of Whipple's interest in psychology during this time. He went on to join the faculty of the University of Illinois in 1914 before joining the University of Michigan, where he was Professor of Experimental Education from 1919 to 1925.\n\nWhipple was a founding member of the advisory committee for the Division of Applied Psychology at the Carnegie Institute of Technology (now known as Carnegie Mellon University), as well as one of four founding editors of the \"Journal of Educational Psychology\". He also served alongside Lewis Terman as a member of the American Psychological Association's Committee on the Psychological Examination of Recruits, which helped to develop the Army Alpha and Beta tests used on American soldiers during World War I. He was the editor of elementary school textbooks for D. C. Heath and Company from 1928 to 1937. \n"}
{"id": "4189701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4189701", "title": "Jack Baskin School of Engineering", "text": "Jack Baskin School of Engineering\n\nThe Jack Baskin School of Engineering is the school of engineering at the University of California, Santa Cruz. The school trains students in seven departments: Applied Mathematics & Statistics, Biomolecular Engineering, Computational Media, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and Technology Management. The school of engineering was formed in 1997 and endowed through a multimillion-dollar gift from retired local engineer and developer Jack Baskin.\n\nBaskin Engineering offers undergraduate degree programs in:\n\n\nBaskin Engineering offers MS and PhD programs in these disciplines.\n\n\nIn Fall 2016, the undergraduate students of Baskin School of Engineering were made up of 1.6% of African American/Black students, 33.4% of Asian students, 19.7% of Hispanic/Latino Students, .2% of Pacific Islander/Native Hawaiian students, 28.5% of White students, and 8.3% of students who identified as two or more ethnic identities. In addition, out of the 4,073 total undergraduate students affiliated with the Baskin School of Engineering, 3,164 (78%) were men and 865 (21%) were women.\n\nFall 2017 Undergraduate Major Count: 4,234\n\nIn Fall 2016, the graduate students of Baskin School of Engineering were made up of .2% African American/Black students, 6.4% of Asian students, 4.4% of Hispanic or Latino students, 26.6% of White students, and 3.7% of students who identified as two or more ethnic identities. In addition, out of the 590 total graduate students affiliated with the Baskin School of Engineering, 438 (74%) were men and 143 (24%) were women.\n\nFall 2017 Graduate Major Count: 619\n\n\n\n\nBaskin Engineering conducts classes, career training, and professional development programs at the Silicon Valley Center, located in the NASA Ames Research Center at Moffett Field in Mountain View, California. Tracks include product management, technology and commerce, data mining, reliability engineering, advanced device engineering, and network engineering.\n\nThe 212-seat Baskin Engineering Auditorium and Engineering 2 building, a space, were completed for occupancy in the summer of 2004. The Physical Sciences Building provided additional space for biomolecular engineering programs and groundbreaking for a new Biomedical Sciences Building in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24767051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24767051", "title": "Jeanne Clemson", "text": "Jeanne Clemson\n\nJeanne Clemson (1922 – September 12, 2009) was an American artistic director, theater director, actress, educator and preservationist. Clemson was considered instrumental in the efforts to save the Fulton Opera House, located in downtown Lancaster, Pennsylvania, from demolition during the 1950s and 1960s. She is also credited with restoring live theater productions to the Fulton.\n\nThe Fulton Opera House is now a National Historic Landmark, designated in 1964.\n\nClemson was born Jeanne Hershberger in 1922 in Bedford County, Pennsylvania to parents, Fred L. and Olive Bussard Hershberger. She was raised in Everett, Pennsylvania.\n\nShe received her bachelor's degree in drama, with a minor in applied music, from Penn State University. She also obtained her teaching certification from Penn State. Clemson further earned her master's degree from the School of Speech at Northwestern University on a scholarship.\n\nShe met her future husband, Charles R. Clemson, during her freshman year at Penn State University. The couple married in 1945. They had two children, Cheryl Jeanne and John Alfred.\n\nClemson began her career by teaching music at the National Cathedral School in Washington D.C. The family next relocated to Western Pennsylvania before permanently moving to Lancaster, Pennsylvania, during the mid-1950s.\n\nClemson, who was a fan of theater, quickly became involved in the local Lancaster theater community and appeared at the Green Room Theatre, which was affiliated with Franklin and Marshall College. Until Clemson joined, the Green Room Theatre had been a male-only theater school. Local theater companies launched one or two theater productions a year at the time.\n\nIn the late 1950s, local activists, including Clemson, began to work for the preservation of the Fulton Opera House, a Lancaster Victorian structure constructed in 1870. The Fulton Opera House was in danger of demolition at the time. Clemson and others advocated not just preserving the Fulton Opera House, but also restoring it into a full-time theater again.\n\nEfforts to save the Fulton Opera House and stage productions began to pay off. The 1959 production of \"Our Town\", starring Jeanne Clemson, marked that first time that a live theater production had been staged at the Fulton Opera House in thirty years. In 1964, the Fulton Opera House was added to the list of National Historic Landmarks and further placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1969. Much of the credit in preserving the opera house went to Clemson. In a 2009 interview with the \"Intelligencer Journal\", Rob Brock, head of the Lancaster Hole-in-the-Wall Puppet Theatre, noted, \"I think there is a very good chance the Fulton would not be here without her involvement.\"\n\nIn 1968, Jeanne Clemson and Emily Pat Hoffman founded the Actors Company of Pennsylvania. The Actors Company grew considerable over the next three decades, further fueling local theater in Lancaster and other parts of Pennsylvania. The company expanded the local audience for local theater, as well as the pool of actors and other talent. Clemson, who served as the company's artistic director until 1996, carried out many of the tasks needed for the Actors Company's productions, including local casting, directing and costume design. Clemson's establishment of the Actors Company is also credited with laying the foundation for the establishment of other theater companies within Lancaster County, including the Ephrata Performing Arts Center, Theater of the Seventh Sister and the Independent Eye.\n\nClemson negotiated and oversaw the merger of the Actors Company of Pennsylvania and the Fulton Theatre Company in 1996. Following the merger, she continued to work with the Fulton Academy, which worked to introduce children to theater and acting. She remained on the Fulton Opera House's board of directors until her death in 2009.\n\nAdditionally, Clemson taught and headed the drama department at Lancaster Country Day School. She joined the faculty of Lancaster Country Day in 1962, and remained at the school for 29 years, until her retirement from the school in 1991.\n\nJeanne Clemson died from Parkinson's disease on September 12, 2009, at the Homestead Village retirement community in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, at the age of 87. Her husband, Charles Clemson, died in 2006 after 61 years of marriage.\n\nA memorial service was held for Clemson on September 27, 2009, at the Unitarian Universalist Church, followed by a reception at the Fulton Opera House, the Lancaster landmark in which she is credited with preserving.\n\n"}
{"id": "1097370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1097370", "title": "Julius B. Richmond", "text": "Julius B. Richmond\n\nJulius Benjamin Richmond (September 26, 1916 – July 27, 2008) was an American pediatrician and public health administrator. He was a vice admiral in the United States Public Health Service Commissioned Corps and served as the United States Surgeon General and the United States Assistant Secretary for Health during the Carter Administration, from 1977 to 1981. Richmond is noted for his role in the creation of the Head Start program for disadvantaged children, serving as its first national director.\n\nRichmond was born in Chicago He was educated during the Great Depression, earning his B.S. at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, followed by an M.S. in physiology and his M.D. from the University of Illinois College of Medicine in 1939. After completing an 18-month rotating internship at Cook County Hospital in Chicago, Richmond entered two pediatrics residencies, the first at Chicago's Municipal Contagious Disease Hospital (1941–1942) and the second at Cook. The United States’ entry into World War II interrupted Richmond's postgraduate training, as he volunteered and was inducted into the Army Air Corps in February 1942. Through 1946 Richmond worked as a flight surgeon with the Air Force's Flying Training Command.\n\nAfter demobilization, Richmond completed his residency and began what would be a distinguished academic career in which public service was an integral part of scholarly research. He began as a professor in Pediatrics at his alma mater (1946–53) and a Markle Foundation scholar in medical science (1948–53), and was active both in nonprofit children's welfare organizations and Chicago's Institute for Psychoanalysis. During 1953 he moved to the State University of New York at Syracuse College of Medicine (now known as the Upstate Medical Center). The Supreme Court's decision in Brown v. Board of Education (1954) inspired Richmond and his colleague, Betty Caldwell, to turn their interdisciplinary research, integrating elements of psychiatry into pediatrics, toward policy ends as they documented how poverty threatened the psychosocial development of young children. They focused on cognitive abilities developed during a child's first years, where functional deficits linked to poverty, for example, those caused by malnutrition, could make learning more difficult and as a result, put the children of the poor at risk of failing both at school and later on, in attempts to advance economically.\n\nRichmond's work at Syracuse caught the eye of Sargent Shriver, head of the Kennedy Foundation. After President Lyndon B. Johnson tapped Shriver to head a new independent agency, the Office of Economic Opportunity (OEO) (1964), Shriver convinced Richmond to take a leave of absence and join him. At OEO Richmond would use a demonstration grants mechanism to create two important new public health programs that incorporated OEO's mandate to aid local groups directly, rather than channeling resources through state health departments, the traditional partners of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare's Public Health Service. During 1965, Richmond implemented Project Head Start, an enrichment program for disadvantaged pre-school age children that was greeted eagerly by community groups. Building on health-related proposals submitted in response to Head Start, in 1966 Richmond sponsored a series of Neighborhood Health Centers that united economic development and local oversight of, and participation in, health services delivery.\n\nIn 1967, Richmond left OEO to return to Syracuse, to serve as Dean of the medical faculty. During 1971 he moved to Harvard Medical School, where he held professorships in two departments, Child Psychiatry and Human Development (1971–73) and Preventive & Social Medicine (1971–79), directed the Judge Baker Guidance Center in Boston (1971–77), a nonprofit mental health organization that works with Boston's juvenile courts, and also served as Chief of Psychiatry at the Children's Hospital Boston.\n\nNearly a decade later after Richmond stepped down from OEO, former OEO official Joseph Califano, now President Jimmy Carter’s Secretary of DHEW, asked him to return to Federal service as Assistant Secretary for Health (July 1977). Richmond accepted, on condition that his position as Assistant Secretary, with its line authority over PHS, be combined with that of Surgeon General, widely recognized as a spokesperson for public health. Califano obliged with a December 1977 inhouse reorganization that boosted and streamlined PHS's management capabilities through its Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health (OASH).\n\nRichmond brought a commitment to access and equity that reflected his earlier work implementing President Johnson's Great Society. In national health affairs, however, the latter half of the 1970s was a period of retrenchment and effort to curb health-related expenditures. Economic downturns challenged the country's willingness to support a continued expansion of health care programs and after 1974, the removal of wage and price controls on health care providers meant dramatic cost increases for the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Many believed that controls were a necessary prerequisite to any form of national health insurance, and the type of controls became a point of contention, for example, with the Congress opposing the Carter Administration's decision to focus on hospital expenditures.\n\nDespite the times, Richmond's neighborhood health centers remained, championed by Congress and reinforced by an assortment of PHS programs to improve access to care. Transferred to PHS jurisdiction in the early 1970s, neighborhood health centers were renamed Community Health Centers, authorized under 1975 legislation, scaled down and revamped to focus on rural (1975) and urban (1977) areas, spread thin to include new constituencies like residents of Appalachia and migrant workers and those served by PHS's National Health Service Corps. During Richmond's tenure, Congress would pass the Health Services and Centers Act of 1978 (PL95-626), which reauthorized a broad array of public health services, community and migrant health centers, grants for primary care projects, and grants-in-aid to support public health programs and authorized $2.9 billion in expenditures. The health of children also remained a top priority. The Communicable Disease Center (CDC) carried out a successful immunization campaign that focused on measles and other childhood diseases that disproportionately affected the poor, meeting an initial goal of immunizing at least 90 percent of eligible children by October 1979. In addition, there were efforts to establish a Child Health Assurance Program to improve prevention by broadening eligibility for the existing Medicaid Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnosis and Treatment Program.\n\nAt PHS Richmond remains best known for his leadership in devising and implementing quantitative goals for public health, first published in 1979 as \"Healthy People: The Surgeon General’s Report on Health Promotion and Disease Prevention\". \"Healthy People\" moved PHS beyond its limited capabilities to lessen disparities in health services provision, to spur change by getting information out to journalists, health departments, and others about gains already made in reduced mortality from noninfectious causes. Richmond and Secretary Califano drew on the precedent of former Surgeon General Luther Terry's 1964 Report on Smoking and Health to build professional and public consensus toward making prevention key to PHS's efforts.\n\nA new Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (1979) under Assistant Surgeon General Michael McGinnis prepared the formal publication, setting forth ambitious health goals to be achieved by 1990, and the Institute of Medicine drafted an accompanying volume, \"Promoting Health/Preventing Disease: Objectives For The Nation\" (1980), which included a series of specific targets within set categories for each age-group. One of the major goals of this effort was to educate people on how they could take more personal responsibility for their health through wise lifestyle choices. Richmond's Healthy People campaign was a remarkable success, especially in light of the political firestorm in Congress and by the tobacco industry when Secretary Califano became an outspoken critic of cigarette smoking as a major contributor to preventable disease.\n\nAfter the Reagan Administration assumed power in January 1981, Richmond stepped down from his dual post and returned to academe.\n\nAt Harvard, Richmond would serve as a Professor of Health Policy (1981–1988) and as the John D. MacArthur Professor of Management and Director of the Division of Health Policy Research and Education (1987 onward) and as well chair the steering committee of the National Academy of Science’s Forum on the Future of Children and Families (NAS). From 1988 he was Emeritus at Harvard Medical School in the Department of Social Medicine (DSM), now the Department of Global Health and Social Medicine, which he had founded under HMS Dean Robert Ebert.\n\nRichmond died of cancer at age 91 at his home in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, near Boston, on July 27, 2008.\n\nA collection of his papers is held at the National Library of Medicine in Bethesda, Maryland. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1410310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1410310", "title": "Ken Carter", "text": "Ken Carter\n\nKenny Ray Carter (born February 13, 1959) is an American business owner, education activist and former high school basketball coach. Carter attended college at San Francisco State, then Contra Costa College, and finally George Fox University, where he played basketball. He was portrayed by Samuel L. Jackson in the 2005 film, \"Coach Carter\".\n\nComing from an abusive family, Carter was raised strictly on academics, but found a liking in sports. As a basketball coach, he maintained that his athletes must take their studies seriously, as good academic performance would give them access to college and other opportunities in life.\n\nThis belief was put to the test when, as a high school basketball coach at Richmond High School, he locked out his undefeated team for not honoring academic and behavioral contracts. While the community was outraged at first, public opinion eventually changed, and Carter was praised for his determined emphasis on prioritizing good values for his team. His approach also bore results: every one of his players at Richmond, where he coached from 1997 to 2002, graduated. The story of the 1999 season is the basis for the 2005 film \"Coach Carter\", with Carter played by Samuel L. Jackson.\n\nCarter continues to coach sports teams, except basketball. He coached the Slamball team Rumble. He led Rumble to their first-ever Slamball Cup victory in 2001/2002. Carter has said that the greatest moment in his life was when he carried the Olympic Torch for the 2002 Winter Olympics.\n\nCarter has a son named Damien (who played for his father at Richmond, and was portrayed by Robert Ri'chard in the movie) and currently resides in San Antonio, TX.\n\nIn the fall of 2005, Carter proposed opening a boarding school called the Coach Carter Impact Academy in the town of Marlin, Texas. The school never opened and by 2012, the project had been abandoned.\n\n"}
{"id": "24421659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24421659", "title": "Laboratory Safety Institute", "text": "Laboratory Safety Institute\n\nThe Laboratory Safety Institute (LSI) is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization based in the United States that supports safety in science education. \nFounded in 1978 by Dr. James Kaufman to provide safety training for secondary school science teachers, LSI has grown to become \"An International Center for Health, Safety and Environmental Affairs.\"\n\nLSI members are science educators and administrators as well as corporate hygiene officers, directors of environmental affairs, chemical handling and storage and waste management personnel.\n\nLSI publishes articles and newsletters regarding best practices in laboratory safety as well as safety manuals and teaching tools for teachers and laboratory managers.\n\n"}
{"id": "41721306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41721306", "title": "Lapland University of Applied Sciences", "text": "Lapland University of Applied Sciences\n\nKemi-Tornio University of Applied Sciences was established in 1992. Rovaniemi University of Applied Sciences was established in 1996. Together with the University of Lapland, they were and the new Lapland University of Applied Sciences is part of the Lapland University Consortium.\n\nKemi and Tornio are situated in the Finnish Lapland, close to the Swedish border on the Gulf of Bothnia and Rovaniemi is situated further north and inland close to the arctic circle.\n\n"}
{"id": "44991027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44991027", "title": "Leonard W. Hein", "text": "Leonard W. Hein\n\nLeonard William Hein (born February 17, 1916) is an American economist, accountant, accounting educator, and Emeritus Professor of Accounting at the Los Angeles State College, known for his work on the history of accountancy and the development of contemporary accounting thought.\n\nHein was born in Forest Park, Illinois to Harry Christian and Clara A. (Klein) Hein. He received his BSc magna cum laude at the Loyola University Chicago in 1952, and his PhD at the University of California, Los Angeles in 1954 with the thesis entitled \"The Impact of the British Companies Acts Upon the Major Areas of the Practice of Accountancy in the British Isles.\" In 1955 he obtained his Certified Public Accountant certificate in the state of Illinois.\n\nHein started his academic career as instructor at the DePaul University. He jointed the Los Angeles State College, now California State University, Los Angeles, in 1956. There he was promoted Assistant Professor of accounting in 1957, Associate Professor of Business Administration in 1959, and Professor of Accounting in the 1960s, which he stayed until his retirement in 1983.\n\nHein came into prominence with the 1959 publication of \"J. Lee Nicholson: pioneer cost accountant\" in the \"Accounting Review.\" In the next two decades Hein published four books on the development of contemporary accounting thought, electronic data processing, and the use of computers.\n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n"}
{"id": "14173724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14173724", "title": "Libraries in China", "text": "Libraries in China\n\nThe first libraries in China came into being during the time of the Shang dynasty (the sixteenth to eleventh centuries B.C.) as intellectuals known as the Shi (historians) and Wu (diviners) emerged from manual labor to special occupations for the creation and spread of culture. Among the documents that these occupations managed were \"the country's statute books, genealogies of imperial kinsmen, issued notices and orders, and recorded important events and natural phenomena. For future verification and reference, they built storehouses to keep records in different media. To meet the needs of more and more complicated affairs and to ensure easy use, they began to collect and sort out those records according to chronological order and category. Thus, the earliest library in China came into being. The numerous kinds of media loaded with information and knowledge emerged in human society, resulting in the concepts of preservation and collection. Accordingly, the earliest libraries and archives were the result of conscious collection, process, coalition, and utilization.\"\n\nEarly in the history of China, scholars had extensive private libraries, and all of the imperial dynasties constructed libraries and archives to house literary treasures and official records. The first modern libraries, however, did not appear in China until the late nineteenth century; even then, library service grew slowly and sporadically. In 1949 there were only fifty-five public libraries at the county level and above, most concentrated in major coastal commercial centers.\n\nFollowing the founding of the People's Republic, government and education leaders strove to develop library services and make them available throughout the country. The National Book Coordination Act of 1957 authorized the establishment of two national library centers, one in Beijing (National Library of China) and the other in Shanghai (Shanghai Library), and nine regional library networks. Even so, libraries still were scarce, and those facilities that were available were cramped and offered only rudimentary services. Seeing the lack of libraries as a major impediment to modernization efforts, government leaders in the early 1980s took special interest in the development of library services. The special concentration of funds and talent began to produce significant results. More than forty Chinese institutions of higher learning also had established library science or information science departments. There were more than 2,300 public libraries at the county level and above, containing nearly 256 million volumes, and below the county level some 53,000 cultural centers included a small library or reading room.\n\nAt the end of 2004, China had 2,710 public libraries with a collection of over 400 million copies. There were 2,925 public libraries in China in 2011. Of the university or college libraries, the collections of Peking University and Zhejiang University libraries lead the nation. The national library network also includes scientific research institution libraries, trade union libraries, plus libraries and reading rooms attached to government institutions, army units, primary and secondary schools, townships, enterprises and local communities.\n\nThe country's main library, the National Library of China, housed a rich collection of books, periodicals, newspapers, maps, prints, photographs, manuscripts, microforms, tape recordings, and inscriptions on bronze, stone, bones, and tortoiseshells.\n\nThe National Library of China, with a collection of over 26 million volumes, is the largest library in Asia, housing the largest collection of Chinese books in the world. In the library's collection are over 35,000 oracle bones and tortoise shells carved with ancient Chinese characters, 1.6 million volumes of traditional thread-bound books, over 16,000 volumes of documents from Dunhuang Grottoes, 12 million volumes of foreign-language books, and dozens of electronic databases.\n\nThe library started to accept the submissions of official national publications in 1916, becoming the main national database; and began to accept submissions of domestic electronic publications in 1987. It is also the country's ISSN (International Standard Serial Number) Center and Network Information Center. At present, the National Library of China has formed a digital library alliance with some 90 other libraries around the country, making joint efforts in promoting the development and application of China's digital public information service. The second phase of the National Library – China Digital Library, whose foundation was laid at the end of 2004, is planned to be completed and commissioned in October 2007. The expanded library will be able to meet book storage demand for the next 30 years. The Digital Library will make it the world's biggest Chinese literature collection center and digital resources base, as well as the most advanced network service base in China.\n\nThe Shanghai Municipal Library, one of the largest public libraries in the country, contained over 7 million volumes, nearly 1 million of which were in foreign languages. The Shanghai Library, well known at home and abroad, is China's largest provincial-level library. Of its collection, the over 1.7 million volumes of ancient documents are the most valuable and representative, including 25,000 titles of rare ancient books in 178,000 volumes, many being the only copies extant in the world. The oldest document dates back nearly 1,500 years.\n\nThe Peking University Library took over the collections of the Yanjing University Library in 1950 and by the mid-1980s – with more than 3 million volumes, one-fourth of them in foreign languages – was one of the best university libraries in the country. It is one of the earliest modern new libraries in China. Approved by the State Council as the first batch of national key ancient books protection unit, has developed into a resource rich, modern, comprehensive, open research library.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40955491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40955491", "title": "Lisle Snell", "text": "Lisle Snell\n\nLisle Denis Snell is a Norfolk Island politician, who from 20 March 2013 until 17 June 2015 was the final Chief Minister of Norfolk Island. He also served as Minister for Tourism. Both offices were abolished, along with the Legislative Assembly of Norfolk Island in 2015 by the Government of Australia.\n\nSnell is a Pitcairn descendant. In 2013 he stated he believed Norfolk Island could become Independent of Australia.\n\nBefore entering politics, Snell was a tour guide.\n"}
{"id": "47202696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47202696", "title": "List of libraries in Belize", "text": "List of libraries in Belize\n\nList of Libraries in Belize, Central America\nNational Library Service of Belize\nUniversity of Belize Librarys\nBelize Law Library of Congress\nSupreme Court Law Library \nBaron Bliss Institute, Belize City \nCoastal Zone Management Authority and Institute Research/Reference Library \n\nBelize ELibrary \nBelize Virtual Health Library\n\nSarteneja Public Library.\n"}
{"id": "12538891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12538891", "title": "Lists of institutions of higher education by endowment", "text": "Lists of institutions of higher education by endowment\n\nThe following are lists of institutions of higher education by endowment.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30528914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30528914", "title": "Lola Castegnaro", "text": "Lola Castegnaro\n\nLola Castegnaro (16 May 1900 – September 1979) was a Costa Rican conductor, composer and music educator. She was born in San José, Costa Rica, and studied music with her father, Italian-born composer Alvise Castegnaro. She continued her studies at the Verdi Conservatory in Milan and the Academia Filarmonica in Bologna. After completing her studies, she returned to Costa Rica in 1941 where she arranged for radio broadcasts of her work and conducted opera. She later moved to Mexico and took a teaching position at the Academia de Canto de Fanny Anitùa. She died in Mexico City.\n\nCastegnaro was noted for songs. Selected works include:\n"}
{"id": "54150901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54150901", "title": "MSC Student Conference on National Affairs", "text": "MSC Student Conference on National Affairs\n\nThe MSC Student Conference on National Affairs (MSC SCONA) is an annual conference where military and civilian students across Texas, the United States, and the world to exchange ideas and discuss the role of the United States in the global community.\n\nMSC SCONA was founded in 1955 by John Jenkins '56 and Bud Whitney '56, senior students in the Texas A&M University Corps of Cadets, after they had attended the 6th Student Conference on United States Affairs (SCUSA) at the United States Military Academy at West Point. Jenkins and Whitney sought to bring in students from across the South to a similar conference held at Texas A&M to allow those students to engage in an experience just as valuable as West Point's but closer to home. \n\nMSC SCONA 1's keynote speaker was United States Army Major General William J. Donovan, founder of the WWII-era Office of Strategic Services that later became the Central Intelligence Agency. The highest ranking military officer to speak at an MSC SCONA conference was in 2015 with then-Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff GEN Martin Dempsey, United States Army. The most prestigious civilian was then-Vice President of the United States Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas for SCONA 8. \n\nEvery year, MSC SCONA develops a relevant topic to guide discussions, anchor policy proposals, and provide inspiration for the conference speakers and facilitators. The approximately 150 delegates represent universities across the United States and commonly include all Federal Service Academies, the seven United States Senior Military Colleges, and top schools from across the Southeastern Conference, among other prestigious institutions. \n\nAlthough MSC SCONA once included delegates from local high schools as well as from as far away as Mexico and Canada, both practices have since been discontinued due to decreases of funding in the 1990s and a focus on a more rigorous standard of discussions. Since at least as far back as the time of SCONA Finance Chairman Henry Cisneros, later the Secretary of United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, members of the committee have traveled to major cities across Texas to raise private funds from businesses and individuals in order to operate the conference.\n\nThe conference is organized and run by a committee of Texas A&M University students. These students, many of them from the Texas A&M University Corps of Cadets and the Texas A&M Bush School of Government and Public Service, serve as delegates, roundtable hosts, and conference staff members as well as the executive leadership. MSC SCONA became racially integrated fully in 1961, several years before the University as a whole, and partially at the behest of a famous speaker, then-Vice President of the United States Lyndon B. Johnson.\n\nMSC SCONA has an enduring partnership with the now 70th Student Conference on U.S. Affairs (SCUSA) at the United States Military Academy at West Point as well as the now 55th Naval Academy Foreign Affairs Conference at the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. At SCONA 8, one of the roundtable facilitators was U.S. Army Colonel Rocco M. Paone, the founding director of NAFAC just a year before. Although professors from Texas A&M and other schools often serve as facilitators, only SCONA 36 on the future of European integration has received substantial scholarly notice.\n\nSince 2011, MSC SCONA has partnered with the United States Army War College to hold a pre-conference exercise called the International Strategic Crisis Negotiation Exercise (ISCNE). In previous years, this experience has focused on international conflicts like that of the Nagorno-Karabakh region (2018) and the island of Cyprus. This exercise is also held at approximately a dozen graduate schools of government and public service nationwide. MSC SCONA remains the only student-led and organized version of the ISCNE program. \n\nThe Texas A&M Bush School of Government and Public Service and MSC SCONA have a long standing relationship beyond student leadership to include speakers such as former Dean Amb. Ryan Crocker, speaking at SCONA 56 in 2011 and 61 in 2016. Amb. Napper, a Bush School professor, has also had a leading role in the ISCNE.\n\nIn 2017, United States Army officers and civilian staff modified the exercise, then renamed as the Domestic Crisis Strategic Response Exercise (DCSRE), in order to better complement SCONA 62's topic of homeland security. Speakers at the latest conference include Commandant of the United States Marine Corps General Robert Neller, Director of the National Security Agency Admiral Michael S. Rogers, USN, Director of Los Alamos National Laboratory Charles F. McMillan, and Islamic reformer Dr. Tawfik Hamid.\n\n"}
{"id": "50485538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50485538", "title": "Meister Cody", "text": "Meister Cody\n\nMeister Cody is an online training game with an integrated diagnostic screening test for children with dyscalculia and math weakness, the CODY Assessment. It was developed as a part of the CODY Project, a collaboration with psychologists and neuroscientists at the University of Münster, and technology experts at \"Kaasa health\" (an mHealth tech company based in Düsseldorf). The educational video game is used by parents, teachers and therapists as a diagnostic and therapeutic tool. The scientific research at the University of Münster drove the development of the computer-based training software.\n\nBefore the training begins, children take the CODY Assessment, a voluntary screening test that detects four dyscalculia relevant aspects: core markers (Dot Enumeration (DE), Magnitude Comparison (MCS, MCM)), number processing skills, calculation skills, and working memory.\nThe CODY training targets impaired number skills that could underlie dyscalculia. The focus lies on aspects of number and quantity processing, such as quantity-number-linkage, part-whole relationship, spatial ability, relational number perception, fact retrieval, subitizing, understanding of the positional notation system and transcoding. Training includes 19 different tasks. The first version of CODY training, which had four key tasks, was evaluated in a randomized controlled trial, and compared with a computer-based training of inductive reasoning. A meta-analysis by psychologists at the University of Münster about children with mathematical disorders showed: \"Computer-based interventions were also effective\". The math training is embedded in an adventure story and incorporates gamification via its reward system. Daily training (3–5 days per week) is recommended for maximum growth.\n\nThe main character of the educational game is Meister Cody, a traveler, storyteller, scholar and master magician. He receives a call for help through his crystal ball from the Kingdom of Talasia. He asks the game player to assist Princess Namea and Prince Fandales to save Talasia. The epic story has many characters, such as the Genie, Port Master, Oracle, Forest Fairies and Ice Fairies. These characters give the child clues, support and motivation.\n\nThe game is aimed at elementary school children from the second to fourth grade, but it also develops basic math skills that could benefit children in kindergarten. Meister Cody – Talasia is an adaptive single player game. Leveling occurs automatically with each of the 19 tasks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33643864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33643864", "title": "Mohini Jain v. State of Karnataka", "text": "Mohini Jain v. State of Karnataka\n\nMohini Jain v. State of Karnataka, a 1989 Supreme Court of India case, occurred when the Government of Karnataka issued a notification that permitted the private medical colleges in the State of Karnataka to charge exorbitant tuition fees from the students admitted other than the 'Government seat quota'. Miss Mohini Jain, a medical aspirant student filed a petition in Supreme Court challenging this notification. The apex Court raised an important question that 'whether right to education is guaranteed to the Indian citizen under the Constitution of India?'\n\nThe Supreme Court of India observed that mention of 'life and personal liberty' in Article 21 of the Constitution automatically implies some other rights, those are necessary for the full development of the personality, though they are not enumerated in Part III of the Constitution. Education is one such factor responsible for overall development of an individual and therefore, right to education is integrated in Article 21 of the Constitution.\n\nMiss Mohini Jain, a resident of Meerut (in the State of UP), applied for admission to the MBBS course in the session commencing February/March, 1991, to a private medical college located in the State of Karnataka. The college management asked her to deposit a sum of Rs. 60,000/- as the tuition fee for the first year and also to show a bank guarantee of the amount equal to the fee for the remaining years. When Miss Jain's father intimated the management that the asked amount was beyond his reach, the management denied Ms. Jain's admission to the medical college. Miss Jain informed the court that the management demanded an additional amount of Rs. four and a half lakhs, however, the management denied the allegation (?).\n\nAs per the notification, the denial of admission of Miss Jain due to her failure to submit the yearly tuition fee of Rs. 60,000/- was a valid step taken by the college management. In this situation, Miss Jain filed a petition (Writ petition (Civil) No. 456 of 1991) under Article 32 (1) (\"The right to move the Supreme Court by appropriate proceedings for the enforcement of the rights conferred by this Part (Part III: Fundamental Rights) is guaranteed\") of the Constitution of India challenging the notification issued by the Government of Karnataka.\n\nA two-member bench consisting Justice Kuldip Singh and Justice R. M. Sahai gave the judgment of the case on 30 July 1992 (1992 AIR 1858). For the first time in the post independent India, right to education of the Indian citizens and the State obligation to secure the right came under scrutiny at the premises of the apex court. It is important to note that this was the time when neo-liberal economic policy were knocking at the door of India.\n\nIt is relevant to know in this context that what was the notification issued by the Government of Karnataka. The Government of Karnataka issued a notification dated 5 June 1989 under section 5(1) of the Karnataka Educational Institutions (Prohibition of capitation fee) Act, 1984, which fixed the tuition and other fees to be charged from the students by the private medical colleges in the state. As per the notification, the tuition fee for the candidates admitted against:\n\n1. \"Government seat\" was Rs. 2,000 per year, \n\n2. For the students from Karnataka but not falling under \"Government seat\" was not to be exceeding Rs. 25,000/- per year, and\n\n3. For the Indian students not residing in Karnataka was not to be exceeding Rs. 60,000/- per year.\n\nFirst respondent was the State of Karnataka. The second (the intervener) and the third respondent were the Karnataka Private Medical Colleges Association and the private medical college respectively. According to the third respondent, the private medical college, those students who were admitted under \"Government seat quota\" were meritorious and those who were admitted under the \"Management quota\" (other than \"Government seat\") were not meritorious; the classification was valid and hence, in such situation, the college-management had the right to charge more fee from non-meritorious students to meet the expenses in order to provide medical education to the students.\n\nAccording to the intervener, Karnataka Private Medical Colleges Association, the private medical colleges in the state of Karnataka received no financial aid either from the State or Central Government. The expenditure per student for 5-year MBBS course in private medical colleges was about 5 lakhs and forty percent of the seats were filled by the \"Government Quota\" under which students paid only Rs. 2,000/- per year, therefore, students admitted under \"Management quota\" had to share the burden. Hence, the tuition fee was not excessive and there was no question of profit making by the private medical colleges in the State of Karnataka.\n\nMoreover, both the intervener and the third respondent mentioned that there were no provision either in the constitution of India or under any other law which prevented the charging of capitation fee.\n\nIn the lieu of above situation several crucial questions appeared before the court. Now, the court had to answer the following major questions:\n\na) Was there a 'right to education' guaranteed to the people of India under the Constitution?\n\nb) If the right is guaranteed to the people then, does applying capitation fee violate the guaranteed right to education?\n\nc) Whether charging capitation fee in educational institutions is arbitrary, unjust, unfair and violated Article 14 (\"The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India\" ) of the constitution?\n\nThe court said that the dignity of human can not be violated under any situation and it is the responsibility of the state to respect and protect the dignity of her citizens. An individual cannot be assured human dignity unless his/her personality is developed and the only way to do that is to educate the individual. When the Constitution was framed (the Constitution was adopted in 1950), 70 percent of the citizens of the country were illiterate. The framers of the constitution hoped to achieve 100 percent literacy within a time period of 10 years. Guided by this hope, Article 41 (\"The State shall, within the limits of its economic capacity and development, make effective provision for securing the right to work, to education and to public assistance in cases of unemployment, old age, sickness and disablement, and in other cases of underserved want\") and Article 45 (\"The State shall endeavour to provide, within a period of ten years from the commencement of this Constitution, for free and compulsory education for all children until they complete the age of fourteen years\") were included in the Chapter IV of the constitution.\n\nThe court referred to the various provisions in the Constitution of India and reminded that the 'Preamble' has promised to secure to all citizens of India \"Justice, social, economic and political\", \"Liberty of thought, expression, belief, faith, and worship\". It further provided \"Equality of status and of opportunity\" and assured dignity of the individual. The objectives flowing from the 'Preamble' cannot be achieved and shall remain on paper unless the people in this country were educated.\n\nThe Court said that although 'right to education' had not been guaranteed as a fundamental right under Part III of the constitution, the Articles 21 (in Part III of the Constitution of India), Article 38, 39(a), (f), 41 and 45 (in Part IV of the Constitution of India) together makes it clear that the framers of the constitution made it obligatory for the State to provide education for its citizens. Article 21 says \"No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law\". The right to life under Article 21 and the dignity of an individual cannot be assured unless it is accompanied by right to education. Therefore, every citizen had a 'right to education' under the constitution and thus, the state had an obligation to provide educational institutions at all levels for the benefit of all the citizens. All educational institutions whether it was state owned or state recognized were obliged to secure the 'right to education'.\n\nIn Part IV, the directive principles of the state policy, the Constitution asks the State to secure social order and minimize inequalities for the promotion of welfare of citizens (Article 38). Article 39 of Part IV talks about directing the state policies to secure adequate means of livelihood of citizen and offer opportunities to children to facilitate their healthy al-round development. Reality of the fundamental rights under chapter III will not be realized by illiterate citizens unless \"right to education\" under Article 41 was ensured to the individual citizen. Therefore, \"right to education\" was concomitant to the fundamental rights provided under Part III of the constitution.\n\nThe fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the constitution of India including the right to freedom of speech and expression and other rights under Article 19 cannot be appreciated and fully enjoyed unless a citizen is educated and is conscious of his individual dignity. Education is instrumental to reduce the inequality, and ensuring adequate livelihood. Illiterate people is vulnerable to exploitation. Without education the vision expressed in the said articles of the Constitution can not be realized. The court said that the 'Directive Principles', which were fundamental in the governance of the country, cannot be isolated from the fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III. They were supplementary to each other and have to be read into the fundamental rights.\n\nCharging capitation fee limits the access to the education only to the richer section of the people. Poorer person with better merit can not get admission due to inability to pay money and as a consequence in educational institution a citizen's 'right to education' gets denied. Further, allowing charging capitation fee violates Article 14 of the constitution of India. The only method of admission to the medical colleges should be by merit and merit alone. The court further stated that the capitation fee was simply a price for selling education. The concept of \"teaching shops\" was not at par with the constitutional scheme and was entirely opposing character to the Indian culture and heritage.\n\nCourt made one significant remark in stating that if government recognises or approve a professional institution to run a professional course, it is State responsibility to ensure that the Institute should charge the government rates only and right to education is preserved.\n\nThe judgment is historic in its own accord. The judgment of the Supreme Court has huge significance in a context of state's failure to maintain the endeavor set by article 45 of the Constitution even after 40 years of independence. However, the judgment of the court resulted mixed reaction. While, some critic the court's judgment as impractical and court's role as unnecessarily proactive, others welcomed the court's decision as logical and response to the call of hour. Others noted the judgment as the expression of judicial activism due to the fact that only a two judge bench made a substantial change in constitution.\n\nMohini Jain judgment of the Supreme Court was appeared at a time when liberalisation as a government policy was searching Indian soil to sprout. Commercialisation of education was not as rampant as it is now. In the recent trend of liberalization and privatization, the scourge of commercialization of education looms large. It is a challenge to keep the conformity with the socialist structure of Constitution and the judgment is in the line of retaining the conformity.\n\nThe most notable part of the judgment was its insistence that the right to education be read as an integral part of the right to life guaranteed under Article 21, Part III. The decision of the Court that the fulfillment of the right to life requires a life of dignity and therefore, must be interpreted to include both the economic and social rights. Education is as basic as to ensure rights to food, water, and health. But, question arise whether right to education at all level is essential for citizens for living a descent life? Whether right to education should be limited to only right to primary and basic education? Whether, declaring right to education at higher education level actually increase status quo and unequal distribution of resources results in collapsing the entire education system in India? According to some critic, the private educational institutions do not get any government grants and therefore should not be interpreted under the purview of article 12 of the Constitution of India. Later Supreme court had to modify its judgment and limits the right to free and compulsory education up to 14 years of age.\n\nThe most important thing is, there was a traditional look towards Directive Principle as idealistic preaching of the constitution. This case, revisited the traditional ritualistic approach towards Directive Principles and provides a solid base of pragmatism.\n\nThe 86th Amendment of the Constitution, passed by Parliament in 2002, and which came into force on 1 April 2010, the same date as its enabling legislation (\"Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009\"), made the Right to Education a Fundamental Right.\n"}
{"id": "313297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=313297", "title": "Montessori education", "text": "Montessori education\n\nThe Montessori Method of education, developed by Maria Montessori, is a child-centered educational approach based on scientific observations of children. Montessori's method has been used for over 100 years in many parts of the world.\n\nThe Montessori method views the child as one who is naturally eager for knowledge and capable of initiating learning in a supportive, thoughtfully prepared learning environment. It attempts to develop children physically, socially, emotionally and cognitively.\n\nAlthough a range of practices exist under the name \"Montessori\", the Association Montessori Internationale (AMI) and the American Montessori Society (AMS) cite these elements as essential:\n\nFollowing her medical training, Maria Montessori began to develop her educational philosophy and methods in 1897, attending courses in pedagogy at the University of Rome and reading the educational theory of the previous two hundred years. While visiting an asylum, during her schooling with a teacher, she used her observations of mistreatment of the kids there, especially those with autism, to create her new form of education. In 1907, she opened her first classroom, the Casa dei Bambini, or Children's House, in a tenement building in Rome. From the beginning, Montessori based her work on her observations of children and experimentation with the environment, materials, and lessons available to them. She frequently referred to her work as \"scientific pedagogy\".\n\nIn 1901, Maria Montessori met Alice and Leopoldo Franchetti (Baroness & Baron) of Città di Castello. They found many matching points between their work. Maria Montessori was invited to hold her first course for teachers and to set up a \"Casa dei Bambini\" at Villa Montesca, the home of the Franchettis in Città di Castello. Maria Montessori decided to move to Città di Castello where she lived for 2 years and where she refined her methodology together with Alice Franchetti. In that period, she published her book in Città di Castello. The Franchetti Barons financed the publication of the book and the methodology had the name \"Method Franchetti-Montessori\". Alice Franchetti died in 1911 at the age of 37 years old.\n\nMontessori education had spread to the United States by 1912 and became widely known in educational and popular publications. However, conflict arose between Montessori and the American educational establishment. The 1914 critical booklet \"The Montessori System Examined,\" by influential education teacher William Heard Kilpatrick, limited the spread of her ideas, and they languished after 1914. Montessori education returned to the United States in 1960 and has since spread to thousands of schools there. Montessori continued to extend her work during her lifetime, developing a comprehensive model of psychological development from birth to age 24, as well as educational approaches for children ages 0 to 3, 3 to 6, and 6 to 12.\n\nMontessori education also spread throughout the world, including Southeast Asia and India, where Maria Montessori was interned during World War II.\n\nMontessori education is fundamentally a model of human development, and an educational approach based on that model. The model has two basic principles. First, children and developing adults engage in psychological self-construction by means of interaction with their environments. Second, children, especially under the age of six, have an innate path of psychological development. Based on her observations, Montessori believed that children who are at liberty to choose and act freely within an environment prepared according to her model would act spontaneously for optimal development.\n\nMontessori saw universal, innate characteristics in human psychology which her son and collaborator Mario Montessori identified as \"human tendencies\" in 1957. There is some debate about the exact list, but the following are clearly identified:\n\nIn the Montessori approach, these human tendencies are seen as driving behavior in every stage of development, and education should respond to and facilitate their expression.\n\nMontessori education involves free activity within a \"prepared environment\", meaning an educational environment tailored to basic human characteristics, to the specific characteristics of children at different ages, and to the individual personalities of each child. The function of the environment is to help and allow the child to develop independence in all areas according to his or her inner psychological directives. In addition to offering access to the Montessori materials appropriate to the age of the children, the environment should exhibit the following characteristics:\n\nMontessori observed four distinct periods, or \"planes\", in human development, extending from birth to 6 years, from 6 to 12, from 12 to 18, and from 18 to 24. She saw different characteristics, learning modes, and developmental imperatives active in each of these planes, and called for educational approaches specific to each period.\n\nThe first plane extends from birth to around six years of age. During this period, Montessori observed that the child undergoes striking physical and psychological development. The first-plane child is seen as a concrete, sensorial explorer and learner engaged in the developmental work of psychological self-construction and building functional independence. Montessori introduced several concepts to explain this work, including the absorbent mind, sensitive periods, and normalization.\n\nMontessori described the young child's behavior of effortlessly assimilating the sensorial stimuli of his or her environment, including information from the senses, language, culture, and the development of concepts with the term \"absorbent mind\". She believed that this is a power unique to the first plane, and that it fades as the child approached age six. Montessori also observed and discovered periods of special sensitivity to particular stimuli during this time which she called the \"sensitive periods\". In Montessori education, the classroom environment responds to these periods by making appropriate materials and activities available while the periods are active in each individual young child. She identified the following periods and their durations:\n\n\nFinally, Montessori observed in children from three to six years old a psychological state she termed \"normalization\". Normalization arises from concentration and focus on activity which serves the child's developmental needs, and is characterized by the ability to concentrate as well as \"spontaneous discipline, continuous and happy work, social sentiments of help and sympathy for others.\"\n\nThe second plane of development extends from around six years to twelve years old. During this period, Montessori observed physical and psychological changes in children, and developed a classroom environment, lessons, and materials, to respond to these new characteristics. Physically, she observed the loss of baby teeth and the lengthening of the legs and torso at the beginning of the plane, and a period of uniform growth following. Psychologically, she observed the \"herd instinct\", or the tendency to work and socialize in groups, as well as the powers of reason and imagination. Developmentally, she believed the work of the second plane child is the formation of intellectual independence, of moral sense, and of social organization.\n\nThe third plane of development extends from around twelve years to around eighteen years of age, encompassing the period of adolescence. Montessori characterized the third plane by the physical changes of puberty and adolescence, but also psychological changes. She emphasized the psychological instability and difficulties in concentration of this age, as well as the creative tendencies and the development of \"a sense of justice and a sense of personal dignity.\" She used the term \"valorization\" to describe the adolescents' drive for an externally derived evaluation of their worth. Developmentally, Montessori believed that the work of the third plane child is the construction of the adult self in society.\n\nThe fourth plane of development extends from around eighteen years to around twenty-four years old. Montessori wrote comparatively little about this period and did not develop an educational program for the age. She envisioned young adults prepared by their experiences in Montessori education at the lower levels ready to fully embrace the study of culture and the sciences in order to influence and lead civilization. She believed that economic independence in the form of work for money was critical for this age, and felt that an arbitrary limit to the number of years in university level study was unnecessary, as the study of culture could go on throughout a person's life.\n\nIn short, four core aspects of montessori school include, practical life, sensorial, math, and language arts. Some smaller aspects that could be integrated into montessori schools include geography, art, and gardening.\n\nAs Montessori developed her theory and practice, she came to believe that education had a role to play in the development of world peace. She felt that children allowed to develop according to their inner laws of development would give rise to a more peaceful and enduring civilization. From the 1930s to the end of her life, she gave a number of lectures and addresses on the subject saying in 1936,\n\nShe received a total of six nominations for the Nobel Peace Prize in a three-year period: 1949, 1950, and 1951.\n\nElementary Montessori peace curriculum starts with Five Great Lessons that give a big picture of the world and life. They are educational stories that also spark the imagination of the students. The Five Great Lessons are - The Beginning of the Universe and Earth, Life Comes to Earth, Human Come to Earth, How Writing Began, and How Numbers Began. It is important to not rush through them and give time for research in between. It is also important to share these lessons as early in the year as possible.\n\nMontessori classrooms for children under three fall into several categories, with a number of terms being used. A \"\", Italian for \"nest\", serves a small number of children from around two months to around fourteen months, or when the child is confidently walking. A \"Young Child Community\" serves a larger number of children from around one year to 2½ or 3 years old. Both environments emphasize materials and activities scaled to the children's size and abilities, opportunities to develop movement, and activities to develop independence. Development of independence in toileting is typically emphasized as well. Some schools also offer \"Parent-Infant\" classes, in which parents participate with their very young children.\n\nMontessori classrooms for children from 2½ or 3 to 6 years old are often called Children's Houses, after Montessori's first school, the Casa dei Bambini in Rome in 1906. This level is also called \"Primary\". A typical classroom serves 20 to 30 children in mixed-age groups, staffed by fully trained teachers and assistants. Classrooms are usually outfitted with child-sized tables and chairs arranged singly or in small clusters, with classroom materials on child-height shelves throughout the room. Activities are for the most part initially presented by the teacher, after which they may be chosen more or less freely by the children as interest dictates. Classroom materials usually include activities for engaging in practical skills such as pouring and spooning, washing up, scrubbing tables and sweeping. Also materials for the development of the senses, mathematical materials, language materials, music, art and cultural materials, including more science based activities like 'sink and float', Magnetic and Non magnetic and candle and air.\n\nActivities in Children's Houses are typically hands on, tactile materials to teach concepts. For example, to teach writing, students use sandpaper letters. These are letters created by cutting letters out of sandpaper and placing them on wooden blocks. The children then trace these letters with their fingers to learn the shape and sound of each letter. Another example is the use of bead chains to teach math concepts, specifically multiplication. Specifically for multiples of 10, there is one bead that represents one unit, a bar of ten beads put together that represents 1×10, then a flat shape created by fitting 10 of the bars together to represent 10×10, and a cube created by fitting 10 of the flats together to represent 10×10×10. These materials help build a concrete understanding of basic concepts upon which much is built in the later years.\n\nElementary school classrooms usually serve mixed-age 6- to 9-year-old and 9- to 12-year-old groupings; 6- to 12-year-old groups are also used. Lessons are typically presented to small groups of children, who are then free to follow up with independent work of their own as interest and personal responsibility dictate. Montessori educators give interdisciplinary lessons examining subjects ranging from biology and history to theology, which they refer to as \"great lessons.\" These are typically given near the beginning of the school term and provide the basis for learning throughout the year.\n\nLessons include work in language, mathematics, history, the sciences, the arts, etc. Student-directed explorations of resources outside the classroom are integral to the education. Montessori used the term \"cosmic education\" to indicate both the universal scope of lessons to be presented, and the idea that education should help children realize the human role in the interdependent functioning of the universe.\n\nMontessori education for this level is less well-developed than programs for younger children. Montessori did not establish a teacher training program or a detailed plan of education for adolescents during her lifetime. However, a number of schools have extended their programs for younger children to the middle school and high school levels. In addition, several Montessori organizations have developed teacher training or orientation courses and a loose consensus on the plan of study is emerging. Montessori wrote that, \"The essential reform of our plan from this point of view may be defined as follows: during the difficult time of adolescence it is helpful to leave the accustomed environment of the family in town and to go to quiet surroundings in the country, close to nature\".\n\nMany Montessori schools for adolescents 12–18 are set in rural locations.\n\nLillard (2017) reviews recent research on the outcomes of Montessori education. A 2006 study published in \"Science\" magazine found that \"when strictly implemented, Montessori education fosters social and academic skills that are equal or superior to those fostered by a pool of other types of schools.\" The study had a relatively small sample size and was severely criticized. Another study in the Milwaukee Public Schools found that children who had attended Montessori from ages 3–11 outperformed their high school classmates several years later on mathematics and science; another found that Montessori had some of the largest positive effects on achievement of all programs evaluated.\n\nSome studies have not found positive outcomes for children in Montessori classrooms, but this might be due to the implementation of Montessori. For example, a 2005 study in a Buffalo public Montessori magnet school \"...failed to support the hypothesis that enrollment in a Montessori school was associated with higher academic achievement.\" Explicitly comparing outcomes of Montessori classrooms in which children spent a lot of time with Montessori materials, less time with the Montessori materials, or no time at all with the materials (because they were in conventional classrooms), Lillard found the best outcomes for children in classic Montessori. Further research should take care to determine the fidelity of the program.\n\nThe review on evaluations of Montessori education studies, that was published in 2017, states that wide evidence exist that certain elements of the Montessori method (e.g. teaching early literacy through a phonic approach embedded in a rich language context, and providing a sensorial foundation for mathematics education) are effective. At the same time it was concluded that while some evidence exist that children may benefit cognitively and socially from Montessori education which sticks to original principles, it is less clear whether modern adapted forms of Montessori education are as effective.\n\nIn 1967, the US Patent Trademark Trial and Appeal Board ruled that \"the term 'Montessori' has a generic and/or descriptive significance.\" Therefore, in the United States and most other countries, the term can be used freely without giving any guarantee of how closely, if at all, a program applies Montessori's work. The ruling has led to \"tremendous variation in schools claiming to use Maria Montessori's methods.\"\n\nWith the development of mobile touchscreen devices, several Montessori activities were made into mobile apps for children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29357049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29357049", "title": "Namibian Maritime and Fisheries Institute", "text": "Namibian Maritime and Fisheries Institute\n\nThe Namibian Maritime and Fisheries Institute (NAMFI) is a tertiary educational institution situated in Walvis Bay, Namibia. It was established in 1996 by the Ministry of Fisheries and Marine Resources. NAMFI provides maritime and fisheries training in accordance with the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and builds capacity in the field of maritime and fisheries sectors in and around Namibia.\n\nNAMFI offers education in Navigation, Engineering and Safety. Students sit for an exam with the Directorate of Maritime Affairs (DMA) within the Ministry of Works and Transport. DMA is an IMO accredited authority and NAMFI is accredited by DMA. All training activities at NAMFI are in accordance with the STCW 78/95 convention as well the Namibian Merchant Shipping Act of 1951, particularly in the areas of education, training, and certification of Namibian seafarers.\n\nNAMFI includes vocational courses in its curriculum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2596483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2596483", "title": "National Dinosaur Museum", "text": "National Dinosaur Museum\n\nThe National Dinosaur Museum is Australia's largest permanent display of prehistoric specimens, located in Gold Creek Village near Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia. The museum's exhibition follows the evolution of life, with a particular focus on dinosaurs.\n\nWith an annual patronage of 100,000 visitors, the museum is one of the most popular attractions in the Australian Capital Territory. The gift shop stocks a range of natural history books, dinosaur replicas, toys, fossils, crystals, minerals and meteorites. \n\nEstablished in 1993, the museum has been steadily improved and updated since its conception. It offers earth science dinosaur oriented displays that keep up with most recent discoveries in the geological sciences. New directors have been appointed in September 2011 including local and international scientists and geologists. Major upgrades have \ntaken place in April and May 2012 with the addition of twelve animatronic dinosaurs as well as an extensive collection of life size models displayed both within and outside the museum.\nThe museum caters for guided tours for school groups of all ages by appointment, as well as hosting birthday parties, dance with dinosaurs events for young children, private parties, corporate functions and dinosaur sleep overs during school holiday periods. \nNew displays of Australian dinosaurs, earth sciences including meteorites, fluorescent mineral displays are planned for late 2012 and 2013.\n\nOpening hours are 10am to 5 pm seven days a week including public holidays, but are closed Christmas Day. After hours visits are available by appointment only .\n\n"}
{"id": "99125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99125", "title": "National trust", "text": "National trust\n\nA national trust is an organisation dedicated to preserving the cultural heritage of a particular geographic region. Although the focus of a national trust may vary by region, the principal role is to ensure the preservation of historically significant items, and to conserve areas of natural beauty. National trusts generally operate as private non-profit organizations. The first such trust organisation, The Trustees of Reservations, originated in 1890 as a regional group serving the state of Massachusetts, USA. The first national trust, the National Trust for Places of Historic Interest or Natural Beauty, was founded in England in 1895 and operates as a charitable organisation serving England, Wales and Northern Ireland (it is commonly known in the UK as the National Trust). Other national trusts have since been set up around the world.\n\nIn 2007 the International National Trusts Organisation (INTO) was established at a gathering in New Delhi, India, with a mandate to support collaboration and best practices among national trusts and similar associations. It has member organisations from over 50 countries.\n\nA partial list of national trusts and similar organizations:\n\n"}
{"id": "47777452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47777452", "title": "Noelle W. Arnold", "text": "Noelle W. Arnold\n\nNoelle W. Arnold, Ph.D. (sometimes listed as Noelle Witherspoon Arnold), is an Associate Dean, Associate Professor and the director of the EdD in Educational Administration program in the College of Education and Human Ecology at The Ohio State University. She is notable for being the first female African American president of the University Council for Educational Administration, an academic organization for those researching educational administration in North America.. A former administrator at the district and state level, she has served as a consultant for National Public Radio and throughout the United States advising districts in school improvement, culture and race mediation, STEM leadership for education and teaching and leading in urban and rural contexts.\n\nDr. Arnold has more than 40 publications and her articles have appeared in leading educational journals, including the Teachers College Record, International Journal of Leadership in Education, Journal of Negro Education, International Journal of Educational Reform and the Journal of Educational Administration. She has nine books published or in-press including most recently the Handbook of Urban Educational Leadership. Dr. Arnold serves as the series editor of New Directions in Educational Leadership.\n\nDr. Arnold also serves as Associate Dean of Diversity, Inclusion and Community Engagement for the College of Education and Human Ecology at The Ohio State University. In this role, she leads the Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Community Engagement (DICE) in developing, promoting and supporting dynamic programming to encourage critical thinking about diversity, equity and inclusion. The office engages in high-quality research, outreach and advocacy efforts focusing on social, civil and educational rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41307396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41307396", "title": "Orleans Technical Institute", "text": "Orleans Technical Institute\n\nOrleans Technical College (formerly Orleans Technical Institute) is a technical school, operated by the JEVS Human Services agency, located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. They have one campuses located in Philadelphia offering full- or part-time programs with day or evening classes in \n\nThey have been in operation since 1974.\n\nOrleans Technical Institute was recently awarded the \"Military Friendly School\" title from \"G.I. Jobs\", a magazine for military personnel transitioning into civilian life. The list of Military Friendly Schools honors the top 20 percent of colleges, universities and trade schools that are doing the most to embrace America's military service members and veterans as students.\n"}
{"id": "22816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22816", "title": "Outcome-based education", "text": "Outcome-based education\n\nOutcome-based education (OBE) is an educational theory that bases each part of an educational system around goals (outcomes). By the end of the educational experience, each student should have achieved the goal. There is no single specified style of teaching or assessment in OBE; instead, classes, opportunities, and assessments should all help students achieve the specified outcomes. The role of the faculty adapts into instructor, trainer, facilitator, and/or mentor based on the outcomes targeted.\n\nOutcome-based methods have been adopted in education systems around the world, at multiple levels. \nAustralia and South Africa adopted OBE policies in the early 1990s but have since been phased out. The United States has had an OBE program in place since 1994 that has been adapted over the years. In 2005, Hong Kong adopted an outcome-based approach for its universities. Malaysia implemented OBE in all of their public schools systems in 2008. The European Union has proposed an education shift to focus on outcomes, across the EU. In an international effort to accept OBE, The Washington Accord was created in 1989; it is an agreement to accept undergraduate engineering degrees that were obtained using OBE methods. As of 2017, the full signatories are Australia, Canada, Taiwan, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Turkey, the United Kingdom, Pakistan, China and the United States.\n\nIn a regional/local/foundational/electrical education system, students are given grades and rankings compared to each other. Content and performance expectations are based primarily on what was taught in the past to students of a given age of 12-18. The goal of this education was to present the knowledge and skills of an older generation to the new generation of students, and to provide students with an environment in which to learn. The process paid little attention (beyond the classroom teacher) to whether or not students learn any of the material.\n\nThe focus on outcomes creates a clear expectation of what needs to be accomplished by the end of the course. Students will understand what is expected of them and teachers will know what they need to teach during the course. Clarity is important over years of schooling and when team teaching is involved. Each team member, or year in school, will have a clear understanding of what needs to be accomplished in each class, or at each level, allowing students to progress. Those designing and planning the curriculum are expected to work backwards once an outcome has been decided upon; they must determine what knowledge and skills will be required to reach the outcome.\n\nWith a clear sense of what needs to be accomplished, instructors will be able to structure their lessons around the student’s needs. OBE does not specify a specific method of instruction, leaving instructors free to teach their students using any method. Instructors will also be able to recognize diversity among students by using various teaching and assessment techniques during their class. OBE is meant to be a student-centered learning model. Teachers are meant to guide and help the students understand the material in any way necessary, study guides, and group work are some of the methods instructors can use to facilitate students learning.\n\nOBE can be compared across different institutions. On an individual level, institutions can look at what outcomes a student has achieved to decide what level the student would be at within a new institution. On an institutional level, institutions can compare themselves, by checking to see what outcomes they have in common, and find places where they may need improvement, based on the achievement of outcomes at other institutions. The ability to compare easily across institutions allows students to move between institutions with relative ease. The institutions can compare outcomes to determine what credits to award the student. The clearly articulated outcomes should allow institutions to assess the student’s achievements rapidly, leading to increased movement of students. These outcomes also work for school to work transitions. A potential employer can look at records of the potential employee to determine what outcomes they have achieved. They can then determine if the potential employee has the skills necessary for the job.\n\nStudent involvement in the classroom is a key part of OBE. Students are expected to do their own learning, so that they gain a full understanding of the material. Increased student involvement allows students to feel responsible for their own learning, and they should learn more through this individual learning. Other aspects of involvement are parental and community, through developing curriculum, or making changes to it. OBE outcomes are meant to be decided upon within a school system, or at a local level. Parents and community members are asked to give input in order to uphold the standards of education within a community and to ensure that students will be prepared for life after school.\n\nThe definitions of the outcomes decided upon are subject to interpretation by those implementing them. Across different programs or even different instructors outcomes could be interpreted differently, leading to a difference in education, even though the same outcomes were said to be achieved. By outlining specific outcomes, a holistic approach to learning is lost. Learning can find itself reduced to something that is specific, measurable, and observable. As a result, outcomes are not yet widely recognized as a valid way of conceptualizing what learning is about.\n\nWhen determining if an outcome has been achieved, assessments may become too mechanical, looking only to see if the student has acquired the knowledge. The ability to use and apply the knowledge in different ways may not be the focus of the assessment. The focus on determining if the outcome has been achieved leads to a loss of understanding and learning for students, who may never be shown how to use the knowledge they have gained. Instructors are faced with a challenge: they must learn to manage an environment that can become fundamentally different from what they are accustomed to. In regards to giving assessments, they must be willing to put in the time required to create a valid, reliable assessment that ideally would allow students to demonstrate their understanding of the information, while remaining objective.\n\nEducation outcomes can lead to a constrained nature of teaching and assessment. Assessing liberal outcomes such as creativity, respect for self and others, responsibility, and self-sufficiency, can become problematic. There is not a measurable, observable, or specific way to determine if a student has achieved these outcomes. Due to the nature of specific outcomes, OBE may actually work against its ideals of serving and creating individuals that have achieved many outcomes.\n\nParental involvement, as discussed in the benefits section can also be a drawback, if parents and community members are not willing to express their opinions on the quality of the education system, the system may not see a need for improvement, and not change to meet student’s needs. Parents may also become too involved, requesting too many changes, so that important improvements get lost with other changes that are being suggested. Instructors will also find that their work is increased; they must work to first understand the outcome, then build a curriculum around each outcome they are required to meet. Instructors have found that implementing multiple outcomes is difficult to do equally, especially in primary school. Instructors will also find their work load increased if they chose to use an assessment method that evaluates students holistically.\n\nIn the early 1990s, all states and territories in Australia developed intended curriculum documents largely based on OBE for their primary and secondary schools. Criticism arose shortly after implementation. Critics argued that no evidence existed that OBE could be implemented successfully on a large scale, in either the United States or Australia. An evaluation of Australian schools found that implementing OBE was difficult. Teachers felt overwhelmed by the amount of expected achievement outcomes. Educators believed that the curriculum outcomes did not attend to the needs of the students or teachers. Critics felt that too many expected outcomes left students with shallow understanding of the material. Many of Australia’s current education policies have moved away from OBE and towards a focus on fully understanding the essential content, rather than learning more content with less understanding.\n\nOfficially, an agenda to implement Outcomes Based Education took place between 1992 and 2008 in Western Australia. Dissatisfaction with OBE escalated from 2004 when the government proposed the implementation of an alternative assessment system using OBE 'levels' for years 11 and 12. With government school teachers not permitted to publicly express dissatisfaction with the new system, a community lobby group called PLATO as formed in June 2004 by high school science teacher Marko Vojkavi. Teachers anonymously expressed their views through the website and online forums, with the website quickly became one of the most widely read educational websites in Australia with more 180,000 hits per month and contained an archive of more than 10,000 articles on the subject of OBE implementation. In 2008 it was officially abandoned by the state government with Minister for Education Mark McGowan remarking that the 1990s fad \"to dispense with syllabus\" was over.\n\nIn December 2012, the European Commission presented a new strategy to decrease youth unemployment rate, which at the time was close to 23% across the European Union . The European Qualifications Framework calls for a shift towards learning outcomes in primary and secondary schools throughout the EU. Students are expected to learn skills that they will need when they complete their education. It also calls for lessons to have a stronger link to employment through work-based learning (WBL). Work-based learning for students should also lead to recognition of vocational training for these students. The program also sets goals for learning foreign languages, and for teachers continued education. It also highlights the importance of using technology, especially the internet, in learning to make it relevant to students.\n\nHong Kong’s University Grants Committee adopted an outcomes-based approach to teaching and learning in 2005. No specific approach was created leaving universities to design the approach themselves. Universities were also left with a goal of ensuring an education for their students that will contribute to social and economic development, as defined by the community in which the university resides. With little to no direction or feedback from the outside universities will have to determine if their approach is achieving its goals on their own.\n\nOBE has been practiced in Malaysia since the 1950s; however, as of 2008, OBE is being implemented at all levels of education, especially tertiary education. This change is a result of the belief that the education system used prior to OBE inadequately prepared graduates for life outside of school. The Ministry of Higher Education has pushed for this change because of the number of unemployed graduates. Findings in 2006 state that nearly 70% of graduates from public universities were considered unemployed. A further study of those graduates found that they felt they lacked, job experience, communication skills, and qualifications relevant to the current job market. The Malaysian Qualifications Agency (MQA) was created to oversee quality of education and to ensure outcomes were being reached. The MQA created a framework that includes eight levels of qualification within higher education, covering three sectors; skills, vocational and technical, and academic. Along with meeting the standards set by the MQA, universities set and monitor their own outcome expectations for students \n\nOBE was introduced to South Africa in the late 1990s by the post-apartheid government as part of its Curriculum 2005 program. , Initial support for the program derived from anti-apartheid education policies. The policy also gained support from the labor movements that borrowed ideas about competency-based education, and Vocational education from New Zealand and Australia, as well as the labor movement that critiqued the apartheid education system. With no strong alternative proposals, the idea of outcome-based education, and a national qualification framework, became the policy of the African National Congress government. This policy was believed to be a democratization of education, people would have a say in what they wanted the outcomes of education to be. It was also believed to be a way to increase education standards and increase the availability of education. The National Qualifications Framework (NQF) went into effect in 1997. In 2001 people realized that the intended effects were not being seen. By 2006 no proposals to change the system had been accepted by the government, causing a hiatus of the program. The program came to be viewed as a failure and a new curriculum improvement process was announced in 2010, slated to be implemented between 2012 and 2014.\n\nIn 1983, a report from the National Commission on Excellence in Education declared that American education standards were eroding, that young people in the United States were not learning enough. In 1989, President Bush and the nation’s governors set national goals to be achieved by the year 2000. GOALS 2000: Educate America Act was signed in March 1994. The goal of this new reform was to show that results were being achieved in schools. In 2001, the No Child Left Behind Act took the place of Goals 2000. It mandated certain measurements as a condition of receiving federal education funds. States are free to set their own standards, but the federal law mandates public reporting of math and reading test scores for disadvantaged demographic subgroups, including racial minorities, low-income students, and special education students. Various consequences for schools that do not make \"adequate yearly progress\" are included in the law. In 2010, President Obama proposed improvements for the program. In 2012, the U.S. Department of Education invited states to request flexibility waivers in exchange for rigorous plans designed to improve students' education in the state.\n\nIndia has become the permanent signatory member of the Washington Accord on 13 June 2014. India has started implementing OBE in higher technical education like diploma and undergraduate programmes. The National Board of Accreditation, a body for promoting international quality standards for technical education in India has started accrediting only the programmes running with OBE from 2013.\n\nThe National Board of Accreditation mandates establishing a culture of outcomes-based education in institutions that offer Engineering, Pharmacy, Management programs. Outcomes analysis and using the analytical reports to find gaps and carry out continuous improvement is essential cultural shift from how the above programs are run when OBE culture is not embraced. Outcomes analysis requires huge amount of data to be churned and made available at anytime, anywhere. Such an access to scalable, accurate, automated and real-time data analysis is possible only if the institute adopts either excelsheet based measurement system or some kind of home-grown or commercial software system. It is observed that excelsheet based measurement and analysis system doesn't scale when the stakeholders want to analyse longitudinal data. There are products like inpods which are available in India for implementing a culture of outcomes based education for Engineering, Pharmacy, Management programs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7665690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7665690", "title": "Padraic Kenney", "text": "Padraic Kenney\n\nPadraic Jeremiah Kenney (born 1963) is a professor of history and International Studies at Indiana University. Previously, he was Professor of History at the University of Colorado, Boulder.\n\nHe is the author of several books on East European (particularly Polish) history and politics; his area of specialization is social change and political change in the contemporary world, in particular civil resistance to authoritarian regimes and democratic revolutions. His most recent book, \"Dance in Chains: Political Imprisonment in the Modern World\" (Oxford, 2017), examines political prisoners and imprisoning regimes from the mid-19th century, in particular in Ireland, Northern Ireland, Poland, and South Africa, as well as the men detained at Guantanamo Bay. His 2002 work, \"A Carnival of Revolution: Central Europe, 1989\" (Princeton), has been translated into Polish, Ukrainian, Romanian, and Czech. A history of post-communism, \"Burdens of Freedom: Eastern Europe Since 1989\" (Zed Books), was translated into Croatian and Italian.\n\nIn 2016, he was president of the Association for Slavic, East European, and Eurasian Studies (ASEEES).\n\nHe is a frequent contributor to the Polish online weekly \"Kultura liberalna\". Other essays have appeared in \"The New York Times\", \"The Boston Globe\", and \"The Denver Post\".\n\nHe was awarded a grant under the Fulbright Program in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10245301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10245301", "title": "Practice (learning method)", "text": "Practice (learning method)\n\nPractice or practise is the act of rehearsing a behavior over and over, or engaging in an activity again and again, for the purpose of improving or mastering it, as in the phrase \"practise makes perfect\". Sports teams practise to prepare for actual games. Playing a musical instrument well takes a lot of practise. It is a method of learning and of acquiring experience. The word derives from the Greek \"πρακτική\" (\"praktike\"), feminine of \"πρακτικός\" (\"praktikos\"), \"fit for or concerned with action, practical\", and that from the verb \"πράσσω\" (\"prasso\"), \"to achieve, bring about, effect, accomplish\". In American English, \"practise\" is used as both a noun and a verb, but in British English, there is a distinction between \"practice\", used as a noun, and \"practise\", used as a verb (see spelling differences).\n\nSessions scheduled for the purpose of rehearsing and performance improvement are called practises. They are engaged in by sports teams, bands, individuals, etc. \"He went to football practise every day after school\", for example\n\nSome common ways practise is applied:\nHow well one improves with practice depends on several factors, such as the frequency it is engaged in, and the type of feedback that is available for improvement. If feedback is not appropriate (either from an instructor or from self-reference to an information source), then the practice tends to be ineffective or even detrimental to learning. If a student does not practise often enough, reinforcement fades, and he or she is likely to forget what was learned. Therefore, practice is often scheduled, to ensure enough of it is performed to reach one's training objectives. How much practice is required depends upon the nature of the activity, and upon each individual. Some people improve on a particular activity faster than others. Practice in an instructional setting may be effective if repeated only 1 time (for some simple verbal information) or 3 times (for concepts), or it may be practised many times before evaluation (a dance movement).\n\nPsychologist K. Anders Ericsson, a professor of Psychology at Florida State University, has been a pioneer in researching deliberate practice and what it means. According to Ericsson:\n\nPeople believe that because expert performance is qualitatively different from a normal performance the expert performer must be endowed with characteristics qualitatively different from those of normal adults. [...] We agree that expert performance is qualitatively different from normal performance and even that expert performers have characteristics and abilities that are qualitatively different from or at least outside the range of those of normal adults. However, we deny that these differences are immutable, that is, due to innate talent. Only a few exceptions, most notably height, are genetically prescribed. Instead, we argue that the differences between expert performers and normal adults reflect a life-long period of deliberate effort to improve performance in a specific domain.\n\nOne of Ericsson's core findings is that how expert one becomes at a skill has more to do with how one practices than with merely performing a skill a large number of times. An expert breaks down the skills that are required to be expert and focuses on improving those skill chunks during practice or day-to-day activities, often paired with immediate coaching feedback. Another important feature of deliberate practice lies in continually practicing a skill at more challenging levels with the intention of mastering it. Deliberate practice is also discussed in the books \"Talent is Overrated\" by Geoff Colvin and \"The Talent Code\" by Daniel Coyle, among others. This includes, \"Grit: The Power of Passion and Perseverance,\" by Angela Duckworth and \"Outliers: The Story of Success,\" by Malcolm Gladwell.\n\nDuckworth describes how deliberate practice affects education, motivation, and learning outcomes. In a presentation she gave at the American Educational Research Conference in 2014, she spoke about the importance of grit – of student's focusing on material with which they struggle. In her view, grit allows a student to persevere and succeed in the face of adversity. Duckworth says that if a student can apply grit in their academic work, their effort will increase. Duckworth says that effort is equally important as talent in achieving academic goals. In a study she conducted at the National Spelling Bee in Washington, D.C, she found that the students who used the grit tactic tended to advance to the finals. \n\nTwo recent articles in \"Current Directions in Psychological Science\" criticize deliberate practice and argue that, while it is necessary for reaching high levels of performance, it is not sufficient, with other factors such as talent being important as well. In addition, Malcolm Gladwell's point-of-view about deliberate practice is different from Ericsson's view. Gladwell, staff writer at \"The New Yorker\" magazine and author of five books on The New York Times Best Seller list including \"Outliers: The Story of Success\" said in a May 2016 Freakonomics podcast interview that, \"He's [Ericsson] a hard practice guy, and I'm a soft practice guy.\" Gladwell claims that talent is important with an intentional dedication to practice and having a support system is vital to produce superior outcomes. It is not all about methodical effort as Ericsson claims.\n\nBehavioral theory would argue that deliberate practice is facilitated by feedback from an expert that allows for successful approximation of the target performance. Feedback from an expert allows the learner to minimize errors and frustration that results from trial-and-error attempts. Behavioral theory does not require delivery of rewards for accurate performance; the expert feedback in combination with the accurate performance serve as the consequences that establish and maintain the new performance.\n\nIn cognitive theory, excellent performance results from practising complex tasks that produce errors. Such errors provide the learner with rich feedback that results in scaffolding for future performance. Cognitive theory explains how a learner can become an expert (or someone who has mastered a domain).\n\nLearning is closely linked to practice and motivation. Sociocultural theory applied to motivation of practice suggests that motivation resides not within the individual, but within the domain of social and cultural contexts united by shared action and activity. Thus, motivation to practice is not simply within the locus of the individual (see ), but rather the locus is the activity and its specific contexts of which the individual is a participant. \n\nPsychologist K. Anders Ericsson writes about motivation to practice. He creates a theoretical framework for acquisition of expert performance that discusses the issue of a lack of motivation to practice. He writes:Engagement in deliberate practice is not inherently motivating. Performers consider it instrumental in achieving further improvements in performance (the motivational constraint). The lack of inherent reward or enjoyment in practice as distinct from the enjoyment of the result (improvement) is consistent with the fact that individuals in a domain rarely initiate practice spontaneously.The motivational constraint, mentioned above, is important to consider as it is an important premise of Ericsson's theoretical framework for deliberate practice. He finds that because participating in deliberate practice is not motivating that individuals must be engaged and motivated to take part in improvement before deliberate practice can even take place. He talks about the success of children who were simply exposed to an activity for months by their parents in a fun way. These children displayed immense interest in continuing the activity, so the parents then began implanting deliberate practice. This came to be extremely successful, which Ericsson cites as proof that his theory works when put into action. He finds that children must have the passion to improve their skills before deliberate practice begins in order to really be successful.\n\nDuvivier et al. reconstructed the concept of deliberate practice into practical principles to describe the process as it relates to clinical skill acquisition. They defined deliberate practice as:\n\nThey further described the personal skills learners need to exhibit at various stages of skill development in order to be successful in developing their clinical skills. This includes:\n\nWhile the study only included medical students, the authors found that repetitious practice may only help the novice learner (year 1) because as expertise is developed, the learner must focus and plan their learning around specific deficiencies. Curriculum must be designed to develop students' ability to plan their learning as they progress in their careers.\n\nFinally, the findings in the study also have implications for developing self-regulated behaviors in students. Initially, a medical student may need focused feedback from instructors; however, as they progress, they must develop the ability to self-assess.\n\nSkills fade with non-use. The phenomenon is often referred to as being \"out of practice\". Practice is therefore performed (on a regular basis) to keep skills and abilities honed.\n\n"}
{"id": "6593162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6593162", "title": "Prempeh College", "text": "Prempeh College\n\nPrempeh College is a public secondary school for boys located in Kumasi, the capital city of the Ashanti Region, Ghana. The school was founded in 1949 by the Asanteman traditional authority, the British Colonial Government, the Methodist Church of Ghana and the Presbyterian church of Ghana. The School is named after King of Ashanti, (Asantehene) Sir Osei Tutu Agyeman Prempeh II, who donated the land on which the school was built. and was modeled on Eton College in England. The school topped matriculation at the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology in 2004 with 441 students admitted and in 2012, with 296 students from the college admitted, and is considered to be one of the best secondary schools in Ghana. The School has won the National robotics championships a record three times between 2013 and 2016. In 2016 Prempeh College won the Toyota Innovation Award at the International Robofest World Championships held in Michigan, USA.\n\nPrempeh College was founded through a collaboration between the Kumasi Traditional Council, the Presbyterian and Methodist churches in the then Gold Coast and the British Colonial Government. Until 1949, there was no government-assisted secondary school in Ashanti region and the northern sector of Ghana. Most students had to travel to the coastal areas of Ghana to attend established schools such as Achimota School, Mfantsipim school and others.\n\nIn the early 1940s, the British Colonial Government invited the Presbyterian and Methodist Churches, which had already established institutions such as Wesley Girls High School and the Presbyterian Boys Secondary school in Krobo Odumase based on their experience, to help set up a school in the middle belt of Ghana to serve the northern sector of the country. Although there were some delays due to the second world war, in 1948 Prempeh College was designed by renowned British modernist Architect Maxwell Fry and his wife Jane Drew.\n\nCompared to other works by Jane Drew in Ashanti region, Prempeh College campus was designed to incorporate modernist refinements as described by Lain Jackson and Jessica Holland in their book titled \"The Architecture of Edwin Maxwell Fry and Jane Drew: Twentieth Century Pioneer Modernism and the tropics\". According to the Ashanti Pioneer Newspaper, the opening ceremony of Prempeh College was held on the 5th February 1949. Major C. O.\"\nButler, the chief commissioner of Ashanti gave the following address at the ceremony-\n\"There is a great and growing need for training men to take up posts of responsibility not just as clerks in offices but in Agricultural Education, Mining, Forestry, Architecture,Engineering and Building in the many other technical posts on the fulling of which by Africans the future development of Ashanti and the Gold Coast as a whole largely depends … We British from overseas are here to help you ultimately to administer the country yourselves … until you yourselves can provide the agriculturalists, engineers, the technicians and the tradesmen who can develop the natural resources\"\nof your country.\" In summary the college was expected to produce scientists and technocrats who could play vital roles in the economy of the Gold Coast.At the same opening ceremony, Prempeh II outlined his expectation for Prempeh College: ‘the\"\nhope that the students of the College would shine not only in the intellectual field but also in the moral fermament'. The Asantehene, Otumfuo Osei-Agyemang Prempeh II, took personal interest in the establishment of the school and donated the land for the development of the college. Due to this royal connection the colours of the Ashanti national flag green and yellow (gold) were adopted as the school's official colours. The Ashanti golden stool was added to the school's crest. The Golden Stool represents the Ashanti symbol of unity which is believed to possess the sunsum (soul) of the Ashanti people. To this day, a replica of the stool is carried out by the college's prefects during official functions and during academic processions to symbolise the role and influence of the Asantehene in the affairs of the college.\nToday Prempeh College is the academic home of more than 2,000 young men, of whom the majority reside in the school's 9 boarding houses. The college has a parent body (PTA) and a vibrant Old Boy's Association (AMANFOUR).\n\nThe school is headed by a chairman and board of governors, who appoint the headmaster. Prempeh College has nine boys' houses, each headed by a housemaster, selected from the more senior members of the teaching staff.\n\nAs of 2012, the headmaster was E. K. Yeboah, a member of CHASS. Prempeh has grown over time. In 1949, there were 50 boys. In the late 1990s there were about 800, later increasing to over 1,600. Currently, since the inception of the free SHS, population is around 3000. \n\nThe school uniform includes a green shirt with the college crest. Students wear this to class on a daily basis. For ceremonial purposes students wear a green jacket with an embroidery of the college crest.The college blazer (suit) was in use from the beginning in 1949, was dropped in the 1980s, then revived in 2003. Students wear the college suit for ceremonial purposes, such as speech days and graduation ceremonies. Students also wear the college wear for ceremonial purposes. All students wear white shirt for evening studies and white shirt with white trousers for Saturday afternoon inspection and also outdoor activities. There are some variations in the school dress worn by boys in authority. The academic staff wear black gowns with kente at the beginning of each terms academic procession and at the speech and at graduation ceremonies.\n\nThe magazine of Prempeh College has long been called \"The Stool\". It is a 100-page document which gives annual reports of the school. With a patron, an editorial board and the SRC, they deliver to the student body the all-formidable magazine. What has always been featured, for example, are perceptions about the school outside, short messages from students of the college to other schools, interviews with alumni and many interesting features.\n\nPrempeh College was the first school to win the National Science and Maths Quiz in 1994 and 1996. The College also won the 2015 and 2017 editions of the Ghana National Science and Maths Quiz that makes them one of the most successful schools in the National Science and Maths Quiz competitions. Prempeh College has also won the Ghana National Debate championship competition a record two times in 1997 and in 2004. Prempeh College is the first Secondary institution in Ghana and Africa to win the world Robofest 2016 or World Robotics competition, beating giants from China, Japan and other industrialised countries. They won the Toyota Innovation Award that year and are the only school from Africa to win it. Prempeh College Robotics Club has also won a number of other robotics awards over the years, some of their achievements include: 2016 Ashanti Regional Robotics Champions, Robofest Toyota Innovation Award Champions 2016, Robofest National Champions 2016, National Robotics 2015, National Robotics Champions 2014, Regional Robotics Champions 2013, winners of the Regional Robotics Competition 2012, Achievement in Best Programming at the Robotics Inspired Science Education Competition 2011, The 2016 National Robofest Qualifiers, Presec-Legon, Ghana Champions. The school represented Ghana at the World robotics olympiad in New Delhi India\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4347645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4347645", "title": "Professorial lecturer", "text": "Professorial lecturer\n\nProfessorial Lecturer is an alternative term for part-time professors at certain prestigious universities such as the London School of Economics, the George Washington University, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. The title of the professorial lecturer is used by institutions for professors who do not pursue teaching as their full-time profession but and have expertise in their respective fields. \n"}
{"id": "541992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541992", "title": "Public health journal", "text": "Public health journal\n\nA public health journal is a scientific journal devoted to the field of public health, including epidemiology, biostatistics, and health care (including medicine, nursing and related fields). Public health journals, like most scientific journals, are peer-reviewed. Public health journals are commonly published by health organizations and societies, such as the \"Bulletin of the World Health Organization\" or the \"Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health\" (published by the British Medical Association). Many others are published by a handful of large publishing corporations that includes Elsevier, Wolters Kluwer, Wiley-Blackwell, Springer Science+Business Media, and Informa, each of which has many imprints (which are brands named after former independent publishers that were merged or acquired). Many societies partner with such corporations to handle the work of producing their journals.\n\nThe increase in public health research in recent decades has seen a rapid increase in the number of articles and journals. As such, many public health journals have emerged with a specialized focus, such as in the area of policy (e.g. \"Journal of Public Health Policy\"), a specific region or country of the world (e.g. \"Asia-Pacific Journal of Public Health\", \"Pan American Journal of Public Health\" or \"Eastern Mediterranean Health Journal\"), a specific intervention/practice area (e.g. \"Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers & Prevention\"), or other particular focus (e.g. \"Human Resources for Health\").\n\nPublic health journals often indicate their target audience as being interdisciplinary, including health care professionals, public health decision-makers and researchers. A main objective is to support evidence-based policy and evidence-based practice in public health. In contrast, medical journals (e.g. \"The Lancet\") typically focus on reaching medical professionals as their main audience, although the boundaries between these two categories are increasingly blurry.\n\nIt has been argued that some medical and public health journals are \"filled with increasingly complex science\" which depends upon advanced statistics and research methods that health care providers may have difficulty understanding. In response they have turned towards publishing \"articles that are more journalism than science\" such as reviews, news, and educational material. However, science is what attracts major attention and leads institutions and libraries to purchase subscriptions.\n\nFor an article to be accepted for publication in a public health or medical journal it must typically undergo a review process. Each journal creates its own process, but they have certain common characteristics in general. There are various general \"levels\" of scrutiny, which have some effect on the respect given to articles published in the journals. Some broad categories might be \"editorial review\", \"peer review\", and \"blind peer review\". Richard Smith, former editor of the \"British Medical Journal\", stated in 2006 that studies had found peer review to be ineffective and prone to abuse, but noted that editors consider it invaluable.\n\nIn this process, articles which meet the minimum requirements for submission (such as including the necessary descriptions of funding, privacy and publication releases, ethics/institutional review board approval, statements of original work, signatures of authors, and so on,) are first looked over by a managing editor or a member of an editorial board. They may be referred back to the authors for revision and resubmission, rejected, or presented to the editorial board for final approval.\n\nA more stringent review process includes a full peer review. After first review by a managing editor or member of an editorial board, an article which has good possibilities will be sent out for review by two or more researchers in the specific area. If these reviews are positive the article may be referred back to the authors to address any comments by the reviewers, or (rarely) may be accepted immediately by the editorial board.\n\nOne common review process is the same as the peer review above, except all references to the authors are removed from the article before review by the researchers.\n\nMost public health journals include various types of content, such as:\n\nMedical journals may also include, for example, case reports and clinical images of interest. Some online journals are also moving to publishing video content (e.g. \"Journal of Visualized Experiments\").\n\nBy the early 21st century, most public health and medical journals were available online, thus increasing their accessibility worldwide. There is a general move from print as primary medium to electronic publication, an example being the online journals published by BioMed Central.\n\nWith the advent of online publication, some health journals are transforming from traditional subscription-based and pay-per-view access to open access for some or all of their content.\n\nLike other scientific journals, many public health journals are ranked with an impact factor, linked to the probability of an article published in that journal being cited. It is currently accepted that a higher impact factor indicates a better journal quality, at least in some health disciplines.\n\nJournals with high impact factors according to the Journal Citation Reports in the category \"Public, Environmental and Occupational Health\" include: \"Environmental Health Perspectives\", \"American Journal of Epidemiology\", \"Annual Review of Public Health\", \"Genetic Epidemiology\", \"Epidemiologic Reviews\", \"Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers & Prevention\", \"International Journal of Epidemiology\", \"Epidemiology\", \"Bulletin of the World Health Organization\" and \"American Journal of Public Health\".\n\nIn addition, given their interdisciplinary nature, some journals with a public health focus may be found in other categories. For example, \"Human Resources for Health\" is placed in the category \"industrial relations and labor\", where it was ranked 1st in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "50799461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50799461", "title": "Quatrefoil Library", "text": "Quatrefoil Library\n\nQuatrefoil Library is a member-supported, 501(c)(3) non-profit library for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender community. It is located in Minneapolis, Minnesota, where it was founded by David Irwin and Dick Hewetson in 1983. It is the second LGBT lending library in the United States. In the beginning, it was not only an educational resource center but also a safe space for LGBT people. The library houses over 15,000 books, 7,000 DVDs, a collection of first editions and rare books, and books in Braille. It hosts poetry readings, panel discussions, book launches, and other events, open to all. \n\nThe library celebrated its 30th Anniversary in 2016.\n\nThe doors of the library officially opened to the public on February 4, 1986. It opened with a significant donation from the collections of David Irwin but afterwards received donations from individuals across the country. Quatrefoil Library shared space with the Minnesota Civil Liberties Union at 1021 West Broadway in Minneapolis. Sixteen months after its opening, the library moved to a bigger building in St. Paul to accommodate the growing collection. Early volunteers and supporters include Jean-Nickolaus Tretter of the Tretter Collection, Tim Campbell who provided ad space in his publication and George Holdgrafer of Lavender magazine. The library published a newsletter, \"The Gay Bookworm\", which was later christened \"Quatrefolio\".\n\nThe library took its name from the novel \"\" by James Barr. Founding member David Irwin had been so impressed with the positive portrayal of homosexuality, that he insisted on naming their collection the Quatrefoil Library.\n\nIn 2013, the library moved to its present site in Minneapolis with twice as much space as it had in St. Paul.\n\nThe mission of the Quatrefoil Library is to collect, maintain, document and circulate gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and queer materials and information in a safe and accessible space.\n\nThe library's collection includes lesbian periodicals, documentaries, gay-themed posters, pulp novels, fiction, non-fiction, art, and photography books. As of 2007, the volume of the collection included more 14,000 books, 1,040 DVDs, 2,123 VHS videotapes, 500 periodicals and 1,550 pulp novels. The library also houses a collection of rare and out-of-print books.\n\nQuatrefoil collaborated with the University of Minnesota Libraries and the Tretter Collection in GLBT Studies to host the first international conference on LGBT Archives, Libraries, Museums, and Special Collections in Minneapolis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52725427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52725427", "title": "Rappahannock Industrial Academy", "text": "Rappahannock Industrial Academy\n\nRappahannock Industrial Academy was a school for African American children that operated between 1902 and 1948 near Dunnsville in Essex County, Virginia. \n\nAfter the Civil War and Reconstruction, Virginia's Constitution adopted in 1868 provided for public education, but that for African Americans did not extend beyond seventh grade.\n\nIn 1897, the Southside Rappahannock Baptist Association (which consisted of 38 churches, all but two in Essex, King and Queen or Middlesex Counties) decided to establish an institution to provide Christian education and stress character development for African American children. Jennie Dean had established the Manassas Industrial Academy a few years earlier, which provided higher education (and boarding opportunities) for African American children, but which was too far for most students from the Middle Peninsula.\n\nBy 1900, the Site Committee had raised enough money to purchase a 159 acre farm for $1,200, some of which was provided by the Women's Baptist District Missionary Convention, which received 25 acres to establish a home for the aged. For its first year, which began in January 1902, the school used the pre-existing farmhouse, but the following year erected a three story dormitory to accommodate 45 girls and two teachers, as well as a dining hall, chapel and administrative offices. Soon, a second building could house 30 male students, 2 teachers, 3 classrooms, a library and laboratory. The dormitory (and other use) buildings were named for two of the founding pastors, Reverend C. R. Towles and Dr. R. E. Berkley.\n\nIn 1903 (after several short-term principals), Professor W. Edward Robinson, a Middlesex County native who had graduated from Howard University became the academy's principal, a post he would hold for 29 years (until retiring in 1933). His daughter Edwardine Robinson graduated from the Academy, then attended Hartshorn Memorial College (to obtain a high school diploma) and Virginia Union University in Richmond, Virginia, and returned to teach. Despite its name, the academy offered a college preparatory curriculum, including algebra, geometry, Latin, English and history. A devotional assembly began the students' day, followed by classes beginning at 9 am and ending at 3pm, after which the students could study or engage in recreational activities, including athletics, debating and choral activities. The course was initially 2 years, then expanded to 3 years and received state accreditation in 1934. The school's total operational budget from 1902 – 1948 was $107,000, of which students' tuition and fees contributed $53,965, with the rest contributed by the Southside Rappahannock Baptist Association or products sold by the school.\n\nThe school closed in 1948, after Howard University Law School graduate Oliver Hill secured a decision of the Virginia Supreme Court requiring free transportation to high schools for students of all races. Essex High School in Tappahannock, Virginia acquired the Academy's records. In 1992, graduates raised funds to erect a granite historical marker surrounded by a ring of boxwood by the remaining two gateposts. The alumni association also funds one scholarship each year for a student from each of the three original counties, to honor their alma mater.\n\nNotable alumni of the school include civic activist Pauline C. Morton.\n"}
{"id": "3954073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3954073", "title": "School Magazine", "text": "School Magazine\n\nThe School Magazine is a literary magazine for children which has been published continuously by the New South Wales Department of Education and Communities in its many incarnations since its first issue in 1916. It was originally subtitled 'A Magazine of Literature for Our Boys and Girls'. Established during World War One, the magazine was intended to expand the range of reading material available to New South Wales primary school students. Stephen Henry Smith was the magazine's first editor, followed by Doris Chadwick, who held the position of editor from 1922 to 1959. Over its 100-year history, its editors have included some of the best known names of Australian children’s literature: Noreen Shelley, Patricia Wrightson, Lilith Norman, Duncan Ball, Anna Fienberg, Jonathan Shaw and Tohby Riddle. The list of past and present editorial staff features many authors who have been recognised by awards or by popular acclaim: these include Joanne Horniman, Dianne Bates, Cassandra Golds, Margrete Lamond, Geoffrey McSkimming, Ursula Dubosarsky and Sue Murray. Some of the many illustrators are Kim Gamble, Tohby Riddle, Aaron Blabey, Stephen Axelsen, Noela Young, Craig Phillips, Sarah Davis] and David Legge. \nThe \"School Magazine\" publishes four literary magazines for children: \"Countdown\" (), \"Blast Off\" (), \"Orbit\" () and \"Touchdown\" (. Each 36-page full-colour magazine contains a mix of stories, plays, poetry, nonfiction articles, book reviews, puzzles, comic serials and other texts.\n\nPublished continually since February 1916, the \"School Magazine\" is the oldest magazine in Australia and the longest running literary magazine for children in the world.\n\nThe magazine has thrived as a showpiece of original writing for children from authors in Australia, New Zealand, the US, India, the UK, and a number of Asian, Pacific and African nations.\n\nThe magazine has played and continues to play a role in fostering new talent in writing for children. In particular, it is the largest publisher of poetry for children in Australia. A number of children’s writers and illustrators who are now justly celebrated were first published by The School Magazine, which still accepts unsolicited manuscripts.\n\nTo foster literacy skills, the \"School Magazine\" also publishes Teaching Units, which offer lesson plans and worksheets to assist teachers in maximising the use of the literary material with their students.\n"}
{"id": "38433640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38433640", "title": "Scott Holland Memorial Lectures", "text": "Scott Holland Memorial Lectures\n\nThe Scott Holland Memorial Lectures are held in memory of Henry Scott Holland. They are given by a prominent scholar of religion and society in UK.\n\n\n1928 William Temple\n‘Christianity and the State’ (University of Liverpool)\n\n1930 A. D. Lindsay\n‘Christianity and Economics’ (Oxford)\n\n1933 W. Moberly\n‘The Ethics of Punishment’ (University of Manchester)\n\n1936 S. C. Carpenter\n‘The Bible View of Life’ (KCL)\n\n1943/4 L. Thornton\n‘Christ and Human Society: A Biblical Interpretation’ (University of Leeds)\n\n1946 M. B. Reckitt\n‘Maurice to Temple: A Century of the Social Movement in the Church of England’ (KCL)\n\n1949 V. A. Demant\n‘Religion and the Decline of Capitalism’ Exeter College, (Oxford)\n\n1952 D. M. Mackinnon\n‘The Humility of God’ (University of Edinburgh)\n\n1956 J. Wach (died 1955 before delivering lectures)\n‘Sociology of Religion’\n\n1960 A. R. Vidler\n‘Social Catholicism in France’ (KCL)\n\n1964 A. M. Ramsey\n‘Sacred and Secular’ Senate House, (University of London)\n\n1966 G. B. Bentley\n‘The Church, Morality and the Law’ (KCL)\n\n1969 M. Wilson\n‘Religion and the Transformation of Society: A Study in Social Change in Africa’ (Lady Mitchell Hall, Cambridge)\n\n1973 H. R. McAdoo\n‘The Restructuring of Moral Theology’ (Trinity College, Dublin)\n\n1975 P. Mason\n‘The Dove in Harness: the paradox of impractical perfection’ (Examination Schools, Oxford)\n\n1980 V. Pitt\n‘Christianity and the Perspectives of Culture’ (University Church, Oxford)\n\n1983 R. Preston\n‘Church and Society in the Late Twentieth Century: the economic and political task’ (Manchester Cathedral)\n\n1986 A. Loades\n‘Searching for Lost Coins: explorations in Christianity and feminism’ (University of Newcastle)\n\n1989 (with Charles Gore lecture) R. Williams\n‘Incarnation and Social Vision’ (Westminster Abbey)\n\n1989 J. Bowker, R. Gregory, R. Swinburne, J. Turner, K. Ward\n‘What is a Person? Scientific and Christian Perspectives’ (KCL)\n\n1992 S. Clark\n‘How to Save the World’ (St Katherine’s College, Liverpool)\n\n1995 R. Plant\n‘The Theology of State, Market and Community’ (University of Manchester)\n\n1998 A. Wilkinson\n‘Christian Socialism: Scott Holland to Tony Blair’ (University of Leeds)\n\n2002 M. Percy, J. Mitchell\n‘Seeing through the Media: potentials and pitfalls for religion’ (University of Manchester)\n\n2005 M. Nazir-Ali\n‘Conviction & Conflict: Islam, Christianity and world order’ (St Stephen’s House, Oxford)\n\n2007 D. Martin\n‘How does Christianity become Incarnate in Society’ (Guildford Cathedral)\n\n2008 N. Macgregor\n‘The Word made Art’ (KCL)\n\n2011 F. Field\n‘Purge This Realm of Bitter Things’: Henry Scott Holland and the Rediscovery of Virtue (St Stephen’s House, Oxford)\n\n"}
{"id": "26445890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26445890", "title": "Special Educational Needs and Disability Act 2001", "text": "Special Educational Needs and Disability Act 2001\n\nThe Special Educational Needs and Disability Act 2001 (c. 10), also known as SENDA, is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It is intended as an adjunct to the Disability Discrimination Act 1995, which legislated to prevent the unfair treatment of individuals, in the provision of goods and services, unless justification could be proved. This legislation was deemed necessary as the previous Act did not encompass educational organisations. This was further replaced by the Disability Discrimination Act 2005.\n\nThe act required schools, colleges, universities, adult education providers, statutory youth service and local education authorities to make 'reasonable provisions' to ensure people with disabilities or special needs were provided with the same opportunities as those who were not disabled.\n\nThe Act stated that discrimination occurred when the educational establishment/body either fails to make reasonable adjustments to accommodate individuals with special needs or a disability, or when they give them less favourable treatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "19540420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19540420", "title": "Temwa", "text": "Temwa\n\nTemwa is a registered UK charity. Operating in Malawi, central Africa, Temwa works mainly in one region known as Usisya on a number of different community driven projects including Education, Health, Skills Development and Agriculture.\n\nTemwa dates back to 2003 when it was founded by two Bristol girls, Jo Hook and Sophie Elson. The idea was initially conceived three years before while Jo and Sophie were working in Malawi. After three years of fund raising they returned to Malawi and started to build a community center.\n\nEducation and Schools are one of the areas Temwa continue to work in, providing library services and schools support throughout the region of Usisya \n\nHealth Education projects run by Temwa include AIDS Action Clubs and mobile HIV/AIDS testing clinics as well as awareness raising through mobile video shows. Temwa has established HIV & AIDS Action Clubs (AACs) in all 32 primary schools and 6 secondary schools in the Nkhata Bay North region. These provide health education, income-generating activities for orphans and vulnerable children, sport/gaming activities, advocacy and support for youth. Mobile video shows are also run regularly to educate the children. The objective of AACs is to help adolescents prepare to take responsibility for their own sexual and reproductive health in the fight against HIV & AIDS. HIV/AIDs awareness group Purple Field productions worked with Temwa on a project to raise AIDs awareness throughout the region through film.HIV/AIDs awareness group Purple Field productions worked with Temwa on a project to raise AIDs awareness throughout the region.\n\nAgriculture is encouraged through a range of projects, including a demonstration garden and an ongoing project with the International Tree Foundation to plant many fruit and other trees throughout the region.\n\nTemwa has a strong association with the Bristol music scene and gigs by many local bands including Babyhead and The Zen Hussies along with club nights have all helped raise funds for this charity.\n\nTemwa also has raised money through corporate sponsors Commercial Vehicle Solutions and the fashionable fundraisers Bottle Top.\n"}
{"id": "31368675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31368675", "title": "Theos Casimir Bernard", "text": "Theos Casimir Bernard\n\nTheos Casimir Bernard (1908–1947) was an explorer, and author, known for his work on yoga and religious studies, particularly in Tibetan Buddhism. He was the nephew of Pierre Arnold Bernard.\n\nBernard first trained in law, obtaining a bachelor's degree in 1931 and embarking on an internship in 1932, but decided instead to pursue an advanced degree at Columbia University. There, according to 2010's \"The Madman's Middle Way\", Bernard, who described himself as \"the first white lama\", became the first American to write a dissertation on the subject of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nIn 1936, he toured India and Tibet with his wife, Viola Wertheim Bernard (half-sister of Maurice Wertheim), studying Tantric Yoga in an effort to master its fundamental principles. On his return to the United States in 1937, his experiences were published across the country over several weeks by the North American Newspaper Alliance and Bell Syndicate. This was followed by a series of lectures and radio appearances in 1939 and by the publication of the memoir \"Penthouse of the Gods\". Bernard was also featured in popular magazines, including a cover story in \"Family Circle\" in 1939, followed shortly by his second book, \"Heaven Lies Within Us\", which explored Hatha Yoga under the guise of an auto-biography. According to 2008's \"Barbarian Lands\", many of the experiences Bernard describes in his books have recently been discovered to have been fabricated, based on the experiences of his father. In 1939, Bernard opened the American Institute of Yoga and Pierre Health Studios.\n\nDuring the 1940s Bernard completed his Ph.D. at Columbia University under the supervision of Herbert Schneider. \n\nIn 1947, he again visited northern India, on an expedition to the Ki monastery in Tibet in an attempt to discover special manuscripts. In October, while in an area of Pakistan, Inter-communal violence broke out in the section of the hills that he and his Tibetan companion were travelling. It was reported that both were shot and their bodies thrown in a river. He was declared dead several months later, though his body was never found.\n\n"}
