{"id": "2188910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2188910", "title": "9th Prince", "text": "9th Prince\n\n9th Prince (born Terrance Hamlin) is an American rapper, musician and one of the founding members of rap group Killarmy. He was initially responsible for bringing the various members together, under the guide of his brother. He released his solo debut album \"Granddaddy Flow\" in 2003. He is the younger brother of RZA. He went by the alias Madman & Iron Fingers, especially in his early recordings. 9th Prince gets his name from the kung-fu movie \"Shaolin Prince\". He has pushed hard for a reunion album with his group, and helped to release a 'greatest hits' album.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11438528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11438528", "title": "Abibon", "text": "Abibon\n\nAbibon (fl. 1st century) was the son of Gamaliel, the teacher of Paul the Apostle. He is said by some sources to have been baptized with his father and his brother Nicodemus. They are regarded as saints of the Christian church. The finding of their relics was celebrated as a feast day on August 3, and their feast days especially commemorated on December 2 in Pisa.\n\n"}
{"id": "15548640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15548640", "title": "Adrenaline", "text": "Adrenaline\n\nAdrenaline, also known as adrenalin or epinephrine, is a hormone, neurotransmitter, and medication. Epinephrine is normally produced by both the adrenal glands and certain neurons. It plays an important role in the fight-or-flight response by increasing blood flow to muscles, output of the heart, pupil dilation response, and blood sugar level. It does this by binding to alpha and beta receptors. It is found in many animals and some single cell organisms. Napoleon Cybulski first isolated epinephrine in 1895.\n\nAs a medication, it is used to treat a number of conditions including anaphylaxis, cardiac arrest, and superficial bleeding. Inhaled epinephrine may be used to improve the symptoms of croup. It may also be used for asthma when other treatments are not effective. It is given intravenously, by injection into a muscle, by inhalation, or by injection just under the skin. Common side effects include shakiness, anxiety, and sweating. A fast heart rate and high blood pressure may occur. Occasionally it may result in an abnormal heart rhythm. While the safety of its use during pregnancy and breastfeeding is unclear, the benefits to the mother must be taken into account.\n\nA case has been made for the use of Adrenaline (epinephrine) infusion in place of the widely accepted treatment of inotopes for preterm infants with clinical cardiovascular compromise. Although there is sufficient data which strongly recommends Adrenaline infusions as a viable treatment, more trials are needed in order to conclusively determine that these infusions will successfully reduce morbidity and mortality rates among preterm, cardiovascularly compromised infants.\n\nThe adrenal medulla is a minor contributor to total circulating catecholamines (-DOPA is at a higher concentration in the plasma), though it contributes over 90% of circulating epinephrine. Little epinephrine is found in other tissues, mostly in scattered chromaffin cells. Following adrenalectomy, epinephrine disappears below the detection limit in the blood stream.\n\nThe adrenal glands contribute about 7% of circulating norepinephrine, most of which is a spill over from neurotransmission with little activity as a hormone.\nPharmacological doses of epinephrine stimulate α, α, β, β, and β adrenoceptors of the sympathetic nervous system. Sympathetic nerve receptors are classified as adrenergic, based on their responsiveness to adrenaline.\n\nThe term \"adrenergic\" is often misinterpreted in that the main sympathetic neurotransmitter is norepinephrine (noradrenaline), rather than epinephrine, as discovered by Ulf von Euler in 1946.\n\nEpinephrine does have a β adrenoceptor-mediated effect on metabolism and the airway, there being no direct neural connection from the sympathetic ganglia to the airway.\n\nThe concept of the adrenal medulla and the sympathetic nervous system being involved in the flight, fight and fright response was originally proposed by Cannon. But the adrenal medulla, in contrast to the adrenal cortex, is not required for survival. In adrenalectomized patients hemodynamic and metabolic responses to stimuli such as hypoglycemia and exercise remain normal.\n\nOne physiological stimulus to epinephrine secretion is exercise. This was first demonstrated using the denervated pupil of a cat as an assay, later confirmed using a biological assay on urine samples. Biochemical methods for measuring catecholamines in plasma were published from 1950 onwards. Although much valuable work has been published using fluorimetric assays to measure total catecholamine concentrations, the method is too non-specific and insensitive to accurately determine the very small quantities of epinephrine in plasma. The development of extraction methods and enzyme-isotope derivate radio-enzymatic assays (REA) transformed the analysis down to a sensitivity of 1 pg for epinephrine. Early REA plasma assays indicated that epinephrine and total catecholamines rise late in exercise, mostly when anaerobic metabolism commences.\n\nDuring exercise the epinephrine blood concentration rises partially from increased secretion from the adrenal medulla and partly from decreased metabolism because of reduced hepatic blood flow. Infusion of epinephrine to reproduce exercise circulating concentrations of epinephrine in subjects at rest has little haemodynamic effect, other than a small β-mediated fall in diastolic blood pressure. Infusion of epinephrine well within the physiological range suppresses human airway hyper-reactivity sufficiently to antagonize the constrictor effects of inhaled histamine.\n\nA link between what we now know as the sympathetic system and the lung was shown in 1887 when Grossman showed that stimulation of cardiac accelerator nerves reversed muscarine-induced airway constriction. In experiments in the dog, where the sympathetic chain was cut at the level of the diaphragm, Jackson showed that there was no direct sympathetic innervation to the lung, but that bronchoconstriction was reversed by release of epinephrine from the adrenal medulla. An increased incidence of asthma has not been reported for adrenalectomized patients; those with a predisposition to asthma will have some protection from airway hyper-reactivity from their corticosteroid replacement therapy. Exercise induces progressive airway dilation in normal subjects that correlates with work load and is not prevented by beta blockade. The progressive dilation of the airway with increasing exercise is mediated by a progressive reduction in resting vagal tone. Beta blockade with propranolol causes a rebound in airway resistance after exercise in normal subjects over the same time course as the bronchoconstriction seen with exercise induced asthma. The reduction in airway resistance during exercise reduces the work of breathing.\n\nEvery emotional response has a behavioral component, an autonomic component, and a hormonal component. The hormonal component includes the release of epinephrine, an adrenomedullary response that occurs in response to stress and that is controlled by the sympathetic nervous system. The major emotion studied in relation to epinephrine is fear. In an experiment, subjects who were injected with epinephrine expressed more negative and fewer positive facial expressions to fear films compared to a control group. These subjects also reported a more intense fear from the films and greater mean intensity of negative memories than control subjects. The findings from this study demonstrate that there are learned associations between negative feelings and levels of epinephrine. Overall, the greater amount of epinephrine is positively correlated with an arousal state of negative feelings. These findings can be an effect in part that epinephrine elicits physiological sympathetic responses including an increased heart rate and knee shaking, which can be attributed to the feeling of fear regardless of the actual level of fear elicited from the video. Although studies have found a definite relation between epinephrine and fear, other emotions have not had such results. In the same study, subjects did not express a greater amusement to an amusement film nor greater anger to an anger film. Similar findings were also supported in a study that involved rodent subjects that either were able or unable to produce epinephrine. Findings support the idea that epinephrine does have a role in facilitating the encoding of emotionally arousing events, contributing to higher levels of arousal due to fear.\n\nIt has been found that adrenergic hormones, such as epinephrine, can produce retrograde enhancement of long-term memory in humans. The release of epinephrine due to emotionally stressful events, which is endogenous epinephrine, can modulate memory consolidation of the events, ensuring memory strength that is proportional to memory importance. Post-learning epinephrine activity also interacts with the degree of arousal associated with the initial coding. There is evidence that suggests epinephrine does have a role in long-term stress adaptation and emotional memory encoding specifically. Epinephrine may also play a role in elevating arousal and fear memory under particular pathological conditions including post-traumatic stress disorder. Overall, \"Extensive evidence indicates that epinephrine (EPI) modulates memory consolidation for emotionally arousing tasks in animals and human subjects.”\nStudies have also found that recognition memory involving epinephrine depends on a mechanism that depends on β adrenoceptors. Epinephrine does not readily cross the blood–brain barrier, so its effects on memory consolidation are at least partly initiated by β adrenoceptors in the periphery. Studies have found that sotalol, a β adrenoceptor antagonist that also does not readily enter the brain, blocks the enhancing effects of peripherally administered epinephrine on memory. These findings suggest that β adrenoceptors are necessary for epinephrine to have an effect on memory consolidation.\n\nFor noradrenaline to be acted upon by PNMT in the cytosol, it must first be shipped out of granules of the chromaffin cells. This may occur via the catecholamine-H exchanger VMAT1. VMAT1 is also responsible for transporting newly synthesized adrenaline from the cytosol back into chromaffin granules in preparation for release.\n\nIn liver cells, adrenaline binds to the β adrenergic receptor, which changes conformation and helps G, a G protein, exchange GDP to GTP. This trimeric G protein dissociates to G alpha and G beta/gamma subunits. Gs alpha binds to adenyl cyclase, thus converting ATP into cyclic AMP. Cyclic AMP binds to the regulatory subunit of protein kinase A: Protein kinase A phosphorylates phosphorylase kinase. Meanwhile, Gs beta/gamma binds to the calcium channel and allows calcium ions to enter the cytoplasm. Calcium ions bind to calmodulin proteins, a protein present in all eukaryotic cells, which then binds to phosphorylase kinase and finishes its activation. Phosphorylase kinase phosphorylates glycogen phosphorylase, which then phosphorylates glycogen and converts it to glucose-6-phosphate. \n\nIncreased epinephrine secretion is observed in pheochromocytoma, hypoglycemia, myocardial infarction and to a lesser degree in benign essential familial tremor. A general increase in sympathetic neural activity is usually accompanied by increased adrenaline secretion, but there is selectivity during hypoxia and hypoglycaemia, when the ratio of adrenaline to noradrenaline is considerably increased. Therefore, there must be some autonomy of the adrenal medulla from the rest of the sympathetic system.\n\nMyocardial infarction is associated with high levels of circulating epinephrine and norepinephrine, particularly in cardiogenic shock.\n\nBenign familial tremor (BFT) is responsive to peripheral β adrenergic blockers and β-stimulation is known to cause tremor. Patients with BFT were found to have increased plasma epinephrine, but not norepinephrine.\n\nLow, or absent, concentrations of epinephrine can be seen in autonomic neuropathy or following adrenalectomy. Failure of the adrenal cortex, as with Addisons disease, can suppress epinephrine secretion as the activity of the synthesing enzyme, phenylethanolamine-\"N\"-methyltransferase, depends on the high concentration of cortisol that drains from the cortex to the medulla.\n\nIn 1901, Jokichi Takamine patented a purified extract from the adrenal glands, and called it \"adrenalin\" (from the Latin for \"on top of the kidneys\" (\"ad\" and \"renal\"), which was trademarked by Parke, Davis & Co in the US. The British Approved Name and European Pharmacopoeia term for this drug is hence \"adrenaline\".\n\nHowever, the pharmacologist John Abel had already prepared an extract from adrenal glands as early as 1897, and coined the name \"epinephrine \" to describe it (from the Greek for \"on top of the kidneys\"). In the belief that Abel's extract was the same as Takamine's (a belief since disputed), epinephrine became the generic name in the US, and remains the pharmaceutical's United States Adopted Name and International Nonproprietary Name (though the name adrenaline is frequently used).\n\nThe terminology is now one of the few differences between the INN and BAN systems of names. Although European health professionals and scientists preferentially use the term \"adrenaline\", the converse is true among American health professionals and scientists. Nevertheless, even among the latter, receptors for this substance are called \"adrenergic receptors\" or \"adrenoceptors\", and pharmaceuticals that mimic its effects are often called \"adrenergics\".\n\nAs a hormone, epinephrine acts on nearly all body tissues. Its actions vary by tissue type and tissue expression of adrenergic receptors. For example, high levels of epinephrine causes smooth muscle relaxation in the airways but causes contraction of the smooth muscle that lines most arterioles.\n\nEpinephrine acts by binding to a variety of adrenergic receptors. Epinephrine is a nonselective agonist of all adrenergic receptors, including the major subtypes α, α, β, β, and β. Epinephrine's binding to these receptors triggers a number of metabolic changes. Binding to α-adrenergic receptors inhibits insulin secretion by the pancreas, stimulates glycogenolysis in the liver and muscle, and stimulates glycolysis and inhibits insulin-mediated glycogenesis in muscle. β adrenergic receptor binding triggers glucagon secretion in the pancreas, increased adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion by the pituitary gland, and increased lipolysis by adipose tissue. Together, these effects lead to increased blood glucose and fatty acids, providing substrates for energy production within cells throughout the body.\n\nIts actions are to increase peripheral resistance via α receptor-dependent vasoconstriction and to increase cardiac output via its binding to β receptors. The goal of reducing peripheral circulation is to increase coronary and cerebral perfusion pressures and therefore increase oxygen exchange at the cellular level. While epinephrine does increase aortic, cerebral, and carotid circulation pressure, it lowers carotid blood flow and end-tidal CO or ECO levels. It appears that epinephrine may be improving macrocirculation at the expense of the capillary beds where actual perfusion is taking place.\n\nEpinephrine may be quantified in blood, plasma or serum as a diagnostic aid, to monitor therapeutic administration, or to identify the causative agent in a potential poisoning victim. Endogenous plasma epinephrine concentrations in resting adults are normally less than 10 ng/L, but may increase by 10-fold during exercise and by 50-fold or more during times of stress. Pheochromocytoma patients often have plasma adrenaline levels of 1000–10,000 ng/L. Parenteral administration of epinephrine to acute-care cardiac patients can produce plasma concentrations of 10,000 to 100,000 ng/L.\n\nIn chemical terms, epinephrine is one of a group of monoamines called the catecholamines. It is produced in some neurons of the central nervous system, and in the chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla from the amino acids phenylalanine and tyrosine.\n\nEpinephrine is synthesized in the medulla of the adrenal gland in an enzymatic pathway that converts the amino acid tyrosine into a series of intermediates and, ultimately, epinephrine. Tyrosine is first oxidized to -DOPA, which is subsequently decarboxylated to give dopamine. Dopamine is then converted to norepinephrine by dopamine beta-hydroxylase. The final step in epinephrine biosynthesis is the methylation of the primary amine of norepinephrine. This reaction is catalyzed by the enzyme phenylethanolamine \"N\"-methyltransferase (PNMT) which utilizes \"S\"-adenosyl methionine (SAMe) as the methyl donor. While PNMT is found primarily in the cytosol of the endocrine cells of the adrenal medulla (also known as chromaffin cells), it has been detected at low levels in both the heart and brain.\nThe major physiologic triggers of adrenaline release center upon stresses, such as physical threat, excitement, noise, bright lights, and high or low ambient temperature. All of these stimuli are processed in the central nervous system.\n\nAdrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and the sympathetic nervous system stimulate the synthesis of adrenaline precursors by enhancing the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine β-hydroxylase, two key enzymes involved in catecholamine synthesis. ACTH also stimulates the adrenal cortex to release cortisol, which increases the expression of PNMT in chromaffin cells, enhancing adrenaline synthesis. This is most often done in response to stress. The sympathetic nervous system, acting via splanchnic nerves to the adrenal medulla, stimulates the release of adrenaline. Acetylcholine released by preganglionic sympathetic fibers of these nerves acts on nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, causing cell depolarization and an influx of calcium through voltage-gated calcium channels. Calcium triggers the exocytosis of chromaffin granules and, thus, the release of adrenaline (and noradrenaline) into the bloodstream.\n\nUnlike many other hormones adrenaline (as with other catecholamines) does not exert negative feedback to down-regulate its own synthesis. Abnormally elevated levels of adrenaline can occur in a variety of conditions, such as surreptitious epinephrine administration, pheochromocytoma, and other tumors of the sympathetic ganglia.\n\nIts action is terminated with reuptake into nerve terminal endings, some minute dilution, and metabolism by monoamine oxidase and catechol-\"O\"-methyl transferase.\n\nExtracts of the adrenal gland were first obtained by Polish physiologist Napoleon Cybulski in 1895. These extracts, which he called \"nadnerczyna\" (\"adrenalin\"), contained adrenaline and other catecholamines. American ophthalmologist William H. Bates discovered adrenaline's usage for eye surgeries prior to 20 April 1896. Japanese chemist Jokichi Takamine and his assistant Keizo Uenaka independently discovered adrenaline in 1900. In 1901, Takamine successfully isolated and purified the hormone from the adrenal glands of sheep and oxen. Adrenaline was first synthesized in the laboratory by Friedrich Stolz and Henry Drysdale Dakin, independently, in 1904.\n\nAn \"adrenaline junkie\" is somebody who engages in sensation-seeking behavior through \"the pursuit of novel and intense experiences without regard for physical, social, legal or financial risk\". Such activities include extreme and risky sports, substance abuse, unsafe sex, and crime. The term relates to the increase in circulating levels of adrenaline during physiological stress. Such an increase in the circulating concentration of adrenaline is secondary to activation of the sympathetic nerves innervating the adrenal medulla, as it is rapid and not present in animals where the adrenal gland has been removed. Although such stress triggers adrenaline release, it also activates many other responses within the central nervous system reward system which drives behavioral responses, so while the circulating adrenaline concentration is present, it may not drive behavior. Nevertheless, adrenaline infusion alone does increase alertness and has roles in the brain including the augmentation of memory consolidation.\n\nAdrenaline has been implicated in feats of great strength, often occurring in times of crisis. For example, there are stories of a parent lifting part of a car when their child is trapped underneath.\n\n"}
{"id": "8168450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8168450", "title": "Alexander D. Goode", "text": "Alexander D. Goode\n\nAlexander David Goode (May 10, 1911 – February 3, 1943) was a rabbi and a lieutenant in the United States Army. He was one of the Four Chaplains who gave their lives to save other soldiers during the sinking of the troop transport during World War II\n\nBorn in Brooklyn, New York, in 1911, Goode was one of four children of Brooklyn rabbi Hyman Goodekowitz. Raised in Washington, D.C., Goode excelled at sports at Eastern High School. He became a rabbi after graduating from the University of Cincinnati and in 1937 Hebrew Union College (HUC). While studying at HUC, he spent summers working as a rabbinic student at the Washington Hebrew Congregation. In 1940, he received his Ph.D from Johns Hopkins University. He was married in 1935 to Teresa Flax, niece of Al Jolson, with whom he had one daughter, Rosalie.\n\nGoode served as a rabbi in Marion, Indiana, and York, Pennsylvania. In 1941, Goode founded Boy Scout Troop 37 in York as a multi-cultural mixed race troop, the first troop in the U.S. to have scouts earn Catholic, Jewish, and Protestant awards.\n\nIn that same year, he applied to become a Navy chaplain but was turned down. The following year he was accepted into the Army, with orders to Harvard where he studied at the chaplain's school in preparation for deployment to Europe followed by brief service at an airbase in Goldsboro, North Carolina. In October 1942, he joined the other members of the Four Chaplains and was detailed to embark on the \"Dorchester\" a few months later.\n\nIn late 1942, Goode was transferred to Camp Myles Standish in Taunton, Massachusetts, and attended Chaplains School at Harvard University. There he met fellow chaplains George L. Fox, Clark V. Poling and John P. Washington.\nIn January 1943, the chaplains embarked on board the \"Dorchester\", which was transporting over 900 soldiers to the United Kingdom via Greenland.\n\nOn February 2, 1943, the German submarine \"U-223\" spotted the convoy on the move and closed with the ships, firing a torpedo which struck the \"Dorchester\" shortly after midnight. Hundreds of men packed the decks of the rapidly sinking ship and scrambled for the lifeboats. Several of the lifeboats had been damaged and the four chaplains began to organize frightened soldiers. They distributed life jackets from a locker; when the supply of life jackets ran out, each of the chaplains gave his to other soldiers. When the last lifeboats were away, the chaplains prayed with those unable to escape the sinking ship. 27 minutes after the torpedo struck, the \"Dorchester\" disappeared below the waves with 672 men still aboard. The last anyone saw of the four chaplains, they were standing on the deck, arms linked and praying together.\n\nThe four chaplains were all awarded the Distinguished Service Cross and the Purple Heart and received national acclaim for their courage and self-sacrifice. A chapel in their honor was dedicated on February 3, 1951, by President Harry S. Truman at Grace Baptist Church of Philadelphia. The Four Chaplains' Medal was established by act of Congress on July 14, 1960, and was presented posthumously to their next of kin by Secretary of the Army Wilber M. Brucker at Ft. Myer, Virginia, on January 18, 1961.\n\nGoode is honored with a feast day along with the other Four Chaplains on the liturgical calendar of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America on February 3.\n\n\nAn elementary school in York, PA is named in Rabbi Goode's honor. A mural of Rabbi Goode and the other three chaplains who died with him is displayed in the school's lobby.\n"}
{"id": "58662817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58662817", "title": "Altamuran Revolution", "text": "Altamuran Revolution\n\nThe Altamuran Revolution (, also \"Rivoluzione altamurana\") was a three month period of self-government of Italian town Altamura, right after the birth of the Parthenopean Republic (23 January 1799) which ousted the Bourbons and the Kingdom of Naples. The city of the Kingdom of Naples was then defeated and taken by the so-called Sanfedisti, led by cardinal Fabrizio Ruffo, after a battle on the city walls. After being defeated, most Altamurans managed to flee from \"porta Bari\", one of Altamura's main gates.\n\nIn February 1799, the news that the king had fled to Palermo arrived in Altamura. Altamura population then reorganized and embraced the ideals propagated by the French Revolution. The Liberty Tree was also planted in what it was then called \"piazza del mercato\" (today it's called \"piazza Duomo\"). In the meantime, the Sanfedisti,led by the cardinal Fabrizio Ruffo, were getting closer and closer, determined to restore the Kingdom of Naples and the Bourbons dynasty. Sanfedisti left Matera and arrived at the gates of Altamura on 9 May 1799. Altamura had already fixed everything before the battle, by closing the secondary city gates, fusing the church bells in order to make new cannons and preparing ammunition. On 9 May, the battle took place, but soon Altamurans ran off of ammunition and they started to shoot coins. This let the enemy realize that the situation inside the city was critical and that they wouldn't last for long. On the night of 9 May 1799, most Altamurans managed to escape from \"porta Bari\" (perhaps accidentally or thanks to Ruffo unbeknown to his troops). On the morning of 10 May, Sanfedisti entered Altamura, sacking and slaughtering an unknown number of Altamurans who had remained there. The stay of Sanfedisti and Ruffo inside the city lasted 14 days, during which Altamurans gradually returned and some of them were killed or imprisoned. By the end of May 1799, the situation had already normalized and Altamura had returned under the full control of the Kingdom of Naples.\n\nThe number of deaths among Sanfedisti has been estimated at around 1,400 people, but it is not clear how many Altamurans were killed. Some historians estimated the losses among Altamurans from about forty to a hundred people, while other historians suggested that many Altamurans and Neapolitan Jacobin people from other cities may have been counted as Sanfedisti. In this case, the death toll among Altamurans and Parthenopean Republicans would be much higher.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23712707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23712707", "title": "Buddhism and euthanasia", "text": "Buddhism and euthanasia\n\nBuddhist views, although varying on a series of canons within the three branches of Buddhism (Theravada, Mahayana, and Vajrayana), observe the concept of euthanasia, or \"mercy killing\", in a denunciatory manner. Such methods of euthanasia include voluntary, involuntary, and non-voluntary. In the past, as one school of Buddhism evolved into the next, their scriptures recorded through the oral messages of Buddha himself on Buddhist principles and values followed, guiding approximately 500 million Buddhists spanning the globe on their path to nirvana. In the Monastic Rule, or Vinaya, a consensus is reached by the Buddha on euthanasia and assisted suicide that expresses a lack of fondness of its practice.\nBuddhism does not confirm that life should be conserved by implementing whatever is necessary to prolong death, but instead expresses that the intentional precipitation of death is ethically inadmissible in every condition one is presented in.\n\nThe Vinaya Tripitaka is one of three Buddhist canonical sources that makes up the Tripitaka that most relates to euthanasia. It was created to encompass a series of case laws in which Buddha provided judgement on various matters, even though the term \"euthanasia\" is not specifically mentioned. Monks and nuns are meant to follow the decorum that is relayed, which expresses what is considered to be wrongfully killing someone (prohibited by Buddhist precepts) by the actions of another who is conferred to follow holy orders and those who are not. Outside of Vinaya, there is no specific mention in early Buddhist texts on euthanasia. During the life of Buddha, instances occurred when monks who practiced medicine were put in situations where they had to make a decision to assist in another's suicide by physically taking their life, providing the instrument used to take their life, or allowing the person to suffer, as observed in cases written in Vinaya. The Buddha, therefore, included a precept in Vinaya against the termination of another human life following the discovery that monks either took their own life or requested that others kill them because they were unhappy with their body. Buddha stated that:\n\nWith this, Buddha later expanded the precept in the third parajika, adding the punishment of excommunication for life from the Sangha after recognizing a number of monks provoking a patient to believe that he should choose death over life. In this instance, the monks praised the idea that death was beautiful to a sick monk, persuading him to take an unrevealed measure to end his life. Because of the monk's expression of virtue, as he was informed by other monks, he would receive a good rebirth. As a result of these provocations, the monk stopped eating and later died.\n\nBuddhists believe that life begins at the point of birth and ends when the individual dies. Throughout the course of the individual's life, between life and death, they are to be respected with dignity, regardless of their state of mental capacity or psychometric functions. What constitutes life in a body is usma (heat), ayu (vitality), and vinanna (sentiency). Among Buddhists, there is much confusion as to when one is truly dead. Some consider death to be when the brain loses its functionality. And there are those who disagree with this idea. When Buddha passed away, according to ancient texts, his 25-year personal attendant Ananda declared him as dead. However, Ananda was later corrected by a monk senior to him, claiming that Buddha was only in a severe state of yogistic stupor. During this yogic trance, Buddha lacked any vital signs of life, making it unclear for future Buddhists to determine the point of death when such physiological states exist and are relayed in Buddhist literary texts. Although at death one loses all physical possessions, leaving their family, loved ones, and achievements all behind, death does not destroy all that belongs to a person. The purification of their character through virtuous and meditative practices carries over into their next life and into their mental sequence of continuation.Buddhists hold the belief that upon death, they are reborn and will experience life through a series of lifetimes called samsara until they can cease to desire and nirvana is obtained. In conjunction with a person's previously attained karma, their state of mind at the point of death holds great importance when the determining of what kind of rebirth is to take place. There are six realms of life in Buddhist cosmology: Hell realm (Naraka), hungry ghost (Preta) realm, animal realm (Tiracchānayoni), human realm (Manussa), demi-god realm (Asura), and god realm (Deva). Of all the realms that exist, the human realm is the most anticipated, yet the most difficult to obtain. Based on the level of karma one garners in their current lifetime, it is determined at which realm one diverges to next upon death. The first three realms (Hell realm, hungry ghost realm, and animal realm) are the most detested of the six and are meant to cause suffering, disallowing proper mental capabilities as a result of negative karma from negative acts performed during the previous life. And although more acceptable than the former, the asura and god realm remain unfavorable as they permit one ultimate happiness but prevents the opportunity for the spirit to progress. Only through good karma can one's spirit reach the human realm. Euthanasia, although it can be considered a compassionate act, is not seen in Buddhism as an act of selflessness and benevolence, but rather an act of damage masked as help, which in turn can result in negative karma. If someone is suffering as a result of sickness, it could be a result of karma, and ending their life is not likely to end their adversity, as the suffering caused by karma will only follow them after death until its energy concludes.\n\nCompassion (karuṇā) is a Buddhist value that reinforces how Buddhism views standards in medicine, which is observed in all three schools of Buddhism. Although it can be seen as morally good, committing an act through compassion is not always justified. Taking a life out of compassion to mitigate the affliction one experiences through illness or injury is an instance in which a person may feel he or she is vindicated to exploit euthanasia. However, in Buddhism and the Bodhisattva, it can create incongruities through the infringement of life. An example of an unjustified act of compassion is a case written in the Vinaya, where a convicted man is hastily executed after a monk requests the executioner to do so, as to not prolong his suffering and the sorrowful period he has to wait. A morally good scenario of compassion would be if a patient in a hospital in his or her right mind feels that their ailment is using too much of a valuable resource in limited quantities, or causing their family to spend large sums of money that is not readily available on medical bills to keep them alive. Out of morally good compassion, he or she might decide to cease the sources of life preservation without pressure from others. Had those associations been pressuring the patient to forgo further life saving treatment, this could be observed as murderous. If the patient were terminally ill and unable to eat on their own accord, it would be a requirement of his or her associations to assist them, even if intravenous feeding was necessary. Buddhism paints life in a way that is fundamentally valuable, and it should never be surrendered for any reason, whether compassion, amity, or anything of value. It would be an ill-advised way to show compassion rooted in misconception to endorse death using compassion as the reasoning.\n\nAccording to Buddhist precepts, someone who is in a vegetative state is neither dead nor alive, but instead is said to be in some form of obscure state of mind and still a living individual. They lack the necessity to rely on outside assistance to support their ability to stay alive other than being supplemented with nutrients to keep them functioning for a significant number of years. With this, Buddhism sees someone in a vegetative state as a living, breathing life form, because the value in which one's life holds is not observed through individualism. Although Buddhism views this state of being as damaged, the individual should be treated no different than before. Both animals and humans, prior to their birth as they await in the mother's womb, have value and therefore should not have their life taken from them. However, some Buddhists are under the impression that an unconscious life, or one that lacks awareness, does not have value, which is highly debatable. Buddhism shows that even with a damaged physical organ, such as the brain, someone is still deserving of compassion because they are still capable of causing varying emotions in someone who cares for them. To end a life because of a patient's state of mind and to deny them treatment would be an act of abandonment, which would be considered irrational and unfair because Buddhists have a strong belief in compassion for all living things.\n\nA vegetative state can be considered a varied form of meditation where the sentience of someone acts in a way not ordinary to what is regularly observed. Another form of consciousness where the body does not react is that of \"formless\" rebirths. Due to these meditative states, it is often difficult to determine in a physical manner a state of consciousness. The state of consciousness, at the time, may be experiencing a demonstration of going through the processes of death in ultimate preparation so that once death does come, it can receive the best form of rebirth. During this process of preparation, the eyes and other sense-organs will cease to function, but the person's sense of touch, brain function, and life force lie in the heart. In Buddhism, considering the conception of meditative states, some in a vegetative state are therefore still sentient. Being in a continuous state of vegetation is not the same as the process by which one prepares for death, even though it does resemble it. The possibility exists for one to lack the function to breathe and think, but still be alive.\n\nMoving someone who is terminally ill into hospice care to help mitigate physical pain with pain relievers that is not intended to end their life, allowing them to pass away painless and comfortable, is a highly considerable alternative to euthanasia. Hospice care is meant to assist a person to have, what is called a \"good death.\" When one nears death, they should be able to reflect on their life peacefully. Since 1971, the San Francisco Zen Center has offered assistance to terminally ill patients, with trained hospice employees since the inception of a hospice training program in 1987. The Buddhist Hospice Trust in the United Kingdom has been an alternative to this center since its founding in 1987. Not only does it provide volunteers to visit those nearing death, but it provides an avenue for those who lost someone they cared about to receive counsel and sympathy and is also used as a center into researching death and mourning. The purpose of such a center is to truly alleviate any amount of anxiety one could experience when approaching death, leaving known loved ones behind, and to ensure a clear and calm state of mind. Hospice care employees therefore prefer not to allow a person to die in an anesthetized, unconscious state of mind. A positive transition to a future life is best obtained when one dies with a clear conscience, free of anger, dissent, and anxiety, and in a relaxed state of being. In Buddhism, a \"good death\" is facilitated by family and friends, who do their best to ensure the dying person is untroubled and uplifted.\n\n"}
{"id": "5170842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5170842", "title": "Capital punishment in Iran", "text": "Capital punishment in Iran\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty in Iran. Crimes punishable by death include murder; rape; child molestation; sodomy; drug trafficking; armed robbery; kidnapping; terrorism; burglary; pedophilia; homosexuality; incestuous relations; fornication; prohibited sexual relations; sexual misconduct; prostitution; plotting to overthrow the Islamic regime; political dissidence; sabotage; arson; rebellion; apostasy; adultery; blasphemy; extortion; counterfeiting; smuggling; speculating; disrupting production; recidivist consumption of alcohol; producing or preparing food, drink, cosmetics or sanitary items that lead to death when consumed or used; producing and publishing pornography; using pornographic materials to solicit sex; recidivist false accusation of capital sexual offenses causing execution of an innocent person; recidivist theft; certain military offenses (e.g. cowardice, assisting the enemy); \"enmity against God\"; \"corruption on earth\"; espionage and treason. Iran carried out at least 977 executions in 2015, at least 567 executions in 2016, and at least 507 executions in 2017.\n\nIran is believed to execute the most people per capita. However, other countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan, and Nigeria allegedly carry out secret executions. Iran insists that the execution numbers human rights groups allege are exaggerated, and that executions are only carried out after a lengthy judicial process. \nIranian officials cite that they are fighting a large-scale drug war along its eastern borders, and the increase of drug lords and dealers causes a rise in executions.\n\nIran has garnered Western media attention and criticism for allegedly carrying out executions of minors despite having signed the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which forbids executing child offenders for crimes committed under the age of 18. Iran justifies its actions by claiming dispensation in cases where the Convention is deemed \"incompatible with Islamic jurisprudence\". Iran has also been criticized for allegedly using stoning as capital punishment, though an Iranian judiciary spokesman fiercely denied the accusations of stoning and executing minors, describing these as propaganda against the Iranian state.\n\nDeath sentences in Iran are, in theory, legal for many different crimes, such as armed robbery, treason, espionage, murder, certain military offenses, drug trafficking, rape, pedophilia, sodomy, sexual misconduct, incestuous relations, fornication, homosexuality, prostitution, plotting to overthrow the Islamic regime, political dissidence, sabotage, apostasy, blasphemy, adultery, producing and publishing pornography, burglary, recidivist consumption of alcohol, recidivist theft, rebellion, some economic crimes, kidnapping, terrorism and few others.\n\nThere are four classes of crimes in Iranian law: qesas crimes, hadd crimes, tazir crimes, and deterrent crimes.\n\nIn Iran, laws are created by the Islamic Consultative Assembly, also known as the Parliament of Iran (Majlis). They must be verified by the Guardian Council and signed by the President of Iran. The laws must be consistent with Sharia, although many laws are derived from pre-revolution civil law, rather than Sharia. For example, while almost 80% of Iranian executions are for drug traffickers, drug trafficking laws are part of Iranian civil law, not Sharia law.\n\nThere are three types of criminal courts. Criminal courts of first instance try serious crimes, hadd crimes, and qesas crimes, such as murder, rape, and theft. These courts can issue death sentences. Criminal courts of second instance try misdemeanors and contraventions. The Islamic Revolutionary Courts try offenses aimed against the state and its associated institutions. Crimes include smuggling (e.g. of drugs or weapons), terrorism, counterfeiting, and treason. The revolutionary courts can also issue death sentences.\n\nIn most cases (about 90%), executions are carried out in a provincial prison in the province where the crime took place. In serious cases, the criminal is publicly executed at the spot the crime was committed. Many serious criminals or drug-related criminals are sent to larger, more centralized prisons, such as Evin and Gohardasht Prisons in Tehran and Vakilabad Prison in Mashhad.\n\nA death sentence can be appealed to the Supreme Court of Cassation of Iran, which can affirm or deny the sentence. If the Supreme Court of Cassation finds irregularities, it can send the case to a lower court for a retrial. There is no limit on the number of times that a defendant may appeal, but if guilt is established the Court will affirm the sentence. In murder and rape cases, the perpetrator can ask for forgiveness from the victim's family; in other cases, the perpetrator can ask for clemency from the \"Amnesty and Pardons Commission\" of Iran to reduce their sentences.\n\nIn 2011, an amendment to the Dangerous Drugs Act ended the official right of appeal for repeat drug offenders. Instead, they can directly appeal to the Prosecutor General of Iran. This change was made because the regular appeals courts were overloaded and could not carry out their work quickly due to a heavy volume of drug cases.\n\nOften execution is delayed until the person completes a prison sentence. Some murder and rape cases are delayed for five years in order to maximize the possibility of forgiveness and reaching a settlement.\n\nIn Iran (as in other Muslim countries), there are two types of sentences resulting in death. The first is a \"qesas-e-nafs\" (retribution) sentence, when a murder victim's family refuses to forgive a murderer (see \"Qesas crimes\" below). The other type is a regular death sentence, \"hokm-e-edam\", for crimes such as rape and drug trafficking. These sentences are completely separate in Iranian law, and this has created some confusion in news sources when authorities say that a murder will not result in \"execution\", but in \"qesas\".\n\nIn 2015, Amnesty International argued that executions in Iran were after sentences by courts that were almost always \"completely lacking in independence and impartiality\" and that \"Trials in Iran are deeply flawed, detainees are often denied access to lawyers, and there are inadequate procedures for appeal, pardon and commutation.\"\n\nIn Sharia law, a qesas crime is a class of crime that can be punished by retribution. The Sharia crime of intentional murder (ghatl-e-amd) is one crime punished by qesas, which in this case is a life for a life.\n\nDiyyeh is a private settlement claim between the victim's family and the perpetrator. The victim's family has the option to forgive the criminal by accepting diyya (a financial settlement to compensate for the family's loss) rather than allowing the perpetrator to be executed. Because murder is considered a private matter between the perpetrator and the victim's family, the state may not commute a qesas-e-nafs sentence. The conviction, but not the sentence, can be appealed. Judges may only recommend the course of action the family takes, and in many cases ask the family to forgive the murderer.\n\nIn many cases, judges try to persuade the family to forgive the murderer, even at times pressuring them to do so. Often, a murder execution is delayed for five years after the murder was committed in order to persuade the family to exercise forgiveness, and allow time for the murderer to pay \"diyya\". If pardoned, the perpetrator still faces criminal penalties through the tazir code. Anybody who commits intentional murder must face a minimum of 2–3 years in prison, which is usually about the same time it takes to pay the diyya. Usually, longer sentences are given, and if other crimes were committed along with the murder, the person will serve a longer prison sentence, possibly even up to life imprisonment.\n\nThe perpetrator may be convicted for murder in the case of a confession, if there are two witnesses to the crime, if there are 50 sworn testimonies, and/or if one or more people testifies 50 times against the defendant. However, in practice, judges also allow circumstantial evidence.\n\nQesas cannot be applied in cases of self-defense or manslaughter, where the proof requirements above are not met, to minors (age 15 for boys, 9 for girls prior to 2008; after 2008, age 18 in most cases), to those declared insane, in a case where the victim is the perpetrator's spouse or spouse's lover and the perpetrator caught the spouse committing adultery, or in the case of a father murdering his children. In these cases, the perpetrator is punished through a tazir discretionary sentence, ranging from 2 years to life in prison. Sometimes the death penalty can be used regardless if the person has been found guilty of \"moharebeh\" (\"spreading corruption on the earth\"). Crimes of passion may not always be recognized as a legitimate defense, with the exception of a spouse caught committing adultery (punishable by imprisonment). People who murder in self-defense can usually be released after paying blood money to the victim's family, and the courts would usually help to facilitate that.\n\nIn the case of manslaughter or insufficient proof, the perpetrator is not required to pay diyya. If a murderer was working under someone else's orders and can prove it, they may receive a tazir punishment such as imprisonment, fines and/or whipping, but sometimes even death. In these cases, the person(s) who ordered the killing are subject to qesas or diyyeh. If a woman is killed carrying an unborn child after the first trimester, it is considered the murder of two people.\n\nIf the family demands retribution, they cannot receive diyya, although they may receive some minor civil restitution. Most cases (2/3) are resolved through diyya. Qesas executions are a minority of executions in Iran, consisting of 20–30% (although those executed for other crimes may have committed murder previously).\n\nDiyya tables are set every year by the Iranian government. Diyya is equivalent to the price of 100 camels, and must be paid in cash. Diyya is doubled if the intentional murder is committed during the holy months Ramadan and Muharram. However, in practice, diyya is negotiated between the parties and they generally settle for more or less diyyeh than the official amount. If the person cannot pay diyya, he would be held in prison until the amount is paid, even if his regular discretionary prison sentence ends. Usually his/her family/friends are expected to help raise the amount, or in some cases the state can pay for it.\n\nAccording to the official tables, the family of a female victim receives half the amount of diyya due to the family of a man (though the amount is equal in accidental death cases); however, in practice, diyyeh is negotiated and usually the amount is equal, especially in recent years.\n\nBefore 2004, non-Muslims would receive half the diyya of a Muslim, but the law was changed to give Muslims and non-Muslims equal diyya.\n\nIn Islamic criminal jurisprudence, a tazir crime is a crime that is punished according to a judge's discretion. A \"deterrent crime\" is a crime with a fixed sentence. Tazir punishments should generally be less severe. There are no strict proof requirements as there are for hadd. Tazir and deterrent crimes are often comparable to a misdemeanor, though not in cases where the crime is deemed to be equal to a moharebeh/mofsed-fel-arz crime (see above).\n\nArms smuggling is punishable by death or life in prison if the offense is deemed to be at the level of \"moharebeh\". Possession, sale, and/or use of illegal military weapons may be punishable by death or life in prison.\n\nHuman trafficking is punishable by death or life in prison if the trafficked person was under 18 years of age or if rape, murder, or financial exploitation occurred. Operation of prostitution rings is also punishable by death, as well as \"making large-scale pornographic websites\". A person operating a blog, website, or any type of internet application that is deemed to spread \"corruption\", \"insulting of Islam\", \"terrorism/violence\", or \"treason\" may be punishable by death. In most cases, lesser penalties are given.\n\nLarge scale fraud or counterfeiting if enough to disrupt the \"financial stability of the Islamic Republic\", or \"intentionally aimed at undermining the government\" is punishable by death or life in prison if at the level of \"mofsed-fel-arz\". In addition, people who act against the Islamic Republic or are convicted of terrorism can be sentenced to death for moharebeh/mofsed-fel-arz.\n\nAccording to Iran's Anti-Narcotics Law, possession of narcotics is a felony punishable by death or life imprisonment if:\n\n\nIn drug cases, a record of the amount of drugs a person is caught with is kept, so that the information is available in the event of a later arrest. Once a certain cumulative amount above is reached, the person is sentenced to the death penalty or life imprisonment. The offense should be deemed tantamount to \"mofsede-fel-arz\" in order for the perpetrator to be executed.\n\nDrug crimes, smuggling, and crimes against the stability of the country are tried in the Revolutionary Court system, a special court that handles such cases relating to national security. In 2011, the right of appeal was revoked for certain drug crimes, and instead the case must be appealed to the Prosecutor-General of Iran. Mitigating factors allow the judge to give a lesser penalty of life imprisonment (which can be decreased upon appeal). In practice, the majority of dealers get a prison sentence on first offense, but on the second or third offense, they are executed or sentenced to life imprisonment. In armed drug smuggling cases, the prisoner often must serve a prison sentence prior to execution (typically 5–10 years). Most executed drug dealers have been implicated in other crimes at some point (including theft, robbery, rape, and murder).\n\nIran is currently fighting a major drug war on its provinces in the east, primarily Sistan and Baluchistan province and parts of Khorasan province. Since Iran borders Afghanistan and Pakistan, the two largest opium-producing countries in the world, Iran is a major trafficking route to Europe and the west. Since 2000 up to 2,000 Iranian soldiers have died fighting armed drug cartels and smugglers. Most of Iran's executions are related to drug trafficking—a recent announcement by the judiciary said that 74% of executions in Iran were drug-related. In 2015, according to Iran's vice-president for women and family affairs, Shahindokht Molaverdi, in an unnamed village in Sistan and Baluchistan every adult male was executed on drugs charges.\n\nIn 2016 lawmakers proposed a bill to end capital punishment for drug offences. A justice minister also supported the proposal.\n\nHadd crimes are a class of crime laid down in the Koran and considered to be comparable to felonies. Some of these laws are part of Iran's penal code, while others are not. Their punishments are laid down in the Koran and Hadith. Hadd crimes must be proven by confession, two witnesses (four witnesses in the case of adultery), or in rare cases, by \"judge's knowledge\" (where, based on available evidence, the defendant's guilt is extremely obvious). If the prosecution cannot provide the proof for a hadd crime, it is tried as a lesser tazir crime. The application of hadd crimes differ significantly in Iran from what is prescribed by classical Sharia. Conviction for these require a high proof rate, and cannot be given when there is any reasonable doubt. All hadd crimes also have a tazir penalty, and in most cases the perpetrator is sentenced to the tazir penalty. If a perpetrator is repentant, the hadd punishment could be pardoned.\n\nIn the majority of cases, people who commit a hadd offensive would be given tazir punishments such as imprisonment or fines, but in some serious cases the hadd punishment could be given in addition to it.\n\nMoharebeh (waging war against God or people) is a crime where a weapon is used with violence to \"create fear or disruption against national security and citizens\", such as armed robbery, kidnapping and treason. It is punishable by death or imprisonment, usually for life. In cases of armed robbery/kidnapping (or even rape), the death penalty is usually applied if a person died as a result of the perpetrator's actions, or public order was compromised.\n\nSimilarly a court could find that if a person's crimes (of any type) were heinous enough, and the person is a continued threat to society, they are guilty of \"Mofsede-Fel-Arz\" (spreading corruption on the earth), which is a related crime and punishable by death/imprisonment.\n\nHowever, moharebeh and mofsede-fel-arz are famous for being political charges disguised as religious crimes. These are often levied against those involved in espionage, treason, activism, opposition to the government, or terrorism. In 2008, \"operation of prostitution rings\" and \"running pornographic websites/businesses\" were added to the list. Large scale economic crimes that disrupt the economy are also punishable by death if the perpetrator is found guilty of mofsede-fel-arz. Belonging to an armed anti-regime opposition group or being part of \"riotous disturbances\"/ \"armed acts\" against the state are punishable by death or imprisonment if the perpetrator is found guilty of moharebeh.\n\nAdultery (zina-e-mohsen) is punishable by 100 lashes for unmarried people and by death on the fourth offense. It is punishable by death by stoning (under moratorium since 2002, officially replaced in 2012, by an unspecified punishment) for married people and in all cases of incest. If an unmarried non-Muslim male has sexual relations with a Muslim female, the non-Muslim male will be put to death. Four witnesses (rather than two witnesses) are required to prove adultery, the person must confess four times, or they must be convicted by judge's knowledge (through definite circumstantial evidence). If the person confesses twice and is \"repentant\" or the victim's family forgives the adulterer, the judge can give a tazir sentence of 99 lashes instead, or imprisonment. Convictions and executions for this crime are extremely rare, usually only carried out in the case of death and rare even then.\n\nBetween 1979 and 2002, 40–76 adultery/incest executions (by stoning) were recorded for both men and women. After 2002, allegedly eight men were stoned to death and one woman hanged. Even if the actual numbers are higher, the punishment is nonetheless very rare especially in proportion to confirmed cases of adultery. The punishment is given mostly in aggravated circumstances when the four witnesses or a confession is available and the spouse died. Most adulterers go unpunished, or receive a lighter sentence. Divorce is usually the most common method in dealing with adultery.\n\nRape (zina-be-onf) is related to adultery, has the same proof requirements, and is punishable by death by hanging. In Iran, for most part, convictions are made either by confession or \"judge's knowledge\", rather than witnesses. 10–15% of executions in Iran are for rape.\n\nIn many cases the rape victim settles the case by accepting compensation (jirah) in exchange for withdrawing the charges or forgiving the rapist. This is similar to diyyeh, but equal to a woman's dowry. A woman can also receive diyya for injuries sustained. Normally the rapist still faces tazir penalties, such as 100 lashes and jail time for immoral acts, and often faces further penalties for other crimes committed alongside the rape, such as kidnapping, assault, and disruption of public order.\n\nSodomy (lavat) is punishable by death. The judge can determine the type of death, but in practice it is always hanging. The proof requirements are the same as for adultery and such sentences are very rare. If one of the consenting participants was under 18, the punishment is 100 lashes for the minor. If the guilty is repentant, they generally receive a reduced sentence of 99 lashes. All people convicted of sodomy spend one year in prison in addition, and can be sentenced to more prison time at the judge's discretion. Few people are sentenced to death for sodomy, but prior to 2012, both partners could receive the death penalty.\n\nSodomy rape (lavat-be-onf) is punishable by death for the rapist. Proof requirements and procedure are the same as regular rape. Most sodomy executions are for rape, not consensual sodomy.\n\nApostasy (murrtaad) is not codified in the penal code, but is nevertheless subject to prosecution by Iranian courts, due to the primary role of Sharia in the legal system. Some two hundred members of the Baha'i religion, an indigenous but proscribed form of apostasy, have been hanged, while many have been and are imprisoned. A range of serious and petty sanctions are routinely placed on the Baha'i community, including a ban on young adherents attending university. The death sentence could be given for a male, though the last such execution was in 1990. A case is Youcef Nadarkhani, an Iranian Christian Pastor sentenced to death for apostasy 21–22 September 2010 in the province of Gilan, but the sentence has not been carried out. For women, the maximum sentence is life in prison.\n\nBlasphemy (sabb-al-nabi) of the Prophet Muhammad, his daughter, or his family is a crime in Iran, and a blasphemer would be found guilty of apostasy as well by default. Blasphemy is punishable by death or imprisonment.\n\nFor all other hadd crimes, the fourth offense would be a capital offense, unless the person repents. \nOther hadd crimes include incest, theft (serghat-e-haddi), lesbianism (mosahegheh), false accusation of sex crimes (ghazf), pimping (ghavvadi), and drunkenness (shurb-e-khamr). However, for all but the most serious cases the crime is punished through the tazir code and the judge gives a discretionary sentence.\n\nConsumption of alcohol (one glass) is punished by 80 lashes, but repeated offences may lead to death penalty although rarely exercised. In 2012, two men were sentenced to death after a third offense in Khorasan. The sentence was confirmed by the Supreme Court, but it may be commuted to flogging if the convicted repent.\nIt is uncertain if it also applies to drug crimes. Most drinking cases are settled through tazir punishments (e.g. imprisonment and/or fines) rather than whipping.\n\nThe execution of minors in Iran has been a major issue for human rights groups and the Western media. As of May 2009, there were at least 137 known juvenile offenders awaiting execution in Iran, but the total number could be much higher as many death penalty cases in Iran are believed to go unreported. Of the 43 child offenders recorded as having been executed since 1990, 11 were still under the age of 18 at the time of their execution while the others were either kept on death row until they had reached 18 or were convicted and sentenced after reaching that age. In 2006, a teenage girl of the age of 16, Atefah Sahaaleh, was sentenced to death, and executed two weeks later by hanging in a public square for the charges of adultery and \"crimes against chastity\". Sentenced while underage, include at least one at 13-year-old (executed when 21 years old) and another at 14-year-old (executed when 18 years old).\n\nDespite signing the Convention on the Rights of the Child, Iran, according to human rights groups, is the world's largest executioner of juvenile offenders. This has been ascribed to the difference in definition of a \"minor\" between non-Muslim and (some) Muslim countries. Article 49 of the Islamic Penal Code in Iran defines a child as \"someone who has not reached the age of puberty (bulugh) as stipulated by Islamic law and as specified in the 1991 Civil Code as 15 lunar years for boys and nine lunar years for girls. Since 1995, Iran's Supreme Court has commuted non-murder death sentences to 2–8 years in prison.\n\nIn February 2012, Iran adopted a new penal code, which officially banned the death penalty for minors under the age of 18 in favor of \"social penalties\" and \"educational programs\". Minors who commit murder when aged 15–18 can still receive the death penalty in rare cases if the judge is confident that the perpetrator had reached full adult mental development at the time of the crime and that it was committed intentionally with a well thought-out plan. For minors by default and for young adults (older than 18) with low mental development, execution is not used and the perpetrator is prosecuted in a juvenile court. Iran uses the lunar Islamic calendar to determine the age of criminal responsibility, which is shorter than the standard solar calendar, so as a result some people sentenced to death at the age of 18 would be 17 years old in solar calendar years.\n\nAlthough Iran is the focus of juvenile executions, other countries such as Sudan and Saudi Arabia legally carry them out, while others such as China, Nigeria, and Pakistan allegedly carry them out illegally with little focus from international organizations. Until 2005, some US states also carried out juvenile executions (see Roper v. Simmons).\n\nHanging is the only common method of execution in 21st-century Iran, usually carried out in prison.\n\nCompared to other countries that use hanging (such as Japan or Malaysia) with a complex gallows designed to drop the condemned and break the neck, Iran's gallows are very simple and inexpensive. They consist only of a frame and a stool, with some stools able to hold up to seven people at a time and having wheels. Public executions are usually carried out by a mobile crane. Sometimes the victim is suspended from the crane, but more often the crane is used as a gallows and the person is pulled off of a stool (see Upright jerker). Iranian nooses are thick, with 7–10 knotted coils, and are often made of blue plastic rope with little to no drop. Death is caused by strangulation and carotid reflex (where blood vessels to the head are cut off), taking 10–20 minutes. In most cases the condemned loses consciousness quickly, as seen in most videos of Iranian executions.\n\nFamous hangings in Iran include Sheikh Fazlollah Nouri in 1908, and serial killer Mohammed Bijeh the \"Desert Vampire\", who raped and murdered 17 boys in 2005. At dawn on 27 July 2007, 29 men were hanged in Evin Prison on various charges of murder and drug trafficking. In 2010, Shahla Jahed was hanged in Tehran for the 2002 murder of the wife of Iran footballer Nasser Mohammadkhani. In 2006, a teenage girl of the age of 16, Atefah Sahaaleh, was sentenced to death, and executed two weeks later by hanging in a public square for the charges of adultery and \"crimes against chastity\". In 2009, a public execution of two men in Sirjan for armed robbery was broken up when relatives stormed the gallows and cut the men down while still alive; they were later recaptured and hanged until dead. A video of the incident was posted on the Internet\n\nThe firing squad is legal, but seldom used in Iran today. Historically it was used for military and political crimes. In 1974 under the Shah's regime, Marxist activists Khosrow Golesorkhi and Keramat Daneshian were executed by firing squad on charges of conspiring to kidnap Reza Pahlavi, the Crown Prince of Iran. They were shot after a televised trial in Tehran. This case was one of the big events that turned public opinion against the Shah. During the reign of the Shah, 1,000 or more people were sentenced to death for crimes against the government, mostly by firing squad after conviction by a special SAVAK military tribunal. After the 1953 coup, scores of Communists were executed. Many known figures and dissidents also died under suspicious circumstances, and were possibly murdered by SAVAK (such as wrestler Gholam-Reza Takhti, Dr. Ali Shariati, and Ayatollah Khomeini's son Mostapha Khomeini). Common criminals were executed mostly by hanging in this period.\n\nIn the years after the Islamic Revolution of 1979, thousands of people were sentenced to be shot for political offenses, drug trafficking, and crimes against the Islamic Republic by the newly established Revolutionary Courts. These included many of the Shah's former ministers such as former Prime Minister Amir Abbas Hoveida, head of SAVAK General Nematollah Nassiri. By 1980, over 700 people had been shot. Many of the members of the former regime are suspected to have been unjustly executed in biased trials. A campaign against drug trafficking resulted in the executions of many for drug possession, including addicts, often based on minimal evidence. Some of these people were also alleged opponents of the regime. Many executions also took place after the Kurdistan revolt of 1979–80.\n\nWhile the number of executions had dropped by 1980, after the start of the Iran-Iraq War a crackdown on dissidents, political opponents, and common criminals was responsible for another increase in executions. From 1981–1984, after Mujahedeen-e-Khalq bombings killing many government officials, a crackdown against opponents and terrorist groups such as the Mujahedeen-e-Khalq organization resulted in the execution of hundreds or possibly thousands of people. Many others were hanged or shot for other crimes such as adultery, robbery, murder, and drug trafficking.\n\nIn 1982, a purge of the communists in Iran (such as the Tudeh Party) resulted in executions of the party's leaders and some members on charges of spying for the Soviet Union. Political executions continued on a lesser scale. When the Islamic Penal Code of Iran was adopted in 1982, ordinary crimes began to be punished by hanging once again by regular, non-Revolutionary courts. Political opponents continued to be shot by Revolutionary Courts, but on a lesser scale.\n\nIn 1988, after an invasion by the Mujahideen-e-Khalq organization (see Operation Mersad), the government secretly executed 2,000–4,000 political prisoners, many former members or sympathizers of the Mujahedeen group, former communists, and other dissidents. Those executed had all renounced their former ties to their old opposition organizations and many were about to finish their prison sentences when they were suddenly and secretly executed. The charges were \"moharebeh\" or apostasy, seen by critics as a gross example of using a religious charge for political reasons. They were executed by hanging for most part, but a few were executed by firing squad.\n\nSince 1988, political executions have been less common, although extrajudicial killing of high-profile regime opponents continued until 1998, such as the Chain murders. Since the late 1980s, virtually all executions have been carried out by hanging, both political or criminal. \n\nCritics of the Revolutionary Courts complained about the process, stating that the trials lacked defense attorneys, were too short (often lasting hours, even minutes), and could not be appealed and that there was a lack of evidence and convictions were often based on strong rumors, with political opponents being unjustly prosecuted and sentences. Critics also complained that the judges were biased, unfair, too rigid, used the death sentence much too often, and applied the death penalty to undeserving people. There were also criticisms of confessions obtained through torture. When asked what if a person was wrongfully executed, one of the judges said that an innocent person \"Would receive a reward by God in heaven\", so little care was taken to see if the accused were actually guilty.\n\nAyatollah Khomeini himself was sentenced to death by firing squad for treason against the Shah in 1964, by a military court, but his sentence was commuted to exile in Iraq (General Hassan Pakravan, another head of SAVAK who helped commute Khomeini's sentence, was one of the first shot upon Khomeini's return). \n\nOne of the most famous \"hanging\" judges in Iran was a cleric, Sadegh Khalkhali, the first head of the Revolutionary Court, who sentenced drug traffickers and former members of the Shah's government alike to be shot. He personally sentenced 800–2,000 people to death. In 1980, Jahangir Razmi won the Pulitzer Prize for his famous photo \"Firing Squad in Iran\", which showed seven Kurds and two Shah's policemen being executed minutes after being convicted for \"terrorism and crimes against God\" by Khalkhali in the airport in Sanandaj, during a revolt by Kurdish armed groups. Their trial lasted 30 minutes.\n\nAfter many years of not being used, the firing squad was last used in 2008, to execute a man convicted of raping 17 children, according to the Fars News Agency.\n\nIndividuals sentenced to stoning are placed in a stoning pit, buried to the neck (women) or waist (men) and others hurl stones at them until they escape the stoning pit, are incapacitated, or are dead, but because men (unlike women) are only buried to the waist, men infrequently but occasionally do escape the stoning pit, which terminates the penalty. Stoning to death was blocked as legal punishment by Khomeini's order in 1981. In 2012, it officially was removed from the code and replaced by an unspecified death penalty. In theory, it could still be used as a punishment because the penal code allows judges to impose sentencing according to \"valid Islamic sources\" and Sharia punishments, although it is unlikely due to the fact it would require high burdens of evidence.\n\nFollowing vociferous domestic and international controversy over stoning in the early years of the Islamic Republic, the government placed a moratorium on stoning in 2002. In January 2005, the Iranian judiciary spokesman Jamal Karimirad was quoted as saying, \"Stoning has been dropped from the penal code for a long time, and in the Islamic republic, we do not see such punishments being carried out\", further adding that if stoning sentences were passed by lower courts, they were overruled by higher courts and \"no such verdicts have been carried out.\" In 2007 and 2009, Western organizations claimed the moratorium was broken in two cases for men being stoned for adultery.\n\nIn 2008, Iran's judiciary scrapped stoning in draft legislation submitted to parliament for approval. In August 2010, Iran Human Rights reported that seven stoning executions had been carried out over the past four years, and that 14 or more sentences of death by stoning (for 11 women and three men) were pending. In 2010, a highly publicized sentence of death by stoning was altered under international pressure. The 2012 penal code issued an unspecificed punishment for stoning, allowing judges to divert to other execution methods in case stoning would not be carried out. Sentences to death by stoning have continued to be issued as late as 2015.\n\nIran may have used this form of execution for homosexuality. According to Amnesty International in 2008, Tayyeb Karimi and Yazdan were convicted of abduction, rape and theft and sentenced to death by a judge in Shiraz, Fars province, southern Iran, in May 2007. They were to be thrown off a cliff or from a great height. The judge ordered that they be executed in the way described. Four other men have been sentenced to 100 lashes each for their involvement in the same crimes.\n\nAlthough, by law, all executions must take place in \"public\", the place is not specified. In most cases, executions take place in the main prison of the county or province where the crime took place, in front of witnesses (family, prosecutors, other prisoners).\n\nCriminals from Tehran are hanged in Evin Prison (and according to some reports in Ghezel Hesar Prison in some cases). In the Karaj area, Gohardasht Prison carries out executions. Tehran's Qasr Prison also conducted executions until it closed in 2005. In Mashhad, executions are carried out in Vakilabad Prison. The gallows are typically located in a large indoor shed, or in a remote courtyard.\n\n1–2 days prior to the execution, the prisoner is informed of their execution date and moved to solitary confinement. In murder cases (and often rape cases), both the victim's and prisoner's family are required to be there by law, in order to keep the possibility of a forgiveness settlement open. In non-murder executions, sometimes the prisoner's family is informed after the fact. Usually the condemned may see relatives prior to the execution. The prisoner's attorney may also attend the execution.\n\nExecutions are carried out at 4 am local time, just before the call for morning salat (prayer). When the platform is moved away, the condemned dies of strangulation and loss of blood to the brain. Usually they fall unconscious within seconds. If the condemned struggles after being released, the prison guards will typically pull down on the rope to speed up the death.\n\nIn the case of a murder, the victim's next of kin is allowed to pull the stool out from under the condemned. There have been occasions where the victim's family pardoned the murderer right at the foot of the gallows. A few times, the person was pardoned and cut down from the gallows after surviving the hanging process.\n\nPublic executions in Iran are less common, sometimes applied to those found guilty of crimes such as gang rape, child murder, murder during an armed robbery, or massive drug trafficking. Public executions were restricted between the 1920s and 1950s for most part, but became common after the Islamic Revolution, usually carried out from mobile cranes. In 2008, Iran banned public execution; however, the moratorium has not gone into effect as of 2011 according to amnesty international. They take place when the prosecutor requests and the judge accepts that since the criminal's crimes were so terrible they \"caused public outrage\", the criminal must die at the spot where the crime was committed. The Supreme Court must also approve the sentence. It is estimated that about 5–10% of executions are carried out in public, usually around 6 am local time. \nIn 2002, the \"Black Vultures\", the nickname of a group of five men who assaulted and gang raped dozens of women in northern Tehran, were hanged in public from cranes, two in the main bus terminal and three in the main square of Lavizan district.\n\nOn 2 August 2007, Maijid and Hossein Kavousifar were hanged in downtown Tehran for murdering a judge, as well as shooting and killing two innocent bystanders during an earlier bank robbery. Majid was unrepentant of his crime and laughed into the cameras before he was hanged. They were executed at the intersection where they murdered Judge Hassan Moghaddas. A video of him and other criminals describing their crimes was also posted on YouTube.\n\nOn 5 January 2011, a man only identified by Iranian media as \"Yaghub\" was hanged in the main square of the Sa'adat Abad district in Tehran, where he had in October 2010 murdered a man by repeatedly stabbing him and then stood over the victim while he bled to death threatening to kill anyone who intervened. The murder was recorded on a mobile phone.\n\n\nIn July 2005, the Iranian Student News Agency covered the execution of Mahmoud Asgari and Ayaz Marhoni in Mashhad who as initially reported by Iranian sources were executed for committing homosexual acts, however, when disturbing photos of the hanging were widely distributed around the Internet and drew international attention and condemnation it resulted in subsequent allegations by the Iranian regime that they were executed for the rape of a 13-year-old boy. The executions of the two teenagers divided the human rights community over whether it was a gay issue, but all human rights groups condemned the hangings as they were for crimes allegedly committed when the boys were minors. The initial report from the Iranian Student News Agency, a government press agency, had stated that they were hanged for sodomizing and raping a 13-year-old boy (his father was interviewed about the case in the local Mashad newspaper). Online gay advocacy groups such as OutRage! asserted that they were hanged for being homosexuals; other groups, in light of evidence that the teenagers were convicted of rape, emphasized that the executions were a violation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (Iran is a signatory to both), which prohibit the execution of minors. After the international outcry, the Iranian government repeated once again that the hangings were for raping the boy. Human Rights Watch, while not agreeing with the brutality of the hangings, stated it was \"deeply disturbed about the apparent indifference of many people to the alleged rape of a 13-year-old\". However, others still allege that they were hanged for being gay. Later that year, another two young men, referred to in the media by their first names, Mokhtar and Ali, were hanged in the northern city of Gorgan for lavat (sodomy).\n\nIn 2010, Arash Rahmanipour and Mohammad-Reza Ali Zamani were hanged in Tehran for moharebeh, alleged terrorism, and being a member of the banned Kingdom Assembly of Iran. When they were executed, their execution was falsely reported as being connected to the 2009 election protests, possibly in order to intimidate the opposition, despite their arrest months before the election. Abdolreza Ghanbari's moharebeh death sentence for protesting in the 2009 Ashura protests was upheld in March 2012, meaning that his execution could be carried out at any time. In 2012, 5 Ahwazi Arabs were hanged in retaliation for the alleged death of a policeman during riots a year before. In 2011, when the riots originally took place, 9 men were hanged in retaliation for alleged \"deaths and rapes\" during the riots, three of them in public. One of them was 16 years old when hanged.\n\nIn 2011, two policemen were hanged in Tehran for beating to death three protesters in the Kahrizak Detention Center during the 2009 election protests. However, some high-level officials were protected from prosecution for the murders.\n\nIn 2014, Reyhaneh Jabbari was hanged for killing a man she alleged was trying to sexually abuse her, despite an international campaign that sought to avoid her execution.\n\nOn 3 May 2016, Reza Hosseini, 34, was executed in Ghezel Hesar prison on alleged drug charges after a revolutionary court trial that lasted a couple of minutes. His wife insists Hosseini was innocent. She says Hosseini was arrested because he got into an altercation with the authorities, and the drugs were actually discovered by authorities in another place. Hosseini never pleaded guilty. At that Judge Tayerani replied: \"If you are innocent, then you will go to heaven after you are hanged.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "151328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=151328", "title": "Charles the Bold", "text": "Charles the Bold\n\nCharles the Bold (also translated as Charles the Reckless) (, , 10 November 1433 – 5 January 1477), baptised Charles Martin, was Duke of Burgundy from 1467 to 1477. He was the last Duke of Burgundy from the House of Valois.\n\nHis early death at the Battle of Nancy at the hands of Swiss mercenaries fighting for René II, Duke of Lorraine, was of great consequence in European history. The Burgundian domains, long wedged between the growing powers of France and the Habsburg Empire, were divided, but the precise disposition of the vast and disparate territorial possessions involved was disputed among the European powers for centuries.\n\nCharles the Bold was born in Dijon, the son of Philip the Good and Isabella of Portugal. Before the death of his father in 1467, he bore the title of Count of Charolais; afterwards, he assumed all of his father's titles, including that of \"Grand Duke of the West\". He was also made a Knight of the Golden Fleece just twenty days after his birth, invested by Charles I, Count of Nevers, and the seigneur de Croÿ.\n\nCharles was brought up under the direction of Jean d'Auxy and early showed great application alike to academic studies and warlike exercises. His father's court was the most extravagant in Europe at the time, and a centre for the arts and commerce. While he was growing up, Charles witnessed his father's efforts to unite his far-flung and ethnically diverse dominions into a single state, and his own later efforts centered on continuing and securing his father's successes in this endeavor.\n\nIn 1440, at the age of seven, Charles was married to Catherine, daughter of King Charles VII of France and sister of the Dauphin (later King Louis XI). She was five years older than her husband, and she died in 1446 at the age of 18. They had no children.\n\nIn 1454, at the age of 21, Charles married a second time. He wanted to marry a daughter of his distant cousin Richard Plantagenet, 3rd Duke of York (a sister of Kings Edward IV and Richard III of England), but under terms of the Treaty of Arras of 1435, he was required to marry a French princess. His father chose Isabella of Bourbon, who was three years younger than he was. Isabella was the daughter of Philip the Good's sister Agnes and a very distant cousin of Charles VII of France. Isabella died in 1465. Their daughter Mary of Burgundy was Charles' only surviving child; she inherited all the Burgundian domains before her marriage to Maximilian of Habsburg, the son of Holy Roman Emperor Frederick III.\n\nCharles was on friendly terms with his brother-in-law Louis, the Dauphin of France, who had been a refugee at the court of Burgundy from 1456 until he succeeded his father as king of France in 1461. But Louis began to pursue some of the same policies as his father, for example Louis's later repurchase of the towns on the Somme River that Louis's father had ceded in 1435 to Charles's father in the Treaty of Arras, which Charles viewed with chagrin. When his father's failing health enabled him to assume the reins of government (which Philip relinquished to him by an act of 12 April 1465), he initiated a policy of hostility toward Louis XI that led to the Burgundian Wars, and he became one of the principal leaders of the League of the Public Weal, an alliance of west European nobles opposed to policies of Louis XI that sought to centralize the royal authority within France.\n\nFor his third wife, Charles was offered the hand of Louis XI's daughter Anne. The wife he ultimately chose, however, was his second cousin Margaret of York (who was also a great-grandchild of John of Gaunt). Upon the death of his father in 1467, Charles was no longer bound by the terms of the Treaty of Arras, and he decided to ally himself with Burgundy's old ally England. Louis did his best to prevent or delay the marriage with Margaret (he even sent French ships to waylay her as she sailed to Sluys), but in the summer of 1468, it was celebrated sumptuously at Bruges, and Charles was made a Knight of the Garter. The couple had no children, but Margaret devoted herself to her stepdaughter Mary. After Mary's death many years later, she kept Mary's two infant children as long as she was allowed.\n\nOn 12 April 1465, Philip relinquished control of the government of his domains to Charles, who spent the next summer prosecuting the War of the Public Weal against Louis XI. Charles was left master of the field at the Battle of Montlhéry on 13 July 1465, but this neither prevented the king from re-entering Paris nor did it assure Charles of a decisive victory. He succeeded, however, in forcing upon Louis the Treaty of Conflans of 4 October 1465, by which the king restored to him certain towns on the Somme River, the counties of Boulogne and Guînes, and various other small territories. During the negotiations for the treaty, his wife Isabella died suddenly at Les Quesnoy on 25 September, making a political marriage suddenly possible. As part of the treaty, Louis promised him the hand of his infant daughter Anne, with the territories of Champagne and Ponthieu as a dowry, but no marriage ever took place. In the meanwhile, Charles obtained the surrender of Ponthieu.\n\nCharles' concentration on the affairs of France was diverted by the Revolt of Liège against his father and the bishop of Liège (Louis of Bourbon) and a desire to punish the town of Dinant in the province of Namur. During the wars of the summer of 1465, Dinant celebrated a false rumour that Charles had been defeated at Montlhéry by burning him in effigy and chanting that he was the bastard child of his mother Isabella of Portugal and John of Heinsburg, the previous Bishop of Liège (d. 1455). On 25 August 1466, Charles marched into Dinant, determined to avenge this slur on the honour of his mother, and sacked the city, killing every man, woman and child within. After the death of Charles' father Philip the Good in 1467, the Bishopric of Liège renewed hostilities, but was defeated by Charles at the Battle of Brustem. Charles made a victorious entry into Liège, dismantled its walls and stripped the city of some of its privileges.\n\nAlarmed by the early successes of the new Duke of Burgundy and anxious to settle various questions relating to the execution of the Treaty of Conflans, Louis XI requested a meeting with Charles and daringly placed himself in his hands in the town of Péronne in Picardy in October 1468. In the course of the negotiations, the duke was informed of a fresh revolt of the Bishopric of Liège secretly fomented by Louis as part of the Liège Wars. After deliberating for four days on the best way to deal with his adversary, who had foolishly placed himself at his mercy, Charles decided to respect the promise he had given to guarantee Louis's safety and to negotiate with him. At the same time, he forced Louis to assist him in quelling the revolt in Liège. The town was captured and many inhabitants were massacred. Louis chose not to intervene on behalf of his former allies.\n\nAt the expiry of the one year's truce that followed the Treaty of Péronne, the French king accused Charles of treason, cited him to appear before the parlement, and seized some of the towns on the Somme in 1471. The duke retaliated by invading France with a large army; he took possession of Nesle and massacred its inhabitants. He failed, however, in an attack on Beauvais and had to content himself with laying waste to the countryside as far as Rouen. He eventually withdrew without attaining any useful result.\n\nCharles pursued domestic policies that assisted the growth of his military establishment. To this end, he relinquished at least some of the extravagance that had characterized the court of Burgundy under his father, if not the magnificence of ceremonial events. Since the beginning of his reign, he employed himself in reorganizing his army and the administration of his territories. While retaining the principles of feudal recruiting, he endeavored to establish a system of rigid discipline among his troops that was strengthened by the employment of foreign mercenaries, particularly Englishmen and Italians, and the augmentation of his artillery. The economic power that Charles inherited from Philip would lead to an independent judicial system, a sophisticated administration, and the establishment of local estates.\n\nCharles constantly sought to expand the territories under his control. In 1469, Archduke Sigismund of Austria sold him the County of Ferrette, the Landgraviate of Alsace, and some other towns, reserving to himself the right to repurchase.\n\nIn 1472–1473, Charles bought the reversion of the Duchy of Guelders (i.e. the right to succeed to it) from its duke Arnold, whom he had supported against the rebellion of his son. Not content with being \"the Grand Duke of the West,\" he conceived the project of forming a kingdom of Burgundy or Arles with himself as independent sovereign and even persuaded the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick III to assent to crown him a king at Trier. The ceremony, however, did not take place owing to the emperor's precipitate flight by night in September 1473, which was occasioned by his displeasure at the duke's ambitions.\n\nAt the close of 1473, the duchy of Burgundy was anchored in France and extended to the edges of the Netherlands. This made Charles the Bold one of the wealthiest and most powerful nobles in Europe. Indeed, his landholdings and revenue base rivalled those of many of the royal families.\n\nIn the year 1474, Charles began to involve himself in the series of political struggles that would ultimately bring about his downfall. He first came into conflict with the Archduke Sigismund of Austria, to whom he refused to restore his possessions in Alsace for the stipulated sum. Then, he quarreled with the Swiss, who supported the free towns in the Upper Rhine in their revolt against the tyranny of the ducal governor Peter von Hagenbach (who was condemned by a special international tribunal and executed on 9 May 1474). Finally, he antagonized René II, Duke of Lorraine, with whom he disputed the succession in the Duchy of Lorraine, which bordered many of his territories. All of these enemies readily joined forces against their common adversary Charles.\n\nCharles suffered a first rebuff in endeavouring to protect his kinsman Ruprecht of the Palatinate, Archbishop of Cologne, against his rebel subjects. He spent ten months (July 1474 – June 1475) besieging the little town of Neuss on the Rhine (the Siege of Neuss), but was compelled by the approach of a powerful imperial army to raise the siege. Moreover, the expedition he had persuaded his brother-in-law Edward IV of England to undertake against Louis XI was stopped by the Treaty of Picquigny of 29 August 1475. He was more successful in Lorraine, where he seized Nancy on 30 November 1475.\n\nFrom Nancy he marched against the Swiss. He saw fit to hang or drown the garrison of Grandson in spite of its capitulation. Grandson was a possession of Jacques of Savoy, Count of Romont, a close ally of Charles, that had been captured recently by the forces of the Swiss Confederacy. Some days later, on 2 March 1476, Charles was attacked outside the village of Concise by the confederate army in the Battle of Grandson and suffered a shameful defeat; he was compelled to flee with a handful of attendants and abandon his artillery along with an immense booty (including his silver bath).\n\nCharles succeeded in raising a fresh army of 30,000 men that he used to fight the Morat on 22 June 1476. He was again defeated by the Swiss army, which was assisted by the cavalry of the Duke of Lorraine. On this occasion, unlike the debacle at Grandson, little booty was lost, but Charles did lose about one third of his entire army. The defeated soldiers were pushed into the nearby lake, where they were drowned or shot at while trying to swim to safety on the opposite shore. On 6 October, Charles lost Nancy, which the Duke of Lorraine was able to recover.\n\nMaking a last effort, Charles formed a new army and arrived in the dead of winter before the walls of Nancy. Having lost many of his troops through the severe cold, it was with only a few thousand men that he met the joint forces of the Lorrainers and the Swiss, who had come to the relief of the town, at the Battle of Nancy (5 January 1477). He himself perished in the fight, his naked and disfigured body being discovered some days afterward frozen in the nearby river. Charles' head had been cleft in two by a halberd, lances were lodged in his stomach and loins, and his face had been so badly mutilated by wild animals that only his physician was able to identify him by his long fingernails and the old battle scars on his body.\n\nCharles' battered body was initially buried in the ducal church in Nancy, by René II, Duke of Lorraine. Later in 1550, his great-grandson, Holy Roman Emperor Charles V, ordered it to be moved to the Church of Our Lady in Bruges, next to that of his daughter Mary. In 1562, Emperor Charles V's son and heir, King Philip II of Spain, erected a mausoleum in early renaissance style over his tomb, still extant. Excavations in 1979 positively identified the remains of Mary, in a lead coffin, but those of Charles were never found.\n\nCharles married three times:\n\n1. On 19 May 1440, he married Catherine of France (1428–1446), daughter of Charles VII of France and Marie of Anjou. At the time of the marriage, she was 12 and he 6. She died at 18.\n\n2. On 30 October 1454, he married Isabelle of Bourbon (1437–1465), daughter of Charles I of Bourbon. He would have preferred to marry Anne of York (the daughter of Richard, Duke of York), but his father insisted that he fulfill the conditions of the Treaty of Arras, which committed him to marry a French princess. The marriage was a happy one and produced his only offspring, Mary of Burgundy 13 February 1457.\n\n3. On 3 July 1468, Charles married Anne's sister, Margaret of York (1446–1503); her siblings also included Edward IV of England, George, Duke of Clarence, and Richard III of England. The marriage was solemnized at Damme, near Bruges, by the bishop of Salisbury.\n\nThe Burgundian possessions passed into the Habsburg empire on the marriage of his one child and heiress Mary to Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor.\n\nBurgundian chroniclers described the personality of the duke as austere, virtuous but without pity, pious and chaste, and with an exacerbated sense of honour. His contemporaries named him \"le Hardi\" or \"der Kühne\" (\"the Bold\") or \"le Guerrier\" (\"the Warrior\") or \"le Terrible\" (\"the Terrible\"), among others, and the epithet that would become his byname in history, \"le Téméraire\" (\"the Reckless\"), is already found in Thomas Basin, bishop of Lisieux, who wrote around 1484.\nThese bynames, however, in the 15th century were used as qualifications of his character, but not yet in any systematic fashion, the duke being simply known as \"Charles de Bourgogne\".\nThe process of the epithet \"le Téméraire\" acquiring the nature of a byname was gradual. In the 17th century, the \"Grand Dictionnaire Historique\" of Louis Moreri mentions \"Charles de Bourgogne, surnommé le Guerrier, le Hardi ou le Téméraire\".\nIn the 18th century, Dom Plancher still mentions him as \"Charles le Hardi\".\nIn the 19th century, the byname of \"le Téméraire\" became standard in France and Belgium.\n\nCharles left his unmarried nineteen-year-old daughter, Mary, as his heir; clearly her marriage would have enormous implications for the political balance of Europe. Both Louis and the Emperor had unmarried eldest sons; Charles had made some movements towards arranging a marriage between Mary and the Emperor's son, Maximilian, before his own death.\nLouis unwisely concentrated on seizing militarily the border territories, in particular the Duchy of Burgundy (a French fief). This naturally made negotiations for a marriage difficult. He later admitted to his councillor Philippe de Commynes that this was his greatest mistake. In the meantime the Habsburg Emperor moved faster and more purposefully and secured the match for his son Maximilian, with the aid of Mary's stepmother, Margaret.\n\nDue to this marriage, much of the Burgundian territories passed to the Holy Roman Empire. Throughout the early modern Wars of Religion and down to 1945, the border between the Holy Roman Empire and the kingdom of France, and later between France and Germany (specifically, concerning Alsace, Lorraine and Flanders), would be a matter of dispute.\n\nHe is a main character in Sir Walter Scott's 1823 novel \"Quentin Durward\". He is portrayed as intelligent, though brash. The timeline was manipulated by the author for dramatic purposes. He is also a principal character in Scott's later novel \"Anne of Geierstein\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1364686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1364686", "title": "Cognitive liberty", "text": "Cognitive liberty\n\nCognitive liberty, or the \"right to mental self-determination\", is the freedom of an individual to control his or her own mental processes, cognition, and consciousness. It has been argued to be both an extension of, and the principle underlying, the right to freedom of thought. Though a relatively recently defined concept, many theorists see cognitive liberty as being of increasing importance as technological advances in neuroscience allow for an ever-expanding ability to directly influence consciousness. Cognitive liberty is not a recognized right in any international human rights treaties, but has gained a limited level of recognition in the United States, and is argued to be the principle underlying a number of recognized rights.\n\nThe term \"cognitive liberty\" was coined by neuroethicist Dr. Wrye Sententia and legal theorist and lawyer Richard Glen Boire, the founders and directors of the non-profit Center for Cognitive Liberty and Ethics (CCLE). Sententia and Boire define cognitive liberty as \"the right of each individual to think independently and autonomously, to use the full power of his or her mind, and to engage in multiple modes of thought.\"\n\nSententia and Boire conceived of the concept of cognitive liberty as a response to the increasing ability of technology to monitor and manipulate cognitive function, and the corresponding increase in the need to ensure individual cognitive autonomy and privacy. Sententia divides the practical application of cognitive liberty into two principles:\n\n\nThese two facets of cognitive liberty are reminiscent of Timothy Leary's \"Two Commandments for the Molecular Age\", from his 1968 book \"The Politics of Ecstasy\":\n\nSupporters of cognitive liberty therefore seek to impose both a negative and a positive obligation on states: to refrain from non-consensually interfering with an individual's cognitive processes, and to allow individuals to self-determine their own \"inner realm\" and control their own mental functions.\n\nThis first obligation, to refrain from non-consensually interfering with an individual's cognitive processes, seeks to protect individuals from having their mental processes altered or monitored without their consent or knowledge, \"setting up a defensive wall against unwanted intrusions\". Ongoing improvements to neurotechnologies such as transcranial magnetic stimulation and electroencephalography (or \"brain fingerprinting\"); and to pharmacology in the form of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), Nootropics, Modafinil and other psychoactive drugs, are continuing to increase the ability to both monitor and directly influence human cognition. As a result, many theorists have emphasized the importance of recognizing cognitive liberty in order to protect individuals from the state using such technologies to alter those individuals’ mental processes: \"states must be barred from invading the inner sphere of persons, from accessing their thoughts, modulating their emotions or manipulating their personal preferences.\"\n\nThis element of cognitive liberty has been raised in relation to a number of state-sanctioned interventions in individual cognition, from the mandatory psychiatric 'treatment' of homosexuals in the US before the 1970s, to the non-consensual administration of psychoactive drugs to unwitting US citizens during CIA Project MKUltra, to the forcible administration of mind-altering drugs on individuals to make them competent to stand trial. Futurist and bioethicist George Dvorsky, Chair of the Board of the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies has identified this element of cognitive liberty as being of relevance to the debate around the curing of autism spectrum conditions. Duke University School of Law Professor Nita Farahany has also proposed legislative protection of cognitive liberty as a way of safeguarding the protection from self-incrimination found in the Fifth Amendment to the US Constitution, in the light of the increasing ability to access human memory.\n\nThough this element of cognitive liberty is often defined as an individual’s freedom from \"state\" interference with human cognition, Jan Christoph Bublitz and Reinhard Merkel among others suggest that cognitive liberty should also prevent other, non-state entities from interfering with an individual’s mental \"inner realm\". Bublitz and Merkel propose the introduction of a new criminal offense punishing \"interventions severely interfering with another’s mental integrity by undermining mental control or exploiting pre-existing mental weakness.\" Direct interventions that reduce or impair cognitive capacities such as memory, concentration, and willpower; alter preferences, beliefs, or behavioral dispositions; elicit inappropriate emotions; or inflict clinically identifiable mental injuries would all be \"prima facie\" impermissible and subject to criminal prosecution. Sententia and Boire have also expressed concern that corporations and other non-state entities might utilize emerging neurotechnologies to alter individuals' mental processes without their consent.\n\nWhere the first obligation seeks to protect individuals from interference with cognitive processes by the state, corporations or other individuals, this second obligation seeks to ensure that individuals have the freedom to alter or enhance their own consciousness. An individual who enjoys this aspect of cognitive liberty has the freedom to alter their mental processes in any way they wish to; whether through indirect methods such as meditation, yoga or prayer; or through direct cognitive intervention through psychoactive drugs or neurotechnology.\n\nAs psychotropic drugs are a powerful method of altering cognitive function, many advocates of cognitive liberty are also advocates of drug law reform; claiming that the \"war on drugs\" is in fact a \"war on mental states\". The CCLE, as well as other cognitive liberty advocacy groups such as Cognitive Liberty UK, have lobbied for the re-examination and reform of prohibited drug law; one of the CCLE's key guiding principles is that: \"governments should not criminally prohibit cognitive enhancement or the experience of any mental state\". Calls for reform of restrictions on the use of prescription cognitive-enhancement drugs (also called smart drugs or nootropics) such as Prozac, Ritalin and Adderall have also been made on the grounds of cognitive liberty.\n\nThis element of cognitive liberty is also of great importance to proponents of the transhumanist movement, a key tenet of which is the enhancement of human mental function. Dr Wrye Sententia has emphasized the importance of cognitive liberty in ensuring the freedom to pursue human mental enhancement, as well as the freedom to choose against enhancement. Sententia argues that the recognition of a \"right to (and not to) direct, modify, or enhance one's thought processes\" is vital to the free application of emerging neurotechnology to enhance human cognition; and that something beyond the current conception of freedom of thought is needed. Sententia claims that \"cognitive liberty's strength is that it protects those who do want to alter their brains, but also those who do not\".\n\nCognitive liberty is not currently recognized as a human right by any international human rights treaty. While freedom of thought is recognized by Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), freedom of thought can be distinguished from cognitive liberty in that the former is concerned with protecting an individual’s freedom to think \"whatever\" they want, whereas cognitive liberty is concerned with protecting an individual’s freedom to think \"however\" they want. Cognitive liberty seeks to protect an individual’s right to determine their own state of mind and be free from external control over their state of mind, rather than just protecting the content of an individuals’ thoughts. \nIt has been suggested that the lack of protection of cognitive liberty in previous human rights instruments was due to the relative lack of technology capable of directly interfering with mental autonomy at the time the core human rights treaties were created. As the human mind was considered invulnerable to direct manipulation, control or alteration, it was deemed unnecessary to expressly protect individuals from unwanted mental interference. With modern advances in neuroscience and in anticipation of its future development however, it is argued that such express protection is becoming increasingly necessary.\n\nCognitive liberty then can be seen as an extension of or an \"update\" to the right to freedom of thought as it has been traditionally understood. Freedom of thought should now be understood to include the right to determine one’s own mental state as well as the content of one’s thoughts. However, some have instead argued that cognitive liberty is already an inherent part of the international human rights framework as the principle underlying the rights to freedom of thought, expression and religion. The freedom to think in whatever manner one chooses is a \"necessary precondition to those guaranteed freedoms.\" Daniel Waterman and Casey William Hardison have argued that cognitive liberty is fundamental to Freedom of Thought because it encompasses the ability to have certain types of experiences, including the right to experience altered or non-ordinary states of consciousness. It has also been suggested that cognitive liberty can be seen to be a part of the inherent dignity of human beings as recognized by Article 1 of the UDHR.\n\nMost proponents of cognitive liberty agree however that cognitive liberty should be expressly recognized as a human right in order to properly provide protection for individual cognitive autonomy.\n\nRichard Glen Boire of the Center for Cognitive Liberty and Ethics filed an \"amicus\" brief with the US Supreme Court in the case of \"Sell v. United States\", in which the Supreme Court examined whether the court had the power to make an order to forcibly administer antipsychotic medication to an individual who had refused such treatment, for the sole purpose of making them competent to stand trial.\n\nIn the case of \"R v Hardison\", the defendant, charged with eight counts under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 (MDA), including the production of DMT and LSD, claimed that cognitive liberty was safeguarded by Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Hardison argued that \"individual sovereignty over one's interior environment constitutes the very core of what it means to be free\", and that as psychotropic drugs are a potent method of altering an individual's mental process, prohibition of them under the MDA was in opposition to Article 9. The court however disagreed, calling Hardison's arguments a \"portmanteau defense\" and relying upon the UN Drug Conventions and the earlier case of \"R v Taylor\" to deny Hardison's right to appeal to a superior court. Hardison was convicted and given a 20-year prison sentence, though he was released on 29 May 2013 after nine years in prison.\n\nWhile there has been little publicized criticism of the concept of cognitive liberty itself, drug policy reform and the concept of human enhancement, both closely linked to cognitive liberty, remain highly controversial issues. The risks inherent in removing restrictions on controlled cognitive-enhancing drugs, including of widening the gap between those able to afford such treatments and those unable to do so, have caused many to remain skeptical about the wisdom of recognizing cognitive liberty as a right. Political philosopher and Harvard University professor Michael J. Sandel, when examining the prospect of memory enhancement, wrote that \"some who worry about the ethics of cognitive enhancement point to the danger of creating two classes of human beings – those with access to enhancement technologies, and those who must make do with an unaltered memory that fades with age.\" Cognitive liberty then faces opposition obliquely in these interrelated debates.\n"}
{"id": "7087403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7087403", "title": "Cristian Mijares", "text": "Cristian Mijares\n\nCristian Ricardo Lucio Mijares (born October 2, 1981 in Gomez Palacio, Durango) is a retired Mexican professional boxer. Mijares is the former WBC, WBA, and IBF Super Flyweight Champion. Cristian is the older brother of prospect Ricardo Mijares and the nephew of world title contender Vicente Mijares.\n\nCristian comes from a large boxing family. His younger brother is a Lightweight prospect Ricardo Mijares and his uncle is a former world title contender Vicente Mijares.\n\nOn June 3, 2006 Mijares knocked out Adalberto Davila in six rounds for the Mexican Super Flyweight title.\n\nOn September 18, 2006 he defeated former champion Katsushige Kawashima for the Interim WBC title, by a split decision. The Official scorers saw it 114-113, 113-114, 114-113. He was later promoted to full champion after reigning champion Masamori Tokuyama vacated his title on December 6, 2006 in anticipation of retiring. In 2007, he defeated Katsushige Kawashima in a rematch via a tenth round knock out.\n\nOn April 14, 2007 Mijares defended his title by beating two time Light Flyweight Champion Jorge Arce by unanimous decision in a particularly bloody match for Arce, who saw his first defeat since 1999. Mijares won the fight by a wide margin, with the official judges scoring the match 119-109, 118-110, 117-111, all in favor of Mijares.\n\nMijares returned just 3 months later, beating Teppei Kikui, dominating and then stopping him in 10 rounds in front of his hometown crown in Mexico. Mijares made quick work of obscure journeyman Franck Gorjux stopping him in just 1 round.\nIn February 2008, Mijares returned to the United States and was featured on a HBO pay-per-view under card against Flyweight Olympian Jose Navarro, the early rounds belonged to Mijares, while the middle rounds were evenly matched with Mijares finishing strong in the later rounds. Mijares retained his title with a Split Decision victory.\n\nMijares unified his WBC Super Flyweight title by defeating WBA Champion Alexander Munoz via split decision on May 17, 2008. After several close opening rounds, Mijares took control with his crisp counterpunching and brilliant defense, with the win being secured by many dominant late rounds in which he managed to hurt Munoz. This win made him the WBA (Super) Champion. With the victory, Mijares earned a spot in the top 10 pound for pound list.\n\nMijares made a return August 30 in Mexico, where he defended his two crowns against a 38-year-old former WBC Flyweight Champion Chatchai Sasakul. Sasakul had lost his title to Manny Pacquiao in 1998 and had not fought any world class opposition since. Mijares easily controlled the contest with his jab and counterpunching, eventually stopping Sasakul in round 3 after dropping him in the previous round.\n\nMijares was most recently knocked out by Vic Darchinyan in the 9th round, losing his WBC and WBA Super Flyweight titles to the Armenian-born Australian in a surprising upset. Although he had three defeats prior to his bout with Darchinyan, this was the first time Mijares had been stopped.\n\nHe went up in weight and challenged Nehomar Cermeño for the Interim WBA Bantamweight title on March 14, 2009. Mijares lost by split decision. He fought Cermeño again on September 12, 2009 for that same title but lost by unanimous decision. Two days later, Mijares announced his retirement from boxing.\n\nOn December 11, 2010 Mijares became a two-time world champion by beating IBF Super Flyweight Champion Juan Alberto Rosas.\n\nIn May 2011, Cristian made his first defence, a victory over contender Carlos Rueda.\n\nOn June 16, 2018, Mijares headlined his retirement card before a partisan crowd at Gómez Palacio, losing by third round knockout to Wilfredo Vázquez Jr. of Puerto Rico.\n\n\"Major World Titles:\"\n\n\"Regional/International Titles:\"\n\n"}
{"id": "43902176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43902176", "title": "Dazu Lotus Manor", "text": "Dazu Lotus Manor\n\nDazu Lotus Manor (大足荷花山庄) is a lotus farm attraction in Dazu, Chongqing Municipality, China.\n\nThe attraction was established in 1992 and is owned by Luo Dengqiang. It covers 33 hectares and is located in Baoding Township, Dazu District. It is a holiday resort with floral plants on display, especially aquatic species, and other recreational facilities. The site included some reconstructed traditional buildings. It is close to the Dazu Rock Carvings World Heritage Site.\n\nSeeds of lotus plants on the site have been taken into space, with mutations claimed as a result. 3,000 seeds were sent into space by the Beijing Space Satellite Application Company. Luo Dengqiang was the first Chinese individual to undertake such a space programme.\n\n"}
{"id": "18793578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18793578", "title": "Death of Caylee Anthony", "text": "Death of Caylee Anthony\n\nCaylee Marie Anthony (August 9, 2005 – 2008) was an American girl who lived in Orlando, Florida, with her mother, Casey Marie Anthony (born March 19, 1986), and her maternal grandparents, George and Cindy Anthony. On July 15, 2008, she was reported missing in a call made by Cindy, who said she had not seen Caylee for 31 days and that Casey's car smelled like a dead body had been inside it. Cindy said Casey had given varied explanations as to Caylee's whereabouts before finally telling her that she had not seen Caylee for weeks. Casey lied to detectives, telling them Caylee had been kidnapped by a nanny on June 9, and that she had been trying to find her, too frightened to alert the authorities. She was charged with first-degree murder in October 2008 and pleaded not guilty.\n\nOn December 11, 2008, two-year-old Caylee's skeletal remains were found with a blanket inside a trash bag in a wooded area near the Anthony family's house. Investigative reports and trial testimony alternated between duct tape being found near the front of the skull and on the mouth of the skull. The medical examiner mentioned duct tape as one reason she ruled the death a homicide, but officially listed it as \"death by undetermined means\".\n\nThe trial lasted six weeks, from May to July 2011. The prosecution sought the death penalty and alleged Casey wished to free herself from parental responsibilities and murdered her daughter by administering chloroform and applying duct tape. The defense team, led by Jose Baez, countered that the child had drowned accidentally in the family's swimming pool on June 16, 2008, and that George Anthony disposed of the body. The defense contended that Casey lied about this and other issues because of a dysfunctional upbringing, which they said included sexual abuse by her father. The defense did not present evidence as to how Caylee died, nor evidence that Casey was sexually abused as a child, but challenged every piece of the prosecution's evidence, calling much of it \"fantasy forensics\". Casey did not testify. On July 5, 2011, the jury found Casey not guilty of first-degree murder, aggravated child abuse, and aggravated manslaughter of a child, but guilty of four misdemeanor counts of providing false information to a law enforcement officer. With credit for time served, she was released on July 17, 2011. A Florida appeals court overturned two of the misdemeanor convictions on January 25, 2013.\n\nThe not-guilty murder verdict was greeted with public outrage and was both attacked and defended by media and legal commentators. Some complained that the jury misunderstood the meaning of reasonable doubt, while others said the prosecution relied too heavily on the defendant's allegedly poor moral character because they had been unable to show conclusively how the victim had died. \"Time\" magazine described the case as \"the social media trial of the century\".\n\nAccording to Casey Anthony's father, George Anthony, Casey left the family's home on June 16, 2008, taking her two-year-old daughter Caylee (who was almost three) with her and did not return for 31 days. Casey's mother Cindy asked repeatedly during the month to see Caylee, but Casey claimed that she was too busy with a work assignment in Tampa, Florida. At other times, she said Caylee was with a nanny, who Casey identified by the name of Zenaida \"Zanny\" Fernandez-Gonzalez, or at theme parks or the beach. It was eventually determined that a woman named Zenaida Fernandez-Gonzalez did in fact exist, but that she had never met Casey, Caylee, any other member of the Anthony family, nor any of Casey's friends.\n\nOn July 13, 2008, while doing yard work, Cindy and George Anthony found a notice from the post office for a certified letter affixed on their front door. George picked up the certified letter from the post office on July 15, 2008, and found that his daughter's car was in a tow yard. When George picked up the car, both he and the tow yard attendant noted a strong smell coming from the trunk. Both later stated that they believed the odor to be that of a decomposing body. When the trunk was opened, it contained a bag of trash, but no human remains.\n\nCindy reported Caylee missing that day, July 15, to the Orange County Sheriff's Office. During the same telephone call, Casey confirmed to the 9-1-1 operator that Caylee had been missing for 31 days. Sounding distraught, Cindy said: \"There is something wrong. I found my daughter's car today and it smells like there's been a dead body in the damn car.\"\n\nWhen Detective Yuri Melich of the Orange County Sheriff's Department began investigating Caylee's disappearance, he found discrepancies in Casey's signed statement. When questioned, Casey said Caylee had been kidnapped by Zenaida Fernandez-Gonzalez, who she also identified as \"Zanny\", Caylee's nanny. Although Casey had talked about her, Zanny had never been seen by Casey's family or friends, and in fact there was no nanny. Casey also told police that she was working at Universal Studios, a lie she had been telling her parents for years. Investigators brought Casey to Universal Studios on July 16, 2008, the day after Caylee was reported missing, and asked her to show them her office. Casey led police around for a while before admitting that she had been fired years before.\n\nCasey was first arrested on July 16, 2008, and was charged the following day with giving false statements to law enforcement, child neglect, and obstruction of a criminal investigation. The judge denied bail, saying Casey had shown \"woeful disregard for the welfare of her child\". On July 22, 2008, after a bond hearing, the judge set bail at $500,000. On August 21, 2008, after one month of incarceration, she was released from the Orange County jail after her $500,000 bond was posted by the nephew of California bail bondsman Leonard Padilla in hopes that she would cooperate and Caylee would be found.\n\nOn August 11, 12, and 13, 2008, meter reader Roy Kronk called police about a suspicious object found in a forested area near the Anthony residence. In the first instance, he was directed by the sheriff's office to call the tip line, which he did, receiving no return call. On the second instance, he again called the sheriff's office, eventually was met by two police officers and reported to them that he had seen what appeared to be a skull near a gray bag. On that occasion, the officer conducted a short search and stated he did not see anything. On December 11, 2008, Kronk again called the police. They searched and found the remains of a child in a trash bag. Investigative teams recovered duct tape which was hanging from Caylee's hair and some tissue left on her skull. Over the next four days, more bones were found in the wooded area near the spot where the remains initially had been discovered. On December 19, 2008, medical examiner Jan Garavaglia confirmed that the remains found were those of Caylee Anthony. The death was ruled a homicide and the cause of death listed as undetermined.\n\nCasey was offered a limited immunity deal on July 29, 2008, by prosecutors related to \"the false statements given to law enforcement about locating her child\", which was renewed on August 25, to expire August 28. She did not take it.\n\nOn September 5, 2008, she was released again on bail on all pending charges after being fitted with an electronic tracking device. Her $500,000 bond was posted by her parents, Cindy and George Anthony, who signed a promissory note for the bond.\n\nOn October 14, 2008, Casey Anthony was indicted by a grand jury on charges of first degree murder, aggravated child abuse, aggravated manslaughter of a child, and four counts of providing false information to police. She was later arrested. Judge John Jordan ordered that she be held without bond. On October 21, 2008, the charges of child neglect were dropped against Casey, according to the State Attorney's Office because \"[as] the evidence proved that the child was deceased, the State sought an indictment on the legally appropriate charges.\" On October 28, Anthony was arraigned and pleaded not guilty to all charges.\n\nOn April 13, 2009, prosecutors announced that they planned to seek the death penalty in the case.\n\nFour hundred pieces of evidence were presented. A strand of hair was recovered from the trunk of Casey's car which was microscopically similar to hair taken from Caylee's hairbrush. The strand showed \"root-banding,\" in which hair roots form a dark band after death, which was consistent with hair from a dead body.\n\nKronk, who discoverered the remains, repeated the same basic story that he had told police. On Friday, October 24, 2008, a forensic report by Arpad Vass of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory judged that results from an air sampling procedure (called LIBS) performed in the trunk of Casey Anthony's car showed chemical compounds \"consistent with a decompositional event\" based on the presence of five key chemical compounds out of over 400 possible chemical compounds that Vass's research group considers typical of decomposition. Investigators stated that the trunk smelled strongly of human decomposition, but human decomposition was not specified on the laboratory scale. The process has not been affirmed by a Daubert Test in the courts. Vass's group also stated there was chloroform in the car trunk.\n\nIn October 2009, officials released 700 pages of documents related to the Anthony investigation, including records of Google searches of the terms \"neck breaking\" and \"how to make chloroform\" on a computer accessible to Casey, presented by the prosecutors as evidence of a crime.\n\nAccording to detectives, crime-scene evidence included residue of a heart-shaped sticker found on duct tape over the mouth of Caylee's skull. However, the laboratory was not able to capture a heart-shape photographically after some duct tape was subjected to dye testing. A blanket found at the crime scene matched Caylee's bedding at her grandparents' home.\n\nAmong photos entered into evidence was one from the computer of Ricardo Morales, an ex-boyfriend of Casey Anthony, depicting a poster with the caption \"Win her over with Chloroform\".\n\nWitness John Dennis Bradley's software, developed for computer investigations, was used by the prosecution to indicate that Casey had conducted extensive computer searches on the word \"chloroform\" 84 times, and to suggest that Anthony had planned to commit murder. He later discovered that a flaw in the software misread the forensic data and that the word \"chloroform\" had been searched for only one time and the website in question offered information on the use of chloroform in the 19th century (see below).\n\nThe lead prosecutor in the case was Assistant State Attorney Linda Drane Burdick. Assistant State Attorneys Frank George and Jeff Ashton completed the prosecution team. Lead counsel for the defense was Jose Baez, a Florida criminal defense attorney. Attorneys J. Cheney Mason, Dorothy Clay Sims, and Ann Finnell served as co-counsel. During the trial, attorney Mark Lippman represented George and Cindy Anthony.\n\nJury selection began on May 9, 2011, at the Pinellas County Criminal Justice Center in Clearwater, Florida, because the case had been so widely reported in the Orlando area. Jurors were brought from Pinellas County to Orlando. Jury selection took longer than expected and ended on May 20, 2011, with twelve jurors and five alternates being sworn in. The panel consisted of nine women and eight men. The trial took six weeks, during which time the jury was sequestered to avoid influence from information available outside the courtroom.\n\nThe trial began on May 24, 2011, at the Orange County Courthouse, with Judge Belvin Perry presiding. In the opening statements, lead prosecutor Linda Drane Burdick described the story of the disappearance of Caylee Anthony day-by-day. The prosecution alleged an intentional murder and sought the death penalty against Casey Anthony. Prosecutors stated that Anthony used chloroform to render her daughter unconscious before putting duct tape over her nose and mouth to suffocate her, and left Caylee's body in the trunk of her car for a few days before disposing of it. They characterized Anthony as a party girl who killed her daughter to free herself from parental responsibility and enjoy her personal life.\n\nThe defense, led by Jose Baez, claimed in opening statements that Caylee drowned accidentally in the family's pool on June 16, 2008, and was found by George Anthony, who told Casey she would spend the rest of her life in jail for child neglect and then proceeded to cover up Caylee's death. Baez argued this is why Casey Anthony went on with her life and failed to report the incident for 31 days. He alleged that it was the habit of a lifetime for Casey to hide her pain and pretend nothing was wrong because she had been sexually abused by George Anthony since she was eight years old and her brother Lee also had made advances toward her. Baez also questioned whether Roy Kronk, the meter reader who found the bones, had actually removed them from another location, and further alleged that the police department's investigation was compromised by their desire to feed a media frenzy about a child's murder, rather than a more mundane drowning. He admitted that Casey had lied about there being a nanny named Zenaida Fernandez-Gonzales.\n\nProsecutors called George Anthony as their first witness and, in a response to their question, he denied having sexually abused his daughter Casey. Anthony testified he did not smell anything resembling human decomposition in Casey's car when she visited him on June 24, but he did smell something similar to human decomposition when he picked the car up on July 15. Cindy Anthony testified that her comment to that Casey's car smelled \"like someone died\" was just a \"figure of speech\".\n\nBaez asked an FBI analyst about the paternity test the FBI conducted to see if Lee was Caylee's father. She told the jury the test had come back negative. Regarding a photo on the computer of Ricardo Morales, an ex-boyfriend of Casey Anthony, depicting a poster with the caption \"Win her over with Chloroform,\" Morales said that the photo was on his Myspace page and that he had never discussed chloroform with Anthony or searched for chloroform on her computer.\n\nThe prosecution called John Dennis Bradley, a former Canadian law enforcement officer who develops software for computer investigations, to analyze a data file from a desktop taken from the Anthony home. Bradley said he was able to use a program to recover deleted searches from March 17 and March 21, 2008, and that someone searched the website Sci-spot.com for \"chloroform\" 84 times. Bradley expressed his belief that \"some of these items might have been bookmarked\". Under cross-examination by the defense, Bradley agreed there were two individual accounts on the desktop and that there was no way to know who actually performed the searches.\n\nK9 handler Jason Forgey testified that Gerus, a German Shepherd cadaver dog certified in 2005, indicated a high alert of human decomposition in the trunk of Casey's car, saying the police dog has had real-world searches numbering \"over three thousand by now\". During cross-examination, Baez argued that the dog's search records were \"hearsay\". Sgt. Kristin Brewer also testified that her K9 partner, Bones, signaled decomposition in the backyard during a search in July 2008. However, neither K9 partner was able to detect decomposition during a second visit to the Anthony home. Brewer explained that this was because whatever had been in the yard was either moved or the odor dissipated.\n\nThe prosecution called chief medical examiner Jan Garavaglia, who testified that she determined Caylee's manner of death to be homicide, but listed it as \"death by undetermined means\". Garavaglia took into account the physical evidence present on the remains she examined, as well as all the available information on the way they were found and what she had been told by the authorities, before arriving at her determination. \"We know by our observations that it's a red flag when a child has not been reported to authorities with injury, there's foul play,\" Garavaglia said. \" ... There is no child that should have duct tape on [the lower part of] its face when it dies.\" Additionally, Garavaglia addressed the chloroform evidence found by investigators inside the trunk of Casey's car, testifying that even a small amount of chloroform would be sufficient to cause the death of a child.\n\nUniversity of Florida professor and human identification laboratory director Michael Warren was brought on by the prosecution to present a computer animation of the way duct tape could have been used in the death of the child, which the defense objected to hearing. Judge Perry, after a short recess to review, ruled that the video could be shown to the jury. The animation featured a picture of Caylee taken alongside Casey, superimposed with an image of Caylee's decomposed skull, and another with a strip of duct tape that was recovered with her remains. The images were slowly brought together showing that the duct tape could have covered her nose and mouth. Baez stated, \"This disgusting superimposition is nothing more than a fantasy ...They're throwing things against the wall and seeing if it sticks.\" Jurors were seen taking notes of the imagery, and Warren testified that it was his opinion that the duct tape found with Caylee's skull was placed there before her body began decomposing.\n\nFBI latent-print examiner Elizabeth Fontaine testified that adhesive in the shape of a heart was found on a corner of a piece of duct tape that was covering the mouth portion of Caylee's remains during ultraviolet testing. Fontaine examined three pieces of duct tape found on Caylee's remains for fingerprints, and said she did not find fingerprints but did not expect to, given the months the tape and the remains had been outdoors and exposed to the elements, stressing that any oil or sweat from a person's fingertips would have long since deteriorated. Although Fontaine showed the findings to her supervisor, she did not initially try to photograph the heart-shaped adhesive, explaining, \"When I observe something is unexpected, I note it and continue with my examination.\" During the defense's cross-examination, Fontaine explained that when she examined the sticker evidence a second time, after subjecting the tape to dye testing, \"It was no longer visible.\" She said that other FBI agents had tested the duct tape in the interim.\n\nThe defense called two government witnesses who countered prosecution witness testimony about the duct tape. The chief investigator for the medical examiner stated that the original placement of the duct tape was unclear and it could have shifted positions as he collected the remains. Cindy Anthony testified that their family buried their pets in blankets and plastic bags, using duct tape to seal the opening. Additionally, an FBI forensic document examiner found no evidence of a sticker or sticker residue on the duct tape found near the child's remains.\n\nThe defense called forensic pathologist Dr. Werner Spitz, who performed a second autopsy on Caylee after Garavaglia and challenged Garavaglia's autopsy report. He called her autopsy \"shoddy,\" saying it was a failure that Caylee's skull was not opened during her examination. \"You need to examine the whole body in an autopsy,\" he said. Spitz stated that he was not allowed to attend Garavaglia's initial autopsy on Caylee's remains, and that, from his own follow-up autopsy, he was not comfortable ruling the child's death a homicide. He said he could not determine what Caylee's manner of death was, but said that there was no indication to him that she was murdered. Additionally, Spitz testified that he believed the duct tape found on Caylee's skull was placed there after the body decomposed, opining that if tape was placed on the skin, there should have been DNA left on it, and suggested that someone may have staged some of the crime scene photos. \"The person who took this picture, the person who prepared this, put the hair there,\" stated Spitz. When asked by Ashton during cross-examination, \"So your testimony is the medical examiner's personnel took the hair that wasn't on the skull, placed it there?\", Spitz answered, \"It wouldn't be the first time, sir. I can tell you some horror stories about that.\"\n\nOn June 21, Bradley discovered that a flaw in his software misread the forensic data and that the word \"chloroform\" had been searched for only one time and the website in question offered information on the use of chloroform in the 19th century. On June 23, Baez called Cindy Anthony to the stand, who told jurors she had been the one who performed the \"chloroform\" search on the family computer in March 2008. The prosecution alleged that only Casey could have conducted this search and the others because she was the only one home at the time. When asked by prosecutors how she could have made the Internet searches when employment records show she was at work, Cindy Anthony said despite what her work time sheet indicates, she was at home during these time periods because she left from work early during the days in question. Bradley alerted prosecutor Linda Burdick and Sgt. Kevin Stenger of the Sheriff's Office the weekend of June 25 about the discrepancy in his software, and volunteered to fly to Orlando at his own expense to show them. On the same day, the judge temporarily halted proceedings when the defense filed a motion to determine if Anthony was competent to proceed with trial. The motion states the defense received a privileged communication from their client which caused them to believe \"...Ms. Anthony is not competent to aid and assist in her own defense\". The trial resumed on June 27 when the judge announced that the results of the psychological evaluations showed Anthony was competent to proceed. Later, in testimony about air samples, Dr. Ken Furton, a professor of chemistry at Florida International University, stated that there is no consensus in the field on what chemicals are typical of human decomposition. Judge Perry ruled that the jury would not get to smell air samples taken from the trunk.\n\nThe prosecution stated they discussed Bradley's software discrepancy with Baez on June 27, and he raised the issue in court testimony. Baez also asked Judge Perry to instruct the jury about this search information, but prosecutors disputed this and it was not done. Also on June 27, the defense called two private investigators who, in November 2008, had searched the area where the body was later found. The search was videotaped, but nothing was found. On June 28, the defense called a Texas EquuSearch team leader who did two searches of the area and found no body. The defense then called Roy Kronk, who recounted the same basic story he told police about his discovery of Caylee Anthony's remains in December 2008. He acknowledged receiving $5,000 after the remains were identified, but denied that he told his son that finding the body would make him rich and famous. The next day, his son testified he had made such statements.\n\nOn June 30, the defense called Krystal Holloway, a volunteer in the search for Caylee, who stated that she had had an affair with George Anthony, that he had been to her home, and that he had texted her, \"Just thinking about you. I need you in my life.\" She told the defense that George Anthony had told her that Caylee's death was \"an accident that snowballed out of control.\" Under cross-examination by prosecutors, they pointed to her sworn police statement in which she had said that George Anthony believed it was an accident, rather than knowing that it was. In her initial report, Holloway reported George Anthony saying, \"I really believe that it was an accident that just went wrong and (Casey Anthony) tried to cover it up.\" She said he had not told her he was present when the alleged accident occurred. During redirect examination, Baez asked Holloway if George Anthony had told her that Caylee was dead while stating publicly that she was missing, to which she replied yes.\n\nIn his earlier testimony, George Anthony denied the affair with Holloway and said he visited her only because she was ill. He said he sent the text message because he needed everyone who had helped in his life. After Holloway's testimony, Judge Perry told jurors that it could be used to impeach George Anthony's credibility, but that it was not proof of how Caylee died and/or evidence of Casey Anthony's guilt or innocence.\n\nThe prosecution rested its case on June 15, after calling 59 witnesses for 70 different testimonies. The defense rested its case on June 30, after calling 47 witnesses for 63 different testimonies. Casey Anthony did not testify.\n\nOn June 30 and July 1, the prosecutor presented rebuttal arguments, beginning by showing the jury photographs of Caylee's clothes and George's suicide note. It called two representatives of Cindy Anthony's former employer who explained why their computer login system shows Cindy was at work the afternoon she said she went home early and searched her computer for information about chloroform. A police computer analyst testified someone had purposely searched online for \"neck + breaking.\" Another analyst testified she did not find evidence that Cindy Anthony had searched certain terms she claimed to have searched. Anthropology professor Dr. Michael Warren from the University of Florida was recalled to rebut a defense witness on the need to open a skull during an autopsy. The lead detective stated that there were no phone calls between Cindy and George Anthony during the week of June 16, 2008. However, he told the defense he did not know that George had a second cell phone.\n\nClosing arguments were heard July 3 and July 4. Jeff Ashton, for the prosecution, told the jury, \"When you have a child, that child becomes your life. This case is about the clash between that responsibility, and the expectations that go with it, and the life that Casey Anthony wanted to have.\" He outlined the state's case against Casey, touching on her many lies to her parents and others, the smell in her car's trunk—identified by several witnesses, including her own father, as the odor from human decomposition—and the items found with Caylee's skeletal remains in December 2008. He emphasized how Casey \"maintains her lies until they absolutely cannot be maintained any more\" and then replaces [them] with another lie, using \"Zanny the Nanny\" as an example. Anthony repeatedly told police that Caylee was with the nanny that she specifically identified as Zenaida Fernandez-Gonzalez. Police, however, were never able to find the nanny. Authorities did find a woman named Zenaida Fernandez-Gonzalez, but she denied ever meeting the Anthonys.\n\nAshton reintroduced the items found with Caylee's remains, including a Winnie the Pooh blanket that matched the bedding at her grandparents' home, one of a set of laundry bags with the twin bag found at the Anthony home, and duct tape he said was a relatively rare brand. \"That bag is Caylee's coffin,\" Ashton said, holding up a photograph of the laundry bag, as Casey reacted with emotion. He further criticized the defense's theory that Caylee drowned in the Anthony pool and that Casey and George panicked upon finding the child's body and covered up her death. He advised jurors to use their common sense when deciding on a verdict. \"No one makes an accident look like murder,\" he said.\n\nBefore closing arguments, Judge Perry ruled that the defense could argue that a drowning occurred due to reasonable conclusions aided by witness testimony, but that arguing sexual abuse was not allowed since there was nothing to support the claim that George sexually abused Casey. Baez began by contending that there were holes in the prosecution's forensic evidence, saying it was based on a \"fantasy\". He told the jury that the prosecution wanted them to see stains and insects that did not really exist, that they had not proven that the stains in Anthony's car trunk were caused by Caylee's decomposing body, rather than from a trash bag found there. He added that the prosecutors tried to make his client look like a promiscuous liar because their evidence was weak. He said the drowning is \"the only explanation that makes sense\" and showed jurors a photograph of Caylee opening the home's sliding glass door by herself. He stressed that there were no child safety locks in the home and that both of Casey's parents, George and Cindy, testified that Caylee could get out of the house easily. Although Cindy testified that Caylee could not put the ladder on the side of the pool and climb up, Baez alleged that Cindy may have left the ladder up the night before. \"She didn't admit to doing so in testimony,\" he said, \"but how much guilt would she have knowing it was her that left the ladder up that day?\"\n\nDefense attorney Jose Baez told jurors his biggest fear was that they would base their verdict on emotions, not evidence. \"The strategy behind that is, if you hate her, if you think she's a lying, no-good slut, then you'll start to look at this evidence in a different light,\" he said. \"I told you at the very beginning of this case that this was an accident that snowballed out of control... What made it unique is not what happened, but who it happened to.\" He explained Casey Anthony's behavior as being the result of her dysfunctional family situation. At one point as Baez spoke, Ashton could be seen smiling or chuckling behind his hand. This prompted Baez to refer to him as \"this laughing guy right here\". The judge called a sidebar conference, then a recess. When court resumed, he chastised both sides, saying both Ashton and Baez had violated his order that neither side should make disparaging remarks about opposing counsel. After both attorneys apologized, the judge accepted the apologies but warned that a recurrence would have the offending attorney excluded from the courtroom.\n\nDefense attorney Cheney Mason then followed with an additional closing argument. Addressing the jury to discuss the charges against Casey Anthony. \"The burden rests on the shoulders of my colleagues at the state attorney's office,\" Mason said, referring to proving that Casey Anthony committed a crime. Mason said that the jurors are required, whether they like it or not, to find the defendant not guilty if the state did not adequately prove its case against Casey Anthony. Mason emphasized that the burden of proof is on the state, and that Casey Anthony's decision not to testify is not an implication of guilt.\n\nLead prosecutor Linda Drane Burdick in the prosecution rebuttal told the jurors that she and her colleagues backed up every claim they made in their opening statement six weeks ago, and implied that the defense never directly backed up their own opening-statement claims. \"My biggest fear is that common sense will be lost in all the rhetoric of the case,\" she said, insisting that she would never ask the jury to make their decision based on emotion but rather the evidence. \"Responses to guilt are oh, so predictable,\" she stated. \"What do guilty people do? They lie, they avoid, they run, they mislead... they divert attention away from themselves and they act like nothing is wrong.\" She suggested that the garbage bag in the trunk of the car was a \"decoy\" put there to keep people from getting suspicious about the smell of the car when she left it abandoned in a parking stall directly beside a dumpster in an Amscot parking lot. \"Whose life was better without Caylee?\" she asked, stressing how George and Cindy Anthony were wondering where their daughter and granddaughter were in June and July 2008, the same time Casey was staying at her boyfriend's apartment while Caylee's body was decomposing in the woods. \"That's the only question you need to answer in considering why Caylee Marie Anthony was left on the side of the road dead.\" Burdick then showed the jury a split-screen with a photo of Casey partying at a night club on one side and a close-up of the \"Bella Vita\" (meaning \"Beautiful Life\") tattoo that she got weeks after Caylee died on the other.\n\nThe jury began deliberations on July 4. On July 5, prosecutors stated that, during deliberations, they were about to give the jury the corrected information with regard to Bradley's software discrepancy; however, the jury reached a verdict before they could do so. One legal analyst stated that if the jury had found Casey guilty before receiving the exculpatory evidence, the prosecution's failure to fully disclose it could have been grounds for a mistrial.\n\nOn July 5, 2011, the jury found Casey not guilty of counts one through three regarding first-degree murder, aggravated manslaughter of a child, and aggravated child abuse, while finding her guilty on counts four through seven for providing false information to law enforcement:\n\nOn July 7, 2011, sentencing arguments were heard. The defense asked for the sentencing to be based on one count of lying on the grounds that the offenses occurred as part of a single interview with police dealing with the same matter, the disappearance of her daughter, as one continuous lie. The defense also argued for concurrent sentences, that is for all four counts to become one count and the sentence to run together as one. The judge disagreed with defense arguments, finding that Anthony's statements consisted of \"four distinct, separate lies\" ordered the sentences be served consecutively, noting that \"Law enforcement expended a great deal of time, energy and manpower looking for Caylee Marie Anthony. This search went on from July through December, over several months, trying to find Caylee Marie Anthony.\" Judge Perry sentenced Casey to one year in the county jail and $1,000 in fines for each of the four counts of providing false information to a law enforcement officer, the maximum penalty prescribed by law. She received 1043 days credit for time served plus additional credit for good behavior, resulting in her release on July 17, 2011. Anthony filed a notice of appeal on July 15, 2011.\n\nIn September 2011, Perry, complying with a Florida statute requiring judges to assess investigative and prosecution costs if requested by a state agency, ruled that Casey Anthony must pay $217,000 to the state of Florida. He ruled she had to pay those costs directly related to lying to law enforcement about the death of Caylee, including search costs only up to September 30, 2008, when the Sheriff's Office stopped investigating a missing-child case. In earlier arguments, Mason had called the prosecutors' attempts to exact the larger sum \"sour grapes\" because the prosecution lost its case. He told reporters that Anthony is indigent.\n\nIn January 2013, a Florida appeals court reduced her convictions from four to two counts. Her attorney had argued that her false statements constituted a single offense; however, the appeals court noted she gave false information during two separate police interviews several hours apart.\n\nThe case attracted a significant amount of national media attention, and was regularly the main topic of many TV talk shows, including those hosted by Greta Van Susteren, Nancy Grace, Geraldo Rivera, and others. It has been featured on Fox's \"America's Most Wanted\", NBC's \"Dateline\", and ABC's \"20/20\". Nancy Grace referred to Casey Anthony as the \"tot mom\" and urged the public to let \"the professionals, the psychics and police\" do their jobs.\n\nCasey Anthony's parents, Cindy and George, appeared on \"The Today Show\" on October 22, 2008. They maintained their belief that Caylee was alive and would be found. Larry Garrison, president of SilverCreek Entertainment, was their spokesman until he resigned in November 2008, citing that he was leaving due to \"the Anthony family's erratic behavior\".\n\nMore than 6,000 pages of evidence released by the Orange County Sheriff's Department, including hundreds of instant messages between Casey and her ex-boyfriend Tony Rusciano, were the subject of increased scrutiny by the media for clues and possible motives in the homicide. \nOutside the Anthony home, WESH TV 2 reported that protesters repeatedly shouted \"baby killer\" and that George Anthony was physically attacked. George Anthony was reported missing on January 22, 2009, after he failed to show up for a meeting with his lawyer, Brad Conway. George was found in a Daytona Beach hotel the next day after sending messages to family members threatening suicide. He was taken to Halifax Hospital for psychiatric evaluation and later released.\n\nThe trial was commonly compared to the O. J. Simpson murder case, both for its widespread media attention and initial shock at the not-guilty verdict. At the start of the trial, dozens of people raced to the Orange County Courthouse, hoping to secure one of 50 seats open to the public at the murder trial. Because the case received such thorough media attention in Orlando, jurors were brought in from Pinellas County, Florida, and sequestered for the entire trial. The case became a \"macabre tourist attraction\", as people camped outside for seats in the courtroom, where scuffles also broke out among those wanting seats inside. The \"New York Post\" described the trial as going \"from being a newsworthy case to one of the biggest ratings draws in recent memory\", and \"Time\" magazine dubbed it \"the social media trial of the century\". Cable news channels and network news programs became intent upon covering the case as extensively as they could. Scot Safon, executive vice president of HLN, said it was \"not about policy\" but rather the \"very, very strong human dimension\" of the case that drove the network to cover it. The audience for HLN's \"Nancy Grace\" rose more than 150 percent, and other news channels deciding to focus on the trial saw their ratings double and triple. HLN achieved its most watched hour in network history (4.575 million) and peaked at 5.205 million when the verdict was read. According to \"The Christian Post\", the O. J. Simpson case had a 91 percent television viewing audience, with 142 million people listening by radio and watching television as the verdict was delivered. \"The Simpson case was the longest trial ever held in California, costing more than $20 million to fight and defend, running up 50,000 pages of trial transcript in the process.\" The Casey Anthony trial was expected to \"far exceed\" these numbers.\n\nOpinions varied on what made the public thoroughly invested in the trial. Safon argued the Anthonys having been a regular and \"unremarkable\" family with complex relationships made them intriguing to watch. In a special piece for CNN, psychologist Frank Farley described the circumstantial evidence as \"all over the map\" and that combined with \"the apparent lying, significant contradictions and flip-flops of testimony, and questionable or bizarre theories of human behavior, it is little wonder that this nation [was] glued to the tube\". He said it was a trial that was both a psychologist's dream and nightmare, and believes that much of the public's fascination [had] to do with the uncertainty of a motive for the crime. Psychologist Karyl McBride discussed how some mothers stray away from \"the saintly archetype\" expected of mothers. \"We want so badly to hang onto the belief system that mothers don't harm children,\" she stated. \"It's fascinating that the defense in the Anthony case found a way to blame the father. While we don't know what is true and maybe never will, it is worth taking a look at the narcissistic family when maternal narcissism rules the roost. Casey Anthony is a beautiful white woman and the fact that the case includes such things as sex, lies, and videotapes makes it irresistible.\"\n\nWhen the not-guilty verdict was rendered, there was significant outcry among the general public and media that the jury made the wrong decision. Outside the courthouse, many in the crowd of 500 reacted with anger, chanting their disapproval and waving protest signs. People took to Facebook and Twitter, as well as other social media outlets, to express their outrage. Traffic to news sites surged from about two million page views a minute to 3.3 million, with most of the visits coming from the United States. Mashable reported that between 2 pm and 3 pm, one million viewers were watching CNN.com/live, 30 times higher than the previous month's average. Twitter's trending topics in the United States were mostly about the subjects related to the case, and Newser reported that posts on Facebook were coming in \"too fast for all Facebook to even count them, meaning at least 10 per second\". Some people referred to the verdict as \"O.J. Number 2\", and various media personalities and celebrities expressed outrage via Twitter. News anchor Julie Chen became visibly upset while reading the not-guilty verdict on \"The Talk\" and had to be assisted by her fellow co-hosts, who also expressed their dismay.\n\nOthers, such as Sean Hannity of the Fox News Channel, felt the verdict was fair because the prosecution did not have enough evidence to establish guilt or meet its burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt. Hannity said that the verdict was legally correct, and that all of the evidence that was presented by the prosecution was either impeached or contradicted by the defense. John Cloud of \"Time\" magazine echoed these sentiments, saying the jury made the right call: \"Anthony got off because the prosecution couldn't answer [the questions],\" Cloud stated. \"Because the prosecutors had so little physical evidence, they built their case on Anthony's (nearly imperceptible) moral character. The prosecutors seemed to think that if jurors saw what a fantastic liar Anthony was, they would understand that she could also be a murderer.\"\n\nDisagreement with the verdict was heavily debated by the media, lawyers and psychologists, who put forth several theories for public dissatisfaction with the decision, ranging from wanting justice for Caylee, to the circumstantial evidence having been strong enough, to some blaming the media. UCLA forensic psychiatrist Dr. Carole Lieberman, said, \"The main reason that people are reacting so strongly is that the media convicted Casey before the jury decided on the verdict. The public has been whipped up into this frenzy wanting revenge for this poor little adorable child. And because of the desire for revenge, they've been whipped up into a lynch mob.\" She added, \"Nobody likes a liar, and Anthony was a habitual liar. And nobody liked the fact that she was partying after Caylee's death. Casey obviously has a lot of psychological problems. Whether she murdered her daughter or not is another thing.\"\n\nThere was a gender gap in perceptions to the case. According to a \"USA Today\"/Gallup Poll of 1,010 respondents, about two-thirds of Americans (64 percent) believed Casey Anthony \"definitely\" or \"probably\" murdered her daughter; however, women were much more likely than men to believe the murder charges against Anthony and to be upset by the not-guilty verdict. The poll reported that women were more than twice as likely as men, 28 percent versus 11 percent, to think Anthony \"definitely\" committed murder. Twenty-seven percent of women said they were angry about the verdict, compared with nine percent of men. On the day Casey Anthony was sentenced for lying to investigators in the death of her daughter, supporters and protesters gathered outside the Orange County Courthouse, with one man who displayed a sign asking Anthony to marry him. Two men who drove overnight from West Virginia held signs that said, \"We love and support you Casey Anthony,\" and \"Nancy Grace, stop trying to ruin innocent lives. The jury has spoken. P.S. Our legal system still works!\" The gender gap has partly been explained by \"the maternal instinct\". The idea of a mother murdering her own child is a threat to the ideal of motherhood. For example, the trial was compared to the 1960s trial of Alice Crimmins, who was accused of murdering her two small children.\n\nExplanations other than, or emphasizing, the prosecution's lack of forensic evidence were given for the jury's decision. A number of media commentators reasoned that the prosecution overcharged the case by tagging on the death penalty, concluding that people in good conscience could not sentence Anthony to death based on the circumstantial evidence presented. The CSI effect was also extensively argued—that society now lives \"in a 'CSI age' where everyone expects fingerprints and DNA, and we are sending a message that old-fashioned circumstantial evidence is not sufficient\". Likewise, commentators such as O. J. Simpson case prosecutor Marcia Clark believe that the jury interpreted \"reasonable doubt\" too narrowly. Clark said instruction on reasonable doubt is \"the hardest, most elusive\" instruction of all. \"And I think it's where even the most fair-minded jurors can get derailed,\" she said, opining the confusion between \"reasonable doubt\" and \"a reason to doubt\". \"In Scotland, they have three verdicts: guilty, not guilty, and not proven. It's one way of showing that even if the jury didn't believe the evidence amounted to proof beyond a reasonable doubt, it didn't find the defendant innocent either. There's a difference.\"\n\nFollowing the criminal trial, Mason blamed the media for the passionate hatred directed toward Anthony. He described it as a \"media assassination\" of her before and during the trial, saying, \"I hope that this is a lesson to those of you who have indulged in media assassination for three years, bias, and prejudice, and incompetent talking heads saying what would be and how to be.\" Mason added: \"I can tell you that my colleagues from coast to coast and border to border have condemned this whole process of lawyers getting on television and talking about cases that they don't know a damn thing about, and don't have the experience to back up their words or the law to do it. Now you have learned a lesson.\"\n\nMason's response was viewed as especially critical of Nancy Grace, whose news program is cited as having \"almost single-handedly inflated the Anthony case from a routine local murder into a national obsession\". Grace said that she did not understand why Mason would care what pundits are saying, and that she imagines she has tried and covered as many cases as Mason. She criticized the defense attorneys for delivering media criticism before mentioning Caylee's name in their post-verdict news conference, and said she disagrees with the verdict. At a meeting of local professionals, named the Tiger Bay Club of Tampa, Mason told the media and those in attendance that he was surprised by the not-guilty verdict.\n\nState's Attorney Lawson Lamar said, \"We're disappointed in the verdict today because we know the facts and we've put in absolutely every piece of evidence that existed. This is a dry-bones case. Very, very difficult to prove. The delay in recovering little Caylee's remains worked to our considerable disadvantage.\" Jose Baez said, \"While we're happy for Casey, there are no winners in this case. Caylee has passed on far, far too soon, and what my driving force has been for the last three years has been always to make sure that there has been justice for Caylee and Casey because Casey did not murder Caylee. It's that simple.\" He added, \"And today our system of justice has not dishonored her memory by a false conviction.\" Former Casey Anthony defense attorney Linda Kenney Baden shared Baez's sentiments. She believes the jury reached the right verdict. \"We should embrace their verdict,\" she stated.\n\nOn July 6, 2011, Jeff Ashton gave his first interview about the case on \"The View\". Ashton said of the verdict, \"Obviously, it's not the outcome we wanted. But from the perspective of what we do, this was a fantastic case.\" He disagrees with those who state the prosecution overcharged the case, saying, \"The facts that we had... this was first-degree murder. I think it all came down to the evidence. I think ultimately it came down to the cause of death.\" Ashton additionally explained that if the jury did not perceive first-degree murder when they saw the photograph of Caylee's skull with the duct tape, \"then so be it\". He said he accepts the jury's decision and that it has not taken away his faith in the justice system. \"You can't believe in the rule of law and not accept that sometimes it doesn't go the way you think it should,\" stated Ashton, and explained that he understands why the case \"struck such a nerve\" with the public. \"I think when people see someone that they believe has so gone away from [a mother's love for her child], it just outrages them.\" Ashton also made appearances on several other talk shows in the days following, and complimented Jose Baez on his cross-examinations and as having \"the potential to be a great attorney\".\n\nAfter the trial ended, the twelve jurors did not initially want to discuss the verdict with the media. 51-year-old Russell Huekler, an alternative juror who stepped forward the day of the verdict, said, \"The prosecution didn't provide the evidence that was there for any of the charges from first-degree murder down to second-degree murder to the child abuse to even the manslaughter [charge]. It just wasn't there.\"\n\nThe next day, juror number three—Jennifer Ford, a 32-year-old nursing student—told ABC News, \"I did not say she was innocent\" and \"I just said there was not enough evidence. If you cannot prove what the crime was, you cannot determine what the punishment should be.\" She added, \"I'm not saying that I believe the defense,\" but that \"it's easier for me logically to get from point A to point B\" via the defense argument, as opposed to the prosecution argument. Ford believed George Anthony was \"dishonest.\" She said the jury \"was sick to [their] stomachs to get [the not-guilty] verdict\" and that the decision process overwhelmed them to the point where they did not want to talk to reporters afterwards. Juror number two, a 46-year-old male who requested to stay unidentified, told the \"St. Petersburg Times\" that \"everybody agreed if we were going fully on feelings and emotions, [Anthony] was done\". He stated that a lack of evidence was the reason for the not-guilty verdict: \"I just swear to God ... I wish we had more evidence to put her away. I truly do ... But it wasn't there.\" He also said that Anthony was \"not a good person in my opinion\". Juror number six, identified by WTSP as Brian Berling, told gossip website TMZ.com that he was willing to be interviewed \"so long as the opportunities are paid\".\n\nIn an anonymous interview, the jury foreman stated, \"When I had to sign off on the verdict, the sheet that was given to me—there was just a feeling of disgust that came over me knowing that my signature and [Casey Anthony's] signature were going to be on the same sheet,\" but that \"there was a suspicion of [George Anthony]\" that played a part in the jury's deliberations. The foreman stated his work experience enabled him to read people and that George Anthony \"had a very selective memory\" which stayed with the jurors, emphasizing that the jury was frustrated by the motive, cause of death, and George Anthony. \"That a mother would want to do something like that to her child just because she wanted to go out and party,\" he said. \"We felt that the motive that the state provided was, in our eyes, was just kind of weak.\" Although the foreman objected to Casey Anthony's behavior in the wake of her daughter's death, he and the jury did not factor that behavior into their verdict because it was not illegal. They initially took a vote on the murder count, which was 10–2 (two voting guilty), but after more than ten hours of deliberation, they decided the only charges they felt were proven were the four counts of lying to law enforcement.\n\nPerry announced at sentencing on July 7 that he would withhold the jurors' names for several months because of concern that \"Some people would like to take something out on them.\" He released the jurors' names on October 25, 2011. On May 6, 2013, he stated that he believed there was sufficient evidence to convict Casey Anthony, even though most of the evidence was circumstantial, and that he was shocked by the not-guilty verdict.\n\nMark Lippman, the attorney for George and Cindy Anthony, told ABC News that the family received death threats after the not-guilty verdict was rendered. In response to the verdict, a statement was released by Lippman on behalf of the Anthony family (George, Cindy and Lee Anthony):\nWhile the family may never know what has happened to Caylee Marie Anthony, they now have closure for this chapter of their life. They will now begin the long process of rebuilding their lives. Despite the baseless defense chosen by Casey Anthony, the family believes that the Jury made a fair decision based on the evidence presented, the testimony presented, the scientific information presented and the rules that were given to them by the Honorable Judge Perry to guide them. The family hopes that they will be given the time by the media to reflect on this verdict and decide the best way to move forward privately.\n\nIt was alleged in press reports that Cindy Anthony had perjured herself when telling jurors she—not Casey Anthony—was the one who used her family computer to search the Internet for \"chloroform\". The state attorney's office said she would not be charged.\n\nOn July 6, 2011, Anthony's jailhouse letters were released to the general public. They were originally released (though not to public) in April 2010 by prosecutors preparing for the Anthony trial. In more than 250 handwritten pages, Anthony discusses her life in jail, what she misses, and her plans for the future if freed. On July 8, 2011, Cindy Anthony had scheduled a visit to meet with Casey at 7 pm, but the visit was denied. \"This morning under policy, Casey was told of the visit and she has declined the visit so it will not occur,\" said jail spokesman Allen Moore. Moore also said that Cindy would be notified of her daughter's decision. Mark Lippman told Reuters during the trial that Casey had cut off communication with her parents. It was later announced that George and Cindy Anthony would be appearing on \"Dr. Phil\" in September 2011 to tell their story.\n\nCasey left for an undisclosed location not long after the verdict. However, on August 12, she was ordered to return to Florida to serve a year's supervised probation for an unrelated check-fraud conviction. When she pleaded guilty to that charge in January 2010, the judge in that case intended for Casey to serve her probation after proceedings in the murder case concluded, but an error in the sentencing documents allowed her to serve her probation while awaiting trial. Casey returned to Florida on August 25 and is serving out her probation in an undisclosed location. Due to numerous threats against her life, the Department of Corrections did not enter her information into the state parolee database. In August 2011, George and Cindy issued a statement that Casey would not be living at their home when she returned to Florida to serve her probation. According to \"Huffington Post\", she was reportedly working with her probation officer to take online college classes in an unspecified field, while protected by her security, at an undisclosed educational institution.\n\nIn August 2011, the Florida Department of Children and Families released a report based on a three-year investigation into the disappearance and death of Caylee. An agency spokesperson stated, \"It is the conclusion of the [DCF] that [Casey Anthony] failed to protect her child from harm either through her actions or lack of actions, which tragically resulted in the child's untimely death.\"\n\nCasey filed bankruptcy with the Middle District of Florida Bankruptcy Court on January 27, 2013. Her estimated liabilities were between $500,000 and $1 million.\n\nIn September 2008, Zenaida Fernandez-Gonzalez sued Casey for defamation. During the investigation, Anthony told investigators that she left 2½-year-old Caylee with a babysitter named Zenaida Fernandez-Gonzalez—also known as \"Zanny\"—on June 16 at the stairs of a specific apartment in the Sawgrass apartment complex located in Orlando. Fernandez-Gonzalez, who was listed on apartment records as having visited apartments on that date, was questioned by police, but stated she did not know Casey or Caylee. Her defamation suit seeks compensatory and punitive damages, alleging that Casey willfully damaged her reputation. Fernandez-Gonzalez has told reporters that she lost her job, was evicted from her house, and received death threats against herself and her children as a result of Anthony's lies. Fernandez-Gonzalez' lawyer, John Morgan, said he wants to interrogate Anthony about Caylee's death because it is \"the essence\" of the defamation suit.\n\nOn October 8, 2011, Morgan deposed Casey via a video conference. She exercised her Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination and answered only a couple of factual questions. Morgan felt that was improper, but legal experts think that Anthony is well within her rights to plead the Fifth until her appeals of the convictions for lying to officers are exhausted. Fernandez-Gonzalez' attorneys sought and received permission to obtain Anthony's address (though it was kept sealed from the public) so they could subpoena her to testify, even if she only took the stand long enough to plead the Fifth. However, Fernandez-Gonzalez is willing to drop the suit if Anthony apologizes to her and compensates her for pain and suffering. In September 2015, a judge ruled in favor of Anthony, stating: \"There is nothing in the statement…to support (Fernandez-Gonzalez's) allegations that (Anthony) intended to portray (the nanny) as a child kidnapper and potentially a child killer.\"\n\nIn July 2011, Texas EquuSearch (TES), a non-profit group which assisted in the search for Caylee from July to December 2008 when she was believed to be missing, sued Anthony for fraud and unjust enrichment. TES estimates that it spent more than $100,000 searching for Caylee even though she was already dead. TES founder and director Tim Miller estimates that the abortive search for Caylee expended 40% of the group's yearly resources which could have been spent looking for other missing children. It only learned that Anthony knew all along that Caylee was dead when the trial began. TES and Anthony eventually settled out of court on October 18, 2013. TES was listed as a creditor to Anthony and was entitled to $75,000.\n\nSince the end of the trial, various movements have arisen for the creation of a new law, called \"Caylee's Law\", that would impose stricter requirements on parents to notify law enforcement of the death or disappearance of a child. One such petition, circulated via Change.org, has gained nearly 1.3 million electronic signatures. In response to this and other petitions, lawmakers in four states—Florida, Oklahoma, New York, and West Virginia—have begun drafting versions of \"Caylee's Law\". The law in Oklahoma would require a child's parent or guardian to notify police of a missing child within 24 hours, and would also stipulate a time frame for notification of the disappearance of a young child under the age of 12. The Florida law would make it a felony if a parent or legal guardian fails to report a missing child in timely manner if they could have known the child would be in danger. The call for mandatory reporting laws has been criticized as being \"reactive, overly indiscriminating and even counterproductive\". One critic noted the law could lead to overcompliance and false reports by parents wary of becoming suspects, wasting police resources and leading to legitimate abductions going uninvestigated during the critical first few hours. Additionally innocent people could get snared in the law for searching for a child instead of immediately calling police.\n\nDifferent artists have written songs in Caylee's memory, often titled \"Caylee's Song\". Jon Whynock performed his own version at her memorial service in February 2009, and Sheffield songwriter Earl \"Peanutt\" Montgomery, an Alabama Music Hall of Fame member known for writing hits for country artist George Jones, penned a \"Caylee's Song\" soon after hearing the verdict. \"Me and my wife talked about it, and I decided to do it,\" said Montgomery. He sent an MP3 of \"Caylee\" to CNN and the cable news show \"Nancy Grace\", as well as to various radio stations and Internet radio stations. Rascal Flatts' Gary LeVox collaborated with country comedian and radio host Cledus T. Judd and songwriter Jimmy Yeary to write a song titled \"She's Going Places\" in Caylee's memory, which would be performed by singer Shane Hines. On July 8, 2011, Grace played it for her audience.\n\nIn November 2012, WKMG-TV television in Orlando reported that police never investigated Firefox browser evidence on Casey's computer the day of Caylee's death; they only looked at Internet Explorer evidence. The browser history showed that someone at the Anthony household, using a password-protected account Casey used, did a Firefox Google search for \"foolproof suffocation\" at 2:51 p.m. and then clicked on an article criticizing pro-suicide websites promoting \"foolproof\" ways to die, including the idea of committing suicide by taking poison and putting a plastic bag over one's head. The browser then recorded activity on MySpace, a site used by Casey but not George. The station learned about this information from Casey's attorney Jose Baez who mentioned it in his book on the case, speculating that George had contemplated suicide after Caylee's death. He conceded to reporters that the records are open to interpretation; however, he speculated that the state may have chosen not to introduce the search at trial because, according to Baez, the computer records tend to refute the timeline stated by George, which was that Casey left at 12:50 p.m. An analysis by John Goetz, a retired engineer and computer expert in Connecticut, revealed that her password-protected computer account shows activity on the home computer at 1:39 p.m., with activity on her AIM account, as well as MySpace and Facebook.\n\nIn April 2016, transcripts of two 2015 affidavits of private investigator Dominic Casey were filed on the court docket in the matter of \"Kronk v. Anthony\" and picked up by news services in May 2016. In one affidavit, Casey stated that on July 26, 2008, Baez admitted to him that Casey Anthony murdered Caylee Anthony \"and dumped the body somewhere and, he needed all the help he could get to find the body before anyone else did\". He also claimed that Baez had a sexual relationship with Anthony, and that \"Casey told me she had to do what Jose said because she had no money for her defense.\" Baez \"vehemently\" denied a sexual relationship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9567", "title": "Egoism", "text": "Egoism\n\nEgoism is an ethical theory that treats self-interest as the foundation of morality.\n\nLatin word \"ego\" meaning \"I\".\n\n\nThe terms \"egoism\" and \"egotism\" may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3295601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3295601", "title": "Enzyme replacement therapy", "text": "Enzyme replacement therapy\n\nEnzyme replacement therapy (ERT) is a medical treatment which replaces an enzyme that is deficient or absent in the body. Usually, this is done by giving the patient an intravenous (IV) infusion of a solution containing the enzyme.\n\nERT is currently available for some lysosomal storage diseases: Gaucher disease, Fabry disease, MPS I, MPS II (Hunter syndrome), MPS VI and Pompe disease. ERT does not correct the underlying genetic defect, but it increases the concentration of the enzyme that the patient is lacking. ERT has also been used to treat patients with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) resulting from an adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADA-SCID).\n\nOther treatment options for patients with enzyme or protein deficiencies include substrate reduction therapy, gene therapy, and bone-marrow derived stem cell transplantation.\n\nERT was developed in 1964 by Christian de Duve and Roscoe Brady. Leading work was done on this subject at the Department of Physiology at the University of Alberta by Mark J. Poznansky and Damyanti Bhardwaj, where a model for enzyme therapy was developed using rats. ERT was not used in clinical practice until 1991, after the FDA gave orphan drug approval for the treatment of Gaucher disease with Alglucerase. ERTs were initially manufactured by isolating the therapeutic enzyme from human placenta. The FDA has now approved ERTs that are derived from other human cells, animal cells (i.e. Chinese hamster ovary cells, or CHO cells), and plant cells.\n\nLysosomal storage diseases are fatal group of diseases and a main application of ERT. Lysosomes are cellular organelles that are responsible for the metabolism of many different macromolecules and proteins. They use enzymes to break down macromolecules, which are recycled or disposed. As of 2012, there are 50 lysosomal storage diseases, and more are still being discovered. These disorders arise because of genetic mutations that prevent the production of certain enzymes used in the lysosomes. The missing enzyme often leads to a build-up of the substrate within the body. This can result in a variety of symptoms, many of which are severe and can affect the skeleton, brain, skin, heart, and the central nervous system. Increasing the concentration of the missing enzyme within the body has been shown to improve the body's normal cellular metabolic processes and reduce substrate concentration in the body.\n\nERT has also been successful in treating severe combined immunodeficiency caused by an adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADA-SCID). This is a fatal childhood disease that requires early medical intervention. When the enzyme adenosine deaminase is deficient in the body, the result is a toxic build-up of metabolites that impair lymphocyte development and function. Many ADA deficient children with SCID have been treated with the polyethylene glycol-conjugated adenosine deaminase (PEG-ADA) enzyme. This is a form of ERT that has resulted in healthier, longer lives for patients with ADA-SCID.\nERT is administered by IV infusion. Typically, infusions occur every week or every two weeks. For some types of ERT, these infusions can occur as infrequently as every four weeks.\n\nERT is not a cure for lysosomal storage diseases, and it requires lifelong IV infusions of the therapeutic enzyme. This procedure is expensive; in the United States, it may cost over $200,000 annually. The distribution of the therapeutic enzyme in the body (biodistribution) after these IV infusions is not uniform. The enzyme in less available to certain areas in the body, like the bones, lungs, brain. For this reason, many symptoms of lysosomal storage diseases remain untreated by ERT, especially neurological symptoms. Additionally, the efficacy of ERT is often reduced due to an unwanted immune response against the enzyme, which prevents metabolic function.\n\nSubstrate reduction therapy is another method for treating lysosomal storage diseases. In this treatment, the accumulated compounds are inhibited from forming in the body of a patient suffering from a lysosomal storage disease. The accumulated compounds are responsible for the symptoms of these disorders, and they form via a multi-step biological pathway. Substrate reduction therapy uses a small molecule to interrupt this multi-step pathway and inhibit the biosynthesis of these compounds. This type of treatment is taken orally. It does not induce an unwanted immune response, and a single type of small molecule could be used to treat many lysosomal storage diseases. Substrate reduction therapy is FDA approved and there is at least one treatment available on the market.\n\nGene therapy aims to replace a missing protein in the body through the use of vectors, usually viral vectors. In gene therapy, a gene encoding for a certain protein is inserted into a vector. The vector containing the therapeutic gene is then injected into the patient. Once inside the body the vector introduces the therapeutic gene into host cells, and the protein encoded by the newly inserted gene is then produced by the body's own cells. This type of therapy can correct for the missing protein/enzyme in patients with lysosomal storage diseases.\n\nHematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation is another treatment for lysosomal storage diseases. HSCs are derived from bone-marrow. These cells have the ability to mature into the many cell types that comprise blood, including red blood cells, platelets, and white blood cells. Patients suffering from enzyme deficiencies often undergo HSC transplantations in which HSCs from a healthy donor are injected. This treatment introduces HSCs that regularly produce the deficient enzyme since they have normal metabolic function. This treatment is often used to treat the central nervous system of patients with some lysosomal storage diseases.\n\n"}
{"id": "34495462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34495462", "title": "Erik Aadahl", "text": "Erik Aadahl\n\nErik Aadahl (born September 16, 1976) is an American sound editor.\n\nHe graduated from the University of Southern California's School of Cinematic Arts in 1998. He was supervising sound editor on \"\", for which he was nominated for an Academy Award. Aadahl notably worked on Godzilla's \"roar\" for the 2014 \"Godzilla\" film and voiced Bumblebee in \"\".\n"}
{"id": "1688798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1688798", "title": "Ernest E. Evans", "text": "Ernest E. Evans\n\nErnest Edwin Evans (August 13, 1908 – October 25, 1944) was an officer of the United States Navy who posthumously received the Medal of Honor for his actions during the Battle off Samar in World War II.\n\nEvans, of Native American ancestry (half Cherokee and one quarter Creek), was born in Pawnee, Oklahoma. He graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1931.\n\nOn 9 August 1941, he was assigned to the destroyer , and was serving on her in the East Indies when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor on December 7 of that year. He became commanding officer of \"Alden\" on 14 March 1942, and held that position until 7 July 1943. While serving on \"Alden\" he participated in operations in and around Australia, New Guinea and the Dutch East Indies.\n\nIn mid-1943 Evans was then ordered to duty in charge of fitting out the at the Seattle-Tacoma Shipbuilding Corporation in Seattle, Washington. Commander Evans assumed command of \"Johnston\" at her commissioning on 27 October 1943. He was awarded the Bronze Star for meritorious achievement in action against a Japanese submarine on May 16, 1944.\n\nIn the Battle off Samar, a part of the Battle of Leyte Gulf, Evans fought his ship gallantly until it was sunk on October 25, 1944, by a Japanese force that was vastly superior in number, firepower, and armor. \"Johnston\", together with the destroyers and , four destroyer escorts and six escort carriers (CVEs), formed the task unit 77.4.3, known as Taffy 3. This group, together with planes from Taffy 2 (TU 77.4.2), ultimately forced a Japanese battlegroup consisting of several battleships, heavy cruisers, light cruisers and destroyers to abort its original mission to attack the landing beaches at Leyte under the command of General Douglas MacArthur and retreat. The famous battle is popularly known as \"The Last Stand of the Tin Can Sailors,\" after the 2004 book of the same title.\n\nWhen the Japanese fleet during the Battle off Samar was first sighted, Evans did not hesitate. He ordered his helm sharp to port and he led his destroyer out of the task unit's circular antiaircraft disposition in favor of charging the enemy alone to make a torpedo attack. Some claim that Evans told his crew over the ship's intercom: \"A large Japanese fleet has been contacted. They are fifteen miles away and headed in our direction. They are believed to have four battleships, eight cruisers, and a number of destroyers. This will be a fight against overwhelming odds from which survival cannot be expected. We will do what damage we can.\" However, contemporaneous sources credit the latter part of this dramatic announcement to LCDR Robert W. Copeland of the , who charged in with Evans on a subsequent torpedo attack.\n\nThe fate of the \"Johnston\"s captain was never conclusively established, and remains the subject of continuing conjecture among the ship's survivors. Some claim that he was hit by Japanese naval shellfire; others that he was able to jump into a damaged motor whaleboat. What is known is that he was seriously wounded during the battle; that he lived long enough to give the abandon ship order; and that he was not among those rescued. Evans was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for his material contribution to the decisive victory won in Leyte Gulf and shared in the Presidential Unit Citation awarded his group for this action in which he gave his life.\n\nIn 1955, the destroyer escort was named in his honor. It was decommissioned in 1968, and no active ship carries the name of \"Evans\" or \"Johnston\", although a number of active ships have been named for \"Samuel B. Roberts\" and her crew. On November 12, 2013, a petition was created to name a ship after Evans.\n\nOn May 23, 2013, the Naval Station Newport, Newport, Rhode Island, Surface Warfare Officers School's virtual simulator for shiphandling training was dedicated as the \"Evans Full Mission-2 Simulator\" in Evans' honor.\n\n\"For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty as commanding officer of the U.S.S. Johnston in action against major units of the enemy Japanese fleet during the battle off Samar on 25 October 1944. The first to lay a smokescreen and to open fire as an enemy task force, vastly superior in number, firepower and armor, rapidly approached. Comdr. Evans gallantly diverted the powerful blasts of hostile guns from the lightly armed and armored carriers under his protection, launching the first torpedo attack when the Johnston came under straddling Japanese shellfire. Undaunted by damage sustained under the terrific volume of fire, he unhesitatingly joined others of his group to provide fire support during subsequent torpedo attacks against the Japanese and, outshooting and outmaneuvering the enemy as he consistently interposed his vessel between the hostile fleet units and our carriers despite the crippling loss of engine power and communications with steering aft, shifted command to the fantail, shouted steering orders through an open hatch to men turning the rudder by hand and battled furiously until the Johnston, burning and shuddering from a mortal blow, lay dead in the water after 3 hours of fierce combat. Seriously wounded early in the engagement, Comdr. Evans, by his indomitable courage and brilliant professional skill, aided materially in turning back the enemy during a critical phase of the action. His valiant fighting spirit throughout this historic battle will venture as an inspiration to all who served with him.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13115", "title": "Gametophyte", "text": "Gametophyte\n\nA gametophyte () is one of the two alternating phases in the life cycle of plants and algae. It is a haploid multicellular organism that develops from a haploid spore that has one set of chromosomes. The gametophyte is the sexual phase in the life cycle of plants and algae. It develops sex organs that produce gametes, haploid sex cells that participate in fertilization to form a diploid zygote which has two sets of chromosomes. Cell division of the zygote results in a new diploid multicellular organism, the second stage in the life cycle known as the sporophyte, the function of which is to produce haploid spores by meiosis.\n\nIn some multicellular green algae (\"Ulva lactuca\" is one example), red algae and brown algae, sporophytes and gametophytes may be externally indistinguishable (isomorphic). In \"Ulva\" the gametes are isogamous, all of one size, shape and general morphology.\n\nIn land plants, anisogamy is universal. As in animals, female and male gametes are called, respectively, \"eggs\" and \"sperm.\" In extant land plants, either the sporophyte or the gametophyte may be reduced (heteromorphic).\n\nIn bryophytes (mosses, liverworts, and hornworts), the gametophyte is the most visible stage of the life cycle. The bryophyte gametophyte is longer lived, nutritionally independent, and the sporophytes are typically attached to the gametophytes and dependent on them. When a moss spore germinates it grows to produce a filament of cells (called the protonema). The mature gametophyte of mosses develops into leafy shoots that produce sex organs (gametangia) that produce gametes. Eggs develop in archegonia and sperm in antheridia.\n\nIn some bryophyte groups such as many liverworts of the order Marchantiales, the gametes are produced on specialized structures called gametophores (or gametangiophores).\n\nAll vascular plants are sporophyte dominant, and a trend toward smaller and more sporophyte-dependent female gametophytes is evident as land plants evolved towards reproduction by seeds.\nVascular plants such as ferns that produce only one type of spore are said to be homosporous. They have exosporic gametophytes—that is, the gametophyte is free-living and develops outside of the spore wall. Exosporic gametophytes can either be bisexual, capable of producing both sperm and eggs in the same thallus (monoicous), or specialized into separate male and female organisms (dioicous). \n\nIn heterosporous vascular plants (plants that produce both microspores and megaspores), the gametophyte develops endosporically, within the spore wall. These gametophytes are dioicous, producing either sperm or eggs but not both.\n\nIn most ferns, for example, in the leptosporangiate fern \"Dryopteris\", the gametophyte is a photosynthetic free living autotrophic organism called a prothallus that produces gametes and maintains the sporophyte during its early multicellular development. However, in some groups, notably the clade that includes Ophioglossaceae and \"Psilotaceae\", the gametophytes are subterranean and subsist by forming mycotrophic relationships with fungi.\n\nExtant lycophytes produce two different types of gametophytes. In the families Lycopodiaceae and Huperziaceae, germinating spores into free-living, subterranean and mycotrophic, gametophytes that derive nutrients from symbiosis with fungi. In \"Isoetes\" and \"Selaginella\", which are heterosporous, the megaspore remains attached to the parent sporophyte and a highly reduced megagametophyte develops inside. At maturity, the megaspore cracks open at the trilete suture to allow the male gametes to access the egg cells in the archegonia inside. The gametophytes of \"Isoetes\" appear to be similar in this respect to those of the extinct Carboniferous giant arborescent clubmosses, \"Lepidodendron\" and \"Lepidostrobus\".\n\nThe seed plants (gymnosperms and angiosperms) are endosporic and heterosporous. The gametophytes develop into multicellular organisms while still enclosed within the spore wall, and the megaspores are retained within the sporangium. \n\nIn plants with heteromorphic gametophytes, there are two distinct kinds of gametophytes. Because the two gametophytes differ in form and function, they are termed \"heteromorphic\", from \"hetero\"- \"different\" and \"morph\" \"form\". The egg producing gametophyte is known as a megagametophyte, because it is typically larger, and the sperm producing gametophyte is known as a microgametophyte. Gametophytes which produce egg and sperm on separate plants are termed Dioicous.\n\nIn heterosporous plants (water ferns, some lycophytes, as well as all gymnosperms and angiosperms), there are two distinct sporangia, each of which produces a single kind of spore and single kind of gametophyte. However, not all heteromorphic gametophytes come from heterosporous plants. That is, some plants have distinct egg-producing and sperm-producing gametophytes, but these gametophytes develop from the same kind of spore inside the same sporangium; \"Sphaerocarpos\" is an example of such a plant.\n\nIn the seed plants, the microgametophyte is called pollen. Seed plant microgametophytes consists of two or three cells when the pollen grains exit the sporangium. The megagametophyte develops within the megaspore of extant seedless vascular plants and within the megasporangium in a cone or flower in seed plants. In seed plants, the microgametophyte (pollen grain) travels to the vicinity of the egg cell (carried by a physical or animal vector), and produces two sperm by mitosis.\n\nIn gymnosperms the megagametophyte consists of several thousand cells and produces one to several archegonia, each with a single egg cell. The gametophyte becomes a food storage tissue in the seed.\n\nIn angiosperms, the megagametophyte is reduced to only a few nuclei and cells, and is sometimes called the embryo sac. A typical embryo sac contains seven cells and eight nuclei, one of which is the egg cell. Two nuclei fuse with a sperm nucleus to form endosperm, which becomes the food storage tissue in the seed.\n\n"}
{"id": "50569499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50569499", "title": "Gated recurrent unit", "text": "Gated recurrent unit\n\nGated recurrent units (GRUs) are a gating mechanism in recurrent neural networks, introduced in 2014 by Kyunghyun Cho et al. Their performance on polyphonic music modeling and speech signal modeling was found to be similar to that of long short-term memory (LSTM). However, GRUs have been shown to exhibit better performance on smaller datasets.\n\nThey have fewer parameters than LSTM, as they lack an output gate.\n\nThere are several variations on the full gated unit, with gating done using the previous hidden state and the bias in various combinations, and a simplified form called minimal gated unit.\n\nThe operator formula_1 denotes the Hadamard product in the following.\n\nInitially, for formula_2, the output vector is formula_3. \n\nVariables\n\nActivation functions\nAlternative activation functions are possible, provided that formula_14.\n\nAlternate forms can be created by changing formula_7 and formula_8 \n\nThe minimal gated unit is similar to the fully gated unit, except the update and reset gate vector is merged into a forget gate. This also implies that the equation for the output vector must be changed \n\nVariables\n\n"}
{"id": "347098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=347098", "title": "Going postal", "text": "Going postal\n\nGoing postal is an American English slang phrase referring to becoming extremely and uncontrollably angry, often to the point of violence, and usually in a workplace environment. The expression derives from a series of incidents from 1986 onward in which United States Postal Service (USPS) workers shot and killed managers, fellow workers, and members of the police or general public in acts of mass murder. Between 1970 and 1997, more than 40 people were killed by current or former employees in at least 20 incidents of workplace rage. Between 1986 and 2011, workplace shootings happened at roughly two per year, with an average of 12 people killed per year.\n\nThe earliest known use of the phrase was on December 17, 1993, in the \"St. Petersburg Times\":\n\nOn December 31, 1993, the \"Los Angeles Times\" stated:\n\nOn August 20, 1986, during the Edmond post office shooting, 14 employees were shot and killed and six were wounded at the Edmond, Oklahoma, post office by Patrick Sherrill, a postman who then committed suicide with a shot to the forehead.\n\nA former United States postal worker, Joseph M. Harris, killed his former supervisor, Carol Ott, and killed her boyfriend, Cornelius Kasten Jr., at their home. The following morning, on October 10, 1991, Harris shot and killed two mail handlers, Joseph M. VanderPaauw, 59, of Prospect Park, New Jersey, and Donald McNaught, 63, of Pompton Lakes, New Jersey, at the Ridgewood Post Office.\n\nOn November 14, 1991 in Royal Oak, Michigan, Thomas McIlvane killed five people, including himself, with a rifle in Royal Oak's post office, after being fired from the Postal Service for \"insubordination.\" He had been previously suspended for getting into altercations with postal customers on his route.\n\nFor some time prior to the Royal Oak incident the service had experienced labor/management and operational problems and customer service complaints. This had drawn the attention of local media. The Office of Senator Carl Levin investigated Royal Oak, the results of which were summarized in a September 10, 1991, staff memorandum. The memorandum documented \"patterns of harassment, intimidation, cruelty and allegations of favoritism in promotions and demotions ... [and] testimony relating to wide-ranging delivery and service problems\" prior to the McIlvane shooting.\n\nTwo shootings took place on the same day, May 6, 1993, a few hours apart. At a post office in Dearborn, Michigan, Lawrence Jasion wounded three and killed one, and subsequently killed himself. In Dana Point, California, Mark Richard Hilbun killed his mother and her dog, then shot two postal workers dead.\nAs a result of these two shootings, in 1993 the USPS created 85 Workplace Environment Analysts for domicile at its 85 postal districts. These new positions were created to help with violence prevention and workplace improvement. In February 2009, the USPS unilaterally eliminated these positions as part of its downsizing efforts.\n\nJennifer San Marco, a former postal employee, killed six postal employees before committing suicide with a handgun, on the evening of January 30, 2006, at a large postal processing facility in Goleta, California. Police later also identified a seventh victim dead in a condominium complex in Goleta where San Marco once lived. According to media reports, the Postal Service had forced San Marco to retire in 2003 because of her worsening mental problems. This incident is believed to be the deadliest workplace shooting ever carried out in the United States by a woman.\n\nGrant Gallaher, a letter carrier in Baker City, Oregon, pleaded guilty to the April 4, 2006 murder of his supervisor. He reportedly brought his .357 Magnum revolver to the city post office with the intention of killing his postmaster. When he arrived at the parking lot, he reportedly ran over his supervisor several times. He then went into the post office looking for his postmaster. Not finding him, he went back out to the parking lot and shot his supervisor. Gallaher was on a new route for three weeks and had felt pressured by a week-long work-time study and extra time added to his new route.\n\nOn June 14, 2017, Jimmy Lam, 38, fatally shot three coworkers at a United Parcel Service (UPS) facility in the Potrero Hill neighborhood of San Francisco, California. Lam then shot and killed himself as police arrived at the facility. Two others were wounded by gunfire, and three people were injured while escaping.\n\nPostal worker DeShaune Stewart murdered two colleagues, his supervisor and the postmaster, on December 23, 2017.\n\nResearchers have found that the homicide rates at postal facilities were lower than at other workplaces. In major industries, the highest rate of 2.1 homicides per 100,000 workers per year was in retail. The homicide rate for postal workers was 0.22 per 100,000 versus 0.77 per 100,000 workers in general. The common depiction of an employee returning to work for revenge on his boss is overdone. More than half of mass workplace shooting are by current employees, and a little under a quarter are by employees who have been at their job for less than a year.\n\nIn 1998, the United States Congress conducted a joint hearing to review the violence in the U.S. Postal Service. In the hearing, it was noted that despite the postal service accounting for less than 1% of the full-time civilian labor force, 13% of workplace homicides were committed at postal facilities by current or former employees.\n\nIn the controversial video game series \"Postal\", the player takes on the role of an insane mass murderer in the first game, and in the later series a first-person role performing normally mundane chores (such as picking up a paycheck from work) with an often gratuitously violent twist. In 1997, the USPS sued the creators of the game, Running With Scissors, over the use of the term \"postal\". Running With Scissors argued that, despite its title, the game has absolutely nothing to do with the USPS or its employees. The case was dismissed with prejudice in 2003.\n\nThe 1994 comedy film \"\" includes a scene where the main character must deal with a series of escalating threats, including the sudden appearance of dozens of disgruntled postal workers randomly firing weapons in every direction.\n\nThe 1995 film \"Clueless\" is credited with popularizing the phrase \"going postal\" and is responsible for the term's casual usage still today. The actors in the film had no idea what it meant to \"go postal,\" since it was an uncommon phrase at the time.\n\nThe title of the 2004 book \"Going Postal\" by Terry Pratchett makes reference to the contents of the novel, but in future novels of the Discworld universe characters use the term \"going postal\" in the common sense, apparently referring to the events of \"Going Postal\".\n\nAs referenced on the Simpsons, during Episode \"Sunday Cruddy Sunday\", Bart and Lisa visit the post office and Nelson asks:\n\nIn the \"Brooklyn Nine-Nine\" episode \"USPIS\", a self-righteous United States Postal Inspection Service agent passionate about his job is adamant that \"going postal\" is the term most associated with bringing goodness into people's lives, which is a view also shared by his co-workers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3512498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3512498", "title": "Greek love", "text": "Greek love\n\nGreek love is a term originally used by classicists to describe the primarily homoerotic customs, practices, and attitudes of the ancient Greeks. It was frequently used as a euphemism for homosexuality and pederasty. The phrase is a product of the enormous impact of the reception of classical Greek culture on historical attitudes toward sexuality, and its influence on art and various intellectual movements.\n\n'Greece' as the historical memory of a treasured past was romanticised and idealised as a time and a culture when love between males was not only tolerated but actually encouraged, and expressed as the high ideal of same-sex camaraderie. ... If tolerance and approval of male homosexuality had happened once—and in a culture so much admired and imitated by the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries—might it not be possible to replicate in modernity the antique homeland of the non-heteronormative?\nFollowing the work of sexuality theorist Michel Foucault, the validity of an ancient Greek model for modern gay culture has been questioned. In his essay \"Greek Love\", Alastair Blanshard sees \"Greek love\" as \"one of the defining and divisive issues in the homosexual rights movement.\n\nAs a phrase in Modern English and other modern European languages, \"Greek love\" refers to various (mostly homoerotic) practices as part of the Hellenic heritage reinterpreted by adherents such as Lytton Strachey; quotation marks are often placed on either or both words (\"Greek\" love, Greek \"love\", or \"Greek love\") to indicate that usage of the phrase is determined by context. It often serves as a \"coded phrase\" for pederasty, or to \"sanitize\" homosexual desire in historical contexts where it was considered unacceptable.\n\nThe German term \"griechische Liebe\" (\"Greek love\") appears in German literature between 1750 and 1850, along with \"socratische Liebe\" (\"Socratic love\") and \"platonische Liebe\" (\"Platonic love\") in reference to male-male attractions. Ancient Greece became a positive reference point by which homosexual men of a certain class and education could engage in discourse that might otherwise be taboo. In the early Modern period, a disjuncture was carefully maintained between idealized male eros in the classical tradition, which was treated with reverence, and sodomy, which was a term of contempt.\n\nIn his classic study \"Greek Homosexuality\", Kenneth Dover points out that the English nouns \"a homosexual\" and \"a heterosexual\" have no equivalent in the ancient Greek language. There was no concept in ancient Greece equivalent to the modern conception of \"sexual preference\"; it was assumed that a person would have both hetero- and homosexual responses at different times. Evidence for same-sex attractions and behaviors is more abundant for men than for women. Both romantic love and sexual passion between men were often considered normal, and under some circumstances healthy or admirable. The most common male-male relationship was \"paiderasteia\", a socially-acknowledged institution in which a mature male (\"erastēs\", the active lover) bonded with or mentored a teen-aged youth (\"eromenos\", the passive lover, or \"pais\", \"boy\" understood as an endearment and not necessarily a category of age ). Martin Litchfield West views Greek pederasty as \"a substitute for heterosexual love, free contacts between the sexes being restricted by society\".\n\nGreek art and literature portray these relationships as sometimes erotic or sexual, or sometimes idealized, educational, non-consummated, or non-sexual. A distinctive feature of Greek male-male eros was its occurrence within a military setting, as with the Theban Band, though the extent to which homosexual bonds played a military role has been questioned.\n\nSome Greek myths have been interpreted as reflecting the custom of \"paiderasteia\", most notably the myth of Zeus kidnapping Ganymede to become his cupbearer in the Olympian symposium. The death of Hyacinthus is also frequently referenced as a pederastic myth.\n\nThe main Greek literary sources for Greek homosexuality are lyric poetry, Athenian comedy, the works of Plato and Xenophon, and courtroom speeches from Athens. Vase paintings from the 500s and 400s BCE depict courtship and sex between males.\n\nIn Latin, \"mos Graeciae\" or \"mos Graecorum\" (\"Greek custom\" or \"the way of the Greeks\") refers to a variety of behaviors the ancient Romans regarded as Greek, including but not confined to sexual practice. Homosexual behaviors at Rome were acceptable only within an inherently unequal relationship; male Roman citizens retained their masculinity as long as they took the active, penetrating role, and the appropriate male sexual partner was a prostitute or slave, who would nearly always be non-Roman. In Archaic and classical Greece, \"paiderasteia\" had been a formal social relationship between freeborn males; taken out of context and refashioned as the luxury product of a conquered people, pederasty came to express roles based on domination and exploitation. Slaves often were given, and prostitutes sometimes assumed, Greek names regardless of their ethnic origin; the boys \"(pueri)\" to whom the poet Martial is attracted have Greek names. The use of slaves defined Roman pederasty; sexual practices were \"somehow 'Greek when they were directed at \"freeborn boys openly courted in accordance with the Hellenic tradition of pederasty\".\n\nEffeminacy or a lack of discipline in managing one's sexual attraction to another male threatened a man's \"Roman-ness\" and thus might be disparaged as \"Eastern\" or \"Greek\". Fears that Greek models might \"corrupt\" traditional Roman social codes (the \"mos maiorum\") seem to have prompted a vaguely documented law (\"Lex Scantinia\") that attempted to regulate aspects of homosexual relationships between freeborn males and to protect Roman youth from older men emulating Greek customs of pederasty. \n\nBy the close of the 2nd century BCE, however, the elevation of Greek literature and art as models of expression caused homoeroticism to be regarded as urbane and sophisticated. The consul Quintus Lutatius Catulus was among a circle of poets who made short, light Hellenistic poems fashionable in the late Republic. One of his few surviving fragments is a poem of desire addressed to a male with a Greek name, signaling the new aesthetic in Roman culture. The Hellenization of elite culture influenced sexual attitudes among \"avant-garde, philhellenic Romans\", as distinguished from sexual orientation or behavior, and came to fruition in the \"new poetry\" of the 50s BCE. The poems of Gaius Valerius Catullus, written in forms adapted from Greek meters, include several expressing desire for a freeborn youth explicitly named \"Youth\" (\"Iuventius\"). His Latin name and free-born status subvert pederastic tradition at Rome. Catullus's poems are more often addressed to a woman.\n\nThe literary ideal celebrated by Catullus stands in contrast to the practice of elite Romans who kept a \"puer delicatus\" (\"exquisite boy\") as a form of high-status sexual consumption, a practice that continued well into the Imperial era. The \"puer delicatus\" was a slave chosen from the pages who served in a high-ranking household. He was selected for his good looks and grace to serve at his master's side, where he is often depicted in art. Among his duties, at a \"convivium\" he would enact the Greek mythological role of Ganymede, the Trojan youth abducted by Zeus to serve as a divine cupbearer. Attacks on emperors such as Nero and Elagabalus, whose young male partners accompanied them in public for official ceremonies, criticized the perceived \"Greekness\" of male-male sexuality. \"Greek love\", or the cultural model of Greek pederasty in ancient Rome, is a \"topos or literary game\" that \"never stops being Greek in the Roman imagination\", an erotic pose to be distinguished from the varieties of real-world sexuality among individuals. Vout sees the views of Williams and MacMullen as opposite extremes on the subject\n\nMale same-sex relationships of the kind portrayed by the \"Greek love\" ideal were increasingly disallowed within the Judaeo-Christian traditions of western society. In the postclassical period, love poetry addressed by males to other males has been in general taboo. According to Reeser's book Setting Plato Straight, it was the Renaissance that shifted the idea of love in Plato's sense to what we now refer to as \"Platonic love\"—as asexual and heterosexual.\n\nIn 1469, the Italian Neoplatonist Marsilio Ficino reintroduced Plato's \"Symposium\" to western culture with his Latin translation titled \"De Amore\" (\"On Love\"). Ficino is \"perhaps the most important Platonic commentator and teacher in the Renaissance\". The \"Symposium\" became the most important text for conceptions of love in general during the Renaissance. In his commentary on Plato, Ficino interprets \"amor platonicus\" (\"Platonic love\") and \"amor socraticus\" (\"Socratic love\") allegorically as idealized male love, in keeping with the Church doctrine of his time. Ficino's interpretation of the \"Symposium\" influenced a philosophical view that the pursuit of knowledge, particularly self-knowledge, required the sublimation of sexual desire. Ficino thus began the long historical process of suppressing the homoeroticism of in particular, the dialogue \"Charmides\" \"threatens to expose the carnal nature of Greek love\" which Ficino sought to minimize.\n\nFor Ficino, \"Platonic love\" was a bond between two men that fosters a shared emotional and intellectual life, as distinguished from the \"Greek love\" practiced historically as the \"erastes/eromenos\" relationship. Ficino thus points toward the modern usage of \"Platonic love\" to mean love without sexuality. In his commentary to the \"Symposium\", Ficino carefully separates the act of sodomy, which he condemned, and praises Socratic love as the highest form of friendship. Ficino maintained that men could use each other's beauty and friendship to discover the greatest good, that is, God, and thus Christianized idealized male love as expressed by Socrates.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, artists such as Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo used Plato's philosophy as inspiration for some of their greatest works. The \"rediscovery\" of classical antiquity was perceived as a liberating experience, and Greek love as an ideal after a Platonic model. Michelangelo presented himself to the public as a Platonic lover of men, combining Catholic orthodoxy and pagan enthusiasm in his portrayal of the male form, most notably the \"David\", but his great-nephew edited his poems to diminish references to his love for Tommaso Cavalieri.\n\nBy contrast, the French Renaissance essayist Montaigne, whose view of love and friendship was humanist and rationalist, rejected \"Greek love\" as a model in his essay \"De l'amitié\" (\"On Friendship\"); it did not accord with the social needs of his own time, he wrote, because it involved \"a necessary disparity in age and such a difference in the lovers' functions\". Because Montaigne saw friendship as a relationship between equals in the context of political liberty, this inequality diminished the value of Greek love. The physical beauty and sexual attraction inherent in the Greek model for Montaigne were not necessary conditions of friendship, and he dismisses homosexual relations, which he refers to as \"licence grecque\", as socially repulsive. Although the wholesale importation of a Greek model would be socially improper, \"licence grecque\" seems to refer only to licentious homosexual conduct, in contrast to the moderate behavior between men in the perfect friendship. When Montaigne chooses to introduce his essay on friendship with recourse to the Greek model, \"homosexuality's role as trope is more important than its status as actual male-male desire or act ... \"licence grecque\" becomes an aesthetic device to frame the center.\"\nThe German term \"griechische Liebe\" (\"Greek love\") appears in German literature between 1750 and 1850, along with \"socratische Liebe\" (\"Socratic love\") and \"platonische Liebe\" (\"Platonic love\") in reference to male-male attractions. The work of the German art historian Johann Winckelmann was a major influence on the formation of classical ideals in the 18th century, and is also a frequent starting point for histories of gay German literature. Winckelmann observed the inherent homoeroticism of Greek art, though he felt he had to leave much of this perception implicit: \"I should have been able to say more if I had written for the Greeks, and not in a modern tongue, which imposed on me certain restrictions.\" His own homosexuality influenced his response to Greek art and often tended toward the rhapsodic: \"from admiration I pass to ecstasy ...,\" he wrote of the Apollo Belvedere, \"I am transported to Delos and the sacred groves of Lycia—places Apollo honoured with his presence—and the statue seems to come alive like the beautiful creation of Pygmalion.\" Although now regarded as \"ahistorical and utopian\", his approach to art history provided a \"body\" and \"set of tropes\" for Greek love, \"a semantics surrounding Greek love that ... feeds into the related eighteenth-century discourses on friendship and love\".\n\nWinckelmann inspired German poets in the latter 18th and throughout the 19th century, including Goethe, who pointed to Winckelmann's glorification of the nude male youth in ancient Greek sculpture as central to a new aesthetics of the time, and for whom Winckelmann himself was a model of Greek love as a superior form of friendship. While Winckelmann did not invent the euphemism \"Greek love\" for homosexuality, he has been characterized as an \"intellectual midwife\" for the Greek model as an aesthetic and philosophical ideal that shaped the 18th-century homosocial \"cult of friendship\".\nGerman 18th-century works from the \"Greek love\" milieu of classical studies include the academic essays of Christoph Meiners and Alexander von Humboldt, the parodic poem \"Juno and Ganymede\" by Christoph Martin Wieland, and \"\" (1805), a novel about an explicitly male-male love affair in a Greek setting by Augustus, Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg.\n\nNeoclassical works of art often represented ancient society and an idealized form of \"Greek love\". Jacques-Louis David's \"Death of Socrates\" is meant to be a \"Greek\" painting, imbued with an appreciation of \"Greek love\", a tribute and documentation of leisured, disinterested, masculine fellowship.\nThe concept of Greek love was important to two of the most significant poets of English Romanticism, Byron and Shelley. The Regency in England was an era characterized by hostility and a \"frenzy of ... persecutions\" against homosexuals, the most virulent decades of which coincided with Byron's lifetime. The terms \"homosexual\" and \"gay\" were not used during this period, but \"Greek love\" among Byron's contemporaries became a way to conceptualize homosexuality, otherwise taboo, within the precedents of a highly esteemed classical past. The philosopher Jeremy Bentham, for instance, appealed to social models of classical antiquity, such as the homoerotic bonds of the Theban Band and pederasty, to demonstrate how these relationships did not inherently erode heterosexual marriage or the family structure.\n\nThe high regard for classical antiquity in the 18th century caused some adjustment in homophobic attitudes on the Continent, but not in England. In Germany, the prestige of classical philology led eventually to more honest translations and essays that examined the homoeroticism of Greek culture, particularly pederasty, in the context of scholarly inquiry rather than moral condemnation. Religious and nationalist sentiments in England overall remained hostile. An English archbishop, however, penned what may be the most effusive account of Greek pederasty available in English at the time, duly noted by Byron on the \"List of Historical Writers Whose Works I Have Perused\" that he drew up at age 19.\n\nPlato was little read in Byron's time, in contrast to the later Victorian era when translations of the \"Symposium\" and \"Phaedrus\" would have been the most likely way for a young student to learn about Greek sexuality. The one English translation of the \"Symposium\", published in two parts in 1761 and 1767, was an ambitious undertaking by the scholar Floyer Sydenham, who nevertheless was at pains to suppress its homoeroticism: Sydenham regularly translated the word \"eromenos\" as \"mistress\", and \"boy\" often becomes \"maiden\" or \"woman\". At the same time, the classical curriculum in English schools passed over works of history and philosophy in favor of Latin and Greek poetry that often dealt with erotic themes.\nIn describing homoerotic aspects of Byron's life and work, Louis Crompton uses the umbrella term \"Greek love\" to cover literary and cultural models of homosexuality from classical antiquity as a whole, both Greek and Roman, as received by intellectuals, artists, and moralists of the time. To those such as Byron who were steeped in classical literature, the phrase \"Greek love\" evoked pederastic myths such as Ganymede and Hyacinthus, as well as historical figures such as the political martyrs Harmodius and Aristogeiton, and Hadrian's beloved Antinous; Byron refers to all these stories in his writings. He was even more familiar with the classical tradition of male love in Latin literature, and quoted or translated homoerotic passages from Catullus, Horace, Virgil, and Petronius, whose name \"was a byword for homosexuality in the eighteenth century\". In Byron's circle at Cambridge, \"Horatian\" was a code word for \"bisexual\". In correspondence, Byron and his friends resorted to the code of classical allusions, in one exchange referring with elaborate puns to \"Hyacinths\" who might be struck by coits, as the mythological Hyacinthus was accidentally felled while throwing the discus with Apollo.\nShelley complained that contemporary reticence about homosexuality kept modern readers without a knowledge of the original languages from understanding a vital part of ancient Greek life. His poetry was influenced by the \"androgynous male beauty\" represented in Winckelmann's art history. Shelley wrote his \"Discourse on the Manners of the Antient Greeks Relative to the Subject of Love\" on the Greek conception of love in 1818 during his first summer in Italy, concurrently with his translation of Plato's \"Symposium\". Shelley was the first major English writer to treat Platonic homosexuality, although neither work was published during his lifetime. His translation of the \"Symposium\" did not appear in complete form until 1910. Shelley asserts that Greek love arose from the circumstances of Greek households, in which women were not educated and not treated as equals, and thus not suitable objects of ideal love. Although Shelley recognizes the homosexual nature of the love relationships between males in ancient Greece, he argues that homosexual lovers often engaged in no behaviour of a sexual nature, and that Greek love was based on the intellectual component, in which one seeks a complementary beloved. He maintains that the immorality of the homosexual acts are on par with the immorality of contemporary prostitution, and contrasts the pure version of Greek love with the later licentiousness found in Roman culture. Shelley cites Shakespeare's sonnets as an English expression of the same sentiments, and ultimately argues that they are chaste and platonic in nature.\n\nThroughout the 19th century, upper-class men of same-sex orientation or sympathies regarded \"Greek love\", often used as a euphemism for the ancient pederastic relationship between a man and a youth, as a \"legitimating ideal\": \"the prestige of Greece among educated middle-class Victorians ... was so massive that invocations of Hellenism could cast a veil of respectability over even a hitherto unmentionable vice or crime.\" Homosexuality emerged as a category of thought during the Victorian era in relation to classical studies and \"manly\" nationalism; the discourse of \"Greek love\" during this time generally excluded women's sexuality. Late Victorian writers such as Walter Pater, Oscar Wilde, and John Addington Symonds saw in \"Greek love\" a way to introduce individuality and diversity within their own civilization. Pater's short story \"Apollo in Picardy\" is set at a fictional monastery where a pagan stranger named Apollyon causes the death of the young novice Hyacinth; the monastery \"maps Greek love\" as the site of a potential \"homoerotic community\" within Anglo-Catholicism. Others who addressed the subject of Greek love in letters, essays, and poetry include Arthur Henry Hallam.\n\nThe efforts among aesthetes and intellectuals to legitimate various forms of homosexual behaviors and attitudes by virtue of a Hellenic model were not without opposition. The 1877 essay \"The Greek Spirit in Modern Literature\" by Richard St. John Tyrwhitt warned against the perceived immorality of this agenda. Tyrwhitt, who was a vigorous supporter of studying Greek, characterized the Hellenism of his day as \"the total denial of any moral restraint on any human impulses\", and outlined what he saw as the proper scope of Greek influence on the education of young men. Tyrwhitt and other critics attacked by name several scholars and writers who had tried to use Plato to support an early gay-rights agenda and whose careers were subsequently damaged by their association with \"Greek love\". \n\nIn 1873, the poet and literary critic John Addington Symonds wrote \"A Problem in Greek Ethics\", a work of what could later be called \"gay history\", inspired by the poetry of Walt Whitman. The work, \"perhaps the most exhaustive eulogy of Greek love\", remained unpublished for a decade, and then was printed at first only in a limited edition for private distribution. Symonds's approach throughout most of the essay is primarily philological. He treats \"Greek love\" as central to Greek \"aesthetic morality\". Aware of the taboo nature of his subject matter, Symonds referred obliquely to pederasty as \"that unmentionable custom\" in a letter to a prospective reader of the book, but defined \"Greek love\" in the essay itself as \"a passionate and enthusiastic attachment subsisting between man and youth, recognised by society and protected by opinion, which, though it was not free from sensuality, did not degenerate into mere licentiousness\".\n\nSymonds studied classics under Benjamin Jowett at Balliol College, Oxford, and later worked with Jowett on an English translation of Plato's \"Symposium\". When Jowett was critical of Symonds' opinions on sexuality, Dowling notes that Jowett, in his lectures and introductions, discussed love between men and women when Plato himself had been talking about the Greek love for boys. Symonds asserted that \"Greek love was for Plato no 'figure of speech', but a present and poignant reality. Greek love is for modern studies of Plato no 'figure of speech' and no anachronism, but a present poignant reality.\" Symonds struggled against the desexualization of \"Platonic love\", and sought to debunk the association of effeminacy with homosexuality by advocating a Spartan-inspired view of male love as contributing to military and political bonds. When Symonds was falsely accused of corrupting choirboys, Jowett supported him, despite his own equivocal views of the relation of Hellenism to contemporary legal and social issues that affected homosexuals.\nSymonds also translated classical poetry on homoerotic themes, and wrote poems drawing on ancient Greek imagery and language such as \"Eudiades\", which has been called \"the most famous of his homoerotic poems\": \"The metaphors are Greek, the tone Arcadian and the emotions a bit sentimental for present-day readers.\"\n\nOne of the ways in which Symonds and Whitman expressed themselves in their correspondence on the subject of homosexuality was through references to ancient Greek culture, such as the intimate friendship between Callicrates, \"the most beautiful man among the Spartans\", and the soldier Aristodemus. Symonds was influenced by Karl Otfried Müller's work on the Dorians, which included an \"unembarrassed\" examination of the place of pederasty in Spartan pedagogy, military life, and society. Symonds distinguished between \"heroic love\", for which the ideal friendship of Achilles and Patroclus served as a model, and \"Greek love\", which combined social ideals with \"vulgar\" reality. Symonds envisioned a \"nationalist homosexuality\" based on the model of Greek love, distanced from effeminacy and \"debasing\" behaviors and viewed as \"in its origin and essence, military\". He tried to reconcile his presentation of Greek love with Christian and chivalrous values. His strategy for influencing social acceptance of homosexuality and legal reform in England included evoking an idealized Greek model that reflected Victorian moral values such as honor, devotion, and self-sacrifice. \n\nDuring his relationship with Lord Alfred “Bosie” Douglas, Wilde frequently invoked the historical precedent of Greek models of love and masculinity, calling Douglas the contemporary \"Hyacinthus, whom Apollo loved so madly,\" in a letter to him in July 1893. The trial of Oscar Wilde marked the end of the period when proponents of \"Greek love\" could hope to legitimate homosexuality by appeals to a classical model. During the cross examination, Wilde defended his statement that \"pleasure is the only thing one should live for,\" by acknowledging: \"I am, on that point, entirely on the side of the ancients—the Greeks. It is a pagan idea.\" With the rise of sexology, however, that kind of defense failed to hold.\n\nThe legacy of Greece in homosexual aesthetics became problematic, and the meaning of a \"costume\" derived from classical antiquity was questioned. The French theorist Michel Foucault (1926–1984), perhaps best known for his work \"The History of Sexuality\", rejected essentialist conceptions of gay history, and fostered a now \"widely accepted\" view that \"Greek love is not a prefiguration of modern homosexuality.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14700264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14700264", "title": "Jack Angus (footballer, born 1868)", "text": "Jack Angus (footballer, born 1868)\n\nJohn William Angus (1 December 1868 –1933) was a Scottish professional footballer who played as a forward in Southampton's inaugural season in the Southern League.\n\nBorn in Blythswood Hill, Glasgow, he started his career at Third Lanark, before joining English side Ardwick (later Manchester City) in March 1892. The 1892–93 season was Ardwick's first in the Football League, and Angus scored in the club's first ever League match, a 7–0 win against Bootle. Overall, he scored three league goals from seven appearances for the Manchester club. Angus then moved to the south coast to join Southampton St Mary's in the summer of 1893.\n\nAngus was one of the first professional players signed by Southampton. He played in the Saints' two FA Cup qualifying matches in November 1893 as well as friendlies and local cup matches. Described by Holley & Chalk as \"a deft and aggressive forward\", he was the first Saints player to be sent off for an \"over zealous\" tackle in a Hampshire Senior Cup match on 24 February 1894 against local rivals Freemantle.\n\nIn 1894 Southampton were founder members of the Southern League and Angus played at inside forward, in a forward line-up including Charles Baker, Fred Hollands, Harry Offer and Herbert Ward. He scored in the \"Saints\"' first game in the Southern League and went on to score six goals that season, making him joint top scorer.\n\nThe following season, he made three more league appearances before leaving the club in November 1895. In all he made 23 appearances for the Saints, scoring 11 goals. He subsequently played for Fulham, but little is known about his later life.\n"}
{"id": "573279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=573279", "title": "Karen Silkwood", "text": "Karen Silkwood\n\nKaren Gay Silkwood (February 19, 1946 – November 13, 1974) was an American chemical technician and labor union activist known for raising concerns about corporate practices related to health and safety of workers in a nuclear facility. Following her mysterious death, which received extensive coverage, her estate filed a lawsuit against chemical company Kerr-McGee, which was eventually settled for $1.38 million. Her story was chronicled in Mike Nichols's 1983 Academy Award-nominated film \"Silkwood\" in which she was portrayed by Meryl Streep.\n\nShe worked at the Kerr-McGee Cimarron Fuel Fabrication Site plant near Crescent, Oklahoma, United States. Silkwood's job was making plutonium pellets for nuclear reactor fuel rods. This plant experienced theft of plutonium by workers during this era. She joined the union and became an activist on behalf of issues of health and safety at the plant as a member of the union's negotiating team, the first woman to have that position at Kerr-McGee. In the summer of 1974, she testified to the Atomic Energy Commission about her concerns.\n\nFor three days in November, she was found to have plutonium contamination on her person and in her home. That month, while driving to meet with David Burnham, a \"New York Times\" journalist, and Steve Wodka, an official of her union's national office, she died in a car crash under unclear circumstances.\n\nHer family sued Kerr-McGee on behalf of her estate. In what was the longest trial up until then in Oklahoma history, the jury found Kerr-McGee liable for the plutonium contamination of Silkwood, and awarded substantial damages. These were reduced on appeal, but the case reached the United States Supreme Court in 1979, which upheld the damages verdict. Before another trial took place, Kerr-McGee settled with the estate out of court for US $1.38 million, while not admitting liability.\n\nKaren Gay Silkwood was born in Longview, Texas, the daughter of Merle (née Biggs 1926–2014) and William Silkwood, and raised in Nederland, Texas. She had two sisters, Linda and Rosemary. She attended Lamar University in Beaumont, Texas. In 1965, she married William Meadows, an oil pipeline worker, with whom she had three children. Following the couple's bankruptcy due to Meadows' overspending, and in the face of Meadows' refusal to end an extramarital affair, Silkwood left Meadows in 1972 and moved to Oklahoma City, where she briefly worked as a hospital clerk.\n\nAfter being hired at Kerr-McGee in 1972, Silkwood joined the local Oil, Chemical & Atomic Workers Union and took part in a strike at the plant. After the strike ended, she was elected to the union's bargaining committee, the first woman to achieve that position at the Kerr-McGee plant. She was assigned to investigate health and safety issues. She discovered what she believed to be numerous violations of health regulations, including exposure of workers to contamination, faulty respiratory equipment and improper storage of samples. She believed the lack of sufficient shower facilities could increase the risk of employee contamination.\n\nThe Oil, Chemical, and Atomic Workers Union said that \"the Kerr-McGee plant had manufactured faulty fuel rods, falsified product inspection records, and risked employee safety;\" it threatened litigation. In the summer of 1974, Silkwood testified to the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) about having been contaminated, alleging that safety standards had slipped because of a production speedup. She was appearing with other union members.\n\nOn November 5, 1974, Silkwood performed a routine self-check and found that her body contained almost 400 times the legal limit for plutonium contamination. She was decontaminated at the plant and sent home with a testing kit to collect urine and feces for further analysis. Although there was plutonium on the inner portions of the gloves which she had been using, the gloves did not have any holes. This suggests the contamination had come not from inside the glovebox, but from some other source.\n\nThe next morning, as she headed to a union negotiation meeting, Silkwood again tested positive for plutonium, although she had performed only paperwork duties that morning. She was given a more intensive decontamination. On November 7, as she entered the plant, she was found to be dangerously contaminated, even expelling contaminated air from her lungs. A health physics team accompanied her back to her home and found plutonium traces on several surfaces, especially in the bathroom and the refrigerator. When the house was later stripped and decontaminated, some of her property had to be destroyed. Silkwood, her boyfriend Drew Stephens, and her roommate Dusty Ellis, were sent to Los Alamos National Laboratory for in-depth testing to determine the extent of the contamination in their bodies.\n\nQuestions arose over how Silkwood became contaminated over this three-day period. She said the contamination in the bathroom may have occurred when she spilled her urine sample on the morning of November 7. This was consistent with the evidence that samples she took at home had extremely high levels of contamination, while samples taken in \"fresh\" jars at the plant and at Los Alamos showed much lower contamination.\n\nShe thought she had been contaminated at the plant. Kerr-McGee's management said that Silkwood had contaminated herself in order to portray the company in a negative light. According to Richard L. Rashke's book, \"The Killing of Karen Silkwood\" (1981/2000), security at the plant was so lax that workers could easily smuggle out finished plutonium pellets. Rashke wrote that the soluble type of plutonium found in Silkwood's body came from a production area which she had not accessed for four months. The pellets had since been stored in the vault of the facility.\n\nSilkwood said she had assembled documentation for her claims, including company papers. She decided to go public with this evidence, and contacted David Burnham, a \"New York Times\" journalist, who was interested in her story. On November 13, 1974, Silkwood left a union meeting at the Hub cafe in Crescent. Another attendee of that meeting later testified that Silkwood had a binder and a packet of documents with her at the cafe. Silkwood got into her car and headed alone for Oklahoma City, about away, to meet with Burnham, the \"New York Times\" reporter, and Steve Wodka, an official of her union's national office. Later that evening, Silkwood's body was found in her car, which had run off the road and struck a culvert on the east side of State Highway 74, 0.11 miles (180 m) south of the intersection with West Industrial Road (35.855233° N, 97.584963° W). The car contained none of the documents she held in the union meeting at the Hub cafe. She was pronounced dead at the scene in what was believed to be an accident. The trooper at the scene remembers that he found one or two tablets of the sedative methaqualone (Quaalude) in the car, and he remembers finding marijuana. The police report indicated that she fell asleep at the wheel. The coroner found 0.35 milligrams of methaqualone per 100 milliliters of blood at the time of her death — an amount almost twice the recommended dosage for inducing drowsiness.\n\nSome journalists have theorized that Silkwood's car was rammed from behind by another vehicle, with the intent to cause an accident that would result in her death. Skid marks from Silkwood's car were present on the road, suggesting that she was trying to get back onto the road after being pushed from behind.\n\nInvestigators also noted damage on the rear of Silkwood's vehicle that, according to Silkwood's friends and family, had not been present before the accident. As the crash was entirely a front-end collision, it did not explain the damage to the rear of her vehicle. A microscopic examination of the rear of Silkwood's car showed paint chips that could have come only from a rear impact by another vehicle. Silkwood's family claimed to know of no accidents of any kind that Silkwood had had with the car, and that the 1974 Honda Civic she was driving was new when purchased and no insurance claims were filed on that vehicle.\n\nSilkwood's relatives, too, confirmed that she had taken the missing documents to the union meeting and placed them on the seat beside her. According to her family, she had received several threatening phone calls very shortly before her death. Speculation about foul play has never been substantiated.\n\nAccording to the book \"Who Killed Karen Silkwood\", the assassination scene in the movie \"The China Syndrome\", in which the character Hector's car is run off the road, is based on a theorized version of Silkwood's death. In the film, the power plant's agents come up behind Hector's vehicle and ram him, repeatedly, from behind until a device on their front bumper engages his rear bumper and lets them lift the rear end of his vehicle off the road, thereby pushing his car over a cliff. Subsequently, police officers remove the evidence from his vehicle and hand it to the villains because their company's name is on the documents. This could be construed as an attempt by the film's producers to influence the jury in the Silkwood case. According to the book, it was for this reason that the jury was forbidden from seeing that then-new movie while they were hearing the case and deliberating.\n\nBecause of concerns about contamination, the Atomic Energy Commission and the State Medical Examiner requested analysis of Silkwood's organs by the Los Alamos Tissue Analysis Program. Much of the radiation was in her lungs, suggesting that plutonium had been inhaled. When her tissues were further examined, the highest deposits were found in the contents of her gastrointestinal tract, demonstrating that she had ingested plutonium.\n\nPublic suspicions led to a federal investigation into plant security and safety. National Public Radio reported that this investigation had found that of plutonium had been misplaced at the plant.\n\nKerr-McGee closed its nuclear-fuel plants in 1975. The Department of Energy (DOE) reported the Cimarron plant as decontaminated and decommissioned in 1994.\n\nPBS Frontline produced the program, \"Nuclear Reaction,\" which included aspects of the Silkwood story. Its website for the program includes \"The Karen Silkwood Story\", as printed in 1995 in \"Los Alamos Science\". The PBS program covered the risks of nuclear energy and raised questions about corporate accountability and responsibility.\n\nSilkwood's father Bill and her children filed a lawsuit against Kerr-McGee for negligence on behalf of her estate. The trial was held in 1979 and lasted ten months, the longest up to that point in Oklahoma history. Gerry Spence was the chief attorney for the estate; other key attorneys were Daniel Sheehan, Arthur Angel, and James Ikard; William Paul was the chief attorney for Kerr-McGee. The estate presented evidence that the autopsy proved Silkwood was contaminated with plutonium at her death. To prove that the contamination was sustained at the plant, evidence was given by a series of witnesses who were former employees of the facility.\n\nThe defense relied on the expert witness Dr. George Voelz, a top-level scientist at Los Alamos. Voelz said that he believed the contamination in Silkwood's body was within legal standards. The defense later proposed that Silkwood was a troublemaker, who might have poisoned herself. Following the summation arguments, Judge Frank Theis told the jury, \"[I]f you find that the damage to the person or property of Karen Silkwood resulted from the operation of this plant ... defendant Kerr-McGee Nuclear Corporation is liable...\"\n\nThe jury rendered its verdict of US $505,000 in damages and US $10,000,000 in punitive damages. On appeal in federal court, the judgment was reduced to US $5,000, the estimated value of Silkwood's losses in property at her rental house, and reversing the award of punitive damages. In 1984, the U.S. Supreme Court restored the original verdict, in \"Silkwood v. Kerr-McGee Corp.\" 464 US 238 (1984), ruling that \"the NRC's exclusive authority to set safety standards did not foreclose the use of state tort remedies.\" Although suggesting it would appeal on other grounds, Kerr-McGee settled out of court for US $1.38 million, admitting no liability.\n\nAccording to Richard L. Rashke's book, \"The Killing of Karen Silkwood\" (2000), officials investigating Silkwood's death and Kerr-McGee's operations received death threats. One of the investigators disappeared under mysterious circumstances. One of the witnesses \"committed suicide\" shortly before she was to testify against the Kerr-McGee Corporation about the alleged happenings at the plant. Rashke wrote that the Silkwood family's legal team were followed, threatened with violence, and physically assaulted. Rashke suggested that the 20 kg (44 lbs) of plutonium missing from the plant had been stolen by \"a secret underground plutonium-smuggling ring\", in which many government agencies, including the highest levels of government and international intelligence agencies CIA, MI5, Israeli Mossad, and a \"shadowy group of Iranians\" were involved. The book says that the United States government covered up many details about Silkwood's death, and allegedly carried out her assassination.\n\nThe 1977 song \"We Almost Lost Detroit\" by musician Gil Scott-Heron mentions Silkwood.\nThe 1984 song \"Opus In Cm7\" by Wendy O. Williams begins with a mention of Silkwood.\n\nThe 1983 film \"Silkwood\" is an account of Silkwood's life and the events resulting from her activism, based on an original screenplay written by Nora Ephron and Alice Arlen. Meryl Streep played the title role and was nominated for an Academy Award and a BAFTA. Cher played Karen's best friend, Dolly, and was nominated for a Best Supporting Actress Academy Award. Mike Nichols was nominated for Best Director. Ephron and Arlen were nominated for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18497151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18497151", "title": "Life as a Fatal Sexually Transmitted Disease", "text": "Life as a Fatal Sexually Transmitted Disease\n\nLife as a Fatal Sexually Transmitted Disease () is a 2000 Polish drama film directed by Krzysztof Zanussi. It was Poland's submission to the 73rd Academy Awards for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. The film won the Golden St. George at the 22nd Moscow International Film Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47537912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47537912", "title": "List of murdered American children", "text": "List of murdered American children\n\nThis is a list of murdered American children that details notable murders among thousands of cases of subjects who were or are believed to have been under the age of 18 upon their deaths. Cases listed are stated to be unsolved, solved or pending and, in some cases, where the victims' remains have never been found or identified.\n\n"}
{"id": "53808392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53808392", "title": "Looking for Mr. Goodbart", "text": "Looking for Mr. Goodbart\n\n\"Looking for Mr. Goodbart\" is the twentieth episode of the twenty-eighth season of the animated television series \"The Simpsons\", and the 616th episode of the series overall. It aired in the United States on Fox on April 30, 2017.\n\nIn the episode, Bart accompanies elderly women in exchange for gifts, and befriends one woman who he realizes is suicidal. Meanwhile, Homer becomes addicted to the augmented reality game \"Peekimon Get\" (a parody of \"Pokémon Go\").\n\nThe episode was watched by 2 million viewers, making it the second-most viewed show on Fox that night. For her performance as Bart, Nancy Cartwright was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance.\n\nThe episode begins in medias res, in which Bart Simpson appears to be mannerly. Bart breaks the fourth wall by asking the viewer whether he would like to know why Bart changed. Bart then flashes back to the start.\n\nAfter Bart misbehaves, Principal Skinner is thinking of a punishment for Bart when his mother Agnes Skinner walks in and asks him to take her to the bus stop. He gets on the bus with her to the candy store. After learning that he can be given gifts for accompanying elderly women, he spends time with many others. One, Phoebe, catches on to what he is doing, but settles to give him money if he can pick her up four days in a row from her nursing home. Meanwhile, Homer becomes addicted to the augmented reality game \"Peekimon Get\" (a parody of \"Pokémon Go\"). He causes accidents and embarrassment while playing, but Lisa believes that the game is helping him exercise, so she encourages him to play and accompanies him. When he discovers that he can buy in-game content with real money, Lisa begrudgingly agrees to it and Homer spends $600 of the family's savings. \n\nBart arrives at the nursing home and takes Phoebe out in the woods to admire the nature together. After four days, she gives him the promised money, but he refuses it. Having acknowledged that he changed, Phoebe gives him her camera, saying that she has \"bequeathed\" it to him. After learning the meaning of the word, Bart realizes that Phoebe had been mentioning plans to commit suicide. Bart turns to Homer and Lisa, who enlist other Peekimon Get players for help finding Phoebe in the woods. They find her alive and she thanks Bart for showing that she still has a lot to live for. \n\nBart finishes his narration, having learned that it is wrong to play with women's hearts and take advantage of the elderly. It is revealed that he has been talking with Grampa, who complains about how long the story has been. Marge discovers that Homer had spent their money, but once he assures her that the game will soon fade away, learns to be content with it. During the end credits, Homer and Lisa sing a parody of the original \"Pokémon\" anime theme tune.\n\nDennis Perkins of \"The A.V. Club\" gave the episode a B, stating \"'Looking For Mr. Goodbart’ isn’t boring. But it doesn’t quite land as hard as it appears it’s going to for a time. The script really does lay the foundation for it—Bart and Phoebe’s mutual admiration makes sense in context, and both actors find the emotional truth there. I like how Phoebe’s unimpressed reaction to Bart’s scam turns to genuine appreciation once she, among other things, sees Bart enjoying nature (in the form of a losing fight with a praying mantis). Walking off with Bart, she talks about them going ‘inside that Milhouse you love so much.’ (She thought it was a house, don’t be weird). Set straight, Saunders’ offhand ‘Oh well, there you go,’ once last time, hints at the rounded person who gave Bart’s little epiphany someone real to bounce off of.” \n\nTony Sokol of \"Den of Geek\" gave the episode 2/5 stars. He praised the premise and the performance of guest star Jennifer Saunders as Phoebe, but noted a lack of jokes and criticized an extended opening sequence as a way to fill time.\n\n\"Looking For Mr. Goodbart\" scored a 1.0 rating with a 4 share and was watched by 2.30 million viewers, making it Fox's second highest rated show of the night.\n\nFor her performance as Bart, Nancy Cartwright was nominated for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance at the 69th Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards, which was awarded to Seth MacFarlane for the \"Family Guy\" episode \"The Boys in the Band\".\n\nRussian cable channel 2x2 refused to air the episode due to a scene in which Homer plays \"Peekimon Get\" in church. The scene was similar to an ongoing incident in Russia, in which atheist blogger Ruslan Sokolovsky was on trial for blasphemy, having made a video of himself playing \"Pokémon Go\" at the Church of All Saints, Yekaterinburg and claiming that he could not find Jesus because Jesus did not exist. Amnesty International called this \"worrying self-censorship\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41278704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41278704", "title": "Mah-Adhur Gushnasp", "text": "Mah-Adhur Gushnasp\n\nMah-Adhur Gushnasp (), also known by the Arabicized form of Mahadharjushnas, was an Iranian nobleman who served as the \"wuzurg framadār\" (vizier or prime minister) of the Sasanian Empire during the reign of the child ruler Ardashir III (r. 628–629).\n\nMah-Adhur was the son of a certain Jushnas (Gushnasp), and an unnamed Ispahbudhan noblewoman, who was the sister of Vistahm and Vinduyih. Mah-Adhur Gushnasp had a brother named Narsi, and was a cousin of Khosrow II (r. 591–628), whose mother was also a sibling of the two Ispahbudhan brothers.\n\nHe is first mentioned during the accession of the eight-year old Ardashir III to the Sasanian throne in 6 September 628, where he was elected as \"wuzurg framadār\" of the young ruler. According to the medieval Persian historian al-Tabari, Mah-Adhur greatly administered the empire; \"Mahadharjushnas carried on the administration of the kingdom in [such] an excellent fashion, [and with such] firm conduct, [that] no one would have been aware of Ardashir III's youthfulness.\" However, this did not mean that the Sasanian Empire was peaceful and secure—in fact, \"local chiefs and army leaders had gained too much power to obey the central government; imperial administration was disintegrating, and the Arabs and the Turks were attacking Iranian border regions\" (A. Shahbazi).\n\nOne year later, the former Sasanian military leader Shahrbaraz, with a force of 6,000 men, marched towards Ctesiphon and besieged the city. He was, however, unable to capture the city, and therefor made an alliance with Piruz Khosrow, the leader of the Parsig faction, and the previous \"wuzurg framadār\" of the empire during the reign of Ardashir's father, Kavadh II (r. 628). He also made an alliance with Namdar Jushnas, the \"spahbed\" (\"army chief\") of Nemroz. Shahrbaraz, with the aid of these two powerful figures, captured Ctesiphon and executed Ardashir III, along with Mah-Adhur himself, and other prominent nobles of the empire including a certain Ardabīl. 40 days later, Shahrbaraz was murdered by Mah-Adhur's paternal cousin Farrukh Hormizd, who then made Boran, the daughter of Khosrow II, the new ruler of the empire.\n\nMah-Adhur's two sons, Kavadh and Anoshagan, later clashed with the Arabs twice in 633, first at the battle of Chains, then finally at battle of River (also known as battle of Al Madhar), where they were killed by the troops of the Arab general Khalid ibn al-Walid.\n\n"}
{"id": "29130833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29130833", "title": "Matilda Chaplin Ayrton", "text": "Matilda Chaplin Ayrton\n\nMatilda Charlotte Chaplin Ayrton ( – 19 July 1883) was an English physician. She studied medicine in London, Edinburgh and Paris, pursuing higher studies at the latter's universities, and is one of the Edinburgh Seven, the first seven matriculated undergraduate female students at a British university. She travelled to Japan, where she opened a school for midwives, and was an author of anthropological studies.\n\nMatilda Chaplin was born at Honfleur, France, the daughter of English parents John Clarke Chaplin, a solicitor from Watlington, Norfolk, and Matilda Adriana Ayrton from Chelsea, London. The family lived in Edgbaston, where several of her elder siblings were born, and returned to England shortly after her birth. She was baptised at St George's Church, Edgbaston in December 1846 before the family moved to Kensington. \n\nAfter beginning her studies in art she commenced the study of medicine in 1867, and continued to do so until her death. She spent two years at the Ladies' Medical College, and having passed the preliminary examination at Apothecaries' Hall in 1869, she presented herself for the later examination, but was refused admission on the ground of her gender.\n\nRecognised as one of the heroic 'seven against Edinburgh' women, also known as the Edinburgh Seven, she eventually matriculated at the University of Edinburgh, but was barred from instruction in higher branches of medicine. Legal intervention allowed her to gain high honours in anatomy and surgery at the extramural examinations held in 1870 and 1871 at Surgeons' Hall, Edinburgh, before a judgment in 1872 finally prohibited women students.\n\nIn 1871, when she found the chief medical classes in England and Scotland closed to her, she resolved to complete her education at Paris, where every facility was afforded her. The University of Paris recognised her abilities by bestowing upon her the degrees of Bachelier ès-Sciences and Bachelier ès-Lettres. During her studies Chaplin maintained connection with Edinburgh, attending some of the classes open to her there.\n\nIn 1872, she married her cousin, the noted scientist William Edward Ayrton, an Edinburgh student, and a distinguished pupil of Sir William Thomson. Early in the following year she obtained a certificate in midwifery from the London Obstetric Society, the only medical qualification then obtainable by women in England, and shortly afterwards accompanied her husband to Japan, where he had been appointed to a professorship in the Imperial College of Engineering in Tokyo.\n\nWhile in Japan, she pursued anthropological researches, and opened a school for Japanese midwives, in which she lectured herself, with the aid of an interpreter. In 1877 symptoms of tuberculosis made themselves apparent, forcing her return to Europe. In 1879, she took the degree of M.D. at Paris, and presented as her thesis the result of her Japanese studies, which was printed under the title of \"Recherches surles dimensions générales et sur le développement du corps chez les Japonais\" (Paris, 1879). She became a licentiate of the King and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland, and, although the only female candidate, came out first in the examination. In 1880 she lived in London, chiefly studying diseases of the eye at the Royal Free Hospital.\n\nBut her health was rapidly breaking down, and she was compelled for the next two years to winter abroad, but at the hospital of Algiers during one winter, and in the physiological laboratory at Montpellier during another, she continued her studies. Mrs. Ayrton died in London on 19 July 1883, aged 37.\n\nThe Dictionary of National Biography records: \"From the time of her journey to Japan Mrs. Ayrton contributed to \"The Scotsman\" and other periodicals a large number of articles on very various topics, including Japanese politics and customs, and the educational problems of the West.\"\n\nShe took a keen interest in the Japanese people and never wearied of studying them and their beautiful country. She became more and more interested in the home life of the Japanese and in the pictures and stories which delighted the children of the Mikado's Empire. After her return to England she wrote a book entitled \"Child Life in Japan\" which was illustrated from her own sketches.\n\nAyrton always took a lively interest in attempts to improve the educational opportunities and social position of women. She actively aided the establishment of a club for women students in Paris, and helped to organise the Somerville Club for women in London.\"\n\nChaplin and Ayrton's daughter was the feminist and author Edith Ayrton, wife of Israel Zangwill and mother of Oliver Zangwill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37064981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37064981", "title": "Michele Nicoletti", "text": "Michele Nicoletti\n\nMichele Nicoletti (born 19 November 1956, Trento) is an Italian politician and philosopher, and is currently serving as the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.\n\nHe was elected to the Italian Chamber of Deputies in the elections of 24–25 February 2013. He was a member of the Commission of the Twelve, an advisory body for the implementation of the Statute of Trentino-Südtirol, and was also the provincial Secretary of the Democratic Party of Trentino until 16 March 2014. On 22 January 2018, he was elected as the 31st President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a body bringing together parliamentarians from 47 European nations to promote human rights and democracy. He is only the second Italian to hold the post. He earlier served as the leader of the Assembly's second-largest political group, the Socialist Group, and the head of the Italian parliamentary delegation to the Assembly.\nHe is also a full professor of political philosophy at the University of Trento, in Trentino, Italy.\n\nNicoletti graduated with a degree in philosophy at Bologna and since 2001 has been a professor of political philosophy at the Faculty of Letters and Philosophy (Department of Philosophy, History and Cultural Heritage) and the School of International Studies of the University of Trento. Since 2011, he has been the director of the Antonio Rosmini Study and Research Center in Rovereto. In 2007, he was a Fulbright Distinguished Lecturer at the University of Notre Dame.\n\nOn 6 August 2014, Nicoletti became President of the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In this capacity, he serves on the Sub-Committee on Conflicts between Council of Europe Member States, the Sub-Committee on External Relations, and the Sub-Committee on Ethics. Between 2016 and 2017, he was the Assembly’s rapporteur on corruption.\n\nHe currently lives and works in Trento and Rome. He is married, with three children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11164833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11164833", "title": "Mike Rice Jr.", "text": "Mike Rice Jr.\n\nMichael Thomas Rice Jr. (born February 13, 1969) is an American college basketball coach, formerly the head men's basketball coach at Robert Morris University and later Rutgers University. He is the son of former college basketball coach and Portland Trail Blazers announcer Mike Rice. In 2009, he helped lead Robert Morris to its first NCAA Tournament since 1992. Rice gained national attention in 2013, when ESPN aired Rutgers practice videos showing the coach verbally and physically abusing players. Rice was fired the next day. He resides in Little Silver, New Jersey.\n\nRice was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to Kathy and Mike Rice. He attended Boardman High School in Boardman, Ohio where he was a three year starter as a basketball guard. He was a three-year starter for the Fordham University basketball team from 1988 to 1991 and was captain of the team his senior year when Fordham went to the National Invitation Tournament. He received a bachelor's degree in communication. After graduation he was an assistant coach at several programs including Fordham 1991–1994; Marquette University 1994–1997; Niagara University 1997–1998; Chicago State University 1998–2001; St. Joseph's University 2004–2006; and University of Pittsburgh 2006–2007. In addition he was associated with the Hoop Group in Neptune, New Jersey from 2001 to 2004 where he was director of the Eastern Invitational Basketball Camp.\n\nIn 2007, he became head coach at Robert Morris University, and in 2010 he became head coach of Rutgers University.\n\nOn December 13, 2012, Rice was suspended three games without pay and fined $50,000 for abusive behavior toward his players. The suspension came after athletic director Tim Pernetti obtained video footage from a practice during either Rice's first or second season at Rutgers, at which Rice was seen throwing basketballs at players' heads and cursing at them. Assistant coach David Cox led the team during Rice's suspension. As part of the suspension, Rice was not only banned from any contact with his players or going on recruiting visits, but was banned from coming onto campus altogether. Pernetti characterized the suspension as \"a complete removal from the program,\" but stated that Rice would return to Rutgers for the 2013-14 season pending a review of his behavior.\n\nThe situation changed dramatically on April 2, 2013, when ESPN's \"Outside the Lines\" aired several hours of video from Rice's practices. According to ESPN, the video, provided to Pernetti by then-assistant coach Eric Murdock, showed Rice berating, pushing, kicking, cursing, using homophobic slurs, and throwing basketballs at players during practices. Murdock said that he first told Pernetti about the abuse in the summer of 2012, but Pernetti took no action until he and other Rutgers officials saw the video in December. Murdock claims he was fired in July for reporting the abuse, and sued Rutgers for wrongful termination. An independent investigation found that there was insufficient evidence to support Murdock's claims that Rice created a hostile work environment. It also found the video was not in context, since it depicted practices from Rice's first year at Rutgers. However, it did find that Rice's actions brought \"shame and disgrace\" to Rutgers–on paper, grounds to fire Rice for cause regardless of the merits of Murdock's claims. Pernetti later said that his gut feeling had been to fire Rice on the spot, but ultimately concluded that Rutgers policy would not justify a firing.\n\nThe video touched off a nationwide outcry, with New Jersey Governor Chris Christie condemning Rice's behavior, and State Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver among many demanding that Rice be fired. The next day, Rutgers fired Rice as head coach. According to \"The (Newark) Star-Ledger\", the move came after school president Robert Barchi saw the video for the first time, although he had signed off on Pernetti's decision to suspend Rice in December. When Barchi saw the video, he called in Pernetti and told him that Rice had to leave immediately. Barchi held Pernetti responsible for the debacle, and forced Pernetti's resignation two days later.\n\nIn a post-mortem of the circumstances leading to Rice's firing, \"The New York Times\" reported that Rutgers officials were so focused on whether Rice created a hostile work environment for his assistants that they ignored \"the larger question\" of whether Rice's behavior toward his players in and of itself demanded his firing.\n"}
{"id": "444872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=444872", "title": "Miklós Fehér", "text": "Miklós Fehér\n\nMiklós \"Miki\" Fehér (; 20 July 1979 – 25 January 2004) was a Hungarian professional footballer who played as a striker.\n\nHe spent most of his nine-year career in Portugal, representing four clubs and amassing Primeira Liga totals of 80 games and 27 goals. On 25 January 2004, he died of a cardiac arrest during a match between Vitória de Guimarães and his team Benfica in Guimarães.\n\nFehér represented Hungary at international level, making his debut in 1998 at the age of 19.\n\nBorn in Tatabánya, Fehér started his playing career at Győri ETO FC, where he was spotted by FC Porto scouts. He was signed in 1998 but never really made a breakthrough onto the first team, being loaned to gain experience from ages 20–21 to another two northern sides, S.C. Salgueiros and S.C. Braga.\n\nAt Braga Fehér had his best professional season, scoring 14 Primeira Liga goals in 26 games in 2000–01. After Porto chairman Jorge Nuno Pinto da Costa quarrelled with his agent José Veiga, the player refused to part with the latter and left, joining Lisbon side S.L. Benfica and going on to net eight official goals during two seasons.\n\nOn 25 January 2004, Fehér was in Guimarães with Benfica to play against Vitória de Guimarães. The game was being broadcast live on television, and Benfica were leading 1–0. Fehér had just come on as a substitute and assisted another player just off the bench, Fernando Aguiar, for the match's only goal, but received a yellow card in injury time and suddenly bent forward, seemingly in pain; he then fell backwards to the ground.\n\nMembers of both teams rushed immediately to aid Fehér before medical personnel arrived on the pitch. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation was performed, an ambulance arrived on the pitch and he was rushed to the hospital. His condition was covered by the Portuguese media throughout the day and, before midnight, his death was confirmed, the cause of death being cardiac arrhythmia brought on by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. In his memory Benfica retired the number 29 shirt, which he wore during his time at the club; he was remembered by many and his death caused a profound shock in Portuguese sports. Among others, Porto director of football Reinaldo Teles and manager José Mourinho paid their respects at the Estádio da Luz, where the player's body remained before his burial in his native Hungary.\n\nBenfica's delegation, which included president Luís Filipe Vieira, coach Giovanni Trapattoni and the entire first-team squad, travelled to Hungary, presenting Fehér's parents with the 2004–05 league championship medal, in respect for the player and his time with the club. On 9 October 2009, the day before their 2010 FIFA World Cup qualifier against Portugal in Lisbon, the Hungarian national team squad laid a wreath next to a metal bust of him at Benfica's homeground, in tribute to his memory.\n\nFehér earned his first cap for Hungary on 10 October 1998, in a UEFA Euro 2000 qualifying match against Azerbaijan. He came on as a sixth-minute substitute for Ferenc Horváth at the Tofiq Bahramov Stadium in Baku, and scored the final goal of the 4–0 win.\n\nOn 11 October 2000, Fehér netted a hat-trick in a 6–1 away rout of Lithuania for the 2002 FIFA World Cup qualifiers. In total, he scored seven goals in 25 appearances.\n\nPorto\n\nBenfica\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "942519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=942519", "title": "Mri (fictional alien species)", "text": "Mri (fictional alien species)\n\nThe mri are a fictional alien species in the Faded Sun Trilogy of C. J. Cherryh's Alliance-Union universe. Their culture appears to be drawn upon those of the Apache, Berbers (especially Tuaregs), and Japanese samurai. Their name means simply \"the people,\" and they refer to all other races as \"tsi-mri,\" which literally means \"not people\".\n\nThe mri are a tall and slender humanoid species. Their skin is golden in color and their hair is coarse and golden-brown, generally worn shoulder-length. Their eyes are yellow, with epicanthic folds and a functional nictitating membrane to protect them against wind-blown grit. Their ears are slightly pointed, with a tuft of hair at the tip resembling that of a lynx.\n\nThe mri are divided into a rigid structure of three castes: \"kel\", \"sen\", and \"kath\". These are functional rather than hereditary castes, but each has a clearly defined role in their society, and the mri regard any change in those traditional functions as completely unacceptable.\n\nThe language of the mri appears to be agglutinative, with each element having a single function. The apostrophes that give mri words their distinctive appearance appear to represent a glottal stop when separating two vowels, for instance, in \"kel’e’en\", \"a woman of the kel\". However, in other words they seem to merely mark the boundaries between morphemes. There are a few words in which the function of the apostrophe is unclear, and it has been suggested that those are purely decorative, to make the words look more alien.\n\nA careful reader can assemble a fairly large vocabulary of nouns, and even conjecture additional forms. However, there is little in the way of verbs or grammatical structure, so the novels cannot be used as the basis of a working language, as opposed to the elvish languages of J. R. R. Tolkien's Middle-earth.\n\nThe mri originated on the world of Kutath, an ancient world which they shared with four other races. As resources grew scarcer, a portion of them left Kutath in slowships, seeking other worlds. They would hire on as mercenaries with a race, but each time the relationship ended badly, and they left a ruined world behind to seek a new start. During each journey, or Dark, everything but the ancient traditions of the mri were forgotten by kel and kath, with only the sen retaining records of the Between they had left between. A hint of this process remained in the \"Shon’jir\" or passing song which was sung at births and deaths, but most kel of the Between thought of it only as referring to the individual.\n\nAfter more than eighty such migrations, the mri settled on Kesrith, a desert planet not dissimilar to their lost home. There they encountered the dusei, bearlike telepaths who had intelligence but not the capacity for speech. The dusei established bonds with warriors of the kel, but were said to find the minds of sen too cold for their tastes. Thus the mri were found by the regul, a race of traders from Nurag, a planet of the Mab system. Various regul clans or \"docha\" hired mri as bodyguards, giving the mri the opportunity to hone their skills against one another.\n\nThe situation changed when the regul encountered humans and war broke out. Atrocities occurred on both sides, at least in part due to the inability of the regul to imagine the future. After forty years of war, the mri were nearly exterminated. The regul negotiated a peace which involved handing Kesrith over to humanity, then betrayed the mri to prevent the mercenaries from switching sides. All the mri save two were murdered.\n\nAfter the human protagonist, Sten Duncan, was adopted by the mri, the human command decided to risk an experiment. Using an ancient sacred navigation record, they put Duncan and the two surviving mri, Niun and Melein, aboard a ship and sent them back to the lost homeworld of the mri. On the way, Niun forced Duncan to learn to become a mri, with death the penalty for failure.\n\nAs a result, they were reunited with the mri of Kutath, and Melein took command of one tribe. Humans and regul had followed them on their journey, and the regul were ready to commit genocide again to ensure that the mri did not hire on with the humans. However, their murderous plans were foiled, and humans ultimately established an understanding with the mri when a human scholar learned to play \"shon’ai\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2890553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2890553", "title": "Murder of Taylor Behl", "text": "Murder of Taylor Behl\n\nTaylor Marie Behl (; October 13, 1987 – September 6, 2005) was a 17-year-old college freshman from Vienna, Virginia. She moved to Richmond, Virginia, in August 2005 to attend Virginia Commonwealth University. About two weeks later on Labor Day, September 5, 2005, Behl disappeared. Acting on a tip one month later, VCU police located her remains at a rural area in Mathews County, Virginia. Behl's disappearance and death were the subject of a major police investigation and became an Internet cause célèbre. \"Love You More: The Taylor Behl Story\", a book written by her mother, was released on November 7, 2006.\n\nIn the early morning hours of Saturday, September 17, 2005, Behl's car was found in a residential neighborhood about a mile and a half from the VCU Campus. A K-9 unit police were using on the car led them to Jesse Schultz, 22, who lived in the area where Behl's car was found. Police reported that Schultz failed questions on a lie detector test when he claimed not to know and not to have been in Behl's car, and was arrested on cocaine possession charges.\n\nNumerous search warrants were executed, including Behl's mother's home in Vienna, Virginia, and Behl's VCU Gladding Residence Center dorm room. Those questioned by police at this phase of the investigation included \"Jake,\" a VCU student and former boyfriend of Behl with whom she had dinner after she returned to Richmond on September 5, and another unnamed friend of Schultz and Behl, whose car was impounded for forensic tests because police believed that Behl might have been in his car before her disappearance. The \"Richmond Times-Dispatch\" reported that this \"friend in common\" refused a polygraph test.\n\nAnother of the last individuals to have seen Behl alive was Benjamin Fawley, a 38-year-old amateur photographer and self-described \"Goth/skater from the 1980s.\" Investigators focused on Fawley as they began to uncover his and Behl's relationship. Fawley's attorney, Chris Collins, confirmed that Fawley \"is a suspect and should be a suspect because he knew her.\" Police began to become more suspicious when Fawley's alibi did not hold up, and executed a search warrant issued by Richmond Circuit Court Judge Beverly W. Snukals on Fawley for offenses \"substantially described as...taking indecent liberties with children attempted\" and \"contributing to the delinquency of a minor.\" Police were looking for, among other things, \"women's clothing,\" Behl's Nokia camera phone, \"Taylor Behl's key ring,\" her money, and \"burglary tools.\" As a result of the search, Fawley was arrested that day, Friday, September 23, 2005, and charged with 16 counts of child pornography.\n\nOn Wednesday, October 12, 2005, Fawley, against his attorney's advice, spoke to police investigators. Fawley reportedly admitted to being with Behl the night of September 5 and into the early morning hours of September 6, 2005. He allegedly said that Behl died accidentally during a consensual sex act (likely erotic asphyxiation) with him in her car at Mathews County, Virginia. He claimed he then panicked and dumped her unburied body in a shallow ravine.\n\nA surveillance video showed Behl and Fawley entering the VCU Gladding Residence Center together at 10:18 p.m. and Fawley waiting for Behl in the dorm's lobby while she went to her dorm room. The video's final frames show Behl and Fawley leaving the dorm together.\n\nBehl's mother Janet Pelasara called Fawley \"a big, fat liar\" and claimed that Behl had sex \"once out of curiosity\" with Fawley in April 2005, \"and then didn't want anything to do with him.\"\n\nOn Monday, October 17, 2005, Richmond Circuit Court Chief Judge, Margaret Spencer, issued a gag order, prohibiting witnesses who appear before the court from publicly discussing their testimony, effectively quashing any witness accounts becoming public until Fawley's trial.\n\nSince then, court records have shown that on Tuesday, January 17, 2006, Mathews County, Virginia indicted Fawley for Behl's murder. The indictment accuses him of killing Behl \"willfully, deliberately and with premeditation\" while attempting to abduct and rape her.\n\nOn Monday, February 13, 2006, the indictment was amended, barring immediate accusations of rape and abduction. The reworded first-degree murder charge now accuses that Fawley \"did feloniously kill and murder Taylor Marie Behl.\"\n\nOn Wednesday, August 9, 2006, Circuit Court Judge William H. Shaw, III accepted Fawley's guilty plea to second degree murder and sentenced him to thirty years in prison. Fawley had entered an Alford plea.\n\nIn September 2007, Chuck Cohen, a first sergeant with the Indiana State Police, told a class of 21 law enforcement agencies studying \"how criminals often leave an online trail at social networking sites such as MySpace and Facebook\" that the Taylor Behl case marked one of the first times that police narrowed down their suspect pool using a MySpace friends list. Cohen said that Fawley's Internet footprint eventually led police to Behl's body.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "440706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440706", "title": "Neuroevolution", "text": "Neuroevolution\n\nNeuroevolution, or neuro-evolution, is a form of artificial intelligence that uses evolutionary algorithms to generate artificial neural networks (ANN), parameters, topology and rules. It is most commonly applied in artificial life, general game playing and evolutionary robotics. The main benefit is that neuroevolution can be applied more widely than supervised learning algorithms, which require a syllabus of correct input-output pairs. In contrast, neuroevolution requires only a measure of a network's performance at a task. For example, the outcome of a game (i.e. whether one player won or lost) can be easily measured without providing labeled examples of desired strategies. Neuroevolution can be contrasted with conventional deep learning techniques that use gradient descent on a neural network with a fixed topology.\n\nMany neuroevolution algorithms have been defined. One common distinction is between algorithms that evolve only the strength of the connection weights for a fixed network topology (sometimes called conventional neuroevolution), as opposed to those that evolve both the topology of the network and its weights (called TWEANNs, for Topology and Weight Evolving Artificial Neural Network algorithms).\n\nA separate distinction can be made between methods that evolve the structure of ANNs in parallel to its parameters (those applying standard evolutionary algorithms) and those that develop them separately (through memetic algorithms).\n\nMost neural networks use gradient descent rather than neuroevolution. However, around 2017 researchers at Uber stated they had found that simple structural neuroevolution algorithms were competitive with sophisticated modern industry-standard gradient-descent deep learning algorithms, in part because neuroevolution was found to be less likely to get stuck in local minima. In \"Science\",\njournalist Matthew Hutson speculated that part of the reason neuroevolution is succeeding where it had failed before is due to the increased computational power available in the 2010s.\n\nEvolutionary algorithms operate on a population of genotypes (also referred to as genomes). In neuroevolution, a genotype is mapped to a neural network phenotype that is evaluated on some task to derive its fitness.\n\nIn \"direct\" encoding schemes the genotype directly maps to the phenotype. That is, every neuron and connection in the neural network is specified directly and explicitly in the genotype. In contrast, in \"indirect\" encoding schemes the genotype specifies indirectly how that network should be generated.\n\nIndirect encodings are often used to achieve several aims:\n\nTraditionally indirect encodings that employ artificial embryogeny (also known as artificial development) have been categorised along the lines of a \"grammatical approach\" versus a \"cell chemistry approach\". The former evolves sets of rules in the form of grammatical rewrite systems. The latter attempts to mimic how physical structures emerge in biology through gene expression. Indirect encoding systems often use aspects of both approaches.\n\nStanley and Miikkulainen propose a taxonomy for embryogenic systems that is intended to reflect their underlying properties. The taxonomy identifies five continuous dimensions, along which any embryogenic system can be placed:\n\nExamples of neuroevolution methods (those with direct encodings are necessarily non-embryogenic):\n\n"}
{"id": "390581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=390581", "title": "Nikolaus Lenau", "text": "Nikolaus Lenau\n\nNikolaus Lenau was the nom de plume of Nikolaus Franz Niembsch Edler von Strehlenau (13 August 1802 – 22 August 1850), a German-language Austrian poet.\n\nHe was born at Schadat, now Lenauheim, Banat, then in Hungary, now Romania. His father, a Habsburg government official, died in 1807 in Budapest, leaving his children in the care of their mother, who remarried in 1811. In 1819 Nikolaus went to the University of Vienna; he subsequently studied Hungarian law at Pozsony (Bratislava) and then spent the next four years qualifying himself in medicine. Unable to settle down to any profession, he began writing verse. The disposition to sentimental melancholy inherited from his mother, stimulated by disappointments in love and by the prevailing fashion of the romantic school of poetry, descended into gloom after his mother's death in 1829.\n\nSoon afterwards, however, a legacy from his grandmother enabled him to devote himself wholly to poetry. His first published poems appeared in 1827, in Johann Gabriel Seidl's \"Aurora\". In 1831 he moved to Stuttgart, where he published a volume of \"Gedichte\" (1832) dedicated to the Swabian poet, Gustav Schwab. He also made the acquaintance of Ludwig Uhland, Justinus Kerner, Karl Mayer and others. His restless spirit longed for change, and he determined to seek peace and freedom in America.\n\nIn October 1832 he landed at Baltimore and settled on a homestead in Ohio. He also lived six months in New Harmony, Indiana, with a group called the Harmony Society. Life in the primeval forest fell lamentably short of the ideal he had pictured. He disliked Americans with their eternal English lisping of dollars (\"englisches Talergelispel\"), and in 1833 returned to Germany. The appreciation of his first volume of poems revived his spirits.\n\nFrom then on he lived partly in Stuttgart and partly in Vienna. In 1836 his \"Faust\" appeared, in which he laid bare his own soul to the world; in 1837, \"Savonarola\", an epic in which freedom from political and intellectual tyranny as an essential component of Christianity was stated. In 1838 his \"Neuere Gedichte\" proved that \"Savonarola\" had been the result of a passing exaltation. Of these new poems, some of the finest were inspired by his hopeless passion for Sophie von Löwenthal, the wife of a friend. In 1842 appeared \"Die Albigenser\", and in 1844 he began writing his \"Don Juan\", a fragment of which was published after his death.\n\nSoon afterwards he developed signs of mental ill-health. In October 1844, he jumped from a window one morning and ran down a street shouting \"Revolt! Freedom! Help! Fire!\". He was placed in an asylum, under restraint, for the remainder of his life. He died in the asylum at Oberdöbling near Vienna and was buried in the cemetery of Weidling, near Klosterneuburg. On his grave is the replica of an open book with an extract from one of his poems (\"An Frau Kleyle\") inscribed on the left-hand page, while on the right-hand page there is the final stanza from his poem \"Vergangenheit\". The city of Stockerau in Lower Austria has proclaimed itself \"Lenau City\", because Nikolaus Lenau went on extensive walks in the alluvial forests next to Stockerau and the Danube and was inspired to write one of his most famous lyric poems, \"Schilflieder\", during this time. He has various streets and squares in Vienna and the surrounding area named after him.\n\nLenau's fame rests mainly upon his shorter poems; even his epics are essentially lyric in quality. His excellent poem, \"Herbst\", expresses the sadness and melancholy he felt after his sojourn in the United States and his strenuous travels across the Atlantic to return to Europe. In it, he mourns the loss of youth, the passing of time and his own sense of futility. The poem is archetypal of Lenau's style and culminates with the speaker dreaming of death as a final escape from emptiness. He is the greatest modern lyric poet of Austria, and the typical representative in German literature of that pessimistic \"Weltschmerz\" which, beginning with Lord Byron, reached its culmination in the poetry of Giacomo Leopardi.\n\nLenau's \"Sämtliche Werke\" were first published in 4 vols. by Anastasius Grün in 1855, \nbut there are several more modern editions, as those by Max Koch in Joseph Kürschner's \"Deutsche Nationalliteratur\" of 1888 (vols. 154 and 155), and E. Castle (2 vols., 1900).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17471313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17471313", "title": "Olivier Chandon de Brailles", "text": "Olivier Chandon de Brailles\n\nOlivier Chandon (17 September 1955 – 2 March 1983), also called Olivier Chandon de Brailles, Oliver Chandon de Briailles, and Olivier Chandon Debrailles, was a French race car driver, heir to the Moët et Chandon champagne, and one-time boyfriend of the American model Christie Brinkley.\n\nOlivier Chandon de Brailles was the only son of Frederic Chandon de Brailles, chairman of the Moët-Hennessy group and heir to the Moët & Chandon champagne fortune.\n\nChandon spoke five languages, was a race car driver and skydiver.\n\nA graduate of Le Rosey in Switzerland, he served in the French Air Force and later moved to New York City. There he attended New York University to study marketing and worked in the sales department of United Technologies. Earlier, he began racing cars in Europe at age 18, whereby he assumed the shortened name of Olivier Chandon. He later resumed his race car career in the United States.\n\nOn 2 March 1983, Chandon, a member of the \"New York-based Fred Opert Racing Team\", was killed while driving a Ralt Formula Atlantic race car in a private practice session at Moroso Motorsport Park in West Palm Beach, Florida, while preparing for the upcoming Formula Atlantic season. Travelling over 100 miles per hour, Chandon's vehicle crashed through a barrier, fell into a canal and landed upside down, where he was pinned in his car at the feet and drowned in an otherwise survivable accident. The cause of the accident could not be determined: either the throttle stuck or driver error.\n\nChandon had a romantic relationship with model Christie Brinkley. The two first met at Studio 54 where she was holding a party to promote Brinkley‘s 1982 calendar and then they became an \"item\" for the gossip magazines. Chandon had phoned her less than an hour before the accident to arrange to meet her in Palm Beach that evening. When told of the accident, a distraught Brinkley stayed in California.\n\nOlivier Chandon is buried in the Laferté-sur-Aube cemetery, in Haute-Marne.\n"}
{"id": "22078673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22078673", "title": "Overview effect", "text": "Overview effect\n\nThe overview effect is a cognitive shift in awareness reported by some astronauts during spaceflight, often while viewing the Earth from outer space.\n\nIt is the experience of seeing firsthand the reality of the Earth in space, which is immediately understood to be a tiny, fragile ball of life, \"hanging in the void\", shielded and nourished by a paper-thin atmosphere. From space, national boundaries vanish, the conflicts that divide people become less important, and the need to create a planetary society with the united will to protect this \"pale blue dot\" becomes both obvious and imperative.\n\nAstronauts Ron Garan, Rusty Schweikart, Edgar Mitchell, Tom Jones, Scott Kelly, James Irwin, Mike Massimino and Chris Hadfield are all reported to have experienced the effect. Third-party observers of these individuals may also report a noticeable difference in attitude.\n\nThe term and concept were coined in 1987 by Frank White, who explored the theme in his book \"The Overview Effect — Space Exploration and Human Evolution\" (Houghton-Mifflin, 1987), (AIAA, 1998).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "62313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62313", "title": "Pharmacia", "text": "Pharmacia\n\nPharmacia was a pharmaceutical and biotechnological company in Sweden that merged with the American pharmaceutical company Upjohn in 1995.\n\nPharmacia company was founded in 1911 in Stockholm, Sweden by pharmacist Gustav Felix Grönfeldt at the \"Elgen\" Pharmacy. The company is named after the Greek word φαρμακεία, transliterated \"pharmakeia\", which means 'sorcery'. In the company's early days, much of its profits were derived from the \"miracle medicine\" Phospho-Energon.\n\nDuring World War II, Swedish chemist Björn Ingelman (who worked for Arne Tiselius at Uppsala university) researched various uses for the polysaccharide dextran. Together with the medical researcher Anders Grönwall, he discovered that dextran could be used as a replacement for blood plasma in blood transfusions, for which there could be a large need in wartime. Pharmacia, which then was still a small company, was contacted in 1943 and its CEO Elis Göth was very interested. The product Macrodex, a dextran solution, was launched four years later.\n\nDextran-based products were to play a significant role in the further expansion of Pharmacia. In 1951, the company moved to Uppsala, Sweden, to get closer to the scientists with whom they cooperated, and Ingelman became its head of research. In 1959, Pharmacia pioneered gel filtration with its Sephadex products. These were also based on dextran and discoveries in Tiselius' department, this time by Jerker Porath and Per Flodin. In 1967 Pharmacia Fine Chemicals was established in Uppsala. In 1986 Pharmacia Fine Chemicals acquired LKB-produkter AB and changed name to Pharmacia Biotech. Pharmacia Biotech expanded their role in the \"biotech revolution\" through its acquisition of PL Laboratories from Pabst Brewery offering a line of recombinant DNA specialty research chemicals. Sold to private interests in the 1990s, Pharmacia was first merged with \"Kabi Vitrum\" to form Kabi Pharmacia with headquarters in Uppsala. In 1993, Kabi Pharmacia bought Farmitalia, an Italian company that had developed doxorubicin, a chemotherapeutic.\n\nIn 1995 the company merged with the American pharmaceutical company Upjohn, becoming known as Pharmacia & Upjohn and moved its headquarters to London.\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's mergers, acquisitions, spin-offs and historical predecessors:\n"}
{"id": "11963403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11963403", "title": "Phi complex", "text": "Phi complex\n\nThe phi complex is a brain rhythm in the awake human brain that appears to serve various social functions. Phi is one of several brain rhythms in the awake human brain that coordinate human behavior. \"Phi\" operates in the 10-Hz band (ten oscillations per second), and is located above the right centro-parietal cortex. It consists of two components, one favoring independent behaviors, and the other favoring interpersonal coordination between people.\n\nThe brain wave patterns of the phi complex are consistent with those of waves produced in the human mirror neuron system. The phi complex may reflect the influence of one person upon another's behavior, with phi-1 expressing the inhibition of the human mirror neuron system and phi-2 its enhancement.\n\nResearchers from Florida Atlantic University (FAU), in one of the first studies in the field of social neuroscience, have identified neural signatures of effective, real-time coordination between people. FAU researchers have recorded, measured and analyzed both behavior and brain activity simultaneously in two interacting humans that could provide insight into neurological disorders, such as autism and schizophrenia. The research used the conceptual framework and methods of coordination dynamics.\n\nUsing specially designed dual-electroencephalogram recordings, Tognoli and her colleagues tested the brain activity of two people simultaneously performing continuous finger motion. Initially, two subjects were asked to rhythmically wag their fingers at their own preferential pace, but were prevented from seeing each other's hands. Then the barrier placed between them was then removed, so they could see each other while continuing to wag their fingers. When subjects were allowed to see one another's fingers moving, they sometimes adjusted their own movements and synchronized, and sometimes they did not, behaving independently.\n\nThe researchers believe that the use of dual EEG recordings to observe the phi complex could help scientists better understand what triggers leader/follower behaviors and male/female relationships. The researchers reported that 62% of respondents synchronized their movements upon being exposed to one another's finger-wagging, but 38% were unaffected and continued gesturing independently.\n\nThe study demonstrated a clear reduction in occipital lobe alpha wave and mu wave rhythms during social interaction. The evident suppression was independent of whether or not behavior was coordinated. In contrast, a pair of oscillatory components (phi-1 and phi-2) above the right centro-parietal cortex distinguished effective from ineffective coordination. An increase of phi-1 favored independent behavior and increase of phi-2 favored coordinated behavior.\n\nAccording to Kelso \"What this research suggests is that a unique pattern can be seen in the brains of two people interacting and that these brain activities distinguish independence from cooperation. This new brain rhythm that we have discovered and termed the 'phi complex' actually distinguishes when you're socially interacting and when you're not.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "464804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=464804", "title": "Social cognition", "text": "Social cognition\n\nSocial cognition is \"a sub-topic of social psychology that focuses on how people process, store, and apply information about other people and social situations. It focuses on the role that cognitive processes play in social interactions.\"\n\nMore technically, social cognition refers to how people deal with conspecifics (members of the same species) or even across species (such as pet) information, include four stages: encoding, storage, retrieval, and processing. In the area of social psychology, social cognition refers to a specific approach in which these processes are studied according to the methods of cognitive psychology and information processing theory. According to this view, social cognition is a level of analysis that aims to understand social psychological phenomena by investigating the cognitive processes that underlie them. The major concerns of the approach are the processes involved in the perception, judgment, and memory of social stimuli; the effects of social and affective factors on information processing; and the behavioral and interpersonal consequences of cognitive processes. This level of analysis may be applied to any content area within social psychology, including research on intrapersonal, interpersonal, intragroup, and intergroup processes.\n\nThe term \"social cognition\" has been used in multiple areas in psychology and cognitive neuroscience, most often to refer to various social abilities disrupted in autism, schizophrenia and other disorders. In cognitive neuroscience the biological basis of social cognition is investigated. Developmental psychologists study the development of social cognition abilities.\n\nSocial cognition came to prominence with the rise of cognitive psychology in the late 1960s and early 1970s and is now the dominant model and approach in mainstream social psychology. Common to social cognition theories is the idea that information is represented in the brain as \"cognitive elements\" such as schemas, attributions, or stereotypes. A focus on how these cognitive elements are processed is often employed. Social cognition therefore applies and extends many themes, theories, and paradigms from cognitive psychology that can be identified in reasoning (representativeness heuristic, base rate fallacy and confirmation bias), attention (automaticity and priming) and memory (schemas, primacy and recency). It is likely that social psychology has always had a more cognitive than general psychology approach, as it traditionally discussed internal mental states such as beliefs and desires when mainstream psychology was dominated by behaviorism.\n\nOne notable theory of social cognition is social schema theory, although it is not the basis of all social cognition studies (for example, see attribution theory). It has been suggested that other disciplines in social psychology such as social identity theory and social representations may be seeking to explain largely the same phenomena as social cognition, and that these different disciplines might be merged into a \"coherent integrated whole\". A parallel paradigm has arisen in the study of action, termed motor cognition, which is concerned with understanding the representation of action and the associated process.\n\nSocial schema theory builds on and uses terminology from schema theory in cognitive psychology, which describes how ideas or \"concepts\" are represented in the brain and how they are categorized. According to this view, when we see or think of a concept a mental representation or schema is \"activated\" bringing to mind other information which is linked to the original concept by association. This activation often happens unconsciously. As a result of activating such schemas, judgements are formed which go beyond the information actually available, since many of the associations the schema evokes extend outside the given information. This may influence social cognition and behaviour regardless of whether these judgements are accurate or not. For example, if an individual is introduced as a teacher, then a \"teacher schema\" may be activated. Subsequently, we might associate this person with wisdom or authority, or past experiences of teachers that we remember and consider important.\n\nWhen a schema is more accessible it can be more quickly activated and used in a particular situation. Two cognitive processes that increase accessibility of schemas are salience and priming. Salience is the degree to which a particular social object stands out relative to other social objects in a situation. The higher the salience of an object the more likely that schemas for that object will be made accessible. For example, if there is one female in a group of seven males, female gender schemas may be more accessible and influence the group's thinking and behavior toward the female group member. Priming refers to any experience immediately prior to a situation that causes a schema to be more accessible. For example, watching a scary movie late at night might increase the accessibility of frightening schemas, increasing the likelihood that a person will perceive shadows and background noises as potential threats.\n\nSocial cognition researchers are interested in how new information is integrated into pre-established schemas, especially when the information contrasts with the existing schema. For example, a student may have a pre-established schema that all teachers are assertive and bossy. After encountering a teacher who is timid and shy, a social cognition researcher might be interested in how the student will integrate this new information with his/her existing teacher schema. Pre-established schemas tend to guide attention to new information, as people selectively attend to information that is consistent with the schema and ignore information that is inconsistent. This is referred to as a confirmation bias. Sometimes inconsistent information is sub-categorized and stored away as a special case, leaving the original schema intact without any alterations. This is referred to as subtyping.\n\nSocial cognition researchers are also interested in the regulation of activated schemas. It is believed that the situational activation of schemas is automatic, meaning that it is outside individual conscious control. In many situations however, the schematic information that has been activated may be in conflict with the social norms of the situation in which case an individual is motivated to inhibit the influence of the schematic information on their thinking and social behavior. Whether a person will successfully regulate the application of the activated schemas is dependent on individual differences in self-regulatory ability and the presence of situational impairments to executive control. High self-regulatory ability and the lack of situational impairments on executive functioning increase the likelihood that individuals will successfully inhibit the influence of automatically activated schemas on their thinking and social behavior. When people stop suppressing the influence of the unwanted thoughts, a rebound effect can occur where the thought becomes hyper-accessible.\n\nSocial psychologists have become increasingly interested in the influence of culture on social cognition. Although people of all cultures use schemas to understand the world, the content of schemas has been found to differ for individuals based on their cultural upbringing. For example, one study interviewed a Scottish settler and a Bantu herdsman from Swaziland and compared their schemas about cattle. Because cattle are essential to the lifestyle of the Bantu people, the Bantu herdsmen's schemas for cattle were far more extensive than the schemas of the Scottish settler. The Bantu herdsmen was able to distinguish his cattle from dozens of others, while the Scottish settler was not.\n\nCultural influences have been found to shape some of the basic ways in which people automatically perceive and think about their environment. For example, a number of studies have found that people who grow up in East Asian cultures such as China and Japan tend to develop holistic thinking styles, whereas people brought up in Western cultures like Australia and the USA tend to develop analytic thinking styles. The typically Eastern holistic thinking style is a type of thinking in which people focus on the overall context and the ways in which objects relate to each other. For example, if an Easterner was asked to judge how a classmate is feeling then he/she might scan everyone's face in the class, and then use this information to judge how the individual is feeling. On the other hand, the typically Western analytic thinking style is a type of thinking style in which people focus on individual objects and neglect to consider the surrounding context. For example, if a Westerner was asked to judge how a classmate is feeling, then he or she might focus only on the classmate's face in order to make the judgment.\n\nNisbett (2003) suggested that cultural differences in social cognition may stem from the various philosophical traditions of the East (i.e. Confucianism and Buddhism) versus the Greek philosophical traditions (i.e. of Aristotle and Plato) of the West. However, recent research indicates that differences in social cognition may originate from physical differences in the environments of the two cultures. One study found that scenes from Japanese cities were 'busier' than those in the USA as they contain more objects which compete for attention. In this study, the Eastern holistic thinking style (and focus on the overall context) was attributed to the busier nature of the Japanese physical environment.\n\nEarly interest in the relationship between brain function and social cognition includes the case of Phineas Gage, whose behaviour was reported to have changed after an accident damaged one or both of his frontal lobes. More recent neuropsychological studies have shown that brain injuries disrupt social cognitive processes. For example, damage to the frontal lobes can affect emotional responses to social stimuli and performance on theory of mind tasks. In the temporal lobe, damage to the fusiform gyrus can lead to the inability to recognize faces.\n\nPeople with psychological disorders such as autism, psychosis, mood disorder, Williams syndrome, antisocial personality disorder, Fragile X and Turner's syndrome show differences in social behavior compared to their unaffected peers. Parents with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) show disturbances in at least one aspect of social cognition: namely, joint attention with their young children only after a laboratory-induced relational stressor as compared to healthy parents without PTSD. However, whether social cognition is underpinned by domain-specific neural mechanisms is still an open issue. There is now an expanding research field examining how such conditions may bias cognitive processes involved in social interaction, or conversely, how such biases may lead to the symptoms associated with the condition.\n\nThe development of social cognitive processes in infants and children has also been researched extensively (see developmental psychology). For example, it has been suggested that some aspects of psychological processes that promote social behavior (such as facial recognition) may be innate. Consistent with this, very young babies recognize and selectively respond to social stimuli such as the voice, face and scent of their mother.\n\n"}
{"id": "1802627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1802627", "title": "Stanisław Bułak-Bałachowicz", "text": "Stanisław Bułak-Bałachowicz\n\nStanisław Bułak-Bałachowicz (, ; 12 November 1883 – 28 November 1940) was a notable general, military commander and veteran of World War I, Russian Civil War, Estonian War of Independence, Polish-Bolshevik War and the Invasion of Poland at the start of World War II.\n\nStanisław Bułak-Bałachowicz was born 10 February 1883 in Meyszty, a small village in the Kovno Governorate of the Russian Empire (now Braslaw Raion in Belarus). Stanisław had two brothers and six sisters. His parents were servants to a local landlord of Belarusian ethnicity.\n\nFollowing Stanisław' birth, his father left the landlord's service and acquired a small estate in Stakavievo near Vilnius.\n\nAfter attending an agricultural school for four years in Belmonty, Bułak-Bałachowicz worked as an accountant, and in 1904 became a manager at the Count Plater's estates in Horodziec and Łużki.\n\nAt the time, he had a reputation as a defender of the less fortunate and was often an arbitrator in disputes between the farmers and their landlord. As a result of these activities he acquired the nickname \"Daddy\" (Bat'ka). His other nickname—\"Bulak\"— became part of his surname. It means a man who is driven by the wind in the Belarusian language.\n\nAfter the outbreak of World War I and Duke Nikolai Nikolayevich Romanov's address to the Polish people, Bułak-Bałachowicz joined the Russian Imperial army. As a person of noble roots, he was drafted as an ensign to the 2nd Leyb-Courland Infantry Regiment. However, unlike many of his colleagues who were awarded the basic NCO grades for their noble ancestry only, Bułak-Bałachowicz proved himself as a skilled field commander and was quickly promoted. By December 1914, only four months after he entered the army, he was given command over a group of Cossack volunteers, of whom he formed a cavalry squadron. Together with the 2nd Cavalry Division he fought on the western front, most notably in the area of Sochaczew near Warsaw.\n\nDuring the German summer offensive of 1915 Warsaw was taken by the Central Powers and Bułak-Bałachowicz's unit was forced to retreat towards Latvia.\n\nOn November 1915, Bułak-Bałachowicz was assigned to the special partisan regiment in Northern front headquarters as a squadron commander. His regiment under the command of colonel Punin L. was acting in the Riga area. For their audacious actions partisans were nicknamed \"deathknights\".\n\nHis unit was formed of four cavalry platoons: one of Cossack light cavalry, one of hussars, one of uhlans and one of dragoons. Thanks to the versatile and flexible structure of his unit, Bułak-Bałachowicz managed to continue the fight behind the enemy lines until 1918.\n\nFor the German campaign Bułak-Bałachowicz was decorated with six orders and three soldier's Georgiev medals (2nd, 3rd, and 4th degree).\n\nOn 5 March 1918, unaware of the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk signed only two days before, the unit commanded by Bułak-Bałachowicz got engaged in a skirmish against a German unit near the village of Smolova. Although the enemy unit was severely defeated, forced to retreat and abandon its staff behind, Bułak-Bałachowicz was seriously wounded after being shot in the left lung. Transported to Saint Petersburg, Bułak-Bałachowicz quickly recovered and rejoined with his brother, Józef Bułak-Bałachowicz. The latter got involved in the creation of a Polish cavalry detachment commanded by ensign Przysiecki. The Bolsheviks disbanded the unit soon after its formation, executed its commander and started to persecute its members. However, with a help of French military mission a Polish cavalry detachment was finally created and Stanisław Bułak-Bałachowicz became its commander. The new unit received Leon Trotsky's recognition and was soon reinforced with non-Polish volunteers from all over Russia and was planned as a cavalry division of the Red Army.\n\nSoon after its creation, Bułak-Bałachowicz was ordered to quell the so-called \"Baron Korff Revolt\" in the area of the city of Luga. With his regiment (the unit was still not completely formed) he reached the area and pacified the peasant unrest without the use of force. He was immediately called in to Saint Petersburg by his superiors, but was afraid of being arrested. Because of that, Bułak-Bałachowicz with his cavalry regiment deserted and moved across the Bolshevik lines to the area of Pskov, held by the joint forces of White Russian Northern Army and various German anti-Bolshevik units. Initially the unit fought against the Reds on the White side, but soon conflicts with the German officials arose and Bułak-Bałachowicz had to switch sides yet again. Together with his battle-hardened unit he disarmed the German units surrounding him and broke to the rear of the Red-held territory. From there he fought his way across the fronts to Estonia, where he finally joined the forces of General Nikolai Nikolaevich Yudenich's Northwestern Army. A skilled commander, Bułak-Bałachowicz added greatly to the Estonian victories in the battles of Tartu, Võru, and Vastseliina, and was soon promoted to lieutenant colonel.\n\nOn 10 May 1919, Bałachowicz was given the command over an \"assault group\" and was ordered to drive it to the rear of the Bolshevik lines. Three days later his forces took the town of Gdov by surprise and on 29 May Bałachowicz entered Pskov. For this action he was promoted to colonel by General Yudenich himself. Because of his victories, his subordinates (mostly Belarusian, Cossack, and Polish volunteers) nicknamed him ataman, though some preferred to use the term \"Bat'ko\" – father.\n\nBułak-Bałachowicz became the military administrator of Pskov. He personally ceded most of his responsibilities to a democratically elected municipal duma and focused on both cultural and economical recovery of the war-impoverished city. He also put an end to censorship of press and allowed for creation of several socialist associations and newspapers, which enraged White generals towards him. Finally, Bułak-Bałachowicz entered in contact with Estonian officers and Poles who were trying to reach the renascent Polish Army, which was seen by Bałachowicz's superiors as a sign of lack of loyalty. After Pskov was yet again lost to the Bolsheviks in mid-July, general Yudenich ordered Stanisław Bułak-Bałachowicz to be arrested even though only a few days earlier he promoted him to major general (a move Yudenich undertook with hopes of appeasing Bułak-Bałachowicz and encouraging greater subordinance).\n\nHowever, once again Bułak-Bałachowicz evaded being captured. He handed over his division to his brother Józef and, together with 20 of his friends, left for Estonian-controlled Ostrov. There he once again created a partisan unit. With 600 men he broke through the Red Army front and started to disrupt its supply lines. Despite Yudenich's hostility towards Bułak-Bałachowicz, the latter cooperated with White Russian units during their counter-offensive in the autumn of 1919. His unit captured the railway node in Porkhov and broke the Pskov-Polotsk rail road, which added greatly to the White Russian's initial success. On 5 November 1919 his unit yet again entered the area between Pskov and Ostrov and destroyed the three remaining railway lines linking Pskov with the rest of Russia. However, Yudenich's army could not link up with the areas controlled by Bułak-Bałachowicz and their assault was finally broken.\n\nOn 22 January 1920, general Yudenich signed an order of dissolution of his badly-beaten army. On 28 January general Bułak-Bałachowicz, together with several Russian officers and the Estonian police arrested him. A large amount of money was found with him (roughly 227.000 pounds, 250.000 Estonian marks and 110.000.000 Finnish marks) was given to the soldiers of the disbanded army as a last salary, which greatly added to Bałachowicz's popularity amongst them.\n\nSince 1918, Bałachowicz has been in contacts with the representatives of the Belarusian Democratic Republic in the Baltic states. On 7 November 1919, the government of the BDR agreed to finance Bałachowicz's unit and on 14 November, Stanisław Bułak-Bałachowicz confirmed his Belarusian citizenship and applied for official service for the Belarusian Democratic Republic. His unit was officially renamed to \"Special Unit of the Belarusian Democratic Republic in the Baltics\" (), received Belarusian uniforms and a seal. The unit issued its own field postal stamps and engaged in a few minor battles with the Bolsheviks.\n\nIn February 1920 Stanisław Bułak-Bałachowicz contacted Józef Piłsudski through the Polish envoy to Riga and proposed to ally his unit with the Polish Army against the Bolshevist Russia. As the fame of the general preceded him, Piłsudski agreed and soon afterwards Bułak-Bałachowicz with some 800 cavalrymen set off for yet another of his great odysseys. After leaving Estonia, they outflanked the Red Russian lines and rode several hundred kilometres behind the enemy lines to Latvia, where they were allowed to pass through Latvian territory. Finally by mid-March they reached Dyneburg (now Daugavpils, then under Polish military administration), where they were greeted as heroes by Józef Piłsudski himself.\nTransferred to Brześć Litewski, the Bułak-Bałachowicz's unit was reformed into a \"Bułak-Bałachowicz Operational Group\", sometimes incorrectly referred to as \"Belarusian-Lithuanian Division\". It was composed mostly of Belarusian volunteers, as well as veterans of the Green Army and former Red Army soldiers, and received the status of an allied army. Because of the composition of his troops, Stanisław Bułak-Bałachowicz is sometimes referred to as a Belarusian.\n\nFormally independent, the division was one of the most successful units fighting in the ranks of the Polish Army during the Polish-Bolshevik War. The unit entered combat in late June 1920 in the area of Polesie Marshes. On 30 June Bułak-Bałachowicz once again broke through the enemy lines and captured the village of Sławeczno in today's Belarus, where the tabors of the Soviet 2nd Rifle Brigade were stationed. The enemy unit was caught by surprise and suffered heavy losses. On 3 July the enemy unit was completely surrounded in the village of Wieledniki and was annihilated. After that action, the Operational Group was withdrawn to the main lines of the Polish 3rd Army and after 10 July it defended the line of the Styr river against Red Army actions.\n\nOn 23 July, during the Bolshevik offensive towards central Poland, general Bałachowicz's group started an organised retreat as a rear guard of the Polish 3rd Army. During that operation, Bułak-Bałachowicz abandoned the withdrawing Polish troops and stayed with his forces for several days behind the enemy lines only to break through to the Polish forces shortly afterwards. During the Battle of Warsaw overnight of 14 August Bałachowicz's forces were ordered to start a counter-attack towards the town of Włodawa, one of the centres of concentration of the advancing Russian forces. On 17 August the area was secured and the Bułak-Bałachowicz's forces defended it successfully until 7 September against numerically superior enemy forces. Stanisław Bułak-Bałachowicz organised an active defence and managed to disrupt the concentration of all enemy attacks before they could be started. For instance on 30 August and 2 September his forces, supported by the Polish 7th Infantry Division, managed to attack the Soviet 58th Rifle Division from the rear, before it could attack the town of Włodawa.\n\nOn 15 September the unit was yet again advancing in pursuit of the withdrawing Red Army. That day the unit captured Kamień Koszyrski, where it took more than 1000 prisoners of war and the matériel depot of an entire division. During the Battle of the Niemen River Bałachowicz's unit prevented the enemy from forming a defensive line in Polesie. Overnight of 21 September his unit outflanked and then destroyed completely the Bolshevik 88th Rifle Regiment near the town of Lubieszów. Perhaps the most notable victory of the Bułak-Bałachowicz's Group took place on 26 September, when his forces took Pinsk in the rear. The city was the most important rail road junction in the area and was planned as the last stand of the Bolshevik forces still fighting to the west of that city. According to a book published in 1943, after Bułak-Bałachowicz's troops entered Pinsk, they may have committed a series of pogroms on the Jewish population. There were hundreds of victims of rape and murder in Pinsk and in the vicinity around that time, although none specifically linked to Bułak-Bałachowicz.\n\nIn October Stanisław Bułak-Bałachowicz was stationed with his forces in Pinsk, where they received supplies and a large amount of former Red Army soldiers who were taken prisoner of war after the Battle of Warsaw and volunteered for the service in anti-Bolshevik units. The unit was to re-enter combat in November, but on 12 October a cease fire was signed. On the insistence of both the Entente and Bolshevik Russia, the allied units were to leave Poland before 2 November. General Bułak-Bałachowicz was given the choice of either being interned in Poland with his units and then sent home or to continue the fight against the Reds on his own. He chose the latter option, just like most other White Russian and Ukrainian units fighting on the Polish side in the Polish-Bolshevik War.\n\nOn 2 November 1920, his units were renamed the Russian People's Volunteer Army and transferred to the areas that were to be abandoned by the Polish Army and become a no-man's-land until the final Russo-Polish peace treaty was signed. Three days later his forces crossed into Russian-held Belarus and started an offensive towards Homel. General Bułak-Bałachowicz was hoping for a Belarusian all-national uprising against Bolshevik Russia. His forces initially achieved a limited success and captured Homel and Rechytsa.\n\nOn 10 November 1920 Bułak-Bałachowicz entered Mozyr. There, two days later, he again proclaimed the independence of the Belarusian Democratic Republic with himself as the head of state. Bułak-Bałachowicz declared the exiled Rada BNR as dismissed and started forming a new Belarusian National Army. On 16 November 1920 he also created the Belarusian provisional government. However, the planned uprising gained little support in the Belarusian nation tired by six years of constant war and the Red Army finally gained an upper hand. On 18 November 1920 Bałachowicz abandoned Mozyr and started a withdrawal towards the Polish frontier. The Belarusian troops, hardened by the years spent behind the enemy lines, fought their way to Poland and managed to inflict heavy casualties on the advancing Russians while suffering negligible losses, but were too weak to turn the tide of war.\n\nRepresentatives of Balachowicz participated in the organization and conduction of the Slutsk Defence Action that started in late November around Slutsk.\n\nOn 28 November the last organised unit under his command crossed the Polish border and was subsequently interned. The Russian government demanded that General Bułak-Bałachowicz be handed over to them and tried for high treason. The Riga Peace Conference was even halted by these demands for several days, but eventually these claims were refuted by the Polish government which argued that Bułak-Bałachowicz was a Polish citizen since 1918.\n\nShortly after the Riga Peace Treaty had been signed, Bułak-Bałachowicz and his men were set free from the internment camps. The general retired from the army and settled in Warsaw. There he became an active member of various veteran societies. Among other functions, he held the post of the head of Society of Former Fighters of the National Uprisings. He was also a political essayist and writer of two books on the possibilities of a future war with Germany: \"Wojna będzie czy nie będzie\" (\"Will there be war or will there be not\"; 1931) and \"Precz z Hitlerem czy niech żyje Hitler\" (\"Down with Hitler or long live Hitler?\", 1933). Between 1936 and 1939 he served as an advisor to Franco's nationalists in the Spanish Civil War.\n\nDuring the Polish Defensive War of 1939, Stanisław Bułak-Bałachowicz volunteered for the Polish army. He created a Volunteer Group that fought in the defence of Warsaw. The unit consisted of approximately 1750 ill-equipped infantrymen and 250 cavalrymen. It was used on the southern flank of the Polish forces defending the Polish capital and adopted the tactics its commander knew perfectly well: fast attacks on the rear of the enemy forces. On 12 September 1939, the unit entered combat for the first time. It took the German defenders by surprise and retook the southernmost borough of Służew and the Służewiec horse track. Soon afterwards the cavalry organised a disrupting attack on the German infantry stationed in Natolin. On 23 September the unit was transferred to northern Warsaw, where it was to organise an assault on the German positions in the Bielany forest. The assault had been prepared, but was thwarted by the cease-fire signed on 27 September.\n\nAfter the capitulation of Warsaw, general Bułak-Bałachowicz (formally retired) evaded being captured by the Germans and returned to civilian life. At the same time he was the main organiser of (\"Military Confederation\"), one of the first underground resistance groups in German and Soviet-occupied Poland. In early 1940 the Gestapo found out his whereabouts. He was surrounded with a group of young conspirators in a house in Warsaw's borough of Saska Kępa and arrested by the Germans. According to the most common version, Bułak-Bałachowicz, was shot by Gestapo agents on 10 May 1940, in the Warsaw centre, on the intersection between Francuska and Trzeciego Maja streets.\n\nFor his resistance against Bolshevik forces that killed local Belarusian peasantry, members of Belarusian minority in Poland regard him as their national hero. Historians have often seen him to be an adventurer.\n\nBałachowicz is honoured by a number of influential historians and politicians in Belarus and among the Belarusian diaspora as a fighter for the country's independence. Members of the Belarusian diaspora in Poland have been organizing bike rallies to commemorate Balachowicz.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "62694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62694", "title": "Stromatolite", "text": "Stromatolite\n\nStromatolites () or stromatoliths (from Greek \"strōma\" \"layer, stratum\" ( \"strōmatos\"), and \"lithos\" \"rock\") are layered mounds, columns, and sheet-like sedimentary rocks that were originally formed by the growth of layer upon layer of cyanobacteria, a single-celled photosynthesizing microbe. Fossilized stromatolites provide records of ancient life on Earth. Lichen stromatolites are a proposed mechanism of formation of some kinds of layered rock structure that are formed above water, where rock meets air, by repeated colonization of the rock by endolithic lichens.\n\nStromatolites are layered bio-chemical accretionary structures formed in shallow water by the trapping, binding and cementation of sedimentary grains by biofilms (microbial mats) of microorganisms, especially cyanobacteria. They exhibit a variety of forms and structures, or morphologies, including conical, stratiform, branching, domal, and columnar types. Stromatolites occur widely in the fossil record of the Precambrian, but are rare today. Very few ancient stromatolites contain fossilized microbes. While features of some stromatolites are suggestive of biological activity, others possess features that are more consistent with abiotic (non-biological) precipitation. Finding reliable ways to distinguish between biologically formed and abiotic stromatolites is an active area of research in geology.\n\nTime lapse photography of modern microbial mat formation in a laboratory setting gives some revealing clues to the behavior of cyanobacteria in stromatolites. Biddanda \"et al.\" (2015) found that cyanobacteria exposed to localized beams of light moved towards the light, or expressed phototaxis, and increased their photosynthetic yield, which is necessary for survival. In a novel experiment, the scientists projected a school logo onto a petri dish containing the organisms, which accreted beneath the lighted region, forming the logo in bacteria. The authors speculate that such motility allows the cyanobacteria to seek light sources to support the colony. In both light and dark conditions, the cyanobacteria form clumps that then expand outwards, with individual members remaining connected to the colony via long tendrils. This may be a protective mechanism that affords evolutionary benefit to the colony in harsh environments where mechanical forces act to tear apart the microbial mats. Thus these sometimes elaborate structures, constructed by microscopic organisms working somewhat in unison, are a means of providing shelter and protection from a harsh environment.\n\nSome Archean rock formations show macroscopic similarity to modern microbial structures, leading to the inference that these structures represent evidence of ancient life, namely stromatolites. However, others regard these patterns as being due to natural material deposition or some other abiogenic mechanism. Scientists have argued for a biological origin of stromatolites due to the presence of organic globule clusters within the thin layers of the stromatolites, of aragonite nanocrystals (both features of current stromatolites), and because of the persistence of an inferred biological signal through changing environmental circumstances.\n\nStromatolites are a major constituent of the fossil record of the first forms of life on earth. They peaked about 1.25 billion years ago and subsequently declined in abundance and diversity, so that by the start of the Cambrian they had fallen to 20% of their peak. The most widely supported explanation is that stromatolite builders fell victim to grazing creatures (the Cambrian substrate revolution); this theory implies that sufficiently complex organisms were common over 1 billion years ago. Another hypothesis is that protozoans like the foraminifera were responsible for the decline.\n\nProterozoic stromatolite microfossils (preserved by permineralization in silica) include cyanobacteria and possibly some forms of the eukaryote chlorophytes (that is, green algae). One genus of stromatolite very common in the geologic record is \"Collenia\".\n\nThe connection between grazer and stromatolite abundance is well documented in the younger Ordovician evolutionary radiation; stromatolite abundance also increased after the end-Ordovician and end-Permian extinctions decimated marine animals, falling back to earlier levels as marine animals recovered. Fluctuations in metazoan population and diversity may not have been the only factor in the reduction in stromatolite abundance. Factors such as the chemistry of the environment may have been responsible for changes.\n\nWhile prokaryotic cyanobacteria reproduce asexually through cell division, they were instrumental in priming the environment for the evolutionary development of more complex eukaryotic organisms. Cyanobacteria (as well as extremophile Gammaproteobacteria) are thought to be largely responsible for increasing the amount of oxygen in the primeval earth's atmosphere through their continuing photosynthesis (see Great Oxygenation Event). Cyanobacteria use water, carbon dioxide, and sunlight to create their food. A layer of mucus often forms over mats of cyanobacterial cells. In modern microbial mats, debris from the surrounding habitat can become trapped within the mucus, which can be cemented together by the calcium carbonate to grow thin laminations of limestone. These laminations can accrete over time, resulting in the banded pattern common to stromatolites. The domal morphology of biological stromatolites is the result of the vertical growth necessary for the continued infiltration of sunlight to the organisms for photosynthesis. Layered spherical growth structures termed oncolites are similar to stromatolites and are also known from the fossil record. Thrombolites are poorly laminated or non-laminated clotted structures formed by cyanobacteria, common in the fossil record and in modern sediments.\n\nThe Zebra River Canyon area of the Kubis platform in the deeply dissected Zaris Mountains of south western Namibia provides an extremely well exposed example of the thrombolite-stromatolite-metazoan reefs that developed during the Proterozoic period, the stromatolites here being better developed in updip locations under conditions of higher current velocities and greater sediment influx.\n\nModern stromatolites are mostly found in hypersaline lakes and marine lagoons where extreme conditions due to high saline levels prevent animal grazing. One such location is Hamelin Pool Marine Nature Reserve, Shark Bay in Western Australia where excellent specimens are observed today, Pampa del Tamarugal National Reserve in Chile and another is Lagoa Salgada (\"Salty Lake\"), in the state of Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil, where modern stromatolites can be observed as bioherm (domal type) and beds. Inland stromatolites can also be found in saline waters in Cuatro Ciénegas, a unique ecosystem in the Mexican desert, and in Lake Alchichica, a maar lake in Mexico's Oriental Basin. The only open marine environment where modern stromatolites are known to prosper is the Exuma Cays in the Bahamas.\n\nIn 2010, a fifth type of Chlorophyll, namely Chlorophyll f was discovered by Dr. Min Chen from stromatolites in Shark Bay.\n\nLaguna Bacalar in Mexico's southern Yucatán Peninsula in the state of Quintana Roo, has an extensive formation of living giant (that is, stromatolites or thrombolites). The microbialite bed is over long with a vertical rise of several meters in some areas. These may be the largest sized living freshwater microbialites, or any organism, on Earth.\n\nA little farther to the south, a 1.5 km stretch of reef-forming stromatolites (primarily of the genus \"Scytonema\") occurs in Chetumal Bay in Belize, just south of the mouth of the Rio Hondo and the Mexican border.\n\nFreshwater stromatolites are found in Lake Salda in southern Turkey. The waters are rich in magnesium and the stromatolite structures are made of hydromagnesite.\n\nAnother pair of instances of freshwater stromatolites are at Pavilion and Kelly Lakes in British Columbia, Canada. Pavilion Lake has the largest known freshwater stromatolites and has been researched by NASA as part of xenobiology research. NASA, the Canadian Space Agency and numerous universities from around the world are collaborating on a project centered on studying microbialite life in the lakes. Called the \"Pavilion Lake Research Project\" (PLRP) its aim is to study what conditions on the lakes' bottoms are most likely to harbor life and develop a better hypothesis on how environmental factors affect microbialite life. The end goal of the project is to better understand what conditions would be more likely to harbor life on other planets. There is a citizen science project online called \"MAPPER\" where anyone can help sort through thousands of photos of the lake bottoms and tag microbialites, algae and other lake bed features.\n\nMicrobialites have been discovered in an open pit pond at an abandoned asbestos mine near Clinton Creek, Yukon,\nCanada. These microbialites are extremely young and presumably began forming soon after the mine closed in 1978. The combination of a low sedimentation rate, high calcification rate, and low microbial growth rate appears to result in the formation of these microbialites. Microbialites at an historic mine site demonstrates that an anthropogenically constructed environment can foster microbial carbonate formation. This has implications for creating artificial environments for building modern microbialites including stromatolites.\nA very rare type of non-lake dwelling stromatolite lives in the Nettle Cave at Jenolan Caves, NSW, Australia. The cyanobacteria live on the surface of the limestone, and are sustained by the calcium rich dripping water, which allows them to grow toward the two open ends of the cave which provide light.\n\nStromatolites composed of calcite have been found in both the Blue Lake in the dormant volcano, Mount Gambier and at least eight cenote lakes including the Little Blue Lake in the Lower South-East of South Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3403430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3403430", "title": "Technology forecasting", "text": "Technology forecasting\n\nTechnology forecasting attempts to predict the future characteristics of useful technological machines, procedures or techniques.\n\nPrimarily, a technological forecast deals with the characteristics of technology, such as levels of technical performance, like speed of a military aircraft, the power in watts of a particular future engine, the accuracy or precision of a measuring instrument, the number of transistors in a chip in the year 2015, etc. The forecast does not have to state how these characteristics will be achieved.\n\nSecondly, technological forecasting usually deals with only useful machines, procedures or techniques. This is to exclude from the domain of technological forecasting those commodities, services or techniques intended for luxury or amusement.\n\nThe whole purpose of the recitation of alternatives is to show that there really is no alternative to forecasting. If a decision maker has several alternatives open to him or her, s/he will choose among them on the basis of which provides him/her with the most desirable outcome. Thus his/her decision is inevitably based on a forecast. His/her only choice is whether the forecast is obtained by rational and explicit methods, or by intuitive means.\n\nThe virtues of the use of rational methods are as follows:\n\nThe virtue of the use of explicit methods is that they can be reviewed by others, and can be checked for consistency. Furthermore, the forecast can be reviewed at any subsequent time.\nTechnology forecasting is not imagination.\n\nCommonly adopted methods of technology forecasting include the Delphi method, forecast by analogy, growth curves and extrapolation. Normative methods of technology forecasting — like the relevance trees, morphological models, and mission flow diagrams — are also commonly used.\n\nStudies of past forecasts have shown that one of the most frequent reasons why a forecast goes wrong is that the forecaster ignores related fields.\n\nA given technical approach may fail to achieve the level of capability forecast for it, because it is superseded by another technical approach which the forecaster ignored.\n\nAnother problem is that of inconsistency between forecasts. Because of these problems, it is often necessary to combine forecasts of different technologies. Therefore rather than to try to select the one method which is most appropriate, it may be better to try to combine the forecasts obtained by different methods.\n\nIf this is done, the strengths of one method may help compensate for the weaknesses of another.\n\nThe primary reason for combining forecasts of the same technology is to attempt to offset the weaknesses of one forecasting method with the strengths of another.\nIn addition, the use of more than one forecasting method often gives the forecaster more insight into the processes at work which are responsible for the growth of the technology being forecast.\n\nA frequently used combination is that of growth curves and a trend curve for some technology.\nHere we see a succession of growth curves, each describing the level of functional capability achieved by a specific technical approach.\n\nAn overall trend curve is also shown, fitted to those items of historical data which represent the currently superior approach.\n\nThe use of growth curves and a trend curve in combination allows the forecaster to draw some conclusions about the future growth of a technology which might not be possible, were either method used alone.\n\nWith growth curves alone, the forecaster could not say anything about the time at which a given technical approach is likely to be supplanted by a successor approach.\n\nWith the trend curve alone, the forecaster could not say anything about the ability of a specific technical approach to meet the projected trend, or about the need to look for a successor approach.\nThus the need for combining forecasts.\n\nAnother frequently used combination of forecasts is that of the trend curve and one or more analogies.\n\nWe customarily consider the scatter of data points about a trend curve to be due to random influences which we can neither control nor even measure. However, consistent deviations may represent something other than just random influences.\n\nWhere such consistent deviations are identified, we may have an opportunity to apply an analogy. Typical events which bring about deviations from a trend are wars and depressions. Thus the purpose of combining analogies with a trend forecast is to predict deviations from the trend deviations which are associated with or caused by external events or influences.\n\nAs with other uses of analogy, it is important to determine the extent to which the analogy between the event used as the basis for the forecast, and the historical model event, satisfies the criteria for a valid analogy.\n\nCombining forecasts of different technologies may be even more important than combining the forecasts of the same technology.\n\nOne reason for this is the fact that technologies may interact or be interrelated in some fashion.\nAnother reason for this is that of consistency in an overall picture or scenario. One of the simplest examples of interacting trends is the projection to absurdity, i.e. simply projecting the given data indefinitely without getting any specific result. For instance, if one simply projects recent rates of growth of world population, one arrives at some fantastic conclusions about the density of population in a particular place by various dates in the next millennium.\n\nSome other trends which can confidently be expected to not continue indefinitely are:\n\nAnother instance of interacting trends was in the case of the number of scientists in the U.S. growing faster than the overall population. Since the 1940s through the 1960s, science as an activity in the United States grew exponentially. The number of dollars spent on R&D was growing faster than the GNP (in the 1960s).\n\nIf projected indefinitely, these two curves would give the result that eventually every person in the U.S. would be working as a scientist and the entire GNP would be devoted to R&D alone, which are however absurd conclusions. Thus it is clear that the scientific discipline of technology forecasting is not mere trend extrapolation but also involves combining forecasts.\n\nAlmost all modern manufacturing firms utilize the services of a technological forecaster. Nevertheless, there are a number of alternatives to the rational and explicit forecasting of technology, such as 'no forecast', 'anything can happen' (i.e. relying on pure chance), 'window-blind forecasting', 'genius forecasting' and boasting of a 'glorious past' (i.e. adopting the same old techniques).\n\nThus technological forecasting is not mere astrology or palmistry, but a scientific and well defined procedure adopted by a technological forecaster or a consultancy for the forecasting of a particular technology. Even though technological forecasting is a scientific discipline, some experts are of the view that \"the only certainty of a particular forecast is that it is wrong to some degree.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30200201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30200201", "title": "Teresina Vasco Monument", "text": "Teresina Vasco Monument\n\nThe Teresina Vasco Monument is a public artwork by Andrea Sichi, located at Glenwood Cemetery in Washington, D.C., United States. \"Teresina Vasco Monument\" was surveyed as part of the Smithsonian Save Outdoor Sculpture! survey in 1994. It serves as the final resting place for the young Teresina Vasco.\n\nThis sculpture shows a full-size portrait of a girl (Teresina Vasco) sitting in a small rocking chair. Her feet and the chair are placed on a pile of flowers, which sits on a square base at the head of a tombstone. She looks off to the right and her proper left arm rests on the arm of the chair. She wears a dress with a lace collar and her hair is curly and tied back in bows.\n\nThe bottom front of the tombstone is inscribed:\n\nThe artist Andrea Sichi worked in the Washington DC area for many years after immigrating to the United States in 1904.\n\nThis sculpture was surveyed in 1994 for its condition and it was described that treatment is needed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7898552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7898552", "title": "Test Tube Aliens", "text": "Test Tube Aliens\n\nTest Tube Aliens are a series of toys that were invented by JKID Ltd and released by 4Kidz, Inc., a toy and juvenile products company based in Stamford, Connecticut.\n\nThere are 6 aliens available - three good, three bad. The three good aliens have escaped their dying home world of Nratuatuko in search of a new home. Using the technology of their ancestors, they were genetically reverted to a pre-birth state. They retain only their intelligence, their accumulated strength sacrificed for the greater good. They travelled across the universe in search of a sympathetic lifeform to restore them to adulthood and their former strength.\n\nThe evil aliens are responsible for the destruction of Naratuko, and have pursued the three good aliens across the universe, determined not to let their quarry escape for good.\n\nHowever, in 2011 it is revealed that all the aliens are evil, even the 'good' aliens are evil. The true good aliens were the Test Tube Aliens X series aliens. The aliens wanted to be marketed in test tubes so that after they appear to be dead, they would be thrown into a bin, so that they could take over the rivers and seas. This was followed by the release of Test Tube Aliens: Pure Evil, with 6 Pure Evil aliens.\n\nThe package contains a test tube, a clear plastic cylinder of around 18 centimetres in height and 6 centimetres in diameter. The alien is contained within a white cocoon, or 'chrysalis', inside the cylinder. By adding water the cocoon erodes, revealing an infant alien. The alien's heart (represented by a series of coloured flashes from the head) begins to beat, and the alien is 'alive'.\n\nThe alien must be fed for the first few days of its existence with 'Sloog', a white powder which is combined with water and poured into the test tube. After the feeding is complete, the alien will survive on plain tap water.\n\nIn order to remain 'healthy', the alien must be kept in twelve hours of daylight, and twelve hours of darkness each day. If left too long in the light, the alien's heartbeat will speed up. If left too long in darkness, the alien's heartbeat will become staggered and sporadic.\n\nSimilarly, the alien will detect if the water level is too high or low, and it will flash green (too high, drowning) or orange (too low, thirsty) to indicate this.\n\nEventually, if the alien is not treated right, it will die and the toy becomes useless. Some have been recorded to survive seven to nine months in total.\n\nThe alien will also interact with the Test Tube Aliens website, where users can induce the alien into a coma or panic mode. The alien's age and health can also be checked. Unfortunately the website is currently down rendering the toy useless.\n\nThe alien body contains Polyacrylamide, a polymer that soaks up water and causes the body to expand to up to eight times its original size. The \"sloog\" contains a weak acid that slows the expansion of the polymer so that the growth appears to occur over several days. The alien can sense the presence of the acid by measuring the solution's conductivity via electrodes on the tip of its antenna and on the top of its head. The electrodes also act to sense water level—the water level must be between the antenna electrode and the head electrodes for the alien to be `healthy'.\n\nThe website interaction works via a light detector in the alien's head responding to flashes from the 'web portal' on the Test Tube Aliens website. The light detector also lets the alien know how many hours it has been exposed to light and dark. As of January 2013, the Test Tube Alien website was offline.\n\n"}
{"id": "17355517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17355517", "title": "Total anterior circulation infarct", "text": "Total anterior circulation infarct\n\nA Total Anterior Circulation Infarct (TACI) is a type of cerebral infarction affecting the entire anterior circulation supplying one side of the brain.\n\nTotal Anterior Circulation Stroke Syndrome (TACS) refers to the symptoms of a patient who clinically appears to have suffered from a total anterior circulation infarct, but who has not yet had any diagnostic imaging (e.g. CT Scan) to confirm the diagnosis.\n\nIt is diagnosed when it causes all 3 of the following symptoms:\n\nFor more information, see stroke.\n"}
{"id": "1507812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1507812", "title": "Ugolino della Gherardesca", "text": "Ugolino della Gherardesca\n\nCount Ugolino della Gherardesca (March 1289), count of Donoratico, was an Italian nobleman, politician and naval commander. He was frequently accused of treason and features prominently in Dante's \"Divine Comedy\".\n\nIn the 13th century, Italy was beset by the strife of two parties, the Ghibellines and the Guelphs. While the conflict was local and personal in origin, the parties had come to be associated with the two universal powers: the Ghibellines sided with the Holy Roman Emperor and his rule of Italy, while the Guelphs sided with the Pope, who supported self-governing city-states.\n\nPisa was controlled by the Ghibellines, while most of the surrounding cities were controlled by the Guelphs, most notably Pisa's trading rivals Genoa and Florence. Under the circumstances, Pisa adopted the \"strong and vigilant government\" of a podestà \"armed with almost despotic power\"\n\nUgolino was born in Pisa into the della Gherardesca family, a noble family of Germanic origins whose alliance with the Hohenstaufen Emperors had brought to prominence in Tuscany and made them the leaders of the Ghibellines in Pisa.\n\nBetween 1256 and 1258 he participated in the war against the filo-genoese giudicato of Cagliari, in Sardinia. Ugolino then obtained the south-western portion of the former giudical territory, with its rich silver mines, where he founded the important city of \"Villa di Chiesa\", today Iglesias.\nAs head of his family, the Ghibelline party and podestà of Pisa, Ugolino took action to preserve his power in the face of the political hostility of Pisa's neighbours. In 1271, through a marriage of his sister with Giovanni Visconti, judge of Gallura, he allied himself with the Visconti, the leaders of the Guelphs in Pisa. In doing so, he aroused the suspicions of his fellow Ghibellines.\n\nThe subsequent disorders in the city in 1274 led to the arrest of both Ugolino and Giovanni, who were accused of plotting to undermine Pisa's government and, with the support from Tuscany's Guelphs, share power among themselves. Ugolino was imprisoned and Giovanni banished from Pisa. Giovanni Visconti died soon afterwards, and Ugolino, no longer regarded as a threat, was set free and banished. In exile, Ugolino immediately began to intrigue with the Guelph cities of Florence and Lucca. With the help of Charles I of Anjou, he attacked his native city and forced it to make peace on humiliating terms, pardoning him and all the other Guelph exiles. After his return, Ugolino at first remained aloof from politics but quietly worked to reassert his influence.\n\nIn 1284, war broke out between Pisa and Genoa and both Ugolino and Andreotto Saracini were appointed as captains of two divisions of fleets by Alberto Morosini, the Podestà of Pisa. The two fleets met in August in the Battle of Meloria. The Genoese fought valiantly and destroyed seven Pisan galleys and captured twenty-eight. Among the eleven thousand captives was the Podestà. Ugolino and his division set the sign of surrender and withdrew, deciding the battle in favour of Genoa. This flight was later interpreted as treachery but not by any writer earlier than the 16th century.\n\nWhen Florence and Lucca took advantage of the naval defeat to attack Pisa, Ugolino was appointed podestà for a year and succeeded in pacifying them by ceding certain castles. When Genoa suggest peace on similar terms, Ugolino was less eager to accept, for the return of the Pisan prisoners, including most of the leading Ghibellines, would have diminished his power.\n\nUgolino, now appointed \"capitano del popolo\" for ten years, was now the most influential man in Pisa but was forced to share his power with his nephew Nino Visconti, son of Giovanni. The duumvirate did not last, as Ugolino and Nino soon quarrelled. In 1287, Nino, striving to become Podestà, entered into negotiations with Ruggieri degli Ubaldini, Archbishop of Pisa, and the Ghibellines. Ugolino reacted by driving Nino and several Ghibelline families out of the city, destroying their palaces and occupying the town hall, where he had himself proclaimed lord of the city.\n\nIn April of that year, Ugolino again refused to make peace with Genoa, even though the enemy was willing to be content itself with financial reparations. Ugolino still feared the return of the captured Pisans, who saw Ugolino as the cause for their prolonged captivity and had sworn to get their revenge for this.\n\nIn 1288, Pisa was hit by a dramatic increase in prices, resulting in food shortage and riots among the bitter populace. During one of these riots, Ugolino killed a nephew of the Archbishop, turning the latter against him. On 1 July 1288, after leaving a council-meeting discussing peace with Genoa, Ugolino and his followers were attacked by a band of armed Ghibellines. Ugolino withdrew into the town hall and repelled all attacks. The Archbishop, accusing Ugolino of treachery, aroused the citizens. When the town hall was set on fire, Ugolino surrendered. While his illegitimate son was killed, Ugolino himself – together with his sons Gaddo and Uguccione and his grandsons Nino (surnamed \"the Brigand\") and Anselmuccio – were detained in the Muda, a tower belonging to the Gualandi family. In March 1289, on orders of the Archbishop, who had proclaimed himself podestà, the keys were thrown into the Arno river and the prisoners left to starve.\n\nTheir corpses were buried in the cloister of Saint Francis Church and remained there until 1902, when they were exhumed and transferred to the Gherardesca family chapel.\n\nThe historical details of the episode are still involved in some obscurity, and although mentioned by Villani and other writers, it owes its fame entirely to Dante's \"Divine Comedy\". Dante's account has been paraphrased by Chaucer in the Monk's Tale of the \"Canterbury Tales\", as well as by Shelley. Irish poet Seamus Heaney also recounts the legend in his poem \"Ugolino\" found in his 1979 book \"Field Work\". Giovanni Pascoli writes of Ugolino in 'Conte Ugolino', a poem from his Primi Poemetti.\n\nDante placed Ugolino and Ruggieri in the ice of the second ring (Antenora) of the lowest circle of the \"Inferno\", which is reserved for betrayers of kin, country, guests, and benefactors.\n\nUgolino's punishment involves his being entrapped in ice up to his neck in the same hole with his betrayer, Archbishop Ruggieri, who left him to starve to death. Ugolino is constantly gnawing at Ruggieri's skull. As Dante describes it, \n\nUgolino's gnawing of Ruggieri's head has been interpreted as meaning that Ugolino's hatred for his enemy is so strong that he is compelled to \"devour even what has no substance.\" Ugolino, though punished for his betrayal of his people, is allowed some closure for the betrayal that he himself was forced to suffer under Ruggieri, when he is allowed to act as Ruggieri's torturer for eternity. According to Frances Yates, both are \"suffering the torments of the damned in the traitors' hell; but Ugolino is given the right to oppress ... Archbishop Ruggieri with a ghastly eternal punishment which fits his crime.\"\n\nAccording to Dante, the prisoners were slowly starved to death and before dying Ugolino's children begged him to eat their bodies.\n\nUgolino's statement that hunger proved stronger than grief has been interpreted in two ways, either that Ugolino devoured his offspring's corpses after being driven mad with hunger, or that starvation killed him after he had failed to die of grief. The first and more ghastly of these interpretations has proved the more popular and resonant. For this reason Ugolino is known as the \"Cannibal Count\" and is often depicted gnawing at his own fingers (\"eating of his own flesh\") in consternation, as in the sculpture \"The Gates of Hell \"by Auguste Rodin, in \"Ugolino and his Sons\" by Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux and in other artwork, though this may also simply refer to Ugolino's own statement in the poem that he gnawed his fingers in grief.\n\nUgolino is referred to in José Saramago's novel \"The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis\", in which the protagonist opines that suitable name for a foxhound bitch that has been found eating its own young from two different litters would be Ugolina, mentioning the \"History of the Guelphs and Ghibellines\" and the \"Divine Comedy\" as references to Ugolino della Gherardesca's having eaten his children and grandchildren.\n\nThe case of Ugolino and Ruggiero is behind the story of the short story \"The Wait\" (La espera) of Jorge Luis Borges in the collection named The Aleph (El Aleph) (1949).\n\nIn 2002, paleoanthropologist Francesco Mallegni conducted DNA testing on the recently excavated bodies of Ugolino and his children. His analysis agrees with the remains being a father, his sons and his grandsons. Additional comparison to DNA from modern day members of the Gherardesca family leave Mallegni about 98 percent sure that he has identified the remains correctly. However, the forensic analysis discredits the allegation of cannibalism. Analysis of the rib bones of the Ugolino skeleton reveals traces of magnesium, but no zinc, implying he had consumed no meat in the months before his death. Ugolino also had few remaining teeth and is believed to have been in his 70s when he was imprisoned, making it further unlikely that he could have outlived and eaten his descendants in captivity. Additionally, Mallegni notes that the putative Ugolino skull was damaged; perhaps he did not ultimately die of starvation, although malnourishment is evident.\n\nIn 2008, Paola Benigni, superintendent to the Archival Heritage of Tuscany, disputed Mallegni's findings in an article, claiming that the documents assigning the burial to Ugolino and his descendants were Fascist-era forgeries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39334125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39334125", "title": "Ättestupa", "text": "Ättestupa\n\nÄttestupa () is the mythical practice of senicide during Nordic prehistoric times: elderly people are said to have thrown themselves, or were thrown, to their deaths. According to legend, this was done when the old people were unable to support themselves or assist in a household. Even though there are many places in the Nordic countries that are said to have been used as ättestupa, today it is not thought that the practice actually existed, but that the notion of ättestupa is a persistent myth.\n\nSuicide precipices are mentioned in several sources from antiquity, e.g. Procopius in his description of the Heruli from the 6th century CE. Solinus wrote about the happy hyperboreans at the North Pole where it is daylight for half a year between the vernal equinox to the autumnal equinox, and described the climate as being so healthy that the people there didn't die but threw themselves from a precipice into the sea.\n\nIn Sweden the term \"ättestupa\" was rediscovered in the 17th century when the old Icelandic saga \"Gautreks saga\", in which \"Ætternisstapi\" (\"Släktklippan\") is mentioned, was translated to Swedish and published. The saga is the only known occurrence of the word \"ætternisstapi\" making it a hapax legomenon. The Swedish linguist Adolf Noreen started questioning the myth at the end of the 19th century and it is now generally accepted among researchers that the practice of suicide precipices never took place.\nThe term \"ättestupa\" has been used often in modern times, in political contexts, to underline how bad an insufficiently funded social security program can be, especially for retirees. In the 1960s, the Swedish comedy radio program \"Mosebacke Monarki\" satirically introduced ättestupa, abbreviated ÄTP, as an alternative to ATP, a state-provided pension.\n\nSeveral places in the Nordic countries are alleged to be former suicide precipices:\n\n\n\n"}
