{"id": "41236831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41236831", "title": "2013 Qingdao oil pipeline explosion", "text": "2013 Qingdao oil pipeline explosion\n\nThe 2013 Qingdao oil pipeline explosion occurred on 22 November 2013, when an oil pipeline in Chinese city of Qingdao, Shandong Province, China leaked and caught fire and exploded. The blast killed at least 62 people. At least 9 people were detained by the police.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3540994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3540994", "title": "Alcator C-Mod", "text": "Alcator C-Mod\n\nAlcator C-Mod was a tokamak (a type of magnetically confined fusion device) that operated between 1991 and 2016 at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Plasma Science and Fusion Center (PSFC). Notable for its high toroidal magnetic field (of up to 8 Tesla), Alcator C-Mod holds the world record for volume averaged plasma pressure in a magnetically confined fusion device. Until its shutdown in 2016, it was one of the major fusion research facilities in the United States.\n\nAlcator C-Mod was the third of the Alcator (\"Alto Campo Toro\", High Field Torus) tokamak series, following Alcator A (1973–1979) and Alcator C (1978–1987). It was the largest fusion reactor operated by any university and was an integral part of the larger Plasma Science and Fusion Center.\n\nIn the late 1960s, magnetic-confinement fusion research at MIT was carried out on small-scale \"table-top\" experiments at the Research Laboratory for Electronics and the Francis Bitter Magnet Laboratory. At this time, the Soviet Union was developing a tokamak (though this was unknown in the United States), and Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory (PPPL) was developing the stellarator.\n\nBruno Coppi was working at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University and was interested in the basic plasma physics problem of plasma resistivity at high values of the streaming parameter, as well as the behavior of magnetically confined plasmas at very high field strengths (≥ 10 T). In 1968, Coppi attended the third IAEA International Conference on Plasma Physics and Controlled Nuclear Fusion Research at Novosibirsk. At this conference, Soviet scientists announced that they had achieved electron temperatures of over 1000 eV in a tokamak device (T-3).\n\nThis same year, Coppi was named a full professor in the MIT Department of Physics. He immediately collaborated with engineers at the Francis Bitter Magnet Laboratory, led by Bruce Montgomery, to design a compact (0.54 m major radius), high-field (10 T on axis) tokamak which he titled Alcator. The name is an acronym of the Italian \"Alto Campo Toro\", which means \"high-field torus\". With the later construction of Alcator C and then Alcator C-Mod, the original Alcator was retroactively renamed to Alcator A.\n\nAlcator was approved by the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) in 1970 and was first operated in 1972. Performance problems (poor-quality vacuum and arcing in toroidal field magnets) led to the rebuilding of the machine in 1973–1974 with a new vacuum vessel, with scientific results beginning in 1974. Alcator A was powered by the Bitter Laboratory's 32 MW DC motor-generators and was the first tokamak in the world to use an air-core transformer for ohmic current drive and heating.\n\nThe success of Alcator A led to the conceptual design, beginning in 1975, of a larger machine called Alcator B. However, the motor-generators used for Alcator A were not powerful enough to drive the new machine, necessitating the purchase and installation of new power supplies, a cost that the Energy Research and Development Administration (ERDA) was unwilling to fund. ERDA was, however, enthusiastic about building another Alcator, and a solution was found: a 225 MVA alternator was donated to MIT by Con Ed from a plant on the East River in New York City. The conceptual design was changed to accommodate the different power supply, and the project was renamed to Alcator C.\n\nAlcator C was officially authorized in 1976. This same year, the Plasma Fusion Center (now the Plasma Science and Fusion Center) was spun off from the Francis Bitter Magnet Laboratory. Construction of Alcator C proceeded rapidly and initial tests were conducted at the end of 1977. The alternator arrived from Con Ed in early 1978 (its transport was complicated by the blizzard of 1978) and was incorporated into the system in the summer of 1978. Scientific operations began in September of that year.\n\nAlcator C was a larger machine (\"R\" = 0.64 m) and operated at a higher field (\"B\" ≤ 13 T) than Alcator A. With the addition of 4 MW of lower hybrid heating in 1982, electron temperatures over 3.0 keV were reached. While Alcator C did not originally have the energy confinement time expected, due to the onset of ion temperature gradient turbulence at high values of formula_1, pellet fueling was used to produce peaked density profiles and values of the \"n\"τ product of over 0.8 × 10 s·m were achieved in 1983.\n\nSeveral ideas for new devices and upgrades at the PSFC were never funded. From 1978 to 1980, a design activity was carried out for Alcator D, a larger version of Alcator C that would allow for more heating power, and possibly even deuterium–tritium (D–T) operation. This design was never formally proposed to the Department of Energy (DOE), but continued to evolve under Coppi's direction, eventually becoming the Italian–Russian IGNITOR device planned for construction at TRINITY near Troitsk, Russia.\n\nIn 1982, another more ambitious device called Alcator DCT was conceived. This machine would have superconducting coils producing 7 T on axis. 4 MW of lower hybrid current drive would drive a steady-state plasma with 1.4 MA plasma current. As this design was similar to the French Tore Supra, a joint French–American workshop was held in Cadarache in 1983 to compare the two designs and exchange ideas. Alcator DCT was formally proposed to the DOE in late 1983 but was not funded.\n\nAt that time, the budget for magnetic fusion energy research in the United States had been increasing year-over-year, reaching a peak of $468.4 million in fiscal 1984. That year, the PSFC was notified that for a time, budgets would be falling, and DOE policy would be to only fund upgrades to existing devices, not new machines. Thus, design work was begun on a copper-coil machine which would reuse some of the power supplies from Alcator C, allowing the team to pitch it as a \"modification\" to Alcator C. The conceptual design was completed and Alcator C-Mod was formally proposed to DOE in late 1985. The project was approved and construction was authorized in 1986.\n\nAlcator C-Mod uses ion cyclotron range frequencies (ICRF) heating as its primary auxiliary heating source. The source frequency is 80 MHz and the standard minority heating scenarios are D(H) for 4.4–6.9 T and D(3He) for high field operation (7.3–8.0 T). A minority species (Hydrogen or He3) is indicated, and ICRH scenarios use a two-component plasma.\nAbsorption efficiency varies with the minority concentration. It is also possible to transition between minority and mode conversion (MC) heating by varying the minority species concentration. The relative H fraction formula_2 can be scanned from roughly 2–30% via gas puffing and measured using passive charge exchange. The relative He3 fraction formula_3 concentration can also be scanned from roughly 2–30% via gas puffing. Phase contrast imaging (PCI) can be used to measure the mode converted waves directly in the plasma.\n\nMinority heating is the most common scenario used at C-Mod. The ICRF heating system operates at 80 MHz in D(H) plasmas. This frequency corresponds to on-axis minority fundamental cyclotron resonance of protons at 5.3 T and absorbing fast waves by hydrogen minority species in a deuterium plasma. It can be very efficient (typical single pass absorption in C-Mod is 80–90% for minority concentrations of 5–10%). Minority heating at 80 MHz and 7.9 T in a deuterium majority plasma is achieved using the He3 minority resonance (on-axis), but single pass absorption with He3 minority ions in deuterium tends to be much lower than for protons (e.g. the minority heating scenario at 5.3–5.4 T).\n\nMode conversion of a fast magnetosonic wave to an ion cyclotron wave and ion Bernstein wave in the ion cyclotron range of frequencies (ICRF) can be used to heat electrons. Mode conversion heating is done at C-Mod using the ICRF in D(3He) plasmas.\n\nLower hybrid current drive (LHCD) (based on Lower hybrid oscillation) is used to supplement the current driven by the Ohmic transformer. The LHCD system is capable of delivering 1.0+ MW of microwave power (planned upgrade to 2 MW or more with addition of a second antenna in 2013) to the plasma at 4.6 GHz. Power is provided by 250 kW klystron microwave amplifiers manufactured by CPI, Inc. Non-inductive operation for up to 0.5 s pulses at 500 kA was achieved. Lower hybrid waves are launched preferentially in the direction opposite the plasma current (i.e. in the direction of electron travel) and deposit energy on electrons moving at approximately three times the thermal velocity via Landau damping. A major area of LHCD research has been in the area of current drive at the high densities (n > 10 m) required for a fusion power plant.\n\nAlcator C-Mod was slated to shut down in October 2013. However, the 2014 Congressional omnibus spending bill explicitly specified operation of the experiment, providing $22 million. The experimental operation was restarted in February 2014.\n\nFunding was once again extended for FY 2015, although the omnibus bill that provided the funding explicitly stated that no funding would be provided beyond FY 2016.\n\nIn 2016 Alcator C-Mod set a world record for plasma pressure in a magnetically confined fusion device, reaching 2.05 atmospheres – a 15 percent jump over the previous record of 1.77 atmospheres (also held by Alcator C-Mod). This record plasma had a temperature of 35 million degrees C, lasted for 2 seconds, and yielded 600 trillion fusion reactions. The run involved operation with a toroidal magnetic field of 5.7 tesla. It reached this milestone on its final day of operation.\n\nFollowing completion of operations at the end of September 2016, the facility has been placed into safe shutdown, with no additional experiments planned at this time. There is a wealth of data archived from the more than 20 years of operations, and the experimental and theoretical teams continue to analyze the results and publish them in the scientific literature.\n\nThe Alcator C-Mod plasma pressure record of 2.05 atmosphere will likely hold for some time. The only machine currently under construction that is predicted to break this record is the ITER tokamak in France. ITER is not expected to be fully operational until 2032, meaning that Alcator C-Mod's record will hold for 15 years unless another new device is constructed before then.\n\n"}
{"id": "52440989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52440989", "title": "Armenian energy crisis of 1990s", "text": "Armenian energy crisis of 1990s\n\nThe energy crisis in Armenia, popularly known as the dark and cold years (), refers to the energy crisis in Armenia during the 1990s, when the newly-independent Armenia's population lived in shortage of energy and basic consumer goods. Although it only lasted 3-4 years, it left a deep impact and impression. Local people have dubbed the years from 1992 to 1995 in different ways, such as \"hungry\", \"cold\", and \"bad\", but the most common title used is \"the dark.\"\n\nDuring this period, the population of Armenia and Artsakh had to make do with well water, candles, and cut wood for their needs. Many creative solutions came to exist to deal with the severe lack of electricity (1-2 hours a day) and lack of other basic resources.\n\nOn 20 February 1988, the Karabakh movement officially started as the Supreme Council of the Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast, which was ethnically Armenian, voted to request to transfer its jurisdiction from Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic to the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic. On 7 December of the same year, an earthquake of 6.9 magnitude occurred centered in the town of Spitak in Armenia, leaving 25,000 people dead and 500,000 people homeless. The Metsamor NPP, which was 100 km away from the epicenter of the earthquake, had had a safe shutdown, and had no damages according to the authorities and the IAEA. However, due to the panic that was raised afterwards and protests by the Green party of Armenia, it was officially decided to shut down both units of Metsamor, the only nuclear power plant of Armenia providing about 36% of the electricity needs of the country at the time. Unit 1 of ANPP was shut down in February 1989 and Unit 2 followed in March 1989.\n\nArmenian independence from the Soviet Union came on September 21, 1991, when the war over Nagorno-Karabakh was in full fledge. Armenia's energy supply during the Soviet Union was designed as an integrated part of the Trans-Caucasus electrical grid. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, and because of the lack of internal energy supply, Armenia faced a critical situation.\" Turkey and Azerbaijan closed their borders with Armenia, putting a fuel embargo on the country. Azerbaijan blocked a natural gas pipeline from Turkmenistan which was flowing through Azerbaijan, effectively cutting off about 90% of the natural gas supply of the country. During the clash, which lasted until May 1994, Azerbaijan blockaded roads, rail lines and energy supplies, leading to severe energy shortages in Armenia.\n\nAttempt was made to direct gas pipelines from Georgia to Armenia. However, Georgia's internal conflicts lent themselves to failure of the project on multiple occasions. From late January to mid-March 1993, Azerbaijani saboteurs blew up the gas pipeline that was crossing Marneuli, a region of Georgia populated with Azerbaijani, seven times.\n\nWith thermal and nuclear power stations unable to function, Armenia was left to rely almost entirely on its hydro power resources, at a great environmental expense to one of the country’s greatest natural resources, Lake Sevan. There was also the issue of providing daily subsistence to the public besides energy, as the whole country was short of bread. People had to wait in queues for a very long time, because there was no bread, and sometimes the queues could last for a few days. Many basic necessities such as sugar and eggs were also in scarcity.\nBy the winter of 1994-95, Yerevan residents had access to electricity for only 1-2 hours a day. Each district had its own set time for electricity availability.\n\nThe energy crisis ended when Metsamor Nuclear Power Plant Unit 2 was brought back online in October 1995, making it the only reactor in the world that was restarted after closing. The restart of the NPP increased the electricity available to the public to 10-12 hours a day. The electricity supply then increased to 24-hours a day, 7 days a week. The bombing of pipelines by Azerbaijanis coming from Georgia also stopped afterwards as it did not have the same effect as before, since Armenia was not as reliant on the pipeline system anymore.\n\nFurthermore, other power plants, such as Hrazdan Thermal Power Plant, Vorotan Cascade and Sevan-Hrazdan Cascade, provided daily load capacity, while Metsamor Nuclear Power Plant provided base load capacity. Thermal power plants operated to provide electricity in winter when electricity demand was peak, as it was quite a cold winter in Armenia. Although these times have passed, Armenia still relies on imported resources like gas and oil, which had collapsed the whole electricity production system in the 1990s. All the imported gas and oil is supplied from Russia via Georgia. Only a small amount of gas is supplied by Iran.\n\nThe Armenian electricity system reached 3914 MW of installed (full) capacity. However, only 2845 MW (73%) is currently operating. Electricity is mainly produced from 3 sources: nuclear (34%), thermal (32%) and hydro (34%). Over the past few years this number has increased as many new power plants have been constructed. Currently, Gas-powered turbines provide 25% of Armenia's electricity. These turbines not only produce a large amount of electricity, but they are also very efficient, which in turn has reduced the price for 1 kWh from 400 AMD to 160-170 AMD. There are also a few small power plants with a capacity of 50MW. One is Yerevan Thermoelectric Plant, which produces electricity mainly for Nairit Chemical Plant. The other is Vanadzor Thermoelectric Plant, which is not currently operational, but will operate for Vanadzor Chemical Plant when it opens. Metsamor Nuclear Power Plant produces approximately 440MW of electricity at full capacity, but only 1 of the units (the 2nd unit) is operating.\n\nThe largest portion of electricity production comes from hydropower plants. The largest hydropower plants in Armenia are Sevan-Hrazdan and Vorotan cascades, which can produce up to 960 MW of electricity. The Armenian electricity sector was in a real crisis from 1990-1995, but people were able to survive in such conditions, and now have a reliable electricity supply system.\n\n"}
{"id": "530908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=530908", "title": "BFG (weapon)", "text": "BFG (weapon)\n\nThe BFG is a fictional weapon found in many video game titles, mostly in first-person shooter series such as \"Doom\" and \"Quake\".\n\nThe abbreviation BFG stands for \"Big Fucking Gun\" as described in Tom Hall's original \"Doom\" design document and in the user manual of \"\". The \"Quake II\" manual says it stands for \"Big, Uh, Freakin' Gun\". These euphemistic labels imply the more profane name of the BFG, \"Big Fucking Gun\". Another version of the name used in the \"Doom\" motion picture is \"Bio Force Gun\". The versions found in the \"Doom\" games are called \"BFG 9000\" and those in \"Quake\" \"BFG 10K\".\n\nThe first appearance of the weapon is the press beta release of \"Doom\". In that version, the BFG 9000 released a cloud of 80 small plasma balls (randomly green or red) per shot.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" described the BFG 9000 in the first commercial \"Doom\" game as \"the Ultimate Weapon\". It is a large energy weapon that fires giant balls of green plasma. The most powerful weapon in the game, it causes major damage to most types of enemies and can clear an entire room of foes in one use. A direct hit from it is often an instant kill. The player is unaffected by the splash damage, which makes it possible to use the BFG 9000 safely in close quarters, unlike some of the other powerful weapons. In the first \"Doom\", the weapon can only be picked up in the third and fourth episodes. The BFG 9000 also appears virtually unchanged in \"\", \"Final Doom\", \"Doom 64\", and \"Doom RPG\".\n\nThe BFG's internal game mechanics are two-fold: the actual projectile deals a huge amount of damage, but after that, a large dose of damage is dealt in a cone facing away from the player who fired the shot; this increases the weapon's devastating area-of-effect. One peculiar quirk about the internal workings of the game code is that it remembers the direction the player fired the shot in, but not the position, meaning that the player is allowed to move far away even into an entirely different room, and still deal damage to whoever is in that room depending on the timing of the projectile's impact.\n\nIn \"Doom 3\", the BFG 9000 is a charged weapon: holding down the trigger causes the weapon to accumulate energy before release, resulting in a more powerful shot. Overcharging the BFG too much will cause it to overheat and explode, killing the player instantly.\n\n\"Quake II\" and \"Quake III Arena\" pay homage to the BFG 9000 with a pair of weapons both called the BFG10K. The \"Quake II\" version fires a slow plasma glob that fires rays at any enemies in range and line-of-sight. The \"Quake III Arena\" version of the BFG fire a series of fast plasma orbs, and acts quite like the Rocket Launcher (rocket jumping can also be done with the BFG10K). BFG10K from \"Quake III\" also appears in \"OpenArena\" (different look, but same behavior) and \"Quake Live\" (with slightly modified characteristics). \"Rage\" also pays homage to the BFG 9000 with a weapon known as the \"Authority Pulse Cannon\", which fires \"BFG Rounds\".\n\nIn the \"Doom\" movie, the \"bio force gun\" fires a bright blue projectile which appears to burst on impact and spray a caustic substance over its target and the surrounding area.\n\nThe BFG makes a return in the 2016 reboot, but unlike in its first two appearances, it follows the mechanics of its \"Quake II\" rendition, firing a projectile that shoots beams at enemies. The game itself doesn't resolve the acronym \"BFG\" either in-game or in its codex entries, although one challenge in the game's final campaign level involving the BFG is called \"Big [REDACTED] Gun\" as a nod to the original vulgar name.\n\nThe BFG will make a return in 2019's \"Doom Eternal\" as the BFG 10000, a massive version of the BFG on Mars's moon, Phobos.\n\nUGO.com ranked the BFG 9000 at number two on their list of top video game weapons of all time, stating \"it was marvelous and complex, and we should not hesitate to put this weapon down in history as one of the best.\" X-Play ranked it number one on their list of top \"badass\" weapons, stating that while \"not as fancy as the gravity gun\", it was the first weapon that \"really made us swoon\". IGN also listed the BFG as one of the hundred best weapons in video games, placing it at number 2, saying that \"The BFG established exactly what we should expect when it comes to powerful in-game weaponry\". Machinima.com named it number one on their list of top video game weapons, stating \"Do you really need a reason why this tops the list?\"\n\n\"BFR\" was the code name for SpaceX's privately funded launch vehicle announced by Elon Musk in September 2017. SpaceX President Gwynne Shotwell has stated that BFR stands for \"Big Falcon Rocket\". However, Elon Musk has explained that although BFR was the official name, he drew inspiration from the BFG weapon in the \"Doom\" video games. The BFR has been referred to informally by the media and internally at SpaceX as \"Big Fucking Rocket\". The upper stage was the Spaceship, or BFS (unofficially \"Big Fucking Spaceship\"). The BFR was eventually officially renamed to \"\"Super Heavy\", and the BFS renamed to \"Starship\"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "253842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253842", "title": "Board foot", "text": "Board foot\n\nThe board foot or board-foot is a unit of measurement for the volume of lumber in the United States and Canada. It is the volume of a one-foot length of a board one foot wide and one inch thick.\n\nBoard foot can be abbreviated FBM (for \"foot, board measure\"), BDFT, or BF. Thousand board feet can be abbreviated as MFBM, MBFT, or MBF. Similarly, million board feet can be abbreviated as MMFBM, MMBFT, or MMBF.\n\nIn Australia and New Zealand the term super foot or superficial foot was used to mean the same.\n\nOne board foot equals:\n\nBoard foot is the unit of measure for rough lumber (before drying and planing with no adjustments) or planed/surfaced lumber. An example of planed lumber is softwood 2 × 4 lumber one would buy at a large lumber retailer. The 2 × 4 is actually only but the dimensions for the lumber when purchased wholesale could still be represented as full 2 × 4 lumber, although the \"standard\" can vary between vendors. This means that nominal lumber includes air space around the physical board when calculating board feet in some situations, while the true measurement of \"board feet\" should be limited to the actual dimensions of the board.\n\nFor planed lumber, board feet refer to the nominal thickness and width of lumber, calculated in principle on its size before drying and planing. Actual length is used.\n\nSee dimensional lumber for a full discussion of the relationship of actual and nominal dimensions. Briefly, for softwoods, to convert nominal to actual, subtract inch for dimensions under ; subtract inch for dimensions under ; and subtract inch for larger measurements. The system is more complicated for hardwoods.\n\nAn Essex table is a tabulation of the number of board feet in lumber of varying dimensions.\n"}
{"id": "43341230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43341230", "title": "Bullet Group", "text": "Bullet Group\n\nThe Bullet Group (SL2S J08544-0121) is a newly merging group of galaxies, a merger between two galaxy groups to form a new larger one, that recently had a high speed collision between the two component groups. The group exhibits separation between its dark matter and baryonic matter components, and the galaxies occurring in two clumps, while the gas expanding into a billowing cloud encompassing all three clumps. As of 2014, it is one of the few galaxy clusters known to show separation between the dark matter and baryonic matter components. The group is named after the Bullet Cluster, a similar merging galaxy cluster, except on a smaller scale, being of groups instead of clusters. The bimodal distribution of galaxies was found at discovery in 2008. The galaxy group is a gravitational lens and strongly lenses a more distant galaxy behind it, at z=~1.2\n\nAs of 2014, the group is the smallest mass object to exhibit separation between its dark matter and baryonic matter components.\n\nThe galaxy group is dominated by one elliptical galaxy, situated in one of the two concentrations, while the other node has two large bright galaxies, which do not dominate the group. The group has an apparent radius of 200 arcseconds, and a virial radius of 1 megaparsec.\n\n"}
{"id": "22727349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22727349", "title": "Ceramic matrix composite", "text": "Ceramic matrix composite\n\nCeramic matrix composites (CMCs) are a subgroup of composite materials as well as a subgroup of ceramics. They consist of ceramic fibres embedded in a ceramic matrix. The matrix and fibres can consist of any ceramic material, whereby carbon and carbon fibres can also be considered a ceramic material.\n\nThe motivation to develop CMCs was to overcome the problems associated with the conventional technical ceramics like alumina, silicon carbide, aluminium nitride, silicon nitride or zirconia – they fracture easily under mechanical or thermo-mechanical loads because of cracks initiated by small defects or scratches. The crack resistance is – like in glass – very low. To increase the crack resistance or fracture toughness, particles (so-called monocrystalline \"whiskers\" or \"platelets\") were embedded into the matrix. However, the improvement was limited, and the products have found application only in some ceramic cutting tools. So far only the integration of long multi-strand fibres has drastically increased the crack resistance, elongation and thermal shock resistance, and resulted in several new applications. The reinforcements used in ceramic matrix composites (CMC) serve to enhance the fracture toughness of the combined material system while still taking advantage of the inherent high strength and Young’s modulus of the ceramic matrix. The most common reinforcement embodiment is a continuous-length ceramic fiber, with an elastic modulus that is typically somewhat higher than the matrix. The functional role of this fiber is (1) to increase the CMC stress for progress of micro-cracks through the matrix, thereby increasing the energy expended during crack propagation; and then (2) when thru-thickness cracks begin to form across the CMC at a higher stress (proportional limit stress, PLS), to bridge these cracks without fracturing, thereby providing the CMC with a high ultimate tensile strength (UTS). In this way, ceramic fiber reinforcements not only increase the composite structure’s initial resistance to crack propagation, but also allow the CMC to avoid abrupt brittle failure that is characteristic of monolithic ceramics. This behavior is distinct from the behavior of ceramic fibers in polymer matrix composites (PMC) and metal matrix composites (MMC), where the fibers typically fracture prior to the matrix due to the higher failure strain capabilities of these matrices. \n\nCarbon (C), special silicon carbide (SiC), alumina (AlO) and mullite (AlO–SiO) fibres are most commonly used for CMCs. The matrix materials are usually the same, that is C, SiC, alumina and mullite. Recently Ultra-high-temperature ceramics (UHTCs) were investigated as ceramic matrix in a new class of CMC so-called Ultra-high Temperature Ceramic Matrix Composites (UHTCMC) or Ultra-high Temperature Ceramic Composites (UHTCC).\n\nGenerally, CMC names include a combination of \"type of fibre/type of matrix\". For example, \"C/C\" stands for carbon-fibre-reinforced carbon (carbon/carbon), or \"C/SiC\" for carbon-fibre-reinforced silicon carbide. Sometimes the manufacturing process is included, and a C/SiC composite manufactured with the liquid polymer infiltration (LPI) process (see below) is abbreviated as \"LPI-C/SiC\".\n\nThe important commercially available CMCs are C/C, C/SiC, SiC/SiC and AlO/AlO. They differ from conventional ceramics in the following properties, presented in more detail below:\n\n\nThe manufacturing processes usually consist of the following three steps:\n\nThe first and the last step are almost the same for all CMCs:\nIn step one, the fibres, often named rovings, are arranged and fixed using techniques used in fibre-reinforced plastic materials, such as lay-up of fabrics, filament winding, braiding and knotting. The result of this procedure is called \"fibre-preform\" or simply \"preform\".\n\nFor the second step, five different procedures are used to fill the ceramic matrix in between the fibres of the preform:\n\nProcedures one, two and three find applications with non-oxide CMCs, whereas the fourth one is used for oxide CMCs; combinations of these procedures are also practised. The fifth procedure is not yet established in industrial processes. All procedures have sub-variations, which differ in technical details. All procedures yield a porous material.\n\nThe third and final step of machining – grinding, drilling, lapping or milling – has to be done with diamond tools. CMCs can also be processed with a water jet, laser, or ultrasonic machining.\n\nCeramic fibres in CMCs can have a polycrystalline structure, as in conventional ceramics. They can also be amorphous or have inhomogeneous chemical composition, which develops upon pyrolysis of organic precursors. The high process temperatures required for making CMCs preclude the use of organic, metallic or glass fibres. Only fibres stable at temperatures above 1000 °C can be used, such as fibres of alumina, mullite, SiC, zirconia or carbon. Amorphous SiC fibres have an elongation capability above 2% – much larger than in conventional ceramic materials (0.05 to 0.10%). The reason for this property of SiC fibres is that most of them contain additional elements like oxygen, titanium and/or aluminium yielding a tensile strength above 3 GPa. These enhanced elastic properties are required for various three-dimensional fibre arrangements (see example in figure) in textile fabrication, where a small bending radius is essential.\n\nChemical vapour deposition (CVD) is well suited for this purpose. In the presence of a fibre preform, CVD takes place in between the fibres and their individual filaments and therefore is called chemical vapour infiltration (CVI). One example is the manufacture of C/C composites: a C-fibre preform is exposed to a mixture of argon and a hydrocarbon gas (methane, propane, etc.) at a pressure of around or below 100 kPa and a temperature above 1000 °C. The gas decomposes depositing carbon on and between the fibers. Another example is the deposition of silicon carbide, which is usually conducted from a mixture of hydrogen and methyl-trichlorosilane (MTS, CHSiCl; it is also common in silicone production). Under defined condition this gas mixture deposits fine and crystalline silicon carbide on the hot surface within the preform.\nThis CVI procedure leaves a body with a porosity of about 10–15%, as access of reactants to the interior of the preform is increasingly blocked by deposition on the exterior.\n\nHydrocarbon polymers shrink during pyrolysis, and upon outgassing form carbon with an amorphous, glass-like structure, which by additional heat treatment can be changed to a more graphite-like structure. Other special polymers, where some carbon atoms are replaced by silicon atoms, the so-called polycarbosilanes, yield amorphous silicon carbide of more or less stoichiometric composition. A large variety of such SiC-, SiNC-, or SiBNC-producing precursors already exist and more are being developed. To manufacture a CMC material, the fibre preform is infiltrated with the chosen polymer. Subsequent curing and pyrolysis yield a highly porous matrix, which is undesirable for most applications. Further cycles of polymer infiltration and pyrolysis are performed until the final and desired quality is achieved. Usually five to eight cycles are necessary.\nThe process is called \"liquid polymer infiltration\" (LPI), or \"polymer infiltration and pyrolysis\" (PIP). Here also a porosity of about 15% is common due to the shrinking of the polymer. The porosity is reduced after every cycle.\n\nWith this method, one material located between the fibres reacts with a second material to form the ceramic matrix. Some conventional ceramics are also manufactured by chemical reactions. For example, reaction-bonded silicon nitride (RBSN) is produced through the reaction of silicon powder with nitrogen, and porous carbon reacts with silicon to form reaction bonded silicon carbide, a silicon carbide which contains inclusions of a silicon phase. An example of CMC manufacture, which was introduced for the production of ceramic brake discs, is the reaction of silicon with a porous preform of C/C. The process temperature is above 1414 °C, that is above the melting point of silicon, and the process conditions are controlled such that the carbon fibres of the C/C-preform almost completely retain their mechanical properties. This process is called \"liquid silicon infiltration\" (LSI). Sometimes, and because of its starting point with C/C, the material is abbreviated as \"C/C-SiC\". The material produced in this process has a very low porosity of about 3%.\n\nThis process is used to manufacture oxide fibre/oxide matrix CMC materials. Since most ceramic fibres can not withstand the normal sintering temperatures of above 1600 °C, special precursor liquids are used to infiltrate the preform of oxide fibres. These precursors allow sintering, that is ceramic-forming processes, at temperatures of 1000–1200 °C. They are, for example, based on mixtures of alumina powder with the liquids tetra-ethyl-orthosilicate (as Si donor) and aluminium-butylate (as Al donor), which yield a mullite matrix. Other techniques, such as sol-gel chemistry, are also used. CMCs obtained with this process usually have a high porosity of about 20%.\n\nIn the electrophoretic process, electrically charged particles dispersed in a special liquid are transported through an electric field into the preform, which has the opposite electrical charge polarity. This process is under development, and is not yet used industrially. Some remaining porosity must be expected here, too.\n\nThe high fracture toughness or crack resistance mentioned above is a result of the following mechanism: under load the ceramic matrix cracks, like any ceramic material, at an elongation of about 0.05%. In CMCs the embedded fibres bridge these cracks (see picture). This mechanism works only when the matrix can slide along the fibres, which means that there must be a weak bond between the fibres and matrix. A strong bond would require a very high elongation capability of the fibre bridging the crack, and would result in a brittle fracture, as with conventional ceramics. The production of CMC material with high crack resistance requires a step to weaken this bond between the fibres and matrix. This is achieved by depositing a thin layer of pyrolytic carbon or boron nitride on the fibres, which weakens the bond at the fibre/matrix interface (sometimes \"interface\"), leading to the fibre pull-out at crack surfaces, as shown in the SEM picture at the top of this article. In oxide-CMCs, the high porosity of the matrix is sufficient to establish the weak bond.\n\nThe influence and quality of the fibre interface can be evaluated through mechanical properties.\nMeasurements of the crack resistance were performed with notched specimens (see figure) in so-called single-edge-notch-bend (SENB) tests. In fracture mechanics, the measured data (force, geometry and crack surface) are normalized to yield the so-called stress intensity factor (SIF), K. Because of the complex crack surface (see figure at the top of this article) the real crack surface area can not be determined for CMC materials. The measurements therefore use the initial notch as the crack surface, yielding the \"formal SIF\" shown in the figure. This requires identical geometry for comparing different samples. The area under these curves thus gives a relative indication of the energy required to drive the crack tip through the sample (force times path length gives energy). The maxima indicate the load level necessary to propagate the crack through the sample. Compared to the sample of conventional SiSiC ceramic, two observations can be made:\nIn the table, CVI, LPI, and LSI denote the manufacturing process of the C/SiC-material. Data of the oxide CMC and SiSiC are taken from manufacturer data sheets. Tensile strength of SiSiC and AlO were calculated from measurements of elongation to fracture and Young's modulus, since generally only bending strength data are available for those ceramics. Averaged values are given in the table, and significant differences, even within one manufacturing route, are possible.\nTensile tests of CMCs usually show nonlinear stress-strain curves, which look as if the material deforms plastically. It is called \"quasi-plastic\", because the effect is caused by the microcracks, which are formed and bridged with increasing load. Since the Young's modulus of the load-carrying fibres is generally lower than that of the matrix, the slope of the curve decreases with increasing load.\n\nCurves from bending tests look similar to those of the crack resistance measurements shown above.\n\nThe following features are essential in evaluating bending and tensile data of CMCs:\n\nThe primary quality criterion for CMCs is the crack resistance behaviour or fracture toughness.\n\nIn many CMC components the fibres are arranged as 2-dimensional (2D) stacked plain or satin weave fabrics. Thus the resulting material is anisotropic or, more specifically, orthotropic. A crack between the layers is not bridged by fibres. Therefore, the interlaminar shear strength (ILS) and the strength perpendicular to the 2D fiber orientation are low for these materials. Delamination can occur easily under certain mechanical loads. Three-dimensional fibre structures can improve this situation (see micrograph above).\nThe compressive strengths shown in the table are lower than those of conventional ceramics, where values above 2000 MPa are common; this is a result of porosity.\nThe composite structure allows high dynamical loads. In the so-called low-cycle-fatigue (LCF) or high-cycle-fatigue (HCF) tests the material experiences cyclic loads under tensile and compressive (LCF) or only tensile (HCF) load. The higher the initial stress the shorter the lifetime and the smaller the number of cycles to rupture. With an initial load of 80% of the strength, a SiC/SiC sample survived about 8 million cycles (see figure).\n\nThe Poisson's ratio shows an anomaly when measured perpendicular to the plane of the fabric, because interlaminar cracks increase the sample thickness.\n\nThe thermal and electrical properties of the composite are a result of its constituents, namely fibres, matrix and pores as well as their composition. The orientation of the fibres yields anisotropic data. Oxide CMCs are very good electrical insulators, and because of their high porosity their thermal insulation is much better than that of conventional oxide ceramics.\n\nThe use of carbon fibres increases the electrical conductivity, provided the fibres contact each other and the voltage source. Silicon carbide matrix is a good thermal conductor. Electrically, it is a semiconductor, and its resistance therefore decreases with increasing temperature. Compared to (poly)crystalline SiC, the amorphous SiC fibres are relatively poor conductors of heat and electricity.\n\nComments for the table: (p) and (v) refer to data parallel and vertical to fibre orientation of the 2D-fiber structure, respectively. LSI material has the highest thermal conductivity because of its low porosity – an advantage when using it for brake discs. These data are subject to scatter depending on details of the manufacturing processes.\n\nConventional ceramics are very sensitive to thermal stress because of their high Young's modulus and low elongation capability. Temperature differences and low thermal conductivity create locally different elongations, which together with the high Young's modulus generate high stress. This results in cracks, rupture and brittle failure. In CMCs, the fibres bridge the cracks, and the components show no macroscopic damage, even if the matrix has cracked locally. The application of CMCs in brake disks demonstrates the effectiveness of ceramic composite materials under extreme thermal shock conditions.\n\nData on the corrosion behaviour of CMCs are scarce except for oxidation at temperatures above 1000 °C. These properties are determined by the constituents, namely the fibres and matrix. Ceramic materials in general are very stable to corrosion. The broad spectrum of manufacturing techniques with different sintering additives, mixtures, glass phases and porosities are crucial for the results of corrosion tests. Less impurities and exact stoichiometry lead to less corrosion. Amorphous structures and non-ceramic chemicals frequently used as sintering aids are starting points of corrosive attack.\n\nPure alumina shows excellent corrosion resistivity against most chemicals. Amorphous glass and silica phases at the grain boundaries determine the speed of corrosion in concentrated acids and bases and result in creep at high temperatures. These characteristics limit the use of alumina. For molten metals, alumina is used only with gold and platinum.\n\nThese fibres demonstrate corrosion properties similar to alumina, but commercially available fibres are not very pure and therefore less resistant. Because of creep at temperatures above 1000 °C, there are only few applications for oxide CMCs.\n\nThe most significant corrosion of carbon occurs in presence of oxygen above about 500 °C. It burns to form carbon dioxide and/or carbon monoxide. It also oxidises in strong oxidizing agents like concentrated nitric acid. In molten metals it dissolves and forms metal carbides. Carbon fibres do not differ from carbon in their corrosion behaviour.\n\nPure silicon carbide is one of the most corrosion-resistant materials. Only strong bases, oxygen above about 800 °C, and molten metals react with it to form carbides and silicides.\nThe reaction with oxygen forms SiO and CO, whereby a surface layer of SiO slows down subsequent oxidation (\"passive oxidation\"). Temperatures above about 1600 °C and a low partial pressure of oxygen result in so-called \"active oxidation\", in which CO, CO and gaseous SiO are formed causing rapid loss of SiC. If the SiC matrix is produced other than by CVI, corrosion-resistance is not as good. This is a consequence of porosity in the amorphous LPI, and residual silicon in the LSI-matrix.\n\nSilicon carbide fibres are produced via pyrolysis of organic polymers, and therefore their corrosion properties are similar to those of the silicon carbide found in LPI-matrices. These fibres are thus more sensitive to bases and oxidizing media than pure silicon carbide.\n\nCMC materials overcome the major disadvantages of conventional technical ceramics, namely brittle failure and low fracture toughness, and limited thermal shock resistance. Therefore, their applications are in fields requiring reliability at high-temperatures (beyond the capability of metals) and resistance to corrosion and wear. These include:\n\nIn addition to the foregoing, CMCs can be used in applications, which employ conventional ceramics or in which metal components have limited lifetimes due to corrosion or high temperatures.\n\nDuring the re-entry phase of space vehicles, the heat shield system is exposed to temperatures above 1500 °C for a few minutes. Only ceramic materials are able to survive such conditions without significant damage, and among ceramics only CMCs can adequately handle thermal shocks. The development of CMC-based heat shield systems promises the following advantages:\nIn these applications the high temperatures preclude the use of oxide fibre CMCs, because under the expected loads the creep would be too high. Amorphous silicon carbide fibres lose their strength due to re-crystallization at temperatures above 1250 °C. Therefore, carbon fibres in a silicon carbide matrix (C/SiC) are used in development programs for these applications. The European program HERMES of ESA, started in the 1980s and for financial reasons abandoned in 1992, has produced first results. Several follow-up programs focused on the development, manufacture, and qualification of nose cap, leading edges and steering flaps for the NASA space vehicle X-38.\nThis development program has qualified the use of C/SiC bolts and nuts, and the bearing system of the flaps. The latter were ground-tested at the DLR in Stuttgart, Germany, under expected conditions of the re-entry phase: 1600 °C, 4 tonnes load, oxygen partial pressure similar to re-entry conditions, and simultaneous bearing movements of four cycles per second. A total of five re-entry phases was simulated.\nFurthermore, oxidation protection systems were developed and qualified to prevent burnout of the carbon fibres. After mounting of the flaps, mechanical ground tests were performed successfully by NASA in Houston, Texas, US. The next test – a real re-entry of the unmanned vehicle X-38 – was cancelled for financial reasons. One of the space shuttles would have brought the vehicle into orbit, from where it would have returned to the Earth.\n\nThese qualifications were promising for only this application. The high-temperature load lasts only around 20 minutes per re-entry, and for reusability, only about 30 cycles would be sufficient. For industrial applications in hot gas environment, though, several hundred cycles of thermal loads and up to many thousands hours of lifetime are required.\n\nThe Intermediate Experimental Vehicle (IXV), a project initiated by ESA in 2009, is Europe's first lifting body reentry vehicle. Developed by Thales Alenia Space, the IXV is scheduled to make its first flight in 2014 on the fourth Vega mission (VV04) over the Gulf of Guinea. More than 40 European companies contributed to its construction. The thermal protection system for the underside of the vehicle, comprising the nose, leading edges and lower surface of the wing, were designed and made by Herakles using a ceramic matrix composite (CMC), carbon/silicon-carbide (C/SiC). These components will function as the vehicle's heat shield during its atmospheric reentry.\n\nThe European Commission funded a research project, C3HARME, under the NMP-19-2015 call of Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development (H2020) in 2016 for the design, development, production and testing of a new class of Ultra-high-temperature ceramic matrix composites (UHTCMC) reinforced with silicon carbide fibers and Carbon fibers suitable for applications in severe aerospace environments such as propulsion and Thermal protection systems (TPSs).\n\nThe use of CMCs in gas turbines permit higher turbine inlet temperatures, which improves turbine efficiency. Because of the complex shape of stator vanes and turbine blades, the development was first focused on the combustion chamber. In the US, a combustor made of SiC/SiC with a special SiC fiber of enhanced high-temperature stability was successfully tested for 15,000 hours. SiC oxidation was substantially reduced by the use of an oxidation protection coating consisting of several layers of oxides.\n\nThe engine collaboration between General Electric and Rolls-Royce studied the use of CMC stator vanes in the hot section of the F136 turbofan engine, an engine which failed to beat the Pratt and Whitney F-135 for use in the Joint Strike Fighter.\nThe engine joint venture, CFM International is using CMCs to manufacture the high temperature turbine shrouds. General Electric is using CMCs in combustor liners, nozzles, and the high temperature turbine shroud for its upcoming GE9X engine. CMC parts are also being studied for stationary applications in both the cold and hot sections of the engines, since stresses imposed on rotating parts would require further development effort. Generally, development continues of CMCs for use in turbines to reduce technical issues and cost reduction.\n\nAfter $1.5 billion in investment and 20 years of research and development, by 2020 GE Aviation aims to produce per year up to 20 t (44,000 lb) of CMC prepreg and 10 t of silicon carbide fiber.\nChemical vapor deposition can apply coatings on a laid-able fiber tape in large quantities and Ge managed to infiltrate and cast parts with very high silicon densities, higher than 90% for cyclic fatigue environments, thanks to thermal processing.\n\nOxygen-containing gas at temperatures above 1000 °C is rather corrosive for metal and silicon carbide components. Such components, which are not exposed to high mechanical stress, can be made of oxide CMCs, which can withstand temperatures up to 1200 °C. The gallery below shows the flame holder of a crisp bread bakery as tested after for 15,000 hours, which subsequently operated for a total of more than 20,000 hours.\nFlaps and ventilators circulating hot, oxygen-containing gases can be fabricated in the same shape as their metal equivalents. The lifetime for these oxide CMC components is several times longer than for metals, which often deform. A further example is an oxide CMC lifting gate for a sintering furnace, which has survived more than 260,000 opening cycles.\n\nCarbon/carbon (C/C) materials have found their way into the disk brakes of racing cars and aeroplanes, and C/SiC brake disks manufactured by the LSI process were qualified and are commercially available for luxury vehicles. The advantages of these C/SiC disks are:\n\nThe weight reduction improves shock absorber response, road-holding comfort, agility, fuel economy, and thus driving comfort.\n\nThe SiC-matrix of LSI has a very low porosity, which protects the carbon fibres quite well. Brake disks do not experience temperatures above 500 °C for more than a few hours in their lifetime. Oxidation is therefore not a problem in this application. The reduction of manufacturing costs will decide the success of this application for middle-class cars.\n\nConventional SiC, or sometimes the less expensive SiSiC, have been used successfully for more than 25 years in slide or journal bearings of pumps. The pumped liquid itself provides the lubricant for the bearing. Very good corrosion resistance against practically all kinds of media, and very low wear and low friction coefficients are the basis of this success. These bearings consist of a static bearing, shrink-fitted in its metallic environment, and a rotating shaft sleeve, mounted on the shaft. Under compressive stress the ceramic static bearing has a low risk of failure, but a SiC shaft sleeve does not have this situation and must therefore have a large wall thickness and/or be specially designed. In large pumps with shafts 100–350 mm in diameter, the risk of failure is higher due to the changing requirements on the pump performance – for example, load changes during operation. The introduction of SiC/SiC as a shaft sleeve material has proven to be very successful. Test rig experiments showed an almost triple specific load capability of the bearing system with a shaft sleeve made of SiC/SiC, sintered SiC as static bearing, and water at 80 °C as lubricant.\nThe specific load capacity of a bearing is usually given in W/mm and calculated as a product of the load (MPa), surface speed of the bearing (m/s) and friction coefficient; it is equal to the power loss of the bearing system due to friction.\n\nIn boiler feedwater pumps of power stations, which pump several thousand cubic meters of hot water to a level of 2000 m, and in tubular casing pumps for water works or sea water desalination plants (pumping up to 40,000 m to a level of around 20 m) this slide bearing concept, namely SiC/SiC shaft sleeve and SiC bearing, has been used since 1994. A picture of such shaft sleeves is shown at the top of this article.\n\nThis bearing system has been tested in pumps for liquid oxygen, for example in oxygen turbopumps for thrust engines of space rockets, with the following results. SiC and SiC/SiC are compatible with liquid oxygen. In an auto-ignition test according to the French standard NF 28-763, no auto-ignition was observed with powdered SiC/SiC in 20 bar pure oxygen at temperatures up to 525 °C. Tests have shown that the friction coefficient is half, and wear one fiftieth of standard metals used in this environment.\nA hydrostatic bearing system (see picture) has survived several hours at a speed up to 10,000 revolutions per minute, various loads, and 50 cycles of start/stop transients without any significant traces of wear.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1927991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927991", "title": "Charabanc", "text": "Charabanc\n\nA charabanc or \"char-à-banc\" (often pronounced \"sharra-bang\" in colloquial British English) is a type of horse-drawn vehicle or early motor coach, usually open-topped, common in Britain during the early part of the 20th century. It has \"benched seats arranged in rows, looking forward, commonly used for large parties, whether as public conveyances or for excursions.\" It was especially popular for sight-seeing or \"works outings\" to the country or the seaside, organised by businesses once a year. The name derives from the French \"char à bancs\" (\"carriage with wooden benches\"), the vehicle having originated in France in the early 19th century.\n\nAlthough the vehicle has not been common on the roads since the 1920s, a few signs survive from the era; a notable example at Wookey Hole in Somerset warns that the road to the neighbouring village of Easton is unsuitable for charabancs. The word 'charabanc' was in common usage until the middle of the 20th century but was deleted as obsolete from the pocket edition of the Collins Dictionary in 2011. The word is in common usage especially in Northern England in a jocular way referring to works outings by coach.\n\nIn Australia a modern similar type of bus or motorcoach, with two lateral doors for each row of seats, survived up to the 1970s and was referred to as side loader bus; but all or most of them were not open-topped. One such a bus based in Echuca, Victoria, has been restored and is used at the Port of Echuca on some public holidays and special events.\n\nBuses with similar arrangement of doors and seats are a common equipment for the antiriot squads of many police forces, as the arrangement lends itself to the squad exiting the vehicle quickly.\n\nIntroduced in the 1840s as a French sporting vehicle, the \"char à bancs\" was popular at race meetings and for hunting or shooting parties. It could be pulled by a four-in-hand team of horses or a pair in pole gear. It had two or more rows of crosswise bench seats, plus a slightly lower rear seat for a groom, and most also had a slatted trunk for luggage. Initially used by the wealthy, they were later enlarged with more seats for school or works excursions and tourist transport, as a cheaper version of the tourist coach. The first charabanc in Britain was presented to Queen Victoria by Louis Philippe of France and is preserved in the Royal Mews.\n\nBefore the First World War, motor charabancs were used mainly for day trips, as they were not comfortable enough for longer journeys, and were largely replaced by motor buses in the 1920s.\nThe charabanc of the 1920s tended to last only a few years. It was normal at the time for the body to be built separately to the motor chassis and some were fitted in summer only; a second goods body would be fitted in its place in winter to keep the vehicle occupied.\n\nCharabancs were normally open top, with a large canvas folding hood stowed at the rear in case of rain, much like a convertible motor car. If rain started, this had to be pulled into position, a very heavy task, and it was considered honourable for the male members of the touring party to assist in getting it into position. The side windows would be of mica (a thin layer of quartz-like stone).\n\nThe charabanc offered little or no protection to the passengers in the event of an overturning accident, they had a high centre of gravity when loaded (and particularly if overloaded), and they often traversed the steep and winding roads leading to the coastal villages popular with tourists. These factors led to fatal accidents which contributed to their early demise.\n\nFactory day outings (annual works trips) in the 19th and early 20th century were quite common for workers, especially for those from the northern weaving mill towns of Lancashire and Yorkshire during the wakes weeks. The 1940s and 1950s were relatively hard times due to national recovery being slow after the Second World War; rationing was still evident and annual holidays had not really become established for poorer workers such as weavers and spinners, so a day's outing to the seaside was a rare treat and all that some workers with large families could afford. \"Charabanc trips\" were usually only for adults, again due to finance. Occasionally the mill owner would help to pay for these outings, but this was not always the case.\n\nThe charabancs, or coaches, were pretty basic vehicles; noisy, uncomfortable and often poorly upholstered with low-backed seats and used mainly for short journeys to the nearest resort town or the races. Some working men's clubs also organised days out and these trips were often subsidised by the clubs themselves from membership subscriptions that had been paid throughout the year. A few pence a week would be paid to a club or mill trip organiser and marked down in a notebook. This would be paid out to the saver on the day of the trip as spending money on the day. This day out would often be the highlight of the year for some workers and the only chance to get away from the smog and grime of the busy mill towns.\n\nLater, in the late 1960s and 1970s, as the mills prospered and things improved financially, the annual \"wakes week\" took over and a one-week mass exodus from northern mill towns during the summer months took precedence over the charabanc trips, and a full week's holiday at a holiday camp or in a seaside boarding house for the full family became the norm, instead of a single day out.\n\nThe French \"char à banc\" appears in Leo Tolstoy's \"Anna Karenina\" [1877] in Part 6, Chapter 17 in the Pevear/Volokhonsky translation [2000].\n\nThe charabanc is notably mentioned in Dylan Thomas's short story \"A Story\", also known as \"The Outing\". In this piece the young Thomas unintentionally finds himself on the annual men's charabanc outing to Porthcawl. Within the story the charabanc is referred to as a 'chara' in colloquial Welsh English.\n\n\"Cider with Rosie\" by Laurie Lee features a 1917 charabanc outing from rural Gloucestershire to Weston-super-Mare.\n\nVince Hill's \"A Day at the Seaside\" begins with the line \"Climb up little darling, into the charabanc\". The song, written by Les Vandyke, came fifth in the 1963 Song for Europe competition.\n\nA char-a-banc also figures prominently in Rudyard Kipling's short story \"The Village that Voted the Earth Was Flat\" (1913).\n\nChar-a-bancs are mentioned in Dorothy Edwards' book \"The Witches and the Grinnygog\" in the chapter entitled \"Mrs. Umphrey's Ghost Story\". In it, Mrs. Umphrey tries to reassure the ghost of Margaret that the char-a-bancs are not the chariots of devils.\n\n\"Peaches\", a single by the Stranglers makes reference to a charabanc, with vocalist Hugh Cornwell explaining to the listener how he will be stuck on a beach \"the whole summer\" after missing a charabanc.\n\nIn Agatha Christie's \"The Dead Harlequin\", from \"The Mysterious Mr Quin\" series, the young artist Frank Bristow reacts angrily to the older Colonel Monkton's dismissive (and presumably snobbish) attitude towards charabancs and their use in tourism. They are also mentioned in the story \"Double Sin\" when the motor coach Poirot and Hastings are traveling on stops for lunch at Monkhampton. \"...in a big courtyard, about twenty char-a-bancs were parked--char-a-bancs which had come from all over the country.\"\n\nCharabancs appeared several times in John Le Carre's \"The Little Drummer Girl\".\n\nThe Jethro Tull song \"Wond'ring Again\" by Ian Anderson uses the term: \"Incestuous ancestry's charabanc ride...\" \n\nOn the Small Faces' 1968 album \"Ogden's Nut Gone Flake\", the title character of the \"Happiness Stan\" suite of songs taking up side 2 lives in a Charabanc, described in characteristic fashion by narrator Stanley Unwin as \"a four wheeled fillolop out the backgrove\". On the 1968 performance by the band of the suite on BBC2's \"Colour Me Pop\", Unwin renders this section as \"an ancient Victoriana Charabanc - and this was the old type, sit-up-and-beg, rotate fit a poppy with solid wheels.\" \n\nThe charabanc appears in Louisa May Alcott's Little Women. Mr Lawrence, the March's wealthy neighbour, lends it to the March girls. Jokingly, they call it the \"cherry bounce\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16662777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16662777", "title": "Charge control", "text": "Charge control\n\nCharge control is a technology that lets an electric utility control, in real time, the charging of a \"gridable\" (plug-in) vehicle, such as a plug-in hybrid (PHEV) or a battery electric vehicle (BEV). Through charge control, the utility is able to postpone charging of the vehicle during time of peak demand. Additionally, this technology may enable the owner and the power company to track the vehicle's usage and performance, while on the road and while charging.\n\n\nIn both V2G and charge control, the electric utility can control the power flow between a plug-in vehicle and the power grid. However, in charge control power only flows from the grid to the vehicle, while in V2G power can flow in both directions.\n\nDisabling charging in charge control vehicles helps balance the loading on the power grid by \"valley filling\" (charging at night when demand is low) and \"peak shaving\" (not charging when demand is high). It can enable utilities new ways to provide regulation services (keeping voltage and frequency stable).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39416408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39416408", "title": "Chiahui Power Plant", "text": "Chiahui Power Plant\n\nThe Chiahui Power Plant () is a gas-fired power plant in Songshan Village, Minxiong Township, Chiayi County, Taiwan.\n\nThe construction of the power plant began in January 2002 and the commercial operation was expected to be started in March 2004. However, the project was completed ahead of schedule and the commissioning of the plant was done in December 2003. The project is the first independent power producer project in Taiwan.\n\nAsia Cement Corporation and its affiliates owns 59% of equity share, while J-Power owns 40%. The remaining 1% share is owned by other private shareholders.\n\nThe power plant consists of multiple-shaft combined cycle unit with one steam turbine-generator, three gas turbine generators and three heat recovery steam generators, designed for natural gas firing. The gas turbine generators came fromm General Electric with F-class technology and was shipped in 2002. Each has 18-stage axial compressor and 3-stage turbine. It also features a cold-end drive and axial exhaust.\n\nThe power plant is designed for intermediate load operation with daily startup and shutdown to sell power to match the power dispatch schedule of Taipower. The whole generated electricity is sold to Taipower.\n\nChiahui Power Plant is accessible west from Minxiong Station of Taiwan Railways Administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "530340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=530340", "title": "Control grid", "text": "Control grid\n\nThe control grid is an electrode used in amplifying thermionic valves (vacuum tubes) such as the triode, tetrode and pentode, used to control the flow of electrons from the cathode to the anode (plate) electrode. The control grid usually consists of a cylindrical screen or helix of fine wire surrounding the cathode, and is surrounded in turn by the anode. The control grid was invented by Lee De Forest, who in 1906 added a grid to the Fleming valve (thermionic diode) to create the first amplifying vacuum tube, the Audion (triode).\n\nIn a valve, the hot cathode emits negatively charged electrons, which are attracted to and captured by the anode, which is given a positive voltage by a power supply. The control grid between the cathode and anode functions as a \"gate\" to control the current of electrons reaching the anode. A more negative voltage on the grid will repel the electrons back toward the cathode so fewer get through to the anode. A less negative, or positive, voltage on the grid will allow more electrons through, increasing the anode current. A given change in grid voltage causes a proportional change in plate current, so if a time-varying voltage is applied to the grid, the plate current waveform will be a copy of the applied grid voltage. \n\nA relatively small variation in voltage on the control grid causes a significantly large variation in anode current. The presence of a resistor in the anode circuit causes a large variation in voltage to appear at the anode. The variation in anode voltage can be much larger than the variation in grid voltage which caused it, and thus the tube can amplify, functioning as an amplifier.\n\nThe grid in the first triode valve consisted of a zig-zag piece of wire placed between the filament and the anode. This quickly evolved into a helix or cylindrical screen of fine wire placed between a single strand filament (or later, a cylindrical cathode) and a cylindrical anode. The grid is usually made of a very thin wire that can resist high temperatures and is not prone to emitting electrons itself. Molybdenum alloy with a gold plating is frequently used. It is wound on soft copper sideposts, which are swaged over the grid windings to hold them in place. A 1950s variation is the frame grid, which winds very fine wire onto a rigid stamped metal frame. This allows the holding of very close tolerances, so the grid can be placed closer to the filament (or cathode).\n\nBy placing the control grid closer to the filament/cathode relative to the anode, a greater amplification results. This degree of amplification is referred to in valve data sheets as the amplification factor, or \"mu\". It also results in higher transconductance, which is a measure of the anode current change versus grid voltage change. The noise figure of a valve is inversely proportional to its transconductance; higher transconductance generally means lower noise figure. Lower noise can be very important when designing a radio or television receiver.\n\nA valve can contain more than one control grid. The hexode contains two such grids, one for a received signal and one for the signal from a local oscillator. The valve's inherent non-linearity causes not only both original signals to appear in the anode circuit, but also the sum and difference of those signals. This can be exploited as a frequency-changer in superheterodyne receivers.\n\nA variation of the control grid is to produce the helix with a variable pitch. This gives the resultant valve a distinct non-linear characteristic. This is often exploited in R.F. amplifiers where an alteration of the grid bias changes the mutual conductance and hence the gain of the device. This variation usually appears in the pentode form of the valve, where it is then called a variable-mu pentode or remote-cutoff pentode.\n\nOne of the principal limitations of the triode valve is that there is considerable capacitance between the grid and the anode (C). A phenomenon known as the Miller Effect causes the input capacitance of an amplifier to be the product of C and amplification factor of the valve. This, and the instability of an amplifier with tuned input and output when C is large can severely limit the upper operating frequency. These effects can be overcome by the addition of a screen grid, however in the later years of the tube era, constructional techniques were developed that rendered this 'parasitic capacitance' so low that triodes operating in the upper very high frequency (VHF) bands became possible. The Mullard EC91 operated at up to 250 MHz. The anode-grid capacitiance of the EC91 is quoted in manufacturer's literature as 2.5 pF, which is higher than many other triodes of the era, while many triodes of the 1920s had figures which are strictly comparable, so there was no advance in this area. However, early screen-grid tetrodes of the 1920s, have C of only 1 or 2fF, around a thousand times less. 'Modern' pentodes have comparable values of C. Triodes were used in VHF amplifiers in 'grounded-grid' configuration, a circuit arrangement which prevents Miller feedback.\n"}
{"id": "2471575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2471575", "title": "Controlled substance", "text": "Controlled substance\n\nA controlled substance is generally a drug or chemical whose manufacture, possession, or use is regulated by a government, such as illicitly used drugs or prescription medications that are designated by law. Some treaties, notably the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, and the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances provide internationally agreed upon \"schedules\" of controlled substances, which have been incorporated into national laws.\n\nSome precursor chemicals used for the production of illegal drugs are also controlled substances in many countries, even though they may lack the pharmacological effects of the drugs themselves. Substances are classified according to schedules and consist primarily of potentially psychoactive substances. The controlled substances do not include many prescription items such as antibiotics.\n\nIn the United States, the Drug Enforcement Administration is the federal government agency responsible for suppressing illegal drug use and distribution by enforcing the Controlled Substances Act, which regulates both the drugs themselves and certain precursors. Some U.S. states have additional restrictions for substances which might or might not be regulated by the federal government. During the Obama Administration, the federal government also voluntarily suspended enforcement of federal laws restricting marijuana where people were operating in compliance with state law.\n\nSome states in the U.S. have statutes against health care providers self-prescribing and/or administering substances listed in the Controlled Substance Act schedules. This does not forbid licensed providers from self-prescribing medications not on the schedules.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the term \"controlled drug\" (CD) is used for substances governed by the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971. Other national drug prohibition laws include the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act (Canada) and the Misuse of Drugs Act 1975 (New Zealand), among many others.\n\n"}
{"id": "1811634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1811634", "title": "Cryoscopic constant", "text": "Cryoscopic constant\n\nIn thermodynamics, the cryoscopic constant, K, relates molality to freezing point depression (which is a colligative property). It is the ratio of the latter to the former:\n\n\nThrough cryoscopy, a known constant can be used to calculate an unknown molar mass. The term \"cryoscopy\" comes from Greek and means \"freezing measurement.\" Freezing point depression is a colligative property, so formula_4 depends only on the number of solute particles dissolved, not the nature of those particles. Cryoscopy is related to ebullioscopy, which determines the same value from the ebullioscopic constant (of boiling point elevation).\n\nThe K for water is 1.853 K·kg/mol.\n"}
{"id": "48287182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48287182", "title": "Diphosphorus tetroxide", "text": "Diphosphorus tetroxide\n\nDiphosphorus tetroxide, or phosphorus tetroxide is an inorganic compound of phosphorus and oxygen. It has the empirical chemical formula . Solid diphosphorus tetroxide (also referred to as phosphorus(III,V)-oxide) consists of variable mixtures of the mixed-valence oxides PO, PO and PO.\n\nPhosphorus tetroxide is obtainable by thermal decomposition of phosphorus trioxide:\n\nIn addition, phosphorus trioxide can be converted into phosphorus tetroxide by controlled oxidation with oxygen in carbon tetrachloride solution.\n\nCareful reduction of phosphorus pentoxide with red phosphorus at 450-525 °C also produces the phosphorus tetroxide.\n"}
{"id": "2178304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2178304", "title": "Disconnector", "text": "Disconnector\n\nIn electrical engineering, a disconnector, disconnect switch or isolator switch is used to ensure that an electrical circuit is completely de-energized for service or maintenance. Such switches are often found in electrical distribution and industrial applications, where machinery must have its source of driving power removed for adjustment or repair. High-voltage isolation switches are used in electrical substations to allow isolation of apparatus such as circuit breakers, transformers, and transmission lines, for maintenance. The disconnector is usually not intended for normal control of the circuit, but only for safety isolation. Disconnectors can be operated either manually or automatically.\nUnlike load switches and circuit breakers, disconnectors lack a mechanism for suppression of electric arcs, which occurs when conductors carrying high currents are electrically interrupted. Thus, they are off-load devices, with very low breaking capacity, intended to be opened only after current has been interrupted by some other control device. Safety regulations of the utility must prevent any attempt to open the disconnector while it supplies a circuit. Standards in some countries for safety may require either local motor isolators or lockable overloads (which can be padlocked).\n\nDisconnectors have provisions for a lockout-tagout so that inadvertent operation is not possible. In high-voltage or complex systems, these locks may be part of a trapped-key interlock system to ensure proper sequence of operation. In some designs, the isolator switch has the additional ability to earth the isolated circuit thereby providing additional safety. Such an arrangement would apply to circuits which inter-connect power distribution systems where both ends of the circuit need to be isolated.\n\nA switch disconnector combines the properties of the disconnector and the load switch, so it provides the safety isolation function while being able to make and break nominal currents.\n\nDisconnectors can be classified into various types based upon there constructional features and mounting arrangement. The major types of disconnectors are:\n\n\nThese are selected based upon the sub-station layout, clearances available and space constrains.\n\nIn a disconnecting circuit breaker the disconnectors are integrated in the breaking chamber, which eliminates the need for separate disconnectors. The intention of this combined device is to decrease maintenance and increase availability and reliability. The usage of this device instead of a disconnector is limited due to the fact that the open gap is not clearly visible and many doubts in term of safety arise during maintenance activities. Where it is adopted the earthing switch must be used and the performance must be increased by the typical value.\n\nThe open-air disconnecting switches typically need maintenance every five years (every two years under very polluted conditions), while circuit breakers have maintenance intervals of 15 years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28729688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28729688", "title": "Downstream (2010 film)", "text": "Downstream (2010 film)\n\nDownstream is a 2010 post-apocalyptic film that takes place in a near-future dystopia where gasoline is scarce and a drifter tries to reach a rumored utopian city, Plutopia, powered by clean energy. The film is directed by Simone Bartesaghi and co-directed, written, and produced by Philip Y. Kim.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29985074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29985074", "title": "Dynamic strain aging", "text": "Dynamic strain aging\n\nAlthough sometimes dynamic strain aging is used interchangeably with the Portevin–Le Chatelier effect (or serrated yielding), dynamic strain aging refers specifically to the microscopic mechanism that induces the Portevin–Le Chatelier effect. This strengthening mechanism is related to solid-solution strengthening and has been observed in a variety of fcc and bcc substitutional and interstitial alloys, metalloids like silicon, and ordered intermetallics within specific ranges of temperature and strain rate.\n\nIn materials, the motion of dislocations is a discontinuous process. When dislocation meets obstacles (like forest dislocations) they are temporary arrested for a certain time. During this time solutes (such as interstitial particles) diffuse around the dislocations further strengthening the obstacles held on the dislocations. Eventually these dislocations will overcome these obstacles with sufficient stress and will quickly move to the next obstacle where they are stopped and the process can repeat. This process's most well-known manifestations are Lüders bands and the Portevin–Le Chatelier effect. Though the mechanism is known to affect materials without these physical observations.\n\nAlthough serrations in the stress–strain curve caused by the Portevin–Le Chatelier effect are the most visible effect of dynamic strain aging, other effects may be present when this effect is not seen. Often when serrated flow is not seen, dynamic strain aging is marked by a lower strain rate sensitivity. That becomes negative in the Portevin–Le Chatelier regime. Dynamic strain aging also causes a plateau in the strength, a peak in flow stress a peak in work hardening, a peak in the Hall–Petch constant, and minimum variation of ductility with temperature. Since dynamic strain aging is a hardening phenomenon it increases the strength of the material.\n\nDynamic strain aging has been shown to be linked to these specific material problems:\n\n"}
{"id": "44696468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44696468", "title": "Elean power station", "text": "Elean power station\n\nElean power station is a straw-fired biomass power station in Cambridgeshire, England. At a capacity of 38 MW, it was the largest straw-fired power plant in the world at the time of its completion. The power station was constructed between 1998 and 2000 by FLS Miljo and is operated by EPR Ely Ltd. It generates 270 GWh of electricity from 200,000 tonnes of biomass annually, supplied by Anglian Straw Ltd. Straw is the major fuel of the plant, but oilseed rape and the energy crop \"Miscanthus\" are also used, as well as some natural gas.\n\nIn 2011, the company owning the plant were fined £120,000 after an accident during the unloading of a straw bale lead to the death of a delivery driver. Later the same year Elean was affected by an arson attack on stacks of straw that were destined to be used at the plant.\n"}
{"id": "51215300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51215300", "title": "Electron heat capacity", "text": "Electron heat capacity\n\nIn solid state physics the electron heat capacity or electronic specific heat describes the contribution of electrons to the heat capacity. \nHeat is transported by phonons and by free electrons in solids. For pure metals, however, the electronic contributions dominate in the thermal conductivity. In impure metals, the electron mean free path is reduced by collisions with impurities, and the phonon contribution may be comparable with the electronic contribution.\n\nAlthough the Drude model was fairly successful in describing the electron motion within metals, it has some erroneous aspects: it predicts the Hall coefficient with the wrong sign compared to experimental measurements, the assumed additional electronic heat capacity to the lattice heat capacity, namely formula_1 per electron at elevated temperatures, is also inconsistent with experimental values, since measurements of metals show no deviation from the Dulong-Petit law. The observed electronic contribution of electrons to the heat capacity is usually less than one percent of formula_2. This problem seemed insoluble prior to the development of quantum mechanics. This paradox was solved by Sommerfeld after the discovery of the Pauli exclusion principle, who recognised that the replacement of the Boltzmann distribution with the Fermi-Dirac distribution was required and incorporated it in the free electron model.\n\nWhen a metallic system is heated from absolute zero, not every electron gains an energy formula_3 as equipartition dictates. Only those electrons in atomic orbitals within an energy range of formula_4 of the Fermi level are thermally excited. Electrons, in contrast to a classical gas, can only move into free states in their energetic neighbourhood.\nThe one-electron energy levels are specified by the wave vector formula_5 through the relation formula_6 with formula_7 the electron mass. This relation separates the occupied energy states from the unoccupied ones and corresponds to the spherical surface in k-space. As formula_8 the ground state distribution becomes:\n\nformula_9\nwhere\n\nThis implies that the ground state is the only occupied state for electrons in the limit formula_8, the formula_15 takes the Pauli exclusion principle into account. The internal energy formula_16 of a system within the free electron model is given by the sum over one-electron levels times the mean number of electrons in that level:\n\nformula_17\n\nUsing the approximation that for a sum over a smooth function formula_18 over all allowed values of formula_5 for finite large system is given by:\n\nformula_20\nwhere\n\nFor the reduced internal energy formula_22 the expression for formula_16 can be rewritten as:\n\nformula_24\n\nand the expression for the electron density formula_25 can be written as:\n\nformula_26\n\nThe integrals above can be evaluated using the fact that the dependence of the integrals on formula_27 can be changed to dependence on formula_28 through the relation for the electronic energy as described by the free electron model formula_6 which yields for an arbitrary function formula_30:\n\nformula_31\n\nwith formula_32\nwhich is known as the density of levels or density of states per unit volume such that formula_33 is the total number of states between formula_28 and formula_35 . Using the expressions above the integrals can be rewritten as:\n\nformula_36\n\nThese integrals can be evaluated for temperatures that are small compared to the Fermi temperature by applying the Sommerfeld expansion and using the approximation that formula_12 differs from formula_11 for formula_39 by terms of order formula_40. The expressions become:\n\nformula_41\n\nFor the ground state configuration the first terms (the integrals) of the expressions above yield the internal energy and electron density of the ground state. The expression for the electron density reduces to formula_42. Substituting this into the expression for the internal energy, one finds the following expression:\n\nformula_43\n\nThe contributions of electrons within the free electron model is given by:\n\nformula_44, for free electrons : formula_45\n\nCompared to the classical result formula_46 it can be concluded that this result is depressed by a factor of formula_47 which is at room temperature of order of magnitude formula_48. This explains the absence of an electronic contribution to the heat capacity as measured experimentally.\n\nNote that in this derivation formula_11 is often denoted by formula_50 which is known as the Fermi energy. In this notation, the electron heat capacity becomes:\n\nformula_51 and for free electrons : formula_52 using the definition for the Fermi energy with formula_53 the Fermi temperature.\n\nFor temperatures below both the Debye temperature formula_54 and the Fermi temperature formula_55 the heat capacity of metals can be written as a sum of electron and phonon contributions that are linear and cubic respectively: formula_56. The coefficient formula_57 can be calculated and determined experimentally. Some values are tabulated below:\nThe free electrons in a metal do not usually lead to a strong deviation from the Dulong–Petit law at high temperatures. Since formula_57 is linear in formula_59 and formula_60 is linear in formula_61, at low temperatures the lattice contribution vanishes faster than the electronic contribution and the latter can be measured. The deviation of the approximated and experimentally determined electronic contribution to the heat capacity of a metal is not too large. A few metals deviate significantly from this approximated prediction. Measurements indicate that these errors are associated with the electron mass being somehow changed in the metal, for the calculation of the electron heat capacity the effective mass of an electron should be considered instead. For Fe and Co the large deviations are attributed to the partially filled d-shells of these transition metals, whose d-bands lie at the Fermi energy.\nThe alkali metals are expected to have the best agreement with the free electron model since these metals only one s-electron outside a closed shell. However even sodium, which is considered to be the closest to a free electron metal, is determined to have a formula_57 more than 25 per cent higher than expected from the theory.\n\nCertain effects influence the deviation from the approximation:\n\nSuperconductivity occurs in many metallic elements of the periodic system and also in alloys, intermetallic compounds, and doped semiconductors. This effect occurs upon cooling the material. The entropy decreases on cooling below the critical temperature formula_63 for superconductivity which indicates that the superconducting state is more ordered than the normal state. The entropy change is small, this must mean that only a very small fraction of electrons participate in the transition to the superconducting state but, the electronic contribution to the heat capacity changes drastically. There is a sharp jump of the heat capcacity at the critical temperature while for the temperatures above the critical temperature the heat capacity is linear with temperature.\n\nThe calculation of the electron heat capacity for super conductors can be done in the BCS theory. The entropy of a system of fermionic quasiparticles, in this case Cooper pairs, is:\n\nformula_64\n\nwhere formula_65 is the Fermi-Dirac distribution formula_66 with formula_67\nand\n\nThe heat capacity is given by formula_72.\nThe last two terms can be calculated:\n\nformula_73\n\nSubstituting this in the expression for the heat capacity and again applying that the sum over formula_27 in the reciprocal space can be replaced by an integral in formula_28 multipied by the density of states formula_76 this yields:\n\nformula_77\n\nTo examine the typical behaviour of the electron heat capacity for species that can transition to the superconducting state, three regions must be defined:\n\n\nFor formula_78 it holds that formula_83 and the electron heat capacity becomes:\n\nformula_84\n\nThis is just the result for a normal metal derived in the section above, as expected since a superconductor behaves as a normal conductor above the critical temperature.\n\nFor formula_80 the electron heat capacity for super conductors exhibits an exponential decay of the form:\nformula_87\n\nAt the critical temperature the heat capacity is discontinuous. This discontinuity in the heat capacity indicates that the transition for a material from normal conducting to superconducting is a second order phase transition.\n\nMore recent research has found that since both the Fermi function formula_10 and the electronic density of states formula_90 vary with formula_91, a more exact expression for formula_92 is the following equation at given formula_91\n\nformula_94.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31735764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31735764", "title": "Energy in Poland", "text": "Energy in Poland\n\nIn 2009, Poland was world's 9th largest hard coal producer. The country is also the second largest coal consumer in Europe behind Germany.\n\nIn 2009 Poland produced 78 megatonnes (Mt) of hard coal and 57 Mt of brown coal.\n\nCoal mining has far-reaching effects on local water resources. Coal mining requires large amounts of water. Mining activities have dropped the water level of Lake Ostrowskie by almost two meters in the Kuyavia–Pomerania and the lakes in the Powidz Landscape Park. According to Poznań's University of Agriculture, the water drainage in the Kleczew brown coal mining areas has formed craters in the area.\n\nIn April 2008, five thousand people demonstrated in Kruszwica to protect cultural heritage and the nature reserve at Lake Gopło. This was the first protest of its kind in the country's history. Gopło Millennium Park (\"Nadgoplański Park Tysiąclecia\") is protected by the European Union's Natura 2000 program and includes a major bird sanctuary. The Tomisławice opencast mine (less than 10 kilometers away from the Kruszwica mine) was due to open in 2009.\n\nThe Bełchatów Power Station in the Łódź region supplies almost 20% of Poland's energy. It is the largest brown coal power plant in Europe.\n\nIn 2008, a net 143 TWh of electricity were produced in coal-based power plants.\n\nA binding European Union resolution, the Renewable Energy Directive 2009, stipulates a 15% renewable energy target for total energy use in Poland by 2020. According to the Polish National Renewable Energy Action Plan, the 2020 figure is set to exceed this target by 0.5% at 15.5% of overall energy use, broken down as 19.1% of total electricity consumption, 17% in the heating and cooling sector, and 10.1% in the transport sector. \n\nAs of 2014 - 2015 renewable energy provided around 10% of total primary energy supply in Poland as well as around 13% of total electricity generation. \n\nAs of year end 2014 Poland had achieved an 11.45% share of renewable energy use as a percentage of overall energy usage. The overall 2014 share breaks down as 13.95% of the heating and cooling sector, 12.40% of the electricity sector and 5.67% of the transport sector.\n\nAs of 2015 Biomass and waste was the largest source of renewable energy in Poland providing an estimated 8.9% of total primary energy supply (TPES) in that year and an estimated 6.1% of electricity generation.\n\nSolid biomass is the most important source by volume, providing fuel for heat and power plants or consumed directly for industrial or household heat requirements. Biogasses are also used in heat and power plants as well whilst waste is mainly used as a fuel in industry. In 2014 0.7 Mtoe of biofuels were used in transport, 81% as biodiesel and 19% as biogasoline, making up 5% of the total energy consumption in the transport sector in 2014.\n\nWind power is estimated to have provided 6.6% of total electricity generation in 2015.\n\nThe Polish NREAP plan is targeting 6,700 MW of wind power by 2020 whilst EWEA's 2009 forecast suggests a higher wind capacity of 10–12 GW is possible.\n\nThe Polish government had plans to reach 2,000 MW in wind power capacity and a 2.3% share of wind generation in domestic energy consumption by 2010. By the end of 2010, the capacity stood at 1,107 MW. If Poland had the same wind power density as Denmark, there would have been 23 GW of wind power by the end of 2008.\n\nIn 2014 there were 2,364 MW installed capacity of hydroelectric power as well as 1,406 MW pumped storage capacity. In 2015 hydroelectricity generated approximately 1.1% of total electricity in Poland.\n\nSolar power expanded slowly reaching 4.2 MW by 2013. After 2013 installed capacity began to rise more quickly reaching 195.7 MW by 2016.\n\nThe PM10 warning limit is 300 μg/m3 in Poland, whereas it is 80 in Paris.\n\nPoland opposed the 2009 EU proposal to support developing countries in applying measures against global warming, at a cost of 5-7 billion € during the years 2010–2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3001832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3001832", "title": "Environmental Change Network", "text": "Environmental Change Network\n\nThe Environmental Change Network (ECN) was established in 1992 by the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC) to monitor long-term environmental change and its effects on ecosystems at a series of sites throughout Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Measurements made include a wide range of physical, chemical and biological variables.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17904209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17904209", "title": "Eolica Cogealac Wind Farm", "text": "Eolica Cogealac Wind Farm\n\nThe Eolica Cogealac Wind Farm is a proposed wind power project in Cogealac, Constanţa County, Romania. It will consist of eleven individual wind farms connected together. It will have 224 individual wind turbines with a nominal output of around 2 MW which will deliver up to 448 MW of power, enough to power over 300,000 homes, with a capital investment required of approximately US$600 million.\n"}
{"id": "13219331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13219331", "title": "Export Land Model", "text": "Export Land Model\n\nThe Export Land Model, or Export-Land Model, refers to work done by Dallas geologist Jeffrey Brown, building on the work of others, and discussed widely on The Oil Drum. It models the decline in oil exports that result when an exporting nation experiences both a peak in oil production and an increase in domestic oil consumption. In such cases, exports decline at a far faster rate than the decline in oil production alone.\n\nThe Export Land Model is important to petroleum importing nations because when the rate of global petroleum production peaks and begins to decline, the petroleum available on the world market will decline much more steeply than the decline in total production.\n\nAs world oil exports approach (or pass) a global peak, the price of exported oil increases and further stimulates domestic economic growth and oil consumption in Export-Land countries, creating a positive feedback process between declining exports and higher prices. Eventually, however, the level of export decline outpaces the increasing oil price, slowing domestic growth. In some cases, an Export Land eventually becomes a net importer. It is unlikely that an Export Land would constrain domestic consumption to help importing countries. In fact, many oil exporting countries subsidize domestic consumption below price levels defined by the world market.\n\nGiven a hypothetical oil producing country (known by the model as an Export Land) that produces , consumes , and exports to oil consuming countries around the world, the model would be applied as such (illustrated in the graph above):\n\nSeveral real-world nations exhibit the characteristics of the Export Land Model as pictured in the image gallery above. These four nations exhibit increasing domestic consumption along with declining production. Indonesia has already shifted from oil exporter to oil importer while Egypt is hovering on the brink. Malaysia and Mexico also have the hallmarks of the Export Land Model.\n\nWithin 5 years, Mexico (the second biggest exporter of oil to the US) may become a net oil importer. Other nations where this may soon happen include Iran, Algeria and Malaysia.\n\nA recent report from CIBC World Markets also indicates that as much as 40% of Saudi Arabia's expected production increases will be offset by rising internal demand by 2010, and Iranian exports will decline by more than 50% for similar reasons. This report indicates that similar market pressures could reduce net worldwide oil exports by (about 3%).\n\nNations may also reach their peak of oil production without fitting the Export Land model. For example, the United Kingdom began importing oil in 2006, after decades of exporting, due to declining production. But as domestic consumption in the UK has remained essentially unchanged for the last 20 years, their rising import levels essentially match their falling production levels. Similarly, Norway's exports began declining in 2001, but at the same rate as their production because their domestic consumption was also not growing. Unlike many exporters, these two countries don't subsidize local market oil price and have high fuel prices by world standards, thus one of the premises of the export land model (that domestic consumption should not be affected by world market price) does not apply to those countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "198824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198824", "title": "Freezing", "text": "Freezing\n\nFreezing is a phase transition in which a liquid turns into a solid when its temperature is lowered below its freezing point. In contrast, solidification is a similar process where a liquid turns into a solid, not by lowering its temperature, but by increasing the pressure that it is under. Despite this technical distinction, the two processes are very similar and the two terms are often used interchangeably.\n\nFor most substances, the melting and freezing points are the same temperature; however, certain substances possess differing solid–liquid transition temperatures. For example, agar displays a hysteresis in its melting point and freezing point. It melts at 85 °C (185 °F) and solidifies from 32 °C to 40 °C (89.6 °F to 104 °F).\n\nMost liquids freeze by crystallization, formation of crystalline solid from the uniform liquid. This is a first-order thermodynamic phase transition, which means that as long as solid and liquid coexist, the temperature of the whole system remains very nearly equal to the melting point due to slow removal of heat when in contact with air, which is a poor heat conductor. Because of the latent heat of fusion, the freezing is greatly slowed down and the temperature will not drop anymore once the freezing starts but will continue dropping once it finishes. Crystallization consists of two major events, nucleation and crystal growth. Nucleation is the step wherein the molecules start to gather into clusters, on the nanometer scale, arranging in a defined and periodic manner that defines the crystal structure. The crystal growth is the subsequent growth of the nuclei that succeed in achieving the critical cluster size.\n\nIn spite of the second law of thermodynamics, crystallization of pure liquids usually begins at a lower temperature than the melting point, due to high activation energy of homogeneous nucleation. The creation of a nucleus implies the formation of an interface at the boundaries of the new phase. Some energy is expended to form this interface, based on the surface energy of each phase. If a hypothetical nucleus is too small, the energy that would be released by forming its volume is not enough to create its surface, and nucleation does not proceed. Freezing does not start until the temperature is low enough to provide enough energy to form stable nuclei. In presence of irregularities on the surface of the containing vessel, solid or gaseous impurities, pre-formed solid crystals, or other nucleators, heterogeneous nucleation may occur, where some energy is released by the partial destruction of the previous interface, raising the supercooling point to be near or equal to the melting point. The melting point of water at 1 atmosphere of pressure is very close to 0 °C (32 °F, 273.15 K), and in the presence of nucleating substances the freezing point of water is close to the melting point, but in the absence of nucleators water can supercool to −40 °C (−40 °F, 233 K) before freezing. Under high pressure (2,000 atmospheres) water will supercool to as low as −70 °C (−94 °F, 203 K) before freezing.\n\nFreezing is almost always an exothermic process, meaning that as liquid changes into solid, heat and pressure are released. This is often seen as counter-intuitive, since the temperature of the material does not rise during freezing, except if the liquid were supercooled. But this can be understood since heat must be continually removed from the freezing liquid or the freezing process will stop. The energy released upon freezing is a latent heat, and is known as the enthalpy of fusion and is exactly the same as the energy required to melt the same amount of the solid.\n\nLow-temperature helium is the only known exception to the general rule. Helium-3 has a negative enthalpy of fusion at temperatures below 0.3 K. Helium-4 also has a very slightly negative enthalpy of fusion below 0.8 K. This means that, at appropriate constant pressures, heat must be \"added\" to these substances in order to freeze them.\n\nCertain materials, such as glass and glycerol, may harden without crystallizing; these are called amorphous solids. Amorphous materials, as well as some polymers, do not have a freezing point, as there is no abrupt phase change at any specific temperature. Instead, there is a gradual change in their viscoelastic properties over a range of temperatures. Such materials are characterized by a glass transition that occurs at a glass transition temperature, which may be roughly defined as the \"knee\" point of the material's density vs. temperature graph. Because vitrification is a non-equilibrium process, it does not qualify as freezing, which requires an equilibrium between the crystalline and liquid state.\n\nSome substances, such as water and bismuth, expand when frozen.\n\nMany living organisms are able to tolerate prolonged periods of time at temperatures below the freezing point of water. Most living organisms accumulate cryoprotectants such as anti-nucleating proteins, polyols, and glucose to protect themselves against frost damage by sharp ice crystals. Most plants, in particular, can safely reach temperatures of −4 °C to −12 °C. Certain bacteria, notably \"Pseudomonas syringae\", produce specialized proteins that serve as potent ice nucleators, which they use to force ice formation on the surface of various fruits and plants at about −2 °C. The freezing causes injuries in the epithelia and makes the nutrients in the underlying plant tissues available to the bacteria.\n\nThree species of bacteria, \"Carnobacterium pleistocenium\", as well as \"Chryseobacterium greenlandensis\" and \"Herminiimonas glaciei\", have reportedly been revived after surviving for thousands of years frozen in ice.\n\nMany plants undergo a process called hardening, which allows them to survive temperatures below 0 °C for weeks to months.\n\nThe nematode \"Haemonchus contortus\" can survive 44 weeks frozen at liquid nitrogen temperatures. Other nematodes that survive at temperatures below 0 °C include \"Trichostrongylus colubriformis\" and \"Panagrolaimus davidi\". Many species of reptiles and amphibians survive freezing. See cryobiology for a full discussion.\n\nHuman gametes and 2-, 4- and 8-cell embryos can survive freezing and are viable for up to 10 years, a process known as cryopreservation.\n\nExperimental attempts to freeze human beings for later revival are known as cryonics.\n\nFreezing is a common method of food preservation that slows both food decay and the growth of micro-organisms. Besides the effect of lower temperatures on reaction rates, freezing makes water less available for bacterial growth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24054799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24054799", "title": "GREEN Cell Shipping", "text": "GREEN Cell Shipping\n\nThe GREEN cell shipping concept is a new concept for powering merchant shipping vessels using containerized power units and a global logistics chain to manage these containers. GREEN cell stands for Global Renewable Electrical Energy Network cell. The concept resulted from a thought experiment process involving engineers working for the ABB Group that took place on March 13, 2009 in Oslo, Norway. The concept was subsequently introduced in an ABB magazine, and remains under development, as part of an open innovation process.\n\nThe propulsion of merchant ships is responsible for approximately 4% of global carbon-dioxide emissions. The industry itself estimated its carbon footprint at 3.3% in 2007. The industry responded officially as early as 2003 by calling for measures to limit or reduce the emissions from international shipping. In order to envision solutions to this challenge, a team of engineers and consultants associated with ABB set up a thought experiment that would pose the question: \"How could you power the commercial fleet without fossil fuels?\" The core team consisted of three electrical engineers: Jaakko Aho, Jukka Varis and Klaus Vänska, all of Finland. This group laid down a core set of design principles around fossil-free marine propulsion, and described a hypothetical system that was later called the GREEN Cell shipping concept.\n\nThe GREEN Cell is at the core of the shipping concept. Each GREEN cell is envisaged as a container-sized source of electricity, based on inherent chemical energy (battery), in addition to solar energy and wind energy. Each cell provides electricity to the ship's network. The electrical power potential of each GREEN cell depends on the sum of the power in the battery, the size of solar panel area obtained, the efficiency of the solar panel and the efficiency of the wind power system.\n\nInitial designs for a GREEN cell proposed that each GREEN Cell opens two doors length-wise, thus covering neighboring containers as well. The inside of the doors, and much of the exposed surface of the container are mounted with solar panels. Thus, a typical container ship could cover its entire surface with solar energy panels. One GREEN Cell produces as much as of solar panel surface area. This equates to roughly 12 kW. 100 such containers could thus conceivably produce 1.2 MW. Alternate calculations show that such a system would retrieve 500 Watts per m. Multiplied by the approximately 20,000 m of surface area on a large container ship like Emma Maersk would give 10 MW of solar energy.\n\nAn extendable vertical-axis windmill emerges from one side of the container. A vertical-axis windmill is preferred as it introduces less resistance to the forward motion of the ship and disturbs ship stability less than horizontal-axis windmills.\n\nThe battery of the GREEN cell takes up the remainder of the space in the container. Designers describe the potential battery as either an optimised lithium-ion battery, or a sodium-sulfur one.\n\nLike a ship that takes refrigerated containers, a GREEN Cell-equipped ship would have an electrical connection to a number of\ncontainers. In this case, instead of feeding electricity to the refrigerated units, the ship would pull power from the containers. The GREEN Cell ship carries as many as several hundred GREEN Cells, adding weight to the ship and subtracting from available cargo space. Conversely, the GREEN Cell ship forgoes a typical diesel engine (weighing roughly 75 tons), a frequency converter (weighing roughly 25 tons) and petroleum fuel tanks (as much as 3000 tons).\n\nA network of floating power stations placed along major trade routes either recharge a ship’s GREEN Cells, or simply switch them out (like a traditional container port). These create electricity from green sources like wave power generators, wind turbines, a flywheel-driving water density column, solar panels and current-driven turbines.\n\nContainer terminals carry a large supply of ready-to-go GREEN Cells. These switch out GREEN Cells on ships just like a container port\nunloads and reloads a container ship. Thus the GREEN Cell system serves both deepsea merchant marine traffic and coastal cabotage.\n"}
{"id": "34643756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34643756", "title": "George Singer", "text": "George Singer\n\nGeorge John Singer (1786–1817) was an English early pioneer of electrical research, noted for his publications and for lectures delivered privately and at the Russell Institution.\n\nGeorge John Singer was son of Thomas Singer, and younger brother of Samuel Weller Singer. In early life he was engaged in his mother's business of artificial-flower making. Every spare moment, however, he devoted to scientific study, more particularly to the investigation of electricity and electromagnetism, then little known. He was a friend of and worked with Andrew Crosse, another early electrical pioneer. Singer built, almost unassisted, a large room at the back of his mother's house in Prince's Street, Cavendish Square, where he gave courses of lectures on electricity and kindred subjects. Among his audience were Michael Faraday and Sir Francis Ronalds. \n\nSinger published \"Elements of Electricity and Electro-chemistry\", London, 1814, a work of considerable contemporary importance, which was translated into French (Paris, 1817), into Italian (Milan, 1819), and into German (Breslau, 1819). He also contributed several papers to the \"Philosophical Magazine\" from 1813 to 1815, of which a list is given in Ronalds's \"Catalogue of Books on Electricity, Magnetism\", &c.\n\nSinger made almost the whole of his apparatus himself, and introduced several enhancements. He invented an improved gold-leaf electrometer that was used widely for many years. A key feature was a new mode of insulating the wire connected to the leaves through the cap of the bottle, which he announced in 1811 and described in his book. Ronalds later put on record that the idea for the insulation was his.\n\nSinger died, unmarried, of pulmonary tuberculosis, induced by overwork, on 28 June 1817, at his mother's house.\n\nHe lived in the Old House now known as Coundon Court Academy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53544246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53544246", "title": "Karapınar Renewable Energy Resource Area", "text": "Karapınar Renewable Energy Resource Area\n\nKarapınar Renewable Energy Resource Area (, YEKA) is a proposed photovoltaic power station in Konya Province, central Turkey.\n\nTo be built at the YEKA area of Karapınar district in Konya Province, the plant will have 1,000 MW installed power. With this capacity, it will be one of the world's largest solar power plant of its kind. The project includes annual production of 500 MWp photovoltaic solar modules and a R&D Center.\n\nThe tender for the construction was won on March 20, 2017 by a consortium of the Turkish Kalyon Group and South Korea's Hanwha, which offered the lowest kW·h-price with 6.99 US cent valid for an energy purchase term of 15 years. The amount of the investment is expected to exceed US$1.3 billion. It is planned that more than 1,500 people will be employed in the project. The start of the energy production is scheduled for the end of 2018. When completed, the solar power station will annually generate 1,700 GW·h of electrical energy, sufficient to supply 600,000 households.\n"}
{"id": "19365485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19365485", "title": "Korea Gas Corporation", "text": "Korea Gas Corporation\n\nKorea Gas Corporation (KOGAS) is a South Korean public natural gas company that was established by the Korean government in 1983. KOGAS has grown into the largest LNG-importing company in the world and operates four LNG regasification terminals and 4,824 km of natural gas pipelines in South Korea.\n\nYoung-Doo Kim has been Acting president of KOGAS since 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "1797179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797179", "title": "Lift powder", "text": "Lift powder\n\nLift powder is simply granulated black powder (also known as gunpowder).\n"}
{"id": "205540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205540", "title": "List of meteor showers", "text": "List of meteor showers\n\nNamed meteor showers recur at approximately the same dates each year. They appear to \"radiate\" from a certain point in the sky (the radiant) and vary in the speed, frequency and brightness of the meteors. As of March 2016, there are 95 known meteor showers.\n\nNote: Dates are accurate for 2017. The dates will 'move' based upon the year in the Leap year cycle. Also, this list includes showers with radiants in both the northern and southern hemispheres. There is some overlap, but generally showers whose radiants have positive declinations are best seen from the northern hemisphere, and those with negative declinations are best observed from the southern hemisphere.\n\nThis list of meteor streams and peak activity times is based on data from the International Meteor Organization while most of the parent body associations are from Gary W. Kronk book, \"Meteor Showers: A Descriptive Catalog\", Enslow Publishers, New Jersey, , and from Peter Jenniskens's book, \"Meteor Showers and Their Parent Comets\", Cambridge University Press, Cambridge UK, .\n"}
{"id": "38001891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38001891", "title": "List of pipeline accidents in the United States (1950–1974)", "text": "List of pipeline accidents in the United States (1950–1974)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3497302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3497302", "title": "Maypan coconut palm", "text": "Maypan coconut palm\n\nMaypan is an F1 hybrid coconut [palm] that was developed by the Research Department of the Coconut Industry Board of Jamaica to be resistant to Lethal Yellowing disease. It was created experimentally in 1962 by cross pollinating two varieties of \"Cocos nucifera\" and, after extensive disease exposure and yield performance trials, was named and released in 1974 when a suitable method of mass controlled pollination had been devised. A \"Dwarf\"x\"Tall\" hybrid, the Malayan Dwarf seed parents, grown in an isolated seed garden and kept constantly emasculated, are regularly pollinated by blowing a mixture of talc and pollen collected from selected palms of a variety known locally as Panama Tall. This combination gives the Maypan an LY disease resistance approaching that of the Malayan Dwarf and much of the windstorm tolerance of the Panama Tall. It grows to approximately 18 meters in height. The LY resistance of the Maypan, of both of its parents, and of other coconut varieties generally, has been called into question since the 1990s but Maypan, and F1 hybrids using the same types of parents, are still the planting material of choice in the Caribbean and Latin American countries where LY occurs.\n"}
{"id": "1984833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1984833", "title": "Mist, Oregon", "text": "Mist, Oregon\n\nMist is an unincorporated community in Columbia County, Oregon, United States. Formerly called Riverside, the place was renamed in 1888 for the atmospheric conditions of the Nehalem Valley. The first land claims in the area had been made circa 1870. The original Riverside post office was closed in 1975.\nOn July 6, 2001, the Mist store, which was built in 1874, caught fire and was destroyed. Until then, it was the oldest continuously operating business in Oregon, offering food and hardware and displaying historic newspaper clippings and antique logging equipment on the walls.\n\nMist is a crossroads community where Oregon Route 47 turns north to Clatskanie, and a pioneer trail (Burn Road) crossed the Nehalem River and went south to Vernonia. It is the eastern terminus of Oregon Route 202. The Nehalem River valley widens between Mist and Jewell and was favored by the Native American tribes of the area for hunting; it was later favored by early European American settlers for agriculture. Although the area is now sparsely settled, it is notable for having the largest operating sawmill in Columbia County and also geological conditions lending themselves to natural gas storage. Mist contains one of the very few, and therefore very valuable, natural gas storage areas in the Pacific Northwest. It operates unobtrusively on a hill near Mist. It is controlled by NW Natural (formerly Northwest Natural Gas) and is connected by several pipelines, including a and a pipeline along the Nehalem Highway.\n\nEarlier in the 20th century, Mist had a logging camp next to a railroad used by the Kerry Timber and Logging Company. The remains of the camp were discovered in 2008 and 2009. Though still important in terms of logging, the population today is sparse, and there is no longer a railroad.\n\n"}
{"id": "51937029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51937029", "title": "Oilfield scale inhibition", "text": "Oilfield scale inhibition\n\nOilfield scale inhibition is the process of preventing the formation of scale from blocking or hindering fluid flow through pipelines, valves, and pumps used in oil production and processing. Scale inhibitors (SIs) are a class of specialty chemicals that are used to slow or prevent scaling in water systems. Oilfield scaling is the precipitation and accumulation of insoluble crystals (salts) from a mixture of incompatible aqueous phases in oil processing systems. is a common term in the oil industry used to describe solid deposits that grow over time, blocking and hindering fluid flow through pipelines, valves, pumps etc. with significant reduction in production rates and equipment damages. Scaling represents a major challenge for flow assurance in the oil and gas industry. Examples of oilfield scales are calcium carbonate (limescale), iron sulfides, barium sulfate and strontium sulfate. Scale inhibition encompasses the processes or techniques employed to treat scaling problems.\n\nThe three prevailing water-related problems that upset oil companies today are corrosion, gas hydrates and scaling in production systems. The reservoir water has a high composition of dissolved minerals equilibrated over millions of years at constant physicochemical conditions. As the reservoir fluids are pumped from the ground, changes in temperature, pressure and chemical composition shift the equilibria and cause precipitation and deposition of sparingly soluble salts that build up over time with the potential of blocking vital assets in the oil production setups. Scaling can occur at all stages of oil/gas production systems (upstream, midstream and downstream) and causes blockages of well-bore perforations, casing, pipelines, pumps, valves etc. Severe scaling issues have been reported in Russia and certain North Sea production systems.\n\nTwo main classifications of scales are known; inorganic and organic scales and the two types are mutually inclusive, occurring simultaneously in the same system, referred to as mixed scale. Mixed scales may result in highly complexly structured scales that are difficult to treat. Such scales require aggressive, severe and sometimes costly remediation techniques. Paraffin wax, asphaltenes and gas hydrates are the most often encountered organic scales in the oil industry. This article focuses on the simplest and common form of scales encountered; inorganic scales.\n\nInorganic scales refer to mineral deposits that occur when the formation water mixes with different brines such as injection water. The mixing changes causes reaction between incompatible ions and changes the thermodynamic and equilibrium state of the reservoir fluids. Supersaturation and subsequent deposition of the inorganic salts occur. The most common types of inorganic scales known to the oil/gas industry are carbonates and sulfates; sulfides and chlorites are often encountered. \n\nWhile, the solubility of most inorganic salts (NaCl, KCl, ...) increases with temperature (endothermic dissolution reaction) , some inorganic salts such as calcium carbonate and calcium sulfate have also a retrograde solubility, i.e., their solubility decreases with temperature. In the case of calcium carbonate, it is due to the degassing of CO whose solubility decreases with temperature as it is the case for most of the gases (exothermic dissolution reaction in water). In the case of calcium sulfate, the reason is that the dissolution reaction of calcium sulfate itself is exothermic and therefore is favored when the temperature decreases (then, the dissolution heat is more easily evacuated, see Le Chatelier's principle). In other terms, the solubility of calcium carbonate and calcium sulfate increases at low temperature and decreases at high temperature, as it is also the case for calcium hydroxide (portlandite) often referred as a didactic case study to explain the reason of retrograde solubility. \n\nWater, noted for its high solvation power can dissolve certain gases such as carbon dioxide (CO) to form aqueous CO. Under the right conditions of temperature and/or pressure, HO and CO molecules react to yield carbonic acid (HCO) whose solubility increases at low temperature and high pressure. The slightest changes in pressure and temperature dissolves HCO in water according to equation (3) to form hydronium and bicarbonate (HCO) ions.\n\nThe two reactions (2) and (4) describe the equilibrium between bicarbonate ions (HCO), which are highly soluble in water and calcium carbonate (CaCO) salt. According to Le Chatelier's principle, drilling operations and extraction of the oil from the well bore decreases the pressure of the formation and the equilibrium shifts to the right (3) to increase the production of CO to offset the change in pressure. After years of oil production, wells may experience significant pressure drops resulting in large CaCO deposits as the equilibrium shifts to offset the pressure changes.\n\nSulfates of Group (II) metal ions (M), generally decrease in solubility down the group. The most difficult scales to remove are those of Barium sulfate because of its high insolubility forming very hard scale deposits. A general representation of the reaction is summarized in reaction:\n\n5. M + SO → MSO\n\nSulfate scale usually forms when formation water and injected seawater mix together. The relationship between these and the degree of supersaturation is crucial in estimating the amount of sulfate salts that will precipitate in the system. Seawater has a high concentration of sulfate ions and mixing with formation water with lots of Ca and other M ions in the formation water. Severe problems with sulfate scale are common in reservoirs where seawater has been injected to enhance oil recovery.\n\nDue to its relatively high solubility in water, Calcium sulfate is the easiest sulfate scale to remove chemically as compared to strontium and barium sulfate. Scale crystals are initially dispersed in production systems until accumulation of stable crystals of insoluble sulfates and scale growth occur at nucleation centers. Uneven pipeline surfaces and production equipment such as pumps and valves cause rapid scale growth to levels that can block pipelines.\n\nThe scaling-tendency of an oil-well can be predicted based on the prevailing conditions such as pH, temperature, pressure, ionic strength and the mole fraction of CO in the vapor and aqueous phases. For instance the saturation index for CaCO scale is calculated using the formula;\n\nF= {[Ca][CO]}/K\n\nWhere F is the scale saturation ratio, defined as the ratio of the activity product to the solubility product of the salt. Activity is defined as the product of the activity coefficients and the concentrations of Ca and SO ions. The ionic strength is a measure of the concentration of the dissociated ions dissolved in water also called as “total dissolved solids” (TDS).\n\nDifferent oilfield scale remediation techniques are known but majority are based on three basic themes:\nThe first two methods may be used for short-term treatment and effective for mild-scaling conditions, however, continuous injection or chemical scale squeeze treatment with SIs have been proven over the years to be the most efficient and cost-effective preventative technique.\n\nScale inhibitors are specialty chemicals that are added to oil production systems to delay, reduce and/or prevent scale deposition. acrylic acid polymers, maleic acid polymers and phosphonates have been used extensively for scale treatment in water systems due to their excellent solubility, thermal stability and dosage efficiency. In the water treatment industry, the major classes of SIs have inorganic phosphate, organophosphorous and organic polymer backbones and common examples are PBTC (phosphonobutane-1,2,4-tricarboxylic acid), ATMP (amino-trimethylene phosphonic acid) and HEDP (1-hydroxyethylidene-1,1-diphosphonic acid), polyacrylic acid (PAA), phosphinopolyacrylates (such as PPCA), polymaleic acids (PMA), maleic acid terpolymers (MAT), sulfonic acid copolymers, such as SPOCA (sulfonated phosphonocarboxylic acid), polyvinyl sulfonates. Two common oilfield mineral SIs are Poly-Phosphono Carboxylic acid (PPCA) and Diethylenetriamine- penta (methylene phosphonic acid) (DTPMP).\n\nInhibition of calcium carbonate scale deposition and crystal studies of its polymorphs have been conducted. Different SIs are designed for specific scaling conditions and biodegradability properties. The inhibitor molecules essentially bind ions in aqueous phase of production fluids that could potentially precipitate as scales. For instance, to bind positively charged ions in the water, anions must be present in the inhibitor molecular backbone structure and vice versa. Group (II) metal ions are commonly sequestered by SIs with the following functionalities;\n\n- Phosphonate ions (-POH)\n\n- Phosphate ions (-OPOH)\n\n- Phosphonate ions (-POH)\n\n- Sulphonate ions (-SO)\n\n- Carboxylate ions (-CO)\n\nA SI with a combination of two or more of these functional groups is more efficient in managing scale problems. Usually the sodium salts of the carboxylic derivatives are synthesized as the anionic derivatives and are known to be the most effective due to their high solubilities. Interactions of these functional groups tend to prevent the crystal growth sites using dissociated or un-dissociated groups. The dissociation state is determined by the pH of the system, hence knowledge of the pKa values of the chemicals are important for different pH environments. Again, the inhibition efficiency of the SI depends on its compatibility with other production chemicals such as corrosion inhibitors.\n\nGenerally, the environmental impacts of SIs are complicated further by combination of other chemicals applied through exploratory, drilling, well-completion and start-up operations. Produced fluids, and other wastes from oil and gas operations with high content of different toxic compounds are hazardous and harmful to human health, water supplies, marine and freshwater organisms. For instance trails of increased turbidity resulting from oil and gas exploratory activities on the eastern shelf of Sakhalin in Russia have been reported with consequential adverse effects on salmon, cod and littoral amphipods.\n\nEfforts to develop more environmentally friendly SIs have been made since the late 1990s and an increasing number of such SIs are becoming commercially available. Recent environmental awareness over the past 15 years has resulted in the production and application of more environmentally friendly SIs, otherwise called 'Green Scale Inhibitors' (GSI). These GSIs are designed to have reduced bio-accumulating and high biodegradability properties and therefore reduce pollution of the waters around oil production systems. Phosphate ester SIs, commonly employed for treating calcium carbonate scales are known to be environmentally friendly but poor inhibition efficiency. Release of SIs containing Nitrogen and Phosphorus distorts the natural equilibrium of the immediate water body with adverse effects on aquatic life.\n\nAnother alternative, polysaccharide SIs meet the requirements for environmentally friendly materials; they contain no Phosphorus or Nitrogen and are noted for their non-toxic, renewable, and biodegradable properties. Carboxymethyl inulin (CMI), which is isolated from the roots of Inula helenium has been used in oil exploration and its very low toxicity and crystal growth inhibition power has been reported for treating calcite scales. Examples of poorly biodegradable SIs such as the amino-phosphonate and acrylate-based SIs are being phased-out by stringent environmental regulations as demonstrated in the North sea by Norway zero discharge policy.\n"}
{"id": "46263484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46263484", "title": "Orange County Parks and Recreation", "text": "Orange County Parks and Recreation\n\nOrange County Parks and Recreation is the county park department in Orange County, Florida, United States. It maintains and operates a number of parks, multiuse trails, and community recreation centers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13904737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13904737", "title": "Orri Vigfússon", "text": "Orri Vigfússon\n\nOrri Vigfússon (10 July 1942 – 1 July 2017) was an Icelandic entrepreneur and environmentalist. His stated objective was to \"restore the abundance of wild salmon that formerly existed on both sides of the North Atlantic\".\n\nIn 2004 \"Time\" magazine named him a \"European Hero\". He was awarded the Goldman Environmental Prize in 2007 for his efforts on saving endangered species.\n\nHe died on 1 July 2017 in Reykjavik of lung cancer at the age of 74.\n"}
{"id": "30700069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30700069", "title": "Otto Redlich", "text": "Otto Redlich\n\nOtto Redlich (November 4, 1896 – August 14, 1978) was an Austrian physical chemist and chemical engineer who is best known for his development of equations of state like Redlich-Kwong equation. Besides this he had numerous other contributions to science. He won the Haitinger Prize of the Austrian Academy of Sciences in 1932.\n\nRedlich was born 1896 in Vienna, Austria. He went to school in the Döbling district of Vienna. After finishing school in 1915 he joined the Austrian Hungarian Army and served as artillery officer mainly at the Italian front in World War I. He was wounded and became a prisoner of war in August 1918. He returned to Vienna after the war in 1919. He studied chemistry and received his doctorate in 1922 for work on the equilibrium of nitric acid, nitrous and nitric oxide. Redlich worked for one year in industry and than joined Emil Abel at the University of Vienna. He became lecturer in 1929 and professor in 1937. During this time he developed the Teller-Redlich isotopic product rule. After the Anschluss in March 1938, Austria had become a part of Nazi Germany and with the implementation of the Nuremberg Laws all government employed Jews lost their jobs, including academics. Like many other scientist Redlich tried to leave the Nazi governed Austria.\n\nWith the help of the Emergency Committee in Aid of Displaced Foreign Scholars he was able to emigrate to the United States in December 1938. He gave lectures at several universities and met Gilbert N. Lewis and Linus Pauling. Harold Urey helped him to get a position in Washington State College. In 1945 he left the College and started to work in industry, at Shell Development Co. in Emeryville, California. He published his paper on the improvement of the ideal gas equation in 1949, today known as the Redlich–Kwong equation of state.\nIn 1962 Redlich retired from Shell and received a position at University of California at Berkeley. He died in California in 1978.\n\n"}
{"id": "211041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211041", "title": "Palmer drought index", "text": "Palmer drought index\n\nThe Palmer drought index, sometimes called the Palmer drought severity index and often abbreviated PDSI, is a measurement of dryness based on recent precipitation and temperature. It was developed by meteorologist Wayne Palmer, who first published his method in the 1965 paper \"Meteorological Drought\" for the Office of Climatology of the U.S. Weather Bureau.\n\nThe Palmer Drought Index is based on a supply-and-demand model of soil moisture. Supply is comparatively straightforward to calculate, but demand is more complicated as it depends on many factors, not just temperature and the amount of moisture in the soil but also hard-to-calibrate factors including evapotranspiration and recharge rates. Palmer tried to overcome these difficulties by developing an algorithm that approximated them based on the most readily available data, precipitation and temperature.\n\nThe index has proven most effective in determining long-term drought, a matter of several months, but it is not as good with conditions over a matter of weeks. It uses a 0 as normal, and drought is shown in terms of negative numbers; for example, negative 2 is moderate drought, negative 3 is severe drought, and negative 4 is extreme drought. Palmer's algorithm also is used to describe wet spells, using corresponding positive numbers. Palmer also developed a formula for standardizing drought calculations for each individual location based on the variability of precipitation and temperature at that location. The Palmer index can therefore be applied to any site for which sufficient precipitation and temperature data is available.\n\nCritics have complained that the utility of the Palmer index is weakened by the arbitrary nature of Palmer's algorithms, including the technique used for standardization. The Palmer index's inability to account for snow and frozen ground also is cited as a weakness.\n\nThe Palmer index is widely used operationally, with Palmer maps published weekly by the United States Government's National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. It also has been used by climatologists to standardize global long-term drought analysis. Global Palmer data sets have been developed based on instrumental records beginning in the 19th century. In addition, dendrochronology has been used to generate estimated Palmer index values for North America for the past 2000 years, allowing analysis of long term drought trends. It has also been used as a means of explaining the late Bronze Age collapse.\n\nIn the US, regional Palmer maps are featured on the cable channel Weatherscan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24998521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24998521", "title": "Parakneria cameronensis", "text": "Parakneria cameronensis\n\nParakneria cameronensis is a benthopelagic species of tropical fish. The species can grow up to 8.3 cm, and are commonly found in the Congo River. The fish has a projectile upper jaw and subterminal mouth. The species' common name is Cameroon shellear.\n"}
{"id": "169115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169115", "title": "Preternatural", "text": "Preternatural\n\nThe preternatural or praeternatural is that which appears outside or beside (Latin \"\") the natural. It is \"suspended between the mundane and the miraculous\".\n\nIn theology, the term is often used to distinguish marvels or deceptive trickery, often attributed to witchcraft or demons, from the purely divine power of the genuinely supernatural to violate the laws of nature. In the early modern period the term was used by scientists to refer to abnormalities and strange phenomena of various kinds that seemed to depart from the norms of nature.\n\nMedieval theologians made a clear distinction between the natural, the preternatural and the supernatural. Thomas Aquinas argued that the supernatural consists in \"God’s unmediated actions\"; the natural is \"what happens always or most of the time\"; and the preternatural is \"what happens rarely, but nonetheless by the agency of created beings...Marvels belong, properly speaking, to the realm of the preternatural.\" Theologians, following Aquinas, argued that only God had the power to disregard the laws of nature that he has created, but that demons could manipulate the laws of nature by a form of trickery, to deceive the unwary into believing they had experienced real miracles. According to historian Lorraine Daston,\n\nAlthough demons, astral intelligences, and other spirits might manipulate natural causes with superhuman dexterity and thereby work marvels, as mere creatures they could never transcend from the preternatural to the supernatural and work genuine miracles.\n\nBy the 16th century, the term \"preternatural\" was increasingly used to refer to demonic activity comparable to the use of magic by human adepts: The Devil, \"being a natural Magician … may perform many acts in ways above our knowledge, though not transcending our natural power.\" According to the philosophy of the time, preternatural phenomena were not contrary to divine law, but used hidden, or occult powers that violated the \"normal\" pattern of natural phenomena.\n\nWith the emergence of early modern science, the concept of the preternatural increasingly came to be used to refer to strange or abnormal phenomena that seemed to violate the normal working of nature, but which were not associated with magic and witchcraft. This was a development of the idea that preternatural phenomena were fake miracles. As Daston puts it, \"To simplify the historical sequence somewhat: first, preternatural phenomena were demonized and thereby incidentally naturalized; then the demons were deleted, leaving only the natural causes.\" The use of the term was especially common in medicine, for example in John Brown's \"A Compleat Treatise of Preternatural Tumours\" (1678), or William Smellie's \"A Collection of Preternatural Cases and Observations in Midwifery\" (1754).\n\nIn the 19th century the term was appropriated in anthropology to refer to folk beliefs about fairies, trolls and other such creatures which were not thought of as demonic, but which were perceived to affect the natural world in unpredictable ways. According to Thorstein Veblen, such preternatural agents were often thought of as forces somewhere between supernatural beings and material processes. \"The preternatural agency is not necessarily conceived to be a personal agent in the full sense, but it is an agency which partakes of the attributes of personality to the extent of somewhat arbitrarily influencing the outcome of any enterprise, and especially of any contest.\"\n\nThe linguistic association between individual agents and unexplained or unfortunate circumstances remains. Many people attribute occurrences that are known to be material processes, such as \"gremlins in the engine\", a \"ghost in the machine\", or attributing motives to objects: \"the clouds are threatening\". The anthropomorphism in our daily life is a combination of the above cultural stems, as well as the manifestation of our pattern-projecting minds.\n\nIn 2011, Penn State Press began publishing a learned journal entitled \"Preternature: Critical and Historical Studies on the Preternatural\". Edited by Kirsten Uszkalo and Richard Raiswell, the journal is dedicated to publishing articles, reviews and short editions of original texts that deal with conceptions and perceptions of the preternatural in any culture and in any historical period. The journal covers \"magics, witchcraft, spiritualism, occultism, prophecy, monstrophy, demonology, and folklore.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32579314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32579314", "title": "Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme", "text": "Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme\n\nRajaolibanda Diversion Scheme or RDS is an irrigation project located across River Tungabhadra in Jogulamba Gadwal district of Telangana , Kurnool district of Andhra pradesh and Raichur district of Karnataka. It is an inter-state barrage on the Tungabhadra river to supply water to Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh states. The full reservoir level of this barrage is 332.32 m MSL.\n\nRDS was taken up on river Tungabhadra and the head works and the left bank canal was mostly completed by 1956. In the year 2013, Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-2 allocated four (4) tmcft water for construction of RDS right bank canal in Kurnool district.\n\nRDS left canal provides irrigation water in Raichur district and Mahbubnagar district of Telangana. The Bachawat Tribunal had allocated 17.1 tmcft to its left canal of which 15.9 tm cft was exclusively meant for Mahabubnagar district. The RDS left canal has been a source of sorrow to the Mahabubnagar farmers because it is hardly giving them 8 to 10 tmcft against their entitlement of 15.9 tmcft.\n\nThe Rajolibanda barrage is not receiving adequate continuous flows due to excessive water utilization in its catchment area in Karnataka. It would be a permanent solution to connect the upstream catchment area (near at 475 m MSL) via 20 km long tunnel with the Narayanpur reservoir which is located across the adjacent Krishna River. It would also provide additional water to bring more area under irrigation in uplands of Raichur & Mahboobnagar districts and low lands of Kurnool district. Reliable Krishna river water can be supplied instead of unreliable Tungabhadra river water to the existing Tungabhadra Left bank canal in Raichur district, the existing Rajolibanda left bank canal and the existing 150 years old K. C. Canal. In addition to taking up Rajolibanda right bank canal construction, a new barrage /weir ( ) would be constructed across the Tungabhadra river located upstream of Rajolibanda barrage to divert the augmented Krishna river water for the additional irrigation in Kurnool district. Thus substantial Tungabhadra reservoir water would be saved for utilization in upstream new projects and reliable water supply is ensured to existing projects.013\n43\n\n"}
{"id": "23805617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23805617", "title": "Reliance Natural Resources Limited", "text": "Reliance Natural Resources Limited\n\nReliance Natural Resources Limited is an Indian energy company involved in sourcing, supply and transportation of gas, coal and liquid fuels. The company was incorporated on 24 March 2000 and went public on 25 July 2005. It is a part of the Reliance Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group. Reliance Natural Resources has merged with Reliance Power.\n\n"}
{"id": "10786653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10786653", "title": "Rhenium diboride", "text": "Rhenium diboride\n\nRhenium diboride (ReB) is a synthetic superhard material. It was first synthesized in 1962 and re-emerged recently due to hopes of achieving high hardness comparable to that of diamond. The reported ultrahigh hardness has been questioned, although this is a matter of definition as in the initial test rhenium diboride was able to scratch diamond.\n\nThe production method of this material does not involve high pressures as with other hard synthetic materials, such as cubic boron nitride, which makes production cheap. However, rhenium itself is an expensive metal.\n\nThe compound is formed from a mixture of rhenium, noted for its resistance to high pressure, and boron, which forms short, strong covalent bonds with rhenium.\n\nReB can be synthesized by at least three different methods at standard atmospheric pressure: solid-state metathesis, melting in an electric arc, and direct heating of the elements.\n\nIn the metathesis reaction, rhenium trichloride and magnesium diboride are mixed and heated in an inert atmosphere and the magnesium chloride byproduct is washed away. Excess boron is needed to prevent formation of other phases such as ReB and ReB.\n\nIn the arc-melting method, rhenium and boron powders are mixed and a large electric current is passed through the mixture, also in an inert atmosphere.\n\nIn the direct reaction method, the rhenium-boron mixture is sealed in a vacuum and held at a high temperature over a longer period (1000 °C for five days).\n\nAt least the last two methods are capable of producing pure ReB without any other phases, as confirmed by X-ray crystallography.\n\nThe hardness of ReB exhibits considerable anisotropy because of its hexagonal layered structure (see structure model), being greatest along the \"c\" axis. In contrast to the scratch hardness test, its indentation hardness (H ~ 22 GPa) is much lower than that of diamond and is comparable to that of tungsten carbide, silicon carbide, titanium diboride or zirconium diboride.\n\nReB slowly reacts with water, converting into a hydroxide.\n\nTwo factors contribute to the high hardness of ReB: a high density of valence electrons, and an abundance of short covalent bonds. Rhenium has one of the highest valence electron densities of any transition metal (476 electrons/nm, compare to 572 electrons/nm for osmium and 705 electrons/nm for diamond). The addition of boron requires only a 5% expansion of the rhenium lattice, because the small boron atoms fill the existing spaces between the rhenium atoms. Furthermore, the electronegativities of rhenium and boron are close enough (1.9 and 2.04 on the Pauling scale) that they form covalent bonds in which the electrons are shared almost equally.\n\n"}
{"id": "46266901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46266901", "title": "SAES Getters", "text": "SAES Getters\n\nSAES Getters S.p.A. is an Italian joint stock company, established in 1940. It is the parent company of the SAES industrial group, which focusses its business on the production of components and systems in advanced materials patented by the same company and used in various industrial and medical applications.\n\nIn 1940 the company S.A.E.S. (Società Apparecchi Electrici e Scientifici) was formed in Florence at the initiative of Ernesto Gabrielli, an engineer from Livorno and two other shareholders. The impetus for the foundation of the company was the discovery by Gabrielli of a new method for the production of getters, with nickel lids to protect barium plastics, in order to prevent the phenomenon of oxidation.\nS.A.E.S. initially devoted itself to producing time clocks and a barium-magnesium-aluminium alloy. After a few years, it transferred its headquarters to Milan and began to produce electrical resistance heaters.\n\nIn 1946, the Della Porta and Canale families entered the shareholding structure and in 1949, Paolo della Porta joined the company, subsequently taking over management in 1952. A period began that was distinguished by major innovations, supported by the Research and Development Laboratory, notably the invention of ring-shaped getters in barium-aluminium alloy. The company expanded into Europe, appointing its first agents in France, Germany and England.\n\nS.A.E.S. continued to invest in scientific research during a period of major change in the electronics sector, characterised by the extensive spread of transistors, to the detriment of vacuum tubes intended for radio and television reception and transmission. In 1957 S.A.E.S. filed a patent for getters for television cathode tubes, first for black and white and then for colour television, launching production on an industrial scale.\n\nThis period was characterised by company consolidations, innovations and commercial successes, including at international level. S.A.E.S. also commissioned its first mass production plant.\nAt the “3rd Symposium on Residual Gases”, held in Rome in 1967, S.A.E.S. presented a new configuration of getter, consisting of a metallic tape coated with St 101 alloy, obtained from the combination of zirconium and aluminium. This technological evolution allowed the company to execute new products with non-evaporable getters (NEG) and getter pumps. The non-evaporable getter pumps (NEG pumps) are devices which have the same purpose as barium getters but do not require an evaporation process; they have extremely high absorptive capacity and are still used today, in more advanced forms, in applications requiring a high or ultra-high vacuum.\n\nExploiting its own technological skills in the field of metallurgy, during these two decades, S.A.E.S. developed new alloys (such as the St 707 alloy in zirconium, vanadium and iron) and was involved in projects on the catalytic module and purifiers of inert gases.\n\nIt also pursued its internationalisation with the creation of subsidiaries with commercial responsibilities in the United Kingdom (1966), United States (1969), Canada (1969) and Japan (1973). Other commercial representative offices were opened in France (1978) and in Germany (1979). In 1977, SAES Getters USA Inc. was founded in Colorado Springs, the first foreign subsidiary with a manufacturing mission for satisfying the growing demand for porous non-evaporable getters from the US military industry.\n\nS.A.E.S. continued to grow by virtue of the progressive launch of new products and the expansion of its production structure, both through the construction of new plants and acquisitions of other companies. In 1978, it had grown to 300 employees, redefined its company structure and changed its name, from S.A.E.S. to SAES Getters.\n\nIn 1982, a plant was commissioned in Nanjing, in China, for the production of barium getters, the installations for which were supplied directly by SAES Getters.\n\nThe objective during this period was the vertical integration of production (or the internal management of all processes), which over the years would become one of the group's strong points. From this perspective, in 1984, SAES Metallurgia was founded in Avezzano (Province of L’Aquila), for the production of barium and barium-aluminium alloy, SAES Engineering, for the execution of instruments and devices necessary for the metallurgical processing of alloys, and SAES Gemedis dedicated to the production of Gemedis (Getter Mercury Dispenser), i.e. alloys containing mercury. Over the course of the 1990s, the three companies merged into SAES Advanced Technologies S.p.A., adding to their own portfolio numerous other articles and devices used constantly in Hi-Tech applications requiring a vacuum or ultrahigh vacuum.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, SAES Getters concluded two important acquisitions in the United States in the field of barium getters for cathode tubes and created Getters Corporation of America.\n\nIn 1986, SAES Getters was listed on the stock exchange, with the financial resources raised allowing it to pursue its acquisitions policy, most notably, towards the end of the decade, the Californian company Cryolab Inc., subsequently renamed SAES Pure Gas Inc., within which it still develops and produces gas purification products, principally for the semiconductor industry.\n\nIn 1989, Massimo della Porta, Paolo's son, began to work for SAES Metallurgia. Over the years, Massimo took on increasingly important roles until he was appointed Chairman of SAES Getters in 2009.\n\nAt the start of the 1990s, the entire activity of the group was encompassed in three sectors: barium getters for the television industry, non-evaporable getters, NEG pumps and metal dispensers for industrial and scientific applications, gas purifiers and analyzers for the semiconductor industry. Over the decade, production companies were established in South Korea and China and commercial companies in Singapore and Taiwan.\n\nIn 1996, in order to meet the new requirements of the company in the fields of production and research, the new headquarters was inaugurated in Lainate. During the same year, SAES Getters became the first Italian company to be listed on Nasdaq, the most important equity market in the US for high-tech companies (on which the company remained until 2003, the year in which it requested a delisting).\n\nDuring the second half of the 1990s, with the succession of technologies in the field of televisions, SAES Getters, sensing the importance of new market developments, expanded its own field of production and focused on technologies widespread in the flat display sector, in particular, mercury dispensers for backlight lamps for LCD (Liquid Crystal Display) for monitors and televisions.\n\nIn 2001, Paolo della Porta was appointed “Entrepreneur of the Year” by Ernst & Young, with this recognition consolidating the image of the company at international level.\n\nOverall, this decade signalled a notable change for the entire company, with its structure reorganised through new acquisitions and company policy evolving significantly, which, characterised by innovation and diversification, focused increasingly on expanding its technology portfolio in advanced materials. This strategy led SAES Getters to specialise in the execution of components and systems for high-tech industrial and medical applications, allowing the company to survive unscathed after the collapse of a number of key markets, such as barium getters for the television industry or back lights for LCD screens. Furthermore, during this period, the company developed highly innovative technologies and processes for the depositing of getters on silicon wafers for so-called MEMS (Micro Electro-Mechanical Systems), miniaturised devices intended for various applications, such as sensors and gyroscopes.\n\nThe company entered the shape memory alloy sector (SMA), becoming a key reference for the sector and the first producer of SMA devices and materials for use in industry. In this way, SAES acquired Memory Metalle GmbH (renamed Memry GmbH in 2010), a German company with metallurgical and application skills relating to SMA in the field of medicine. It also acquired two companies in the United States: Memry Corporation, specialising in the production of SMA devices for medical use and the business division of Special Metal Corporation, dedicated to the production of NiTiNol (renamed SAES Smart Materials). NiTiNol is the commercial name of shape memory alloys used in medicine and the SAES group is one of the major international suppliers of this material. SAES then launched the production of SMA wires and springs for industrial applications at its Italian facilities, with these now concentrated at its headquarters in Lainate.\n\nIn this context, in 2011, together with the German company Alfmeier, SAES Getters established the 50-50 joint venture in Germany, Actuator Solutions GmbH, to boost its own competitiveness at international level in the fields of development, production and marketing of SMA-wire-based actuators. In 2014, the joint venture won the “German Innovation Award” in the medium-sized company category.\n\nThe group is also strengthening its presence in the field of purification, with the acquisition of a division of the company Power & Energy (Ivyland, Pennsylvania, United States), with the aim of expanding its production of palladium membrane purifiers.\n\nAt the same time, the Research and Innovation area of the company is developing innovative hybrid technologies, which integrate getter materials into polymer matrices, initially concentrating on the development of dispensable absorbers for organic electronics applications, in particular OLED (Organic Light Emitting Diodes) light displays and sources. From 2013 onwards, further developments of the polymer technological platform have permitted the group to execute new functional polymer compounds, with the properties of interacting with the gases and optical, mechanical and surface modifying functions, according to the requirements and applications of interest, including implantable medical devices, food packaging and the field of energy storage (lithium batteries and super condensers).\n\nIn 2010, it also established the company ETC, the fruit of a collaboration between CNR and SAES Getters (the majority shareholder). An innovative research programme was launched within ETC for the development of OLET technology (Organic Light Emitting Transistor).\n\nThe group is mainly focused on advanced alloys, advanced inorganic materials, polymer-matrix composites and thin metal films.\n\nSAES Getters exploits solid-state chemistry to manage multiphase solid-state reactions among one or more solid phases. Evaporable getters, mercury dispensers, alkali metal dispensers are examples of products based on solid-state reactions.\n\nThe company has been dealing for decades with vacuum metallurgy (arc melting and vacuum induction melting) and powder metallurgy (milling technologies, sieving, powders classification and mixing, screen printing and sintering). In particular, by the available sintering technologies, processes under high vacuum or inert atmosphere and controlled conditions of temperature, time (traditional sintering) and pressure (hot uniaxial pressing and cold isostatic pressing) can be performed allowing to obtain either highly porous either full dense sintered bodies.\n\nSMA are materials that can exhibit the property of remembering their original shape even after being severely deformed. Thanks to their intrinsic shape memory and superelastic effects, they represent an enabling technology for implantable medical devices and actuators. SAES Getters deals with designing new materials on a theoretical level, developing new alloys on an industrial scale as well as modeling and manufacturing new components.\n\nIt is a bundle of technologies grown at SAES to develop advanced polymeric materials mainly integrating getter properties but also rapidly expanding towards other functionalities. These materials can be in the form of dispensable polymer composites, functional compounds and functional coatings for a wide variety of applications, from consumer electronics to implantable medical devices to food packaging and special packaging in general.\n\nThe SAES group manages the purification of gases, either under ultra-high vacuum, either at atmospheric pressure. It deals with enabling the generation of ultra-high pure gases, characterized by impurity concentrations below 1 part-per-billion (ppb).\n\nThis is the oldest and strongest technology owned by the SAES group, which deals with the design of both ultra-high vacuum pumps and pure metal sources, based on a variety of vacuum gas dynamics codes and on the building of proprietary high-vacuum manufacturing tools, ranging from thin film deposition tools to vacuum reactors.\n\nThe company developed a range of technologies enabling the deposition of pure metals and alloys on several kinds of substrates. Sputtering is normally used to deposit high surface area getter alloys onto silicon wafers, used by the vacuum MEMS industry as cap wafers, to create and maintain a well-defined gas composition inside MEMS cavities.\n\nThe SAES group's organizational structure is composed of three units, each of them dedicated to different technologic solutions: Industrial Applications Business Unit, Shape Memory Alloys (SMA) Business Unit, Business Development Unit.\n\nThe SAES group provides advanced technological solutions to the electronic devices of a wide range of markets, including the aeronautical, medical, industrial, security, defence and basic research sectors. The products developed in this division include getters of different types and formats, alkaline metal dispensers, cathodes and materials for thermal management. The offered products are employed in various devices such as X-ray tubes, microwave tubes, solid state lasers, electron sources, photomultipliers and radiofrequency amplification systems.\n\nSAES Getters produces getters of different types and formats that are employed in various devices such as night vision devices based on infrared sensors, pressure sensors, gyroscopes for navigation systems and MEMS devices of various nature.\n\nThe company supplies getters and metal dispensers for lamps.\n\nThe company produces pumps based on nonevaporable getter materials (NEG), which can be applied in both industrial and scientific fields (as an example, in analytical instrumentation, in vacuum systems for research activities and in particle accelerators).\n\nThe solutions for vacuum thermal insulation include NEG products for cryogenic applications, for solar collectors both for home applications and operating at high temperatures and for thermos. Furthermore, SAES is particularly active in the development of innovative getter solutions for vacuum insulating panels for the white goods industry.\n\nIn the microelectronics market, SAES Getters develops and sells advanced gas purification systems for the semiconductors industry and for other industries which use pure gases in their processes. Through the subsidiary SAES Pure Gas, Inc., the group offers a full range of purifiers for bulk gases and special gases.\n\nThe SAES group produces semi-finished products, components and devices in shape memory alloy, and a special alloy made of nickel-titanium (NiTinol), characterized by super-elasticity (a property that allows the material to withstand even large deformations, returning then to its original form) and by the property of assumine predefined forms when subjected to heat treatment.\n\nNiTinol is used in a wide range of medical devices, in particular in the cardiovascular field. In fact, its superelastic properties are ideal for the manufacturing of the devices used in the field of non-invasive surgery, such as catheters to navigate within the cardiovascular system and self-expanding devices (aortic and peripheral stents or heart valves).\n\nThe shape memory alloy is used in the production of a variety of devices (valves, proportional valves, actuators, release systems, mini-actuators). The use of SMA devices in the industrial field goes across the board of many application areas such as domotics, the white goods industry, the automotive business and consumer electronics.\n\nThe SAES group has developed in the past few years the platform of Functional Polymer Composites, where getter functionalities as well as optical and mechanical features are incorporated into polymer matrices. Originally designed and used for the protection of OLED (Organic Light Emitting Diodes) displays and lamps, these new materials are now being tailored also for new areas such as food packaging and implantable medical devices among others.\n\nRelying on the same FPC platform, the group is also active in the field of new generation electrochemical devices for energy storage, such as super-capacitors and lithium batteries, primarily intended for the market of hybrid and electric engines.\n\nThe main shareholders are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "858097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=858097", "title": "Salt lake", "text": "Salt lake\n\nA salt lake or saline lake is a landlocked body of water that has a concentration of salts (typically sodium chloride) and other dissolved minerals significantly higher than most lakes (often defined as at least three grams of salt per litre). In some cases, salt lakes have a higher concentration of salt than sea water; such lakes can also be termed \"hypersaline lakes\". An alkalic salt lake that has a high content of carbonate is sometimes termed a \"soda lake\".\n\nSaline lake classification:\n\nSalt lakes form when the water flowing into the lake, containing salt or minerals, cannot leave because the lake is endorheic (terminal). The water then evaporates, leaving behind any dissolved salts and thus increasing its salinity, making a salt lake an excellent place for salt production. High salinity will also lead to a unique halophilic flora and fauna in the lake in question; sometimes, in fact, the result may be an absence or near absence of life near the salt lake.\n\nIf the amount of water flowing into a lake is less than the amount evaporated, the lake will eventually disappear and leave a dry lake (also called playa or salt flat).\n\nBrine lakes consist of water that has reached salt saturation or near saturation (brine), and may also be heavily saturated with other materials. \n\nMost brine lakes develop as a result of high evaporation rates in an arid climate with a lack of an outlet to the ocean. The high salt content in these bodies of water may come from minerals deposited from the surrounding land. Another source for the salt may be that the body of water was formerly connected to the ocean. While the water evaporates from the lake, the salt remains. Eventually, the body of water will become brine.\n\nBecause of the density of brine, swimmers are more buoyant in brine than in fresh or ordinary salt water. Examples of such brine lakes are the Dead Sea and the Great Salt Lake.\n\nBodies of brine may also form on the ocean floor at cold seeps. These are sometimes called brine lakes, but are more frequently referred to as brine pools. It is possible to observe waves on the surface of these bodies.\n\nMan-made bodies of brine are created for edible salt production. These can be referred to as brine ponds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20533716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20533716", "title": "Sam (1986 film)", "text": "Sam (1986 film)\n\nSam is a 1986 American short documentary film directed by Aaron D. Weisblatt. It focuses on Sam Phelps, a New York State farmer who is opposed to the destruction of a nearby watershed, and argues for better planning and land management. The film was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary Short.\n"}
{"id": "19110811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19110811", "title": "Trefftz plane", "text": "Trefftz plane\n\nThe Trefftz plane is a plane located at an infinite distance downstream of the aircraft, which is perpendicular to the wake.\n\n"}
{"id": "10236016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10236016", "title": "Wildpoldsried", "text": "Wildpoldsried\n\nWildpoldsried is a municipality in the district of Oberallgäu in Bavaria in Germany. The village has been recognized for its exceptional achievements in renewable energy production and in reducing its carbon footprint.\n\nThe earliest known reference to Wildpoldsried dates to 1392, when it was mentioned in documents relating to the sale of the Cloud Mountain Castle. Later, it was the seat of the Lower and Upper courts of the Abbey Kempten, a Benedictine Monastery. Secularization took place in 1803, and the municipality was formalized in 1818, in accordance with the laws of the Kingdom of Bavaria.\n\nIn 1997, people of Wildpoldsried, in some cases acting as individuals, began a series of projects that produce renewable energy. The first efforts were wind turbines and biomass digesters for cogeneration of heat and power. In the time since, new work has included a number of energy conservation projects, more wind and biomass use, small hydro plants, photovoltaic panels on private houses, and district heating. Tied to this are ecological flood control and wastewater systems.\n\nToday, the effects of this are an unforeseen level of prosperity resulting in construction of nine new community buildings, including a school, gymnasium, and community hall, complete with solar panels. There are three companies operating four biogas digesters with a fifth under construction. There are seven windmills with two more on the way. One hundred and ninety private households are equipped with solar, which pays them dividends. The district heating network has 42 connections. There are three small hydro power plants. By 2011, Wildpoldsried produced 321 percent more energy than it needs and generated 4.0 million Euro in annual revenue. At the same time, there was a 65% reduction in the town’s carbon footprint. Three years later, the village was producing five times the energy it consumed.\n\n"}
{"id": "8871380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8871380", "title": "Wind transducer", "text": "Wind transducer\n\nA wind transducer is a device used by sailors to receive a real-time measurement of wind speed and direction. A wind transducer is usually mounted on the masthead of a sailing boat and is occasionally used by power boats too. The wind speed and direction measurements are more critical to sailing boats than to power boats. Sailors rely on the wind speed and direction to help with navigation and pilotage. These devices can be calibrated to measure the true wind speed and the apparent wind speed (speed that a sailor would 'feel'). Sailing boats can sail at a maximum of 45 degrees close to the wind and will sail faster on a reach than when at closest to the wind.\n\nWind transducers are usually wired to the cock or head, although 'wireless' versions are becoming steadily more popular due to the reduced installation time required.\n"}
