{"id": "2134645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134645", "title": "Agrarian People's Union", "text": "Agrarian People's Union\n\nThe Agrarian People's Union (, \"Zemedelski Naroden Sajuz\", ZNS), until 2006 known as the Bulgarian Agrarian People's Union – People's Union (Balgarski Zemedelski Naroden Sajuz – Naroden Sajuz, BZNS-NS), is a conservative agrarian party in Bulgaria. \n\nIt was founded in 1996 by a faction of the Bulgarian Agrarian People's Union led by Anastasia Dimitrova-Moser. It contested the parliamentary election in 1997 and 2001 within the center-right United Democratic Forces. In 2005 it was part of the Bulgarian People's Union, that won at the legislative elections, 25 June 2005, 5.7% of the popular vote and 13 out of 240 seats.\n\nA considerable group around the former party leader Anastasia Dimitrova-Moser left the ZNS in 2008 and founded the United Agrarians.\n\nThe party is a former observer of the Centrist Democrat International (CDI).\n\n"}
{"id": "20753376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20753376", "title": "All call", "text": "All call\n\nAn all call is a general term for a broadcast message. In particular, it may be used to refer to an automated phone notification system that will quickly call individuals with a recorded message in the event of a weather-related school closing or emergency situation.\n\nAn example of an ALL-CALL in a school would be, \"Please excuse the interruption, please report to the Auditorium at this time. Thank you.\" \n\nOn a Norstar system, you can make an \"ALL-CALL\" by entering Feature 60 BOTH ALL. This will broadcast a message throughout the entire campus. \n\nOn Panasonic systems, you can make an \"ALL-CALL\" by entering the numbers 339. This activates the entire campus' paging devices.\n\nAn \"ALL-CALL\" function may also be referred to as a \"PAGE\".\n"}
{"id": "5371744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5371744", "title": "Association of Municipalities of Ontario", "text": "Association of Municipalities of Ontario\n\nThe first meeting of an enduring municipal association was held in Hamilton on September 6, 1899. The name \"Ontario Municipal Association\" was chosen, and it was agreed that there would be annual meetings, or \"oftener if need be, upon the call of the executive committee\", so that both appointed and elected representatives of municipalities could discuss common concerns. A constitution for the organization was drawn up, officers elected and the mandate decided ‑ to establish regular meetings between the association and the government to speak to, and to influence legislation.\n\nThe Association of Municipalities of Ontario was created through the merger and reconstitution of the Ontario Municipal Association and the Ontario Association of Mayors and Reeves on June 22, 1972. Further organizational change continued to be discussed in the late 1970s when exploratory meetings were held between AMO and two other major municipal organizations which also existed at that time: The Rural Ontario Municipal Association and The Association of Counties and Regions. Discussions were also held with affiliated associations: The Organization of Small Urban Municipalities (OSUM), The Association of District Municipalities, The Federation of Northern Ontario Municipalities (FONOM), and The Northwestern Ontario Municipal Association (NOMA).\n\nIn February 1980, an Association Review Committee was struck and presented its report in June 1980. A new association of municipal representatives was proposed, consisting of five sections, \"restructured to ensure accurate representation of the positions of the different types of municipalities in the province\". The newly constituted Association of Municipalities of Ontario came into being on January 1, 1982. In May 1990 AMO became formally incorporated without share capital. AMO's constitution was re‑formulated into governing By‑law No. 1. The By‑law has been amended a number of times to implement significant changes to the Association.\n\nThe mandate of the organization is to support and enhance strong and effective municipal government in Ontario. It promotes the value of the municipal level of government as a vital and essential component of Ontario and Canada's political system.\n\nThe Mandate is delivered in a variety of ways. Of particular importance is the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between AMO and the Province. The MOU provides the opportunity for municipal input and reaction to provincial policy ideas (pre-consultation) so that they are fully informed as part of any provincial policy making process. The MOU also includes a Protocol that obligates the Province to consult with AMO and municipalities on matters that are of a federal-provincial nature that could affect municipal services and finances. The Protocol also sets out the Province's commitment to pursue a federal-provincial-municipal framework where municipalities have a 'seat at the federal-provincial table.'\" \n\nThe activities of AMO support both its Mandate and Vision Statement. AMO develops policy positions and reports on issues of general interest to municipal governments; conducts ongoing liaison with provincial government elected and non-elected representatives; informs and educates governments, the media and the public on municipal issues; markets innovative and beneficial services to the municipal sector; and maintains a resource centre on issues of municipal interest. The Association's Annual Meeting is held in August and is combined with a comprehensive conference program.\n\nThe governing body of the Association is the Board of Directors, elected every two years at the Association's Annual Meeting. The Board comprise 43 elected and non-elected municipal representatives which meets five times per year. An Executive Committee of the Board, responsible for the business of the Association between Board of Director meetings, meets monthly.\n\nAMO hosts many foreign delegates who wish to learn about starting a similar local government organization and our business and information services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2847", "title": "Aung San Suu Kyi", "text": "Aung San Suu Kyi\n\nAung San Suu Kyi (; ; born 19 June 1945) is a Burmese politician, diplomat, author, and Nobel Peace Prize laureate (1991). She is the leader of the National League for Democracy and the first and incumbent State Counsellor, a position akin to a prime minister. She is also the first woman to serve as Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the President's Office, for Electric Power and Energy, and for Education. From 2012 to 2016 she was an MP for Kawhmu Township to the House of Representatives.\n\nThe youngest daughter of Aung San, Father of the Nation of modern-day Myanmar, and Khin Kyi, Aung San Suu Kyi was born in Rangoon, British Burma. After graduating from the University of Delhi in 1964 and the University of Oxford in 1968, she worked at the United Nations for three years. She married Michael Aris in 1972, with whom she had two children. Aung San Suu Kyi rose to prominence in the 1988 Uprisings, and became the General Secretary of the National League for Democracy (NLD), which she had newly formed with the help of several retired army officials who criticized the military junta. In the 1990 elections, NLD won 81% of the seats in Parliament, but the results were nullified, as the military refused to hand over power, resulting in an international outcry. She had, however, already been detained under house arrest before the elections. She remained under house arrest for almost 15 of the 21 years from 1989 to 2010, becoming one of the world's most prominent political prisoners.\n\nHer party boycotted the 2010 elections, resulting in a decisive victory for the military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party. Aung San Suu Kyi became a Pyithu Hluttaw MP while her party won 43 of the 45 vacant seats in the 2012 by-elections. In the 2015 elections, her party won a landslide victory, taking 86% of the seats in the Assembly of the Union – well more than the 67 percent supermajority needed to ensure that its preferred candidates were elected President and Second Vice President in the Presidential Electoral College. Although she was prohibited from becoming the President due to a clause in the constitution – her late husband and children are foreign citizens – she assumed the newly created role of State Counsellor, a role akin to a Prime Minister or a head of government. Aung San Suu Kyi's honours include the Nobel Peace Prize, which she won in 1991. \"Time Magazine\" named her one of the \"Children of Gandhi\" and his spiritual heir to non-violence.\n\nSince ascending to the office of State Counsellor, Aung San Suu Kyi has drawn criticism from many countries, organisations and figures over her inaction to the persecution of the Rohingya people in Rakhine State and refusal to accept that Myanmar's military has committed massacres. Under her leadership, Myanmar has also drawn international criticism for prosecutions of journalists.\n\n\"Aung San Suu Kyi\", like other Burmese names, includes no surname, but is only a personal name, in her case derived from three relatives: \"Aung San\" from her father, \"Suu\" from her paternal grandmother, and \"Kyi\" from her mother Khin Kyi.\n\nThe Burmese refer to her as Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. \"Daw\", literally meaning \"aunt\", is not part of her name but is an honorific for any older and revered woman, akin to \"Madam\". Burmese sometimes address her as Daw Suu or Amay Suu (\"Mother Suu\").\n\nAung San Suu Kyi was born on 19 June 1945 in Rangoon (now Yangon), British Burma. According to Peter Popham, she was born in a small village outside Rangoon called Hmway Saung. Her father, Aung San, founded the modern Burmese army and negotiated Burma's independence from the British Empire in 1947; he was assassinated by his rivals in the same year. She grew up with her mother, Khin Kyi, and two brothers, Aung San Lin and Aung San Oo, in Rangoon. Aung San Lin died at the age of eight, when he drowned in an ornamental lake on the grounds of the house. Her elder brother emigrated to San Diego, California, becoming a United States citizen. After Aung San Lin's death, the family moved to a house by Inya Lake where Aung San Suu Kyi met people of various backgrounds, political views and religions. She was educated in Methodist English High School (now Basic Education High School No. 1 Dagon) for much of her childhood in Burma, where she was noted as having a talent for learning languages. She speaks four languages: Burmese, English, French and Japanese. She is a Theravada Buddhist.\nSuu Kyi's mother, Khin Kyi, gained prominence as a political figure in the newly formed Burmese government. She was appointed Burmese ambassador to India and Nepal in 1960, and Aung San Suu Kyi followed her there. She studied in the Convent of Jesus and Mary School in New Delhi, and graduated from Lady Shri Ram College, a constituent college of the University of Delhi in New Delhi, with a degree in politics in 1964. Suu Kyi continued her education at St Hugh's College, Oxford, obtaining a B.A. degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics in 1967, graduating with a third and M.A. degree in politics in 1968. After graduating, she lived in New York City with family friend Ma Than E, who was once a popular Burmese pop singer. She worked at the United Nations for three years, primarily on budget matters, writing daily to her future husband, Dr. Michael Aris. On 1 January 1972, Aung San Suu Kyi and Aris, a scholar of Tibetan culture and literature, living abroad in Bhutan, were married. The following year she gave birth to their first son, Alexander Aris, in London; their second son, Kim, was born in 1977. Between 1985 and 1987, Aung San Suu Kyi was working toward an M.Phil. degree in Burmese literature as a research student at SOAS, the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London. She was elected as an Honorary Fellow of St Hugh's in 1990. For two years, she was a Fellow at the Indian Institute of Advanced Studies (IIAS) in Shimla, India. She also worked for the government of the Union of Burma.\n\nIn 1988, Aung San Suu Kyi returned to Burma, at first to tend for her ailing mother but later to lead the pro-democracy movement. Aris' visit in Christmas 1995 turned out to be the last time that he and Aung San Suu Kyi met, as Aung San Suu Kyi remained in Burma and the Burmese dictatorship denied him any further entry visas. Aris was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 1997 which was later found to be terminal. Despite appeals from prominent figures and organizations, including the United States, UN Secretary General Kofi Annan and Pope John Paul II, the Burmese government would not grant Aris a visa, saying that they did not have the facilities to care for him, and instead urged Aung San Suu Kyi to leave the country to visit him. She was at that time temporarily free from house arrest but was unwilling to depart, fearing that she would be refused re-entry if she left, as she did not trust the military junta's assurance that she could return.\n\nAris died on his 53rd birthday on 27 March 1999. Since 1989, when his wife was first placed under house arrest, he had seen her only five times, the last of which was for Christmas in 1995. She was also separated from her children, who live in the United Kingdom, but starting in 2011, they have visited her in Burma.\n\nOn 2 May 2008, after Cyclone Nargis hit Burma, Aung San Suu Kyi's dilapidated lakeside bungalow lost its roof and electricity, while the cyclone also left entire villages in the Irrawaddy delta submerged. Plans to renovate and repair the house were announced in August 2009. Suu Kyi was released from house arrest on 13 November 2010.\n\nCoincidentally, when Aung San Suu Kyi returned to Burma in 1988, the long-time military leader of Burma and head of the ruling party, General Ne Win, stepped down. Mass demonstrations for democracy followed that event on 8 August 1988 (8–8–88, a day seen as auspicious), which were violently suppressed in what came to be known as the 8888 Uprising. On 26 August 1988, she addressed half a million people at a mass rally in front of the Shwedagon Pagoda in the capital, calling for a democratic government. However, in September, a new military junta took power.\n\nInfluenced by both Mahatma Gandhi's philosophy of non-violence and more specifically by Buddhist concepts, Aung San Suu Kyi entered politics to work for democratization, helped found the National League for Democracy on 27 September 1988, but was put under house arrest on 20 July 1989. Offered freedom if she left the country, she refused. Despite her philosophy of non-violence, a group of ex-military commanders and senior politicians who joined NLD during the crisis believed that she was too confrontational and left NLD. However, she retained enormous popularity and support among NLD youths with whom she spent most of her time.\n\nDuring her time under house arrest, Aung San Suu Kyi devoted herself to Buddhist meditation practices and to studying Buddhist thought. This deeper interest in Buddhism is reflected in her writings as more emphasis is put on love and compassion. There also emerged more discussion on the compatibility of democracy and Buddhism and the ability of gaining freedom from an authoritarian government through Buddhism.\n\nDuring the crisis, the previous democratically elected Prime Minister of Burma, U Nu, initiated to form an interim government and invited opposition leaders to join him. Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi had signaled his readiness to recognize the interim government. However, Aung San Suu Kyi categorically rejected U Nu's plan by saying \"the future of the opposition would be decided by masses of the people\". Ex-Brigadier General Aung Gyi, another influential politician at the time of the 8888 crisis and the first chairman in the history of the NLD, followed the suit and rejected the plan after Aung San Suu Kyi's refusal. Aung Gyi later accused several NLD members of being communists and resigned from the party.\nIn 1990, the military junta called a general election, in which the National League for Democracy (NLD) received 59% of the votes, guaranteeing NLD 80% of the parliament seats. Some claim that Aung San Suu Kyi would have assumed the office of Prime Minister; in fact, however, as she was not permitted , she did not stand as a candidate in the elections (although being a member of parliament is not a strict prerequisite for becoming prime minister in most parliamentary systems ). Instead, the results were nullified and the military refused to hand over power, resulting in an international outcry. Aung San Suu Kyi was placed under house arrest at her home on University Avenue () in Rangoon, during which time she was awarded the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought in 1990, and the Nobel Peace Prize the year after. Her sons Alexander and Kim accepted the Nobel Peace Prize on her behalf. Aung San Suu Kyi used the Nobel Peace Prize's 1.3 million USD prize money to establish a health and education trust for the Burmese people. Around this time, Aung San Suu Kyi chose non-violence as an expedient political tactic, stating in 2007, \"I do not hold to non-violence for moral reasons, but for political and practical reasons.\"\n\nAung San Suu Kyi was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991. The decision of the Nobel Committee mentions:\n\nIn 1995 Aung San Suu Kyi delivered the keynote address at the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing.\n\nOn 9 November 1996, the motorcade that Aung San Suu Kyi was traveling in with other National League for Democracy leaders Tin Oo and Kyi Maung, was attacked in Yangon. About 200 men swooped down on the motorcade, wielding metal chains, metal batons, stones and other weapons. The car that Aung San Suu Kyi was in had its rear window smashed, and the car with Tin Oo and Kyi Maung had its rear window and two backdoor windows shattered. It is believed the offenders were members of the Union Solidarity and Development Association (USDA) who were allegedly paid 500 kyats (@ USD $0.50) each to participate. The NLD lodged an official complaint with the police, and according to reports the government launched an investigation, but no action was taken. (Amnesty International 120297)\n\nAung San Suu Kyi was placed under house arrest for a total of 15 years over a 21-year period, on numerous occasions, since she began her political career, during which time she was prevented from meeting her party supporters and international visitors. In an interview, she said that while under house arrest she spent her time reading philosophy, politics and biographies that her husband had sent her. She also passed the time playing the piano, and was occasionally allowed visits from foreign diplomats as well as from her personal physician.\n\nAlthough under house arrest, Aung San Suu Kyi was granted permission to leave Burma under the condition that she never return, which she refused: \"As a mother, the greater sacrifice was giving up my sons, but I was always aware of the fact that others had given up more than me. I never forget that my colleagues who are in prison suffer not only physically, but mentally for their families who have no security outside- in the larger prison of Burma under authoritarian rule.\" Her loyalty to the people of Burma and her solidarity with those imprisoned for their pro-democratic acts have earned her deep respect among the Burmese people.\n\nThe media were also prevented from visiting Aung San Suu Kyi, as occurred in 1998 when journalist Maurizio Giuliano, after photographing her, was stopped by customs officials who then confiscated all his films, tapes and some notes. In contrast, Aung San Suu Kyi did have visits from government representatives, such as during her autumn 1994 house arrest when she met the leader of Burma, General Than Shwe and General Khin Nyunt on 20 September in the first meeting since she had been placed in detention. On several occasions during her house arrest, she had periods of poor health and as a result was hospitalized.\n\nThe Burmese government detained and kept Aung San Suu Kyi imprisoned because it viewed her as someone \"likely to undermine the community peace and stability\" of the country, and used both Article 10(a) and 10(b) of the 1975 State Protection Act (granting the government the power to imprison people for up to five years without a trial), and Section 22 of the \"Law to Safeguard the State Against the Dangers of Those Desiring to Cause Subversive Acts\" as legal tools against her. She continuously appealed her detention, and many nations and figures continued to call for her release and that of 2,100 other political prisoners in the country. On 12 November 2010, days after the junta-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP) won elections conducted after a gap of 20 years, the junta finally agreed to sign orders allowing SAung San uu Kyi's release, and Suu Kyi's house arrest term came to an end on 13 November 2010.\n\nThe United Nations (UN) has attempted to facilitate dialogue between the junta and Aung San Suu Kyi. On 6 May 2002, following secret confidence-building negotiations led by the UN, the government released her; a government spokesman said that she was free to move \"because we are confident that we can trust each other\". Aung San Suu Kyi proclaimed \"a new dawn for the country\". However, on 30 May 2003 in an incident similar to the 1996 attack on her, a government-sponsored mob attacked her caravan in the northern village of Depayin, murdering and wounding many of her supporters. Aung San Suu Kyi fled the scene with the help of her driver, Kyaw Soe Lin, but was arrested upon reaching Ye-U. The government imprisoned her at Insein Prison in Rangoon. After she underwent a hysterectomy in September 2003, the government again placed her under house arrest in Rangoon.\n\nThe results from the UN facilitation have been mixed; Razali Ismail, UN special envoy to Burma, met with Aung San Suu Kyi. Ismail resigned from his post the following year, partly because he was denied re-entry to Burma on several occasions. Several years later in 2006, Ibrahim Gambari, UN Undersecretary-General (USG) of Department of Political Affairs, met with Aung San Suu Kyi, the first visit by a foreign official since 2004. He also met with Suu Kyi later the same year. On 2 October 2007 Gambari returned to talk to her again after seeing Than Shwe and other members of the senior leadership in Naypyidaw. State television broadcast Aung San Suu Kyi with Gambari, stating that they had met twice. This was Aung San Suu Kyi's first appearance in state media in the four years since her current detention began.\n\nThe United Nations Working Group for Arbitrary Detention published an Opinion that Aung San Suu Kyi's deprivation of liberty was arbitrary and in contravention of Article 9 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948, and requested that the authorities in Burma set her free, but the authorities ignored the request at that time. The U.N. report said that according to the Burmese Government's reply, \"Daw Aung San Suu Kyi has not been arrested, but has only been taken into protective custody, for her own safety\", and while \"it could have instituted legal action against her under the country's domestic legislation  ... it has preferred to adopt a magnanimous attitude, and is providing her with protection in her own interests\".\n\nSuch claims were rejected by Brig-General Khin Yi, Chief of Myanmar Police Force (MPF). On 18 January 2007, the state-run paper \"New Light of Myanmar\" accused Suu Kyi of tax evasion for spending her Nobel Prize money outside the country. The accusation followed the defeat of a US-sponsored United Nations Security Council resolution condemning Burma as a threat to international security; the resolution was defeated because of strong opposition from China, which has strong ties with the military junta (China later voted against the resolution, along with Russia and South Africa).\n\nIn November 2007, it was reported that Aung San Suu Kyi would meet her political allies National League for Democracy along with a government minister. The ruling junta made the official announcement on state TV and radio just hours after UN special envoy Ibrahim Gambari ended his second visit to Burma. The NLD confirmed that it had received the invitation to hold talks with Suu Kyi. However, the process delivered few concrete results.\n\nOn 3 July 2009, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon went to Burma to pressure the junta into releasing Aung San Suu Kyi and to institute democratic reform. However, on departing from Burma, Ban Ki-moon said he was \"disappointed\" with the visit after junta leader Than Shwe refused permission for him to visit Aung San Suu Kyi, citing her ongoing trial. Ban said he was \"deeply disappointed that they have missed a very important opportunity\".\n\n\nProtests led by Buddhist monks began on 19 August 2007 following steep fuel price increases, and continued each day, despite the threat of a crackdown by the military.\n\nOn 22 September 2007, although still under house arrest, Aung San Suu Kyi made a brief public appearance at the gate of her residence in Yangon to accept the blessings of Buddhist monks who were marching in support of human rights. It was reported that she had been moved the following day to Insein Prison (where she had been detained in 2003), but meetings with UN envoy Ibrahim Gambari near her Rangoon home on 30 September and 2 October established that she remained under house arrest.\n\nOn 3 May 2009, an American man, identified as John Yettaw, swam across Inya Lake to her house uninvited and was arrested when he made his return trip three days later. He had attempted to make a similar trip two years earlier, but for unknown reasons was turned away. He later claimed at trial that he was motivated by a divine vision requiring him to notify her of an impending terrorist assassination attempt. On 13 May, Aung San Suu Kyi was arrested for violating the terms of her house arrest because the swimmer, who pleaded exhaustion, was allowed to stay in her house for two days before he attempted the swim back. Aung San Suu Kyi was later taken to Insein Prison, where she could have faced up to five years confinement for the intrusion. The trial of Aung San Suu Kyi and her two maids began on 18 May and a small number of protesters gathered outside. Diplomats and journalists were barred from attending the trial; however, on one occasion, several diplomats from Russia, Thailand and Singapore and journalists were allowed to meet Aung San Suu Kyi. The prosecution had originally planned to call 22 witnesses. It also accused John Yettaw of embarrassing the country. During the ongoing defence case, Aung San Suu Kyi said she was innocent. The defence was allowed to call only one witness (out of four), while the prosecution was permitted to call 14 witnesses. The court rejected two character witnesses, NLD members Tin Oo and Win Tin, and permitted the defence to call only a legal expert. According to one unconfirmed report, the junta was planning to, once again, place her in detention, this time in a military base outside the city. In a separate trial, Yettaw said he swam to Suu Kyi's house to warn her that her life was \"in danger\". The national police chief later confirmed that Yettaw was the \"main culprit\" in the case filed against Aung San Suu Kyi. According to aides, Aung San Suu Kyi spent her 64th birthday in jail sharing biryani rice and chocolate cake with her guards.\n\nHer arrest and subsequent trial received worldwide condemnation by the UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations Security Council, Western governments, South Africa, Japan and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, of which Burma is a member. The Burmese government strongly condemned the statement, as it created an \"unsound tradition\" and criticised Thailand for meddling in its internal affairs. The Burmese Foreign Minister Nyan Win was quoted in the state-run newspaper \"New Light of Myanmar\" as saying that the incident \"was trumped up to intensify international pressure on Burma by internal and external anti-government elements who do not wish to see the positive changes in those countries' policies toward Burma\". Ban responded to an international campaign by flying to Burma to negotiate, but Than Shwe rejected all of his requests.\n\nOn 11 August 2009 the trial concluded with Suu Kyi being sentenced to imprisonment for three years with hard labour. This sentence was commuted by the military rulers to further house arrest of 18 months. On 14 August, US Senator Jim Webb visited Burma, visiting with junta leader Gen. Than Shwe and later with Suu Kyi. During the visit, Webb negotiated Yettaw's release and deportation from Burma. Following the verdict of the trial, lawyers of Aung San Suu Kyi said they would appeal against the 18-month sentence. On 18 August, United States President Barack Obama asked the country's military leadership to set free all political prisoners, including Aung San Suu Kyi. In her appeal, Aung San Suu Kyi had argued that the conviction was unwarranted. However, her appeal against the August sentence was rejected by a Burmese court on 2 October 2009. Although the court accepted the argument that the 1974 constitution, under which she had been charged, was null and void, it also said the provisions of the 1975 security law, under which she has been kept under house arrest, remained in force. The verdict effectively meant that she would be unable to participate in the elections scheduled to take place in 2010 – the first in Burma in two decades. Her lawyer stated that her legal team would pursue a new appeal within 60 days.\n\nAung San Suu Kyi has received vocal support from Western nations in Europe, Australia and North and South America, as well as India, Israel, Japan the Philippines and South Korea. In December 2007, the US House of Representatives voted unanimously 400–0 to award Aung San Suu Kyi the Congressional Gold Medal; the Senate concurred on 25 April 2008. On 6 May 2008, President George W. Bush signed legislation awarding Aung San Suu Kyi the Congressional Gold Medal. She is the first recipient in American history to receive the prize while imprisoned. More recently, there has been growing criticism of her detention by Burma's neighbours in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, particularly from Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines and Singapore. At one point Malaysia warned Burma that it faced expulsion from ASEAN as a result of the detention of Aung San Suu Kyi. Other nations including South Africa, Bangladesh and the Maldives also called for her release. The United Nations has urged the country to move towards inclusive national reconciliation, the restoration of democracy, and full respect for human rights. In December 2008, the United Nations General Assembly passed a resolution condemning the human rights situation in Burma and calling for Aung San Suu Kyi's release—80 countries voting for the resolution, 25 against and 45 abstentions. Other nations, such as China and Russia, are less critical of the regime and prefer to cooperate only on economic matters. Indonesia has urged China to push Burma for reforms. However, Samak Sundaravej, former Prime Minister of Thailand, criticised the amount of support for Aung San Suu Kyi, saying that \"Europe uses Aung San Suu Kyi as a tool. If it's not related to Aung San Suu Kyi, you can have deeper discussions with Myanmar.\"\n\nVietnam, however, did not support calls by other ASEAN member states for Myanmar to free Aung San Suu Kyi, state media reported Friday, 14 August 2009. The state-run Việt Nam News said Vietnam had no criticism of Myanmar's decision 11 August 2009 to place Aung San Suu Kyi under house arrest for the next 18 months, effectively barring her from elections scheduled for 2010. \"It is our view that the Aung San Suu Kyi trial is an internal affair of Myanmar\", Vietnamese government spokesman Le Dung stated on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In contrast with other ASEAN member states, Dung said Vietnam has always supported Myanmar and hopes it will continue to implement the \"roadmap to democracy\" outlined by its government.\n\nNobel Peace Prize winners (Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the Dalai Lama, Shirin Ebadi, Adolfo Pérez Esquivel, Mairead Corrigan, Rigoberta Menchú, Prof. Elie Wiesel, US President Barack Obama, Betty Williams, Jody Williams and former US President Jimmy Carter) called for the rulers of Burma to release Aung San Suu Kyi in order to \"create the necessary conditions for a genuine dialogue with Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and all concerned parties and ethnic groups in order to achieve an inclusive national reconciliation with the direct support of the United Nations\". Some of the money she received as part of the award helps fund London-based charity Prospect Burma, which provides higher education grants to Burmese students.\n\nIt was announced prior to the 2010 Burmese general election that Aung San Suu Kyi may be released \"so she can organize her party\", However, Aung San Suu Kyi was not allowed to run. On 1 October 2010 the government announced that she would be released on 13 November 2010.\n\nUS President Barack Obama personally advocated the release of all political prisoners, especially Aung San Suu Kyi, during the US-ASEAN Summit of 2009.\n\nThe US Government hoped that successful general elections would be an optimistic indicator of the Burmese government's sincerity towards eventual democracy. The Hatoyama government which spent 2.82 billion yen in 2008, has promised more Japanese foreign aid to encourage Burma to release Aung San Suu Kyi in time for the elections; and to continue moving towards democracy and the rule of law.\n\nIn a personal letter to Aung San Suu Kyi, UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown cautioned the Burmese government of the potential consequences of rigging elections as \"condemning Burma to more years of diplomatic isolation and economic stagnation\".\n\nSuu Kyi has met with many heads of state, and opened a dialog with the Minister of Labor Aung Kyi (not to be confused with Aung San Suu Kyi). She was allowed to meet with senior members of her NLD party at the State House, however these meetings took place under close supervision.\n\nOn the evening of 13 November 2010, Aung San Suu Kyi was released from house arrest. This was the date her detention had been set to expire according to a court ruling in August 2009 and came six days after a widely criticised general election. She appeared in front of a crowd of her supporters, who rushed to her house in Rangoon when nearby barricades were removed by the security forces. Aung San Suu Kyi had been detained for 15 of the past 21 years. The government newspaper \"New Light of Myanmar\" reported the release positively, saying she had been granted a pardon after serving her sentence \"in good conduct\". The New York Times suggested that the military government may have released Suu Kyi because it felt it was in a confident position to control her supporters after the election. The role that Aung San Suu Kyi will play in the future of democracy in Burma remains a subject of much debate.\n\nHer son Kim Aris was granted a visa in November 2010 to see his mother shortly after her release, for the first time in 10 years. He visited again on 5 July 2011, to accompany her on a trip to Bagan, her first trip outside Yangon since 2003. Her son visited again on 8 August 2011, to accompany her on a trip to Pegu, her second trip.\n\nDiscussions were held between Suu Kyi and the Burmese government during 2011, which led to a number of official gestures to meet her demands. In October, around a tenth of Burma's political prisoners were freed in an amnesty and trade unions were legalised.\n\nIn November 2011, following a meeting of its leaders, the NLD announced its intention to re-register as a political party in order to contend 48 by-elections necessitated by the promotion of parliamentarians to ministerial rank. Following the decision, Aung San Suu Kyi held a telephone conference with US President Barack Obama, in which it was agreed that Secretary of State Hillary Clinton would make a visit to Burma, a move received with caution by Burma's ally China. On 1 December 2011, Aung San Suu Kyi met with Hillary Clinton at the residence of the top-ranking US diplomat in Yangon.\n\nOn 21 December 2011, Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra met Aung San Suu Kyi in Yangoon, marking Aung San Suu Kyi's \"first-ever meeting with the leader of a foreign country\".\n\nOn 5 January 2012, British Foreign Minister William Hague met Aung San Suu Kyi and his Burmese counterpart. This represented a significant visit for Aung San Suu Kyi and Burma. Aung San Suu Kyi studied in the UK and maintains many ties there, whilst Britain is Burma's largest bilateral donor.\nDuring Aung San Suu Kyi's visit to Europe, she visited the Swiss parliament, collected her 1991 Nobel Prize in Oslo and her honorary degree from Oxford University.\n\nIn December 2011, there was speculation that Aung San Suu Kyi would run in the 2012 national by-elections to fill vacant seats. On 18 January 2012, Aung San Suu Kyi formally registered to contest a Pyithu Hluttaw (lower house) seat in the Kawhmu Township constituency in special parliamentary elections to be held on 1 April 2012. The seat was previously held by Soe Tint, who vacated it after being appointed Construction Deputy Minister, in the 2010 election. She ran against Union Solidarity and Development Party candidate Soe Min, a retired army physician and native of Twante Township.\n\nOn 3 March 2012, at a large campaign rally in Mandalay, Aung San Suu Kyi unexpectedly left after 15 minutes, because of exhaustion and airsickness.\n\nIn an official campaign speech broadcast on Burmese state television's MRTV on 14 March 2012, Aung San Suu Kyi publicly campaigned for reform of the 2008 Constitution, removal of restrictive laws, more adequate protections for people's democratic rights, and establishment of an independent judiciary. The speech was leaked online a day before it was broadcast. A paragraph in the speech, focusing on the Tatmadaw's repression by means of law, was censored by authorities.\n\nSuu Kyi has also called for international media to monitor the upcoming by-elections, while publicly pointing out irregularities in official voter lists, which include deceased individuals and exclude other eligible voters in the contested constituencies. On 21 March 2012, Aung San Suu Kyi was quoted as saying \"Fraud and rule violations are continuing and we can even say they are increasing.\"\n\nWhen asked whether she would assume a ministerial post if given the opportunity, she said the following:\n\nOn 26 March 2012, Aung San Suu Kyi suspended her nationwide campaign tour early, after a campaign rally in Myeik (Mergui), a coastal town in the south, citing health problems due to exhaustion and hot weather.\nOn 1 April 2012, the NLD announced that Aung San Suu Kyi had won the vote for a seat in Parliament. A news broadcast on state-run MRTV, reading the announcements of the Union Election Commission, confirmed her victory, as well as her party's victory in 43 of the 45 contested seats, officially making Aung San Suu Kyi the Leader of the Opposition in the Pyidaungsu Hluttaw.\n\nAlthough she and other MP-elects were expected to take office on 23 April when the Hluttaws resumed session, National League for Democracy MP-elects, including Aung San Suu Kyi, said they might not take their oaths because of its wording; in its present form, parliamentarians must vow to \"safeguard\" the constitution. In an address on Radio Free Asia, she said \"We don't mean we will not attend the parliament, we mean we will attend only after taking the oath  ... Changing that wording in the oath is also in conformity with the Constitution. I don't expect there will be any difficulty in doing it.\"\n\nOn 2 May 2012, National League for Democracy MP-elects, including Aung San Suu Kyi, took their oaths and took office, though the wording of the oath was not changed. According to the Los Angeles Times, \"Suu Kyi and her colleagues decided they could do more by joining as lawmakers than maintaining their boycott on principle.\"\nOn 9 July 2012, she attended the Parliament for the first time as a lawmaker.\n\nOn 16 June 2012, Aung San Suu Kyi was finally able to deliver her Nobel acceptance speech (Nobel lecture) at Oslo's City Hall, two decades after being awarded the peace prize. In September 2012, Aung San Suu Kyi received in person the United States Congressional Gold Medal, which is the highest Congressional award. Although she was awarded this medal in 2008, at the time she was under house arrest, and was unable to receive the medal. Aung San Suu Kyi was greeted with bipartisan support at Congress, as part of a coast-to-coast tour in the United States. In addition, Aung San Suu Kyi met President Barack Obama at the White House. The experience was described by Aung San Suu Kyi as \"one of the most moving days of my life.\" In 2014, she was listed as the 61st most powerful woman in the world by \"Forbes\".\n\nOn 6 July 2012, Aung San Suu Kyi announced on the World Economic Forum's website that she wanted to run for the presidency in Myanmar's 2015 elections. The current Constitution, which came into effect in 2008, bars her from the presidency because she is the widow and mother of foreigners – provisions that appeared to be written specifically to prevent her from being eligible.\n\nThe NLD won a sweeping victory in those elections, winning at least 255 seats in the House of Representatives and 135 seats in the House of Nationalities. In addition, Aung San Suu Kyi won re-election to the House of Representatives. Under the 2008 constitution, the NLD needed to win at least a two-thirds majority in both houses to ensure that its candidate would become president. Before the elections, Aung San Suu Kyi announced that even though she is constitutionally barred from the presidency, she would hold the real power in any NLD-led government. On 30 March 2016 she became Minister for the President's Office, for Foreign Affairs, for Education and for Electric Power and Energy in President Htin Kyaw's government; later she relinquished the latter two ministries and President Htin Kyaw appointed her State Counsellor, a position akin to a Prime Minister created especially for her.\n\nAs soon as she became foreign minister, she invited Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, Canadian Foreign Minister Stephane Dion and Italian Foreign Minister Paolo Gentiloni in April and Japanese Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida in May and discussed to have good diplomatic relationships with these countries.\n\nInitially, upon accepting the State Counsellor position, she granted amnesty to the students who were arrested for opposing the National Education Bill, and announced a creation of the commission on Rakhine state, which had a long record of persecution of the Muslim Rohingya minority. However, soon Aung San Suu Kyi's government did not manage with the ethnic conflicts in Shan and Kachin states, where thousands of refugees fled to China, and by 2017 the persecution of the Rohingya by the government forces escalated to the point that it is not uncommonly called a genocide. Aung San Suu Kyi, when interviewed, has denied the allegations of ethnic cleansing. She has also refused to grant citizenship to the Rohingya, instead taking steps to issue ID cards for residency but no guarantees of citizenship.\n\nHer tenure as State Counsellor of Myanmar has drawn international criticism for her failure to address her country's economic and ethnic problems, particularly the plight of the Rohingya following the 25 August 2017 ARSA attacks (described as \"certainly one of the biggest refugee crises and cases of ethnic cleansing since the second world war\"), for the weakening of freedom of the press and for her style of leadership, described as imperious and \"distracted and out of touch\".\n\nIn 2017, critics have called for Aung San Suu Kyi's Nobel prize to be revoked, citing her silence over the persecution of Rohingya people in Myanmar.\nSome activists criticised Aung San Suu Kyi for her silence on the 2012 Rakhine State riots (later repeated during the 2015 Rohingya refugee crisis), and her perceived indifference to the plight of the Rohingya, Myanmar's persecuted Muslim minority. In 2012, she told reporters she did not know if the Rohingya could be regarded as Burmese citizens. In a 2013 interview with the BBC's Mishal Husain, Aung San Suu Kyi did not condemn violence against the Rohingya and denied that Muslims in Myanmar have been subject to ethnic cleansing, insisting that the tensions were due to a \"climate of fear\" caused by \"a worldwide perception that global Muslim power is 'very great. She did condemn \"hate of any kind\" in the interview. According to Peter Popham, in the aftermath of the interview, she expressed anger at being interviewed by a Muslim. Husain had challenged Suu Kyi that almost all of the impact of violence was against the Rohingya, in response to Aung San Suu Kyi's claim that violence was happening on both sides, and Peter Popham described her position on the issue as one of purposeful ambiguity for political gain.\n\nHowever, she said that she wanted to work towards reconciliation and she cannot take sides as violence has been committed by both sides. According to \"The Economist\", her \"halo has even slipped among foreign human-rights lobbyists, disappointed at her failure to make a clear stand on behalf of the Rohingya minority\". However, she has spoken out \"against a ban on Rohingya families near the Bangladeshi border having more than two children\".\n\nIn a 2015 BBC News article, reporter Jonah Fisher suggested that Aung San Suu Kyi's silence over the Rohingya issue is due to a need to obtain support from the majority Bamar ethnicity as she is in \"the middle of a general election campaign\". In May 2015, the Dalai Lama publicly called upon her to do more to help the Rohingya in Myanmar, claiming that he had previously urged her to address the plight of the Rohingya in private during two separate meetings and that she had resisted his urging. In May 2016, Aung San Suu Kyi asked the newly appointed United States Ambassador to Myanmar, Scot Marciel, not to refer to the Rohingya by that name as they \"are not recognized as among the 135 official ethnic groups\" in Myanmar. This followed Bamar protests at Marciel's use of the word \"Rohingya\".\n\nIn 2016, Aung San Suu Kyi was accused of failing to protect Myanmar's Rohingya Muslims during the 2016–17 persecution. State crime experts from Queen Mary University of London warned that Aung San Suu Kyi is \"legitimising genocide\" in Myanmar. Despite continued persecution of the Rohingya well into 2017, Aung San Suu Kyi was \"not even admitting, let alone trying to stop, the army's well-documented campaign of rape, murder and destruction against Rohingya villages\". On 4 September 2017, Yanghee Lee, the UN's special rapporteur on human rights in Myanmar, criticised Suu Kyi's response to the \"really grave\" situation in Rakhine, saying: \"The de facto leader needs to step in – that is what we would expect from any government, to protect everybody within their own jurisdiction.\" The BBC reported that \"Her comments came as the number of Rohingya fleeing to Bangladesh reached 87,000, according to UN estimates\", adding that \"her sentiments were echoed by Nobel Peace laureate Malala Yousafzai, who said she was waiting to hear from Ms Suu Kyi – who has not commented on the crisis since it erupted\". The next day George Monbiot, writing in \"The Guardian\", called on readers to sign a change.org petition to have the Nobel peace prize revoked, criticising her silence on the matter and asserting \"whether out of prejudice or out of fear, she denies to others the freedoms she rightly claimed for herself. Her regime excludes – and in some cases seeks to silence – the very activists who helped to ensure her own rights were recognised.\" The Nobel Foundation replied that there existed no provision for revoking a Nobel Prize. Archbishop Desmond Tutu, a fellow peace prize holder, also criticised Suu Kyi's silence: in an open letter published on social media, he said: \"If the political price of your ascension to the highest office in Myanmar is your silence, the price is surely too steep  ... It is incongruous for a symbol of righteousness to lead such a country.\" On 13 September it was revealed that Aung San Suu Kyi would not be attending a UN General Assembly debate being held the following week to discuss the humanitarian crisis, with a Myanmar government spokesman stating \"perhaps she has more pressing matters to deal with\".\n\nIn October 2017, Oxford City Council announced that, following a unanimous cross-party vote, the honour of Freedom of the City, granted in 1997 in recognition of her \"long struggle for democracy\", was to be withdrawn following evidence emerging from the United Nations which meant that she was \"no longer worthy of the honour\". A few days later, Munsur Ali, a councillor for City of London Corporation, tabled a motion to rescind the Freedom of the City of London: the motion was supported by Catherine McGuinness, chair of the corporation's policy and resources committee, who expressed \"distress  ... at the situation in Burma and the atrocities committed by the Burmese military\". On 13 November 2017, Bob Geldof returned his Freedom of the City of Dublin award in protest over Aung San Suu Kyi also holding the accolade, stating that he does not \"wish to be associated in any way with an individual currently engaged in the mass ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya people of north-west Burma\". Calling Aung San Suu Kyi a \"handmaiden to genocide\", Geldof added that he would take pride in his award being restored if it is first stripped from her. The Dublin City Council voted 59–2 (with one abstention) to revoke Aung San Suu Kyi's Freedom of the City award over Myanmar's treatment of the Rohingya people in December 2017, though Lord Mayor of Dublin Mícheál Mac Donncha denied the decision was influenced by protests by Geldof and members of U2. At the same meeting, the Councillors voted 37–7 (with 5 abstentions) to remove Geldof's name from the Roll of Honorary Freemen.\n\nIn March 2018, the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum revoked Suu Kyi's Elie Wiesel Award, awarded in 2012, citing her failure \"to condemn and stop the military's brutal campaign\" against Rohingya Muslims.\n\nIn May 2018, Aung San Suu Kyi was considered complicit in the crimes against Rohingyas in a report by Britain's International Development Committee.\n\nIn August 2018, it was revealed that Aung San Suu Kyi would be stripped of her Freedom of Edinburgh award over her refusal to speak out against the crimes committed against the Rohingya. She had received the award in 2005 for promoting peace and democracy in Burma. This will be only the second time that anyone has ever been stripped of the award, after Charles Stewart Parnell lost it in 1890 due to a salacious affair. Also in August, a UN report, while describing the violence as genocide, added that Aung San Suu Kyi did as little as possible to prevent it.\n\nIn early October 2018, both the Canadian Senate and its House of Commons voted unanimously to strip Aung San Suu Kyi of her honourary citizenship. This decision was caused by the Government of Canada's determination that the treatment of the Rohingya by Myanmar’s government amounts to Genocide.\n\nOn November 11, 2018, Amnesty International announced it was revoking her Ambassador of Conscience award.\n\nIn December 2017, two Reuters journalists, Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, were arrested while investigating the Inn Din massacre of Rohingyas alleged to have been carried out by Myanmar's security forces. Suu Kyi publicly commented in June 2018 that the journalists \"weren't arrested for covering the Rakhine issue\", but because they had broken Myanmar's Official Secrets Act. As the journalists were then on trial for violating the Official Secrets Act, Aung San Suu Kyi's presumption of their guilt were criticized by rights groups for potentially influencing the verdict. American diplomat Bill Richardson said that he had privately discussed the arrest with Suu Kyi, and he alleged that Aung San Suu Kyi reacted angrily and labelled the journalists as \"traitors\". A police officer testified that he was ordered by superiors to use entrapment to frame and arrest the journalists; he was later jailed and his family evicted from their home in the police camp. The judge found the journalists guilty in September 2018 and to be jailed for seven years. Aung San Suu Kyi reacted to widespread international criticism of the verdict by stating: \"I don't think anyone has bothered to read\" the judgement as it had \"nothing to do with freedom of expression at all\", but the Official Secrets Act. She also challenged critics to \"point out where there has been a miscarriage of justice\", and told the two Reuters journalists that they could appeal their case to a higher court.\n\nIn September 2018, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights issued a report that since Aung San Suu Kyi's party, the NLD, came to power, the arrests and criminal prosecutions of journalists in Myanmar by the government and military, under laws which are too vague and broad, have \"made it impossible for journalists to do their job without fear or favour.\"\n\nAsked what democratic models Myanmar could look to, she said: \"We have many, many lessons to learn from various places, not just the Asian countries like South Korea, Taiwan, Mongolia, and Indonesia.\" She also cited \"the eastern European countries, which made the transition from communist autocracy to democracy in the 1980s and 1990s, and the Latin American countries, which made the transition from military governments. \"And we cannot of course forget South Africa, because although it wasn't a military regime, it was certainly an authoritarian regime.\" She added: \"We wish to learn from everybody who has achieved a transition to democracy, and also  ... our great strong point is that, because we are so far behind everybody else, we can also learn which mistakes we should avoid.\"\n\nIn a nod to the deep US political divide between Republicans led by Mitt Romney and the Democrats of Obama—then battling to win the 2012 Presidential election—she stressed, \"Those of you who are familiar with American politics I'm sure understand the need for negotiated compromise.\"\n\n\n\nThe life of Aung San Suu Kyi and her husband Michael Aris is portrayed in Luc Besson's 2011 film \"The Lady\", in which they are played by Michelle Yeoh and David Thewlis. Yeoh visited Suu Kyi in 2011 before the film's release in November. In the John Boorman's 1995 film \"Beyond Rangoon\", Aung San Suu Kyi was played by Adelle Lutz.\n\nSince 2009, Indian actress and Bharathanatyam dancer Rukmini Vijayakumar has been portraying as Aung San Suu Kyi in a one-act play titled \"The Lady of Burma\" directed by Prakash Belawadi, which also happens to be an eponymous play written by Richard Shannon.\n\nIrish songwriters Damien Rice and Lisa Hannigan released in 2005 the single \"Unplayed Piano\", in support of the Free Aung San Suu Kyi 60th Birthday Campaign that was happening at the time. U2's Bono wrote the song \"Walk On\" in tribute to Aung San Suu Kyi, and publicized her plight during the U2 360° Tour, 2009-2011. Saxophonist Wayne Shorter composed a song titled \"Aung San Suu Kyi\". It appears on his albums \"1 + 1\" (with pianist Herbie Hancock) and \"Footprints Live!\".\n\nShe had surgery for a gynecological condition in September 2003 at Asia Royal Hospital during her house arrest. She underwent minor foot surgery in December 2013 and eye surgery in April 2016. Her doctor said that she had no serious health problems but weighed only 48 kg, had low blood pressure and could become weak easily.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "763216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=763216", "title": "Black People's Convention", "text": "Black People's Convention\n\nThe Black People's Convention (BPC) was founded at the end of 1972 as the Nationalist Liberatory Flagship of the Black Consciousness Movement (BCM) in South Africa. The BCM was a product of three historicultural and ideological imperatives: \n\na) Black students were tired of the hypocrisy of white liberal college/university students of apartheid South Africa. The South African Students Organisation (SASO) originated Black Consciousness and Bantu Steve Biko was its founding President in 1969.\n\nb) Blacks were undermining reactionary tribalist/national chauvinist/sexists divide and rule by white racialist settler-colonial governments since 1910 and earlier. \n\nc) Young people globally were taking their part in the international radical/revolutionary militancy of the mid and late sixties. This tendency was a legacy of the Congress Youth League led by Muziwakhe Lembede, the Unity Movement of South Africa and the Mangaliso Sobukwe-led Pan-Africanist Congress that linked continental and global working class struggle with South Africa's national oppression of Black people.\n\nThe BPC was founded by the Black communities from various ethnic and national groups in South Africa, excluding white Europeans. The BPC went farther than the ANC's civil rights integrationist agenda and agreed with the Pan Africanist Congress on \"National Land\" repossession. They went further by espousing scientific socialism under the guise of \"Black Communalism\".\n\nWhen the BPC was gaining ideological hegemony over the leadership of Blacks in the country, Chief Mangosuthu Gatsha Buthelezi was given permission by the apartheid government to go to London and meet the ANC leadership. Later he formed the Inkatha Cultural Movement, claiming allegiance to Black Consciousness but \"not communism or socialism\".\n\nBantu Steve Biko was the first among equals in the leadership of the BPC, although he was legally not a member as he was outlawed or banned in March 1973. That restricted him to his home from 6pm till 6am and he was not allowed to belong to any political or social organisation. The BPC was to the South African Student Organisation ((SASO)) South Africa's Black Consciousness Movement the same role that the Black Panther Party (BPP) was to SNCC and the Black Power Movement.\n\nThe BPC was resurrected in 1978 and was renamed the Azanian People's Organisation (AZAPO). In exile from 1974 onwards BCM activists and organisers re-built the movement as the Black Consciousness Movement of Azania (BCMA) and in 1980, became the external wing of AZAPO, with an interim executive leadership committee.\n\nIn 1981 the founding National Organiser, Mosibudi Mangena was nominated to be the Chairperson of the Botswana Region of the BCMA and later by 1983, a motion was moved asking the Botswana Chapter to invite other external branches to dissolve the BCMA Interim Committee. This was done and Mosibudi Mangena was elected in 1983 Chairperson of the BCMA in exile. Mangena is, since 1996, President AZAPO in post-apartheid South Africa.\n\nThe three factors that led to BPC founding its ideology can be found in the indigenous African culture of resistance. The ideology is no further from the Convention People's Party of Ghana and the politics not unlike that of the Black Panther Party - hence the Black Peoples Convention.\n\nIn the years after the Soweto Uprising of 1976 black consciousness declined was marginalized as a political force in South Africa, as the ANC demonstrated that it could both opportunistically put a guerilla army in the field against apartheid as well as lead a new wave of liberal accommodationist and capitalist collaborationist mass organisations, such as the United Democratic Front. Organisations previously associated with black consciousness either were hijacked by political careerist to gravitate towards the ANC's position (e.g. AZASO, Institute of Contextual Theology) or effectively became alternative, although marginalized, core of cadres with consistency like AZAPO 's President Mosibudi who is Minister of Science and Technology in Thabo Mbeki's Cabinet and earlier been Deputy Minister of National Education. Also Azapo as parliamentary representative, Pandelani Nevelofhodwe, MP and former Robben Island prisoner.\n"}
{"id": "2982731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2982731", "title": "Blanch fee", "text": "Blanch fee\n\nBlanch fee, or blanch holding (from French \"blanc\", white), an ancient tenure in Scots land law, the duty payable being in silver or \"white\" money in contradistinction to gold. The phrase was afterwards applied to any holding of which the quit-rent was merely nominal, such as a penny, a peppercorn, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "23675004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23675004", "title": "Bureau of Investigation and Statistics", "text": "Bureau of Investigation and Statistics\n\nThe National Bureau of Investigation and Statistics (Military Commission), (NBIS or BIS) (), commonly known as Juntong (), was the military intelligence agency of the Republic of China before 1946. It was devoted to intelligence gathering and covert spying operation for purposes of national security and defense. It was originally headed by Dai Li, and after 1946 he was succeeded by Mao Renfeng. This bureau was largely superseded by the Military Intelligence Bureau under Ministry of National Defense in Taiwan today.\n\nThe NBIS had a great influence amongst the Nationalist Government's military, police, administration, and transportation agencies, as well as embassies and consulates abroad during the Political Tutelage period (1928-1946) of Republic of China. It was often criticized by the political dissidents as a \"secret police\" involving in covert and espionage operation, including surveillance, kidnapping, assassinations, elimination and house-arrest against Chinese communists, Japanese spies as well as political dissidents.\nDuring the Sino-Japanese War, the NBIS was involved in a number of counter-intelligence and covert espionage warfare against the Japanese invaders. There were NBIS agents who defected to Japanese, and many of the secret police in Wang Jingwei's Japanese-occupied areas were former NBIS agents.\n\nFrom a historical perspective, NBIS played an important role in Second Sino-Japanese War. Under the leadership of Dai Li, the Nationalist Government had a body of 100,000 active spies involving in espionage warfare against Japanese, as well as against the Wang Jingwei-led puppet Nationalist Government of the Japanese-occupied areas.\n\nThe NBIS was founded in 1927 as the \"Military Commission of Clandestine Investigation Section of the National Revolutionary Army\" () with the \"Special Works Department\"() set up in 1932. When the \"Investigation and Statistics Bureau\" was established under the Military Commission, the \"Special Works Department\" was incorporated into the Bureau and renamed the \"Second Division\", and is responsible for intelligence collection and personnel training. All of the bureau's affairs were under the direct command of Chiang Kai-shek. Dai sought to make the \"Juntong\" into an extended family with himself as the stern paternal figure, stressing traditional Chinese Confucian values of filial piety, loyalty, benevolence, and righteousness. The \"Juntong\" operated as a traditional sworn brotherhood with all of the senior officers taking an oath making themselves into \"brothers\". The inspiration for the \"Juntong\" were the secret sworn brotherhoods portrayed in the classics of Chinese literature like \"Water Margin\" and \"The Romance of the Three Kingdoms\". Dai presented himself as a stern Confucian father figure to the men and women of the \"Juntong\" and liked to quote from book \"The Dynastic History of the Han\" is \"Is personal happiness possible before the extermination of the Xiongnu?\" Reflecting this mentality, the men and women serving in the \"Juntong\" were forbidden to marry and expected to be celibate as their only love was to be China. The rules about celibacy were not always followed as Liu Gequing, the \"Juntong\" ace assassin fell in love with and had a relationship with a fellow agent, Lu Ti, during his time in Shanghai. Likewise, \"Juntong\" agents were expected to forsake smoking, gambling and playing mahjong as Dai wanted them to hard work and dedicate their lives totally to China. Reflecting this ethos of absolute dedication to the cause, many of the assassination missions that \"Juntong\" agents were sent on against the Chinese Communists and later on during the war with Japan were known to be suicide missions as the expectation was that \"Juntong\" agents were to value China more than their own lives. Dai often said that the \"Juntong\" were to serve Chiang \"like dogs and horses serving their masters without a mind of their own\" as Dai presented Chiang as \"the Leader\" to whom all Chinese had to obey unconditionally. As the world of espionage was a secretive one, \"Juntong\" agents were advised that they were to be \"anonymous heroes\" whose deeds would not be remembered by historians.\n\n\"Juntong\" agents tended to come from the provincial schools as Dai disliked recruiting those who attended universities, whom the xenophobic, ultra-conservative Dai felt were too exposed to Western influence to fit into the \"Juntong\". \"Juntong\" agents, especially those working as assassins were generally expected to know martial arts before joining, both to improve their skills at killing and because Dai felt the sort of self-discipline needed to master the martial arts was the same sort of dedication that he expected in his agents. Reflecting Dai's traditionalism, the model for the \"Juntong\" were the assassins of the Warring States period and those portrayed in \"The Romance of the Three Kingdoms\". One of the most best loved books among the \"Juntong\" was the novel \"Jianghu qixia zhuan\" (\"Legendary Roving Knights of the Rivers and Lakes\"), a \"wuxia\" (martial arts) book that was very popular in Republican China. Dai liked the book so much that he recruited the \"kung fu\" master who was said to be the inspiration for the hero of \"Jianghu qixia zhuan\" into the \"Juntong\". The men and women of the \"Juntong\" liked to see themselves as \"knights\" who would use their skills to defend the weak from the strong and save China from its enemies. A disproportionate number of the men and women of the \"Juntong\" came from the provinces of Hunan, Guangdong, and Zhejiang, all places where Western influence was limited and traditional values flourished.\n\nIn 1938, the Special Works Department was expanded and took over the \"Investigation and Statistics Bureau\" to cope with the increasingly demanding tasks of intelligence operations. Dai Li was assigned as the \"de facto\" responsibility for running the unit. Dai's preference for recruiting on the basis of familial loyalties, where one sibling would recruit other siblings to the \"Juntong\" proved to be a weakness, when in 1938 a number of \"Juntong\" agents defected over to work for the \"reformed\" government of Wang Jingwei, pitting brother literally against brother.\n\nDuring the Sino-Japanese War, NBIS had orchestrated the assassinations of several key Japanese enemy military and government personnel. Between 1937-41, the \"Juntong\", working together with the Green Gang triad, carried out 150 assassinations of Chinese collaborators and 40 Japanese officers in Shanghai alone. The \"Juntong\" favored assassinating Chinese collaborators over the Japanese partly because they were easier to kill as the Japanese tended to stick to certain enclaves, but mostly to prevent the Japanese from imposing any sort of ordered government in parts of China they had occupied. Japan had occupied vast sections of China inhabited by millions of people requiring hundreds of thousands of civil servants to administer while the number of Japanese who were fluent in Mandarin or Cantonese was limited, and to a very large extent the Japanese depended upon Chinese collaborators to administer China for them. Zhang Xiaolin, a leading member of the Green Gang who went over to the Japanese in 1937 was gunned down by a \"Juntong\" assassin. In October 1938, Tang Shaoyi, a former prime minister of the Republic of China who had agreed to serve the Japanese was killed at his home when a \"Juntong\" assassin posing as an antique dealer used the antique axe he was showing to Tang to smash in his head. As the Japanese had no idea of who the \"Juntong\" assassins were, they restored to lashing out by executing at random innocent people who had nothing to do with the assassinations.\n\nOn Chinese New Year (18 February 1939), four \"Juntong\" agents assassinated Chen Lu, the foreign minister of the Wang Jingwei puppet government as he paying respects to his ancestors in his mansion in the French Concession of Shanghai. Led by the \"Juntong\" ace assassin Liu Geqing, he and three others entered Chen's mansion as two of his bodyguards let them in, machine-gunned Chen down as he paying his respects before the family shrine, and then draped over his corpse a scroll reading \"Death to Collaborators! Long Live Generalissimo Chiang Kai-Shek!\". Fu Xiaoan, the banker and shipping tycoon who had long been an enemy of the Kuomintang and had thrown in his lot with the Japanese, becoming the collaborating mayor of Shanghai, was hacked to death with a meat chopper in his bed by his cook who was secretly a \"Juntong\" assassin. In 1939, a banquet to celebrate the friendship between Japan and the Wang Jingwei regime attended by senior Japanese officers and Chinese collaborators in Shanghai were ruined when the cooks, many of whom were working for the \"Juntong\" poisoned the food, and only prompt medical attention that required pumping the stomachs of the guests prevented hundreds of deaths. Later in 1939, a train that carrying various Japanese officers and officials of the Wang Jingwei regime from Shanghai to Nanking for a ceremony marking a new treaty that was meant to cement Wang's regime in its place in the \"New Order in Asia\" was blown up by \"Juntong\" agents, killing 74 and wounding hundreds more.\n\nThe chief enemy of the \"Juntong\" in Shanghai were not the Japanese, most of whom did not speak Mandarin and even those who did speak Mandarin did so with a Japanese accent that betrayed where they were from, but rather the secret service loyal to the Wang regime that was based in the Huxi \"badlands\" district in Shanghai headed by Ding Mocun and Li Shiqun, two former Communists who defected over to the \"Juntong\" before going over to the Japanese. The No. 76 organization as it was known after its address at 76 Jessfield Road was founded in February 1939 when Ding and Li presented themselves to General Kenji Doihara, the chief of Japanese intelligence in China, at a restaurant in Shanghai's \"Little Tokyo\" district, and proclaimed their willingness to serve Japan, stating as former \"Juntong\" agents that they were the only men who could beat the \"Juntong\" at its own game. On 1 March 1939, the No. 76 organization came into being, and its liaison officer was Colonel Haruke Yoshitane of the Plum Blossom Agency, who in turn reported to Colonel Kagesa Sadaaki of the \"Kempeitai\", the much feared Japanese military police. On 8 May 1939, Wu Shibao, a Green Gang member and the leader of \"a gang of local thugs and bullies\" agreed to become Li's bodyguard and to provide the \"muscle\" for the No. 76 organization. Li boosted in a speech \"With the left hand we'll annihilate the Blue Shirts, with the right we'll knock down the C.C Clique!\". The No. 76 organization, which moved into its base at No. 76 Jessfield Road in July 1939, was based in a mansion that had once belonged to the warlord General Chen Diaoyuan that was turned into a fortress with concrete blocks on the drive-way and electrified iron gates as both Ding and Li had an obsessive fear of assassination.\n\nAs both Ding and Li had been senior \"Juntong\" agents until 1938 with Ding heading the Third Section of the Military Affairs Bureau until late 1938 while Li had been a member of the Green Gang, the two men knew the \"Juntong\" very well and in many ways the No. 76 organization was a mirror image of the \"Juntong\". The collaborating secret police assassinated anti-Japanese Chinese; had powers to arrest without warrant, torture and to kill extrajudicially; kidnapped businessmen for ransom; and were deeply involved in organized crime, charging a \"fee\" to all of the opium dens, brothels and casinos of Shanghai to allow them to operate. In September 1939, Wang Tianmu, the chief \"Juntong\" agent in Shanghai was kidnapped on the Nanjing road by No. 76 agents, was taken to 76 Jessfield Road where he was held for three weeks before being released. Suspecting Wang, who had not been tortured had been \"turned\", Dai ordered him assassinated and a \"Juntong\" agent shot him in the shoulder during a failed attempt to kill him. \n\nThe No. 76 organization blew up the headquarters of the \"Juntong\" in Shanghai while the \"Juntong\" assassins killed a dozen of No. 76 organization leaders in the fall of 1939. Wang's defection to the No. 76 organization proved a most serious blow as he betrayed all of the agents under his command, and the \"Kempeitai\" arrested dozens of \"Juntong agents\" in Shanghai, Beijing, and Tianjin due to the information provided by Wang. On 15 November 1939, Zhao Gangyi, the \"Juntong\" chief in Qingdao, fearing it was only a matter of time before the \"Kempeitai\" arrested him owning to the information provided by Wang, decided to save himself and defected over to the Wang regime, betraying all of the agents under his command to the \"Kempeitai\". On 24 November 1939, thanks to information provided by Zhao, the \"Kempeitai\" raided the \"Juntong\"'s headquarters in Beijing. \n\nOn 21 December 1939, Ding was almost killed when his mistress, the teenage schoolgirl Zheng Pingru, led him into a \"Juntong\" assassination attempt. When Ding ordered his men to execute Zheng, a girl born to a Chinese father and a Japanese mother, she asked them not to shoot her in the face, so she would still be beautiful at her funeral, a request that No. 76 execution squad honored. This incident is generally believed to have been the inspiration for the 1979 novella \"Lust, Caution\" by Eileen Chang, which in turn inspired the 2007 film \"Lust, Caution\". On Christmas Eve 1939, Chen Mingchu, a former \"Juntong\" agent who had joined the No. 76 organization was assassinated by the \"Juntong\" agents at the Huierdeng nightclub in Shanghai. Chen and his twenty bodyguards were celebrating Christmas on the floor of the nightclub when a group of \"Juntong\" agents armed with machine-guns burst in to gun down Chen and his bodyguards. On 8 September 1940, Zhou Guangshi, the chief of \"Juntong\" operations in occupied China was captured by the \"Kempeital\" who tortured and executed him. By late 1941, most of the \"Juntong\" agents operating in the major cities occupied by Japan were either killed or captured.\n\nVarious \"guerrilla command\" and \"traffic police\" groups under the NBIS carried out a wide range of covert espionage and counterintelligence activities against the Japanese and Japanese collaborators. In 1942, the Sino-American Cooperative Organization was founded, which led to 3, 000 Americans being sent to China for joint operations with the \"Juntong\". Dai's relations with the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) were unfriendly and at one point Dai warned William \"Wild Bill\" Donovan, the chief of the OSS: \"If the OSS tries to operate outside of SACO, I will kill your agents\". The \"Juntong\" co-operated with the OSS in parachuting agents, mostly Chinese-Americans, behind Japanese lines, but relations were stained in 1943 when the OSS sent Ilya Andreyevich Tolstoy to Tibet to contact the Dali Lama as China's government did not recognize Tibet's \"de facto\" independence. China which regarded Tibet, which had become \"de facto\" independent in 1911, as a breakaway province that was still legally part of China, greatly resented the Tolstoy mission as a tacit American recognition of Tibetan independence. From 1937-41, more than 18,000 NBIS intelligence agents lost their lives, and by the end of the war the number has increased to more than 45,000.\n\nIn August 1946, the Ministry of National Defense was established to replace the Military Commission, and the NBIS changed its name to the Counterintelligence Bureau under the Ministry of National Defense (). Mao Renfeng was the director given the de facto responsibility for running the unit.\n\nAfter Nationalist government was moved to Taiwan in 1949, a number of BIS staff remained in mainland China for intelligence activities. The NBIS operatives were severely repressed by Chinese Communist government during the Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries, and were mostly executed by firing squad or received heavy punishment. By end of the 1950s, the NBIS staff were largely shot or serving hard labor on the mainland.\n\nIn 1955, the Bureau was again reorganized as the Intelligence Bureau (), responsible for early-warning intelligence collection and strategic analysis. Since then, the Ministry of Justice took over the functions of counterintelligence and investigation from the Bureau.\n\nOn 1 July 1985, the Military Intelligence Bureau () was created by merging the Special Military Intelligence Office with the Intelligence Bureau. The Military Intelligence Bureau was subordinated to the Ministry of National Defense under the direct command of the Chief of the General Staff.\n\n"}
{"id": "916639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=916639", "title": "Canadian Jewish Congress", "text": "Canadian Jewish Congress\n\nThe Canadian Jewish Congress (, , ) was, for more than ninety years, the main advocacy group for the Jewish community in Canada. Regarded by many as the \"Parliament of Canadian Jewry,\" the Congress was at the forefront of the struggle for human rights, equality, immigration reform and civil rights in Canada.\n\nThe organization disbanded in July 2011 following a reorganization of the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs, of which the CJA became a subsidiary in 2007.\n\nThe immediate predecessor to the CJC was formed in 1915 by the Montreal chapter of Poalei Zion, a working class Labour Zionist organization. They were soon joined by thirteen other organizations, mostly other chapters of Poalei Zion and the Arbeiter Ring, in forming the Canadian Jewish Alliance. The organization, composed of elected officials, set out to represent all of Canadian Jewry on its major political, national and international affairs. It also aimed to respond to problems arising from the First World War, specifically the oppression of Jews overseas, the immigration of Jewish refugees, and Britain's promises to create a Jewish state.\n\nIn 1919, over 25,000 Jews from across Canada voted for delegates to the first convention of the CJC held in Montreal that March. Diverse groups including the Canadian Federation of Zionist Societies, Poalei Zion, Mizrachi, and the Arbeiter Ring were present at the convention. While there, they were addressed by the Solicitor General of Canada, and were entertained at Montreal City Hall, where a large Zionist flag was draped over the Mayor's chair. The main decision at that meeting was the founding of the Jewish Immigrant Aid Society to assist Jewish settlers and refugees in Canada. They also passed motions expressing the Jewish community's loyalty to Canada and others declaring their support for the Balfour Declaration. The convention elected Lyon Cohen, former President of the Montreal Clothing Manufacturers Union, as their President.\n\nDespite this auspicious start, the CJC fell into abeyance and was inactive until 1934, due to lack of leadership and funding. With the rise in anti-Semitism and restricted immigration policies in the 1930s, the CJC re-convened in 1934 and held the Congress' second plenum in Toronto in January. Cohen's friend and close colleague, Samuel William Jacobs, a prominent Jewish leader and Member of Parliament, became the revived Congress' first president.\n\nIn 1938, the Canadian Jewish Congress partnered with B'nai Brith Canada to create the Joint Public Relations Committee, with the goal of developing a strategy to combat discrimination and find allies within other minority groups.\n\nThe CJC was active before and during World War II in lobbying the government (with limited success) to open the borders to Jewish refugees fleeing Europe. After the war, over 1,100 child Holocaust survivors immigrated to Canada in the War Orphans Project, a refugee resettlement program administered by the CJC. The CJC also organized relief aid for Holocaust survivors who were being detained in Displaced Persons camps. Along with the efforts of Senator Arthur Roebuck and Rabbi Avraham Aharon Price, the CJC helped obtain the release of young, Jewish refugees from internment camps, bringing them to study in Toronto.\n\nThe Congress' dominant figure from 1939 to 1962 was its president, Samuel Bronfman who was elected president following Jacobs' death in 1938. During the Cold War at Bronfman's urging, the CJC expelled the United Jewish People's Order and other communist Jewish organizations in 1951. At the time, the UJPO was one of the largest Jewish fraternal organizations in Canada. It would not be readmitted to the CJC until 1995.\n\nIn 1967, the CJC gifted approximately 7,000 volumes of rare Judaica to the National Library on behalf of the Canadian Jewish community in honour of the Canadian Centennial.\n\nDuring the war between Israel and Lebanon in 1982, former Prime Minister Joe Clark issued a public rebuke to the CJC at its annual policy convention for its stance of unconditionally supporting the State of Israel in that war. During the speech, Clark was interrupted with heckles from the crowd and approximately 50 people left the room in protest. Near the end of his remarks, the audience began to sing \"Hatikvah\", the Israeli national anthem.\n\nOne of the initiatives sponsored by the CJC was the International Jewish Correspondence, founded in 1978, whose goal was to link Jews around the world as pen-pals. With the rise of the internet in the 1990s, IJC became less active and had folded by 2002. The organization also provided addresses for Jews living in Arab and Soviet Bloc countries as well as Jewish prisoners who were put in contact with others in the same situation. Jewish people from nearly 20 countries participated in the initiative, including those with declining Jewish populations such as Estonia, Morocco and Zimbabwe.\n\nIn its later decades the CJC launched campaigns to pressure the Soviet Union to allow Jewish emigration, to pressure the Canadian government to prosecute Nazi war criminals who had settled in Canada, and to enact and use hate crimes legislation against anti-Semites and Holocaust deniers such as Ernst Zündel. The CJC was actively opposed to Quebec separatism in the 1990s, and formed a national coalition of Canada's Italian, Greek and Jewish communities during the debate on the Charlottetown Accord. The CJC also worked to promote tolerance and understanding between religious and ethnic groups, promote anti-racist work and other campaigns.\n\nThe CJC introduced significant changes to its internal organization in June 2007. The previous system of electing representatives to the Board of Directors was discarded, and a new system was introduced wherein Board members were chosen by indirect elections from \"regional Congress representatives\" and \"delegates from Jewish federations\". Congress CEO Bernie Farber supported the change, arguing that it would streamline a complicated process. Others argued that the new system would give disproportionate power to the Canadian Council for Israel and Jewish Advocacy. One individual, described by \"The Canadian Jewish News\" as a \"close observer of Congress\", argued that CIJA was \"stacking the deck\" in a bid to take over the CJC.\n\nIn 2011, the renamed Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs (CIJA) assumed the functions of the CJC after an 18-month restructuring process in which the functions of the Canadian Jewish Congress, the Canada-Israel Committee, the Quebec-Israel Committee, National Jewish Campus Life and the University Outreach Committee were consolidated, a move that left the Jewish community divided. On 1 July 2011 the CJC posted a message on its website declaring that it had halted its activities and that its functions would be assumed by CIJA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6168876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6168876", "title": "Ceasefire attempts during the 2006 Lebanon War", "text": "Ceasefire attempts during the 2006 Lebanon War\n\nThe ceasefire attempts during the 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict started immediately, with Lebanon calling for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire already the day after the start of the hostilities. Israel, however, strongly backed by the United States and the United Kingdom, insisted that there could be no ceasefire until Hezbollah's militia had been disarmed or removed from southern Lebanon. The United Nations Security Council held meetings throughout the conflict but failed to agree on a ceasefire resolution.\n\nThe Lebanese Prime Minister Fouad Siniora stated that his government had not been aware of Hezbollah's raid before it happened \"and does not take responsibility for, nor endorses what happened on the international border\", and Lebanon urged the United Nations to take an immediate decision to stop the firing and lift the Israeli sea and air blockade.\n\nOn the same day, the United States vetoed a draft resolution before the Security Council calling for a ceasefire and release of all hostages in relating the Gaza conflict, citing the \"fluid and volatile nature of events on the ground\" which rendered it outmoded.\n\nBBC News reported that Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert would agree to a ceasefire only if Hezbollah returned the two captured soldiers, stopped firing rockets at Israel, and if Lebanon implemented UN Security Council Resolution 1559, which calls for the group’s disarmament.\n\nThe Security Council met to consider the situation. Russia, China, France all condemned Hezbollah's activities but considered Israel's military response to be disproportionate.\n\nU.S. President Bush stated that, \"We of course are continuing discussions with Israel, all sovereign nations have a right to defend themselves from terrorist attacks. Our message (to Israel) is defend yourself, but be mindful of the consequences, so we are urging restraint.\"<br>On the same day, United Nations Security Council rejected pleas from Lebanon that it call for an immediate ceasefire, the U.S. reportedly being the only member of the 15-nation Council to oppose any action.\n\nPrime Minister Ehud Olmert said the fighting in Lebanon would end when Hezbollah guerrillas freed two captured soldiers, rocket attacks on Israel stopped and the Lebanese army deployed along the border. On the same day, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan and British Prime Minister Tony Blair called for an international force to be sent to Lebanon to stop Hezbollah from attacking Israel. But Israel said it was too soon to talk about deploying an international force.\n\nThe United States rejected calls for an immediate ceasefire. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said that a ceasefire could only occur when \"conditions are conducive to do so\".\n\nSecretary-General Kofi Annan briefed the Security Council on the continuing escalation of the conflict.\n\nThe Center for Democracy in Lebanon, a Lebanese group which was involved in the Cedar Revolution movement, called for an immediate ceasefire and proposed a \"Roadmap to Normalization\". The same day, a senior member of Hezbollah's executive committee stated: \"Thus far, Hezbollah has had surprising military successes... But Hezbollah is still ready to accept a ceasefire and negotiate indirectly an exchange of prisoners to bring the current crisis to an end\".\n\nForeign ministers from the United States, Europe and the Middle East meeting in Rome vowed \"to work immediately to reach with the utmost urgency a ceasefire that puts an end to the current violence and hostilities,\" though the U.S. maintained strong support for the Israeli campaign and the conference's results were reported to have fallen short of Arab and European leaders' expectations.\n\nAt the Rome meeting, Lebanon's Prime Minister Fuad Siniora presented the 7-point Siniora Plan, which called for a mutual release of Lebanese and Israeli prisoners and detainees, a withdrawal of the Israeli ground troops behind the Blue Line, that the disputed Shebaa Farms area is placed under UN jurisdiction until the ownership issue has been settled, that the Lebanese army full takes control over southern Lebanon, and that a strong multi-national force with a UN mandate is placed in southern Lebanon and given the necessary powers to guarantee stability and security. The plan received the support of Hezbollah, the EU and the Arab League, including countries such as Syria and Jordan.\n\nThe Security Council met to express its shock and distress and the bombing of a United Nations Observer post (part of UNIFIL) and the deaths of four of its peacekeepers.\n\nThe UN Emergency Relief Coordinator Jan Egeland asked for a 72-hour ceasefire to let relief workers to evacuate the elderly, young, and injured and to deliver aid to Lebanon. But Israeli government spokesman Avi Pazner rejected it, saying that \"There is no need for a 72-hour temporary ceasefire because Israel has opened a humanitarian corridor to and from Lebanon.\"\n\nIn the aftermath of the bombing raid on Qana, the Israeli government announced a 48-hour limited suspension of air operations over southern Lebanon. The reason given was to allow the UN to coordinate \"humanitarian efforts on the ground in southern Lebanon, to allow the IDF time to investigate events at Qana, and, according to an Israeli Army spokesman, to \"allow a 24-hour period of safe passage for all residents of south Lebanon who wish to leave\". The IDF reserved the right to attack targets that threatened its forces during the pause.\n\nThe Security Council was briefed by the Secretary-General about the raid on Qana and took statements from the representative of Lebanon, and then issued a statement expressing its \"extreme shock and distress\" at the incident.\n\nThe Security Council passed United Nations Resolution 1697(2006) calling for the resupply of UNIFIL and to extend its mandate till 31 August, and then held a meeting where the representative of Lebanon and Israel exchanged their points of view.\n\nFrance and the United States presented a draft UN Security Council resolution. It was, however, regarded as much too favourable to Israel by Lebanon and most Arab nations, as it didn't call for an immediate Israeli withdrawal from Lebanese territory, and only called on Israel to stop its offensive activities, while calling for Hezbollah to stop all activities.\n\nAt an emergency meeting of the Arab League in Beirut, the Siniora Plan was further detailed, by specifying that 15,000 Lebanese Army troops would fill the void in southern Lebanon between an Israeli withdrawal and the arrival of the international force. The number of soldiers corresponded with what Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert earlier had said that the size of the international force would need to be.\n\nA delegation from the Arab League came to New York to try to persuade the architects of the UN draft, France and USA, to base it on the Siniora Plan. This, combined with a strong opposition to the existing draft from several of the 15 Council members, especially Qatar, resulted in a change of France's position. In order to avoid a total collapse of the UN efforts to end the hostilities, this eventually led to a substantial revision of the draft proposal (with several re-drafts in between), which included many elements from the Siniora Plan.\n\nThe Security Council met and discussed the merits of a draft resolution which was before them (although not publicly available).\n\nThe Security Council unanimously adopted a revised draft of the resolution as United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701 in a meeting attended by the Secretaries of State or Foreign Ministers of United States, United Kingdom, France, Qatar, Greece, and Denmark.\n\nThe Lebanese government unanimously accepted the UN resolution, and it was also accepted by Hezbollah's leader, Hassan Nasrallah. Later the same day, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan announced that a ceasefire was to start at 8:00 am local time on 14 August, a time accepted by both Lebanon's PM Fouad Siniora and Israel's PM Ehud Olmert.\n\nThe Israeli government also endorsed the resolution, with 24 ministers voting in favour and one, former Defence Minister Shaul Mofaz, abstaining.\n\nIn the first large-scale violation of the U.N.-brokered cease-fire between the sides, Israeli raided a Hezbollah stronghold deep inside Lebanon, that led to the killing of one their soldiers.\n\nUN Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Israel had violated the terms of the UN resolution that ended the fighting, and called on all parties to respect the embargo on unauthorised arms shipments to Lebanon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52589868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52589868", "title": "Chilean expansionism", "text": "Chilean expansionism\n\nChilean expansionism refers to the foreign policy of Chile to expand its territorial control over key strategic locations and economic resources as a means to ensure its national security and assert its geopolitical power in South America. Chile's significant territorial acquisitions, which occurred mostly throughout the 19th century, paved the way for its emergence as one of the three most powerful and wealthiest states in South America during the 20th century.\n\nAfter achieving its independence from Spain in 1818, Chile held control of territory spanning roughly the same boundaries of the colonial general captaincy that was under the control of the Spanish Empire's Viceroyalty of Peru. Under the \"uti possidetis iuris\" principle that delimited the international boundaries of the independent South American states, Chile bordered at its north with Bolivia in the Atacama Desert and at its east with Argentina. To the south Chile claimed all lands west of the Andes but controlled only the area down to Bío Bío River plus the area between Valdivia and Chiloé, with the rest either belonging to independent Mapuche of Araucanía or being sparsely populated by other tribes. The \"uti possidetis\" system proved ephemeral, nonetheless; the lack of formal border treaties caused disputes throughout the continent.\n\nThis period of uncertainty presented both challenges and opportunities for Chile, with regional instability creating a precarious state of diplomatic affairs but also allowing the growth of Chilean power ambitions. The Chilean national elite sought to ensure that the country's territorial limits and the regional balance of power would favor their economic and political aspirations. Thus, the country increased its military power, especially its naval presence, to pursue a policy of intimidation and force.\n\nTo its north, Chile imposed its dominance by eliminating the threat posed by the union of Bolivia with Peru during the War of the Confederation (1836-1839), followed by the conquest of these countries' mineral-rich territories in the Atacama during the War of the Pacific (1879-1884)—in the process leaving Bolivia landlocked and pillaging the Peruvian capital. To its south and east, Chile used military force and colonization to occupy Araucanía (1861-1883) and successfully dispute Argentine claims over westernmost Patagonia and the Strait of Magellan—the outbreak of war only narrowly avoided in multiple occasions. Chile's expansionist drive practically culminated with Easter Island's annexation in 1888, but vestiges of it continued well into the 20th century—\"e.g.\", the country's claim over Antarctic territory in 1940.\n\nAlthough Chile did not fulfill all of its territorial ambitions, its relative success attracted the attention of the Western Hemisphere's other major expansionist polity, the United States, and cemented Chile's status as a regional power in Latin America. Chile's territorial expansion also left a legacy of distrust with its neighbors, all of which continue having boundary disputes with Chile. The country's mistreatment of the non-Chilean inhabitants of its conquered territories, particularly the state-sponsored forced cultural assimilation process of \"Chilenization\", have further led to internal tensions and calls for greater autonomy, if not independence, from the Mapuche and the Rapa Nui.\nThe newly-independent Republic of Chile's territorial possessions, inherited from the colonial general captaincy (\"capitanía general\") that was under the control of the Spanish Empire's Viceroyalty of Peru, had left the state surrounded by undefined boundaries. Its northernmost settlement was Copiapó in the southern Atacama Desert, bordering Bolivia; however, its exact boundary was disputed until 1866, when both countries delimited their boundaries at the 24° South parallel from the Pacific Ocean. Its southernmost settlement was Concepción, a few kilometers north of the frontier fortifications between Chile and the Araucanía, the territory that the Mapuche indigenous peoples had successfully retained after defeating Spain in the Arauco War.\n\nTo its north, Chile imposed its dominance by eliminating the threat posed by the union of Bolivia with Peru during the War of the Confederation (1836-1839), followed by the conquest of these countries' mineral-rich territories in the Atacama during the War of the Pacific (1879-1884)—in the process leaving Bolivia landlocked and sacking the Peruvian capital. \n\nChile slowly started to expand its influence and to establish its borders. By the Tantauco Treaty, the archipelago of Chiloé was incorporated in 1826. The economy began to boom due to the discovery of silver ore in Chañarcillo, and the growing trade of the port of Valparaíso, which led to conflict over maritime supremacy in the Pacific with Peru. \n\nThe Boundary treaty of 1881 between Chile and Argentina confirmed Chilean sovereignty over the Strait of Magellan. As a result of the War of the Pacific with Peru and Bolivia (1879–83), Chile expanded its territory northward by almost one-third, eliminating Bolivia's access to the Pacific, and acquired valuable nitrate deposits, the exploitation of which led to an era of national affluence. Chile had joined the stand as one of the high-income countries in South America by 1870.\n\nTo its south and east, Chile used military force and colonization to occupy Araucanía (1861-1883) and successfully dispute Argentine claims over westernmost Patagonia and the Strait of Magellan—the outbreak of war only narrowly avoided in multiple occasions.\n\nAt the same time, attempts were made to strengthen sovereignty in southern Chile intensifying penetration into Araucanía and colonizing Llanquihue with German immigrants in 1848. Through the founding of Fort Bulnes by the Schooner Ancud under the command of John Williams Wilson, the Magallanes region joined the country in 1843, while the Antofagasta area, at the time part of, Bolivia, began to fill with people.\n\nChile's interest in expanding into the islands of the Pacific Ocean dates to the presidency of José Joaquín Prieto (1831-1841) and the ideology of Diego Portales, who considered that Chile's expansion into Polynesia was a natural consequence of its maritime destiny. The first stage of the country's expansionism into the Pacific began a decade later, in 1851, when—in response to an American incursion into the Juan Fernández Islands—Chile's government formally organized the islands into a subdelegation of Valparaíso. That same year, Chile's merchant fleet briefly succeeded in creating an agricultural goods exchange market that connected the Californian port of San Francisco with Australia, renewing Chile's economic interest in the Pacific. By 1861, Chile had established a lucrative enterprise across the Pacific, its national currency abundantly circulating throughout Polynesia and its merchants trading in the markets of Tahiti, New Zealand, Tasmania, Shanghai; negotiations were also made with the Spanish Philippines, and altercations reportedly occurred between Chilean and American whalers in the Sea of Japan. This period ended as a result of the Chilean merchant fleet's destruction by Spanish forces in 1866, during the Chincha Islands War.\n\nChile's Polynesian aspirations would again be awakened in the aftermath of the country's decisive victory against Peru in the War of the Pacific, which left the Chilean fleet as the dominant maritime force in the Pacific coast of the Americas. Valparaíso had also become the most important port in the Pacific coast of South America, providing Chilean merchants with the capacity to find markets in the Pacific for its new mineral wealth acquired from the Atacama. During this period, the Chilean intellectual and politician Benjamín Vicuña Mackenna (who served as senator in the National Congress from 1876 to 1885) was an influential voice in favor of Chilean expansionism into the Pacific—he considered that Spain's discoveries in the Pacific had been stolen by the British, and envisioned that Chile's duty was to create an empire in the Pacific that would reach Asia. In the context of this imperialist fervor is that, in 1886, Captain Policarpo Toro of the Chilean Navy proposed to his superiors the annexation of Easter Island; a proposal that attained support from President José Manuel Balmaceda because of the island's apparent strategic location and economic value. After Toro transferred the rights to the island's sheep ranching operations from Tahiti-based businesses to the Chilean-based Williamson-Balfour Company in 1887, Easter Island's annexation process was culminated with the signing of the \"Agreement of Wills\" between Rapa Nui chieftains and Toro, in name of the Chilean government, in 1888.\n\nIn 1978, amid direct negotiations attempting to settle the Beagle conflict, Chilean President Augusto Pinochet assured that Chile had no expansionist intentions, but that his government would \"defend the patrimony that belongs to it by right.\"\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Chile temporarily resolved its border disputes with Argentina with the Puna de Atacama Lawsuit of 1899 and the Cordillera of the Andes Boundary Case, 1902.\n\nChile's rise as a major geopolitical power in the South Pacific also had the consequence of placing it in direct confrontation with the United States.\n\nAccording to Chilean diplomat Juan Salazar Sparks, the political theories of Andrés Bello and Diego Portales were neither expansionist nor interventionist; rather, he argues, they believed that Chile's status as a maritime nation and its role as a promoter of Pan-Americanism rested on its moral leadership, cultural influence, and success in maintaining the regional balance of power. Moreover, he considers that Chile was forced into wars with Peru and Bolivia in order to protect the regional balance of power, and that the country's participation in the Chincha Islands War is evidence of its commitment to Pan-Americanism. Chilean researcher Felipe Sanfuentes also argues that Chile was not an expansionist country and considers that this perspective is promoted by Argentine irrendentism over Tierra del Fuego and Patagonia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47720143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47720143", "title": "Coalition of the Pleasant Scent of Servitude", "text": "Coalition of the Pleasant Scent of Servitude\n\nThe Coalition of the Pleasant Scent of Servitude or Sweet Scent of Servitude () was an Iranian principlist political group supporting Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and his government.\nThe group was founded a few months before the Iranian local elections, 2006, and was able to win seats in several City and Village Councils of Iran. They had no candidates in Ilam, Sari, Kerman, Gorgan and Khorramabad. According to Fars News Agency, the results were as follows:\nThey competed in the Iranian legislative election, 2008 as part of United Front of Conservatives. After the elections, their winning candidates formed a new fraction named \"Islamic Revolution\", claiming to have 90 members.\nIn 2010, some reports indicated a dispute inside the group, and in the Iranian legislative election, 2012, some members formed Stability Front, claiming not to support the followers of Ahmadinejad. Another newly formed group called Monotheism and Justice Front, was linked to Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.\n\n"}
{"id": "6734985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6734985", "title": "Confessional state", "text": "Confessional state\n\nA confessional state is a state which officially practices a particular religion, and at least encourages its citizens to do likewise.\n\nOver human history, many states have been confessional states. This is especially true in countries where Christianity, Islam and Buddhism were the religions of the state. The idea of religious pluralism in modern terms is relatively recent, and until the beginning of the 20th century, many if not most nations had state religions enshrined in their respective constitutions or by decree of the monarch, even if other religions were permitted to practice.\n\nHowever, there are many examples of large multicultural empires that have existed throughout time where the religion of the state was not imposed on subjected regions. For instance, the Mongol Empire, where Tengrism was the religion of the court, but not imposed on those ruled by the Mongols, the Achaemenid Empire and the Roman Empire before Constantine I, where regional clergies and practices were allowed to dominate as long as offerings were made to Roman Gods and tribute paid to Rome.\n\nReligious minorities are accorded differing degrees of tolerance under confessional states; adherents may or may not have a set of legal rights, and these rights may not be accessible in practice. For example, in medieval Europe Jewish people suffered various degrees of official and unofficial discrimination; during the same period in Islamic states, non-Muslims or dhimmi were legally inferior to Muslims but accorded certain protections.\n\nIn Europe, the 1648 Treaty of Westphalia institutionalized the principle of \"cuius regio, eius religio\"—that rulers of a state had the right to determine the religion of its subjects. This was in an effort to curb the religious warfare that had wracked Europe after the Protestant Reformation.\n\nSeveral of the Thirteen Colonies were confessional states, although of different denominations, before the American Revolution; Connecticut remained one until 1818. Other American states required each town or individual to support \"some\" religious body, without the state deciding which one; but this was also abolished, the last instance being Massachusetts, which restricted the obligation in 1821 and ended it in 1843. Both systems are unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and preference in matters of religion was forbidden in several colonies.\n\nThe confessional state is largely gone in the Western World, although in the Middle East, the confessional state, particularly in the form of the Islamic republic is still quite common. A number of modern countries have state religions; they usually also allow freedom of religion. An example of such a state is Costa Rica, a Catholic Confessional State. This status explains why sexual education, abortion and in vitro fertilization are considered highly controversial in Costa Rica.\n\n"}
{"id": "425279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425279", "title": "Containment", "text": "Containment\n\nContainment is a geopolitical strategy to stop the expansion of an enemy. It is best known as a Cold War foreign policy of the United States and its allies to prevent the spread of communism. As a component of the Cold War, this policy was a response to a series of moves by the Soviet Union to increase communist influence in Eastern Europe, China, Korea, Africa, Vietnam, and Latin America. Containment represented a middle-ground position between detente and rollback.\n\nThe basis of the doctrine was articulated in a 1946 cable by U.S. diplomat George F. Kennan during the post-World War II administration of U.S. President Harry S. Truman. As a description of U.S. foreign policy, the word originated in a report Kennan submitted to U.S. Defense Secretary James Forrestal in 1947, which was later used in a magazine article. It is a translation of the French term\" cordon sanitaire\", which was used to describe Western policy toward the Soviet Union in the 1920s.\n\nThere were major historical precedents familiar to Americans and Europeans. In the 1850s, anti-slavery forces in the United States developed a free soil strategy of containment, without using the word, to stop the expansion of slavery until it later collapsed. Historian James Oakes explains the strategy:\nThe Federal government would surround the south with free states, free territories, and free waters, building what they called a 'cordon of freedom' around slavery, hemming it in until the system's own internal weaknesses forced the slave states one by one to abandon slavery.\n\nBetween 1873 and 1877, Germany repeatedly intervened in the internal affairs of France's neighbors. In Belgium, Spain, and Italy, Bismarck exerted strong and sustained political pressure to support the election or appointment of liberal, anticlerical governments. This was part of an integrated strategy to promote republicanism in France by strategically and ideologically isolating the clerical-monarchist regime of President Patrice de Mac-Mahon. It was hoped that by ringing France with a number of liberal states, French republicans could defeat MacMahon and his reactionary supporters. The modern concept of containment provides a useful model for understanding the dynamics of this policy.\n\nFollowing the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution in Russia, there were calls by Western leaders to isolate the Bolshevik government, which seemed intent on promoting worldwide revolution. In March 1919, French Premier Georges Clemenceau called for a \"cordon sanitaire\", a ring of non-communist states, to isolate the Soviet Union. Translating that phrase, U.S. President Woodrow Wilson called for a \"quarantine.\" Both phrases compare communism to a contagious disease.\n\nThe U.S. initially refused to recognize the Soviet Union, but President Franklin D. Roosevelt reversed the policy in 1933 in the hope to expand American export markets.\n\nThe Munich Agreement of 1938 was a failed attempt to contain Nazi expansion in Europe. The U.S. tried to contain Japanese expansion in Asia in 1937 to 1941, and Japan reacted with its attack on Pearl Harbor.\n\nAfter Germany invaded the Soviet Union in 1941 during World War II, the U.S. and the Soviet Union found themselves allied against Germany and used rollback to defeat the Axis Powers: Germany, Italy, and Japan.\n\nKey State Department personnel grew increasingly frustrated with and suspicious of the Soviets as the war drew to a close. Averell Harriman, U.S. Ambassador in Moscow, once a \"confirmed optimist\" regarding U.S.-Soviet relations, was disillusioned by what he saw as the Soviet betrayal of the 1944 Warsaw Uprising as well as by violations of the February 1945 Yalta Agreement concerning Poland. Harriman would later have a significant influence in forming Truman's views on the Soviet Union.\n\nIn February 1946, the U.S. State Department asked George F. Kennan, then at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, why the Russians opposed the creation of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. He responded with a wide-ranging analysis of Russian policy now called the \"Long Telegram\":\n\nAccording to Kennan:\n\n\nKennan's cable was hailed in the State Department as \"the appreciation of the situation that had long been needed.\" Kennan himself attributed the enthusiastic reception to timing: \"Six months earlier the message would probably have been received in the State Department with raised eyebrows and lips pursed in disapproval. Six months later, it would probably have sounded redundant.\" Clark Clifford and George Elsey produced a report elaborating on the \"Long Telegram\" and proposing concrete policy recommendations based on its analysis. This report, which recommended \"restraining and confining\" Soviet influence, was presented to Truman on September 24, 1946.\n\nIn January 1947, Kennan drafted an essay entitled \"The Sources of Soviet Conduct.\" Navy Secretary James V. Forrestal gave permission for the report to be published in the journal \"Foreign Affairs\" under the pseudonym \"X.\" Biographer Douglas Brinkley has dubbed Forrestal \"godfather of containment\" on account of his work in distributing Kennan's writing. The use of the word \"containment\" originates from this so-called \"X Article\": \"In these circumstances it is clear that the main element of any United States policy toward the Soviet Union must be that of long-term, patient but firm and vigilant containment of Russian expansive tendencies.\"\n\nKennan later turned against the containment policy and noted several deficiencies in his X Article. He later said that by containment he meant not the containment of Soviet Power \"by military means of a military threat, but the political containment of a political threat.\" Second, Kennan admitted a failure in the article to specify the geographical scope of \"containment\", and that containment was not something he believed the United States could necessarily achieve everywhere successfully.\n\nAfter Republicans gained control of Congress in the 1946 elections, President Truman, a Democrat, made a dramatic speech that is often considered to mark the beginning of the Cold War. In March 1947, he requested that Congress appropriate $400 million in aid to the Greek and Turkish governments, which were fighting Communist subversion. Truman pledged to, \"support free peoples who are resisting attempted subjugation by armed minorities or by outside pressures.\" This pledge became known as the Truman Doctrine. Portraying the issue as a mighty clash between \"totalitarian regimes\" and \"free peoples,\" the speech marks the adoption of containment as official U.S. policy. Congress appropriated the money.\n\nTruman's motives on that occasion have been the subject of considerable scholarship and several schools of interpretation. In the orthodox explanation of Herbert Feis, a series of aggressive Soviet actions in 1945–47 in Poland, Iran, Turkey, and elsewhere awakened the American public to the new danger to freedom to which Truman responded. In the revisionist view of William Appleman Williams, Truman's speech was an expression of longstanding American expansionism. In the realpolitik view of Lynn E. Davis, Truman was a naive idealist who unnecessarily provoked the Soviets by couching disputes in terms like democracy and freedom that were alien to the Communist vision.\n\nAccording to psychological analysis by Deborah Larson, Truman felt a need to prove his decisiveness and feared that aides would make unfavorable comparisons between him and his predecessor, Roosevelt. \"I am here to make decisions, and whether they prove right or wrong I am going to take them,\" he once said.\n\nThe drama surrounding the announcement of the Truman Doctrine catered to president's self-image of a strong and decisive leader, but his real decision-making process was more complex and gradual. The timing of the speech was not a response to any particular Soviet action but to the fact that the Republican Party had just gained control of Congress. Truman was little involved in drafting the speech and did not himself adopt the hard-line attitude that it suggested until several months later.\n\nThe British, with their own position weakened by economic distress, urgently called on the U.S. to take over the traditional British role in Greece. Undersecretary of State Dean Acheson took the lead in Washington, warning congressional leaders in late February 1947 that if the United States did not take over from the British, the result most probably would be a \"Soviet breakthrough\" that \"might open three continents to Soviet penetration.\" Truman was explicit about the challenge of Communism taking control of Greece. He won wide support from both parties as well as experts in foreign policy inside and outside the government. It was strongly opposed by the Left, notably by former Vice President Henry A. Wallace, who ran against Truman in the 1948 presidential campaign.\n\nTruman, under the guidance of Acheson, followed up his speech with a series of measures to contain Soviet influence in Europe, including the Marshall Plan, or European Recovery Program, and NATO, a 1949 military alliance between the U.S. and Western European nations. Because containment required detailed information about Communist moves, the government relied increasingly on the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Established by the National Security Act of 1947, the CIA conducted espionage in foreign lands, some of it visible, more of it secret. Truman approved a classified statement of containment policy called NSC 20/4 in November 1948, the first comprehensive statement of security policy ever created by the United States. The Soviet Union's first nuclear test in 1949 prompted the National Security Council to formulate a revised security doctrine. Completed in April 1950, it became known as NSC 68. It concluded that a massive military buildup was necessary to deal with the Soviet threat. According to the report, drafted by Paul Nitze and others:\n\nThere were three alternative policies to containment under discussion in the late 1940s. The first was a return to isolationism, minimizing American involvement with the rest of the world, a policy that was supported by conservative Republicans, especially from the Midwest, including former President Herbert Hoover and Senator Robert A. Taft. However, many other Republicans, led by Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg, said that policy had helped cause World War II and so was too dangerous to revive.\n\nThe second policy was continuation of the détente policies that aimed at friendly relationships with the Soviet Union, especially trade. Roosevelt had been the champion of détente, but he was dead, and most of his inner circle had left the government by 1946. The chief proponent of détente was Henry Wallace, a former vice president and the Secretary of Commerce under Truman. Wallace's position was supported by far left elements of the CIO, but they were purged in 1947 and 1948. Wallace ran against Truman on the Progressive Party ticket in 1948, but his campaign was increasingly dominated by Communists, which helped to discredit détente.\n\nThe third policy was rollback, an aggressive effort to undercut or destroy the Soviet Union itself. Military rollback against the Soviet Union was proposed by James Burnham and other conservative strategists in the late 1940s. After 1954, Burnham and like-minded strategists became editors and regular contributors to William F. Buckley, Jr.'s \"National Review\" magazine.\n\nTruman himself adopted a rollback strategy in the Korean War after the success of the Inchon landings in September 1950, only to reverse himself after the Chinese counterattack two months later and revert to containment. General Douglas MacArthur called on Congress to continue the rollback policy, but Truman fired him for insubordination.\n\nUnder President Dwight Eisenhower, a rollback strategy was considered against communism in Eastern Europe from 1953 to 1956. Eisenhower agreed to a propaganda campaign to rollback the influence of communism psychologically, but he refused to intervene in the 1956 Hungarian Uprising, mainly for fear that it would cause the Third World War. Since 1950, the Soviets had been known to possess nuclear weapons.\n\nThe U.S. followed containment when it entered the Korean War to defend South Korea from a communist invasion by North Korea. However, the success of the Inchon landing inspired the U.S. and the United Nations to adopt a rollback strategy to overthrow communist North Korea, thus allowing nationwide elections under U.N. auspices. General Douglas MacArthur then advanced across the 38th parallel into North Korea. The Chinese then sent in a large army and defeated the U.N. forces, pushing them below the 38th parallel. Although the Chinese had been planning to intervene for months, this action was interpreted by Truman's supporters as a response to U.S. forces crossing the 38th parallel. That interpretation allowed the episode to be used to confirm the wisdom of the containment doctrine as opposed to rollback. The Communists were later pushed back to around the original border. Truman blamed MacArthur's focus on victory and adopted a \"limited war\" policy. His focus shifted to negotiating a settlement, which was finally reached in 1953. For his part, MacArthur denounced Truman's \"no-win policy.\"\n\nMany Republicans, including John Foster Dulles, were concerned that Truman had been too timid. In 1952, Dulles called for rollback and the eventual liberation of Eastern Europe. Dulles was named secretary of state by incoming President Eisenhower, but Eisenhower's decision not to intervene during the 1956 Hungarian Uprising made containment a bipartisan doctrine. Eisenhower relied on clandestine CIA actions to undermine hostile governments and used economic and military foreign aid to strengthen governments supporting the American position in the Cold War.\n\nIn the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962, the top officials in Washington debated using rollback to get rid of Soviet nuclear missiles, which were threatening the United States. There was fear of a nuclear war until a deal was reached in which the Soviets would publicly remove their nuclear weapons, the United States would secretly remove its missiles from Turkey and to avoid invading Cuba. The policy of containing Cuba was put into effect by President John F. Kennedy and continued until 2015.\n\nSenator Barry Goldwater, the Republican candidate for president in 1964, challenged containment and asked, \"Why not victory?\" President Lyndon Johnson, the Democratic nominee, answered that rollback risked nuclear war. Johnson explained containment doctrine by quoting the Bible: \"Hitherto shalt thou come, but not further.\" Goldwater lost to Johnson in the 1964 election by a wide margin. Johnson adhered closely to containment during the Vietnam War. Rejecting proposals by General William Westmoreland for U.S. ground forces to advance into Laos and cut communist supply lines, Johnson gathered a group of elder statesmen called The Wise Men. The group included Kennan, Acheson and other former Truman advisors.\n\nRallies in support of the troops were discouraged for fear that a patriotic response would lead to demands for victory and rollback. Military responsibility was divided among three generals so that no powerful theater commander could emerge to challenge Johnson as MacArthur had challenged Truman.\n\nNixon, who replaced Johnson in 1969, referred to his foreign policy as détente, a relaxation of tension. Although it continued to aim at restraining the Soviet Union, it was based on political realism, thinking in terms of national interest, as opposed to crusades against communism or for democracy. Emphasis was placed on talks with the Soviet Union concerning nuclear weapons called the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks. Nixon reduced U.S. military presence in Vietnam to the minimum required to contain communist advances, in a policy called Vietnamization. As the war continued, it grew less popular. A Democratic Congress forced Nixon, a Republican, to abandon the policy in 1973 by enacting the Case–Church Amendment, which ended U.S. military involvement in Vietnam and led to successful communist invasions of South Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia.\n\nPresident Jimmy Carter came to office in 1977 and was committed to a foreign policy that emphasized human rights. However, in response to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, containment was again made a priority. The wording of the Carter Doctrine (1980) intentionally echoed that of the Truman Doctrine.\n\nFollowing the communist victory of Vietnam, Democrats began to view further communist advance as inevitable, but Republicans returned to the rollback doctrine. Ronald Reagan, a long-time advocate of rollback, was elected US President in 1980. He took a more aggressive approach to dealings with the Soviets and believed that détente was misguided and peaceful coexistence was tantamount to surrender. When the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in 1979, American policy makers worried that the Soviets were making a run for control of the Persian Gulf. Throughout the 1980s, under a policy that came to be known as the Reagan Doctrine, the United States provided technical and economic assistance to the Afghan guerrillas fighting against the Soviet army (Mujahideen).\n\nBy sending military aid to anti-communist insurgents in Afghanistan, Angola, Cambodia, and Nicaragua, Reagan confronted existing communist governments and went beyond the limits of containment doctrine. He deployed the Pershing II missile in Europe and promoted research on a Strategic Defense Initiative, called \"Star Wars\" by its critics, to shoot down missiles fired at the United States.\n\nReagan's aim was to defeat the Soviets through an expensive arms buildup the Soviets could not match. However, Reagan continued to follow containment in several key areas. He pursued a comprehensive nuclear disarmament initiative called START I and policy toward Europe continued to emphasize a NATO-based defensive approach.\n\nThe end of the Cold War in 1991 marked the official end of the containment policy, but the U.S. kept its bases in the areas around Russia, such as those in Iceland, Germany, and Turkey. Also, much of the policy helped influence U.S. foreign policy in later years, such as during the War on Terror and dealing with post-Cold War dictators, such as Iraq's Saddam Hussein.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11854478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11854478", "title": "Council Muslim League", "text": "Council Muslim League\n\nThe Council Muslim League was a faction of the Pakistan Muslim League that divided from the Convention Muslim League that was supportive of the military regime of the President of Pakistan Gen. Ayub Khan. Sardar Muhammad Zafarullah, Mian Mumtaz Daultana, Sardar Shauket Hyat-Khan, Chaudhry Muhammad Husain Chattha, Khawaja Muhammad Safdar and Chaudhry Zahoor Elahi were prominent leaders of the Council Muslim League.\n"}
{"id": "5140429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5140429", "title": "Cranborne Money", "text": "Cranborne Money\n\nCranborne Money is the common name given to the annual payment to Opposition parties in the UK House of Lords to help them with their costs. It is named after Lord Cranborne, who was the leader of the House of Lords when it was introduced on 27 November 1996. Short Money is its counterpart in the House of Commons.\n\nIn addition to the above funds, the salaries of the Leader of the Opposition and Opposition Chief Whip in the House of Lords (as of 2014 the Labour Party) are also paid from public funds. In 2009/10 such payments amounted to £73,617 and £68,074 respectively.\n"}
{"id": "472615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=472615", "title": "Deputy leader", "text": "Deputy leader\n\nA deputy leader (in Scottish English, sometimes depute leader) in the Westminster system is the second-in-command of a political party, behind the party leader. Deputy leaders often become deputy prime minister when their parties are elected to government. The deputy leader may take on the role of the leader if the current leader is, for some reason, unable to perform their role as leader. For example, the deputy leader often takes the place of the party leader at Question Time sessions in their absence. They also often have other responsibilities of party management.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3386326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3386326", "title": "Estragole", "text": "Estragole\n\nEstragole (\"p\"-allylanisole, methyl chavicol) is a phenylpropene, a natural organic compound. Its chemical structure consists of a benzene ring substituted with a methoxy group and a propenyl group. It is an isomer of anethole, differing with respect to the location of the double bond. It is a colorless liquid, although impure samples can appear yellow. It is a component of various trees and plants, including turpentine (pine oil), anise, fennel, bay, tarragon, and basil. It is used in the preparation of fragrances. \n\nHundreds of tonnes of basil oil are produced annually by steam distillation of \"Ocimum basilicum\" (common basil). This oil is mainly estragole but also contains substantial amounts of linalool.\nEstragole is the primary constituent of essential oil of tarragon (comprising 60–75%). It is also present in pine oil, turpentine, fennel, anise (2%), \"Clausena anisata\" and \"Syzygium anisatum\".\n\nEstragole is used in perfumes and as a food additive for flavor. Upon treatment with potassium hydroxide, estragole converts to anethole. A known use of estragole is in the synthesis of magnolol.\n\nEstragole is suspected to be carcinogenic and genotoxic, as is indicated by a report of the European Union, Committee on Herbal Medicinal Products. Several studies have clearly established that the profiles of metabolism, metabolic activation, and covalent binding are dose dependent and that the relative importance diminishes markedly at low levels of exposure (i.e. these events are not linear with respect to dose). In particular, rodent studies show that these events are minimal probably in the dose range of 1–10 mg/kg body weight, which is approximately 100-1000 times the anticipated human exposure to this substance. For these reasons it is concluded that the present exposure to estragole resulting from consumption of herbal medicinal products (short time use in adults at recommended posology) does not pose a significant cancer risk. In the meantime exposure of estragole to sensitive groups such as young children, pregnant and breastfeeding women should be minimized. \n\nThe Scientific Committee on Food from the Health & Consumer Protection Directorate-General took a more concerned position and concluded that \"Estragole has been demonstrated to be genotoxic and carcinogenic. Therefore the existence of a threshold cannot be assumed and the Committee could not establish a safe exposure limit. Consequently, reductions in exposure and restrictions in use levels are indicated.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2758249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2758249", "title": "Falkland Islands sovereignty dispute", "text": "Falkland Islands sovereignty dispute\n\nSovereignty over the Falkland Islands () is disputed by Argentina and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe British claim to sovereignty dates from 1690, and the United Kingdom has exercised \"de facto\" sovereignty over the archipelago almost continuously since 1833. Argentina has long disputed this claim, having been in control of the islands for a few years prior to 1833. The dispute escalated in 1982, when Argentina invaded the islands, precipitating the Falklands War.\n\nContemporary Falkland Islanders overwhelmingly prefer to remain British. They gained full British citizenship with the British Nationality (Falkland Islands) Act 1983, after British victory in the Falklands War.\n\nFrance was the first country to establish de facto control in the Falkland Islands, with the foundation of Port Saint Louis in East Falkland by French explorer Louis Antoine de Bougainville, in 1764. The French colony consisted of a small fort and some settlements with a population of around 250. The Islands were named after the Breton port of St. Malo as the \"Îles Malouines\", which remains the French name for the islands. In 1766, France agreed to leave the islands to Spain, with Spain reimbursing de Bougainville and the St. Malo Company for the cost of the settlement. France insisted that Spain maintain the colony in Port Louis to prevent Britain from claiming the title to the Islands, and Spain agreed.\n\nIn 1493 Pope Alexander VI issued a Papal bull, \"Inter caetera\", dividing the New World between Spain and Portugal. The following year, the Treaty of Tordesillas between those countries agreed that the dividing line between the two should be 370 leagues west of the Cape Verde Islands. The Falklands lie on the western (Spanish) side of this line.\n\nSpain made claims that the Falkland Islands were held under provisions in the 1713 which settled the limits of the Spanish Empire in the Americas. However, the treaty only promised to restore the territories in the Americas held prior to the War of the Spanish Succession. The Falkland Islands was not held at the time, and were not mentioned in the treaty. When Spain discovered the British and French colonies on the Islands, a diplomatic row broke out among the claimants. In 1766, Spain and France, who were allies at the time, agreed that France would hand over Port Saint Louis, and Spain would repay the cost of the settlement. France insisted that Spain maintain the colony in Port Louis and thus prevent Britain from claiming the title to the Islands and Spain agreed. Spain and Great Britain enjoyed uneasy relations at the time, and no corresponding agreement was reached.\n\nThe Spanish took control of Port Saint Louis and renamed it Puerto Soledad in 1767. On 10 June 1770, a Spanish expedition expelled the British colony at Port Egmont, and Spain took de facto control of the Islands. Spain and Great Britain came close to war over the issue, but instead, concluded a treaty on 22 January 1771, allowing the British to return to Port Egmont with neither side relinquishing sovereignty claims. The British returned in 1771 but withdrew from the islands in 1774, leaving behind a flag and a plaque representing their claim to ownership, and leaving Spain in de facto control.\n\nFrom 1774 to 1811, the islands were ruled as part of the Viceroyalty of the River Plate. In that period, 18 governors were appointed to rule the islands. In 1777, Governor Ramon de Carassa was ordered to destroy the remains at Port Egmont. The British plaque was removed and sent to Buenos Aires.\n\nSpanish troops remained at Port Louis, known then as Port Soledad, until 1811 when Governor Pablo Guillen Martinez was called back to Montevideo as the revolutionary forces spread through the continent. He left behind a plaque claiming sovereignty for Spain.\n\nThe British first landed on the Falklands in 1690, when Captain John Strong sailed through Falkland Sound, naming this passage of water after Anthony Cary, 5th Viscount of Falkland, the First Lord of the Admiralty at that time. The British were keen to settle the islands as they had the potential to be a strategic naval base for passage around Cape Horn. In 1765, Captain John Byron landed on Saunders Island. He then explored the coasts of the other islands and claimed the archipelago for Britain. The following year, Captain John MacBride returned to Saunders Island and constructed a fort named Port Egmont. The British later discovered the French colony at Port Saint Louis (founded 1764), initiating the first sovereignty dispute.\n\nIn 1770 a Spanish military expedition was sent to the islands after authorities in Buenos Aires became aware of the British colony. Facing a greater force, the British were expelled from Port Egmont. The colony was restored a year later following British threats of war over the islands; However, in 1774, economic pressures leading up to the American Revolutionary War forced Great Britain to withdraw from the Falklands along with many of its other overseas settlements. they left behind a plaque asserting British sovereignty over the islands. Although there was no British administration in the islands, British and American sealers routinely used them to hunt for seals, also taking on fresh water as well as feral cattle, pigs and even penguins for provisions. Whalers also used the islands to shelter from the South Atlantic weather and to take on fresh provisions.\nLuis Vernet approached the British for permission to build a settlement at the former Spanish settlement of Puerto Soledad, initially in 1826 and again in 1828, following the failure of the earlier 1824 expedition. In addition, Vernet requested British protection for his settlement in the event of their returning to the islands. After receiving assurances from the British minister chargé d'affaires, Sir Woodbine Parish, Vernet provided regular reports to the British on the progress of his enterprise. He expressed the wish that, in the event of the British returning to the islands, the British Government would take his settlement under their protection; Parish duly passed this wish on to London. The British Consul Parish protested against Vernet's appointment as governor in 1829; the Government of the United Provinces of the River Plate merely acknowledged the protest. Britain protested again when Vernet announced his intention to exercise exclusive rights over fishing and sealing in the islands. (Similar protests were received from the American representative, who protested at the curtailment of established rights and stated that the United States did not recognise the jurisdiction of the United Provinces over the islands.) Vernet continued to provide regular reports to Parish throughout this period.\n\nThe raid of the in December 1831 combined with the United Provinces assertions of sovereignty were the spur for the British to establish a military presence on the islands.\nOn 2 January 1833, Captain James Onslow, of the brig-sloop HMS \"Clio\", arrived at the Spanish settlement at Port Louis to request that the Argentine flag be replaced with the British one, and that the Argentine administration leave the islands. While Argentine Lt. Col. José María Pinedo, commander of the Argentine schooner \"Sarandí\", wanted to resist, his numerical disadvantage was obvious, particularly as a large number of his crew were British mercenaries who were unwilling to fight their own countrymen. Such a situation was not unusual in the newly independent states in Latin America, where land forces were strong, but navies were frequently quite undermanned. He protested verbally, but departed without a fight on 5 January. The colony was set up and the islands continued under a British presence until the Falklands War.\n\nAfter their return in 1833, the British did not attempt to develop the islands as a colony. Initially, plans were based upon the settlers remaining in Port Louis, supported by the annual visit of a warship. Vernet's deputy, Matthew Brisbane, returned in March 1833 to take charge of the settlement and was encouraged to further Vernet's business interests provided he did not seek to assert Argentine Government authority. Following the Gaucho murders in August 1833, the Falklands were administered as a military outpost with the few remaining residents of Vernet's colony. The first British Resident, Lt Smith, was established in 1834 and under his administration and initiative the settlement recovered and began to prosper. Lt Smith's commanding officer was not enthusiastic about Royal Navy officers engaged in encouraging commerce, and rebuked Smith. Smith resigned, and subsequent Residents allowed the settlement to stagnate.\n\nIn 1841, General Rosas offered to relinquish any Argentine territorial claims in return for relief of debts owed to Barings Bank in the City of London. The British Government chose to ignore the offer.\n\nIn May 1840, under pressure from merchants in London, the decision was made to establish a permanent colony in the Falklands. A British colonial administration was formed in 1842. This was expanded in 1908, when in addition to South Georgia, claimed in 1775, and the South Shetland Islands, claimed in 1820, the UK unilaterally declared sovereignty over more Antarctic territory south of the Falklands, including the South Sandwich Islands, the South Orkney Islands, and Graham Land, grouping them into the Falkland Islands Dependencies.\n\nIn 1850, the Arana-Southern Treaty otherwise known as the was signed between the United Kingdom and Argentina. It has been argued by several authors on both sides of the dispute that Argentina tacitly gave up her claim by failing to mention it and ceasing to protest over the Falklands. Between December 1849 and 1941, the Falklands were not mentioned in the President's Messages to Congress.\n\nFollowing the introduction of the Antarctic Treaty System in 1959 the Falkland Islands Dependencies were reduced to include just South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands. Territory south of the 60th parallel was formed into a new dependency, the British Antarctic Territory, which overlaps claims by Argentina (Argentine Antarctica) and Chile (Antártica Chilena Province).\n\nIn 1976 the British Government commissioned a study on the future of the Falklands, which looked at the ability of the islands to sustain themselves, and the potential for economic development. The study was led by Lord Shackleton, son of the Antarctic explorer, Ernest Shackleton. Argentina reacted with fury to the study and refused to allow Lord Shackleton permission to travel to the islands from Argentina, forcing the British to send a Royal Navy ship to transport him to the islands. In response Argentina severed diplomatic links with the UK. An Argentine naval vessel later fired upon the ship carrying Shackleton as he visited his father's grave in South Georgia.\n\nShackleton's report found that contrary to popular belief, the Falkland Islands actually produced a surplus by its economic activities, and was not dependent on British aid to survive. However the report stressed the need for a political settlement if further economic growth was to be achieved, particularly from the exploitation of any natural resources in the water around the islands.\n\nArgentina declared its independence from Spain in 1816, although this was not then recognised by any of the major powers. The UK informally recognised Argentine independence on 15 December 1823, as the \"province of Buenos Aires\", and formally recognised it on 2 February 1825,\nbut, like the US, did not recognise the full extent of the territory claimed by the new state.\n\nIn October 1820, the frigate \"Heroína\", under the command of American privateer Colonel David Jewett, arrived in Puerto Soledad after an eight-month voyage and with most of her crew incapacitated by scurvy and other disease. A storm had severely damaged the \"Heroína\" and had sunk a Portuguese ship pirated by Jewett called the \"Carlota\". The captain sought assistance from the British explorer James Weddell to put the ship into harbour. Weddell reported that only thirty seamen and forty soldiers out of a complement of 200 were fit for duty, and that Jewett slept with pistols over his head following an attempted mutiny. On 6 November 1820, Jewett raised the flag of the United Provinces of the River Plate and claimed possession of the islands for the new state. Weddell reported that the letter he received from Jewett read:\nMany modern authors report this letter as the declaration issued by Jewett. Jewett's report to the government of Buenos Aires does not mention any claim to the Falkland Islands, and news of the claim reached Argentina by way of the United States and Europe in November 1821, over a year after the event.\nIn 1823, the Buenos Aires government granted land on East Falkland to Jorge Pacheco, a businessman from Buenos Aires who owed money to the merchant Luis Vernet. A first expedition travelled to the islands the following year, arriving on the East Falkland on 2 February 1824. This was deemed as \"a failure\" by author Mary Cawkell: \"A week after arrival in February 1824, Areguati sent a despairing letter to Pacheco.\" Its leader was Pablo Areguatí, who brought with him 25 gauchos. Ten days later Areguatí wrote that the colony was perishing because the horses they had brought were too weak to be used, thus they could not capture wild cattle and their only other means of subsistence was wild rabbits. On 7 June, Areguatí left the islands, taking with him 17 gauchos. On 24 July, the remaining eight gauchos were rescued by the \"Susannah Anne\", a British sealer. After the failure, Pacheco agreed to sell his share to Vernet.\n\nA second attempt, in 1826, sanctioned by the British (but delayed until winter by a Brazilian blockade), also failed after arrival in the islands. In 1828, the Buenos Aires government granted Vernet all of East Falkland, including all its resources, with exemption from taxation for 20 years, if a colony could be established within three years. He took settlers, including British Captain Matthew Brisbane, and before leaving once again sought permission from the British Consulate in Buenos Aires. The British asked for a report on the islands for the British government, and Vernet asked for British protection should they return.\n\nOn Vernet's return to the Falklands, Puerto Soledad was renamed Puerto Luis. The Buenos Aires Government, headed by General Juan Galo de Lavalle (who took the governorship by force on 1 December 1828, and executed the elected governor Manuel Dorrego) appointed Vernet \"Political and Military Commander\" in a decree of 13 June 1829. The British objected to this as an Argentine attempt to foster political and economic ties to the islands. One of Vernet's first acts was to curb seal hunting on the islands to conserve the dwindling seal population. In response, the British consul at Buenos Aires protested the move and restated the claim of his government. Islanders were born during this period (including Malvina María Vernet y Saez, Vernet's daughter).\n\nVernet later seized three American ships, the \"Harriet\", \"Superior\" and \"Breakwater\", for disobeying his restrictions on seal hunting. The \"Breakwater\" escaped to raise the alarm and the \"Superior\" was allowed to continue its work for Vernet's benefit. Property on board the \"Harriet\" was seized and Vernet returned with it to Buenos Aires for the captain to stand trial. The American Consul in Argentina protested Vernet's actions and stated that the United States did not recognise Argentine sovereignty in the Falklands. The consul dispatched a warship, the USS \"Lexington\", to Puerto Luis to retake the confiscated property.\n\nBy 1831, the colony was successful enough to be advertising for new colonists, although a report by the captain of the \"Lexington\" suggests that the conditions on the islands were quite miserable. The captain of the \"Lexington\" in his report asserts that he destroyed the settlement's powder store and spiked the guns; however it was later claimed that during the raid the Argentine settlement at Puerto Luis was destroyed. Upon leaving to return to Montevideo, the captain of the \"Lexington\" declared the islands to be \"res nullius\" (nobody's property). (Darwin's visit in 1833 confirmed the squalid conditions in the settlement, although Captain Matthew Brisbane (Vernet's deputy) later insisted that these were the result of the attack by the \"Lexington\".) Vernet had returned to Buenos Aires in 1831 before the attack, and resigned as governor. An interim governor, Esteban José Francisco Mestivier, was appointed by the Buenos Aires Government. He arrived at Puerto Luis with his family aboard the schooner \"Sarandí\" in October 1832. Mestivier's appointment again drew protests from the British consul in Buenos Aires.\n\nThe \"Sarandí\", under the command of its captain, José María Pinedo, then began to patrol the surrounding seas. Upon its return to Puerto Luis on 29 December 1832, the \"Sarandí\" found the colony in an uproar. In Pinedo's absence there had been a mutiny led by a man named Gomila; Mestivier had been murdered and his wife raped. The captain of the French vessel \"Jean Jacques\" had meanwhile provided assistance, disarming and incarcerating the mutineers. Pinedo dispatched the mutineers to Buenos Aires with the British schooner \"Rapid\". Gomila was condemned to exile, while seven other mutineers were executed.\n\nOn 2 January 1833, Captain John Onslow arrived and delivered written requests that Pinedo lower the Argentine flag in favour of the British one, and that the Argentine administration leave the islands. Pinedo asked if war had been declared between Argentina and the United Kingdom; Onslow replied that it had not. Nonetheless, Pinedo, heavily outmanned and outgunned, left the islands under protest, with the Argentine flag being lowered by British officers and delivered to him. Argentines subsequently claimed that the population of Puerto Luis was expelled at the same time, though contemporary sources dispute this, suggesting that the colonists were encouraged to remain under Vernet's deputy, Matthew Brisbane. It is also documented that at least 27 members of Vernet's colony were still in residence in the islands in July 1833. Back on the mainland, Pinedo faced court martial; he was suspended for four months and transferred to the army, though he was recalled to the navy in 1845.\n\nIt is said that in 1833, Manuel Moreno (representing the United Provinces) protested against the British occupation of the islands, and the issue was then debated in the Argentine Congress every year until 1849, with a formal protest issued each year. The British government denies this. It is also stated that the British rejected the initial protest, and did not answer the subsequent protests; and that the matter was not raised again in Congress until 1941.\nThe American sealing vessels \"Harriet\" and \"Breakwater\" that had been seized by Vernet (see above) brought claims against their insurers, and in 1839 these claims reached the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of \"Williams v. Suffolk Insurance Company\". The insurers argued that Vernet was the legal governor of the Falkland Islands, the sealing was therefore illegal and so they ought not to have to pay. The ruling of the Supreme Court was:\n\nThe government of the United States having insisted, and continuing to insist, through its regular executive authority, that the Falkland Islands do not constitute any part of the dominions within the sovereignty of Buenos Ayres, and that the seal fishery at those islands is a trade free and lawful to the citizens of the United States, and beyond the competence of the Buenos Ayres government to regulate, prohibit, or punish, it is not competent for a circuit court of the United States to inquire into and ascertain by other evidence the title of the government of Buenos Ayres to the sovereignty of the Falkland Islands.\nThe 1850 , otherwise known as the Arana-Southern Treaty, which did not mention the islands, agreed to restore \"perfect relations of friendship\" between the two countries. There were no further protests until 1885, when Argentina included the Falkland Islands in an officially sponsored map.. In 1888, Argentina made an offer to have the matter subject to arbitration, but this was rejected by the British Government.. Other than the protest lodged in 1885, the British Government did not acknowledge any further protests by Argentina until the 1940s, although the official position of the Argentine Government is that \"During the first half of the twentieth century, the successive Argentine governments made it standard practice to submit protests to the United Kingdom\". The Argentine Government does not identify these annual protests, but authors such as Roberto Laver claim at least \"27 sovereignty claims, both to Britain, domestically in Argentina and to international bodies\". In International Law, territorial claims are usually considered defunct if there is a gap of 50 years or more between protests over sovereignty.\n\nFollowing World War II, the British Empire declined, and many colonies in Asia, Africa and the Caribbean gained their independence. Argentina saw this as an opportunity to push its case for gaining sovereignty over the Falkland Islands, and raised the issue in the United Nations, first stating its claim after joining the UN in 1945. Following this claim, the United Kingdom offered to take the dispute over the Falkland Islands Dependencies to mediation at the International Court of Justice in The Hague (1947, 1948 and 1955). On each occasion Argentina declined.\n\nIn 1965, the United Nations passed a resolution calling on the UK and Argentina to proceed with negotiations on finding a peaceful solution to the sovereignty question which would be \"bearing in mind the provisions and objectives of the Charter of the United Nations and of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and the interests of the population of the Falkland Islands (Malvinas).\"\n\nA series of talks between the two nations took place over the next 17 years until 1981, but failed to reach a conclusion on sovereignty. Although the sovereignty discussions had some success in establishing economic and transport links between the Falklands and Argentina, there was no progress on the question of sovereignty of the islands.\n\nFollowing the signing of the Communications Agreement, on 3 July 1971 the Argentine Air Force broke the islands' airways isolation by opening an air route with an amphibious flight from Comodoro Rivadavia with Grumman HU-16B Albatross aircraft operated by LADE, Argentina's military airline. In 1972, after an Argentine request, the United Kingdom agreed to allow Argentina to construct a temporary air strip near Stanley. On 15 November 1972 a temporary runway was inaugurated with the first arrival of a Fokker F-27; subsequent flights arrived twice weekly. Flights were improved in 1978 with Fokker F-28 jets, after the completion of a permanent runway funded by the British Government. This service, the only air connection to the islands, was maintained until the 1982 war.\n\nAlso YPF, which was then the Argentine national oil and gas company, was in charge of supplying the island regularly.\n\nWhilst maintaining the British claim, the British Government considered a transfer of sovereignty less than two years before the outbreak of war. However, the British Government had limited room for manoeuvre owing to the strength of the Falkland Islands lobby in the Houses of Parliament. Any measure that the Foreign Office suggested on the sovereignty issue was loudly condemned by the islanders, who reiterated their determination to remain British. This led to the British Government maintaining a position that the right to self-determination of the islanders was paramount. But Argentina did not recognise the rights of the islanders, and so negotiations on the sovereignty issue remained at a stalemate.\n\nIn 1976, Argentina landed an expedition in Southern Thule, an island in the South Sandwich Islands which at that time was part of the Falkland Islands Dependency. The landing was reported in the UK only in 1978, although the British government issued a rejection of the notion of sending a force of Royal Marines to dismantle the Argentine base Corbeta Uruguay.\n\nThere was a more serious confrontation in 1977 when the Argentine Navy cut off the fuel supply to Port Stanley Airport, and said they would no longer fly the Red Ensign in Falklands waters. (Traditionally ships in a foreign country's waters would fly the country's maritime flag as a courtesy.) The British Government suspected Argentina would attempt another expedition in the manner of its Southern Thule operation. James Callaghan, the British Prime Minister, ordered the dispatch of a nuclear submarine, HMS \"Dreadnought\" and the frigates \"Alacrity\" and \"Phoebe\" to the South Atlantic, with rules of engagement set in the event of a clash with the Argentine navy. The British even considered setting up an exclusion zone around the islands, but this was rejected in case it escalated matters. These events were not made public until the Parliamentary debates in 1982 during the Falklands War.\n\nThe Falklands War of 1982 was the largest and most severe armed conflict over the sovereignty of the islands. It started following the occupation of South Georgia by Argentine scrap merchants whose number included some Argentine Marines. However, the UK had also reduced its presence in the Islands by announcing the withdrawal of HMS \"Endurance\", the Royal Navy's icebreaker ship and only permanent presence in the South Atlantic. The UK had also denied Falkland Islanders full British citizenship under the British Nationality Act 1981.\nIn 1982, Argentina was in the midst of a devastating economic crisis and large-scale civil unrest against the repressive military junta that was governing the country. On 2 April, with Argentine Navy commander-in-chief Admiral Jorge Anaya as the main architect and supporter of the operation, a combined Argentine amphibious force invaded the Islands. Immediately, the UK severed diplomatic ties with Argentina, and began to assemble a task force to retake the Islands. A diplomatic offensive began, to gain support for economic and military sanctions. The United Nations Security Council issued Resolution 502 calling on Argentina to withdraw forces from the Islands and on both parties to seek a diplomatic solution. Another resolution called for an immediate ceasefire, but this was vetoed by both the United States and the United Kingdom. The European Community condemned the invasion and imposed economic sanctions on Argentina, although several EC states expressed reservations about British policy in this area, and two EC states (Denmark and the Republic of Ireland) defected from co-operation. France and Germany also temporarily suspended several military contracts with the Argentine military. The United States supported mediated talks, via Secretary of State Alexander Haig, and initially took a neutral stance, although in private substantial material aid was made available to the UK from the moment of invasion. The US publicly supported the UK's position following the failure of peace talks.\n\nThe British Task Force began offensive action against Argentina on 23 April 1982 and recaptured South Georgia after a short naval engagement. The operation to recover the Falkland Islands began on 1 May, and after fierce naval and air engagements an amphibious landing was made at San Carlos Bay on 21 May. On 14 June the Argentine forces surrendered, and control of the islands returned to the UK. Two Royal Navy ships then sailed to the South Sandwich Islands and expelled the Argentine military from Thule Island, leaving no Argentine presence in the Falkland Islands Dependencies.\n\nFollowing the 1982 war, the British increased their presence in the Falkland Islands. RAF Mount Pleasant was constructed. This allowed fighter jets to be based on the islands and strengthened the UK's ability to reinforce the Islands at short notice. The military garrison was substantially increased and a new garrison was established on South Georgia. The Royal Navy South Atlantic patrol was strengthened to include both HMS \"Endurance\" and a Falkland Islands guard ship.\n\nAs well as this military build-up, the UK also passed the British Nationality (Falkland Islands) Act 1983, which granted full British citizenship to the islanders. To show British commitment to the islands, high-profile British dignitaries visited the Falklands, including Margaret Thatcher, the Prince of Wales and Princess Alexandra, The Hon Lady Ogilvy. The UK has also pursued links to the islands from Chile, which had provided help to British Forces during the Falklands War. LATAM now provides a direct air link to Chile from Mount Pleasant.\n\nIn 1985 the Falkland Islands Dependencies, comprising at that time the island groups of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, and Shag Rocks and Clerke Rocks, became a distinct British overseas territory — South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.\n\nUnder the 1985 constitution the Falkland Islands Government (FIG) became a parliamentary representative democratic dependency, with the governor as head of government and representative of the Queen. Members of the FIG are democratically elected, the governor is effectively a figurehead. Theoretically the governor has the power under the 1985 constitution to exercise executive authority, in practice he is obliged to consult the Executive Council in the exercise of his functions. The main responsibilities of the governor are external affairs and public services. Effectively under this constitution, the Falkland Islands are self-governing with the exception of foreign policy, although the FIG represents itself at the United Nations Special Committee on Decolonisation as the British Government no longer attends.\n\nRelations between the UK and Argentina remained hostile after 1982, and diplomatic relations were restored in 1989. Although the United Nations General Assembly passed a resolution calling for the UK and Argentina to return to negotiations over the Islands' future, the UK ruled out any further talks over the Islands' sovereignty. The UK has also maintained controls on arms exports to Argentina, although these were relaxed in 1998.\n\nRelations between the UK and Argentina improved further in the 1990s. In 1998, Carlos Menem, the President of Argentina, visited London, where he reaffirmed his country's claims to the Islands, although he stated that Argentina would use only peaceful means for their recovery. In 2001, Tony Blair, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, visited Argentina and said he hoped the UK and Argentina could resolve their differences that led to the 1982 war. However, no talks on sovereignty took place during the visit, and Argentina's President Néstor Kirchner stated that he regarded gaining sovereignty over the islands as a \"top priority\" of his government.\n\nArgentina renewed claims in June 2006, citing concern over fishing and petroleum rights; the UK changed from annually granting fishing concessions, to granting a 25-year concession. On 28 March 2009, UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown stated that there was \"nothing to discuss\" with Cristina Kirchner, the Argentine president, over sovereignty of the islands, when they met in Chile on his pre-2009 G-20 London Summit world tour. On 22 April 2009 Argentina presented to the UN a formal claim to an area of the continental shelf encompassing the Falklands, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands, and parts of Antarctica, citing 11 years worth of maritime survey data. The UK quickly protested these claims.\n\nIn February 2010, in response to British plans to begin drilling for oil, the Argentine government announced that ships travelling to the Falklands (as well as South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands) would require a permit to use Argentine territorial waters. The British and Falkland governments stated that this announcement did not affect the waters surrounding the islands. Despite the new restrictions, Desire Petroleum began drilling for oil on 22 February 2010, about (100 km, 62 mi) north of the Islands.\n\nIn 2011 the Mercosur bloc agreed to close ports to ships flying the Falkland Islands flags, while British-flagged ships would continue to be allowed.\n\nIn March 2013 the Falkland Islanders voted overwhelmingly in a referendum for the territory to remain British. Argentina dismissed this referendum. The British Government urged Argentina and other countries to respect the islanders' wishes.\nThe Argentine government argues that it has maintained a claim over the Falkland Islands since 1833, and renewed it as recently as December 2012. It considers the archipelago part of the Tierra del Fuego Province, along with South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.\n\nSupporters of the Argentine position make the following claims:\n\nIn 1789, both the United Kingdom and Spain attempted settlement in the Nootka Sound, on Vancouver Island. On 25 October 1790, these two Kingdoms approved the Nootka Sound Convention. The Conventions included provisions recognising that the coasts and islands of South America colonised by Spain at the time were Spanish, and that areas south of the southernmost settlements were off limits to both countries, provided (in a secret article) that no third party settled there either. The conventions were unilaterally repudiated by Spain in 1795 but implicitly revived by the Treaty of Madrid in 1814.\n\nThe sixth article of the convention states:\nWhether or not this affected sovereignty over the islands is disputed. The British argue that the agreement did not affect the respective claims and only stipulated that neither party would make further establishments on the coasts or \"adjacent\" islands already held by Spain. Argentina argues that \"the islands adjacent\" includes the Falklands and that the UK renounced any claim by the agreements.\n\nThe Argentine claim is included in the transitional provisions of the Constitution of Argentina as amended in 1994:\n\nIn addition, Argentina demonstrates its claim to the islands by stating they are part of its Tierra del Fuego Province.\n\nIn 1964 the Argentine government raised the matter at the United Nations in a sub-committee of the Special Committee on the situation with regard to the implementation of the UN Declaration of the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. In reply, the British Representative on the committee declared that the British Government held that the question of sovereignty over the islands was \"not negotiable\". Following a report by the Special Committee, UN General Assembly Resolution 2065 was passed on 16 December 1965. In its preamble it referred to the UN's \"cherished aim to bring colonialism to an end everywhere\", and invited both nations to proceed with negotiations to find a peaceful solution bearing in mind \"the interests of the population of the Falkland Islands (Malvinas)\".\n\nIn January 1966 the British Foreign Secretary, Michael Stewart, visited Buenos Aires when the Argentine claim to the islands was raised with him, following which, in July, a preliminary meeting was held in London, where the British delegation \"formally rejected\" the Argentine Ambassador's suggestion that the UK's occupation of the Islands was illegal.\n\nOn 2 December 1980, Nicholas Ridley, Minister of State at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, stated in the House of Commons: \"We have no doubt about our sovereignty over the Falkland Islands... we have a perfectly valid title\". The British government regards the right of the islanders to self-determination as \"paramount\" and rejects the idea of negotiations over sovereignty without the islanders' consent. Supporters of the British position argue:\n\nThe Constitution of the Falkland Islands, which came into force on 1 January 2009, claims the right to self-determination, specifically mentioning political, economic, cultural, and other matters.\n\nArgentina has pursued an aggressive diplomatic agenda, regularly raising the issue and seeking international support. Most South American countries have expressed support for the Argentine position and called for negotiations to restart at regional summits. The People's Republic of China has backed Argentina's sovereignty claim, reciprocating Argentina's support of the Chinese claim to Taiwan. Conversely, the Republic of China (Taiwan) acknowledges British sovereignty and ignores Argentina's sovereignty claim.\n\nSince 1964, Argentina has lobbied its case at the Decolonization Committee of the UN, which annually recommends dialogue to resolve the dispute. The UN General Assembly has passed several resolutions on the issue. In 1988, the General Assembly reiterated a 1965 request that both countries negotiate a peaceful settlement to the dispute and respect the interests of the Falkland Islanders and the principles of UN GA resolution 1514.\n\nThe United States and the European Union recognise the de facto administration of the Falkland Islands and take no position over their sovereignty; however, the EU classifies the islands as an overseas country or territory of the UK, subject to EU law in some areas. The Commonwealth of Nations listed the islands as a British Overseas Territory in their 2012 yearbook. At the OAS summits Canada has continued to state its support for the islanders' right to self-determination.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47091456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47091456", "title": "General Administration Department", "text": "General Administration Department\n\nThe General Administration Department (, abbreviated GAD) is an civil service body that staffs all regional and state-level governments in Myanmar and provides administration for the country's myriad districts and townships.\n\nIt also plays a central role in administering the country's administrative capital of Naypyidaw, as the Constitution of Myanmar stipulates that the head of GAD is the secretary of the Naypyidaw Council, and that the GAD offices are to be co-located with the Naypyidaw Council offices.\n\n"}
{"id": "23892201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23892201", "title": "Getting to Yes", "text": "Getting to Yes\n\nGetting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement Without Giving In is a best-selling 1981 non-fiction book by Roger Fisher and William L. Ury. Subsequent editions in 1991 and 2011 added Bruce Patton as co-author. All of the authors were members of the Harvard Negotiation Project. The book made appearances for years on the \"Business Week\" bestseller list. The book suggests a method called principled negotiation or \"negotiation of merits\".\n\nMembers of the Harvard Negotiation Project, Fisher and Ury focused on the psychology of negotiation in their method, \"principled negotiation\", finding acceptable solutions by determining which needs are fixed and which are flexible for negotiators. By 1987, the book had been adopted in several U.S. school districts to help students understand \"non-adversarial bargaining\". In 1991, the book was issued in a second edition with Bruce Patton, an editor of the first edition, listed as a co-author. The book became a perennial best-seller. By July 1998, it had been appearing for more than three years on the \"Business Week\" \"Best-Seller\" book list. As of December 2007, it was still making appearances on the list as one of the \"Longest Running Best Sellers\" in paperback business books. The third edition was published in 2011.\n\nThe method of principled negotiation was developed at the Harvard Program on Negotiation by Fisher, Ury, and Patton. Its purpose is to reach agreement without jeopardizing business relations. The method is based on five propositions:\n\nThe first principle of \"Getting to Yes\"—\"Separate the people from the problem\"—applies to the interaction between the two parties to a negotiation. The principle is broken down into three subcategories: perception, emotion, and communication. The authors point out that negotiators are people first—people who have values, cultural backgrounds, and emotions that vary by person. \"Getting to Yes\" teaches that this human aspect can be either helpful or disastrous. Negotiation can either build trust and understanding with a positive relationship established at the end, or lead to frustration or dissatisfaction. The authors discuss how the relationship between parties tends to become entangled with the problem that the parties are discussing.\n\nIncorrectly deducing the intentions of the other party based on one's own fear is a common mistake; the authors describe it as a bad habit that could cost \"fresh ideas in the direction of agreement\". The authors explain that feelings are just as important as the content of the dispute during negotiation. Communication is the main aspect of negotiating, and the authors point out three common problems in communication:\n\nSimilarly, in the book, \"I Win You Win\", Carl Lyons explored the principle of \"separating the person from the problem\" and discovered that interests are an extension of values. People's current interests are always attempting to satisfy something that they value. Understanding this principle is a key first step in understanding people's behavior in negotiations.\n\nThe second principle—\"Focus on interests, not positions\"—is about the position that the parties hold and the interests that led them to that position. The authors recommend that negotiators should focus on the interests behind the position that each party holds. Both parties should discuss their interests and keep an open mind to the other side of the argument. It is crucial to put yourself in the shoes of the other side to try to understand \"why\" the other side is acting the way they are or rather \"why they are not\". The authors state that \"the most powerful interests are basic human needs\".\n\nThe third principle—\"Invent options for mutual gain\"—is about benefiting both parties that are doing business. This principle aims to help the parties find an option that will impact each party in a positive way, making both sides feel like they did not get taken advantage of during the negotiation. It is important to listen to the other party and not make a decision until both parties feel that they have been heard. Both parties should clearly explain their intentions and what they want out of the conversation.\n\nThe fourth principle—\"Insist on using objective criteria\"—is about making sure that the conversation stays on topic and that it is productive. The parties are making deals based on objective and practical criteria. The three steps to using objective criteria are to find out what the other party's intentions are, keep an open mind, and never give in to pressure or threats. Each party is in charge of keeping the other party committed to the conversation.\n\nThe fifth principle—\"Know your BATNA (Best Alternative To Negotiated Agreement)\"—emphasizes that no method can guarantee success if all the leverage lies on the other side. The authors suggest two methods of going about negotiating from a position of power. First, each party should protect themselves first. Second, each party should make the most of the power within their own assets to negotiate and win against the opposite party.\n\nWhen negotiating, the parties must resist the urge to constantly compromise for fear of completely losing the negotiation. Such compromises may allow for a shorter negotiation, but may also leave the primary party with a deal that didn't benefit them to the full extent. Establishing a \"bottom line\" can protect the negotiator's final offer, but may limit the ability to learn from the negotiation itself and may preclude further negotiation that possibly could result in a better advantage for all parties involved. When considering final decisions, each party may want to take a step back and consider all possible alternatives to the current offer being made. One example in the book describes a house on the market: Thinking of all other possibilities if the house were not sold should be compared with the option of selling the house to ensure the best decision is made.\n\nThe article \"Taking steps toward 'Getting to Yes' at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Florida\" highlights principled negotiation in practice by a major insurance company. Blue Cross and Blue Shield—aware of increasing competition, rising healthcare prices, and increased customer expectations—sought to highlight other parties' interests when creating policies so as not to drive away business. The authors noted that applying principled negotiation techniques came much more naturally at the executive level and needed more practice at lower levels of management.\n\nJames J. White, a professor of law at the University of Michigan, suggested that \"Getting to Yes\" is not scholarly or analytical and relies on anecdotal evidence, and that \"the authors seem to deny the existence of a significant part of the negotiation process, and to oversimplify or explain away many of the most troublesome problems inherent in the art and practice of negotiation\". There is no quantitative evidence presented that suggests outcomes using this technique will typically be better than an alternative method, such as positional bargaining.\n\n\"Getting Past No\" is a reference book on collaborative negotiation in difficult situations, written by William L. Ury. First published in September 1991 and revised in 2007, this book is the sequel to \"Getting to Yes\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35496327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35496327", "title": "Great Father and Great Mother", "text": "Great Father and Great Mother\n\nGreat Father and Great Mother were titles used by colonial powers in North America during the 19th century to refer to the President of the United States, the Monarch of Canada, the King of Spain, or the King of France during interactions with indigenous peoples. Contrary to depictions in popular culture, there are no recorded instances of the terms \"Great White Father\" being used to refer to the U.S. president. The addition of the word \"white\" may have entered popular lexicon via western adventure novels.\n\nFirst Nations peoples and Native Americans most often organized themselves by clan and family; ties of kinship were considered central to intertribal relations and the understanding of tribal political power. In the Iroquois Confederacy, for instance, the relations between individual bands were metaphorically described using paternal (parent to child), or fraternal (sibling to sibling) terms to indicate the importance of two groups in relation to each other. Within this context, and to make themselves better understood during treaty negotiations, British representatives often referred to Jehovah (aka God or the Lord) as \"the Great Father\" (see: Great Spirit). \n\nIt was also possible to refer to the British monarchs King George III and Queen Victoria as \"the Great Father\" and \"the Great White Mother\" respectively, and to the native people as his or her \"Red Children.\" David Laird invoked the phrase while explaining Treaty 7 to the Blackfoot:\n\nThe anthropologist Raymond DeMallie has explained that - due to the nature of Native American society - the use of kinship terms such as \"Great Father\" and \"Great Mother\" was a cunning diplomatic tactic, and not an assertion of Native inferiority. In many cases the representatives who negotiated treaties on behalf of the \"Great Father\" referred to themselves as the \"brothers\" of indigenous peoples; among some tribes it was a grave offense to refuse anything to a brother.\n\nIn the United States, the primacy of the Great Father was promoted through elaborate displays of military pageantry, the use of mystical language to describe the far-removed President, and the distribution of \"peace medals\" bearing the portrait of the sitting head of state (giving gifts, such as peace medals, further reinforced the paternal nature of the relationship as gift giving, in many Native cultures, was typically reserved for parent-child interaction). As in Canada, Native peoples were referred to as the \"children\" of the Great Father; so intense was the myth created surrounding him that chiefs brought to Washington, D.C. to meet the President often manifested symptoms of terror prior to an audience. Lean Bear, upon being presented to Abraham Lincoln at the White House, reportedly found himself suddenly unable to speak. Winnebago chief Hoowaneka recalled his audience with John Quincy Adams by explaining \"I thought I was in heaven, and the old man there, I thought was the Great Spirit.\"\n\nAn example of an invocation of the term \"Great Father\" by an American official can be found in a decree given by Thomas L. McKenney to the Menominee, in which McKenney declares he has received instructions from the Great Father to appoint a penultimate chief with whom the United States could negotiate.\n\nOn occasions when territory would pass from one colonial power to another, the new power might refer to the former Great Father in past-tense, as when William Henry Harrison addressed the Shawnee, declaring that \"my children, let us look back to times that are past. It has been a long time since you called the King of Great Britain your father.\" In the United States, additional titles would sometimes be invoked to explain the political authority of the President to Native Americans, often as a \"chief\" of many \"fires\" (\"fire\" used as a metonym for \"state\"). In 1791, for instance, Henry Knox greeted the Miami on behalf of \"General Washington, the Great Chief of the Thirteen Fires,\" while John Adams would come to be known to the same tribe as the \"Great Chief of the Seventeen Fires.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "118697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=118697", "title": "Herostratus", "text": "Herostratus\n\nHerostratus () was a 4th-century BC Greek arsonist, who sought notoriety by destroying the Temple of Artemis, one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. His acts prompted the creation of a \"damnatio memoriae\" law, forbidding anyone to mention his name. The law was ultimately ineffective, as evidenced by mentions of his existence in contemporary literature. Thus, Herostratus has become a metonym for someone who commits a criminal act in order to become noted.\n\nArcheological evidence indicates the site of the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus had been of sacred use since the Bronze Age, and the original building was destroyed during a flood in the 7th century BC. A second temple was commissioned by King Croesus of Lydia around 560 BC and built by Cretan architects including Chersiphron, constructed largely of marble, and measuring 337 feet long and 180 feet wide with its pillars standing 40 feet tall. The sculpted bases of the pillars contained life-sized carvings and the roof opened to the sky around a statue of Artemis. The second temple was included on an early list of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World by Herodotus in the 5th century BC, and was well known in ancient times.\n\nLittle is known about the life of Herostratus, though it is thought he may have been someone of low social standing, a non-Ephesian or a slave. According to tradition, the fire that destroyed the second temple was set on the day Alexander the Great was born, 21 July 356 BC. Herostratus was then captured and tortured on the rack, where he confessed to having committed the arson in an attempt to immortalize his name. To dissuade those of similar intentions, the Ephesian authorities not only executed Herostratus, but attempted to condemn him to a legacy of obscurity by forbidding mention of his name under penalty of death. However, the ancient historian Theopompus mentions the name of Herostratus in his \"Philippica\", and it appears again later in the works of Strabo. It is said that in fact his name has outlived the names of his judges, and in his \"Hydriotaphia\" Sir Thomas Browne said: But the iniquity of oblivion blindly scattereth her poppy, and deals with the memory of men without distinction to merit of perpetuity... Herostratus lives that burnt the Temple of Diana, he is almost lost that built it... Who knows whether the best of men be known? or whether there be not more remarkable persons forgot, than any that stand remembred in the known account of time?\n\nWork on a third temple at the site began in 323 BC, resulting in a larger and more ornate temple that would be included by Antipater of Sidon as one of Seven Wonders of the Ancient World.\n\nHerostratus's name lived on in classical literature and has passed into modern languages as a term for someone who commits a criminal act in order to achieve notoriety, thus winning herostratic fame.\n\nThe term \"Herostratic fame\" refers to Herostratus and means \"fame [sought] at any cost\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55688429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55688429", "title": "Human rights in the Gambia", "text": "Human rights in the Gambia\n\nHuman rights in the Gambia have been considered poor under Yahya Jammeh. In December, 2016, he lost an election to Adama Barrow, who promised to improve human rights in his country. The \"Freedom in the World\" report for 2018 ranked the Gambia as \"partly free\". LGBT activity was illegal, and punishable with life imprisonment.\n\n"}
{"id": "16012854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16012854", "title": "Industrial development policy of Ethiopia", "text": "Industrial development policy of Ethiopia\n\nBetween 1950 and 1960, the imperial government of Ethiopia enacted legislation and implemented a new policy to encourage foreign investment in the Ethiopian economy. This new policy provided investor benefits in the form of tax exemptions, remittances of foreign exchange, import and export duty relief, tax exemptions on dividends, and the provision of financing through the Ethiopian Investment Corporation and the Development Bank of Ethiopia. In addition, the government guaranteed protection to industrial enterprises by instituting high tariffs and by banning the importation of commodities that might adversely affect production of domestic goods. Protected items included sugar, textiles, furniture, and metal. The government also participated through direct investment in enterprises that had high capital costs, such as oil refineries and the paper and pulp, glass and bottle, tire, and cement industries. In 1963, with the Second Five-Year Plan under way, the government enacted Proclamation No. 51. The proclamation's objective was to consolidate other investment policies enacted up to that period, to extend benefits to Ethiopian investors (previous legislation had limited the benefits to foreigners only), and to create an Investment Committee that would oversee investment programs. In 1966 the Ethiopian government enacted Proclamation No. 242, which elevated the Investment Committee's status as an advisory council to that of an authorized body empowered to make independent investment decisions. Thus, by the early 1970s, Ethiopia's industrialization policy included a range of fiscal incentives, direct government investment, and equity participation in private enterprises.\n\nThe government's policy attracted considerable foreign investment to the industrial sector. For instance, in 1971/72 the share of foreign capital in manufacturing industries amounted to 41 percent of the total paid-up capital. Many foreign enterprises operated as private limited companies, usually as a branch or subsidiary of multinational corporations. The Dutch had a major investment (close to 80 percent) in the sugar industry. Italian and Japanese investors participated in textiles; and Greeks maintained an interest in shoes and beverages. Italian investors also worked in building, construction, and agricultural industries.\n\nIn 1975 the Derg nationalized most industries and subsequently reorganized them into state-owned corporations. On February 7, 1975, the government released a document outlining Ethiopia's new economic policy, which was explicitly socialist in philosophy and intent. The policy identified three manufacturing areas slated for state involvement: basic industries that produced goods serving other industries and that had the capacity to create linkages in the economy; industries that produced essential goods for the general population; and industries that made drugs, medicine, tobacco, and beverages. The policy also grouped areas of the public and private sectors into activities reserved for the state, activities where state and private capital could operate jointly, and activities left to the private sector.\n\nThe 1975 nationalization of major industries scared off foreign private investment. Private direct investment, according to the National Bank of Ethiopia, declined from 65 million birr in 1974 to 12 million in 1977. As compensation negotiations between the Ethiopian government and foreign nationals dragged on, foreign investment virtually ceased. The United States Congress invoked the Hickenlooper Amendment, which had the effect of prohibiting the use of United States funds for development purposes until Ethiopia had settled compensation issues with United States nationals. During 1982 and 1983, the Ethiopian government settled claims made by Italian, Dutch, Japanese, and British nationals. Negotiation to settle compensation claims by United States nationals continued until 1985, when Ethiopia agreed to pay about US$ 7 million in installments to compensate United States companies.\n\nIssued in 1983, the Derg's Proclamation No. 235 (the Joint Venture Proclamation) signaled Ethiopia's renewed interest in attracting foreign capital. The proclamation offered incentives such as a five-year period of income tax relief for new projects, import and export duty relief, tariff protection, and repatriation of profits and capital. It limited foreign holdings to a maximum of 49 percent and the duration of any joint venture to twenty-five years. Although the proclamation protected investors' interests from expropriation, the government reserved the right to purchase all shares in a joint venture \"for reasons of national interest.\" The proclamation failed to attract foreign investment, largely because foreign businesses were hesitant to invest in a country whose government recently had nationalized foreign industries without a level of compensation these businesses considered satisfactory.\n\nIn 1989 the government issued Special Decree No. 11, a revision of the 1983 proclamation. The decree allowed majority foreign ownership in many sectors, except in those related to public utilities, banking and finance, trade, transportation, and communications, where joint ventures were not allowed. The decree also removed all restrictions on profit repatriation and attempted to provide more extensive legal protection of investors than had the 1983 proclamation.\n\nPresident Haile Mariam Mengistu's March 1990 speech to the Central Committee of the Worker's Party of Ethiopia was a turning point in Ethiopia's recent economic history. Acknowledging that socialism had failed, Mengistu proposed implementing a mixed economy. Under the new system, the private sector would be able to participate in all parts of the economy with no limit on capital investment (Ethiopia had a US$ 250,000 ceiling on private investment); developers would be allowed to build houses, apartments, and office buildings for rent or sale; and commercial enterprises would be permitted to develop industries, hotels, and a range of other enterprises on government-owned land to be leased on a concessionary basis. Additionally, state-owned industries and businesses would be required to operate on a profit basis, with those continuing to lose money to be sold or closed. Farmers would receive legal ownership of land they tilled and the right to sell their produce in a free market. Whereas there were many areas yet to be addressed, such as privatization of state enterprises and compensation for citizens whose land and property had been confiscated, these proposals generated optimism among some economists about Ethiopia's economic future. However, some observers pointed out that Mengistu's proposals only amounted to recognition of existing practices in the underground economy.\n\n"}
{"id": "19799680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19799680", "title": "Internationalization Index", "text": "Internationalization Index\n\nInternationalization Index is a criterion used by the United Nations to rank nations and companies in evaluating their degree of integration with the world economy.\n\nInternationalization Index is calculated as the number of foreign affiliates divided by the number of all affiliates.\n"}
{"id": "4198953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4198953", "title": "Iron(II) gluconate", "text": "Iron(II) gluconate\n\nIron(II) gluconate, or ferrous gluconate, is a black compound often used as an iron supplement. It is the iron(II) salt of gluconic acid. It is marketed under brand names such as \"Fergon\", \"Ferralet\" and \"Simron\".\n\nFerrous gluconate is effectively used in the treatment of hypochromic anemia. The use of this compound compared with other iron preparations results in satisfactory reticulocyte responses, a high percentage utilization of iron, and daily increase in hemoglobin that a normal level occurs in a reasonably short time.\n\nFerrous gluconate is also used as a food additive when processing black olives. It is represented by the food labeling E number E579 in Europe. It imparts a uniform jet black color to the olives. Therefore, regular consumption of blackened olives may help to keep a healthy ferritin level in the blood.\n\nFerrous gluconate may be toxic in case of overdose. Children may show signs of toxicity with ingestions of 10–20 mg/kg of elemental iron. Serious toxicity may result from ingestions of more than 60 mg/kg. Iron exerts both local and systemic effects: it is corrosive to the gastrointestinal mucosa, it can have a negative impact on the heart and blood (dehydration, low blood pressure, fast and weak pulse, shock), lungs, liver, gastrointestinal system (diarrhea, nausea, vomiting blood), nervous system (chills, dizziness, coma, convulsions, headache), and skin (flushing, loss of color, bluish-colored lips and fingernails). The symptoms may disappear in a few hours, but then emerge again after 1 or more days. \n\n"}
{"id": "19927394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19927394", "title": "Jaime Wheelock", "text": "Jaime Wheelock\n\nJaime Wheelock Román (born 1946) is a Nicaraguan politician. Member of The Sandinista Liberation Front from 1967, he was named as a member of the National Directorate in 1973. Wheelock graduated as lawyer and sociologist by University of Chile and FLACSO, Chile. He was the leader of the \"Proletarian Tendency\" in the 1970s, and one of the nine commanders of the Nicaraguan Sandinista Revolution that overthrew the Somoza regime. After 1979 he became minister for agriculture and agrarian reform in the Sandinista government of the 1980s. After 1990 he obtained a master's degree in public administration at Harvard University. Wheelock has written several books: \"Imperialismo y Dictadura\", \"Raíces Indígenas de la Lucha anticolonialista en Nicaragua\", \"Diciembre Victorioso\", \"El Desarrollo Economico de Nicaragua\", and \"La Reforma Agraria Sandinista\", amongst other publications. Since 1996 he has been the President of the \"NGO Instituto para el Desarrollo y la Democracia IPADE\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10140447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10140447", "title": "Kelvedon Hatch Secret Nuclear Bunker", "text": "Kelvedon Hatch Secret Nuclear Bunker\n\nThe Kelvedon Hatch Secret Nuclear Bunker at Kelvedon Hatch, in the Borough of Brentwood in the English county of Essex, is a large underground bunker maintained during the cold war as a potential regional government headquarters. Since being decommissioned in 1992, the bunker has been open to the public as a tourist attraction, with a museum focusing on its cold war history.\n\nThe bunker was first built as an air defence station (an 'R4' Sector Operations Control or SOC) as part of the RAF ROTOR air defence project. Upon the demise of the ROTOR SOC the remaining Nuclear Reporting Cell and UKWMO elements were incorporated into a Home Office 'Regional Seat of Government' or RSG. The bunker was able to hold various numbers (in the hundreds) of military and civilian personnel, the numbers changing over the years as the role of the building changed from SOC to RSG and in its later years; 'Regional Government Headquarters' or RGHQ. In the event of a nuclear strike the RSG / RGHQs etc. would be tasked to organise the survival of the population and continue government operations.\n\nThe Kelvedon Hatch bunker was built in 1952–53 as part of ROTOR. ROTOR was a programme to improve and harden Britain's air defence network. It was constructed by Peter Lind & Company of London who still trade today. The bunker was a hardened (three level 'R4') Sector Operations Centre (SOC) for RAF Fighter Command. It was to provide command and control of the London Sector of Fighter Command. \n\nDuring the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s and early into the 1990s, the UK government (Home Office) maintained the bunker as an emergency regional government defence site. Eventually in the early 1990s when nuclear threat was seen as diminished, the bunker was sold back to the farming family who had owned the land in the 1950s. It is now a Cold War museum and retains many of its original ROTOR and RSG/RGHQ features.\n\nThe bunker is built underground and the entrance is through an ordinary looking bungalow (a standard ROTOR 'Guard House') set amongst trees. The inside of the bungalow leads to a tunnel entering the R4 at its lowest floor (of three). Above are two more floors, the 'hill' which covers it, and a radio mast.\n\nThe bunker was able to accommodate some hundreds of personnel (the numbers changing as function and form varied over the years) and could sustain them for up to three months. The bunker has air conditioning and heating (using the original ROTOR AC-Plant but replacing the original coolant with a more 'modern' type [c.1980s]), its own water supply (mains water and its own deep bore hole) and generators, and was equipped with many types of radio equipment, protected (EMP) telecommunications, teleprinter (MSX) networks and various military systems: MOULD (system to provide communications between Regular Army, TA Battalions and the Army District and Regional Headquarters) and CONRAD (radio government communications systems post nuclear strike) etc.\n\nBy 1992 the bunker was no longer required, so was decommissioned and the land was sold back to the original owners. It has now been renovated and made into a museum and tourist attraction; many locals appreciate the irony of the many brown tourist road signs in the area, clearly directing people to the \"Secret Nuclear Bunker\". The BBC TV show \"Top Gear\" featured the signs.\n\nThe bunker was used as a \"Killer's Location\" for \"The Murder Game\". Both the living quarters and the operational zone were set up for the \"Killer's Game\" in the finale. It also played a significant role in an episode of \"New Tricks\" titled \"The Queen's Speech\", first broadcast on BBC1 on 20 October 2014.\n\nIn 2010 the independent British post-apocalyptic/horror film \"S.N.U.B!\" was filmed in the bunker.\n\nThe 2016 full-motion video game \"The Bunker\", which uses live-action footage, was fully filmed inside the bunker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28077144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28077144", "title": "Legal status of homosexuality in Brazil", "text": "Legal status of homosexuality in Brazil\n\nDuring the Portuguese colonization of Brazil, homosexuality was illegal in the country between 1533 and 1830, due to the imposition of the Portuguese Penal Code, which was influenced by the British Buggery Act 1533.\n\nIn 1830, eight years after the end of the Portuguese domain, sodomy laws were eliminated from the new Penal Code of Brazil.\n\nAfter the French overseas territories located in the Americas, Brazil was the first country in the New World and Southern Hemisphere to legalize homosexuality. Today in South America only Guyana, a former British colony, considers homosexuality illegal.\n\nSince 1985 the Federal Council of Medicine of Brazil does not consider homosexuality as deviant. In 1999, the Federal Council of Psychology published a resolution that has standardized the conduct of psychologists face the question: \"... psychologists did not collaborate with events or services proposing treatment and cure of homosexuality.\" In 1990, five years after Brazil removed homosexuality from its list of mental illnesses, the General Assembly of the World Health Organization (WHO), with headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, removed the homosexuality, in the International Classification of Diseases (ICD).\n\n"}
{"id": "2534225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2534225", "title": "List of fascist movements by country A–F", "text": "List of fascist movements by country A–F\n\nA list of political parties, organizations, and movements adhering to various forms of fascist ideology, part of the list of fascist movements by country.\n\nOverview A-F G-M N-T U-Z\n\nOverview A-F G-M N-T U-Z\n"}
{"id": "59146901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59146901", "title": "List of pamphlet wars", "text": "List of pamphlet wars\n\nThis is a list of pamphlet wars in history. For several centuries after the printing press became common, people would print their own ideas in small pamphlets somewhat akin to modern blogs: while these could not be widely available via the internet they could \"go viral\", because others were free to reprint pamphlets they liked, and therefore ideas were widely spread. Counter-arguments would then be printed in opposing pamphlets, which might become popular themselves. A prolonged debate carried out this way changed society many times, until copyright laws effectively banned the propagation of ideas in this way.\n"}
{"id": "14621424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14621424", "title": "Ministry of Defence (Brazil)", "text": "Ministry of Defence (Brazil)\n\nThe Ministry of Defense () of Brazil is the civilian cabinet organization responsible for managing the Military of Brazil. It is headed by the Minister of Defence.\n\nThe Ministry of Defense has three major components under its command structure - the Army Command, the Navy Command, and the Air Force Command. Among the many agencies operated by the Ministry of Defence are the National Civil Aviation Agency, the Infraero, and the Superior War School.\n\nBrazil's national defense policy is outlined in the National Defence Policy, the National Mobilization Policy and the National Defence Strategy.\n\n4. http://www.aereo.jor.br/2017/01/12/2017-orcamento-da-defesa-do-brasil/\n\n"}
{"id": "42416496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42416496", "title": "Ministry of Defence and Military Production", "text": "Ministry of Defence and Military Production\n\nThe Egyptian Ministry of Defense and Military Production is the ministry responsible for the Egyptian Armed Forces organization and manages its affairs and maintains its facilities. It also handles the affairs of colleges and military recruitment, mobilization and management of veterans and military factories in Egypt. The ministry is based in Cairo.\n\nThe following is a list of ministers of Defense and Military Production of Egypt since the Egyptian revolution of 1952. The position was known until 14 May 1971 as the \"Minister of War\". The Minister direct the Egyptian Armed Forces. Article 201 of the Constitution of Egypt states that the Minister is the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, and shall be appointed from among its officers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40069248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40069248", "title": "National Black Justice Coalition", "text": "National Black Justice Coalition\n\nThe National Black Justice Coalition (NBJC) is American civil rights organization serving primarily lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people. Since 2003, NBJC has collaborated with national civil rights groups and LGBT organizations, advocating for the unique challenges and needs of the African American LGBT community in the United States.\n\nIn 2011, the organization identified the issues it would focus its programming efforts on:\n\nOn the 50th anniversary of the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, the organization is honoring the courage and legacy of the march's chief organizer, openly gay civil rights leader Bayard Rustin. In addition to organizing the 1963 march, Rustin was also known for mentoring Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and helping to form the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC).\n\nLed by NBJC co-founder and political activist Mandy Carter, the initiative includes ongoing collaborations with Walter Naegle, Rustin's surviving partner as well as the executor and archivist of Bayard Rustin's estate. The organization is also working with Nancy Kates and Bennett Singer, co-producers and co-directors of Brother Outsider: The Life of Bayard Rustin, a biographical documentary about Rustin.\n\nIn 2006, the organization held its first Black Church Summit in Atlanta, Georgia. During the first summit, the Rev. Al Sharpton denounced homophobia and called for greater inclusion of LGBT people.\n\nBlack, Trans & Proud, a campaign promoting trans visibility and raising consciousness in the black community, was launched in honor of Transgender Awareness Week. The project called for community members to submit their photos and testimonials about their pride in the black trans community. As part of the campaign, NBJC featured ads with transgender leaders, including Kye Allums, Rev. Carmarion Anderson, Kylar Broadus, Laverne Cox, Janet Mock, Monica Roberts, and Valerie Spencer.\n\nThis program identifies young activists (ages 18–30) in the black LGBT movement, and provides opportunities for young leaders to build networks and take action in their communities. The organization hosted the 2013 Black LGBT Emerging Leaders Day in conjunction with the Human Rights Campaign and the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force on February 21, 2013 in Washington, D.C.\n\n\"Many Faces. One Dream.\" is a series of LGBT economic conferences for LGBT communities of color co-hosted by NBJC and the U.S. Small Business Administration. The events began in early 2013 and will eventually travel to 13 major cities throughout the country that have a significant LGBT presence in communities of color, including Atlanta, Chicago, Detroit, Ft. Lauderdale/Miami, Houston, Indianapolis, Los Angeles, New Orleans, New York City, Newark, New Jersey, Oakland/San Francisco, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C.\nParticipants are grouped into two tracks: \"Starting Your Business\" and \"Taking Your Business to the Next Level.\" In the first track, training is provided on business plans, loans, marketing, and SBA's program and services. The second track is designed for LGBT firms that are currently in business, with a desire to expand and grow.\n\nAttendees - black LGBT activists, allies, elected officials, faith leaders and youth - discuss and implement strategies to educate federal lawmakers about public policies impacting the black LGBT community.\n\nAfter the Lieutenant Governor of Florida, Jennifer Carroll, avoided answering questions about an alleged same-sex encounter with a female subordinate by telling a local news outlet that black lesbian and bisexual women ‘don’t look like her’ in the summer of 2012, NBJC launched a campaign with the Twitter hashtag #whatablacklesbianlookslike. After more than a week of pressure from groups like NBJC, Equality Florida and GLAAD, Carroll finally apologized, calling her comments \"wrong and inexcusable\" in a letter to Equality Florida's executive director Nadine Smith.\n\nNBJC was founded on December 8, 2003 by a group of eight black civil rights leaders - Keith Boykin, Mandy Carter, Jasmyne Cannick, Donna Payne, Frank Leon Roberts, Sonya Shields, Roddrick Colvin, and Maurice Franklin. The formation of the organization was announced during a press conference held at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. Initially the group came together to challenge support from African American religious and civil rights leaders for Republican-led efforts to amend the U.S. Constitution to prohibit same-sex marriage. Instead, the group began raising money to place advertisements promoting same-sex marriage in the African American media. Within three years, the group had created an organization and employed a staff led by founding executive director H. Alexander Robinson.\n\nIn July 2009. the organization became the first black LGBT group to address the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) board of governors when its deputy executive director, Jason W. Bartlett, urged the NAACP to pass resolutions issues pertaining to LGBT people of color.\n\nIn October 2009, it was announced that Sharon Lettman-Hicks would be joining the organization as executive director. She had previously worked at People for the American Way as executive vice president of leadership programs and external affairs.\n\n"}
{"id": "21927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21927", "title": "National Party of Australia", "text": "National Party of Australia\n\nThe National Party of Australia (also known as The Nationals or simply, The Nats) is an Australian political party. Traditionally representing graziers, farmers, and rural voters generally, it began as the Australian Country Party in 1920 at a federal level. It would later briefly adopt the name National Country Party in 1975, before adopting its current name in 1982.\n\nFederally, and in New South Wales, and to an extent in Victoria and historically in Western Australia, it has, in government, been the minor party in a centre-right Coalition with the Liberal Party of Australia, and its leader has usually served as Deputy Prime Minister. In Opposition the Coalition was usually maintained, but otherwise still generally continued to work in co-operation with the Liberal Party of Australia (and their predecessors the Nationalist Party of Australia and United Australia Party). In Queensland however, they were the senior coalition party between 1925 and 2008, after which they merged with the junior Liberal Party of Australia to form the Liberal National Party (LNP).\n\nThe current leader of the National Party is Michael McCormack, who won a leadership spill following Barnaby Joyce's resignation in February 2018. The deputy leader of the Nationals, since 7 December 2017, is Bridget McKenzie.\n\nThe Country Party was formally founded in 1913 in Western Australia, and nationally in 1920 from a number of state-based parties such as the Victorian Farmers' Union (VFU) and the Farmers and Settlers Party of New South Wales. Australia's first Country Party was founded in 1912 by Harry J. Stephens, editor of \"The Farmer & Settler\", but under fierce opposition from rival newspapers, failed to gain momentum.\n\nThe VFU won a seat in the House of Representatives at the Corangamite by-election held in December 1918, with the help of the newly introduced preferential voting system. At the 1919 federal election the state-based Country Parties won federal seats in New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia. They also began to win seats in state parliaments. In 1920 the Country Party was established as a national party led by William McWilliams from Tasmania. In his first speech as leader, McWilliams laid out the principles of the new party, stating \"we crave no alliance, we spurn no support but we intend drastic action to secure closer attention to the needs of primary producers\" McWilliams was deposed as party leader in favour of Dr Earle Page in April 1921 following instances where McWilliams voted against the party line. McWilliams would later leave the Country Party to sit as an Independent.\n\nAccording to historian B. D. Graham (1959), the graziers who operated the sheep stations were politically conservative. They disliked the Labor Party, which represented their workers, and feared that Labor governments would pass unfavorable legislation and listen to foreigners and communists. The graziers were satisfied with the marketing organisation of their industry, opposed any change in land tenure and labour relations, and advocated lower tariffs, low freight rates, and low taxes. On the other hand, Graham reports, the small farmers, not the graziers, founded the Country party. The farmers advocated government intervention in the market through price support schemes and marketing pools. The graziers often politically and financially supported the Country party, which in turn made the Country party more conservative.\n\nThe Country Party's first election as a united party, in 1922, saw it in an unexpected position of power. It won enough seats to deny the Nationalists an overall majority, and was the Nationalists' only realistic coalition partner. However, Page let it be known that his party would not serve under Hughes, and forced his resignation. Page then entered negotiations with the Nationalists' new leader, Stanley Bruce, for a coalition government. Page's terms were stiff—five seats in a Cabinet of 11, including the Treasurer portfolio and the second rank in the ministry for himself. Nonetheless, Bruce readily agreed, and the \"Bruce-Page Ministry\" was formed—thus beginning the tradition of the party's leader ranking second in Coalition cabinets.\n\nPage remained dominant in the party until 1939 and briefly served as an interim Prime Minister between the death of Joseph Lyons and the election of Robert Menzies as his successor, but Page's refusal to serve under Menzies led to his resignation as leader. The coalition was re-formed under Archie Cameron in 1940, and continued until October 1941 despite the election of Arthur Fadden as leader after the 1940 Election. Fadden was well regarded within conservative circles and proved to be a loyal deputy to Menzies in the difficult circumstances of 1941. When Menzies was forced to resign as Prime Minister, the UAP was so bereft of leadership that Fadden briefly succeeded him (despite the Country Party being the junior partner in the governing coalition). However, the two independents who had been propping up the government rejected Fadden's budget and brought the government down. Fadden stood down in favour of Labor leader John Curtin.\n\nThe Fadden-led Coalition made almost no headway against Curtin, and was severely defeated in the 1943 election. After that loss, Fadden became deputy Leader of the Opposition under Menzies, a role that continued after Menzies folded the UAP into the Liberal Party of Australia in 1944. Fadden remained a loyal partner of Menzies, though he was still keen to assert the independence of his party. Indeed, in the lead up to the 1949 federal election, Fadden played a key role in the defeat of the Chifley Labor government, frequently making inflammatory claims about the \"socialist\" nature of the Labor Party, which Menzies could then \"clarify\" or repudiate as he saw fit, thus appearing more \"moderate\". In 1949, Fadden became Treasurer in the second Menzies government and remained so until his retirement in 1958. His successful partnership with Menzies was one of the elements that sustained the coalition, which remained in office until 1972 (Menzies himself retired in 1966).\n\nFadden's successor, Trade Minister John McEwen, took the then unusual step of declining to serve as Treasurer, believing he could better ensure that the interests of Australian primary producers were safeguarded. Accordingly, McEwen personally supervised the signing of the first post-war trade treaty with Japan, new trade agreements with New Zealand and Britain, and Australia's first trade agreement with the USSR (1965). In addition to this he insisted on developing an all encompassing system of tariff protection that would encourage the development of those secondary industries that would \"value add\" Australia's primary produce. His success in this endeavour is sometimes dubbed \"McEwenism\". This was the period of the Country Party's greatest power, as was demonstrated in 1962 when McEwen was able to insist that Menzies sack a Liberal Minister who claimed that Britain's entry into the European Economic Community was unlikely to severely impact on the Australian economy as a whole.\n\nMenzies retired in 1966 and was succeeded by Harold Holt. McEwen thus became the longest-tenured member of the government, with the informal right to veto government policy. The most significant instance that McEwen exercised this came when Holt disappeared in December 1967. John Gorton became the new Liberal Prime Minister in January 1968. McEwen was sworn in as an interim Prime Minister pending the election of the new Liberal leader. Logically, the Liberals' deputy leader, William McMahon, should have succeeded Holt. However, McMahon was a staunch free-trader, and there were also rumors that he was homosexual. As a result, McEwen told the Liberals that he and his party would not serve under McMahon. McMahon stood down in favour of John Gorton. It would be only after McEwen announced his retirement that MacMahon would be able to successfully challenge Gorton for the Liberal leadership. McEwen's reputation for political toughness led to him being nicknamed \"Black Jack\" by his allies and enemies alike.\n\nAt the state level, from 1957 to 1989, the Country Party under Frank Nicklin and Joh Bjelke-Petersen dominated governments in Queensland—the last six of those years ruling in its own right, without the Liberals. It also took part in governments in New South Wales, Victoria, and Western Australia.\n\nHowever, successive electoral redistributions after 1964 indicated that the Country Party was losing ground electorally to the Liberals as the rural population declined, and the nature of some parliamentary seats on the urban/rural fringe changed. A proposed merger with the Democratic Labor Party (DLP) under the banner of \"National Alliance\" was rejected when it failed to find favour with voters at the 1974 state election.\n\nAlso in 1974, the Northern Territory members of the party joined with its Liberal party members to form the independent Country Liberal Party. This party continues to represent both parent parties in that territory. A separate party, the Joh-inspired NT Nationals, competed in the 1987 election with former Chief Minister Ian Tuxworth winning his seat of Barkly by a small margin. However, this splinter group were not endorsed by the national executive and soon disappeared from the political scene.\n\n\"Countrymindedness\" was a slogan that summed up the ideology of the Country Party from 1920 through the early 1970s. It was an ideology that was physiocratic, populist, and decentralist; it fostered rural solidarity and justified demands for government subsidies. \"Countrymindedness\" grew out of the failure of the country areas to participate in the rapid economic and population expansions that occurred after 1890. The growth of the ideology into urban areas came as most country people migrated to jobs in the cities. Its decline was due mainly to the reduction of real and psychological differences between country and city brought about by the postwar expansion of the Australian urban population and to the increased affluence and technological changes that accompanied it.\n\nIn 1975 the Country Party changed its name to the National Country Party as part of a strategy to expand into urban areas. This had some success in Queensland under Joh Bjelke-Petersen, but nowhere else. In Western Australia, the party briefly walked out of the coalition agreement in Western Australia in May 1975, returning within the month. However, the party split in two over the decision and other factors in late 1978, with a new National Party forming and becoming independent, holding three seats in the Western Australian lower house, while the National Country Party remained in coalition and also held three seats. They reconciled after the Burke Labor government came to power in 1983.\n\nThe 1980s were dominated by the feud between Bjelke-Petersen and the federal party leadership. Bjelke-Petersen briefly triumphed in 1987, forcing the Nationals to tear up the Coalition agreement and support his bid to become Prime Minister. The \"Joh for Canberra\" campaign backfired spectacularly when a large number of three-cornered contests allowed Labor to win a third term under Bob Hawke. It also proved to be the Queensland Nationals' last hurrah; Bjelke-Petersen was forced into retirement a few months after the federal election, and his party was heavily defeated in 1989. The Nationals experienced difficulties in the late 1990s from two fronts – firstly from the Liberal Party, who were winning seats on the basis that the Nationals were not seen to be a sufficiently separate party, and from the One Nation Party riding a swell of rural discontent with many of the policies such as multiculturalism and gun control embraced by all of the major parties. The rise of Labor in formerly safe National-held areas in rural Queensland, particularly on the coast, has been the biggest threat to the Queensland Nationals.\n\nIn 2018, it was revealed that the NSW National party and its youth wing, the Young Nationals had been infiltrated by neo-Nazis with more than 30 members being investigated for alleged links to neo-Nazism. Several suspected neo-Nazis were expelled from the party and its youth wing. \n\nParty leader Michael McCormack denounced these attempts stating that \"The Nationals will not tolerate extremism or the politics of hate. People found to engage with such radicalism are not welcome in our party. We are a grassroots party proudly championing what matters most to our regional and rural communities – always has been, always will be.\" However former leader Barnaby Joyce initially called the reports \"McCarthyist witch-hunts for the reds under the bed\" and questioning the evidence behind the claims. He later went back on these claims and called for the group to be dismissed from the party.\n\nQueensland is the only state in which the Nationals have consistently been the stronger coalition partner. The Nationals were the senior partner in the non-Labor Coalition from the 1950s until the Coalition was broken up in 1983 and at the following state election the Nationals (under Joh Bjelke-Petersen) came up one seat short of a majority at the election, but gained one a few weeks later after Don Lane and Brian Austin crossed the floor to join the Nationals. The Nationals subsequently governed in their own right until 1989.\n\nThe Queensland branch of the Country Party was the first to change its name to the National Party in April 1974.\n\nThe continued success of the Australian Labor Party at a state level has put pressure on the Nationals' links with the Liberal Party, their traditional coalition partner. In most states, the Coalition agreement is not in force when the parties are in opposition, allowing the two parties greater freedom of action.\n\nIn Queensland the National Party merged with the Liberal Party to form the Liberal National Party (LNP) in 2008. The LNP led by Lawrence Springborg went on to lose the March 2009 election to Anna Bligh's Australian Labor Party. However, in the 2012 state election, the LNP defeated the Labor Party in a landslide, but lost government in the 2015 landslide to Labor, also losing in 2018.\n\nIn South Australia, for the first time in the Nationals' history, in 2002 the single Nationals member in the House of Assembly entered the Rann Labor Government as a Minister forming an informal coalition between the two parties. Since the 2010 South Australian State election, the Nationals in South Australia have no representative in either the House of Assembly or the Upper House or at a Federal level. There existed a distinctly different Country Party in South Australia which merged with the Liberal Federation to become the Liberal and Country League in 1932.\n\nThe Nationals have had a very intermittent history of organising in Tasmania compared to the main states with limited electoral success. The most recent attempt began in 2013 but disagreements between the state and federal parties led to the latter cutting ties and the state party renamed itself the Tasmania Party before disappearing off the scene. In May 2018 federal senator Steve Martin joined the party and declared he would seek to relaunch it in the state.\n\nThe Nationals were stung in early 2006, when their only Victorian senator, Julian McGauran, defected to the Liberals and created a serious rift between the Nationals and the Liberals. Several commentators believed that changing demographics and unfavourable preference deals would demolish the Nationals at the state election that year, but they went on to enjoy considerable success by winning two extra lower house seats. The Nationals were in a coalition government with the Liberals at a State level in Victoria until their defeat at the 2014 election. Following the election, the ABC reported that the coalition parties would \"review\" whether to continue their joint working arrangement into opposition. However, both outgoing Nationals leader Peter Ryan and incoming Liberal leader Matthew Guy indicated they felt the coalition should continue.\n\nWestern Australia's National Party chose to assert its independence after an acrimonious co-habitation with the Liberals on the 2005 campaign trail. Unlike its New South Wales and Queensland counterparts, the WA party had decided to oppose Liberal candidates in the 2008 election. The party aimed to hold the balance of power in the state \"as an independent conservative party\" ready to negotiate with the Liberals or Labor to form a minority government. After the election, the Nationals negotiated an agreement to form a government with the Liberals and an independent MP, though not described as a \"traditional coalition\" due to the reduced cabinet collective responsibility of National cabinet members.\n\nWestern Australia's one-vote-one-value reforms will cut the number of rural seats in the state assembly to reflect the rural population level: this, coupled with the Liberals' strength in country areas has put the Nationals under significant pressure.\n\nThe Nationals have rarely organised or stood in the Australian Capital Territory. Federally their only candidatures were in the 1974 election when they contested both constituencies and secured 3.5% of the territory vote. In the first election to the Legislative Assembly in 1989 David Adams, a former Liberal member of the old House of Assembly, headed a list of three candidates for the Nationals. They received 1947 votes (1.37%) and did not get any members elected. The party has not stood in the territory since.\n\nThe Nationals see their main role as giving a voice to Australians who live outside the country's metropolitan areas.\n\nTraditionally, the leader of the National Party serves as Deputy Prime Minister when the Coalition is in government. This tradition dates back to the creation of the office in 1968.\n\nThe National Party's support base and membership are closely associated with the agricultural community. Historically anti-union, the party has vacillated between state support for primary industries (\"agrarian socialism\") and free agricultural trade and has opposed tariff protection for Australia's manufacturing and service industries. This vacillation prompted those opposed to the policies of the Nationals to joke that its real aim was to \"capitalise its gains and socialise its losses!\". It is usually pro-mining, pro-development, and anti-environmentalist.\n\nThe Nationals vote is in decline and its traditional supporters are turning instead to prominent independents such as Bob Katter, Tony Windsor and Peter Andren in Federal Parliament and similar independents in the Parliaments of New South Wales, Queensland and Victoria, many of whom are former members of the National Party. In fact since the 2004 Federal election, National Party candidates received fewer first preference votes than the Australian Greens.\n\nDemographic changes are not helping, with fewer people living and employed on the land or in small towns, the continued growth of the larger provincial centres, and, in some cases, the arrival of left-leaning \"city refugees\" in rural areas. The Liberals have also gained support as the differences between the coalition partners on a federal level have become invisible. This was highlighted in January 2006, when Nationals Senator Julian McGauran defected to the Liberals, saying that there was \"no longer any real distinguishing policy or philosophical difference\".\nIn Queensland, Nationals leader Lawrence Springborg advocated merger of the National and Liberal parties at a state level in order to present a more effective opposition to the Labor Party. Previously this plan had been dismissed by the Queensland branch of the Liberal party, but the idea received in-principle support from the Liberals. Federal leader Mark Vaile stated the Nationals will not merge with the Liberal Party at a federal level. The plan was opposed by key Queensland Senators Ron Boswell and Barnaby Joyce, and was scuttled in 2006. After suffering defeat in the 2006 Queensland poll, Lawrence Springborg was replaced by Jeff Seeney, who indicated he was not interested in merging with the Liberal Party until the issue is seriously raised at a Federal level.\n\nIn September 2008, Joyce replaced CLP Senator and Nationals deputy leader Nigel Scullion as leader of the Nationals in the Senate, and stated that his party in the upper house would no longer necessarily vote with their Liberal counterparts in the upper house, which opened up another possible avenue for the Rudd Labor Government to get legislation through. Joyce was elected leader in a party-room ballot on 11 February 2016, following the retirement of former leader and Deputy Prime Minister Warren Truss. Joyce was one of five politicians disqualified from parliament in October 2017 for holding dual citizenship, along with former deputy leader, Fiona Nash.\n\nMerger plans came to a head in May 2008, when the Queensland state Liberal Party gave an announcement not to wait for a federal blueprint but instead to merge immediately. The new party, the Liberal National Party, was founded in July 2008.\n\nThe Country Party's first senators began their terms in 1926, but the party had no official leader in the upper chamber until 1935. Instead, the party nominated a \"representative\" or \"liaison officer\" where necessary – usually William Carroll. This was so that its members \"were first and foremost representatives of their states, able to enjoy complete freedom of action and speech in the Senate and not beholden to the dictates of [...] a party Senate leader\". On 3 October 1935, Charles Hardy was elected as Carroll's replacement and began using the title \"Leader of the Country Party in the Senate\". This usage was disputed by Carroll and Bertie Johnston, but a subsequent party meeting on 10 October confirmed Hardy's position. However, after Hardy's term ended in 1938 (due to his defeat at the 1937 election), the party did not elect another Senate leader until 1949 – apparently due to its small number of senators.\n\n Queensland is represented by the Liberal National Party of Queensland. This party is the result of a merger of the Queensland Division of the Liberal Party and the Queensland National Party to contest elections as a single party.\n\nThe National Party does not stand candidates in Tasmania or the Australian Capital Territory.\n\nFor the 2015-2016 financial year, the top ten disclosed donors to the National Party were: Manildra Group ($182,000), Ognis Pty Ltd ($100,000), Trepang Services ($70,000), Northwake Pty Ltd ($65,000), Hancock Prospecting ($58,000), Bindaree Beef ($50,000), Mowburn Nominees ($50,000), Retail Guild of Australia ($48,000), CropLife International ($43,000) and Macquarie Group ($38,000).\n\nThe National Party also receives undisclosed funding through several methods, such as \"associated entities\". John McEwen House, Pilliwinks and Doogary are entities which have been used to funnel donations to the National Party without disclosing the source.\n\n"}
{"id": "54254326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54254326", "title": "New Mexico Wilderness Act of 1980", "text": "New Mexico Wilderness Act of 1980\n\nNew Mexico Wilderness Act of 1980, Public Law 96-550, is a U.S. federal law that authorized the establishment of a number of designated Wilderness Areas on National Forest land in New Mexico. The law also added additional lands to four existing Wilderness Areas in New Mexico, and named several Forest areas for study as potential Wilderness Areas. The law also created two new National Park Service units, Chaco Culture National Historical Park and Salinas National Monument, from existing NPS lands. By means of this law approximately 400,000 acres of forest land were designated as Wilderness Areas, as described by the Wilderness Act of 1964, and approximately 75,000 additional acres were designated as Wilderness Study Areas for possible future inclusion in the Wilderness program.\n\nResponding to a heightened public interest in conservation and an increased threat to public lands by development, and other intrusive or consumptive activities, such as logging, Congress passed the Wilderness Act of 1964, Public Law 88-577 (16 U.S.C. 1131-1136) on September 3, 1964. \n\nUnder this new law, proposed areas on U.S. Forest Service, National Park Service, and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service could be designated as Wilderness Areas, special reserves protected from human encroachment and development. Within these areas, unless specially exempted, Congress mandated that there \"shall be no commercial enterprise and no permanent road within any wilderness area designated by this Act and, except as necessary to meet minimum requirements for the administration of the area...there shall be no temporary road, no use of motor vehicles, motorized equipment or motorboats, no landing of aircraft, no other form of mechanical transport, and no structure or installation within any such area.\" To be kept in as close to a pristine natural state as possible, these areas would only be open to hikers and backpackers, who would be expected to follow low-impact, \"pack-in/pack out\" camping practices.\n\nWhat would eventually become Public Law 96-550 was first proposed to the House of Representatives by Manuel Lujan Jr., the representative of New Mexico's 1st Congressional District on October 2, 1980. Designated House Resolution 8298 (96th) the bill was discussed in both the House Agriculture and Natural Resources Committees before being approved on November 21, 1980, six weeks after its introduction. After passing through the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, the bill was passed in identical form to the House version on December 1, 1980. Eighteen days later, on December 19, 1980, the bill, now known as the New Mexico Wilderness Act of 1980, was signed by the President.\n\nTitle 1, Section 102 of the new law authorized the establishment of nine new Wilderness Areas and the addition of lands to three existing Wilderness Areas on National Forest land in New Mexico.\n\nThe Wilderness Areas established included:\n\n\nAdditional lands were added to the following existing Wilderness Areas, including:\n\n\nTitle I, Section 103 of the law instructed the Secretary of Agriculture, as the official responsible for the Forest Service and the implementation of the Wilderness Act of 1964 to examine five proposed Wilderness Study Areas to determine their suitability for inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation system. The law further stated that the Secretary's findings should be presented to the Senate and the President no later than January 1, 1986.\n\nThe areas proposed for study included:\n\nTitle II of the law authorized the Secretary of Agriculture to create, in conjunction with the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology, the Langmuir Research Site in the Cibola National Forest. Noting that the \"high altitude and freedom from air pollution and night luminosity caused by human activity\" made the Forest \"uniquely suited to the conduct of research probes into thunder clouds and for other atmospheric and astronomical research purposes,\" the law authorized the use of 31,000 acres of the Cibola National Forest for research use.\n\nThese two short sections of the law authorized the payment of not more than $20,000 to reimburse Albert and Eulalaia Rodriquez for improvements on land within the Taos Pueblo Grant, and gave the Secretary of the Interior the authority to amend the contract between the Vermejo Conservancy District, a Bureau of Reclamation irrigation project near Maxwell, New Mexico and the federal government.\n\nTitle V of the law authorized the re-designation of the Chaco Canyon National Monument to Chaco Culture National Historical Park. Established in 1933, Chaco Canyon National Monument was created to preserve the very large collection of Ancestral Puebloan dwellings, kivas, and primitive roads located in and around Chaco Canyon in northwestern New Mexico. In 1980, recognizing the importance of the archaeological research being done in and around Chaco Canyon and the increased public interest in the Ancient Puebloan people Congress authorized the Secretary of Agriculture to designate 31 outlying areas Chaco Culture Archaeological Protection Sites. Meant to protect these potentially valuable sites from encroachment from energy-related exploration and development, the law authorized the Secretary of Interior, as the official responsible for the National Park Service, to enter into co-operative agreements with land holders to protect, preserve, maintain, and administer these sites, or if under imminent threat of damage or destruction, to seek title to these lands by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.\n\nThe last section of the law authorized the establishment of Salinas Pueblo Missions National Monument near Mountainair, New Mexico. To create this new unit, the law abolished the nearby Gran Quivira National Monument, assigned its 611 acres to the new park, authorized the Secretary of the Interior to acquire an additional 466 acres near Mountainair, and gave permission for the Secretary to acquire other lands as might be need to complete the unit. Protecting both the ancient Native American ruins and the Missions built in the area by the Spanish, the new park combined the ruins at Gran Quivira, Abo, and Quaraiin into a single administrative unit, with its headquarters in Mountainair.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "340606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340606", "title": "Nilometer", "text": "Nilometer\n\nA nilometer was a structure for measuring the Nile River's clarity and water level during the annual flood season. There were three main types of nilometers, calibrated in Egyptian cubits: (1) a vertical column, (2) a corridor stairway of steps leading down to the Nile, or (3) a deep well with culvert. If the water level was low, there would be famine. If it was too high, it would be destructive. There was a specific mark that indicated how high the flood should be if the fields were to get good soil.\nBetween July and November, the reaches of the Nile running through Egypt would burst their banks and cover the adjacent flood plain.\nWhen the waters receded, around September or October, they left behind a rich alluvial deposit of exceptionally fertile black silt over the croplands. The \"akhet\", or Season of the Inundation, was one of the three seasons into which the Ancient Egyptians divided their years.\n\nIt would be difficult to overstate the importance of the annual flood to Egyptian civilization. A moderate inundation was a vital part of the agricultural cycle; however, a lighter inundation than normal would cause famine, and too much flood water would be equally disastrous, washing away much of the infrastructure built on the flood plain. Records from AD 622–999 indicate that on average, one year out of every four (28%) saw an inundation that fell short of expectations.\n\nThe ability to predict the volume of the coming inundation was part of the mystique of the Ancient Egyptian priesthood. The same skill also played a political and administrative role, since the quality of the year's flood was used to determine the levels of tax to be paid. This is where the nilometer came into play, with priests monitoring the day-to-day level of the river and announcing the awaited arrival of the summer flood.\n\nThe simplest nilometer design is a vertical column submerged in the waters of the river, with marked intervals indicating the depth of the water.\nOne that follows this simple design, albeit housed in an elaborate and ornate stone structure, can still be seen on the island of Rhoda in central Cairo This nilometer dates only as far back as AD 861, when the Abbasid caliph al-Mutawakkil ordered its construction, overseen by the astronomer Afraganus. It was built on a site occupied by an earlier specimen which was seen by the Syrian Orthodox patriarch Dionysius of Tel Mahre in 830. This prior nilometer had been ordered in AD 715 by Usāma b. Zayd b. ʿAdī, who was in charge of collecting the land tax (\"kharaj\") in Egypt for the Umayyad caliph Sulaymān ibn ʿAbd al-Malik.\n\nThe best known example of this kind can be seen on the island of Elephantine in Aswan, where a stairway of 52 steps leads down to a doorway at the Nile. This location was also particularly important, since for much of Egyptian history, Elephantine marked Egypt's southern border and was therefore the first place where the onset of the annual flood was detected.\n\nThe most elaborate design involved a channel or culvert that led from the riverbank – often running for a considerable distance – and then fed a well, tank, or cistern. These nilometer wells were most frequently located within the confines of temples, where only the priests and rulers were allowed access.\nA particularly fine example, with a deep, cylindrical well and a culvert opening in the surrounding wall, can be seen at the Temple of Kom Ombo, to the north of Aswan.\n\nWhile nilometers originated in Pharaonic times, they continued to be used by the later civilizations that held sway in Egypt. Some were constructed in Roman times.\n\nIn the 20th century, the Nile's annual inundation was first greatly reduced, and then eliminated entirely, with the construction of the Aswan dams.\n\nWhile the Aswan High Dam's impact on Egypt and its agriculture has been controversial for other, more complex reasons, it has also had the additional effect of rendering the nilometer obsolete.\n"}
{"id": "1244718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1244718", "title": "Parachute candidate", "text": "Parachute candidate\n\nA parachute candidate, also known as a “carpetbagger” in the United States, is a pejorative term for an election candidate who does not live in and has little connection to the area he or she is running to represent. The allegation is thus that the candidate is being “parachuted in” for the job by a desperate political party that has no reliable talent indigenous to the district or state or that the party (or the candidate himself/herself) wishes to give a candidate an easier election than would happen in one's own home area.\n\n\n\nFormer DNC chairman Terry McAuliffe, despite having not held any political office or position in Virginia won election in 2013 to become Virginia's 72nd Governor.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4716613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4716613", "title": "Parisine", "text": "Parisine\n\nParisine is a typeface created by Jean-François Porchez. Distributed by Typofonderie.\n\nIt is used in Paris Métro, tramways, buses and RER parts operated by the RATP Group in Île-de-France. Starting in 2015, the Osaka City Subway in Japan adopted Parisine as the Latin-character component of its new signage system, which is gradually being introduced throughout its network.\n\nIt was originally developed in 1996 as a custom typeface in Bold and Bold Italic developed for the RATP to improve signage legibility and space economy. The design was based on the proportions of Helvetica Bold, condensed at 90%.\n\nIn 1999, the font was extended to a font family for multiple uses like communication material, maps, etc. In 2000, hinted TrueType versions were added for internal corporate use. The name Parisine is a trademark of the RATP.\n\nIt is an OpenType variant of Parisine. A small caps version was produced called Parisine SC, see Parisine PRO for Small Caps.\n\nOpenType features include ligatures, fractions, ordinals/superior letters and figures, caps figures, oldstyle figures (SC versions only), a tabular figures.\n\nIt is an OpenType variant of Parisine, which further expanded upon Parisine Std. Previous version of Parisine PRO was called Parisine PTF.\n\nEach member of the family is composed of more than 720 glyphs and feature around 26700 kerning pairs.\n\nOpenType features include small caps, case forms, ligatures, special ligatures, alternates, stylistic sets, caps figures, oldstyle figures, tabular figures, fractions, superscript/subscript, superior/inferior figures, ordinals/superior letters and figures, and ornaments.\n\nIt is a variant with alternate designs. It includes extra ligatures over the respective classic designs.\n\nSome additional alternates glyphs are included in PostScript Type 1 format.\n\nOpenType features include ligatures, fractions, ordinals/superior letters and figures, caps figures, oldstyle figures (SC versions only), and tabular figures.\n\nIt is an expanded OpenType variant of Parisine Plus Std. It was released at the same time as Parisine. Previous version of Parisine Plus PRO was called Parisine Plus PTF.\n\nEach member of the family is composed of more than 900 glyphs and feature around 40000 kerning pairs.\n\nOpenType features include small caps, case forms, ligatures, special ligatures, alternates, stylistic sets, swashes, caps figures, oldstyle figures, tabular figures, fractions, superscript/subscript, superior/inferior figures, ordinals/superior letters and figures, and ornaments.\n\n\"Parisine Office\" was a version created for RATP in 2005, as replacement of Gill Sans. It became the first variant designed in OpenType. The font was commercially available in June 2008.\n\nIt consists of over 600 characters, and is metric-compatible with Gill Sans. The family has been includes font weights with complementary italics.\n\nOpenType features include case forms, ligatures, special ligatures, alternates, swashes, caps figures, oldstyle figures, semi oldstyle figures, tabular figures, fractions, superscript/subscript, superior/inferior figures, ordinals/superior letters and figures, and ornaments.\n\nIt is an extension of the original Parisine Office font, featuring smaller x-height, more cursive italic lowercase glyphs than in Parisine, a bit like Parisine Plus, extended character sets. Previous version of Parisine Office PRO was called Parisine Office PTF.\n\nOpenType features include small caps, case forms, ligatures, special ligatures, alternates, stylistic sets, caps figures, oldstyle figures, tabular figures, fractions, superscript/subscript, superior/inferior figures, ordinals/superior letters and figures, and ornaments.\n\nIt is a custom version of Parisine designed by Jean-François Porchez under the ZeCraft foundry, for use with LED displays on RATP buses.\n\nParisine Girouette Frontale is used for the main direction on the front of bus and was designed quite narrow to display a maximum of content.\n\nParisine Girouette Latérale is also designed at 50% of the size of the main typeface, to set information on the side of the bus. The Bold font is used for the final direction, while the Regular/Light is used for intermediate stops.\n\nWith exception of Parisine SC, Parisine Office, Parisine Girouette, each family contains 6 weights with complementary italics, but it is further divided into 3 subfamily, where the subfamily with Clair suffix includes 2 lightest weights, Sombre suffix includes 2 heaviest weights, subfamily without suffix includes 2 middle weights. Fonts in each subfamily are always named Regular, Italic, Bold, Bold Italic, regardless of actual font weights across the family.\n\nIn 2010, The Gris subfamily was added to Parisine PRO family, which includes 2 intermediate font weights between Parisine PRO Clair and Parisine PRO.\n\nIn 2013, The Gris subfamily was added to Parisine Plus families, which includes 2 intermediate font weights between Parisine Plus Clair and Parisine Plus. However, Parisine Plus Gris Regular is weighted between Parisine Plus Clair Bold and Parisine Plus Regular, while Parisine Plus Gris Bold is weighted between Parisine Plus Regular and Parisine Plus Bold.\n\nParisine Office won a Star of the Observeur 07 at the Design Observeur 07 (Observeur du design 07).\n\nParisine Girouette won a star at Observeur du design 13 under the graphic design, visual identity category.\n\nParisine Girouette won a prize in 44e Palmarès Prix 2012 under the Typography category, typeface design category.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1158649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1158649", "title": "Patient transport", "text": "Patient transport\n\nPatient transport is a service that transfers patients to and from medical facilities in non-emergency situations.\n\nIn emergency situations, patients are transported by the emergency medical services. Non-emergency patient transport is sometimes run by the same agency. It is typically provided to a patient who needs to be transferred to a facility that can provide a higher or more specialized level of care (though the EMS may be summoned if this is urgent). It may also be used to transfer patients from a specialized facility to a local hospital or nursing home when they no longer require this specialized care, such as following successful cardiac catheterization due to a heart attack. Some countries also offer the service to patients who cannot make their own way to or from the hospital.\n\nPatient transport services are provided in the United Kingdom to convey patients to hospitals. The vehicles used are not usually (although there are exceptions) equipped with life-support equipment, and are usually crewed by staff with fewer qualifications than the crew of emergency ambulances. Their purpose is simply to transport patients to, from or between places of treatment. This is a separate provision from the Hospital Travel Costs scheme, which is means tested. These services are often provided by ambulance services using non-emergency vehicles, but may be subject to tendering processes.\n\nCornwall Clinical Commissioning Group proposed to restrict this provision for dialysis patients for those who did not have specific medical or financial reasons in 2018 but changed their minds after a campaign led by Kidney Care UK and decided to fund transport for patients requiring dialysis three times a week for a minimum of six weeks, or six times a month for a minimum of three months.\nSee also \n"}
{"id": "81260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81260", "title": "Political compass", "text": "Political compass\n\nThe political compass is a multi-axis political model used by the website of the same name to label or organise political thought on two dimensions. In its selection and representation of these two dimensions, it is similar to the Nolan Chart and Pournelle chart. The term \"political compass\" is claimed as a trademark by the British website Pace News Limited, which uses responses to a set of 61 propositions to rate political ideology on two axes: economic (left–right) and social (authoritarian–libertarian). The site also includes an explanation of the two-axis system they use, a few charts which place various past and present political figures according to their estimation and reading lists for each of the main political orientations.\n\nThe underlying theory of the political compass is that political ideology may be better measured along two separate and independent axes. The economic (left–right) axis measures one's opinion of how the economy should be run: \"left\" is defined as the desire for the economy to be run by a cooperative collective agency (which can mean the state, but can also mean a network of communes) while \"right\" is defined as the desire for the economy to be left to the devices of competing individuals and organizations. The other axis (authoritarian–libertarian) measures one's political opinions in a social sense, regarding the amount of personal freedom that one would allow: \"libertarianism\" is defined as the belief that personal freedom should be maximised while \"authoritarianism\" is defined as the belief that authority should be obeyed.\n\nA number of other multi-axis models of political thought exist and some are based on similar axes to the political compass. A similar chart appeared in 1970 in \"The Floodgates of Anarchy\" by Albert Meltzer and Stuart Christie and in 1968 in the \"Rampart Journal of Individualist Thought\" by Maurice C. Bryson and William R. McDill. Meltzer and Christie's and Bryson and McDill are pretty much the same as Nolan's, but for a change of nomenclature and the political compass is also the same, but flipped and rotated 45° anti-clockwise.\n\nThe website does not explain its scoring system. A number of writers, including Tom Utley and Brian Patrick Mitchell, have criticised its validity.\n\nThe political compass website does not reveal the people behind it, beyond the fact that it seems to be based in the United Kingdom. At the bottom of any page on the website, it is stated that the political compass's copyright belongs to an organisation named Pace News Limited. Pace News Limited is a company registered in New Zealand whose director is political journalist Wayne Brittenden. According to \"The New York Times\", the site is the work of Brittenden. According to Tom Utley, writing in \"The Daily Telegraph\", the site is connected to One World Action, a charity founded by Glenys Kinnock. An early version of the site was published on One World Action's web server.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21370859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21370859", "title": "Prisons of the Reign of Terror", "text": "Prisons of the Reign of Terror\n\nPrisons of the Reign of Terror indicates a process set up under the Reign of Terror, inaugurated after the lawsuit of the dantonists, then set up in a systematic manner, after the vote of the Law of 22 Prairial (). There were several \"crimes against humanity,\" given that the expression indicates neither rebellion nor mutiny, but a concerted plan of physical elimination of innocent prisoners without due process of the law. \n\nSome of these manufactured \"conspiracies\" considered to be criminal, in year III (1795) failed (), others envisaged were prempted because of the events of Thermidor 9, and others still, found their completion 19, 21–22, and 25 messidor, 5–6, and 8 Thermidor year II (7, 9–10, 13, 23–24, and 26 July 1794). Maximilien Robespierre, Saint-Just and Couthon, contrary to one \"Convention thermidorienne\", did share this: they are entirely the work of the Committee of General Security, in connection with some members of the Committee of Public Safety, and particularly Bertrand Barère who said to the Convention: \"the committee took its measurements and in two months the prisons will be evacuated\".\n\nSome members of Committee of Public Safety and of Committee of General Security had decided by political calculation, with various ulterior motives, to accentuate Terror by \"purging\" (it is their word) the prisons of Paris. Those were overflowing since the removal of the provincial revolutionary tribunals, in March 1794—the defendants stopped in the provinces were submitted in Paris, the recrudescence of the orders of arrest launched in Ile-de-France, by the Committee of general security and the \"administrative slownesses\" of the revolutionary Tribunal of Paris, backed-up by the paperwork, and the need for arguing the charges. \n\nUnder the law of the 22 Prairal, the alleged conspiracies of prisoners made it possible to go more quickly, and to comb out the prisons. All the prisoners of one or the other of the many Parisian prisons, whatever the reason for their imprisonment - suspects, prevented or already judged, were concerned overall. The alleged conspiracy of Bicêtre, which made it possible to get rid, of more than seventy people, from 28 Prairal, until 8 Messidor, assembled by the Committee of general security, and Voulland in particular, with the downstream of Bertrand Barère de Vieuzac, Jacques Nicolas Billaud-Varenne, and Jean-Marie Collot d'Herbois, was the first operation of great width assembled after the law of the 22 Pairial. \n\nThe Osselin deputy, implied in corruption affairs, and who knew something about the corrupt practices of his former colleagues, of the Committee of general security, in particular Jean-Pierre-Andre Amar, and who had avoided capital punishment four months earlier, was one of these victims, from whom they feared revelations. It is Valagnos, a prisoner condemned to irons, and on standby of the deportation who had agreed to bear false witnesses, agreed to come out to charge the defendants at the revolutionary Tribunal. This business of false conspiracy was followed by \"the business\" of Luxembourg, a conspiracy whose reality rested, still exclusively, on the false witnesses of individuals who, against various promises, had to deposit with the revolutionary Tribunal, and which sometimes themselves were carried out thereafter.\n\nGround after the lawsuit of Danton and its co-defendants to the prison of Luxembourg where was the ex-general Arthur Dillon, Lucile Desmoulins, or Pierre-Gaspard Chaumette, the imaginary conspiracies, revealed and denounced by agents of the political police in the prisons of Paris, put back on an amalgam various unknown people the ones with the others under the same count of indictment - the \"rebellion\", to avoid dispersing in the maze of the personal cases. \n\nIt was the Committee of general security (and in particular and Amar - themselves under the direction of Vadier, Barère, collot d'Hebois and Billaud-Varennes - which was given the responsibility to supervise, and execute this machiavellian plan, in partnership with Fouquier-Tinville, , former president of the revolutionary Tribunal now police chief, with the civil administration, and courts, and the citizens , and Dupaumier, administrators of police force. All the principals rested on the false witnesses granted, or snatches other prisoners, sometimes of the \"false prisoners\" who, such Armand and Manini, were sent from prison to prison to obtain confidences or indiscretions of prisoners. \n\nFor example the practice that certain prisoners had to meet in the cell of one of them, which allowed, if necessary, to suppose that they plotted their escape with an aim of going to cut the throat of the members of the national representatives. With the Court, it was always the same question which was put to the defendants: \"Were you informed or not of a conspiracy which existed, (with Luxembourg or another prison according to the cases) and which exists there, in this moment even, and you denounced it?\" On the affirmative or the negative, one passed to the next.\n\nThe first conspiracy of Luxembourg was assembled by part of the Committee of general security to carry out a certain number of people, supposed accessory to Hébert and Danton, without those being able to express publicly, on the true reasons of their presence to the revolutionary Tribunal. This technique which consisted in closing the mouth of the marked \"defendant\", with a collective offence of \"conspiracy\", under the law of the 22 Prairal, which dispensed with public debates. \n\nJoined together were Lucile Desmoulins, and the general Arthur Dillon who had sought to communicate by message from a cell with the other, were joined together and amalgamated with their alleged \"accomplices\": Chaumette, Gobel, Francoise Hébert, the Lécuyer general who were charged, by the Court that prisoners themselves were in danger, and died like the Laflotte diplomat, or the comte de Ferrières-Sauvebeuf.\n\nOne of the administrators of , Wiltcherich, which had \"fabricated\" the alleged plot of Arthur Dillon, and of the woman of Camille Desmoulins Lucile (5 at 13 April 1794) will cooperate again with the Committee of general security in its task with \"purging\" the prison of Luxembourg of its prisoners. To join together a sufficient number of denunciations and false witnesses, it made sure of collaborators subordinates among whom: *un tailor of Saint-Omer named with the rank of lieutenant of infantry, that the revolutionary army had found makes indignant at it and who, imprisoned since the 20 brumaire year II, in Luxembourg, had charged Lucile Desmoulins and its co-defendants with the revolutionary Tribunal the 24 germinal year IIBoyenval was guillotine with Fouquier-Tinville in 1795;\n\nThe organization however was chapeautée by Jean-Pierre-Andre Amar of Committee of General Security, which, for this purpose, had on the spot dispatched its Leymerie secretary who acted in concert with the administrator of Faro police force charged with the \"research\" in the prisons. They thus recruited a certain number of writers of denunciations, and in Luxembourg, the principalLes others named Denis-Michel Julien, Jean-Louis Benoist, old Swiss, ex-police chief of the executive council, in the department of the Eure, Lenain, Antoine Vauchelet, trader, Meunier, Amans, Letellier, Louis Baraguay d'Hilliers, and Jean-Louis All Saints' day Beausire was, of not to doubt, Pierre-Joseph Boyenval besides, the Guyard caretaker, and his assistant the Verney clerk, had order to leave it and come to his own way, to nourish it suitably and to take care that it was as often as possible in liaison with the prisoners men and women. \n\nBoyenval was probably the indicator more cooperative the day before of Thermidor 9, it developed a news \"conspiracy\" of Luxembourg where it was understood that one would sacrifice two hundred people., with an Italian named Manini who prevailed in Saint-Lazare, the ex-count of Tool bag-Sauvebeuf to La Force or Louis-Guillaume Armand which had work with Holy-Pelagie for the account of Dossonville, principal agent of the Committee of general security, itself invested of quasi-unlimited capacities. Joined together \"in council\", the four collaborators, \"brigands\", consulted each other so as to draw up a list of names. This was not only the titles of nobility which appointed the prisoners but also \"resentments, whims or love\". \n\nSuch conspired because he had refused to let one of the four men be useful in his snuffbox, such other because he was not generous with the counter clerk, a third because he was the husband of a woman that Boyenval condescended to find pleasant. This one for example had registered on the list of condemned, the one named Gant whose wife was also locked up in the prison of Luxembourg. He deposited against Gant and the evening, he was with the feet of the frightened woman; two days after, one saw him giving the arm to that from which he came to send the husband to the guillotine.\" When the number of conspirators had reached the number of 154, one stopped. \n\nThe list was dispatched by the Committee of general security with Fouquier-Tinville. Contrary to the wishes of Bertrand Barère which wanted to consider the presumedly conspiry of the prison of Luxembourg, only once, they were distributed by Armand Hermann in three groups that were judged, after law the 22 Prairal year II - without debates and means of defense - in three meetings. In the parts given to the public prosecutor several denunciations, some not very detailed, as the others. That of Verney was to even be used for the alleged third conspiracy of Luxembourg which took place ten days later, Thermidor 4 year II. It was thus conceived:\nI undersigned Joseph Verney, carry-key at the prison of Luxembourg, declare that there still exists in this house of the accomplices of the conspiracy of Dillon, Simon, Boisgelin and above the marshal's wife de Lévis (...) and that its accomplices mainly are named… the\n(a list of name follows). And he adds:\nI attest moreover than named Beausire, Boyenval, Amans and Vauchelet, is in the case of to attest that all these individuals are truly the accomplices of this conspiracy, even the principal agents. In Paris, 22 messidor, etc\n\nIn front of revolutionary Tribunal the procedure was led with as much contempt, and absence of equity that in the preceding \"affaires\", in particular, that of the fifty-four accomplices of the plot of the foreigner that the persecution and execution of the red shirts [Procès et exécution des chemises rouges] to go to the torment. Fifty-nine marked were joined together on the benches of the Court where one asked them to answer by yes or no, the two questions which were asked to them: \"conspired?\" and \"be informed of a conspiracy?\". Fifty-nine people were condemned and guillotined. \n\nAmong them, an eighty-year-old man: , Abbot of Fénelon. Among the others appeared in particular Denis-Pierre-Jean Papillon of Ferté, above intendant of the menu of the king, Guillaume-Joseph Dupleix de Bacquencourt above intendant of Burgundy, Marc-Antoine-François-Marie Randon of the Tower (administrator of the Treasury), Louis-Joachim-Paris, , duc de Gesvres (compatriot of Louis de Saint-Just), Charles-Alexandre-Marc-Marcellin de Boussu de Chimay, prince d'Hénin, Aymar-Charles Nicolaï (ex-first chair Room of the Accounts) and , count of Château de Lugny.\n\nThis second meeting was composed of fifty marked. It had this remarkable thing; that two of the defendants were discharged; one of them admittedly was a 14-year-old child. On the other hand, the great architect Pierre-Louis Black-Desproux was included in this batch without same to be judged.\n\nIn this meeting which proceeded like the preceding ones, was present Georges-Louis Leclerc de Buffon - the son of the famous naturalist Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon, who, when he went up to the scaffold, shouted with reproach: \"I am the son of Buffon\". Present also was Jacques-Raoul Caradeuc of Chalotais, son of Louis-Rene Caradeuc of Chalotais, who was then known to be in a state of insanity.\n\nThis last raid in the prison of Luxembourg involved the execution of forty-five people among whom above the duchess of Brissac, the viscountess de Noailles accompanied by her mother, the duchess of Ayen, born Henriette d'Aguesseau and from her grandmother, the marshal's wife de Noailles, like her great-uncle Philippe de Noailles, duc de Mouchy and his wife. With them the hurdy-gurdy countess of Lachâtre, general of Flers, the Roger citizen of the section of Humanity,\n\nFrom the 25 messidor year II (July 13, 1794), the figure of the daily victims never went below thirty and reached that of sixty sometimes. All the famous names of Ancien Régime were reproduced on the list of the defendants. But on these tragic lists were also day laborers, soldiers, and ploughmen.\n\nThis project was a failure – it had there only three condemned to die – thanks to the courage of the Haly caretaker. See the letter of Gourreau quoted by Henri Wallon. See also Coittant p. 187: six indicators recruited by Benoist, which had already worked in Luxembourg, namely: Cupif, above inspector of the gardens of Tileries; Anne Cruau, shoe-maker; Charon, old domestic; Schaff, clock and watch maker; Folâtre, old ordering battalion de Bonne-Nouvelle.\n\nAfter the prison of Luxembourg was \"purged\" by the process, in the same way, they applied it to other houses of detention. It was still the office of Armand Hermann who caused the denunciations. They brought in front of revolutionary Tribunal the fifty-one prisoners of Prison of the Carmelite friars. The first prisoners of the prison of the Carmelite friars were judged on Thermidor 5 year II YEAR, and forty-six of them were condemned to die on the vague denunciations of the indicators. \n\nAmong them: Andre-Jean Butcher d' Argis (ex-lieutenant particular to Châtelet); François-Charles-Antoine d' Autichamps (canon with Notre-Dame) and brother of Vendean general; Louis-Marthe de Gouy d' Arsy (former deputy with the constituent Assembly); the general Alexandre François Marie de Beauharnais; Joachim-Charles de Soyecourt; Louis-Armand-Constantin, prince de Rohan-Montbazon; Gilles de Santerre (banking); Louis de Champcenetz (collaborator with the royalist newspaper \" Acts of the Apostles \"). The prisoners of the Carmelite friars were shown to have formed the project to escape.\n\nAmong the indicators of Prison Saint-Lazare, the prisoners quoted: *Pierre-Athanase Pip-Desgrouettes, former lawyer, itself, on the bolster since his arrest the 2 floréal. It was implied in one of these innumerable blackmails, to the warrant for arrest near suspect rich person, have his fate was between the hands of its former Dossonville accomplice; * Augustin-Germain Jobert the Belgian, who hopelessly sought to escape the scaffold which it menaçaitil was carried out besides on the run on Thermidor 11 year II by the diligence of Barère;\nThe worst, if one can say, came from Manini, who, like Boyenval in Luxembourg, made zeal, preceding the desires of its employers. Besides one closed the eyes on his \"indelicacies\" because it was notorious that he made \"to contribute\" prisoners. Several prisoners, like Aimee de Coigny, Montrond, or the former deputy Thomas de Treil de Pardailhan, managed against money, to be made stripe lists of prisoners denounced, little before the series of \"lawsuit\" in front of the revolutionary Tribunal.\n\nThe prisoners of the prison of Saint-Lazare appeared twice. It was with the first meeting, on July 25, that Fouquier-Tinville made a sadly dreadful pun. Marie-Louise of Laval-Montmorency old of seventy-two years old, abess of Montmartre, was deaf. Jean-Baptiste Coffinhal, which chaired, having questioned it, she kept silence, and as Fouquier-Tinville addressed the word in his turn to him, one of marked pointed out to him that prevented did not hear. Fouquier-Tinville murmured: \"They are good, they are good, we will put on the sentence that she conspired\" dully. \n\nThe writers Andre-Marie Chénier and Jean-Antoine Roucher also sat on the docks. With these writers appear the baron Frédérik de Trenck, seventy years old, the former adviser Louis-Valentine Goesman. Among the twenty-four condemned one still notices the marquis Gratien de Montalembert and of Roquelaure, the duke Charles-Alexandre de Créqui de Montmorency, the count Henri-Joseph de Bourdeille, the brother Joseph Raoul.\n\nOn July 26, 1794, the countess of Mursin, born Isabelle de Pigrais, paralysed, Mrs. Jolly de Fleury born Elisabeth Dubois de Courval; above the countess of Butler; the princess of Monaco; the marquis Louis-Armand-Joseph d' Usson (seventy-four years); the count de Beausset; Desfossés; Nicaut (ex-adviser at the Parliament of Dijon); Athanase-Jean Butcher (secretary of Jean-Sylvain Bailly); Dorothée de Cambon (woman of a former president of the Parliament of Toulouse); the two brothers Trudaine (Charles-Louis and Charles-Michel) and seventeen marked were condemned to death. \n\nA second meeting during which were considered defendants imprisoned with above and at the conclusion which condemned were joined together to the twenty-two of the \"conspiracy\" of Saint-Lazare, changed the full number of the executions envisaged on Thermidor 8 year II, to fifty three. On the fifty three condemned, seven women declared themselves pregnant, and were sent to the old people's home of the revolutionary Tribunal for examination. Several of them, the following day, belonged to the last cart of the Terror which a famous drawing of Raffet illustrates.\n\nAmong the papers found after Thermidor 9, those intended to inform the lawsuit of Fouquier-Tinville and his consorts, show that other mass executions were envisaged in the following days, while the arrests and imprisonments, were increasingly numerous. All the nobility of Neuilly-sur-Seine, Boulogne and Auteuil, had been captured in raids, and they waited to appear before the revolutionary Tribunal. They had also brought back to Paris, all the prisoners from the prisons of Chantilly, Amiens, and other places. In all, several hundred people languished in the blocked prisons. \n\nIt was all to be carried out from the political will of Barère, probably on order of certain foreign cabinets, to deprive France of its elites, and to make a bloodless prey, to parcel out like Poland. Contrary to this, that one believed and repeated, the takeover by force of Thermidor 9 year II, in the spirit of Barère, was to make it possible to get rid of Robespierre to continue with more rigour the great project of Terror, and the destruction of the Republic. \n\nThe \"day of the dupes\" on Thermidor 9, reversed the course of things, and the members of the joined committees, in the impossibility to continue their crimes, made against misfortune good heart and suddenly joined the Thermidoriens, to make accord with the opinion that, since Terror was stopped on Thermidor 10, it was well the exclusive work of Robespierre and his \"accomplices\", in all, a hundred men of Thermidor were carried out, without due process of the law, 10 and 11. They died instead of the hundreds of prisoners who were going to be marked, to conspire in the prisons. \n\nThe principal houses of detention in which one still erected scaffolding, the day before the chimerical conspiracies, those of Madelonnettes Papiers were found, II, p. 417: report/ratio of Faro on a letter \"found\" in Madelonnettes, revealing the existence of a conspiracy; of Free Port; of Plessis where the Courlet citizen had been requested to make denunciations against his fellows-prisoner to save his head. \n\nOther projects were in hand again to the Carmelite friars and even in Luxembourg who still counted to a great number of prisoners lately incarcerated, Olivier Blanc, the last letter, prisons and condemned revolution, Paris, 1984. Outstanding people were planned for this butchery and in particular Thomas Paine, future Mrs. de Fontenay Thérésa Tallien, girl of the Cabarrus banker, it marquis de Sade, Joséphine de Beauharnais, the general Lazare Hoche, the countess of Simiane born Aglaé of Damas, friend of Fayette, the painter Hubert Robert, Miss Contat of the French Comedy, it duchess d' Orleans, etc.\n\nThe most tested prisons were Luxembourg (315 executions 19,20, and 21 messidor then on Thermidor 4), Saint-Lazare (165 executions Thermidor 6,7 and 8), Bicêtre 76 executions 28 prairal, and 8 messidor, the Carmelite friars (49 executions on Thermidor 5). All the victims of the conspiracy of the prisons were buried in Picpus Cemetery.\n\nAfter the fall of Maximilien de Robespierre Thermidor 9 year II (July 21, 1794) the prisons were opened and the prisoners released.\n\nThe terror falls with the Thermidorian Reaction: the responsibility for these crimes projected on the \"Robespierrists\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1094579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1094579", "title": "Red light camera", "text": "Red light camera\n\nA red light camera (short for red light running camera) is a type of traffic enforcement camera that captures an image of a vehicle which has entered an intersection in spite of the traffic signal indicating red (during the red phase). By automatically photographing vehicles that run red lights, the photo is evidence that assists authorities in their enforcement of traffic laws. Generally the camera is triggered when a vehicle enters the intersection (passes the stop-bar) after the traffic signal has turned red. Typically, a law enforcement official will review the photographic evidence and determine whether a violation occurred. A citation is then usually mailed to the owner of the vehicle found to be in violation of the law. These cameras are used worldwide, in countries including: Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom, Singapore and the United States. If a proper identification cannot be made, instead of a ticket, some police departments send out a notice of violation to the owner of the vehicle, requesting identifying information so that a ticket may be issued later.\n\nThere is debate and ongoing research about the use of red light cameras. Authorities cite public safety as the primary reason that the cameras are installed, while opponents contend their use is more for financial gain.\nThere have been concerns that red light cameras scare drivers (who want to avoid a ticket) into more sudden stops, which may increase the risk of rear-end collisions. The elevated incentive to stop may mitigate side collisions. Some traffic signals have an all red duration, allowing a grace period of a few seconds before the cross-direction turns green. Some studies have confirmed more rear-end collisions where red light cameras have been used, while side collisions decreased, but the overall collision rate has been mixed. In some areas, the length of the yellow phase has been increased to provide a longer warning to accompany the red-light-running-camera. There is also concern that the international standard formula used for setting the length of the yellow phase ignores the laws of physics, which may cause drivers to inadvertently run the red phase.\n\nRed light cameras were first developed in the Netherlands by Gatso. Worldwide, red light cameras have been in use since the 1960s, and were used for traffic enforcement in Israel as early as 1969. The first red light camera system was introduced in 1965, using tubes stretched across the road to detect the violation and subsequently trigger the camera. One of the first developers of these red light camera systems was Gatsometer BV.\n\nThe cameras first received serious attention in the United States in the 1980s following a highly publicized crash in 1982, involving a red-light runner who collided with an 18-month-old girl in a stroller (or \"push-chair\") in New York City. Subsequently, a community group worked with the city's Department of Transportation to research automated law-enforcement systems to identify and ticket drivers who run red lights. New York's red-light camera program went into effect in 1993. From the 1980s onward, red light camera usage expanded worldwide, and one of the early camera system developers, Poltech International, supplied Australia, Britain, South Africa, Taiwan, the Netherlands and Hong Kong. American Traffic Systems (subsequently American Traffic Solutions) (ATS) and Redflex Traffic Systems emerged as the primary suppliers of red light camera systems in the US, while Jenoptik became the leading provider of red light cameras worldwide.\n\nInitially, all red light camera systems used film, which was delivered to local law enforcement departments for review and approval. The first digital camera system was introduced in Canberra in December 2000, and digital cameras have increasingly replaced the older film cameras in other locations since then.\n\nRed light cameras are typically installed in protective metal boxes attached to poles (different from the radar guns carried by police officers) at intersections, which are often specifically chosen due to high numbers of crashes and/or red-light-running violations. Red light camera systems typically employ two closely spaced inductive loops embedded in the pavement just before the limit line, to measure the speed of vehicles. Using the speed measured, the system predicts if a particular vehicle will not be able to stop before entering the intersection, and takes two photographs of the event. The first photo shows the vehicle just before it enters the intersection, with the light showing red, and the second photo, taken a second or two later, shows the vehicle when it is in the intersection.\n\nDetails that may be recorded by the camera system (and later presented to the vehicle owner) include: the date and time, the location, the vehicle speed, and the amount of time elapsed since the light turned red and the vehicle passed into the intersection. The event is captured as a series of photographs or a video clip, or both, depending on the technology used, which shows the vehicle before it enters the intersection on a red light signal and its progress through the intersection. The data and images, whether digital or developed from film, are sent to the relevant law enforcement agency. There, the information is typically reviewed by a law enforcement official or police department clerk, who determines if a violation occurred and, if so, approves issuing a citation to the vehicle owner, who may challenge the citation.\n\nStudies have shown that 38% of violations occur within 0.25 seconds of the light turning red and 79% within one second. A few red light camera systems allow a \"grace period\" of up to half a second for drivers who pass through the intersection just as the light turns red. Ohio and Georgia introduced a statute requiring that one second be added to the standard yellow time of any intersection that has a red light camera, which has led to an 80% reduction in tickets since its introduction. New Jersey has the strictest yellow timing provisions in the country as a result of concerns that cameras would be used to generate revenue; they have a statute specifying that the yellow time for an intersection that has a red light camera must be based on the speed at which 85% of the road's traffic moves rather than be based on the road's actual speed limit.\n\nRed light camera usage is widespread in a number of countries worldwide. Netherlands-based Gatso presented red light cameras to the market in 1965, and red light cameras were used for traffic enforcement in Israel as early as 1969. In the early 1970s, red light cameras were used for traffic enforcement in at least one jurisdiction in Europe. Australia began to use them on a wide scale in the 1980s. , expansion of red light camera usage in Australia is ongoing. In some areas of Australia, where the red light cameras are used, there is an online system to check the photograph taken of your vehicle if you receive a ticket. Singapore also began use of red light cameras in the 1980s, and installed the first camera systems during five years, starting in August 1986. In Canada, by 1998, red light cameras were in use in British Columbia and due to be implemented in Manitoba. In Alberta, red light cameras were installed in 1999 in Edmonton and in 2001 in Calgary. The UK first installed cameras in the 1990s, with the earliest locations including eight rail crossings in Scotland where there was greatest demand for enforcement of traffic signals due to fatalities.\n\nRed light camera usage is extensive in mainland China. , approximately 700 intersections in Shenzhen were monitored for red light violations, speeding, or both.\n\nIn Hong Kong, where red light cameras are installed, signs are erected to warn drivers that cameras are present, with the aim of educating drivers to stop for signals. The number of red light cameras in Hong Kong doubled in May 2004, and digital red light cameras were introduced at intersections identified by the police and transport department as having the most violations and greatest risk. The digital cameras were introduced to further deter red-light running. As added assistance to drivers, some of the camera posts were painted orange so that drivers could see them more easily. By 2006, Hong Kong had 96 red light cameras in operation. By 2016 this number had risen to 195.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the authorities often refer to red-light cameras, along with speed cameras, as \"safety cameras\". They were first used in the early 1990s, with initial deployment by the Department for Environment, Transport and the Regions. All costs were paid by the local authority in which the individual camera was placed, and revenues accrued from fines were paid to the Treasury Consolidated Fund. In 1998 the government handed the powers of collection to local road-safety partnerships, comprising \"... local authorities, Magistrates' Courts, the Highways Agency and the police.\"\n\nIn a report, published in December 2005, there were a total of 612 red light cameras in England alone, of which 225 were in London.\n\nSince the early 1990s, red light cameras have been used in the United States in 26 U.S. states and the District of Columbia. Within some states, the cameras may only be permitted in certain areas. For example, in New York State, the Vehicle and Traffic Law permits red light cameras only within cities with a population above 1 million (i.e. New York City), Rochester, Buffalo, Yonkers, and Nassau and Suffolk Counties. In Florida, a state law went into effect on 1 July 2010, which allows all municipalities in the state to use red light cameras on all state-owned rights-of-way and fine drivers who run red lights, with the aim of enforcing safe driving, according to then-Governor Charlie Crist. The name given to the state law is the Mark Wandall Traffic Safety Act, named for a man who was killed in 2003 by a motorist who ran a red light. In addition to allowing the use of cameras, the law also standardizes driver fines.\nMajor cities throughout the US that use red light cameras include Atlanta, Austin, Baltimore, Baton Rouge, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Los Angeles, Memphis, New Orleans, New York City, Newark, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Raleigh, San Francisco, Seattle, Toledo, and Washington, D.C. Albuquerque has cameras, but in October 2011 local voters approved a ballot measure advising the city council to cease authorizing the red light camera program. The City of Albuquerque ended its red light program on 31 December 2011.\n\nIn March 2017, the city of Chicago changed the period of time between when the light turns red and when the red-light camera is triggered (and a ticket issued) from 0.1 seconds to 0.3 seconds. The \"grace period\" in Chicago is now in line with other major American cities like New York City and Philadelphia.\n\nSuppliers of red-light cameras in the US include: Affiliated Computer Services (ACS) State and Local Solutions, a Xerox company, of Dallas, Texas; American Traffic Solutions of Scottsdale, Arizona, 1/3 owned by Goldman Sachs; Brekford International Corp., of Hanover, Maryland; CMA Consulting Services, Inc. of Latham, New York; Gatso USA of Beverly, Massachusetts; iTraffic Safety LLC of Ridgeland, South Carolina; Optotraffic, of Lanham, Maryland; Redflex Traffic Systems of Phoenix, Arizona, with its parent company in Australia; RedSpeed-Illinois LLC, of Lombard, Illinois, whose parent company is in Worcestershire, England; SafeSpeed LLC, of Chicago, Illinois, and Sensys America Inc., of Miami, Florida.\n\nSome states have chosen to prohibit the use of red light cameras. These include Arkansas, Maine, Michigan, Mississippi, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire and West Virginia.\n\nIn February 2012, the red light camera ordinance in the city of St. Louis was officially declared void by St. Louis Circuit Court Judge Mark Neill. On 9 August 2012, the Cary, North Carolina town council voted to end their program. In February 2013, the San Diego mayor helped remove a red light camera to keep the campaign promise he made during the November 2012 election to eliminate these systems. New Jersey had to renew the Red Light law by the state legislature in early 2015 and did not do this, making the use of red light cameras illegal in the state afterwards.\n\nIn the United States, fines are not standardized and vary to a great degree, from $50 in New York City to approximately $500 in California. The cost in California can increase to approximately $600 if the motorist elects to attend traffic school in order to avoid having a demerit point added to his or her driving record.\n\nIn many California police departments, when a positive identification cannot be made, the registered owner of the vehicle will be mailed a \"notice of traffic violation\" instead of a real ticket. Also known as \"snitch tickets,\" these notices are used to request identifying information about the driver of the vehicle during the alleged violation. Because these notices have not been filed at court, they carry no legal weight and the registered owner is under no obligation to respond. In California, a genuine ticket will bear the name and address of the local branch of the Superior Court and direct the recipient to contact that court. In contrast, a \"notice of traffic violation\" generated by the police will omit court information, using statements like \"This is not a notice to appear\" and \"Do not forward this information to the Court.\"\n\nIn September 2014, a bill was proposed in New Jersey to disallow the state Motor Vehicle Commission from sharing license plate and driver information needed to cite New Jersey drivers accused of committing infractions in another state.\n\nA report in 2003 by the National Cooperative Highway Research Program (NCHRP) examined studies from the previous 30 years in Australia, the UK, Singapore, and the US, and concluded that red light cameras \"improve the overall safety of intersections where they are used.\" While the report states that evidence is not conclusive (partly due to flaws in the studies), the majority of studies show a reduction in angle crashes, a smaller increase in rear-end crashes, with some evidence of a \"spillover\" effect of reduced red light running to other intersections within a jurisdiction. These findings are similar to a 2005 meta analysis, which compared the results of 10 controlled before-after studies of red light cameras in the US, Australia, and Singapore. The analysis stated that the studies showed a reduction in crashes (up to almost 30%) in which there were injuries, however, evidence was less conclusive for a reduction in total collisions. Studies of red light cameras worldwide show a reduction of crashes involving injury by about 25% to 30%, taking into account increases in rear-end crashes, according to testimony from a meeting of the Virginia House of Delegates Militia, Police, and Public Safety Committee in 2003. These findings are supported by a review of more than 45 international studies carried out in 2010, which found that red light cameras reduce red light violation rates, crashes resulting from red light running, and usually reduce right-angle collisions.\n\nAmongst the many researched safety benefits of installing RLCs, few studies have examined drivers' behavior change in relation to red-light cameras showing that at these intersections drivers tended to react quicker to a yellow light change when stopping. The consequence of this change could be the slight decline in the intersection capacity.\nIn terms of location-specific studies, in Singapore a study from 2003 found that there was \"a substantial drop\" in red light violations at intersections with red light cameras. In particular the study found that drivers were encouraged to stop more readily in areas with red light cameras in use. A report from civic administrators in Saskatchewan in 2001, when considering red light camera use, referred to studies in the Netherlands and Australia that found a 40% decrease in red light violations and 32% decrease in right-angle crashes where red light cameras were installed. Following the introduction of red light cameras in Western Australia, the number of serious right-angle crashes decreased by 40%, according to an article from the \"Canberra Times\". In an article from the Xinhua General News Service, the Hong Kong transport department reported that in 2006 the monthly average number of crashes due to red light violations fell 25% and the number of people injured in these crashes decreased by 30%, following an increase in the number of red light cameras in use.\n\nIn the U.S. and Canada, a number of studies have examined whether red light cameras produce a safety benefit. A 2005 study by the U.S. Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) suggests red light cameras reduce dangerous right-angle crashes. The FHWA study has been criticized as containing critical methodological and analytical flaws and failing to explain an increase in fatalities associated with red light camera use:(...)the authors spotlight the statistical difficulties of including the cost of fatalities, while ignoring the practical implications of such events (...) assuming that each angle injury crash had a societal cost of $64,468, when in fact the cost was $82,816 before camera use and $100,176 after camera use(...)\n\nIIHS research on the safety effects of red light cameras has also been criticized as biased and methodologically flawed.\n\nNot all studies have been favorable to the use of red light cameras. A 2004 study of 17,271 crashes from North Carolina A & T University showed that the presence of red light cameras \"increased\" the overall number of crashes by 40%. This research received no peer review and is considered flawed by the IIHS. A 2005 Virginia Department of Transportation study of the long-term effects of camera enforcement in the state found a decrease in the number of right-angle crashes with injuries, but an increase in rear-end crashes and an overall increase in the number of crashes causing injuries. In 2007, the department issued an updated report which showed that the overall number of crashes at intersections with red light cameras increased. This report concluded that the decision to install red light cameras should be made on an intersection-by-intersection basis as some intersections saw decreases in crashes and injuries that justified the use of red light cameras, while others saw increases in crashes, indicating that the cameras were not suitable in that location. This study, too, is considered flawed by the IIHS. Aurora, Colorado experienced mixed results with red light cameras; after starting camera enforcement at 4 intersections, crashes decreased by 60% at one, increased 100% at two, and increased 175% at the fourth. According to the IIHS, most studies suggest the increase in rear-end collisions decreases once drivers have become accustomed to the new dynamics of the intersection. Some locations experience a decrease in rear-end collisions at intersections with red light cameras over time, for instance, in Los Angeles such collisions fell 4.7% from 2008 to 2009. However, a 2010 analysis by the Los Angeles City Controller found L.A.'s red light cameras hadn't demonstrated an improvement in safety, specifically that of the 32 intersections equipped with cameras, 12 saw more crashes than before the cameras were installed, 4 had the same number, and 16 had fewer crashes; also that factors other than the cameras may have been responsible for the reduced crashes at the 16 intersections. And in Winnipeg, Manitoba, crashes were found to have significantly increased in the years following the deployment of red light cameras. In 2010, Arizona completed a study of their statewide 76 photo enforcement cameras and decided they would not renew the program in 2011; lower revenue than expected, mixed public acceptance and mixed accident data were cited.\n\nNevertheless, the FHWA has concluded that the cameras yielded a positive overall cost benefit due to the reduction in more expensive right-angle injury collisions. Other studies have found a greater crash reduction. For example, a 2005 study of the Raleigh, North Carolina, red light camera program conducted by the Institute for Transportation Research and Education at North Carolina State University found right-angle crashes dropped by 42%, rear-end crashes dropped by 25% and total crashes dropped by 17%. In 2010, the IIHS looked at results of a number of studies and found that red light cameras reduce total collisions and particularly reduce the type of crashes that are especially likely to cause injuries. A 2011 IIHS report concluded that the rate of fatal collisions involving red-light running in cities with a population of 200,000 or greater was 24% lower with cameras than it would have been without cameras.\n\nA 2009 Public Opinion Strategies poll which asked, \"Do you support or oppose the use of red-light cameras to detect red-light runners and enforce traffic laws in your state's most dangerous intersections?\" found 69% support and 29% oppose. A 2012 telephone survey of District of Columbia residents published in the journal \"Traffic Injury Prevention\" found that 87% favored red light cameras.\n\nThe National Motorists Association opposes red light cameras on the grounds that the use of these devices raises legal issues and violates the privacy of citizens. They also argue that the use of red light cameras does not increase safety. In the US, AAA Auto Club South argued against the passage of a Florida state law to allow red light cameras, stating that use of red light cameras was primarily for raising money for the state and local government coffers and would not increase road safety. Worse, there are allegations of corruption in shortening the amber to increase the number of tickets. The construction of speed breakers or road bumps were conventional methods of forcing motorists to lower speeds, but were dropped at locales in favor of cameras due to lobbying efforts.\n\nIn Norway, Spain, and the Netherlands, a postal survey in 2003 showed acceptance of the use of red light cameras for traffic enforcement. For some groups, the enforcement of traffic laws is considered the main reason for using the red light cameras. For example, a report from civic administrators in Canada's Saskatoon in 2001 described the cameras as \"simply an enforcement tool used to penalize motorists that fail to stop for red traffic signals.\"\n\n Arizona, Arkansas, Louisiana, Maine, Mississippi, Montana, Nevada, New Jersey, South Carolina, South Dakota, Utah, West Virginia, and Wisconsin have enacted various prohibitions on red light, speed or other photo enforcement camera uses. Restrictions or conditions exist in additional states; the New Mexico Department of Transportation, for example, has asserted the right to restrict or prohibit red light cameras on state highways. While red light cameras may not be prohibited in other regions, they may have some restrictions on their use. In some jurisdictions, the law says that the camera needs to obtain a photo of the driver's face in order for the citation issued for running the red light to be valid. This is the case in California and Colorado where the red light cameras are set up to take a series of photographs, including one of the driver's face. In California, state law assesses a demerit point against a driver who runs a red light, and the need to identify the actual violator has led to the creation of a unique investigatory tool, the fake \"ticket.\" Groups opposing the use of red light cameras have argued that where the cameras are not set up to identify the vehicle driver, owner liability issues are raised. It is perceived by some that the owner of the vehicle is unfairly penalized by being considered liable for red-light violations although they may not have been the driver at the time of the offense. In most jurisdictions the liability for red light violations is a civil offense, rather than a criminal citation, issued upon the vehicle owner—similar to a parking ticket. The issue of owner liability has been addressed in the US courts, with a ruling in the District of Columbia Court of Appeals in 2007, which agreed with a lower court when it found that the presumption of liability of the owners of vehicles issued citations does not violate due process rights. This ruling was supported by a 2009 7th US Circuit Court of Appeals ruling in which it was held that issuing citations to vehicle owners (or lessees) is constitutional. The court stated that it also encourages drivers to be cautious in lending their vehicles to others.\n\nThe argument that red light cameras violate the privacy of citizens, has also been addressed in the US courts. According to a 2009 ruling by the 7th US Circuit Court of Appeals, \"no one has a fundamental right to run a red light or avoid being seen by a camera on a public street.\" In addition, cameras only take photographs or video when a vehicle has run a red light and, in most states, the camera does not photograph the driver or the occupants of the vehicle.\n\nIn most areas, red light enforcement cameras are installed and maintained by private firms. Lawsuits have been raised challenging private companies' rights to hand out citations, such as a December 2008 lawsuit challenging the city of Dallas' red light camera program, which was dismissed in March 2009. In most cases, citations are issued by law enforcement officers using the evidence provided by the companies.\n\nThere have been many instances where cities in the US have been found to have too-short yellow-light intervals at some intersections where red light cameras have been installed. In Tennessee, 176 drivers were refunded for fines paid after it was discovered that the length of the yellow was too short for that location, and motorists were caught running the light in the first second of the red phase. In California, a combined total of 7603 tickets were refunded or dismissed by the cities of Bakersfield, Costa Mesa, East LA, San Carlos, and Union City, because of too-short yellows. Although national guidelines addressing the length of traffic signals are available, traffic signal phase times are determined by the government employees of the city, county or state for that signalized location. While some states set jurisdiction-wide constant durations for yellow-light intervals, a new standard is taking hold. States are required to adopt the 2009 National Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) as their legal state standard for traffic-control devices since 2011. These standards require engineering practices to be used to set yellow-light-timing durations at individual intersections and or corridors. For guidance to state authorities, MUTCD states yellow lights should have a minimum duration of 3 seconds and a maximum duration of 6 seconds. The deadline for compliance is 2014. In the US, if any part of a driver's vehicle has already passed into the intersection when the signal turns red, a violation is not generated. A ticket is only issued if the vehicle enters the intersection while the light is red.\n\nIn 2014, a bill was introduced in the United States House of Representatives attempting to prohibit red light cameras on federally funded highways and in the District of Columbia.\n\nIn 2010, it was revealed that the municipality of Segrate, Italy, two nearby traffic lights had been synchronized such that drivers were coerced to either break the speed limit or pass during the red light. This was investigated as a deliberate fraud to increase the income from tickets. It took months before the machines were eventually dismantled by the Guardia di Finanza.\n\nA red light camera is not the only countermeasure against red-light running. Others include increasing the visibility distance and conspicuity of the traffic light so it is more likely to attract the driver's attention in time for him or her to stop, re-timing lights so drivers will encounter fewer red ones, increasing the duration of the yellow light between the green and the red, adding a \"clearance\" phase to the intersection's traffic signals, during which all directions have a red light. It has been posited that the regulatory minimum yellow duration has been decreased over the years, that this is a cause of the increase in red-light running, and that the latter countermeasures amount to a reversion to earlier, longer regulated yellow-light durations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1170230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170230", "title": "Remensa", "text": "Remensa\n\nRemensa (Catalan: \"Remença\") was a Catalan mode of serfdom. Those who were serfs under this mode are properly \"pagesos de remença\" (\"pagesos\" meaning \"peasants\"); they are often (though not quite correctly) referred to simply as \"remences\" (singular \"remença\").\n\nThe Catalan term \"remença\" derives from the Latin \"redementia\" and emphasizes the possibility of redemption from servitude.\n\nThe severity of this way of life led to rebellions by the remensa peasants in 1462 and 1485 known as the War of the Remences. After the second revolt, King Ferdinand II of Aragon issued the \"Sentencia de Guadalupe\" (1486), outlawing the more severe abuses of the oppressive evil customs and allowing remensa peasants to be redeemed by a payment of 60 sous per household, leaving a rural society that was still feudal in character, but significantly reformed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50881404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50881404", "title": "Richardson Institute", "text": "Richardson Institute\n\nThe Richardson Institute for Peace Studies was the first peace & conflict research centre in the UK and one of the first in the world. It is part of the Department of Politics, Philosophy, and Religion at Lancaster University, where its members publish research, hold lectures and workshops, and run academic outreach programmes.\n\nThe Richardson Institute began as an independent organisation, the Lancaster Peace Research Centre, in the North of England in 1959. The Centre was incorporated first into the Politics Department at Lancaster University, and then in 1969 into a branch of the Conflict Research Society at the University of Kent. There the Centre was renamed the Richardson Institute for Conflict and Peace Research in honour of the polymath and pacifist Lewis Fry Richardson, and was moved to 158 North Gower St, London, which it shared with the Women’s Research and Resources Centre. During this time the Institute not only published academic papers, but also released an animated film about the nature of human communication in the United States.\n\nOn 1 October 1978, with funding from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, the Institute returned to Lancaster University as an autonomous body of the Politics Department. There its activities diversified into undergraduate and postgraduate teaching, ultimately leading to the creation of a studentship in 2006. Its early minor course in conflict & peace research proved particularly popular, and the Institute became renowned for lecturing in \"unashamedly behavioural\" models of social science. In 1990 the members of the Institute consolidated their work by publishing \"A Reader in Peace Studies\", a basic text that became set reading for many introductory peace studies courses. As a result of this new activity, the Institute was given the more general trade name of the Richardson Institute for Peace Studies.\n\nAs the Institute shared more of the Politics Department’s day-to-day teaching responsibilities, its other activities declined. With funding from the Arts and Humanities Research Council, the Institute was re-launched in September 2012. In 2013 it began the Richardson Institute Internship Programme, a year-long, multidisciplinary research placement with such partners as the Institute for Strategic Dialogue and the Ministry of Defence, and in 2016 it opened a course in the political theology of peace as the first in a number of distance learning modules on positive politics. The Institute also hosts an annual peace lecture series and runs a film club. Its present aim is to become an international partner of choice for universities and to improve the public understanding of peace. Since 2012 the Institute has published on such diverse topics as Indo-Pak relations, sexuality in the Anglican Church, and maritime cyber operations, and the ESRC has rated its research as outstanding.\n\n"}
{"id": "165404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165404", "title": "Sanhedrin", "text": "Sanhedrin\n\nThe Sanhedrin (Hebrew and Jewish Palestinian Aramaic: סנהדרין; Greek: Συνέδριον, \"synedrion\", \"sitting together,\" hence \"assembly\" or \"council\") were assemblies of either twenty-three or seventy-one rabbis appointed to sit as a tribunal in every city in the ancient Land of Israel. \n\nThere were two classes of rabbinical courts called Sanhedrin, the \"Great Sanhedrin\" and the \"Lesser Sanhedrin\". A lesser Sanhedrin of 23 judges was appointed to each city, but there was to be only one Great Sanhedrin of 71 judges, which among other roles acted as the Supreme Court, taking appeals from cases decided by lesser courts. In general usage, \"The Sanhedrin\" without qualifier normally refers to the Great Sanhedrin, which was composed of the \"Nasi\", who functioned as head or representing president, and was a member of the court; the \"Av Beit Din\" or chief of the court, who was second to the \"nasi\"; and sixty-nine general members (\"Mufla\"). \n\nIn the Second Temple period, the Great Sanhedrin met in the Temple in Jerusalem, in a building called the Hall of Hewn Stones. The Great Sanhedrin convened every day except festivals and the sabbath day (Shabbat). \n\nAfter the destruction of the Second Temple and the failure of the Bar Kokhba Revolt, the Great Sanhedrin moved to Galilee, which became part of the Roman province of Syria Palaestina. In this period the Sanhedrin was sometimes referred as the \"Galilean Patriarchate\" or \"Patriarchate of Palaestina\", being the governing legal body of Galilean Jewry. In the late 200s, to avoid persecution, the name \"Sanhedrin\" was dropped and its decisions were issued under the name of \"Beit HaMidrash\" (house of learning). The last universally binding decision of the Great Sanhedrin appeared in 358 CE, when the Hebrew Calendar was abandoned. The Great Sanhedrin was finally disbanded in 425 CE after continued persecution by the Eastern Roman Empire.\n\nOver the centuries, there have been attempts to revive the institution, such as the Grand Sanhedrin convened by Napoleon Bonaparte, and modern attempts in Israel.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, Moses and the Israelites were commanded by God to establish courts of judges who were given full authority over the people of Israel, who were commanded by God to obey every word the judges instructed and every law they established. Judges in ancient Israel were the religious leaders and teachers of the nation of Israel. The Mishnah arrives at the number twenty-three based on an exegetical derivation: it must be possible for a \"community\" to vote for both conviction and exoneration. The minimum size of a \"community\" is 10 men (10 vs 10). One more is required to achieve a majority (11 vs 10), but a simple majority cannot convict, and so an additional judge is required (12 vs 10). Finally, a court should not have an even number of judges to prevent deadlocks; thus 23 (12 vs 10 and 1). This court dealt with only religious matters.\n\nThe Hasmonean court in the Land of Israel, presided over by Alexander Jannaeus, king of Judea until 76 BCE, followed by his wife, was called \"Synhedrion\" or \"Sanhedrin.\" The exact nature of this early Sanhedrin is not clear. It may have been a body of sages or priests, or a political, legislative and judicial institution. The first historical record of the body was during the administration of Aulus Gabinius, who, according to Josephus, organized five \"synedra\" in 57 BCE as Roman administration was not concerned with religious affairs unless sedition was suspected. Only after the destruction of the Second Temple was the Sanhedrin made up only of sages.\n\nThe first historic mention of a \"Synhedrion\" (Greek: Συνέδριον) occurs in the Psalms of Solomon (XVII:49), a Jewish religious book written in Greek.\n\nA \"Synhedrion\" is mentioned 22 times in the Greek New Testament, including in the Gospels in relation to the trial of Jesus, and in the \"Acts of the Apostles\", which mentions a ″Great Synhedrion″ in chapter 5 where rabbi Gamaliel appeared, and also in chapter 7 in relation to the stoning death of Saint Stephen.\n\nThe Talmud tractate Sanhedrin (IV:2) states that the Sanhedrin was to be recruited from the following sources: former High Priests, representatives of the 24 priestly castes, scribes, doctors of the law, and representatives of the most prominent families (those whose daughters were allowed to marry priests).\n\nIn the Second Temple period, the Great Sanhedrin met in the Hall of Hewn Stones in the Temple in Jerusalem. The court convened every day except festivals and the sabbath day (Shabbat).\n\nAfter the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 CE, the Sanhedrin was re-established in Yavneh with reduced authority. The seat of the Patriarchate moved to Usha under the presidency of Gamaliel II in 80 CE. In 116 it moved back to Yavneh, and then again back to Usha.\n\nRabbinic texts indicate that following the Bar Kokhba revolt, southern Galilee became the seat of rabbinic learning in the Land of Israel. This region was the location of the court of the Patriarch which was situated first at Usha, then at Bet Shearim, later at Sepphoris and finally at Tiberias.\n\nThe Great Sanhedrin moved in 140 to Shefaram under the presidency of Shimon ben Gamliel II, and to Beit Shearim and Sepphoris in 163, under the presidency of Judah I. Finally, it moved to Tiberias in 193, under the presidency of Gamaliel III (193–230) ben Judah haNasi, where it became more of a consistory, but still retained, under the presidency of Judah II (230–270), the power of excommunication.\n\nDuring the presidency of Gamaliel IV (270–290), due to Roman persecution, it dropped the name Sanhedrin; and its authoritative decisions were subsequently issued under the name of \"Beth HaMidrash\".\n\nIn the year 363, the emperor Julian (r. 355–363 CE), an apostate from Christianity, ordered the Temple rebuilt. The project's failure has been ascribed to the Galilee earthquake of 363, and to the Jews' ambivalence about the project. Sabotage is a possibility, as is an accidental fire. Divine intervention was the common view among Christian historians of the time. As a reaction against Julian's pro-Jewish stance, the later emperor Theodosius I (r. 379–392 CE) forbade the Sanhedrin to assemble and declared ordination illegal. Capital punishment was prescribed for any Rabbi who received ordination, as well as complete destruction of the town where the ordination occurred.\n\nHowever, since the Hebrew calendar was based on witnesses' testimony, which had become far too dangerous to collect, rabbi Hillel II recommended change to a mathematically based calendar that was adopted at a clandestine, and maybe final, meeting in 358 CE. This marked the last universal decision made by the Great Sanhedrin.\n\nGamaliel VI (400–425) was the Sanhedrin's last president. With his death in 425, Theodosius II outlawed the title of Nasi, the last remains of the ancient Sanhedrin. An imperial decree of 426 diverted the patriarchs' tax (\"post excessum patriarchorum\") into the imperial treasury. The exact reason for the abrogation of the patriarchate is not clear, though Gamaliel VI, the last holder of the office who had been for a time elevated by the emperor to the rank of prefect, may have fallen out with the imperial authorities. Thereafter, Jews were gradually excluded from holding public office.\n\nThe Talmud tractate Sanhedrin identifies two classes of rabbinical courts called Sanhedrin, a Great Sanhedrin (בית דין הגדול) and a Lesser Sanhedrin (בית דין הקטן). Each city could have its own lesser Sanhedrin of 23 judges, but there could be only one Great Sanhedrin of 71, which among other roles acted as the Supreme Court, taking appeals from cases decided by lesser courts. The uneven numbers of judges were predicated on eliminating the possibility of a tie and the last to cast their vote was the head of the court.\n\nThe Sanhedrin as a body claimed powers that lesser Jewish courts did not have. As such, they were the only ones who could try the king, extend the boundaries of the Temple and Jerusalem, and were the ones to whom all questions of law were finally put. Before 191 BCE the High Priest acted as the \"ex officio\" head of the Sanhedrin, but in 191 BCE, when the Sanhedrin lost confidence in the High Priest, the office of Nasi was created. After the time of Hillel the Elder (late 1st century BCE and early 1st century CE), the Nasi was almost invariably a descendant of Hillel. The second highest-ranking member of the Sanhedrin was called the Av Beit Din, or \"Head of the Court\" (literally, Av Beit Din = \"father of the house of judgment\"), who presided over the Sanhedrin when it sat as a criminal court.\n\nDuring Second Temple era, the Sanhedrin met in a building known as the Hall of Hewn Stones (\"Lishkat ha-Gazit\"), which has been placed by the Talmud and many scholars as built into the north wall of the Temple Mount, half inside the sanctuary and half outside, with doors providing access both to the Temple and to the outside. The name presumably arises to distinguish it from the buildings in the Temple complex used for ritual purposes, which had to be constructed of stones unhewn by any iron implements.\n\nIn some cases, it was only necessary for a 23-member panel (functioning as a Lesser Sanhedrin) to convene. In general, the full panel of 71 judges was only convened on matters of national significance (e.g., a declaration of war) or in the event that the 23-member panel could not reach a conclusive verdict.\n\nBy the end of the Second Temple period, the Sanhedrin reached its pinnacle of importance, legislating all aspects of Jewish religious and political life within the parameters laid down by Biblical and Rabbinic tradition.\n\nThe following is a summary of the powers and responsibilities of the Patriarchate from the onset of the third century, based on rabbinic sources as portrayed by L.I. Levine:\n\nUp to the middle of the fourth century, the Patriarchate retained the prerogative of determining the Hebrew calendar and guarded the intricacies of the calculation process in an effort to subdue interference from the Babylonian community. Due to Christian persecution, Hillel II was obliged to fix the calendar in permanent form in 359 CE. This institution symbolized the passing of authority from the Patriarchate to the Babylonian Academies.\n\nIn 2004, excavations in Tiberias conducted by the Israel Antiquities Authority uncovered a structure dating to the 3rd century CE that may have been the seat of the Sanhedrin when it convened in that city. At the time it was called Beit Hava'ad.\n\nBefore 191 BCE the High Priest acted as the \"ex officio\" head of the Sanhedrin, but in 191 BCE, when the Sanhedrin lost confidence in the High Priest, the office of Nasi was created. The Sanhedrin was headed by the chief scholars of the great Talmudic Academies in the Land of Israel, and with the decline of the Sanhedrin, their spiritual and legal authority was generally accepted, the institution itself being supported by voluntary contributions by Jews throughout the ancient world. Being a member of the house of Hillel and thus a descendant of King David, the Patriarch, known in Hebrew as the \"Nasi\" (prince), enjoyed almost royal authority. Their functions were political rather than religious, though their influence was not limited to the secular realm. The Patriarchate attained its zenith under Judah ha-Nasi who compiled the Mishnah, a compendium of views from Judean thought leaders of Judaism other than the Torah.\n\nThe Sanhedrin is traditionally viewed as the last institution that commanded universal Jewish authority among the Jewish people in the long chain of tradition from Moses until the present day. Since its dissolution in 358 CE by imperial decree, there have been several attempts to re-establish this body either as a self-governing body, or as a puppet of a sovereign government.\n\nThere are records of what may have been of attempts to reform the Sanhedrin in Arabia, in Jerusalem under the Caliph 'Umar, and in Babylon (Iraq), but none of these attempts were given any attention by Rabbinic authorities and little information is available about them.\n\nThe \"Grand Sanhedrin\" was a Jewish high court convened by Napoleon I to give legal sanction to the principles expressed by the Assembly of Notables in answer to the twelve questions submitted to it by the government (see \"Jew. Encyc. v. 468, s.v. France\").\n\nOn October 6, 1806, the Assembly of Notables issued a proclamation to all the Jewish communities of Europe, inviting them to send delegates to the Sanhedrin, to convene on October 20. This proclamation, written in Hebrew, French, German, and Italian, speaks in extravagant terms of the importance of this revived institution and of the greatness of its imperial protector. While the action of Napoleon aroused in many Jews of Germany the hope that, influenced by it, their governments also would grant them the rights of citizenship, others looked upon it as a political contrivance. When in the war against Prussia (1806–07) the emperor invaded Poland and the Jews rendered great services to his army, he remarked, laughing, \"The sanhedrin is at least useful to me.\" David Friedländer and his friends in Berlin described it as a spectacle that Napoleon offered to the Parisians.\n\nSince the dissolution of the Sanhedrin in 358 CE, there has been no universally recognized authority within Halakha. Maimonides (1135–1204) was one of the greatest scholars of the Middle Ages, and is arguably one of the most widely accepted scholars among the Jewish people since the closing of the Talmud in 500. Influenced by the rationalist school of thought and generally showing a preference for a natural (as opposed to miraculous) redemption for the Jewish people, Maimonides proposed a rationalist solution for achieving the goal of re-establishing the highest court in Jewish tradition and reinvesting it with the same authority it had in former years. There have been several attempts to implement Maimonides' recommendations, the latest being in modern times.\n\nThere have been rabbinical attempts to renew Semicha and re-establish a Sanhedrin by Rabbi Jacob Berab in 1538, Rabbi Yisroel Shklover in 1830, Rabbi Aharon Mendel haCohen in 1901, Rabbi Zvi Kovsker in 1940 and Rabbi Yehuda Leib Maimon in 1949.\n\nIn October 2004 (Tishrei 5765), a group of rabbis representing varied Orthodox communities in Israel undertook a ceremony in Tiberias, where the original Sanhedrin was disbanded, in which it claimed to re-establish the body according to the proposal of Maimonides and the Jewish legal rulings of Rabbi Yosef Karo. The controversial attempt has been subject to debate within different Jewish communities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "638664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=638664", "title": "Strasserism", "text": "Strasserism\n\nStrasserism ( or \"Straßerismus\") is a strand of Nazism that calls for a more radical, mass-action and worker-based form of Nazism—hostile to Jews not from a racial, ethnic, cultural or religious perspective, but from an anti-capitalist basis—to achieve a national rebirth. It derives its name from Gregor and Otto Strasser, the two Nazi brothers initially associated with this position. \n\nOpposed on strategic views to Adolf Hitler, Otto Strasser was expelled from the Nazi Party in 1930 and went into exile in Czechoslovakia while Gregor Strasser was murdered in Germany on 30 June 1934 during the Night of the Long Knives. Strasserism remains an active position within strands of neo-Nazism.\n\nGregor Strasser (1892–1934) began his career in ultranationalist politics by joining the \"Freikorps\" after serving in World War I. Strasser was involved in the Kapp Putsch and formed his own \"völkischer Wehrverband\" (\"popular defense union\") which he merged into the NSDAP in 1921. Initially a loyal supporter of Adolf Hitler, he took part in the Beer Hall Putsch and held a number of high positions in the Nazi Party. However, Strasser soon became a strong advocate of the socialist wing of the party, arguing that the national revolution should also include strong action to tackle poverty and should seek to build working class support. After Hitler's rise to power, Ernst Röhm, who headed the \"Sturmabteilung\" (SA), then the most important paramilitary wing of the Nazi Party, called for a second revolution aimed at removing the elites from control. This was opposed by the conservative movement as well as by some Nazis who preferred an ordered authoritarian regime to the radical and disruptive program proposed by the party's left-wing.\n\nOtto Strasser (1897–1974) had also been a member of the \"Freikorps\", but he joined the Social Democratic Party and fought against the Kapp Putsch. Strasser joined the Nazi Party in 1925, but he nonetheless retained his ideas about the importance of socialism. Considered more of a radical than his brother, Strasser was expelled by the Nazi Party in 1930 and set up his own dissident group, the Black Front, which called for a specifically German nationalist form of socialist revolution. Strasser fled Germany in 1933 to live firstly in Czechoslovakia and then Canada before returning to West Germany in later life, all the while writing prolifically about Hitler and what he saw as his betrayal of national socialist ideals.\n\nThe name Strasserism came to be applied to the form of Nazism that developed around the Strasser brothers. Although they had been involved in the creation of the National Socialist Program of 1920, both called on the party to commit to \"breaking the shackles of finance capital\". This opposition to Jewish finance capitalism, which they contrasted to \"productive capitalism”, was shared by Hitler himself, who borrowed it from Gottfried Feder.\n\nThis populist and antisemitic form of anti-capitalism was further developed in 1925 when Otto Strasser published the \"Nationalsozialistische Briefe\", which discussed notions of class conflict, wealth redistribution and a possible alliance with the Soviet Union. His 1930 follow-up \"Ministersessel oder Revolution\" (\"Cabinet Seat or Revolution\") went further by attacking Hitler's betrayal of the socialist aspect of Nazism as well as criticizing the notion of the \"Führerprinzip\". Whilst Gregor Strasser echoed many of the calls of his brother, his influence on the ideology is less, owing to his remaining in the Nazi Party longer and to his early death. Meanwhile, Otto Strasser continued to expand his argument, calling for the break-up of large estates and the development of something akin to a guild system and the related establishment of a \"Reich\" cooperative chamber to take a leading role in economic planning.\n\nStrasserism therefore became a distinct strand of Nazism that whilst holding on to previous Nazi ideals such as palingenetic ultranationalism and antisemitism, added a strong critique of capitalism and framed this in the demand for a more socialist-based approach to economics.\n\nHowever, it is disputed whether Strasserism was a distinct form of Nazism. According to historian Ian Kershaw, \"the leaders of the SA [which included Gregor Strasser] did not have another vision of the future of Germany or another politic to propose\". The Strasserites advocated the radicalization of the Nazi regime and the toppling of the German elites, calling Hitler's rise to power a half-revolution which needed to be completed.\n\nDuring the 1970s, the ideas of Strasserism began to be referred to more in European far-right groups as younger members with no ties to Hitler and a stronger sense of anti-capitalism came to the fore. Strasserite thought in Germany began to emerge as a tendency within the National Democratic Party (NPD) during the late 1960s. These Strasserites played a leading role in securing the removal of Adolf von Thadden from the leadership and after his departure the party became stronger in condemning Hitler for what it saw as his move away from socialism in order to court business and army leaders.\n\nAlthough initially adopted by the NPD, Strasserism soon became associated with more peripheral extremist figures, notably Michael Kühnen who produced a 1982 pamphlet \"Farewell to Hitler\", which included a strong endorsement of the idea. The People's Socialist Movement of Germany/Labour Party (a minor extremist movement that was outlawed in 1982) adopted the policy while its successor movement, the Nationalist Front, did likewise, with its ten-point programme calling for an \"anti-materialist cultural revolution\" and an \"anti-capitalist social revolution\" to underline its support for the idea. The Free German Workers' Party also moved towards these ideas under the leadership of Friedhelm Busse in the late 1980s. \n\nThe flag of the Strasserite movement Black Front and its symbol a crossed hammer and a sword has been used by German and other European neo-Nazis abroad as a substitute for the more infamous Nazi flag which is banned in some countries such as Germany.\n\nStrasserism emerged in the United Kingdom in the early 1970s and centred on the National Front (NF) publication \"Britain First\", the main writers of which were David McCalden, Richard Lawson and Denis Pirie. Opposing the leadership of John Tyndall, they formed an alliance with John Kingsley Read and ultimately followed him into the National Party (NP). The NP called for British workers to seize the right to work and offered a fairly Strasserite economic policy. Nonetheless, the NP failed to last for very long. Due in part to Read's lack of enthusiasm for Strasserism, the main exponents of the idea drifted away.\n\nThe idea was reintroduced to the NF by Andrew Brons in the early 1980s when he decided to make the party's ideology clearer. However, Strasserism was soon to become the province of the radicals in the Official National Front, with Richard Lawson brought in a behind-the-scenes role to help direct policy. This Political Soldier wing ultimately opted for the indigenous alternative of distributism, but their strong anti-capitalist rhetoric as well as that of their International Third Position successor demonstrated influences from Strasserism. From this background, Troy Southgate emerged, whose own ideology and those of related groups such as the English Nationalist Movement and National Revolutionary Faction were influenced by Strasserism. He has also described himself as a post-Strasserite.\n\nThird Position groups, whose inspiration is generally more Italian in derivation, have often looked to Strasserism, owing to their strong opposition to capitalism. This was noted in France, where the student group \"Groupe Union Défense\" and the more recent \"Renouveau français\" both extolled Strasserite economic platforms.\n\nAttempts to reinterpret Nazism as having a left-wing base have also been heavily influenced by this school of thought, notably through the work of Povl Riis-Knudsen, who produced the Strasser-influenced work \"National Socialism: A Left-Wing Movement\" in 1984.\n\nIn the United States, Tom Metzger also flirted with Strasserism, having been influenced by Kühnen's pamphlet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49494240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49494240", "title": "There Ain't No Black in the Union Jack", "text": "There Ain't No Black in the Union Jack\n\nThere Ain't no Black in the Union Jack is a 1987 non-fiction book written by Paul Gilroy.\n\nGilroy examines the racial politics of the United Kingdom. In particular, he discusses anti-black racism in the United Kingdom. This work of Gilroy's remains quite controversial to many for his views on racial politics in the United Kingdom and for his views on race and ethnicity.\n\n"}
{"id": "5449973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5449973", "title": "TransAfrica", "text": "TransAfrica\n\nTransAfrica (formerly TransAfrica Forum) is an advocacy organization in Washington, D.C. that seeks to influence the foreign policy of the United States concerning African and Caribbean countries and all African diaspora groups. They are a research, education, and advocacy center for activism focusing on social, economic and political conditions in Africa, the Caribbean, and Latin America and other parts of the African Diaspora. They are the largest and oldest social justice organization in the United States that focuses on the African world. They have served as a major research, educational, and organizing institution for the African and African Descendant communities and the U.S. public in general.\n\nTransAfrica Forum is a research, education, and advocacy center dedicated to global justice for the African World.\n\nAccording to TransAfrica, it envisions a world where Africans and people of African descent are self-reliant, socially and economically prosperous, and have equal access to a more just international system that strengthens independence and democracy.\n\nTransAfrica is an educational and organizing center that encourages human interest viewpoints in the U.S. foreign policy arena and advocates for justice for the people of Africa and the African Diaspora. TransAfrica creates solidarity between Americans and communities most affected by U.S. policies throughout the world. TransAfrica supports human rights, gender equity, democracy, and sustainable economic and environmental development.\n\nTransAfrica advocates for more just foreign policy through the engagement of African Americans and policymakers.\n\nBy connecting people and policymakers to those most affected by U.S. foreign policy, and by encouraging Afro-descendants to be civically active, TransAfrica works to create a more just foreign policy that reflects the values of African Americans, especially respect for human rights.\n\nThe Black Forum on Foreign Affairs was formed in 1975, and served as the precursor to TransAfrica. TransAfrica Forum was founded on July 1, 1977, after being conceived a year earlier at a Black Leadership Conference convened by the Congressional Black Caucus in September, 1976. A committee consisting of Randall Robinson, Herschelle Challenor, and Willard Johnson are credited for formulating an organizational design and launch. Robinson became the organization's first Director. It began to launch a series of legislative campaigns, strategic media outreach and activism that increase public awareness of apartheid in South Africa and made a contribution to the global anti-apartheid solidarity movement. It is credited for its role in the anti-apartheid struggle through its activism. Through the \"Free South Africa Movement\", they initiated a letter-writing campaigns, hunger strikes, and protest marches to protest against apartheid and to compel the U.S. government to act against apartheid.\n\nNamed after former board member Arthur Ashe, the Arthur R. Ashe Foreign Policy Library is the only library in the U.S. dedicated to sensitizing Americans about African, Caribbean, and Latin-American issues. It is an important resource for policy analysts, scholars and the public.\n\nTransAfrica continues to work on similar social, political, and economic justice issues throughout the African world. The current priority areas in Africa include Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Somalia, South Africa, South Sudan, Sudan, South Africa and Uganda. In the Americas, this includes Cuba, Haiti, Venezuela and the United States.\n\nTransAfrica continues to sponsor public seminars, community awareness campaigns and training programs to sensitize the public and policy makers. This includes the Cabral/Truth Circles, film series, lecture series, book club and a writer's forum for authors to discuss their work. They co-sponsor the annual New African Film Festival in Washington, D.C.\n\nTransAfrica was a founding member of the Free South Africa Movement. It is a grassroots organization that laid the foundation for the taking the anti-apartheid movement in the U.S. to mainstream politics and lobbying for change. They were at the forefront of the sensitizing U.S. policy makers, students and the public about the anti-apartheid efforts in a strategic move. On November 21, 1984, a day before Thanksgiving, Randall Robinson, Congressman Walter Fauntroy and Mary Frances Berry were arrested for a sit-in staged at the South African embassy. This brought the Anti-South African movements to the national stage. It sparked the formation of the Free South Africa Movement in the U.S. which TransAfrica was a founding member of. Within a few days, there were more sit-ins and demonstrations against South Africa were held nationally. More than 3,000 people were arrested by 1985. TransAfrica exposed the secret strategy meetings between the South African government and the Ronald Reagan administration. TransAfrica worked with the Congressional Black Caucus in formulating legislative strategy for the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986. In May 2012, the organisation received the Mandela Freedom Statuette for \"exceptional contribution to the struggle for the attainment for non-racial, free and democratic South Africa\" from the South Africa government.\n\nTransAfrica is run by a Board of Directors, administered by staff and supported by members. The current chairman of the board is Danny Glover. Past board members have included activists Arthur Ashe, Chuck D and Harry Belafonte. The former Director is Nicole Lee. Past Directors have included Bill Fletcher Jr.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51369233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51369233", "title": "Umur-u Hafiye", "text": "Umur-u Hafiye\n\nThe Umur-u Hafiye was a domestic intelligence organisation in Ottoman Empire, which was active during Abdulhamid II era. The organisation was officially working under the rule of Zaptiye Teşkilatı, but in practice it was linked directly to the Abdulhamid II.\n\nThe consistence of the organisation was formed from three sections. The first section's mission was searching, finding and collecting the information about anti governmental organisations and individuals. The second section's mission was editing and reporting the information. The third section's mission was to inform Abdulhamid II.\n\n"}
