{"id": "8785767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8785767", "title": "2008 in music", "text": "2008 in music\n\nThis topic covers notable events and articles related to 2008 in music.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See \"\n\n\n\"See \"\n\n\n\nThe best-selling records in 2008 according to IFPI:\n\nThe best-selling albums in the United States:\n\nSingles which have ranked within Top 10 within the Billboard Hot 100 Hits (excludes those that were #1 in the UK) \n\nUK Official Top 75 No. 1 Hits\n\nAustralia Official Top 50 No. 1 Hits\n\nAustralia Official Top 50 Hits – Singles which have ranked within Top 20\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17328652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17328652", "title": "A Golden Anniversary Bibliography of Edgar Rice Burroughs", "text": "A Golden Anniversary Bibliography of Edgar Rice Burroughs\n\nA Golden Anniversary Bibliography of Edgar Rice Burroughs is a bibliography of the works of Edgar Rice Burroughs by Henry Hardy Heins. It was first published by Donald M. Grant, Publisher, Inc. in an edition of 1,000 copies. The book was revised from a mimeograph edition that Heins had produced in September 1962. The book lists books, stories, and articles by Burroughs. It also contains information about Burroughs and a section on magazine illustrations and publisher's announcements.\n\n"}
{"id": "27158894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27158894", "title": "Addiction", "text": "Addiction\n\nAddiction is a brain disorder characterized by compulsive engagement in rewarding stimuli despite adverse consequences. Despite the involvement of a number of psychosocial factors, a biological process – one which is induced by repeated exposure to an addictive stimulus – is the core pathology that drives the development and maintenance of an addiction. The two properties that characterize all addictive stimuli are that they are reinforcing (i.e., they increase the likelihood that a person will seek repeated exposure to them) and intrinsically rewarding (i.e., they are perceived as being inherently positive, desirable, and pleasurable).\n\nAddiction is a disorder of the brain's reward system which arises through transcriptional and epigenetic mechanisms and occurs over time from chronically high levels of exposure to an addictive stimulus (e.g., eating food, the use of cocaine, engagement in sexual activity, participation in high-thrill cultural activities such as gambling, etc.). ΔFosB, a gene transcription factor, is a critical component and common factor in the development of virtually all forms of behavioral and drug addictions. Two decades of research into ΔFosB's role in addiction have demonstrated that addiction arises, and the associated compulsive behavior intensifies or attenuates, along with the overexpression of ΔFosB in the D1-type medium spiny neurons of the nucleus accumbens. Due to the causal relationship between ΔFosB expression and addictions, it is used preclinically as an addiction biomarker. ΔFosB expression in these neurons directly and positively regulates drug self-administration and reward sensitization through positive reinforcement, while decreasing sensitivity to aversion.\n\nAddiction exacts an \"astoundingly high financial and human toll\" on individuals and society as a whole. In the United States, the total economic cost to society is greater than that of all types of diabetes and all cancers combined. These costs arise from the direct adverse effects of drugs and associated healthcare costs (e.g., emergency medical services and outpatient and inpatient care), long-term complications (e.g., lung cancer from smoking tobacco products, liver cirrhosis and dementia from chronic alcohol consumption, and meth mouth from methamphetamine use), the loss of productivity and associated welfare costs, fatal and non-fatal accidents (e.g., traffic collisions), suicides, homicides, and incarceration, among others. Classic hallmarks of addiction include impaired control over substances or behavior, preoccupation with substance or behavior, and continued use despite consequences. Habits and patterns associated with addiction are typically characterized by immediate gratification (short-term reward), coupled with delayed deleterious effects (long-term costs).\n\nExamples of drug and behavioral addictions include alcoholism, amphetamine addiction, cocaine addiction, nicotine addiction, opioid addiction, food addiction, gambling addiction, and sexual addiction. The only behavioral addiction recognized by the DSM-5 and the ICD-10 is gambling addiction. The term \"addiction\" is misused frequently to refer to other compulsive behaviors or disorders, particularly \"dependence\", in news media. An important distinction between drug addiction and dependence is that drug dependence is a disorder in which cessation of drug use results in an unpleasant state of withdrawal, which can lead to further drug use. Addiction is the compulsive use of a substance or performance of a behavior that is independent of withdrawal. Addiction can occur in the absence of dependence, and dependence can occur in the absence of addiction, although the two often occur together.\n\nCognitive control and stimulus control, which is associated with operant and classical conditioning, represent opposite processes (i.e., internal vs external or environmental, respectively) that compete over the control of an individual's elicited behaviors. Cognitive control, and particularly inhibitory control over behavior, is impaired in both addiction and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Stimulus-driven behavioral responses (i.e., stimulus control) that are associated with a particular rewarding stimulus tend to dominate one's behavior in an addiction.\n\nThe term \"behavioral addiction\" refers to a compulsion to engage in a natural reward – which is a behavior that is inherently rewarding (i.e., desirable or appealing) – despite adverse consequences. Preclinical evidence has demonstrated that marked increases in the expression of ΔFosB through repetitive and excessive exposure to a natural reward induces the same behavioral effects and neuroplasticity as occurs in a drug addiction.\n\nReviews of both clinical research in humans and preclinical studies involving ΔFosB have identified compulsive sexual activity – specifically, any form of sexual intercourse – as an addiction (i.e., sexual addiction). Moreover, reward cross-sensitization between amphetamine and sexual activity, meaning that exposure to one increases the desire for both, has been shown to occur preclinically and clinically as a dopamine dysregulation syndrome; ΔFosB expression is required for this cross-sensitization effect, which intensifies with the level of ΔFosB expression.\n\nReviews of preclinical studies indicate that long-term frequent and excessive consumption of high fat or sugar foods can produce an addiction (food addiction).\n\nGambling is a natural reward which is associated with compulsive behavior and for which clinical diagnostic manuals, namely the DSM-5, have identified diagnostic criteria for an \"addiction\". In order for a person's gambling behavior to meet criteria of an addiction, it shows certain characteristics, such as mood modification, compulsivity, and withdrawal. There is evidence from functional neuroimaging that gambling activates the reward system and the mesolimbic pathway in particular. Similarly, shopping and playing video games are associated with compulsive behaviors in humans and have also been shown to activate the mesolimbic pathway and other parts of the reward system. Based upon this evidence, gambling addiction, video game addiction, and shopping addiction are classified accordingly.\n\nThere are a number of genetic and environmental risk factors for developing an addiction that vary across the population. Genetic and environmental risk factors each account for roughly half of an individual's risk for developing an addiction; the contribution from epigenetic risk factors to the total risk is unknown. Even in individuals with a relatively low genetic risk, exposure to sufficiently high doses of an addictive drug for a long period of time (e.g., weeks–months) can result in an addiction.\n\nIt has long been established that genetic factors along with environmental (e.g., psychosocial) factors are significant contributors to addiction vulnerability. Epidemiological studies estimate that genetic factors account for 40–60% of the risk factors for alcoholism. Similar rates of heritability for other types of drug addiction have been indicated by other studies. Knestler hypothesized in 1964 that a gene or group of genes might contribute to predisposition to addiction in several ways. For example, altered levels of a normal protein due to environmental factors could then change the structure or functioning of specific brain neurons during development. These altered brain neurons could change the susceptibility of an individual to an initial drug use experience. In support of this hypothesis, animal studies have shown that environmental factors such as stress can affect an animal's genotype.\n\nOverall, the data implicating specific genes in the development of drug addiction is mixed for most genes. One reason for this may be that the case is due to a focus of current research on common variants. Many addiction studies focus on common variants with an allele frequency of greater than 5% in the general population; however, when associated with disease, these only confer a small amount of additional risk with an odds ratio of 1.1–1.3 percent. On the other hand, the rare variant hypothesis states that genes with low frequencies in the population (<1%) confer much greater additional risk in the development of the disease.\n\nGenome-wide association studies (GWAS) are used to examine genetic associations with dependence, addiction, and drug use. These studies employ an unbiased approach to finding genetic associations with specific phenotypes and give equal weight to all regions of DNA, including those with no ostensible relationship to drug metabolism or response. These studies rarely identify genes from proteins previously described via animal knockout models and candidate gene analysis. Instead, large percentages of genes involved in processes such as cell adhesion are commonly identified. This is not to say that previous findings, or the GWAS findings, are erroneous. The important effects of endophenotypes are typically not capable of being captured by these methods. Furthermore, genes identified in GWAS for drug addiction may be involved either in adjusting brain behavior prior to drug experiences, subsequent to them, or both.\nA study that highlights the significant role genetics play in addiction is the twin studies. Twins have similar and sometimes identical genetics. Analyzing these genes in relation to genetics has helped geneticists understand how much of a role genes play in addiction. Studies performed on twins found that rarely did only one twin have an addiction. In most cases where at least one twin suffered from an addiction, both did, and often to the same substance. Cross addiction is when already has a predisposed addiction and then starts to become addicted to something different. If one family member has a history of addiction, the chances of a relative or close family developing those same habits are much higher than one who has not been introduced to addiction at a young age. In a recent study done by the National Institute on Drug Abuse, from 2002 to 2017, overdose deaths have almost tripled amongst male and females. In 2017, 72,306 overdose deaths happened in the U.S. that were reported.\n\nEnvironmental risk factors for addiction are the experiences of an individual during their lifetime that interact with the individual's genetic composition to increase or decrease his or her vulnerability to addiction. A number of different environmental factors have been implicated as risk factors for addiction, including various psychosocial stressors; however, an individual's exposure to an addictive drug is by far the most significant environmental risk factor for addiction. The National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) cites lack of parental supervision, the prevalence of peer substance use, drug availability, and poverty as risk factors for substance use among children and adolescents.\n\nAdverse childhood experiences (ACEs) are various forms of maltreatment and household dysfunction experienced in childhood. The Adverse Childhood Experiences Study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has shown a strong dose–response relationship between ACEs and numerous health, social, and behavioral problems throughout a person's lifespan, including those associated with substance abuse. Children's neurological development can be permanently disrupted when they are chronically exposed to stressful events such as physical, emotional, or sexual abuse, physical or emotional neglect, witnessing violence in the household, or a parent being incarcerated or suffering from a mental illness. As a result, the child's cognitive functioning or ability to cope with negative or disruptive emotions may be impaired. Over time, the child may adopt substance use as a coping mechanism, particularly during adolescence. A study of 900 court cases involving children who experienced abuse found that a vast amount of them went on to suffer from some form of addiction in their adolescence or adult life. This pathway towards addiction that is opened through stressful experiences during childhood can be avoided by a change in environmental factors throughout an individual's life and opportunities of professional help. If one has friends or peers who engage in drug use favorably, the chances of them developing an addiction increases. Family conflict and home management is also a cause for one to become engaged in drug or alcohol use.\n\nAdolescence represents a period of unique vulnerability for developing an addiction. In adolescence, the incentive–rewards systems in the brain mature well before the cognitive control center. This consequentially grants the incentive–rewards systems a disproportionate amount of power in the behavioral decision-making process. Therefore, adolescents are increasingly likely to act on their impulses and engage in risky, potentially addicting behavior before considering the consequences. Not only are adolescents more likely to initiate and maintain drug use, but once addicted they are more resistant to treatment and more liable to relapse.\n\nStatistics have shown that those who start to drink alcohol at a younger age are more likely to become dependent later on. About 33% of the population tasted their first alcohol between the ages of 15 and 17, while 18% experienced it prior to this. As for alcohol abuse or dependence, the numbers start off high with those who first drank before they were 12 and then drop off after that. For example, 16% of alcoholics began drinking prior to turning 12 years old, while only 9% first touched alcohol between 15 and 17. This percentage is even lower, at 2.6%, for those who first started the habit after they were 21.\n\nMost individuals are exposed to and use addictive drugs for the first time during their teenage years. In the United States, there were just over 2.8 million new users of illicit drugs in 2013 (~7,800 new users per day); among them, 54.1% were under 18 years of age. In 2011, there were approximately 20.6 million people in the United States over the age of 12 with an addiction. Over 90% of those with an addiction began drinking, smoking or using illicit drugs before the age of 18.\n\nIndividuals with comorbid (i.e., co-occurring) mental health disorders such as depression, anxiety, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) or post-traumatic stress disorder are more likely to develop substance use disorders. The cites early aggressive behavior as a risk factor for substance use. A study by the National Bureau of Economic Research found that there is a \"definite connection between mental illness and the use of addictive substances\" and a majority of mental health patients participate in the use of these substances: 38% alcohol, 44% cocaine, and 40% cigarettes.\n\nEpigenetic genes and their products (e.g., proteins) are the key components through which environmental influences can affect the genes of an individual; they also serve as the mechanism responsible for transgenerational epigenetic inheritance, a phenomenon in which environmental influences on the genes of a parent can affect the associated traits and behavioral phenotypes of their offspring (e.g., behavioral responses to environmental stimuli). In addiction, epigenetic mechanisms play a central role in the pathophysiology of the disease; it has been noted that some of the alterations to the epigenome which arise through chronic exposure to addictive stimuli during an addiction can be transmitted across generations, in turn affecting the behavior of one's children (e.g., the child's behavioral responses to addictive drugs and natural rewards).\n\nThe general classes of epigenetic alterations that have been implicated in transgenerational epigenetic inheritance include DNA methylation, histone modifications, and downregulation or upregulation of microRNAs. With respect to addiction, more research is needed to determine the specific heritable epigenetic alterations that arise from various forms of addiction in humans and the corresponding behavioral phenotypes from these epigenetic alterations that occur in human offspring. Based upon preclinical evidence from animal research, certain addiction-induced epigenetic alterations in rats can be transmitted from parent to offspring and produce behavioral phenotypes that decrease the offspring's risk of developing an addiction. More generally, the heritable behavioral phenotypes that are derived from addiction-induced epigenetic alterations and transmitted from parent to offspring may serve to either increase or decrease the offspring's risk of developing an addiction.\n\nChronic addictive drug use causes alterations in gene expression in the mesocorticolimbic projection. The most important transcription factors that produce these alterations are ΔFosB, cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB). ΔFosB is the most significant biomolecular mechanism in addiction because the overexpression of ΔFosB in the D1-type medium spiny neurons in the nucleus accumbens is necessary and sufficient for many of the neural adaptations and behavioral effects (e.g., expression-dependent increases in drug self-administration and reward sensitization) seen in drug addiction. ΔFosB expression in nucleus accumbens D1-type medium spiny neurons directly and positively regulates drug self-administration and reward sensitization through positive reinforcement while decreasing sensitivity to aversion. ΔFosB has been implicated in mediating addictions to many different drugs and drug classes, including alcohol, amphetamine and other substituted amphetamines, cannabinoids, cocaine, methylphenidate, nicotine, opiates, phenylcyclidine, and propofol, among others. ΔJunD, a transcription factor, and G9a, a histone methyltransferase, both oppose the function of ΔFosB and inhibit increases in its expression. Increases in nucleus accumbens ΔJunD expression (via viral vector-mediated gene transfer) or G9a expression (via pharmacological means) reduces, or with a large increase can even block, many of the neural and behavioral alterations that result from chronic high-dose use of addictive drugs (i.e., the alterations mediated by ΔFosB).\n\nΔFosB also plays an important role in regulating behavioral responses to natural rewards, such as palatable food, sex, and exercise. Natural rewards, like drugs of abuse, induce gene expression of ΔFosB in the nucleus accumbens, and chronic acquisition of these rewards can result in a similar pathological addictive state through ΔFosB overexpression. Consequently, ΔFosB is the key transcription factor involved in addictions to natural rewards (i.e., behavioral addictions) as well; in particular, ΔFosB in the nucleus accumbens is critical for the reinforcing effects of sexual reward. Research on the interaction between natural and drug rewards suggests that dopaminergic psychostimulants (e.g., amphetamine) and sexual behavior act on similar biomolecular mechanisms to induce ΔFosB in the nucleus accumbens and possess bidirectional cross-sensitization effects that are mediated through ΔFosB. This phenomenon is notable since, in humans, a dopamine dysregulation syndrome, characterized by drug-induced compulsive engagement in natural rewards (specifically, sexual activity, shopping, and gambling), has also been observed in some individuals taking dopaminergic medications.\n\nΔFosB inhibitors (drugs or treatments that oppose its action) may be an effective treatment for addiction and addictive disorders.\n\nThe release of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens plays a role in the reinforcing qualities of many forms of stimuli, including naturally reinforcing stimuli like palatable food and sex. Altered dopamine neurotransmission is frequently observed following the development of an addictive state. In humans and lab animals that have developed an addiction, alterations in dopamine or opioid neurotransmission in the nucleus accumbens and other parts of the striatum are evident. Studies have found that use of certain drugs (e.g., cocaine) affect cholinergic neurons that innervate the reward system, in turn affecting dopamine signaling in this region.\n\nUnderstanding the pathways in which drugs act and how drugs can alter those pathways is key when examining the biological basis of drug addiction. The reward pathway, known as the mesolimbic pathway, or its extension, the mesocorticolimbic pathway, is characterized by the interaction of several areas of the brain.\nOther brain structures that are involved in addiction include:\n\nDopamine is the primary neurotransmitter of the reward system in the brain. It plays a role in regulating movement, emotion, cognition, motivation, and feelings of pleasure. Natural rewards, like eating, as well as recreational drug use cause a release of dopamine, and are associated with the reinforcing nature of these stimuli. Nearly all addictive drugs, directly or indirectly, act upon the brain's reward system by heightening dopaminergic activity.\n\nExcessive intake of many types of addictive drugs results in repeated release of high amounts of dopamine, which in turn affects the reward pathway directly through heightened dopamine receptor activation. Prolonged and abnormally high levels of dopamine in the synaptic cleft can induce receptor downregulation in the neural pathway. Downregulation of mesolimbic dopamine receptors can result in a decrease in the sensitivity to natural reinforcers.\n\nDrug seeking behavior is induced by glutamatergic projections from the prefrontal cortex to the nucleus accumbens. This idea is supported with data from experiments showing that drug seeking behavior can be prevented following the inhibition of AMPA glutamate receptors and glutamate release in the nucleus accumbens.\n\nReward sensitization is a process that causes an increase in the amount of reward (specifically, incentive salience) that is assigned by the brain to a rewarding stimulus (e.g., a drug). In simple terms, when reward sensitization to a specific stimulus (e.g., a drug) occurs, an individual's \"wanting\" or desire for the stimulus itself and its associated cues increases. Reward sensitization normally occurs following chronically high levels of exposure to the stimulus. ΔFosB (DeltaFosB) expression in D1-type medium spiny neurons in the nucleus accumbens has been shown to directly and positively regulate reward sensitization involving drugs and natural rewards.\n\n\"Cue-induced wanting\" or \"cue-triggered wanting\", a form of craving that occurs in addiction, is responsible for the majority of compulsive behavior that addicts exhibit. During the development of an addiction, the repeated association of otherwise neutral and even non-rewarding stimuli with drug consumption triggers an associative learning process that causes these previously neutral stimuli to act as conditioned positive reinforcers of addictive drug use (i.e., these stimuli start to function as drug cues). As conditioned positive reinforcers of drug use, these previously neutral stimuli are assigned incentive salience (which manifests as a craving) – sometimes at pathologically high levels due to reward sensitization – which can transfer to the primary reinforcer (e.g., the use of an addictive drug) with which it was originally paired.\n\nResearch on the interaction between natural and drug rewards suggests that dopaminergic psychostimulants (e.g., amphetamine) and sexual behavior act on similar biomolecular mechanisms to induce ΔFosB in the nucleus accumbens and possess a bidirectional reward cross-sensitization effect that is mediated through ΔFosB. In contrast to ΔFosB's reward-sensitizing effect, CREB transcriptional activity decreases user's sensitivity to the rewarding effects of the substance. CREB transcription in the nucleus accumbens is implicated in psychological dependence and symptoms involving a lack of pleasure or motivation during drug withdrawal.\n\nThe set of proteins known as \"regulators of G protein signaling\" (RGS), particularly RGS4 and RGS9-2, have been implicated in modulating some forms of opioid sensitization, including reward sensitization.\nAltered epigenetic regulation of gene expression within the brain's reward system plays a significant and complex role in the development of drug addiction. Addictive drugs are associated with three types of epigenetic modifications within neurons. These are (1) histone modifications, (2) epigenetic methylation of DNA at CpG sites at (or adjacent to) particular genes, and (3) epigenetic downregulation or upregulation of microRNAs which have particular target genes. As an example, while hundreds of genes in the cells of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) exhibit histone modifications following drug exposure – particularly, altered acetylation and methylation states of histone residues – most other genes in the NAc cells do not show such changes.\n\nThe 5th edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) uses the term \"Substance Use Disorder\" to refer to a spectrum of use-related conditions. The DSM-5 eliminates the terms \"abuse\" and \"dependence\" from diagnostic categories, instead using the specifiers of \"mild\", \"moderate\" and \"severe\" to indicate the extent of disordered use. Specifiers are determined by the number of diagnostic criteria present in a given case. The manual has never actually used the term \"addiction\" clinically. Currently, only drug addictions and gambling addiction are listed in the . Past editions have used physical dependence and the associated withdrawal syndrome to identify an addictive state. Physical dependence occurs when the body has adjusted by incorporating the substance into its \"normal\" functioning – i.e., attains homeostasis – and therefore physical withdrawal symptoms occur upon cessation of use. Tolerance is the process by which the body continually adapts to the substance and requires increasingly larger amounts to achieve the original effects. Withdrawal refers to physical and psychological symptoms experienced when reducing or discontinuing a substance that the body has become dependent on. Symptoms of withdrawal generally include but are not limited to anxiety, irritability, intense cravings for the substance, nausea, hallucinations, headaches, cold sweats, and tremors.\n\nMedical researchers who actively study addiction have criticized the DSM classification of addiction for being flawed and involving arbitrary diagnostic criteria. Writing in 2013, the director of the United States National Institute of Mental Health discussed the invalidity of the DSM-5's classification of mental disorders:\n\nMost recently, though, the NIH acknowledged advances in identifying biomarkers, noting they outperform traditional phenomenological categories in identifying types of psychosis. As a diagnostic biomarker, ΔFosB expression could be used to diagnose an addiction in humans, but this would require a brain biopsy and therefore is not used in clinical practice.\n\nAccording to a review, \"in order to be effective, all pharmacological or biologically based treatments for addiction need to be integrated into other established forms of addiction rehabilitation, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, individual and group psychotherapy, behavior-modification strategies, twelve-step programs, and residential treatment facilities.\"\n\nA meta-analytic review on the efficacy of various behavioral therapies for treating drug and behavioral addictions found that cognitive behavioral therapy (e.g., relapse prevention and contingency management), motivational interviewing, and a community reinforcement approach were effective interventions with moderate effect sizes.\n\nClinical and preclinical evidence indicate that consistent aerobic exercise, especially endurance exercise (e.g., marathon running), actually prevents the development of certain drug addictions and is an effective adjunct treatment for drug addiction, and for psychostimulant addiction in particular. Consistent aerobic exercise magnitude-dependently (i.e., by duration and intensity) reduces drug addiction risk, which appears to occur through the reversal of drug induced addiction-related neuroplasticity. One review noted that exercise may prevent the development of drug addiction by altering ΔFosB or immunoreactivity in the striatum or other parts of the reward system. Aerobic exercise decreases drug self-administration, reduces the likelihood of relapse, and induces opposite effects on striatal dopamine receptor D (DRD2) signaling (increased DRD2 density) to those induced by addictions to several drug classes (decreased DRD2 density). Consequently, consistent aerobic exercise may lead to better treatment outcomes when used as an adjunct treatment for drug addiction.\n\nAlcohol, like opioids, can induce a severe state of physical dependence and produce withdrawal symptoms such as delirium tremens. Because of this, treatment for alcohol addiction usually involves a combined approach dealing with dependence and addiction simultaneously.\n\nPharmacological treatments for alcohol addiction include drugs like naltrexone (opioid antagonist), disulfiram, acamprosate, and topiramate. Rather than substituting for alcohol, these drugs are intended to affect the desire to drink, either by directly reducing cravings as with acamprosate and topiramate, or by producing unpleasant effects when alcohol is consumed, as with disulfiram. These drugs can be effective if treatment is maintained, but compliance can be an issue as alcoholic patients often forget to take their medication, or discontinue use because of excessive side effects. According to a Cochrane Collaboration review, the opioid antagonist naltrexone has been shown to be an effective treatment for alcoholism, with the effects lasting three to twelve months after the end of treatment.\n\n, there are no effective pharmacological interventions for cannabinoid addiction. A 2013 review on cannabinoid addiction noted that the development of CB1 receptor agonists that have reduced interaction with β-arrestin 2 signaling might be therapeutically useful.\n\nAnother area in which drug treatment has been widely used is in the treatment of nicotine addiction, which usually involves the use of nicotine replacement therapy, nicotinic receptor antagonists, or nicotinic receptor partial agonists. Examples of drugs that act on nicotinic receptors and have been used for treating nicotine addiction include antagonists like bupropion and the partial agonist varenicline.\n\nOpioids cause physical dependence, and treatment typically addresses both dependence and addiction.\n\nPhysical dependence is treated using replacement drugs such as suboxone or subutex (both containing the active ingredients buprenorphine) and methadone. Although these drugs perpetuate physical dependence, the goal of opiate maintenance is to provide a measure of control over both pain and cravings. Use of replacement drugs increases the addicted individual's ability to function normally and eliminates the negative consequences of obtaining controlled substances illicitly. Once a prescribed dosage is stabilized, treatment enters maintenance or tapering phases. In the United States, opiate replacement therapy is tightly regulated in methadone clinics and under the DATA 2000 legislation. In some countries, other opioid derivatives such as levomethadyl acetate, dihydrocodeine, dihydroetorphine and even heroin are used as substitute drugs for illegal street opiates, with different prescriptions being given depending on the needs of the individual patient. Baclofen has led to successful reductions of cravings for stimulants, alcohol, and opioids, and also alleviates alcohol withdrawal syndrome. Many patients have stated they \"became indifferent to alcohol\" or \"indifferent to cocaine\" overnight after starting baclofen therapy.\n\n, there is no effective pharmacotherapy for any form of psychostimulant addiction. Reviews from 2015 and 2016 indicated that TAAR1-selective agonists have significant therapeutic potential as a treatment for psychostimulant addictions; however, , the only compounds which are known to function as TAAR1-selective agonists are experimental drugs.\n\nResearch indicates that vaccines which utilize anti-drug monoclonal antibodies can mitigate drug-induced positive reinforcement by preventing the drug from moving across the blood–brain barrier; however, current vaccine-based therapies are only effective in a relatively small subset of individuals. , vaccine-based therapies are being tested in human clinical trials as a treatment for addiction and preventative measure against drug overdoses involving nicotine, cocaine, and methamphetamine.\n\nSince addiction involves abnormalities in glutamate and GABAergic neurotransmission, receptors associated with these neurotransmitters (e.g., AMPA receptors, NMDA receptors, and GABA receptors) are potential therapeutic targets for addictions. N-acetylcysteine, which affects metabotropic glutamate receptors and NMDA receptors, has shown some benefit in preclinical and clinical studies involving addictions to cocaine, heroin, and cannabinoids. It may also be useful as an adjunct therapy for addictions to amphetamine-type stimulants, but more clinical research is required.\n\nCurrent medical reviews of research involving lab animals have identified a drug class – class I histone deacetylase inhibitors – that indirectly inhibits the function and further increases in the expression of accumbal ΔFosB by inducing G9a expression in the nucleus accumbens after prolonged use. These reviews and subsequent preliminary evidence which used oral administration or intraperitoneal administration of the sodium salt of butyric acid or other class I HDAC inhibitors for an extended period indicate that these drugs have efficacy in reducing addictive behavior in lab animals that have developed addictions to ethanol, psychostimulants (i.e., amphetamine and cocaine), nicotine, and opiates; however, no clinical trials involving human addicts and any HDAC class I inhibitors have been conducted to test for treatment efficacy in humans or identify an optimal dosing regimen.\n\nGene therapy for addiction is an active area of research. One line of gene therapy research involves the use of viral vectors to increase the expression of dopamine D2 receptor proteins in the brain.\n\nDue to cultural variations, the proportion of individuals who develop a drug or behavioral addiction within a specified time period (i.e., the prevalence) varies over time, by country, and across national population demographics (e.g., by age group, socioeconomic status, etc.).\n\nThe prevalence of substance abuse disorder among Australians was reported at 5.1% in 2009.\n\nBased upon representative samples of the US youth population in 2011, the lifetime prevalence of addictions to alcohol and illicit drugs has been estimated to be approximately 8% and 2–3% respectively. Based upon representative samples of US adult population in 2011, the 12 month prevalence of alcohol and illicit drug addictions were estimated at roughly 12% and 2–3% respectively. The 12 month and lifetime prevalence of prescription drug addictions is currently unknown.\n\nAnother review listed estimates of lifetime prevalence rates for several behavioral addictions in the United States, including 1–2% for compulsive gambling, 5% for sexual addiction, 2.8% for food addiction, and 5–6% for compulsive shopping. A systematic review indicated that the time-invariant prevalence rate for sexual addiction and related compulsive sexual behavior (e.g., compulsive masturbation with or without pornography, compulsive cybersex, etc.) within the United States ranges from 3–6% of the population.\n\nAccording to a 2017 poll conducted by the Pew Research Center, almost half of US adults know a family member or close friend who has struggled with a drug addiction at some point in their life.\n\nPersonality theories of addiction are psychological models that associate personality traits or modes of thinking (i.e., affective states) with an individual's proclivity for developing an addiction. Models of addiction risk that have been proposed in psychology literature include an affect dysregulation model of positive and negative psychological affects, the reinforcement sensitivity theory model of impulsiveness and behavioral inhibition, and an impulsivity model of reward sensitization and impulsiveness.\n\nKyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) signal transduction pathways:\n"}
{"id": "9094947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9094947", "title": "Anglophone Cameroonian", "text": "Anglophone Cameroonian\n\nAnglophone Cameroonians are the people of various cultural backgrounds who hail from the English-speaking regions of Cameroon (Northwest and Southwest regions). These regions were formerly known as British Southern Cameroons, being part of the League of Nations mandate and United Nations Trust Territories.\n\nThe two English-speaking regions of Cameroon make up 17% of a population of 17 million (2005).\n\nThe Social Democratic Front, the largest opposition political party in Cameroon's parliament, is headed by an Anglophone. Separatist movements, notably the Southern Cameroons National Council (SCNC) and the Southern Cameroons Peoples Organization (SCAPO), call for the separation of the two English-speaking regions from French-speaking Cameroun in response to the dismantling in May 1972 of the federation formed in 1961 and subsequent marginalization of the Anglophone minority by the Francophone majority and its political leadership. As of March 2017, only one of the 36 government ministers who control departmental budgets is an Anglophone.\n\nIn November 2016, after a law was not translated, Anglophone lawyers began a protest in Bamenda against the central government for failing to uphold the constitutional guarantee of a bilingual nation. They were joined by teachers, protesting central government appointees with lackluster English skills, and ordinary citizens. In December, security forces dispersed protests and at least two protesters were killed and others injured.\n\nProtesters have also been accused of violence, however, the government's heavy-handed crackdown has revived calls for the restoration of Southern Cameroons' independence gained on the 1st of October 1961. Various protesters were arrested, including Nkongho Felix Agbor-Balla, the president of the Cameroon Anglophone Civil Society Consortium, and Fontem Neba, the group's secretary general. The Cameroon Anglophone Civil Society Consortium was declared illegal by the government on 17 January 2017 and \"any other related groups with similar objectives\" were prohibited.\" Amnesty International has called for the release of Agbor-Balla and Neba.\n\nThe central government shut down the internet in the Anglophone regions in mid January and was restored in April 2017, following a request for restoration by the United Nations. The NGO Internet Without Borders estimated that the blackout cost the Cameroonian economy almost €3 million (US$3.2 million).\n\n"}
{"id": "3832650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3832650", "title": "Arturo Warman", "text": "Arturo Warman\n\nArturo ('Jack') Warman Gryj (September 9, 1937–October 21, 2003) was a Mexican anthropologist, member of the cabinets of Carlos Salinas and Ernesto Zedillo, also an author of nine books, two of which have been translated to English. He also wrote multiple articles for the magazine \"\". He has also taught social epistemology at the Universidad de Chile\n\nWarman's parents, Elena Gryj and Isaac Warman, were Polish immigrants of Jewish origin who immigrated to Mexico through France in 1927. Warman studied elementary school at the Colegio Israelita de México and dropped after starting his secondary-level courses amidst a brief religious conflict with himself. He then enrolled in the Escuela Bancaria y Comercial because he wanted to be a banker, and graduated in 1955. He enrolled in the Mexican Navy and played american football until he experienced a bone fracture in his hand.\n\nIn 1956 he became interested in music and started recording his own songs, he enrolled in writing courses at the UNAM but dropped out after not being able to apply his knowledge to songwriting. In 1957 he continued his secondary-level studies graduated and enrolled in high school while he enrolled at the Sociedad Folklórica de México (then headed by Vicente T. Mendoza), he dropped off in 1960 and in 1961 he enrolled at the graduating with a master's degree in anthropology in 1968.\n\nHe was the director of the Instituto Nacional Indigenista (INI, National Institute for the Indigenous People), 1988–1991, Procuraduría Agraria (1991–1994) and Secretaría de la Reforma Agraria (SRA, Secretariat of the Agrarian Reform 1994–1999) which was the new name for the Secretaría de Agricultura y Recursos Hidráulicos (SARH, Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources) of the federal government of Mexico.\n\nAs director of the Procuraduría Agraria during the Carlos Salinas administration, he fought for the preservation of the \"ejidos\" while there was a discussion on disappearing them. He was part of a team that discussed and elaborated initiatives of Constitutional Reforms and the Agrarian Law. He also established guidelines for a delegation of the Procuraduría in each state, a residency for every 300 \"ejidos\" and rural communities and a representative to each 30 rural nuclear groups.\n\nUpon his death in 2003, the \"Cátedra Interinstitucional Arturo Warman\", an agreement in honor of the contribution of Warman to the culture of Mexico. It was signed by the following institutions:\n\nThe Cátedra will award those who it considers have contributed to the fields Warman dedicated his life to.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7646545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7646545", "title": "Bari language", "text": "Bari language\n\nBari is the Nilotic language of the Karo people, spoken over large areas of Central Equatoria state in South Sudan, across the northwest corner of Uganda, and into the Democratic Republic of Congo.\n\nBari is spoken by several distinct tribes: the Bari people themselves, the Pojulu, Kakwa, Nyangwara, Mundari, and Kuku. Each has its own dialect. The language is therefore sometimes called Karo or Kutuk ('mother tongue') rather than \"Bari\".\n\nDialects are:\n\nBari is a tone language. It has vowel harmony, subject–verb–object word order, and agglutinative verbal morphology with some suppletion. A very competent dictionary and grammar were published in the 1930s, but are very difficult to find today. More recently, a dissertation has been published on Bari tonal phonology, and another dissertation on Bari syntax is available.\n\nBari has a cross-height vowel-harmony system.\n\nThe Bari alphabet is used by the Bari proper and Kuku in South Sudan. There are four digraphs, 'B, 'D, 'Y and Ny, and the letter eng, Ŋ.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42036753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42036753", "title": "Bashkortostan literature", "text": "Bashkortostan literature\n\nBashkortostan, Bakshirian or Bakshir literature is the literature of the Republic of Bashkortostan in Russia.\n"}
{"id": "322091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322091", "title": "Beekeeping", "text": "Beekeeping\n\nBeekeeping (or apiculture) is the maintenance of bee colonies, commonly in man-made hives, by humans. Most such bees are honey bees in the genus \"Apis\", but other honey-producing bees such as \"Melipona\" stingless bees are also kept. A beekeeper (or apiarist) keeps bees in order to collect their honey and other products that the hive produces (including beeswax, propolis, flower pollen, bee pollen, and royal jelly), to pollinate crops, or to produce bees for sale to other beekeepers. A location where bees are kept is called an apiary or \"bee yard.\"\n\nDepictions of humans collecting honey from wild bees date to 10,000 years ago. Beekeeping in pottery vessels began about 9,000 years ago in North Africa. Domestication of bees is shown in Egyptian art from around 4,500 years ago. Simple hives and smoke were used and honey was stored in jars, some of which were found in the tombs of pharaohs such as Tutankhamun. It wasn't until the 18th century that European understanding of the colonies and biology of bees allowed the construction of the moveable comb hive so that honey could be harvested without destroying the entire colony.\n\nAt some point humans began to attempt to domesticate wild bees in artificial hives made from hollow logs, wooden boxes, pottery vessels, and woven straw baskets or \"skeps\". Traces of beeswax are found in pot sherds throughout the Middle East beginning about 7000 BCE.\n\nHoneybees were kept in Egypt from antiquity. On the walls of the sun temple of Nyuserre Ini from the Fifth Dynasty, before 2422 BCE, workers are depicted blowing smoke into hives as they are removing honeycombs. Inscriptions detailing the production of honey are found on the tomb of Pabasa from the Twenty-sixth Dynasty (c. 650 BCE), depicting pouring honey in jars and cylindrical hives. Sealed pots of honey were found in the grave goods of pharaohs such as Tutankhamun.\nIn prehistoric Greece (Crete and Mycenae), there existed a system of high-status apiculture, as can be concluded from the finds of hives, smoking pots, honey extractors and other beekeeping paraphernalia in Knossos. Beekeeping was considered a highly valued industry controlled by beekeeping overseers—owners of gold rings depicting apiculture scenes rather than religious ones as they have been reinterpreted recently, contra Sir Arthur Evans.\n\nArchaeological finds relating to beekeeping have been discovered at Rehov, a Bronze and Iron Age archaeological site in the Jordan Valley, Israel. Thirty intact hives, made of straw and unbaked clay, were discovered by archaeologist Amihai Mazar in the ruins of the city, dating from about 900 BCE. The hives were found in orderly rows, three high, in a manner that could have accommodated around 100 hives, held more than 1 million bees and had a potential annual yield of 500 kilograms of honey and 70 kilograms of beeswax, according to Mazar, and are evidence that an advanced honey industry existed in ancient Israel 3,000 years ago.\n\nIn ancient Greece, aspects of the lives of bees and beekeeping are discussed at length by Aristotle. Beekeeping was also documented by the Roman writers Virgil, Gaius Julius Hyginus, Varro, and Columella.\n\nBeekeeping has also been practiced in ancient China since antiquity. In the book \"Golden Rules of Business Success\" written by Fan Li (or Tao Zhu Gong) during the Spring and Autumn period there are sections describing the art of beekeeping, stressing the importance of the quality of the wooden box used and how this can affect the quality of the honey. The Chinese word for honey ( \"mì\", reconstructed Old Chinese pronunciation ) was borrowed from Indo-European proto-Tocharian language, the source of \"honey\", from proto-Tocharian *\"ḿət(ə)\" (where *\"ḿ\" is palatalized; cf. Tocharian B \"mit\"), cognate with English \"\".\n\nThe ancient Maya domesticated a separate species of stingless bee. The use of stingless bees is referred to as meliponiculture, named after bees of the tribe Meliponini—such as \"Melipona quadrifasciata\" in Brazil. This variation of bee keeping still occurs around the world today. For instance, in Australia, the stingless bee \"Tetragonula carbonaria\" is kept for production of their honey.\n\nThere are more than 20,000 species of wild bees. Many species are solitary (e.g., mason bees, leafcutter bees (Megachilidae), carpenter bees and other ground-nesting bees). Many others rear their young in burrows and small colonies (e.g., bumblebees and stingless bees). Some honey bees are wild e.g. the little honeybee (\"Apis florea\"), giant honeybee (\"Apis dorsata\") and rock bee (\"Apis laboriosa\"). Beekeeping, or apiculture, is concerned with the practical management of the social species of honey bees, which live in large colonies of up to 100,000 individuals. In Europe and America the species universally managed by beekeepers is the Western honey bee (\"Apis mellifera\"). This species has several sub-species or regional varieties, such as the Italian bee (\"Apis mellifera ligustica\"), European dark bee (\"Apis mellifera mellifera\"), and the Carniolan honey bee (\"Apis mellifera carnica\"). In the tropics, other species of social bees are managed for honey production, including the Asiatic honey bee (\"Apis cerana\").\n\nCollecting honey from wild bee colonies is one of the most ancient human activities and is still practiced by aboriginal societies in parts of Africa, Asia, Australia, and South America. In Africa, honeyguide birds have evolved a mutualist relationship with humans, leading them to hives and participating in the feast. This suggests honey harvesting by humans may be of great antiquity. Some of the earliest evidence of gathering honey from wild colonies is from rock paintings, dating to around Upper Paleolithic (13,000 BCE). Gathering honey from wild bee colonies is usually done by subduing the bees with smoke and breaking open the tree or rocks where the colony is located, often resulting in the physical destruction of the nest.\n\nIt was not until the 18th century that European natural philosophers undertook the scientific study of bee colonies and began to understand the complex and hidden world of bee biology. Preeminent among these scientific pioneers were Swammerdam, René Antoine Ferchault de Réaumur, Charles Bonnet, and François Huber. Swammerdam and Réaumur were among the first to use a microscope and dissection to understand the internal biology of honey bees. Réaumur was among the first to construct a glass walled observation hive to better observe activities within hives. He observed queens laying eggs in open cells, but still had no idea of how a queen was fertilized; nobody had ever witnessed the mating of a queen and drone and many theories held that queens were \"self-fertile,\" while others believed that a vapor or \"miasma\" emanating from the drones fertilized queens without direct physical contact. Huber was the first to prove by observation and experiment that queens are physically inseminated by drones outside the confines of hives, usually a great distance away.\n\nFollowing Réaumur's design, Huber built improved glass-walled observation hives and sectional hives that could be opened like the leaves of a book. This allowed inspecting individual wax combs and greatly improved direct observation of hive activity. Although he went blind before he was twenty, Huber employed a secretary, François Burnens, to make daily observations, conduct careful experiments, and keep accurate notes over more than twenty years. Huber confirmed that a hive consists of one queen who is the mother of all the female workers and male drones in the colony. He was also the first to confirm that mating with drones takes place outside of hives and that queens are inseminated by a number of successive matings with male drones, high in the air at a great distance from their hive. Together, he and Burnens dissected bees under the microscope and were among the first to describe the ovaries and spermatheca, or sperm store, of queens as well as the penis of male drones. Huber is universally regarded as \"the father of modern bee-science\" and his \"Nouvelles Observations sur Les Abeilles (or \"New Observations on Bees\") revealed all the basic scientific truths for the biology and ecology of honeybees.\n\nEarly forms of honey collecting entailed the destruction of the entire colony when the honey was harvested. The wild hive was crudely broken into, using smoke to suppress the bees, the honeycombs were torn out and smashed up — along with the eggs, larvae and honey they contained. The liquid honey from the destroyed brood nest was strained through a sieve or basket. This was destructive and unhygienic, but for hunter-gatherer societies this did not matter, since the honey was generally consumed immediately and there were always more wild colonies to exploit. But in settled societies the destruction of the bee colony meant the loss of a valuable resource; this drawback made beekeeping both inefficient and something of a \"stop and start\" activity. There could be no continuity of production and no possibility of selective breeding, since each bee colony was destroyed at harvest time, along with its precious queen.\n\nDuring the medieval period abbeys and monasteries were centers of beekeeping, since beeswax was highly prized for candles and fermented honey was used to make alcoholic mead in areas of Europe where vines would not grow. The 18th and 19th centuries saw successive stages of a revolution in beekeeping, which allowed the bees themselves to be preserved when taking the harvest.\n\nIntermediate stages in the transition from the old beekeeping to the new were recorded for example by Thomas Wildman in 1768/1770, who described advances over the destructive old skep-based beekeeping so that the bees no longer had to be killed to harvest the honey. Wildman for example fixed a parallel array of wooden bars across the top of a straw hive or skep (with a separate straw top to be fixed on later) \"so that there are in all seven bars of deal\" [in a hive] \"to which the bees fix their combs.\" He also described using such hives in a multi-storey configuration, foreshadowing the modern use of supers: he described adding (at a proper time) successive straw hives below, and eventually removing the ones above when free of brood and filled with honey, so that the bees could be separately preserved at the harvest for a following season. Wildman also described a further development, using hives with \"sliding frames\" for the bees to build their comb, foreshadowing more modern uses of movable-comb hives. Wildman's book acknowledged the advances in knowledge of bees previously made by Swammerdam, Maraldi, and de Réaumur—he included a lengthy translation of Réaumur's account of the natural history of bees—and he also described the initiatives of others in designing hives for the preservation of bee-life when taking the harvest, citing in particular reports from Brittany dating from the 1750s, due to Comte de la Bourdonnaye.\nHowever, the forerunners of the modern hives with movable frames that are mainly used today are considered the traditional basket top bar (movable comb) hives of Greece, known as “Greek beehives”. The oldest testimony on their use dates back to 1669 although it is probable that their use is more than 3000 years old.\nThe 19th century saw this revolution in beekeeping practice completed through the perfection of the movable comb hive by the American Lorenzo Lorraine Langstroth. Langstroth was the first person to make practical use of Huber's earlier discovery that there was a specific spatial measurement between the wax combs, later called \"the bee space\", which bees do not block with wax, but keep as a free passage. Having determined this bee space (between 5 and 8 mm, or 1/4 to 3/8\"), Langstroth then designed a series of wooden frames within a rectangular hive box, carefully maintaining the correct space between successive frames, and found that the bees would build parallel honeycombs in the box without bonding them to each other or to the hive walls. This enables the beekeeper to slide any frame out of the hive for inspection, without harming the bees or the comb, protecting the eggs, larvae and pupae contained within the cells. It also meant that combs containing honey could be gently removed and the honey extracted without destroying the comb. The emptied honey combs could then be returned to the bees intact for refilling. Langstroth's book, \"The Hive and Honey-bee\", published in 1853, described his rediscovery of the bee space and the development of his patent movable comb hive.\n\nThe invention and development of the movable-comb-hive fostered the growth of commercial honey production on a large scale in both Europe and the US (see also Beekeeping in the United States).\n\nLangstroth's design for movable comb hives was seized upon by apiarists and inventors on both sides of the Atlantic and a wide range of moveable comb hives were designed and perfected in England, France, Germany and the United States. Classic designs evolved in each country: Dadant hives and Langstroth hives are still dominant in the US; in France the De-Layens trough-hive became popular and in the UK a British National hive became standard as late as the 1930s although in Scotland the smaller Smith hive is still popular. In some Scandinavian countries and in Russia the traditional trough hive persisted until late in the 20th century and is still kept in some areas. However, the Langstroth and Dadant designs remain ubiquitous in the US and also in many parts of Europe, though Sweden, Denmark, Germany, France and Italy all have their own national hive designs. Regional variations of hive evolved to reflect the climate, floral productivity and the reproductive characteristics of the various subspecies of native honey bee in each bio-region.\n\nThe differences in hive dimensions are insignificant in comparison to the common factors in all these hives: they are all square or rectangular; they all use movable wooden frames; they all consist of a floor, brood-box, honey super, crown-board and roof. Hives have traditionally been constructed of cedar, pine, or cypress wood, but in recent years hives made from injection molded dense polystyrene have become increasingly important.\n\nHives also use queen excluders between the brood-box and honey supers to keep the queen from laying eggs in cells next to those containing honey intended for consumption. Also, with the advent in the 20th century of mite pests, hive floors are often replaced for part of (or the whole) year with a wire mesh and removable tray.\n\nThe 19th century produced an explosion of innovators and inventors who perfected the design and production of beehives, systems of management and husbandry, stock improvement by selective breeding, honey extraction and marketing. Preeminent among these innovators were:\n\nPetro Prokopovych, used frames with channels in the side of the woodwork; these were packed side by side in boxes that were stacked one on top of the other. The bees traveled from frame to frame and box to box via the channels. The channels were similar to the cut outs in the sides of modern wooden sections (1814).\n\nJan Dzierżon, was the father of modern apiology and apiculture. All modern beehives are descendants of his design.\n\nL. L. Langstroth, revered as the \"father of American apiculture\"; no other individual has influenced modern beekeeping practice more than Lorenzo Lorraine Langstroth. His classic book \"The Hive and Honey-bee\" was published in 1853.\n\nMoses Quinby, often termed \"the father of commercial beekeeping in the United States\", author of \"Mysteries of Bee-Keeping Explained\". He invented the Bee smoker in 1873.\n\nAmos Root, author of the \"A B C of Bee Culture\", which has been continuously revised and remains in print. Root pioneered the manufacture of hives and the distribution of bee-packages in the United States.\n\nA. J. Cook, author of \"The Bee-Keepers' Guide; or Manual of the Apiary\", 1876.\n\nDr. C.C. Miller was one of the first entrepreneurs to actually make a living from apiculture. By 1878 he made beekeeping his sole business activity. His book, \"Fifty Years Among the Bees\", remains a classic and his influence on bee management persists to this day.\n\nFranz Hruschka was an Italian military officer who made one crucial invention that catalyzed the commercial honey industry. In 1865 he invented a simple machine for extracting honey from the comb by means of centrifugal force. His original idea was simply to support combs in a metal framework and then spin them around within a container to collect honey as it was thrown out by centrifugal force. This meant that honeycombs could be returned to a hive undamaged but empty, saving the bees a vast amount of work, time, and materials. This single invention greatly improved the efficiency of honey harvesting and catalysed the modern honey industry.\n\nWalter T. Kelley was an American pioneer of modern beekeeping in the early and mid-20th century. He greatly improved upon beekeeping equipment and clothing and went on to manufacture these items as well as other equipment. His company sold via catalog worldwide and his book, \"How to Keep Bees & Sell Honey\", an introductory book of apiculture and marketing, allowed for a boom in beekeeping following World War II.\n\nIn the U.K. practical beekeeping was led in the early 20th century by a few men, pre-eminently Brother Adam and his Buckfast bee and R.O.B. Manley, author of many titles, including \"Honey Production in the British Isles\" and inventor of the Manley frame, still universally popular in the U.K. Other notable British pioneers include William Herrod-Hempsall and Gale.\n\nDr. Ahmed Zaky Abushady (1892–1955), was an Egyptian poet, medical doctor, bacteriologist and bee scientist who was active in England and in Egypt in the early part of the twentieth century. In 1919, Abushady patented a removable, standardized aluminum honeycomb. In 1919 he also founded The Apis Club in Benson, Oxfordshire, and its periodical Bee World, which was to be edited by Annie D. Betts and later by Dr. Eva Crane. The Apis Club was transitioned to the International Bee Research Association (IBRA). Its archives are held in the National Library of Wales. In Egypt in the 1930s, Abushady established The Bee Kingdom League and its organ, The Bee Kingdom.\n\nIn India, R. N. Mattoo was the pioneer worker in starting beekeeping with Indian honeybee, (\"Apis cerana indica\") in early 1930s. Beekeeping with European honeybee, (\"Apis mellifera\") was started by Dr. A. S. Atwal and his team members, O. P. Sharma and N. P. Goyal in Punjab in early 1960s.It remained confined to Punjab and Himachal Pradesh up to late 1970s. Later on in 1982, Dr. R. C. Sihag, working at Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar (Haryana), introduced and established this honeybee in Haryana and standardized its management practices for semi-arid-subtropical climates.On the basis of these practices, beekeeping with this honeybee could be extended to the rest of the country. Now beekeeping with \"Apis mellifera\" predominates in India.\n\nA fixed comb hive is a hive in which the combs cannot be removed or manipulated for management or harvesting without permanently damaging the comb. Almost any hollow structure can be used for this purpose, such as a log gum, skep, wooden box, or a clay pot or tube. Fixed comb hives are no longer in common use in industrialized countries, and are illegal in places that require movable combs to inspect for problems such as varroa and American foulbrood.\nIn many developing countries fixed comb hives are widely used and, because they can be made from any locally available material, are very inexpensive.\n\nBeekeeping using fixed comb hives is an essential part of the livelihoods of many communities in poor countries. The charity Bees for Development recognizes that local skills to manage bees in fixed comb hives are widespread in Africa, Asia, and South America. Internal size of fixed comb hives range from 32.7 liters (2000 cubic inches) typical of the clay tube hives used in Egypt to 282 liters (17209 cubic inches) for the Perone hive. Straw skeps, bee gums, and unframed box hives are unlawful in most US states, as the comb and brood cannot be inspected for diseases. However, skeps are still used for collecting swarms by hobbyists in the UK, before moving them into standard hives. Quinby used box hives to produce so much honey that he saturated the New York market in the 1860s. His writings contain excellent advice for management of bees in fixed comb hives.\n\nTop bar hives have been widely adopted in Africa where they are used to keep tropical honeybee ecotypes. Their advantages include being light weight, adaptable, easy to harvest honey, and less stressful for the bees. Disadvantages include combs that are fragile and cannot usually be extracted and returned to the bees to be refilled and that they cannot easily be expanded for additional honey storage.\n\nA growing number of amateur beekeepers are adopting various top-bar hives similar to the type commonly found in Africa. Top bar hives were originally used as a traditional beekeeping method in Greece and Vietnam with a history dating back over 2000 years. These hives have no frames and the honey-filled comb is not returned after extraction. Because of this, the production of honey is likely to be somewhat less than that of a frame and super based hive such as Langstroth or Dadant. Top bar hives are mostly kept by people who are more interested in having bees in their garden than in honey production per se. Some of the most well known top-bar hive designs are the Kenyan Top Bar Hive with sloping sides, the Tanzanian Top Bar Hive with straight sides, and Vertical Top Bar Hives, such as the Warre or \"People's Hive\" designed by Abbe Warre in the mid-1900s.\n\nThe initial costs and equipment requirements are typically much less than other hive designs. Scrap wood or #2 or #3 pine can often be used to build a nice hive. Top-bar hives also offer some advantages to interacting with the bees and the amount of weight that must be lifted is greatly reduced. Top-bar hives are being widely used in developing countries in Africa and Asia as a result of the Bees for Development program. Since 2011, a growing number of beekeepers in the U.S. are using various top-bar hives.\n\nThe De-Layens hive, Jackson Horizontal Hive, and various chest type hives are widely used in Spain, France, Ukraine, Belarus, Africa, and parts of Russia. They are a step up from fixed comb and top bar hives because they have movable frames that can be extracted. Their limitation is primarily that volume is fixed and not easily expanded. Honey has to be removed one frame at a time, extracted or crushed, and the empty frames returned to be refilled. Various horizontal hives have been adapted and widely used for commercial migratory beekeeping. The Jackson Horizontal Hive is particularly well adapted for tropical agriculture. The De-Layens hive is popular in parts of Spain.\n\nIn the United States, the Langstroth hive is commonly used. The Langstroth was the first successful top-opened hive with movable frames. Many other hive designs are based on the principle of bee space first described by Langstroth. The Langstroth hive is a descendant of Jan Dzierzon’s Polish hive designs. In the United Kingdom, the most common type of hive is the British National, which can hold Hoffman, British Standard or Manley frames. It is not unusual to see some other sorts of hive (Smith, Commercial, WBC, Langstroth, and Rose). Dadant and Modified Dadant hives are widely used in France and Italy where their large size is an advantage. Square Dadant hives – often called 12 frame Dadant or Brother Adam hives – are used in large parts of Germany and other parts of Europe by commercial beekeepers. The Rose hive is a modern design that attempts to address many of the flaws and limitations of other movable frame hives. The only significant weakness of the Rose design is that it requires 2 or 3 boxes as a brood nest which infers a large number of frames to be worked when managing the bees. The major advantage shared by these designs is that additional brood and honey storage space can be added via boxes of frames added to the hive. This also simplifies honey collection since an entire box of honey can be removed instead of removing one frame at a time.\n\nMost beekeepers also wear some protective clothing. Novice beekeepers usually wear gloves and a hooded suit or hat and veil. Experienced beekeepers sometimes elect not to use gloves because they inhibit delicate manipulations. The face and neck are the most important areas to protect, so most beekeepers wear at least a veil. Defensive bees are attracted to the breath, and a sting on the face can lead to much more pain and swelling than a sting elsewhere, while a sting on a bare hand can usually be quickly removed by fingernail scrape to reduce the amount of venom injected.\n\nThe protective clothing is generally light colored (but not colorful) and of a smooth material. This provides the maximum differentiation from the colony's natural predators (such as bears and skunks) which tend to be dark-colored and furry.\n\n'Stings' retained in clothing fabric continue to pump out an alarm pheromone that attracts aggressive action and further stinging attacks. Washing suits regularly, and rinsing gloved hands in vinegar minimizes attraction.\n\nSmoke is the beekeeper's third line of defense. Most beekeepers use a \"smoker\"—a device designed to generate smoke from the incomplete combustion of various fuels. Smoke calms bees; it initiates a feeding response in anticipation of possible hive abandonment due to fire. Smoke also masks alarm pheromones released by guard bees or when bees are squashed in an inspection. The ensuing confusion creates an opportunity for the beekeeper to open the hive and work without triggering a defensive reaction. In addition, when a bee consumes honey the bee's abdomen distends, supposedly making it difficult to make the necessary flexes to sting, though this has not been tested scientifically.\n\nSmoke is of questionable use with a swarm, because swarms do not have honey stores to feed on in response. Usually smoke is not needed, since swarms tend to be less defensive, as they have no stores or brood to defend, and a fresh swarm has fed well from the hive.\n\nMany types of fuel can be used in a smoker as long as it is natural and not contaminated with harmful substances. These fuels include hessian, twine, burlap, pine needles, corrugated cardboard, and mostly rotten or punky wood. Indian beekeepers, especially in Kerala, often use coconut fibers as they are readily available, safe, and of negligible expense. Some beekeeping supply sources also sell commercial fuels like pulped paper and compressed cotton, or even aerosol cans of smoke. Other beekeepers use sumac as fuel because it ejects lots of smoke and doesn't have an odor.\n\nSome beekeepers are using \"liquid smoke\" as a safer, more convenient alternative. It is a water-based solution that is sprayed onto the bees from a plastic spray bottle.\n\nTorpor may also be induced by the introduction of chilled air into the hive – while chilled carbon dioxide may have harmful long-term effects.\n\nSome beekeepers believe that the more stings a beekeeper receives, the less irritation each causes, and they consider it important for safety of the beekeeper to be stung a few times a season. Beekeepers have high levels of antibodies (mainly IgG) reacting to the major antigen of bee venom, phospholipase A2 (PLA). Antibodies correlate with the frequency of bee stings.\n\nThe entry of venom into the body from bee-stings may also be hindered and reduced by protective clothing that allows the wearer to remove stings and venom sacs with a simple tug on the clothing. Although the stinger is barbed, a worker bee is less likely to become lodged into clothing than human skin.\n\nIf a beekeeper is stung by a bee, there are many protective measures that should be taken in order to make sure the affected area does not become too irritated. The first cautionary step that should be taken following a bee sting is removing the stinger without squeezing the attached venom glands. A quick scrape with a fingernail is effective and intuitive. This step is effective in making sure that the venom injected does not spread, so the side effects of the sting will go away sooner. Washing the affected area with soap and water is also a good way to stop the spread of venom. The last step that needs to be taken is to apply ice or a cold compress to the stung area.\n\nThe natural beekeeping movement believes that modern beekeeping and agricultural practices, such as crop spraying, hive movement, frequent hive inspections, artificial insemination of queens, routine medication, and sugar water feeding, weaken bee hives.\n\nPractitioners of \"natural beekeeping\" tend to use variations of the top-bar hive, which is a simple design that retains the concept of movable comb without the use of frames or foundation. The horizontal top-bar hive, as championed by Marty Hardison, Michael Bush, Philip Chandler, Dennis Murrell and others, can be seen as a modernization of hollow log hives, with the addition of wooden bars of specific width from which bees hang their combs. Its widespread adoption in recent years can be attributed to the publication in 2007 of \"The Barefoot Beekeeper\" by Philip Chandler, which challenged many aspects of modern beekeeping and offered the horizontal top-bar hive as a viable alternative to the ubiquitous Langstroth-style movable-frame hive.\n\nThe most popular vertical top-bar hive is probably the Warré hive, based on a design by the French priest Abbé Émile Warré (1867–1951) and popularized by Dr. David Heaf in his English translation of Warré's book \"L'Apiculture pour Tous\" as \"Beekeeping For All\".\n\nRelated to natural beekeeping, urban beekeeping is an attempt to revert to a less industrialized way of obtaining honey by utilizing small-scale colonies that pollinate urban gardens. Urban apiculture has undergone a renaissance in the first decade of the 21st century, and urban beekeeping is seen by many as a growing trend.\n\nSome have found that \"city bees\" are actually healthier than \"rural bees\" because there are fewer pesticides and greater biodiversity. Urban bees may fail to find forage, however, and homeowners can use their landscapes to help feed local bee populations by planting flowers that provide nectar and pollen. An environment of year-round, uninterrupted bloom creates an ideal environment for colony reproduction.\n\nUrban beekeepers are testing modern types of beehive, thought for urban contest and easy to use. In 2015 appeared FlowHive and in 2018 Beeing, a Made in Italy hive, that allows to extract honey without entering in touch with the bees.\n\nModern beekeepers have experimented with raising bees indoors, in a controlled environment or in indoor observation hives. This may be done for reasons of space and monitoring, or in the off-season. In the off-season, large commercial beekeepers may move colonies to \"wintering\" warehouses, with fixed temperature, light and humidity. This helps the bees remain healthy, but relatively dormant. Wintered bees survive on stored honey, and new bees are not born.\n\nExperiments in raising bees for longer durations indoors have looked into more detailed and varying environment controls. In 2015, MIT's \"Synthetic Apiary\" project simulated springtime inside a closed environment, for a number of hives over the course of a winter. They provided food sources and simulated long days, and saw activity and reproduction levels comparable to that seen outdoors in warm weather. They concluded that such an indoor apiary could be sustained year-round if needed.\n\nA colony of bees consists of three castes of bee:\n\nThe queen is the only sexually mature female in the hive and all of the female worker bees and male drones are her offspring. The queen may live for up to three years or more and may be capable of laying half a million eggs or more in her lifetime. At the peak of the breeding season, late spring to summer, a good queen may be capable of laying 3,000 eggs in one day, more than her own body weight. This would be exceptional however; a prolific queen might peak at 2,000 eggs a day, but a more average queen might lay just 1,500 eggs per day. The queen is raised from a normal worker egg, but is fed a larger amount of royal jelly than a normal worker bee, resulting in a radically different growth and metamorphosis. The queen influences the colony by the production and dissemination of a variety of pheromones or \"queen substances\". One of these chemicals suppresses the development of ovaries in all the female worker bees in the hive and prevents them from laying eggs.\n\nThe queen emerges from her cell after 15 days of development and she remains in the hive for 3–7 days before venturing out on a mating flight. Mating flight is otherwise known as \"nuptial flight\". Her first orientation flight may only last a few seconds, just enough to mark the position of the hive. Subsequent mating flights may last from 5 minutes to 30 minutes, and she may mate with a number of male drones on each flight. Over several matings, possibly a dozen or more, the queen receives and stores enough sperm from a succession of drones to fertilize hundreds of thousands of eggs. If she does not manage to leave the hive to mate—possibly due to bad weather or being trapped in part of the hive—she remains infertile and becomes a \"drone layer\", incapable of producing female worker bees. Worker bees sometimes kill a non-performing queen and produce another. Without a properly performing queen, the hive is doomed.\n\nMating takes place at some distance from the hive and often several hundred feet in the air; it is thought that this separates the strongest drones from the weaker ones, ensuring that only the fastest and strongest drones get to pass on their genes.\n\nMost of the bees in a hive are female worker bees. At the height of summer when activity in the hive is frantic and work goes on non-stop, the life of a worker bee may be as short as 6 weeks; in late autumn, when no brood is being raised and no nectar is being harvested, a young bee may live for 16 weeks, right through the winter.\n\nOver the course of their lives, worker bees' duties are dictated by age. For the first few weeks of their lifespan, they perform basic chores within the hive: cleaning empty brood cells, removing debris and other housekeeping tasks, making wax for building or repairing comb, and feeding larvae. Later, they may ventilate the hive or guard the entrance. Older workers leave the hive daily, weather permitting, to forage for nectar, pollen, water, and propolis.\n\nDrones are the largest bees in the hive (except for the queen), at almost twice the size of a worker bee. Note in the picture that they have much larger eyes than the workers have, presumably to better locate the queen during the mating flight. They do not work, do not forage for pollen or nectar, are unable to sting, and have no other known function than to mate with new queens and fertilize them on their mating flights. A bee colony generally starts to raise drones a few weeks before building queen cells so they can supersede a failing queen or prepare for swarming. When queen-raising for the season is over, bees in colder climates drive drones out of the hive to die, biting and tearing their legs and wings.\n\nA domesticated bee colony is normally housed in a rectangular hive body, within which eight to ten parallel frames house the vertical plates of honeycomb that contain the eggs, larvae, pupae and food for the colony. If one were to cut a vertical cross-section through the hive from side to side, the brood nest would appear as a roughly ovoid ball spanning 5–8 frames of comb. The two outside combs at each side of the hive tend to be exclusively used for long-term storage of honey and pollen.\n\nWithin the central brood nest, a single frame of comb typically has a central disk of eggs, larvae and sealed brood cells that may extend almost to the edges of the frame. Immediately above the brood patch an arch of pollen-filled cells extends from side to side, and above that again a broader arch of honey-filled cells extends to the frame tops. The pollen is protein-rich food for developing larvae, while honey is also food but largely energy rich rather than protein rich. The nurse bees that care for the developing brood secrete a special food called \"royal jelly\" after feeding themselves on honey and pollen. The amount of royal jelly fed to a larva determines whether it develops into a worker bee or a queen.\n\nApart from the honey stored within the central brood frames, the bees store surplus honey in combs above the brood nest. In modern hives the beekeeper places separate boxes, called \"supers\", above the brood box, in which a series of shallower combs is provided for storage of honey. This enables the beekeeper to remove some of the supers in the late summer, and to extract the surplus honey harvest, without damaging the colony of bees and its brood nest below. If all the honey is \"stolen\", including the amount of honey needed to survive winter, the beekeeper must replace these stores by feeding the bees sugar or corn syrup in autumn.\n\nThe development of a bee colony follows an annual cycle of growth that begins in spring with a rapid expansion of the brood nest, as soon as pollen is available for feeding larvae. Some production of brood may begin as early as January, even in a cold winter, but breeding accelerates towards a peak in May (in the northern hemisphere), producing an abundance of harvesting bees synchronized to the main nectar flow in that region. Each race of bees times this build-up slightly differently, depending on how the flora of its original region blooms. Some regions of Europe have two nectar flows: one in late spring and another in late August. Other regions have only a single nectar flow. The skill of the beekeeper lies in predicting when the nectar flow will occur in his area and in trying to ensure that his colonies achieve a maximum population of harvesters at exactly the right time.\nThe key factor in this is the prevention or skillful management of the swarming impulse. If a colony swarms unexpectedly and the beekeeper does not manage to capture the resulting swarm, he is likely to harvest significantly less honey from that hive, since he has lost half his worker bees at a single stroke. If, however, he can use the swarming impulse to breed a new queen but keep all the bees in the colony together, he maximizes his chances of a good harvest. It takes many years of learning and experience to be able to manage all these aspects successfully, though owing to variable circumstances many beginners often achieve a good honey harvest.\n\nAll colonies are totally dependent on their queen, who is the only egg-layer. However, even the best queens live only a few years and one or two years longevity is the norm. She can choose whether or not to fertilize an egg as she lays it; if she does so, it develops into a female worker bee; if she lays an unfertilized egg it becomes a male drone. She decides which type of egg to lay depending on the size of the open brood cell she encounters on the comb. In a small worker cell, she lays a fertilized egg; if she finds a larger drone cell, she lays an unfertilized drone egg.\n\nAll the time that the queen is fertile and laying eggs she produces a variety of pheromones, which control the behavior of the bees in the hive. These are commonly called \"queen substance\", but there are various pheromones with different functions. As the queen ages, she begins to run out of stored sperm, and her pheromones begin to fail.\n\nInevitably, the queen begins to falter, and the bees decide to replace her by creating a new queen from one of her worker eggs. They may do this because she has been damaged (lost a leg or an antenna), because she has run out of sperm and cannot lay fertilized eggs (has become a \"drone laying queen\"), or because her pheromones have dwindled to where they cannot control all the bees in the hive. At this juncture, the bees produce one or more queen cells by modifying existing worker cells that contain a normal female egg. They then pursue one of two ways to replace the queen: supersedure, replacing or superseding the queen without swarming, or swarm cell production, dividing the hive into two colonies through swarming.\n\nSupersedure is highly valued as a behavioral trait by beekeepers. A hive that supersedes its old queen does not lose any stock. Instead it creates a new queen and the old one fades away or is killed when the new queen emerges. In these hives, the bees produce just one or two queen cells, characteristically in the center of the face of a broodcomb.\n\nSwarm cell production involves creating many queen cells, typically a dozen or more. These are located around the edges of a broodcomb, often at the sides and the bottom.\nOnce either process has begun, the old queen leaves the hive with the hatching of the first queen cells. She leaves accompanied by a large number of bees, predominantly young bees (wax-secretors), who form the basis of the new hive. Scouts are sent out from the swarm to find suitable hollow trees or rock crevices. As soon as one is found, the entire swarm moves in. Within a matter of hours, they build new wax brood combs, using honey stores that the young bees have filled themselves with before leaving the old hive. Only young bees can secrete wax from special abdominal segments, and this is why swarms tend to contain more young bees. Often a number of virgin queens accompany the first swarm (the \"prime swarm\"), and the old queen is replaced as soon as a daughter queen mates and begins laying. Otherwise, she is quickly superseded in the new home.\n\nDifferent sub-species of \"Apis mellifera\" exhibit differing swarming characteristics. In general the more northerly black races are said to swarm less and supersede more, whereas the more southerly yellow and grey varieties are said to swarm more frequently. The truth is complicated because of the prevalence of cross-breeding and hybridization of the sub species.\n\nIt is generally accepted that a colony of bees does not swarm until they have completed all of their brood combs, i.e., filled all available space with eggs, larvae, and brood. This generally occurs in late spring at a time when the other areas of the hive are rapidly filling with honey stores. One key trigger of the swarming instinct is when the queen has no more room to lay eggs and the hive population is becoming very congested. Under these conditions, a prime swarm may issue with the queen, resulting in a significant decrease in the population within the hive, leaving the old colony with a large number of hatching bees. The queen who leaves finds herself in a new hive with no eggs and no larvae but lots of energetic young bees who create a new set of brood combs from scratch in a very short time.\n\nAnother important factor in swarming is the age of the queen. Those under a year in age are unlikely to swarm unless they are extremely crowded, while older queens have swarming predisposition.\n\nSome beekeepers may monitor their colonies carefully in spring and watch for the appearance of queen cells, which are a dramatic signal that the colony is determined to swarm.\n\nWhen a colony has decided to swarm, queen cells are produced in numbers varying to a dozen or more. When the first of these queen cells is sealed after eight days of larval feeding, a virgin queen pupates and is due to emerge seven days later. Before leaving, the worker bees fill their stomachs with honey in preparation for the creation of new honeycombs in a new home. This cargo of honey also makes swarming bees less inclined to sting. A newly issued swarm is noticeably gentle for up to 24 hours and is often capable of being handled by a beekeeper without gloves or veil.\n\nThis swarm looks for shelter. A beekeeper may capture it and introduce it into a new hive, helping meet this need. Otherwise, it returns to a feral state, in which case it finds shelter in a hollow tree, excavation, abandoned chimney, or even behind shutters.\n\nBack at the original hive, the first virgin queen to emerge from her cell immediately seeks to kill all her rival queens still waiting to emerge. Usually, however, the bees deliberately prevent her from doing this, in which case, she too leads a second swarm from the hive. Successive swarms are called \"after-swarms\" or \"casts\" and can be very small, often with just a thousand or so bees—as opposed to a prime swarm, which may contain as many as ten to twenty-thousand bees.\n\nA small after-swarm has less chance of survival and may threaten the original hive's survival if the number of individuals left is unsustainable. When a hive swarms despite the beekeeper's preventative efforts, a good management practice is to give the reduced hive a couple frames of open brood with eggs. This helps replenish the hive more quickly and gives a second opportunity to raise a queen if there is a mating failure.\n\nEach race or sub-species of honey bee has its own swarming characteristics. Italian bees are very prolific and inclined to swarm; Northern European black bees have a strong tendency to supersede their old queen without swarming. These differences are the result of differing evolutionary pressures in the regions where each sub-species evolved.\n\nWhen a colony accidentally loses its queen, it is said to be \"queenless\". The workers realize that the queen is absent after as little as an hour, as her pheromones fade in the hive. The colony cannot survive without a fertile queen laying eggs to renew the population, so the workers select cells containing eggs aged less than three days and enlarge these cells dramatically to form \"emergency queen cells\". These appear similar to large peanut-like structures about an inch long that hang from the center or side of the brood combs. The developing larva in a queen cell is fed differently from an ordinary worker-bee; in addition to the normal honey and pollen, she receives a great deal of royal jelly, a special food secreted by young \"nurse bees\" from the hypopharyngeal gland. This special food dramatically alters the growth and development of the larva so that, after metamorphosis and pupation, it emerges from the cell as a queen bee. The queen is the only bee in a colony which has fully developed ovaries, and she secretes a pheromone which suppresses the normal development of ovaries in all her workers.\n\nBeekeepers use the ability of the bees to produce new queens to increase their colonies in a procedure called \"splitting a colony\". To do this, they remove several brood combs from a healthy hive, taking care to leave the old queen behind. These combs must contain eggs or larvae less than three days old and be covered by young \"nurse bees\", which care for the brood and keep it warm. These brood combs and attendant nurse bees are then placed into a small \"nucleus hive\" with other combs containing honey and pollen. As soon as the nurse bees find themselves in this new hive and realize they have no queen, they set about constructing emergency queen cells using the eggs or larvae they have in the combs with them.\n\nThe common agents of disease that affect adult honey bees include fungi, bacteria, protozoa, viruses, parasites, and poisons. The gross symptoms displayed by affected adult bees are very similar, whatever the cause, making it difficult for the apiarist to ascertain the causes of problems without microscopic identification of microorganisms or chemical analysis of poisons. Since 2006 colony losses from Colony Collapse Disorder have been increasing across the world although the causes of the syndrome are, as yet, unknown. In the US, commercial beekeepers have been increasing the number of hives to deal with higher rates of attrition.\n\n\"Galleria mellonella\" and Achroia grisella “wax moth” larvae that hatch, tunnel through, and destroy comb that contains bee larvae and their honey stores. The tunnels they create are lined with silk, which entangles and starves emerging bees. Destruction of honeycombs also results in honey leaking and being wasted. A healthy hive can manage wax moths, but weak colonies, unoccupied hives, and stored frames can be decimated.\n\nSmall hive beetle \"(Aethina tumida)\" is native to Africa but has now spread to most continents. It is a serious pest among honey bees unadapted to it.\n\n\"Varroa destructor\", the Varroa mite, is an established pest of two species of honey bee through many parts of the world, and is blamed by many researchers as a leading cause of CCD.\n\n\"Acarapis woodi\", the tracheal mite, infests the trachea of honey bees. The intensive management for Varroa has apparently reduced this parasite concurrently.\n\nAccording to U.N. FAO data, the world's beehive stock rose from around 50 million in 1961 to around 83 million in 2014, which comes to about 1.3% average annual growth. Average annual growth has accelerated to 1.9% since 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4288516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4288516", "title": "Bibi Bulak", "text": "Bibi Bulak\n\nBibi Bulak Performance Arts and Music Troupe is a professional drama and music troupe based in East Timor. They are linked to the Timorese art school Arte Moris and share facilities with them at the \"Arte Moris Cultural Centre\" in Comoro Dili.\n\nBibi Bulak develops dramas and tours the country performing them. They are often commissioned by other organizations for drama education projects.\n\nSince 2000, Bibi Bulak, the 'Crazy Goats' have established themselves as East Timor's premier performance arts company. Their unique body of work includes theatre, film, radio and television dramas, circus, dance, writing and music. Bibi Bulak makes the arts entertaining, accessible and educational for the people of East Timor. Based in Dili at the Arte Moris Cultural Centre, Bibi Bulak also runs workshops training young Timorese.\n\nBibi Bulak creates work that is made by and for East Timorese in the lingua franca Tetum. Bibi Bulak bring art, entertainment and public education to the people directly, regularly touring performances, and music, and producing nationally aired and distributed radio dramas and films.\n\nBibi Bulak runs a training school at its base in the capital city, Dili. Where social arts practices are used to teach:\n\n\nBibi Bulak uses the arts as a tool for public education, exploring issues pertinent to East Timor including:\n\n\n\nThe Arts in East Timor has only had the freedom to flourish since Independence. East Timorese have had little external contact with the Arts and thus there are limited skills, knowledge and resources on the ground.\n\nThe international arts community can support the development of the Arts in East Timor donations of:\n\n\nBibi Bulak is a member of the East Timorese National Theatre Network - MATTIL, Mahon Arte Teatru Timor Leste.\n\n"}
{"id": "320453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=320453", "title": "Black Stone", "text": "Black Stone\n\nThe Black Stone (, \"\", \"Black Stone\") is a rock set into the eastern corner of the Kaaba, the ancient building located in the center of the Grand Mosque in Mecca, Saudi Arabia. It is revered by Muslims as an Islamic relic which, according to Muslim tradition, dates back to the time of Adam and Eve.\n\nThe stone was venerated at the Kaaba in pre-Islamic pagan times. According to Islamic tradition, it was set intact into the Kaaba's wall by the prophet Muhammad in 605 CE, five years before his first revelation. Since then it has been broken into fragments and is now cemented into a silver frame in the side of the Kaaba. Its physical appearance is that of a fragmented dark rock, polished smooth by the hands of pilgrims. Islamic tradition holds that it fell from heaven as a guide for Adam and Eve to build an altar. It has often been described as a meteorite.\n\nMuslim pilgrims circle the Kaaba as a part of the \"tawaf\" ritual during the \"hajj\" and many try to stop and kiss the Black Stone, emulating the kiss that Islamic tradition records that it received from Muhammad. Muslims do not worship the Black Stone.\n\nThe Black Stone was originally a single piece of rock but today consists of a number of fragmented pieces which have been cemented together. They are surrounded by a silver frame which is fastened by silver nails to the Kaaba's outer wall. The fragments are themselves made up of smaller pieces which have been combined to form the seven or eight fragments visible today. The Stone's exposed face measures about by . Its original size is unclear and the recorded dimensions have changed considerably over time, as the pieces have been rearranged in their cement matrix on several occasions. In the 10th century, an observer described the Black Stone as being one cubit () long. By the early 17th century, it was recorded as measuring . According to Ali Bey in the 18th century, it was described as high, and Muhammad Ali Pasha reported it as being long by wide.\n\nThe Black Stone is attached to the east corner of the Kaaba, known as \"al-Rukn al-Aswad\" (the Corner of the Black Stone). Another stone, known as the \"Hajar as-Sa’adah\" (Stone of Felicity) is set into the Kaaba's opposite corner, \"al-Rukn al-Yamani\" (the Yemeni Corner), at a somewhat lower height than the Black Stone. The choice of the east corner may have had ritual significance; it faces the rain-bringing east wind (\"al-qabul\") and the direction from which Canopus rises.\n\nThe silver frame around the Black Stone and the black \"kiswah\" or cloth enveloping the Kaaba were for centuries maintained by the Ottoman Sultans in their role as Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques. The frames wore out over time due to the constant handling by pilgrims and were periodically replaced. Worn-out frames were brought back to Istanbul, where they are still kept as part of the sacred relics in the Topkapı Palace.\n\nThe Black Stone was described by European travellers to Arabia in the 19th and early 20th centuries, who visited the Kaaba disguised as pilgrims. Swiss traveller Johann Ludwig Burckhardt visited Mecca in 1814, and provided a detailed description in his 1829 book \"Travels in Arabia\":\n\nVisiting the Kaaba in 1853, Richard Francis Burton also noted that:\n\nRitter von Laurin, the Austrian consul-general in Egypt, was able to inspect a fragment of the Stone removed by Muhammad Ali in 1817 and reported that it had a pitch-black exterior and a silver-grey, fine-grained interior in which tiny cubes of a bottle-green material were embedded. There are reportedly a few white or yellow spots on the face of the Stone, and it is officially described as being white with the exception of the face.\n\nThe Black Stone was held in reverence well before the preaching of Islam by Muhammad. It had long been associated with the Kaaba, which was built in the pre-Islamic period and was a site of pilgrimage of Nabateans who visited the shrine once a year to perform their pilgrimage. The Kaaba held 360 idols of the Meccan gods. The Semitic cultures of the Middle East had a tradition of using unusual stones to mark places of worship, a phenomenon which is reflected in the Hebrew Bible as well as the Qur'an, although bowing to or kissing such sacred objects is repeatedly described in the Tanakh as idolatrous and was the subject of prophetic rebuke. The meteorite-origin theory of the Black Stone has seen it likened by some writers to the meteorite which was placed and worshipped in the Greek Temple of Artemis. Some writers remark on the apparent similarity of the Black Stone and its frame to the external female genitalia, and ascribe this to its earlier association with fertility rites of Arabia.\n\nA \"red stone\" was associated with the deity of the south Arabian city of Ghaiman, and there was a \"white stone\" in the Kaaba of al-Abalat (near the city of Tabala, south of Mecca). Worship at that time period was often associated with stone reverence, mountains, special rock formations, or distinctive trees. The Kaaba marked the location where the sacred world intersected with the profane, and the embedded Black Stone was a further symbol of this as an object as a link between heaven and earth. It may have been associated with the pre-Islamic deities al-Rahman and Hubal, to whom the Kaaba was formerly dedicated; Muhammad is said to have called the stone \"the right hand of al-Rahman\".\n\nAccording to Islamic belief Muhammad is credited with setting the Black Stone in the current place in the wall of the Kaaba. A story found in Ibn Ishaq's \"Sirah Rasul Allah\" tells how the clans of Mecca renovated the Kaaba following a major fire which had partly destroyed the structure. The Black Stone had been temporarily removed to facilitate the rebuilding work. The clans could not agree on which one of them should have the honour of setting the Black Stone back in its place.\n\nThey decided to wait for the next man to come through the gate and ask him to make the decision. That person was 35-year-old Muhammad, five years before his prophethood. He asked the elders of the clans to bring him a cloth and put the Black Stone in its centre. Each of the clan leaders held the corners of the cloth and carried the Black Stone to the right spot. Then, Muhammad set the stone in place, satisfying the honour of all of the clans. After his Conquest of Mecca in 630, Muhammad is said to have ridden round the Kaaba seven times on his camel, touching the Black Stone with his stick in a gesture of reverence.\n\nThe Stone has suffered repeated desecrations and damage over the course of time. It is said to have been struck and smashed to pieces by a stone fired from a catapult during the Umayyad Caliphate's siege of Mecca in 683. The fragments were rejoined by Abd Allah ibn al-Zubayr using a silver ligament. In January 930, it was stolen by the Qarmatians, who carried the Black Stone away to their base in Hajar (modern Eastern Arabia). According to Ottoman historian Qutb al-Din, writing in 1857, the Qarmatian leader Abu Tahir al-Jannabi set the Black Stone up in his own mosque, the \"Masjid al-Dirar\", with the intention of redirecting the \"hajj\" away from Mecca. This failed, as pilgrims continued to venerate the spot where the Black Stone had been.\n\nAccording to the historian al-Juwayni, the Stone was returned twenty-three years later, in 952. The Qarmatians held the Black Stone for ransom, and forced the Abbasids to pay a huge sum for its return. It was wrapped in a sack and thrown into the Friday Mosque of Kufa, accompanied by a note saying \"By command we took it, and by command we have brought it back.\" Its abduction and removal caused further damage, breaking the stone into seven pieces. Its abductor, Abu Tahir, is said to have met a terrible fate; according to Qutb al-Din, \"the filthy Abu Tahir was afflicted with a gangrenous sore, his flesh was eaten away by worms, and he died a most terrible death\". To protect the shattered stone, the custodians of the Kaaba commissioned a pair of Meccan goldsmiths to build a silver frame to surround it, and it has been housed within a similar frame ever since.\n\nIn the 11th century, a man allegedly sent by the Fatimid caliph al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah attempted to smash the Black Stone but was killed on the spot, having caused only slight damage. In 1674, according to Johann Ludwig Burckhardt, someone smeared the Black Stone with excrement so that \"every one who kissed it retired with a sullied beard\". Twelvers from Safavid Iran were suspected of being responsible and were the target of curses from other Muslims for centuries afterwards, though the explorer Sir Richard Francis Burton doubted that they were the culprits; he attributed the act to \"some Jew or Greek, who risked his life to gratify a furious bigotry\".\n\nThe Black Stone plays a central role in the ritual of \"istilam\", when pilgrims kiss the Black Stone, touch it with their hands or raise their hands towards it while repeating the takbir, \"God is Greatest\". They perform this in the course of walking seven times around the Kaaba in a counterclockwise direction (\"tawaf\"), emulating the actions of Muhammad. At the end of each circuit, they perform \"istilam\" and may approach the Black Stone to kiss it at the end of \"tawaf\". In modern times, large crowds make it practically impossible for everyone to kiss the stone, so it is currently acceptable to point in the direction of the Stone on each of their seven circuits around the Kaaba. Some even say that the Stone is best considered simply as a marker, useful in keeping count of the ritual circumambulations that one has performed.\n\nWriting in \"Dawn in Madinah: A Pilgrim's Progress\", Muzaffar Iqbal described his experience of venerating the Black Stone during a pilgrimage to Mecca:\n\nThe Black Stone and the Kaaba's opposite corner, \"al-Rukn al-Yamani\", are both often perfumed by the mosque's custodians. This can cause problems for pilgrims in the state of ihram (\"consecration\"), who are forbidden from using scented products and will require a \"kaffara\" (donation) as a penance if they touch either.\n\nIslamic tradition holds that the Black Stone fell from Jannah to show Adam and Eve where to build an altar, which became the first temple on Earth.\nMuslims believe that the stone was originally pure and dazzling white, but has since turned black because of the sins of the people who touch it. Its black colour is deemed to symbolize the essential spiritual virtue of detachment and poverty for God (\"faqr\") and the extinction of ego required to progress towards God (\"qalb\").\n\nAccording to a prophetic tradition, \"Touching them both (the Black Stone and \"al-Rukn al-Yamani\") is an expiation for sins.\" Adam's altar and the stone were said to have been lost during Noah's Flood and forgotten. Ibrahim (Abraham) was said to have later found the Black Stone at the original site of Adam's altar when the angel Jibrail revealed it to him. Ibrahim ordered his son Ismael – who in Muslim belief is an ancestor of Muhammad – to build a new temple, the Kaaba, into which the stone was to be embedded.\n\nAnother tradition says that the Black Stone was originally an angel that had been placed by God in the Garden of Eden to guard Adam. The angel was absent when Adam ate the forbidden fruit and was punished by being turned into a jewel — the Black Stone. God granted it the power of speech and placed it at the top of Abu Qubays, a mountain in the historic region of Khurasan, before moving the mountain to Mecca. When Ibrahim took the Black Stone from Abu Qubays to build the Kaaba, the mountain asked Ibrahim to intercede with God so that it would not be returned to Khurasan and would stay in Mecca.\n\nAccording to some scholars, the Black Stone was the same stone that Islamic tradition describes as greeting Muhammad before his prophethood. This led to a debate about whether the Black Stone's greeting comprised actual speech or merely a sound, and following that, whether the stone was a living creature or an inanimate object. Whichever was the case, the stone was held to be a symbol of prophethood.\n\nA hadith records that, when the second Caliph Umar ibn al-Khattab (580–644) came to kiss the stone, he said in front of all assembled: \"No doubt, I know that you are a stone and can neither harm anyone nor benefit anyone. Had I not seen Allah's Messenger [Muhammad] kissing you, I would not have kissed you.\" In the hadith collection Kanz al-Ummal, it is recorded that Ali responded to Umar, saying, \"This stone (Hajar Aswad) can indeed benefit and harm. ... Allah says in Quran that he created human beings from the progeny of Adam and made them witness over themselves and asked them, 'Am I not your creator?' Upon this, all of them confirmed it. Thus Allah wrote this confirmation. And this stone has a pair of eyes, ears and a tongue and it opened its mouth upon the order of Allah, who put that confirmation in it and ordered to witness it to all those worshippers who come for Hajj.\"\n\nMuhammad Labib al-Batanuni, writing in 1911, commented on the practice that the pre-Islamic practice of venerating stones (including the Black Stone) arose not because such stones are \"sacred for their own sake, but because of their relation to something holy and respected\". The Indian Islamic scholar Muhammad Hamidullah summed up the meaning of the Black Stone:\n\nIn recent years several literalist views of the Black Stone have emerged. A small minority accepts as literally true a hadith, usually taken as allegorical, which asserts that \"the Stone will appear on the Day of Judgement (Qiyamah) with eyes to see and a tongue to speak, and give evidence in favour of all who kissed it in true devotion, but speak out against whoever indulged in gossip or profane conversations during his circumambulation of the Kaaba\".\n\nThe nature of the Black Stone has been much debated. It has been described variously as basalt stone, an agate, a piece of natural glass or—most popularly—a stony meteorite. , the curator of the Austro-Hungarian imperial collection of minerals, published the first comprehensive analysis of the Black Stone in 1857 in which he favoured a meteoritic origin for the Stone. Robert Dietz and John McHone proposed in 1974 that the Black Stone was actually an agate, judging from its physical attributes and a report by an Arab geologist that the Stone contained clearly discernible diffusion banding characteristic of agates.\n\nA significant clue to its nature is provided by an account of the Stone's recovery in 951 AD after it had been stolen 21 years earlier; according to a chronicler, the Stone was identified by its ability to float in water. If this account is accurate, it would rule out the Black Stone being an agate, a basalt lava or a stony meteorite, though it would be compatible with it being glass or pumice.\n\nElsebeth Thomsen of the University of Copenhagen proposed a different hypothesis in 1980. She suggested that the Black Stone may be a glass fragment or impactite from the impact of a fragmented meteorite that fell 6,000 years ago at Wabar, a site in the Rub' al Khali desert 1,100 km east of Mecca. A 2004 scientific analysis of the Wabar site suggests that the impact event happened much more recently than first thought and might have occurred within the last 200–300 years.\n\nThe meteoritic hypothesis is viewed by geologists as doubtful. The British Natural History Museum suggests that it may be a pseudometeorite, in other words a terrestrial rock mistakenly attributed to a meteoritic origin.\n\nThe Black stone has never been analysed with modern scientific techniques and its origins remain the subject of speculation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1966461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1966461", "title": "Canadian Mosaic", "text": "Canadian Mosaic\n\nCanadian Mosaic was a book by John Murray Gibbon, published in 1938. Gibbon's book, the full title of which was Canadian Mosaic: The Making of a Northern Nation, heralded a new way of thinking about immigrants that was to shape Canadian immigration policy in the latter part of the Twentieth century. The idea of a mosaic, in which each cultural group retained a distinct identity and still contributed to the nation as a whole, was in contrast to the melting pot, a popular metaphor for the more assimilationist American approach to immigration.\n\nThe idea of a mosaic of cultures forming a nation was adopted by Canadian sociologist John Porter in his study of social class, entitled: \"Vertical Mosaic: An Analysis of Social Class and Power in Canada\". The mosaic theme became a part of Canadian multiculturalism policy in the 1970s, which envisioned Canada as a \"cultural mosaic\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6389443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6389443", "title": "Colorado Group Limited", "text": "Colorado Group Limited\n\nColorado Group Limited was an Australian public company that operates a number of retail clothing chains. Major brands include Colorado Adventurewear, Mathers, Williams the Shoemen, JAG, Diana Ferrari, and Pairs. The company is based in Brisbane, Queensland with an office in Cremorne, Victoria. The history of the company dates back over 140 years to the 1864 founding of Williams in Ballarat, Victoria. In 2011, the company became known as Fusion Retail Brands.\n\nColorado Group Limited was de-listed from the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) on 15 August 2007 following the issue by ARH Investments (Australia) Pty Limited of compulsory acquisition notices on 3 July 2007.\n\nThe Colorado clothing retail group went into receivership on 30 March 2011. Insolvency accounting specialists Ferrier Hodgson were placed in charge of the group. Colorado was owned by Affinity Equity Partners.\n\nIn June 2011 it was announced that the clothing chain was to \"shut its doors\" at the cost of 1,042 jobs. In Australia 100 underperforming Colorado stores will shut, 21 Williams stores, 7 Mathers stores, 2 JAG stores and one Diana Ferrari store. In New South wales 42 stores will close, and in Victoria 27 will close. 9 Colorado Stores in New Zealand will also close.\n\nColorado will cease selling its clothing lines, returning to its beginning as a shoe brand which will be sold through the company's Mathers and Williams the Shoemen stores, and online.\n\n"}
{"id": "20468594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20468594", "title": "Cori language", "text": "Cori language\n\nThe Cori (Chori) language is a minor Plateau language spoken in a single village in Kaduna State in Nigeria.\n\nCori is known for having six distinct levels of tone, too many to transcribe using the International Phonetic Alphabet, which allows five. However, there are only three underlying tones: 1 (), 4 (), and 6 (), which are all that need to be written for literacy. Most cases of Tone 2 () are a result of tone sandhi, with 4 becoming 2 before 1. Tones 3 () and 5 () can be analysed as contour tones, with underlying realised as and realised as .\n\nIn order to transcribe the surface tones without numerals (which are ambiguous), an extra diacritic is needed, as is common for four-level languages in Central America: \n\n"}
{"id": "58564670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58564670", "title": "Cultural footprint", "text": "Cultural footprint\n\nA cultural footprint is the impact that a group or individual has on the cultural environment.\n\n“Cultural footprint” was defined in June 2013, at the initiative of a group of experts from UNESCO, the OECD, the International Organisation of the Francophonie, French ministries, various companies and civil society.\n\nThey explained it as “all of the externalities, both positive and negative, generated in the cultural environment by agents’ actions”. It is considered to be positive when it enriches cultural diversity or fosters cultural intensity.\n\nA second reference document published in 2017 specified that “all actors have the possibility of activating (i.e. exploring and utilizing) available cultural resources. At the same time, it is their responsibility to make a positive contribution” to that sub-stratum, to that creative atmosphere. This means that groups and individuals must “set requirements for themselves, engage based on their own singularities, and be culturally involved and invested”.\n\n“The Cultural Footprint of the Cosmetic Sector” is a document to which Gilles Andrier, Loïc Armand, Francesco Bandarin, Jérôme Bédier, Françoise Benhamou, Fouad Benseddik, Gilles Boëtsch, Dominique Bourg, Jérôme Gouadain, Maria Gravari-Barbas, Marc-Antoine Jamet, François Jullien, Pascal Lamy, Jacques Lévy, Gilles Lipovetsky, Françoise Montenay, Jean Musitelli, Patrick O’Quin, Philippe d’Ornano, Dominique Perrault, Marie-Hélène Plainfossé and Nicole Rouvet contributed. It suggests several aspects of the cultural environment where economics might be able to make a contribution: architecture, art, colours, enjoyment, ethics, heritage, imagination, learning, social skills, singularity, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "3548378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3548378", "title": "Druon Antigoon", "text": "Druon Antigoon\n\nDruon Antigoon is a Flemish folkloric character. He was a mythical giant who lived in Antwerp.\n\nGuarding a bridge on the river Scheldt, he exacted a toll from those crossing the river. For those who refused, he severed one of their hands and threw it into the river. Eventually, Antigoon was slain by a young Roman soldier named \"Brabo\", who cut off the giant's own hand and flung it into the river.\n\nAccording to folklore, and as celebrated by the statue in front of the town hall, this legend is the origin of the name \"Antwerp\": \"Antwerpen\", from Dutch \"hand werpen\"—akin to Old English \"hand\" and \"wearpan\" (= to throw), that has changed to today's \"warp\".\n"}
{"id": "23475857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23475857", "title": "Durarara!!", "text": "Durarara!!\n\n, often shortened to DRRR!!, is a Japanese light novel series written by Ryohgo Narita, with illustrations by Suzuhito Yasuda, that has also been adapted into a Japanese anime series. \"Durarara!!\" tells the story of a dullahan working as an underworld courier in Ikebukuro, an internet-based anonymous gang called the Dollars, and the chaos that unfolds around the most dangerous people in Ikebukuro. The series ran for thirteen volumes, published by ASCII Media Works under their Dengeki Bunko imprint.\n\nA manga adaptation by Akiyo Satorigi started serialization in the shōnen manga magazine \"Monthly GFantasy\" on April 18, 2009. An anime adaptation began airing in Japan in January 2010. In April 2014, a sequel series titled and set two years after the events of the original series started. Two games based on the series for the PlayStation Portable were released, and two games for PlayStation Vita were released later.\n\nMikado Ryūgamine, a young boy who longs for the exciting life of the big city, moves to Ikebukuro to attend Raira Academy with his childhood friend Masaomi Kida, whom he has not seen since he was young. After the two meet at the train station, they set out to explore the streets of Ikebukuro. Masaomi warns Mikado about people he does not want to cross in the city such as the violent and superhumanly strong man Shizuo Heiwajima, the information broker Izaya Orihara, and the mysterious gang known as \"The Dollars.\" After running into some of the side characters, Mikado sees a local legend called the \"Black Rider\" who rides around Ikebukuro on a black motorcycle that occasionally neighs like a horse and who is rumored to have no head under her helmet. The \"Black Rider's\" real name is Celty Sturluson; she is an Irish dullahan who is in Ikebukuro looking for her stolen head while working as an underworld courier. The narrative follows all of the characters equally, showing how their lives intersect and create a greater plot line from each character's knowledge about a common incident.\n\nThe story is told from the perspective of approximately eleven of the main characters and changes every episode in the anime, sometimes even more often. One of the few constants given in every episode is that the narrator gives their own opinion on the current situation that they are in as well as what things that make them tick and keep them going in Ikebukuro: a city with a large underbelly that is the medium for the majority of both the plot's development and random violence throughout the series.\n\nThe \"Durarara!!\" light novels are written by Ryohgo Narita and illustrated by Suzuhito Yasuda. The first novel was released in April 2004 under ASCII Media Works under their Dengeki Bunko imprint and the thirteenth and final novel was released in January 2014. A sequel series, titled \"Durarara!! SH\" is under production. A Chinese-language release in Taiwan and Hong Kong is published by the Taiwan branch of Kadokawa Media under their \"Fantastic Novels\" imprint. Daewon C.I. licensed the Korean-language release of the series in South Korea and releases the novels under their \"Newtype Novels\" imprint. As of January 2015, it was announced that \"Yen Press\" would be releasing the \"Durarara!!\" Novels in English under their Yen On Imprint.\n\nA manga adaptation written by Narita and illustrated by Akiyo Satorigi first appeared in the May issue of Square Enix's \"Monthly GFantasy\" in April 2009 and became a regular series starting with the magazine's July issue released June 2009. As of June 27, 2011, four \"tankōbon\" have been released. The manga is licensed in North America by Yen Press and released the first volume in January 2012. There are sequels like Durarara!! Saika Arc that are out in Japan and America by the same author of the original manga. A manga adaptation of the \"Durarara!! 3way standoff -alley-\" video game began serializing in the September issue of ASCII Media Works' Monthly Sylph magazine on July 22, 2013. A crossover manga with \"Yozakura Quartet\", titled \"YZQ ✕ DRRR!!\", was released with the limited edition Blu-Ray of \"Yozakura Quartet ~Hana no Uta~\".\n\nAn anime adaption of the light novels was announced in the wraparound sleeve of the sixth volume of the light novel. The anime is produced by Brain's Base and started airing on January 8, 2010 on MBS, TBS, and CBC. The anime was simulcasted for English-speaking audiences within 24 hours of its Japanese premiere. The anime adapted the first three novels, and it was licensed by Beez Entertainment for European release; while at Anime Expo 2010, Aniplex of America confirmed that they have the license to \"Durarara!!\", later producing an English dub for a January 2011 release. The English dub was produced at Bang Zoom! Entertainment. The music for the first season was composed by Makoto Yoshimori, who also wrote the music for \"Baccano!\".\n\nAniplex of America released \"Durarara!!\" in three digipak, two-disc sets. Part one was released on January 25, 2011, part two was released on March 29, 2011, and part three was released on May 31, 2011. They were exclusively sold at RightStuf.com and at Bandai Entertainment's The Store. As of March 29, 2011, \"Durarara!!\" (Eps. 1–9, dubbed) have been added to the U.S. PlayStation Network Video Store. The show began its U.S. broadcast with Cartoon Network's Adult Swim block on June 26, 2011 and aired its last episode on December 17, 2011.\n\nOn March 15, 2014, a new TV anime series was announced, titled . The main staff from the first series returned, though it was produced at studio Shuka instead of Brain's Base. It aired in three different cours, or quarters of a year. The cours are subtitled , , and respectively. The first cour began in January 2015, the second cour began in July 2015 and the third cour began in January 2016. Crunchyroll simulcasts the series in North America, Central America, South America, Ireland, and the United Kingdom. Aniplex of America licensed the series and is streaming an English dub via Crunchyroll, Funimation and Hulu.\n\nAn internet radio show called was aired on February 26, 2010 and ended as of March 25, 2011. The hosts were Toshiyuki Toyonaga and Kana Hanazawa, the voices for Mikado Ryūgamine and Anri Sonohara respectively.\n\nTwo games based on the series were released only in Japan, both visual novels for PlayStation Portable. The first one titled was released on September 22, 2010. The second one titled was released on August 25, 2011.\nAs part of the \"Durarara 10th anniversary project\", a new game titled was announced; and was released on June 19, 2014 for PlayStation Vita. Another PlayStation Vita game titled \"Durarara!! Relay\" was released in January 2015.\n\nAlthough it has commonly been claimed that the title \"Durarara\" is an onomatopoeia for the \"revving of an engine,\" Narita states specifically in the first light novel volume that the name means absolutely nothing. He had been editing the finished draft of his book, when his editor called. When prompted for a title, Narita \"...just randomly gave a name, 'Du...Durarara?'\" Upon hearing this, his editor responded with a positive remark as he liked ambiguous titles.\"\n\nAccording to Oricon, the ninth volume of \"Durarara!!\" was the first to sell the most over a week in its bunkobon for February 7–13; previously, the highest-ranked \"DRRR!!\" volume had been the eighth, which ranked second.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "828020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=828020", "title": "Ertra, Ertra, Ertra", "text": "Ertra, Ertra, Ertra\n\nErtra, Ertra, Ertra (, ) is the national anthem of Eritrea. It was adopted in 1993 shortly after independence, and is officially transliterated as \"Eritrea, Eritrea, Eritrea\" in English. The hymn was written by Solomon Tsehaye Beraki, and composed by Isaac Abraham Meharezghi and Aron Tekle Tesfatsion.\n\n"}
{"id": "52759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52759", "title": "Final Fantasy X", "text": "Final Fantasy X\n\nFinal Fantasy X is a role-playing video game developed and published by Square as the tenth entry in the \"Final Fantasy\" series. Originally released in 2001 for Sony's PlayStation 2, the game was re-released as \"Final Fantasy X/X-2 HD Remaster\" for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita in 2013, for PlayStation 4 in 2015, Microsoft Windows in 2016, and will be released for the Nintendo Switch and Xbox One in 2019. The game marks the \"Final Fantasy\" series transition from entirely pre-rendered backdrops to fully three-dimensional areas, and is also the first in the series to feature voice acting. \"Final Fantasy X\" replaces the Active Time Battle (ATB) system with the \"Conditional Turn-Based Battle\" (CTB) system, and uses a new leveling system called the \"Sphere Grid\".\n\nSet in the fantasy world of Spira, a setting influenced by the South Pacific, Thailand and Japan, the game's story revolves around a group of adventurers and their quest to defeat a rampaging monster known as Sin. The player character is Tidus, a star athlete in the fictional sport of blitzball, who finds himself in the world Spira after his home city of Zanarkand is destroyed by Sin. Shortly after arriving to Spira, Tidus joins the summoner Yuna on her pilgrimage to destroy Sin.\n\nDevelopment of \"Final Fantasy X\" began in 1999, with a budget of more than US$32.3 million (US$ million in dollars) and a team of more than 100 people. The game was the first in the main series not entirely scored by Nobuo Uematsu; Masashi Hamauzu and Junya Nakano were signed as Uematsu's fellow composers. \"Final Fantasy X\" was both a critical and commercial success, selling over 8 million units worldwide. It is widely considered to be one of the greatest video games of all time. On March 3, 2003, it was followed by \"Final Fantasy X-2\", making it the first \"Final Fantasy\" game to have a direct game sequel.\n\nLike previous games in the series, \"Final Fantasy X\" is presented in a third-person perspective, with players directly navigating the main character, Tidus, around the world to interact with objects and people. Unlike previous games, however, the world and town maps have been fully integrated, with terrain outside of cities rendered to scale. As Tidus explores the world, he randomly encounters enemies. When an enemy is encountered, the environment switches to a turn-based battle area where characters and enemies await their turn to attack.\n\nThe gameplay of \"Final Fantasy X\" differs from that of previous \"Final Fantasy\" games in its lack of a top-down perspective world map. Earlier games featured a miniature representation of the expansive areas between towns and other distinct locations, used for long-distance traveling. In \"Final Fantasy X\", almost all the locations are essentially continuous and never fade out to a world map. Regional connections are mostly linear, forming a single path through the game's locations, though an airship becomes available late in the game, giving the player the ability to navigate Spira faster. Like previous games in the series, \"Final Fantasy X\" features numerous minigames, most notably the fictional underwater sport \"blitzball\".\n\n\"Final Fantasy X\" introduces the \"Conditional Turn-Based Battle\" system in place of the series' traditional \"Active Time Battle\" system first used in \"Final Fantasy IV\". Whereas the ATB concept features real-time elements, the CTB system is a turn-based format that pauses the battle during each of the player's turns. Thus, the CTB design allows the player to select an action without time pressure. A graphical timeline along the upper-right side of the screen details who will be receiving turns next, and how various actions taken will affect the subsequent order of turns. The ordering of turns can be affected by a number of spells, items, and abilities that inflict status effects upon the controlled characters or the enemies. The player can control up to three characters in battle, though a swapping system allows the player to replace them with a character outside the active party at any time. \"Limit Breaks\", highly damaging special attacks, reappear in \"Final Fantasy X\" as \"Overdrives\". In this new incarnation of the feature, most of the techniques are interactive, requiring button inputs to increase their effectiveness. While initially the Overdrives can be used when the character receives a significant amount of damage, the player is able to modify the requirements to unlock them.\n\n\"Final Fantasy X\" introduces an overhaul of the summoning system employed in previous games of the series. Whereas in previous titles a summoned creature would arrive, perform one action, and then depart, the \"Aeons\" of \"Final Fantasy X\" arrive and entirely replace the battle party, fighting in their place until either the aeon wins the battle, is defeated itself, or is dismissed by the player. Aeons have their own statistics, commands, special attacks, spells, and Overdrives. The player acquires five aeons over the course of the game through the completion of Cloister of Trials puzzles, but three additional aeons can be obtained by completing various side-quests.\n\nAs with previous titles in the series, players have the opportunity to develop and improve their characters by defeating enemies and acquiring items, though the traditional experience point system is replaced by a new system called the \"Sphere Grid\". Instead of characters gaining pre-determined statistic bonuses for their attributes after leveling up, each character gains \"Sphere Levels\" after collecting enough Ability Points (AP). Sphere Levels allow players to move around the Sphere Grid, a pre-determined grid of interconnected nodes consisting of various statistic and ability bonuses. \"Spheres\" are applied to these nodes, unlocking its function for the selected character.\n\nThe Sphere Grid system also allows players to fully customize characters in contrast to their intended battle roles, such as turning the White Mage-roled Yuna into a physical powerhouse and the swordsman Auron into a healer. The \"International\" and PAL versions of the game include an optional \"Expert\" version of the Sphere Grid; in these versions, all of the characters start in the middle of the grid and may follow whichever path the player chooses. As a trade-off, the Expert grid has fewer nodes in total, thus decreasing the total statistic upgrades available during the game.\n\nBlitzball is a minigame that requires strategy and tactics. The underwater sport is played in a large, hovering sphere of water surrounded by a larger audience of onlookers. The player controls one character at a time as they swim through the sphere performing passes, tackles, and attempts to score. The gameplay is similar to that of the main game in the way that the controlled character moves through the area until they encounter an enemy. In this case, the enemy is a member of the opposing team. Status effects are also implemented in the minigame as each player can learn techniques that are equivalent to abilities in the main game.\n\nBlitzball is first introduced in the beginning of the game during one of the early cinematic sequences in which Tidus, the main character who is described as a star blitzball player, is part of an intense game. It is the only minigame that plays a role in the overall plot line as it is not only a main part of Tidus's character, but it's also in the first scene where the game's main antagonist, Sin is shown. Unlike with the other minigames, playing blitzball is mandatory near the beginning of the game, but it is later optional.\n\n\"Final Fantasy X\" is set in the fictional world of Spira, consisting of one large landmass divided into three subcontinents, surrounded by small tropical islands. It features diverse climates, ranging from the tropical Besaid and Kilika islands, to the temperate Mi'ihen region, to the frigid Macalania and Mt. Gagazet areas. Although predominantly populated by humans, Spira features a variety of races. Among them are the Al Bhed, a technologically advanced but disenfranchised sub-group of humans with distinctive green eyes and unique language. The Guado, which are less human in appearance, with elongated fingers and other arboreal features. Still less human are the lion-like Ronso and the frog-like Hypello. A subset of Spira's sentient races are the \"unsent\", the strong-willed spirits of the dead that remain in corporeal form. In Spira, the dead who are not sent to the Farplane by a summoner come to envy the living and transform into \"fiends\", the monsters that are encountered throughout the game; however, unsent with strong attachments to the world of the living may retain their human form. Other fauna in Spira, aside from those drawn from real animals, such as cats, dogs, birds, and butterflies, include the gigantic, amphibious shoopufs (which are similar to elephants); and the emu-like chocobo, which appears in most \"Final Fantasy\" games. Spira is very different from the mainly European-style worlds found in previous \"Final Fantasy\" games, being much more closely modeled on Southeast Asia, most notably with respect to vegetation, topography, architecture, and names.\n\nThere are seven main playable characters in \"Final Fantasy X\", starting with Tidus, a cheerful young teenager and a star blitzball player from Zanarkand, who seeks a way home after an encounter with Sin transported him to Spira. To do so, he joins Yuna, a summoner on a journey to obtain the Final Aeon and defeat the enormous whale-like \"Sin\". Journeying with them are: Kimahri Ronso, a young warrior of the Ronso tribe who watched over Yuna during her childhood; Wakka, a blitzball player whose younger brother was killed by Sin; and Lulu, a stoic black mage close to Yuna and Wakka. During the journey, they are joined by Auron, a former warrior monk, who worked with both Tidus' and Yuna's fathers to defeat Sin 10 years prior; and Rikku, Yuna's cousin, a perky Al Bhed girl and the first friendly person Tidus meets upon arriving in Spira.\n\nTidus waits with his allies outside the ruins of an ancient city. He narrates the events that led to the present, spanning most of the game's storyline. It begins in his home city, the high-tech metropolis of Zanarkand, where he is a renowned blitzball player and son of the famous blitzball star, Jecht. During a blitzball tournament, the city is attacked by an immense creature that Auron, a man not originally from Zanarkand, calls \"Sin\". Sin destroys Zanarkand and takes Tidus and Auron to the world of Spira.\n\nUpon arriving in Spira, Tidus is rescued by Al Bhed salvagers, who speak a language that is foreign to Tidus. One of them, Rikku, speaks the same language as Tidus and reveals that Sin destroyed Zanarkand 1,000 years ago. After Sin attacks again, Tidus is separated from the divers and drifts to the tropical island of Besaid, where he meets Wakka, captain of the local blitzball team, and shows off his blitzball skills. Wakka introduces Tidus to Yuna, a young summoner about to go on a pilgrimage to obtain the Final Aeon and defeat Sin with her guardians Lulu, a mage of black magic, and Kimahri, a member of the Ronso tribe. Meanwhile, Tidus joins to help Wakka in the upcoming blitzball tournament to find a way back home. The party travels across Spira to gather aeons, defending against attacks by Sin and its \"offspring\" called Sinspawn. After the tournament, they are joined by Auron, who convinces Tidus to become Yuna's guardian. He reveals to Tidus that Yuna's father, Lord Braska; Tidus's father, Jecht; and himself made the same pilgrimage to defeat Sin ten years ago. Tidus thought his father had died at sea ten years earlier. Following another attack from Sin, they are joined by Rikku, later revealed to be Yuna's cousin.\n\nWhen the party arrives in the city of Guadosalam, the leader of the Guado, Seymour Guado, proposes to Yuna, saying that it will ease Spira's sorrow. At Macalania Temple, the group discovers a message from the spirit of Seymour's father, Lord Jyscal; he declares that he was killed by his own son, who now aims to destroy Spira. The group reunites with Yuna and kills Seymour in battle; soon afterward, Sin attacks, separating Yuna and sending the others to Bikanel Island. While searching for Yuna at the island's Al Bhed settlement, Tidus has an emotional breakdown when he learns that summoners die after summoning the Final Aeon, leading to his desire to find a way to defeat Sin while keeping Yuna alive. The group finds Yuna in Bevelle, where she is being forced to marry the unsent Seymour. They crash the wedding and escape with Yuna. The group heads toward the ruins of Zanarkand, seen in the introduction of the game.\n\nShortly before arriving, Tidus learns that he, Jecht, and the Zanarkand they hail from are summoned entities akin to aeons based on the original Zanarkand and its people. Long ago, the original Zanarkand battled Bevelle in a machina war, in which the former was defeated. Zanarkand's survivors became \"fayth\" so that they could use their memories of Zanarkand to create a new city in their image, removed from the reality of Spira. One thousand years after its creation, the fayth have become exhausted sustaining the \"Dream Zanarkand\", but are unable to stop due to Sin's influence.\n\nOnce they reach Zanarkand, Yunalesca—the first summoner to defeat Sin and unsent ever since—tells the group that the Final Aeon is created from the fayth of one close to the summoner. After defeating Sin, the Final Aeon kills the summoner and transforms into a new Sin, which has caused its cycle of rebirth to continue. Yuna decides against using the Final Aeon, due to the futile sacrifices it carries and the fact that Sin would still be reborn. Disappointed by their resolution, Yunalesca tries to kill Tidus' group, but she is defeated and vanishes, ending hope of ever attaining the Final Aeon. After the fight, the group learns that Yu Yevon, a summoner who lost his humanity and mind, is behind Sin's cycle of rebirth. This leads the group to infiltrate Sin's body to battle Seymour, and Jecht's imprisoned spirit. With Sin's host defeated, Tidus' group vanquishes Yu Yevon. Sin's cycle of rebirth ends, and the spirits of Spira's fayth are freed from their imprisonment. Auron, who had been revealed to be unsent, is sent to the Farplane. Dream Zanarkand and Tidus disappear, now that the freed fayth stopped the summoning. Afterward, in a speech to the citizens of Spira, Yuna resolves to help rebuild their world now that it is free of Sin. In a post-credits scene, Tidus awakens under water. He then swims towards the ocean surface, and the screen fades to white.\n\n\"Final Fantasy X\"s development began in 1999, costing approximately ¥4 billion (approximately US$ million in dollars) with a crew of over 100 people, most of whom worked on previous games in the series. Executive producer Hironobu Sakaguchi has stated that although he had concerns about the transition from 2D to 3D backgrounds, the voice acting, and the transition to real-time story-telling, the success of the \"Final Fantasy\" series can be attributed to constantly challenging the development team to try new things. Producer Yoshinori Kitase was also the chief director of \"Final Fantasy X\", while the direction of events, maps and battles was split up between Motomu Toriyama, Takayoshi Nakazato and Toshiro Tsuchida, respectively. The development of the script for the game took three to four months, with the same amount of time dedicated to the voice recording afterwards. Kazushige Nojima collaborated with Daisuke Watanabe, Toriyama and Kitase on writing the scenario for \"Final Fantasy X\". Nojima was particularly concerned with establishing a connection in the relationship between player and main character. Thus, he penned the story such that the player's progress through the world and growing knowledge about it is reflected in Tidus' own understanding and narration.\n\nCharacter designer Tetsuya Nomura has identified the South Pacific, Thailand and Japan as major influences on the cultural and geographic design of Spira, particularly concerning the geographic location of the southern Besaid and Kilika islands. He has also said that Spira deviates from the worlds of past \"Final Fantasy\" games in the level of detail incorporated, something he has expressed to have made a conscious effort to maintain during the design process. Kitase felt that if the setting went back to a medieval European fantasy, it would not seem to help the development team advance. While he was thinking of different world environments, Nojima suggested a fantasy world that incorporated Asian elements. Sub-character chief designer Fumi Nakashima's focus was to ensure that characters from different regions and cultures bore distinctive characteristics in their clothing styles, so that they could be quickly and easily identified as members of their respective sub-groups. For example, she has said that the masks and goggles of the Al Bhed give the group a \"strange and eccentric\" appearance, while the attire of the Ronso lend to them being able to easily engage in battle. Tidus' relationship with his father Jecht was based \"stories throughout the ages, such as the ancient Greek legends.\" This would eventually reveal the key of Sin's weakness and eventual defeat.\n\n\"Final Fantasy X\" features innovations in the rendering of characters' facial expressions, achieved through motion capture and skeletal animation technology. This technology allowed animators to create realistic lip movements, which were then programmed to match the speech of the game's voice actors. Nojima has revealed that the inclusion of voice acting enabled him to express emotion more powerfully than before, and he was therefore able to keep the storyline simple. He also said that the presence of voice actors led him to make various changes to the script, in order to match the voice actors' personalities with the characters they were portraying. The inclusion of voice, however, led to difficulties. With the game's cutscenes already programmed around the Japanese voice work, the English localization team faced the difficulty of establishing English-oriented dialogue and the obstacle of incorporating this modified wording with the rhythm and timing of the characters' lip movements. Localization specialist Alexander O. Smith noted that they had to keep the localized sound file within the duration of the original Japanese, as longer files would cause the game to crash. He described the process of fitting natural-sounding English speech into the game as \"something akin to writing four or five movies' worth of dialogue entirely in haiku form [and] of course the actors had to act, and act well, within those restraints.\"\n\nThe game was initially going to feature online elements, offered through Square's PlayOnline service. The features, however, were dropped during production, and online gaming would not become part of the \"Final Fantasy\" series until \"Final Fantasy XI\". Map director Nakazato wanted to implement a world map concept with a more realistic approach than that of the traditional \"Final Fantasy\" game, in line with the realism of the game's 3D backgrounds, as opposed to pre-rendered backgrounds. As a player of the games in the \"Final Fantasy\" series, battle director Tsuchida wanted to recreate elements he found interesting or entertaining, which eventually led to the removal of the \"Active Time Battle\" system, and instead, incorporated the strategy-focused \"Conditional Turn-Based Battle\" system. Originally, \"Final Fantasy X\" was going to feature wandering enemies visible on the field map, seamless transitions into battles, and the option for players to move around the landscape during enemy encounters. Battle art director Shintaro Takai has explained that it was his intention that battles in \"Final Fantasy X\" come across as a natural part of the story and not an independent element. However, due to hardware limitations, this idea was not used. Instead, a compromise was made, whereby some transitions from the field map to the battle map were made relatively seamless with the implementation of a motion blur effect that would happen at the end of an event scene. The desire for seamless transitions also led to the implementation of the new summoning system seen in the game. Kitase has explained that the purpose behind the Sphere Grid is to give players an interactive means of increasing their characters' attributes, such that they will be able to observe the development of those attributes firsthand. The developers experienced difficulty with the scene of Tidus and Yuna kissing, as they were not used to animating romance scenes. Visual Works director Kazuyuki Ikumori stated that this was due to the use of 3D models in the scene. Because of the negative response from female members of staff, the scene was remade multiple times.\n\n\"Final Fantasy X\" marks the first time regular series composer Nobuo Uematsu has had any assistance in composing the score for a game in the main series. His fellow composers for \"Final Fantasy X\" were Masashi Hamauzu and Junya Nakano. They were chosen for the soundtrack based on their ability to create music that was different from Uematsu's style while still being able to work together. PlayOnline.com first revealed that the game's theme song was completed in November 2000. As Square still had not revealed who would sing the song, GameSpot personally asked Uematsu, who jokingly answered \"It's going to be Rod Stewart.\"\n\nThe game features three songs with vocalized elements, including the J-pop ballad \"Suteki da ne\", which translates to \"Isn't it Wonderful?\". The lyrics were written by Kazushige Nojima, and the music was written by Uematsu. The song is performed by Japanese folk singer Rikki, whom the music team contacted while searching for a singer whose music reflected an Okinawan atmosphere. \"Suteki da ne\" is also sung in Japanese in the English version of \"Final Fantasy X\". Like \"Eyes on Me\" from \"Final Fantasy VIII\" and \"Melodies of Life\" from \"Final Fantasy IX\", an orchestrated version of \"Suteki da ne\" is used as part of the ending theme. The other songs with lyrics are the heavy metal opening theme, \"Otherworld\", sung in English by Bill Muir; and \"Hymn of the Fayth\", a recurring piece sung using Japanese syllabary.\n\nThe original soundtrack spanned 91 tracks on four discs. It was first released in Japan on August 1, 2001, by DigiCube, and was re-released on May 10, 2004, by Square Enix. In 2002, Tokyopop released a version of \"Final Fantasy X Original Soundtrack\" in North America entitled \"Final Fantasy X Official Soundtrack\", which contained 17 tracks from the original album on a single disc. Other related CDs include \"feel/Go dream: Yuna & Tidus\" which, released in Japan by DigiCube on October 11, 2001, featured tracks based on Tidus' and Yuna's characters. \"Piano Collections Final Fantasy X\", another collection of music from the game, and \"Final Fantasy X Vocal Collection\", a compilations of exclusive character dialogues and songs were both in Japan in 2002.\n\nThe Black Mages, a band led by Nobuo Uematsu that arranges music from \"Final Fantasy\" video games into a rock music style, have arranged three pieces from \"Final Fantasy X\". These are \"Fight With Seymour\" from their self-titled album, published in 2003, and \"Otherworld\" and \"The Skies Above\", both of which can be found on the album \"\", published in 2004. Uematsu continues to perform certain pieces in his \"Dear Friends: Music from Final Fantasy\" concert series. The music of \"Final Fantasy X\" has also appeared in various official concerts and live albums, such as \"20020220 Music from Final Fantasy\", a live recording of an orchestra performing music from the series including several pieces from the game. An odd note; the unreleased/promo CD-R (Instrumental) version of Madonna's \"What It Feels Like For A Girl\" done by Tracy Young was used in the blitzball sequences. Additionally, \"Swing de Chocobo\" was performed by the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic Orchestra for the \"Distant Worlds – Music from Final Fantasy\" concert tour, while \"Zanarkand\" was performed by the New Japan Philharmonic Orchestra in the \"Tour de Japon: Music from Final Fantasy\" concert series. Independent but officially licensed releases of \"Final Fantasy X\" music have been composed by such groups as Project Majestic Mix, which focuses on arranging video game music. Selections also appear on Japanese remix albums, called \"dojin music\", and on English remixing websites.\n\nThe Japanese version of \"Final Fantasy X\" included an additional disc entitled \"The Other Side of Final Fantasy\", which featured interviews, storyboards, and trailers for \"Blue Wing Blitz\", \"Kingdom Hearts\", and \"\", as well as the first footage of \"Final Fantasy XI\". An international version of the game was released in Japan as \"Final Fantasy X International\" in January 2002, and in PAL regions under its original title. It features content not available in the original NTSC releases, including battles with \"Dark\" versions of the game's aeons and an airship fight with the superboss \"Penance\". The Japanese release of \"Final Fantasy X International\" also includes \"Eternal Calm\", a 14-minute video clip bridging the story of \"Final Fantasy X\" with that of its sequel, \"Final Fantasy X-2\". The video clip was included in a bonus DVD for \"Unlimited Saga Collector's Edition\" under the name \"Eternal Calm, Final Fantasy X-2: Prologue\". It was first released in Europe on October 31, 2003, and featured English voice-overs.\n\nThe international and PAL versions include a bonus DVD called \"Beyond Final Fantasy\", a disc including interviews with the game's developers, and two of the game's English voice actors, James Arnold Taylor (Tidus) and Hedy Burress (Yuna). Also included are trailers for \"Final Fantasy X\" and \"Kingdom Hearts\", a concept and promotional art gallery for the game, and a music video of \"Suteki da ne\" performed by Rikki. In 2005, a compilation featuring \"Final Fantasy X\" and \"Final Fantasy X-2\" was released in Japan as \"Final Fantasy X/X-2 Ultimate Box\".\n\nSquare also produced various types of merchandise and several books, including \"The Art of Final Fantasy X\" and three \"Ultimania\" guides, a series of artbooks/strategy guides published by DigiCube in Japan. They feature original artwork from \"Final Fantasy X\", offer gameplay walkthroughs, expand upon many aspects of the game's storyline and feature several interviews with the game's designers. There are three books in the series: \"Final Fantasy X Scenario Ultimania\", \"Final Fantasy X Battle Ultimania\", and \"Final Fantasy X Ultimania Ω\". On December 18, 2012 the game was re-released as part of the \"Final Fantasy 25th Anniversary Ultimate Box\" release.\n\nOn September 13, 2011, Square Enix announced that \"Final Fantasy X\" would be re-released in high-definition for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita, in celebration of the game's 10-year anniversary. In January 2012, production of the game had started. Producer Yoshinori Kitase was once again involved in the production of the game, wishing to work on its quality. On February 18, 2013 the first footage of the PlayStation Vita version of \"Final Fantasy X HD\" was released, showing off HD models of Tidus, Yuna, Bahamut and Yojimbo. On March 19, it was confirmed that the PS3 version of the game would also include its sequel \"X-2\", and that it would be remastered in HD. The two HD remastered games for the PS3 were released under the title \"Final Fantasy X/X-2 HD Remaster\" on a single Blu-ray disc game, and was sold separately on game cartridges on Vita in Japan and sold together in North America, Europe & Australia as a set, with \"FFX\" being on a cartridge and \"FFX-2\" being included as a download voucher. Downloadable versions are available for both systems. Square Enix launched an official website for the two HD remastered titles in March 2013. The games contain all the content found in the \"International\" version, including \"Eternal Calm\" and \"Last Mission\". During the PlayStation China press conference that took place in Shanghai on December 11, 2014, Square Enix confirmed \"Final Fantasy X/X-2 HD Remaster\" would be released for the PlayStation 4 in Spring 2015. It was released in North America on May 12, Australia & Japan on May 14 and Europe on May 15, 2015. It included enhanced graphics in full HD (1080p), the option to switch to the original soundtrack and the ability to transfer save files from the PS3 & PS Vita versions. One year later on May 12, 2016, it was released for Microsoft Windows via Steam. It includes an auto-save feature, 5 game boosters, 3 parameter changes, the option to skip FMVs/cinematics, 4K resolution support, audio settings and graphic options.\n\nSquare expected the game to sell at least two million copies worldwide owing to the reduced PlayStation 2's fanbase, making it smaller than the last three released titles. However, within four days of its release in Japan, the game had sold over 1.4 million copies in pre-orders, which set a record for the fastest-selling console RPG. These figures exceeded the performances of \"Final Fantasy VII\" and \"IX\" in a comparable period, and \"Final Fantasy X\" became the first PlayStation 2 game to reach two million and four million sold copies. In October 2007, the game was listed as the 8th best-selling game for the PlayStation 2. \"Final Fantasy X\" sold over 2.26 million copies in Japan alone in 2001, and sold 6.6 million copies worldwide by January 2004. By July 2006, it had sold 2.3 million copies and earned $95 million in the United States(US$ million in ). \"Next Generation\" ranked it as the 11th highest-selling game launched for the PlayStation 2, Xbox or GameCube between January 2000 and July 2006 in that country. As of 2017, the PS2 version of the game has sold over 8 million copies worldwide.\n\nThe \"Ultimate Hits\" bargain reissue of the game in September 2005 sold over 131,000 copies in Japan by the end of 2006. In October 2013, Square Enix announced \"Final Fantasy X\" and its sequel \"Final Fantasy X-2\" have together sold over 14 million copies worldwide on PlayStation 2.\n\n\"Final Fantasy X\" received critical acclaim by the media. The Japanese video game magazine \"Famitsu\" and \"Famitsu PS2\" awarded the game a near-perfect 39/40 score. Another Japanese gaming magazine, \"The Play Station\", gave the game a score of 29/30. \"Famitsu\", \"Famitsu PS2\", and \"The Play Station\" expressed particularly favorable responses toward the game's storyline, graphics, and movies. The game maintains a 92 out of 100 on Metacritic. Producer Shinji Hashimoto stated that the overall reception to the game was \"excellent\", having received praise and awards from the media.\n\nIGN's David Smith offered praise for the voice actors and the innovations in gameplay, particularly with the revised battle and summon systems, the option to change party members during battle, and the character development and inventory management systems. They also felt that the game's graphics had improved on its predecessors in every way possible, and that the game as a whole was \"the best-looking game of the series [and] arguably the best-playing as well\". Greg Kasavin of GameSpot praised the game's storyline, calling it surprisingly complex, its ending satisfying, and its avoidance of role-playing game clichés commendable with Tidus viewed as an appealing protagonist. He also lauded the music, feeling it was \"diverse and well suited to the various scenes in the game\". Similarly, \"GamePro\" described its character building system and battle system as \"two of the best innovations in the series\". The visuals of the game were commended by GameSpy's Raymond Padilla, who referred to them as \"top-notch\", as well as giving praise to the character models, backgrounds, cutscenes, and animations. The voice casting was praised by Game Revolution who noted most of them were \"above average\" and called the music \"rich\".\n\n\"Edge\" rated the game considerably lower, criticizing many aspects of the game for being tedious and uninnovative and describing the dialogue as \"nauseating\", particularly panning Tidus. Andrew Reiner of \"Game Informer\" criticized the game's linearity and that players were no longer able to travel the world by chocobo or control the airship. Eurogamer's Tom Bramwell noted that the game's puzzle segments were \"depressing\" and \"superfluous\", and that although the Sphere Grid was \"a nice touch\", it took up too much of the game. The linearity of the game was positively commented on by \"GamePro\" who stated that a player would not be required to participate in side-quests or the mini-game to reach the game's conclusion, finding some of them unappealing. Game Revolution complained that cutscenes could not be skipped, some even being too long.\n\n\"Final Fantasy X\" received the Best Game Award from the Japan Game Awards for 2001–2002. In GameSpot's \"Best and Worst Awards\" from 2001, it came seventh in the category \"Top 10 Video Games of the Year\". Readers of \"Famitsu\" magazine voted it the best game of all time in early 2006. \"Final Fantasy X\" came in fifth on IGN's \"Top 25 PS2 Games of All Time\" list in 2007 and sixth in \"The Top 10 Best Looking PS2 Games of All Time\". In a similar list by GameSpy, the game took the 21st place. 1UP.com listed its revelation during the ending as the third-biggest video game spoiler, while IGN ranked the ending as the fifth best pre-rendered cutscene. In a Reader's Choice made in 2006 by IGN, it ranked as the 60th-best video game. It was also named one of the 20 essential Japanese role-playing games by Gamasutra. It also placed 43rd in \"Game Informer\"s list of \"The Top 200 Games of All Time\". In 2004, \"Final Fantasy X\" was listed as one of the best games ever made by GameFAQs, while in November 2005 it was voted as the 12th \"Best Game Ever\". In a general overview of the series, both GamesRadar and IGN listed \"Final Fantasy X\" as the fourth best game. At the sixth annual Interactive Achievement Awards in 2003, it was nominated for \"Outstanding Achievement in Animation\" and \"Console Role-Playing Game of the Year\". At the end of 2007, it was named the ninth best-selling RPG by \"Guinness World Records\". Readers from GameFaqs also voted it as Game of the Year during 2001. In 2008, readers of \"Dengeki\" magazine voted it the second best game ever made. It was voted first place in \"Famitsu\"s and \"Dengeki\"s polls of most tear-inducing games of all time. Both Tidus and Yuna have been popular characters in games in general due to their personalities and their romantic relationship.\n\nDue to its commercial and critical success, Square Enix released a direct sequel to \"Final Fantasy X\" in 2003, titled \"Final Fantasy X-2\". The sequel is set two years after the conclusion of \"Final Fantasy X\", establishing new conflicts and dilemmas and resolving loose ends left by the original game. Although the sequel did not sell as well as the original, 5.29 million units versus 8 million units, it can still be considered a commercial success. As a result of the title's popularity, Yoshinori Kitase and Kazushige Nojima decided to establish a plot-related connection between \"Final Fantasy X\" and \"Final Fantasy VII\", another well-received\" Final Fantasy\" game. In 2013, after the release of the HD Remaster, Nojima stated that he would like to see a second sequel to \"X\", and if there were demand for it, it could happen. The minigame of blitzball has made it into other games, such as \"Final Fantasy X-2\", and was mentioned as a possibility for \"\".\n\nThe advancements in portraying realistic emotions achieved with \"Final Fantasy X\" through voice-overs and detailed facial expressions have since become a staple of the series, with \"Final Fantasy X-2\" and other subsequent titles (such as \"\", \"Final Fantasy XII\", \"XIII\" and its sequels, and \"XV\") also featuring this development. Traversing real-time 3D environments instead of an overworld map has also become a standard of the series. Final Fantasy X can be considered a pioneer in 3-D RPG maps.\n\nTakeo Kujiraoka, director from \"Dissidia Final Fantasy NT\", regarded \"Final Fantasy X\" as his favorite game from the franchise based on its emotional impact on the players as well as the multiple amount of playable content that surpasses 100 hours.\n\n"}
{"id": "459170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459170", "title": "Flag of Lebanon", "text": "Flag of Lebanon\n\nThe flag of Lebanon () is formed of two horizontal red stripes enveloping a horizontal white stripe. The white stripe is twice the height ( width ) of the red ones (ratio 1:2:1)—a Spanish fess. The green cedar (Lebanon Cedar) in the middle touches each of the red stripes and its width is one third of the width of the flag.\n\nThe Presence and position of the Cedar in the middle of the flag is directly inspired by the mountains of Lebanon cedar (Cedrus libani). The Cedar is a symbol of holiness, eternity and peace. As an emblem of longevity, the cedar of Lebanon has its origin in many biblical references.\n\nThe cedar of Lebanon is mentioned seventy-seven times in the Bible, especially in the book Psalms chapter 92 verse 13 where it says that \"The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree, He shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon\" and Chapter 104, verse 16, where it is stated: \"[t]he trees of the Lord are well watered, the cedars of Lebanon that he planted\".\n\nAlphonse de Lamartine (1790-1869), marveling at the cedars of Lebanon during his trip to the Orient with his daughter Julia, had these words: \"[t]he cedars of Lebanon are the relics of centuries and nature, the most famous natural landmarks in the universe. They know the history of the earth, better than the story itself\".\n\nAntoine de Saint-Exupéry (1900-1944), who loved the cedars and also had visited Lebanon in 1935, wrote in his work Citadel \"[t]he peace is a long growing tree. We need, as the cedar, to rock its unity\".\n\nIn 1920, in a text of the proclamation of the State of Greater Lebanon, it was said: \"[a]n evergreen cedar is like a young nation despite a cruel past. Although oppressed, never conquered, the cedar is its rallying. By the union, it will break all attacks\".\n\nThe white color on the flag represents the snow as a symbol of purity and peace.\n\nThe two red stripes refer to the Lebanese blood shed to preserve the country against the successive invaders.\n\nAccording to the Article 5 of the constitution of Lebanon: \"The Lebanese flag shall be composed of three horizontal stripes, a white stripe between two red ones. The width of the white stripe shall be equal to that of both red stripes. In the center of and occupying one-third of the white stripe is a green cedar tree with its top touching the upper red strip and its base touching the lower red stripe\".\n\nThrough history, Lebanon, or at least its region, had taken the flag of the people who occupied it (Mamluk, Ottoman Empire)\n\nDuring the French Mandate of Lebanon, the Lebanese flag was designed by the president of the Lebanese Renaissance Movement, the late Naoum Mokarzel. It was similar to the tricolour flag of France but with a green cedar (Lebanon Cedar) in the middle.\nThe present Lebanese flag was adopted just prior to independence from France in 1943. Seeking independence, the actual flag was first drawn by member of parliament Henri Pharaon in the Chamber of deputies Saeb Salam's house in Mousaitbeh by the deputies of the Lebanese parliament. It was adopted on December 7, 1943, during a meeting in the parliament, where the article 5 in the Lebanese constitution was modified.\n\nOne theory is that since Henri Pharaon was a long-time consul in Vienna, Austria and was an avid friend and founder of the \"Austro-Lebanese Association of Friendship\", the colors could have been inspired by the red-white-red Flag of Austria, where the flag colors are based on the Lebanese geography and therefore, the first red represents the Mount Lebanon and the second red represents the Anti-Lebanon mountains and the white represents the Beqaa Valley, which is situated in the middle of the two mountain ranges on the map of Lebanon. And the green cedar (Lebanon Cedar) in the middle of the white part touches each of the red stripes is added because Lebanon is sometimes metonymically referred to as the Land of the Cedars. The Austrian flag is the second oldest in the world, dating to the 13th century when it first probably appeared after the Siege of Acre during the Third Crusade. The colors could have been inspired by the red-white-red Flag of Austria, but the white stripe (a Spanish fess) could have been inspired by the red-yellow-red Flag of Spain, where the flag structure is based on the Lebanese connection to the Mediterranean sea and its Phoenician past that reached to the Mediterranean shores of present-day Spain.\n\nThe following is a list of variant flags used in Lebanon\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31764147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31764147", "title": "Funeral of St. Jerome (Filippo Lippi)", "text": "Funeral of St. Jerome (Filippo Lippi)\n\nThe Funeral of St. Jerome is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippo Lippi of Saint Jerome's funeral. It is housed in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo next to the Cathedral of Prato, central Italy.\n\nThe large altarpiece was commissioned by the provost of Prato, Geminiano Inghirami, a patron of the arts who also called Donatello and Michelozzo to work in the cathedral. The panel is dated 1440, but this has been always considered a false due to the large stylistic differences with other Lippi's works of the period. It is generally recognized to be from between 1452, when Lippi arrived in Prato (or a few years before), and Inghirami's death in 1460.\n\nIt is housed in the cathedral's museum since the 20th century.\n\nThe work features numerous characters, painted in different attitudes. In the center, lying on a catafalque with a precious cloth decorated with pomegranates, is the body of St. Jerome. He is surrounded by a group of monks, whose faces show their mourning and despair for the saint's death. The pomegranate cloth is also visible in the funerary monument of Geminiano Inghirami, once in the church of San Francesco, attributed to Pasquino da Montepulciano (1460).\n\nThe mourner's faces show that Lippi had studied Giotto's work in the Bardi Chapel, as some gestures are very similar, such as that of the monks kissing the saint's feet or the one raising his hands. Also the saint's position is similar to Giotto's, as well as the presence of ancient numismatic, a widespread theme at the time.\n\nIn the foreground is Inghirami kneeling, with a crippled youth in front of him who points at Jerome's body (a trick to avoid that the donor's red garments could distract the observer). The crippled figure is inspired by the frescoes by Masaccio and Masolino da Panicale in the Brancacci Chapel, which Lippi knew well as he had a been a monk in the convent housing the chapel in his youth.\n\nThe upper part of the panel, aside from rocky mountains with three secondary scenes (Adoration of the Child and two episodes of the saint's life), is occupied by angels, perhaps executed by Fra' Diamante or another collaborator. Among them circles which allude to the Heaven's Circles, the Redeemer (with a book with Alpha and Omega), the Holy Spirit dove and the Jesus opening his arms.\n\nAt the bottom is the coat of arms of the Inghirami family.\n"}
{"id": "1009410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1009410", "title": "Geographical segregation", "text": "Geographical segregation\n\nGeographical segregation exists whenever the proportions of population rates of two or more populations are not homogenous throughout a defined space. Populations can be considered any plant or animal species, human genders, followers of a certain religion, people of different nationalities, ethnic groups, etc.\n\nIn social geography segregation of ethnic groups, social classes and genders is often measured by the calculation of indices such as the index of dissimilarity. Different dimensions of segregation (or its contrary) are recognised: exposure, evenness, clustering, concentration, centralisation, etc. More recent studies also highlight new local indices of segregation.\n\nSegregation, as a broad concept, has appeared in all parts of the world where people exist—in different contexts and times it takes on different forms, shaped by the physical and human environments. The spatial concentration of population groups is not a new phenomenon. Since societies began to form there have been segregated inhabitants. Either segregated purposefully by force, or gradually over time, segregation was based on socio-economic, religious, educational, linguistic or ethnic grounds. Some groups choose to be segregated to strengthen social identity.\n\nSegregation can be caused by legal frameworks, such as in the extreme example of apartheid in South Africa, and even Jewish ghettoization in Germany in the 20th century. Segregation can also happen slowly, stimulated by increased land and housing prices in certain neighborhoods, resulting in segregation of rich and poor in many urban cities. Segregation can also be assigned arbitrarily. This can occur on a global scale, such as is seen in the Partition of India, instances in Ireland, and many other situations. Geographical boundaries were often put in place without much consideration for native peoples and natural geographic terrain and cultural limits that had long been in place.\n\nIn apartheid South Africa, segregation was very much a legal concept. Enforced by the government, Africans were discriminated against, and forced to comply with apartheid. Some of the legislation passed dealt with physical segregation in schools, land tenure, geographic segregation and state repression. These were very clearly legislative, but also in the case of most white South Africans, a social construct as well.\n\nSegregation can also be encouraged, using geographical boundaries, while not explicitly enforced. Public housing projects, especially in the United States, have been criticized for this. Putting cheap housing in poor black neighborhoods encouraged local African-Americans to stay in the area, keeping other richer areas white by not building public housing there. This has been changing in the last ten years.\n\nSegregation can also be caused by social factors that become evident as they happen, but are not necessarily government sanctioned. This could be things like informal ghettos, or simply rich neighborhoods. In terms of land capital, over time in a given area, humans will settle down and buy or take land. Some privileged people will acquire better land (that is, more arable, proximate to potential capital, more pleasing views). Demand for these nicer habitats drives up prices, and areas deemed “better” based solely on geography become inherently exclusionary in their population makeup.\n\nWest Point Grey, an area of Vancouver Canada, is in part rich because of the views offered of Downtown Vancouver, the Gulf Islands, and its location near the water and University of British Columbia. Wealthy people had the resources to pay for advantages, and subsequently drove up prices. Examples of this can be seen all over the world. Geographical segregation is not defined by the sightline of places, though. It also occurs around certain structures, or simply in areas that are specifically developed with an income bracket in mind.\n\nAnother segregation term, the ghetto, has been used in many different contexts over time, generally meaning any physical part of a city predominantly occupied by any particular group of people. It implies that the group may be looked down upon and segregated purposefully. This does not mean that all ghettos are built up communities and buildings specifically for a segregation purpose, although many are. In the case of the United States, segregation of the African-American community was to a degree due to white flight out of the cities, than forcing African-Americans to live in the downtown cores.\n\nGated communities could be seen as a combination of both legal frameworks and social conventions regarding segregation. A gated community today is a controlled neighborhood, inhabited by people with common interests, such as safety, or class separation, but not necessarily of the same ethnicity or religion—it is distinct from an international community (in most cases). Gated communities are very controversial, as they can be seen as encouraging distinction and separation, and therefore superiority from those who do not live with the gates community.\n\nVoluntary segregation is almost as common an occurrence as involuntary segregation is. Often, immigrants coming to a new and foreign country will band together for mutual benefit, and to keep a sense of community in the new country. These can be called ethnic enclaves and can be formed by any community or people group. Some well-known groups are Chinatowns, Little Italys and \"barrios\". These localized phenomena also come in the form of ethnoburbs, which are essentially the same concept as an ethnic enclave, but specifically located in suburbs, rather than the traditional downtowns, where Chinatowns and Little Italys are usually based.\n\n"}
{"id": "56248774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56248774", "title": "Heroic lay", "text": "Heroic lay\n\nThe heroic lay is a genre of Germanic epic poetry characteristic of the Migration Period and the Early Middle Ages. A lay is a short narrative poem of between 80 and 200 lines concerning a single heroic episode in the life of a warrior from Germanic legend. It is distinct from the heroic epic (Beowulf, Nibelungenlied) which combines a sequence of episodes into a longer narrative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24150040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24150040", "title": "History of music in the biblical period", "text": "History of music in the biblical period\n\nKnowledge of the biblical period is mostly from literary references in the Bible and post-biblical sources. Religion and music historian Herbert Lockyer, Jr. writes that \"music, both vocal and instrumental, was well cultivated among the Hebrews, the New Testament Christians, and the Christian church through the centuries.\" He adds that \"a look at the Old Testament reveals how God's ancient people were devoted to the study and practice of music, which holds a unique place in the historical and prophetic books, as well as the Psalter.\"\n\nThe music of religious ritual was first used by King David, and, according to the \"Larousse Encyclopedia of Music\", he is credited with confirming the men of the Tribe of Levi as the \"custodians of the music of the divine service.\" Historian Irene Hesk notes that of the twenty-four books of the Old Testament, the 150 Psalms in the Book of Psalms ascribed to King David, have served as \"the bedrock of Judeo-Christian hymnology,\" concluding that \"no other poetry has been set to music more often in Western civilization.\"\n\nThe study of ancient musical instruments has been practiced for centuries with some researchers studying instruments from Israel/Palestine dating to the \"biblical period.\" Archaeological and written data have demonstrated clearly that music was an integral part of daily life in ancient Israel/Palestine. Figurines and iconographic depictions show that people played chordophones and frame drums, and that the human voice was essential as women and men sang love songs along with laments for the deceased. Data also describes outdoor scenes of music and dancing in sometimes prophetic frenzies, often with carefully orchestrated and choreographed musicians and singers within specially built structures.\n\nAccording to ancient music historian Theodore Burgh, \"If we were able to step into the . . . biblical period, we would find a culture filled with music . . . where people used music in their daily lives.\" \"Such music was capable of expressing a great variety of moods and feelings or the broadly marked antitheses of joy and sorrow, hope and fear, faith and doubt. In fact, every shade and quality of sentiment are found in the wealth of songs and psalms and in the diverse melodies of the people.\"\n\nEgypt was among the oldest cultures of the Near East and had a highly developed musical culture dating back to around 3000 BC. Egyptian sources, however, include only pictorial relics, some instruments, and a few literary records concerned with performance practices. On various pieces of sculpture there are reliefs of harpists and flutists taking part in religious ceremonies and social entertainments.\n\nA number of instruments have been identified as being used in Egypt, including the lyre (a type of harp), an oboe-like instrument, various drums from Asia, the lute and the sistrum (rattle). Murals showing singers and instrumentalist performing have also been found. According to music historian Homer Ulrich, it is likely that Egypt influenced the \"educational and ethical aspects of Greek music.\" Stephen Batuk equally observed that the historical link of music was consummated during the week of creation where birds in the air make sounds which could be seen as music.\n\nAlthough records are minimal, it is known that between 3000 and 2300 BC organized temple music with singers existed in Sumer and Babylonia, the oldest cultural groups in Mesopotamia. Excavations have uncovered several musical instruments, including harps, lutes, double oboes, and a few others.\n\nBecause of the political interrelations between the Hebrews and the Semitic nations of Babylonia, Assyria, and the Hittite empire, there were similarities between the Hebrew music of the Judean people and the others. Jewish music began in the early years of tribal life, and the \"references to music in the Bible are numerous,\" writes Ulrich. After the Hebrews established a kingdom in Israel, their musical activities were to increase substantially.\n\nAccording to music historian Abraham Schwadron, \"probably the most important musical contribution of the ancient Hebrews was the elevation of the status of liturgical music in union with ritual ceremonies.\" He notes the \"high degree of musico-liturgical organization\" from the descriptive accounts of King Solomon's Temple, such as the 24 choral groups consisting of 288 musicians which took part in 21 weekly services.\n\nDespite the similar instruments used by the Hebrews which were also used in neighboring cultures, including Phoenicia, Egypt, Assyria, and Greece, Schwadron writes that \"it would be accurate to state that . . . it is in the particular uses of music—sacred and secular, ethical and aesthetical—that ancient Jewish music made a unique contribution.\n\nMusic historian John Stainer notes that the earlier relationship between Abraham and the Canaanites \"in all probability influenced future Hebrew music,\" and which probably caused his posterity to carry a certain amount of Assyrian music or musical instruments into Egypt. He adds that a stay of four centuries \"in so civilized a culture as Egypt must have largely added to their knowledge of the art.\"\n\nAlthough the ancient music of the Psalms and the other Bible books (which were all chanted), is often thought to be lost, the Masoretic text of the Hebrew Bible contains cantillation marks indicating a melodic line for the words. Following the French archaeomusicologist Suzanne Haik-Vantoura, some authorities now argue that these cantillation marks date from temple times and record the music sung in the temple. Attempts have been made to decipher them in modern musical notation.\n\nThe musical traditions of the Temple were rudely broken by the destruction of the First Temple and the exile of the Jews in Babylon during the 6th century BC. Hindley notes that most of the psalms seem to have been written in the years after the return of the Jews to Jerusalem. At this time too the practice of antiphonal singing between the cantor and the congregation seems to have become common.\n\nThe music of ancient Israel represents almost fourteen centuries of change, roughly from 1300 BC to 70 AD, when Titus' siege of Jerusalem took place. Stainer points out the lack of many artifacts during this period. He concludes that the \"sad lack of national monuments relating to the Jews is not surprising, when it is remembered that Jerusalem stood about seventeen sieges, each of which was accompanied by more or less destruction, and that, too, at the hands of victors who seemed to take a malicious delight in effacing the national characteristics of those they conquered.\"\n\nHowever, after the fall of the First Temple, Werner states that the fabric of dreams spun about its earlier music included reminiscences, visions, and fantasies, as the Rabbis took pains to eradicate both its choral and instrumental traditions. \"Their time had arrived, and their ideas on liturgy and music were radically different from those of the Temple priests.\" Werner finds it paradoxical that modern day rabbis continue to praise the instrumental music of the Temple but prohibit any and all instrumental music in their synagogues today.\n\nThe destruction of the Second Temple in 70 AD led to the collapse of the Hebrew nation and the beginning of the Diaspora (dispersion or exile) of Jews to other lands, such as Spain, Italy, and the Rhineland. In these places, the synagogue would replace the destroyed Temple, with new liturgical services, prayers, and rabbinical writings oriented to mourning the loss of both the Temple and personal freedom.\n\nVery little is known about primitive Christian music, notes Whitcomb, because like most of the ancient, it was unwritten. As a result, as songs passed from generation to generation, they grew very different from the original. However, she notes that \"much of this early music derived its beauty from the Greeks and its holiness from the Hebrews.\" According to Ulrich, Hebrew music \"was of direct and immediate influence on the musical practices of the early Christian church.\" He cites Werner in noting that \"the connections between Hebrew and Christian chant have been scientifically investigated and proved.\"\n\nThe musical art of the Levites, the Temple musicians who were named after their historic ancestors, was lost by the end of the 1st century. In 70 AD the Second Temple was destroyed by the troops of the Emperor Titus and in the years following the Levites along with the majority of Jews fled from Palestine. As a result, the synagogue music of the Dispersion lost the joyful character of that of the Temple and the large instrumental forces were dispensed with.\n\nThe New Testament was not written until centuries later than the old and the music had attained much higher development, according to music historian Ida Whitcomb. As it related to Christ, it is called Christian music. However, there are but few allusions to it in three of the Gospels: in the Gospel of Luke, there are the \"Angels' Song,\" Mary's \"Magnificat,\" and Zacharias's \"Song.\" In Acts, Paul and Silas sing behind prison-bars: the prison is shaken, the doors fly open, and they are free. In the Epistles, there are but few references to music, but in Ephesians there is a \"beautiful one,\" in which Paul exhorts the churches to sing \"Psalms\" and \"spiritual songs.\"\n\nHindley adds that antiphonal chants between cantor or priest and the congregation originated in Hebrew worship methods. At its peak around the beginning of the Christian era, the elaborate music of the Temple was performed by a large choir of highly trained men singers, with boys sometimes added, and during this period many instruments also were used by the Temple orchestra.\n\nWhitcomb adds that many of our noblest Church hymns have been suggested by the Psalms, which she notes was \"the first hymn-book of the Hebrew nation and remains today not only the hymn-book of the Hebrew Temple, but also of the Christian Church.\"\n\nAmong the earliest pictographic signs found have been of a boat-shaped harp found on a Sumerian clay tablet dating back to 3000 BC, and an earlier depiction of this harp was also found in modern southwest Iran dating around 3200 BC.\nMany relics of musical instruments have been found in Palestine dating from the Hellenistic age giving details about the state, character, and practice of liturgical music. In other cases, many musical instruments of the Hebrews mentioned in the Bible are identified by analogy with similar instruments found in other nearby cultures, such as Egypt and Babylonia. An example of some instruments mentioned in the bible can be found in Daniel 3:5:\nAccording to Jewish historian Josephus Flavius, all details of the First Temple, including its musical instruments, were made and viewed as \"symbols of the universe,\" especially instruments like the kithara or lyre. In his \"Antiquities of the Jews\", Josephus explains that the musical instruments, along with other matters of Jewish religion, represent a perishable \"image\" of the cosmos, or of \"a cosmic Temple.\"\n\nLockyer notes that according to the Scriptures, Jubal was the father of harpists and organists (Gen. 4:20–21). He points out that the harp was among the chief instruments and the favorite of David, and its use is found more than fifty times in the Bible. It was used at both joyful and mournful ceremonies, and its use was \"raised to its highest perfection under David\" (1 Sam. 16:23). Lockyer adds that \"It was the sweet music of the harp that often dispossessed Saul of his melancholy (1 Sam. 16:14–23; 18:10–11). When the Jews were captive in Babylon they hung their harps up and refused to use them while in exile, earlier being part of the instruments used in the Temple (1 Kgs. 10:12).\n\nAnother stringed instrument of the harp class, and one also used by the ancient Greeks, was the lyre. A similar instrument was the lute, which had a large pear-shaped body, long neck, and fretted fingerboard with head screws for tuning. Coins displaying musical instruments, Bar Kochba Revolt coinage, were issued by the Jews during the Second Jewish Revolt against the Roman Empire of 132–135 AD \n\nIn addition to those, there was the psaltery, another stringed instrument which is referred to almost thirty times in Scripture. According to Josephus, it had twelve strings and was played with a quill, not with the hand. Another writer suggested that it was like a guitar, but with a flat triangular form and strung from side to side.\n\nAmong the wind instruments used in the biblical period were the cornet, flute, horn, organ, pipe, and trumpet.\n\nThere were also silver trumpets and the double oboe. Werner concludes that from the measurements taken of the trumpets on the Arch of Titus in Rome and from coins, that \"the trumpets were very high pitched with thin body and shrill sound.\" He adds that in \"War of the Sons of Light Against the Sons of Darkness\", a manual for military organization and strategy discovered among the Dead Sea Scrolls, these trumpets \"appear clearly capable of regulating their pitch pretty accurately, as they are supposed to blow rather complicated signals in unison.\"\n\nWhitcomb writes that the pair of silver trumpets were fashioned according to Mosaic law and were probably among the trophies which the Emperor Titus brought to Rome when he conquered Jerusalem. She adds that on the Arch raised to the victorious Titus, \"there is a sculptured relief of these trumpets, showing their ancient form. (see photo)\n\nThe flute was commonly used for festal and mourning occasions, according to Whitcomb. \"Even the poorest Hebrew was obliged to employ two flute-players to perform at his wife's funeral.\"\n\nThe shofar (the horn of a ram) is still used for special liturgical purposes such as the Jewish New Year services in Jewish communities. As such, it is not considered a musical instrument but an instrument of theological symbolism which has been intentionally kept to its primitive character. In ancient times it was used for warning of danger, to announce the new moon or beginning of Sabbath, or to announce the death of a notable. \"In its strictly ritual usage it carried the cries of the multitude to God,\" writes Werner.\n\nAmong the percussion instruments were bells, cymbals, sistrum, tabret, hand drums, and tambourines. Percussion instruments are those producing tones by being struck in various ways and have been used by bands and orchestras throughout history.\n\nThe tabret, or timbrel, was a small hand-drum used for festive occasions, and was considered a woman's instrument. In modern times it was often used by the Salvation Army. According to the Bible, when the children of Israel came out of Egypt and crossed the Red Sea, \"Miriam took a timbrel in her hands; and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dance.\"\n\nWhitcomb writes that \"much of the most beautiful music of the Bible is contained in the Psalms,\" and the word \"psalm\" comes from the Greek word meaning \"to sing, to strike lyre.\" The psalter or psaltery was one of the instruments which accompanied the Psalm. The word soon came to signify any form of melody. The psalms were sung antiphonally or responsively, perhaps by the priest and congregation, or by two choruses.\n\nAccording to Shiloah, most of the customs and ceremonies mentioned earlier, such as weddings or other celebrations, were accompanied by music made by women and attests to the importance of women's songs. But there were many instances where women sang alone or with friends and family. \"The woman fortifies her spirit by singing to herself, and perhaps to her infant, who hears and absorbs the mother's confessions, longings, complaints, and dreams.\" There were also \"mother-songs, soldier-songs, grass-widow-songs, orphan-songs, and woman's-trade-songs.\" According to some, writes Shiloah, women's songs existed because of the need to compensate for the ban against public participation of women in synagogue rituals.\n\nAncient music historian Joachim Braun notes that Philo had mentioned ritualist vigils near Alexandria, that included a meal and the singing of hymns by a double chorus as accompaniment to the processions and libations.\n\nAccording to biblical historian Amnon Shiloah, dance was directly associated with music and was an important aspect of various events, although the actual dance movements are nowhere described in detail. There is meager evidence about dance when compared with a wider variety found in Egypt. However, there are many biblical descriptions of occasions that inspired dancing in biblical times.\n\nIn the Bible, Mishnah, and Talmud, dance is referred to in various contexts, and in Megido, the Negev, and other sites in Israel, recently found iconographic remnants show dancing figures. In Judg. 21:21, a festival is described during which it was customary to dance in the vineyards. Dancing was also associated with celebrations of military victories and for welcoming home heroes. In Exod. 15:20, Miriam and the other women burst into song and dance accompanied by drums to mark the parting of the Red Sea which saved the people of Israel; Jephtah's daughter danced to meet her father returning from victorious battles (Judg. 11:34); the women of Israel came out to dance before Saul and David upon their return from fighting the Philistines (1 Sam. 18:6); the king and his subjects were also inspired to dance when the Ark of the Covenant was brought up to Jerusalem (2 Sam. Ch. 6).\n\nThe Bible mentions many uses of music including songs of praise, songs of victory, songs of mourning, and above all the Psalms. Dances were also a common music expression along with the combination of singing with instrumental music. During later times there was also a purely vocal music which prevailed for a period. According to Ulrich, music played an important part in both the secular and the religious life of the Hebrews. Kings and other leaders of the people were customarily acclaimed in songs and fanfares, and very elaborate musical services in the Temple, described in the Bible, were important parts of worship. There are, for instance, descriptions in the Bible of an orchestra consisting of nine lutes, two harps, and a cymbal. In other parts there are accounts of all-women choirs combined with singing and dancing to the men's percussion accompaniment. Werner adds that the choir's repertoire consisted of psalms, canticles, and other poetic passages from Scripture, although it may have contained some noncanonical texts. The choice of psalms is said to have been determined by God's activities on the first seven days of creation, and the verses which allude to them.\n\nWerner writes that \"unique in the history of music is the firm belief in the purifying and sin-atoning power of the Temple's music, ascribed to both chant and instruments.\" The music had to be free from blemish or fault, and avoided magical elements. Even the High Priest's garment had symbolism: (Exod. 28:34–35): \"a golden bell and a pomegranate, round about on the skirts of the robe . . . and its sound shall be heard when he goes into the holy place before the Lord . . . \" According to Philo and Josephus, the bells represented symbols of cosmic harmony.\n\nAccording to the text of the Mishna, the early musicians, both singers and instrumentalists, were strictly trained to be professional musicians with their average training lasting five years. Bible historian Alfred Sendrey notes a \"sudden and unexplained upsurge of large choirs and orchestras, consisting of thoroughly organized and trained musical groups, which would be virtually inconceivable without lengthy, methodical preparation.\" This has led some scholars to believe that the prophet Samuel was the patriarch of a school which taught not only prophets and holy men, but also sacred-rite musicians. This public music school, perhaps the earliest in recorded history, was not restricted to a priestly class—which is how the shepherd boy David appears on the scene as a minstrel to King Saul.\" :\"\n\nDifferent types of music were also defined: \n\nMusical notation in the modern sense did not exist during this period. However, the Hebrew alphabet allows for special symbols to indicate how the music was to be performed. The alphabet consists of consonants and half-consonants, and vowels are indicated by dots and dashes above and below letter symbols. In addition to the vowel signs, a number of other signs, called \"masoretic,\" refers not to single notes but to \"melodic particles or groups,\" writes Ulrich. These particles were handed down by oral tradition among singers for centuries and were first codified in the 16th century. Ulrich notes that the \"Dead Sea Scrolls contain signs similar to those in the liturgical script of early Christian sects . . . strengthening the conjecture that a common musical heritage is shared by the people of related cultures . . .\"\n\nMusic historian William Smoldon notes that despite the fact that instrumental music was not revived and used in the synagogue after the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 AD, (excluding the symbolic Shofar still used in orthodox communities,) \"the chant continued, and of late years research has made it increasingly clear that many of the forms and even melodic patterns of the Byzantine and Western Christian chants were adaptations from the music of the synagogues.\"\n\nHe also notes that after the collapse of the Western Roman Empire, the \"one steadfast feature was the Western Christian Church\" which was \"respected by the barbarians.\" He adds that there seems \"little doubt that the worship-music of the early Church, i.e. at such centres as Jerusalem, Damascus, Antioch and Alexandria, grew from materials . . . of Greek and Syrian origins, together with the service-chants of the Jewish synagogue.\"\n\nThe Psalms have been sung through all the ages up to the present. Whitcomb describes the importance of the Psalms:\n\nLockyer writes that Charles V, the Holy Roman Emperor and champion of the pope, requested passages from his favorite psalm, Ps. 90, be read to him as he lay on his deathbed in September 1558. In that psalm, \"Moses contrasts the eternity of God with the transience of human life, and Moses ends his song with a prayer for God's forgiveness and favor.\"(Ps 90:1–6)\n"}
{"id": "50897216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50897216", "title": "Human uses of mammals", "text": "Human uses of mammals\n\nHuman uses of mammals include both practical uses, such as for food, sport, and transport, and symbolic uses, such as in art and mythology. Mammals have played a crucial role in creating and sustaining human culture. Domestication of mammals was instrumental in the Neolithic development of agriculture and of civilisation, causing farming to replace hunting and gathering around the world, and cities to replace scattered communities.\n\nMammals provide dairy products and much of the meat eaten by the human population, whether farmed or hunted. They also yielded leather and wool for clothing and equipment. Until the arrival of mechanised transport, domesticated mammals provided a large part of the power used for work and transport. They serve as models in biological research, such as in genetics, and in drug testing.\n\nMammals are the most popular of pets, with tens of millions of dogs, cats and other animals including rabbits and mice kept by families around the world. Mammals such as horses and deer are among the earliest subjects of art, being found in the Upper Paleolithic cave paintings such as at Lascaux. Major artists such as Albrecht Dürer, George Stubbs and Edwin Landseer are known for their portraits of animals. Animals further play a wide variety of roles in literature, film, mythology, and religion.\n\nA major way that people relate to mammals (and some other animals) is by anthropomorphising them, ascribing human emotions and goals to them. This has been deprecated when it occurs in science, though more recently zoologists have taken a more lenient view of it.\n\nCulture consists of the social behaviour and norms found in human societies and transmitted through social learning. Cultural universals in all human societies include expressive forms like art, music, dance, ritual, religion, and technologies like tool usage, cooking, shelter, and clothing. The concept of material culture covers physical expressions such as technology, architecture and art, whereas immaterial culture includes principles of social organization, mythology, philosophy, literature, and science. This article describes the roles played by mammals in human culture, so defined.\n\nCharles Darwin, Jared Diamond and others have noted the importance of domesticated mammals in the neolithic development of agriculture and of civilisation, causing farmers to replace hunter-gatherers around the world. This transition from hunting and gathering to herding flocks and growing crops was a major step in human history. The new agricultural economies, based on domesticated mammals, caused \"radical restructuring of human societies, worldwide alterations in biodiversity, and significant changes in the Earth's landforms and its atmosphere... momentous outcomes\".\n\nDiamond observed that the large mammals that were domesticated were unusual in sharing a set of desirable characteristics. They consumed a diet that humans could readily supply; they grew rapidly and gave birth frequently; they had a mild disposition; they were willing to breed in captivity; they had convenient herd dominance hierarchies; and they remained calm in enclosures. Carlos Driscoll and colleagues reached a similar conclusion, observing that \"it was intelligently designed changes to the genetic composition of natural biota that made the real tools. In some sense, Neolithic farmers were the first geneticists and domestic agriculture was the lever with which they moved the world.\" Driscoll and colleagues list recurring characteristics of domesticated mammals as \"dwarfs and giants, piebald coat color, wavy or curly hair, fewer vertebrae, shorter tails, rolled tails, and floppy ears or other manifestations of neoteny.\"\n\nMammals form a large part of the livestock raised for meat and dairy products across the world, whether intensively farmed or by more or less mobile pastoralism. They include (2011) around 1.4 billion cattle, 1.2 billion sheep, 1 billion domestic pigs, and (1985) over 700 million rabbits.\n\nCattle provide a large part of the leather used for clothing products such as shoes, handbags and belts, as well as for upholstery. Wool has been used for centuries for clothing including suits and tweed jackets as well as knitwear such as pullovers. The primary source of wool is sheep, but goats provide angora and cashmere, and alpacas provide a luxurious fleece.\n\nWorking domestic animals including cattle and horses have been used for work and transport from the origins of agriculture, their numbers declining with the arrival of mechanised transport and agricultural machinery. In 2004 they still provided some 80% of the power for the mainly small farms in the third world, and some 20% of the world's transport, again mainly in rural areas. In mountainous regions unsuitable for wheeled vehicles, pack animals continue to transport goods.\n\nMammals serve a major role in science as experimental animals, both in fundamental biological research, such as in genetics, and in the development of new medicines, which must be tested exhaustively to demonstrate their safety. Millions of mammals, especially mice and rats, are used in experiments each year. A knockout mouse is a genetically modified mouse with an inactivated gene, replaced or disrupted with an artificial piece of DNA. They enable the study of sequenced genes whose functions are unknown. A small percentage of the mammals are non-human primates, including the grivet, the rhesus macaque, and the crab-eating macaque, which are used in research for their similarity to humans.\n\nMammals are the most popular pets in the Western world, with the most kept species being dogs, cats, and rabbits. For example, in America in 2012 there were some 78 million dogs, 86 million cats, and 3.5 million rabbits.\n\nThere is a tension between the role of animals as companions to humans, and their existence as individuals with rights of their own.\n\nMammals, including deer and wild boar, are among the game animals most often hunted for sport and for food. Predatory mammals, most often dogs, are used to help catch game, and to retrieve shot birds.\n\nMammals are widely raced for sport, often combined with betting on the outcome, especially in horse racing and greyhound racing.\n\nMammals have been the subjects of art from the earliest times, both historical, as in Ancient Egypt, and prehistoric, as in the cave paintings at Lascaux and other sites in the Dordogne, France and elsewhere. Major animal paintings include Albrecht Dürer's 1515 \"The Rhinoceros\", George Stubbs's c. 1762 horse portrait \"Whistlejacket\", Edwin Landseer's 1851 \"The Monarch of the Glen\", and Henri Rousseau's 1891 tiger in an imaginary landscape, \"Surprised!\".\nMammals from mice and foxes to elephants play a wide variety of roles in literature and media including photography and film.\n\nMammals including cattle, deer, horses, lions and wolves, along with creatures derived from them, such as werewolves, figure in mythology and religion. Jacques Cauvin has argued that Neolithic animal symbols, with early art depicting figures such as bull gods, derive from the critical importance of domesticated mammals in that period.\n\nSoft toys often have the forms of juvenile mammals, especially bears. The teddy bear was developed apparently simultaneously by the toymakers Morris Michtom in America and Richard Steiff in Germany in the early years of the 20th century. It was named after the big game hunter President Theodore \"Teddy\" Roosevelt. The teddy bear became an iconic children's toy, celebrated in story, song, and film.\n\nAnthropomorphism is the innate tendency to attribute human traits, emotions, and intentions to animals, most commonly to mammals, and it is an important part of the way that people relate to mammals. Attitudes and behaviour to animals ranges from cruel to sentimental.\n\nIn literature, fables such as those of Aesop have been told to teach wisdom through intentional fictions about characters such as apes, asses, bears, cats, sheep, deer, dogs, foxes, hares, horses, lions, and mice. Anthropomorphic children's literature became popular from the nineteenth century with works such as Lewis Carroll's 1865 \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" and Rudyard Kipling's 1894 \"The Jungle Book\". In the twentieth century, many of the most popular works for children have anthropomorphic characters, including Beatrix Potter's 1901\"The Tale of Peter Rabbit\", Kenneth Grahame's 1908 \"The Wind in the Willows\", and C. S. Lewis's \"The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe\" in all of which the animals, mainly mammals, wear human clothes and have human attributes of character.\n\nAnthropomorphic language, implying the existence of intentions and emotions in animals, was deprecated for most of the 20th century, as indicating a lack of scientific objectivity. In 1927 Ivan Pavlov wrote that animals should be considered \"without any need to resort to fantastic speculations as to the existence of any possible subjective states\". In 1987 \"The Oxford Companion to Animal Behaviour\" still advised that \"one is well advised to study the behaviour rather than attempting to get at any underlying emotion\". Charles Darwin however had accepted the idea of emotion in animals, writing his 1872 book \"The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals\" on the subject. Darwin believed that mammals had social, mental and moral lives. In \"The Descent of Man\" (1871), he wrote: \"There is no fundamental difference between man and the higher mammals in their mental faculties.\"\n\nBiologists remained wary of the idea, even for the great apes, but this led to serious difficulties, as Donald O. Hebb explained in 1946:\n\nIn the 1960s the three leading primatologists nicknamed \"Leakey's Angels\", Jane Goodall studying chimpanzees, Dian Fossey studying gorillas and Biruté Galdikas studying orangutans, were all accused of \"that worst of ethological sins – anthropomorphism\" as they sought to explain primate behaviour using empathy. The primatologist Frans de Waal summarised the dilemma: \"To endow animals with human emotions has long been a scientific taboo. But if we do not, we risk missing something fundamental, about both animals and us.\"\n"}
{"id": "43459158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43459158", "title": "Interval recognition", "text": "Interval recognition\n\nInterval recognition, the ability to name and reproduce musical intervals, is an important part of ear training, music transcription, musical intonation and sight-reading.\n\nSome music teachers teach their students relative pitch by having them associate each possible interval with the first interval of a popular song. Such songs are known as \"reference songs.\" However, others have shown that such familiar-melody associations are quite limited in scope, applicable only to the specific scale-degrees found in each melody.\n\nHere are some examples for each interval:\n\nIn addition, there are various solmization systems (including solfeggio, sargam, and numerical sight-singing) that assign specific syllables to different notes of the scale. Among other things, this makes it easier to hear how intervals sound in different contexts, such as starting on different notes of the same scale.\n"}
{"id": "658978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=658978", "title": "Kents Cavern", "text": "Kents Cavern\n\nKents Cavern is a cave system in Torquay, Devon, England. It is notable for its archaeological and geological features. The cave system is open to the public and has been a geological Site of Special Scientific Interest since 1952 and a Scheduled Ancient Monument since 1957.\n\nThe caverns and passages were formed in the early Pleistocene period by water action, and have been occupied by one of at least eight separate, discontinuous native populations to have inhabited the British Isles. The other key paleolithic sites in the UK are Happisburgh, Pakefield, Boxgrove, Swanscombe, Pontnewydd, Paviland, Creswell Crags and Gough's Cave.\n\nA prehistoric maxilla (upper jawbone) fragment was discovered in the cavern during a 1927 excavation by the Torquay Natural History Society, and named \"Kents Cavern 4.\" The specimen is on display at the Torquay Museum.\n\nIn 1989 the fragment was radiocarbon dated to 36,400–34,700 years BP, but a 2011 study that dated fossils from neighbouring strata produced an estimate of 44,200–41,500 years BP. The same study analysed the dental structure of the fragment and determined it to be \"Homo sapiens\" rather than \"Homo neanderthalensis\", which would have made it the earliest anatomically modern human fossil yet discovered in northwestern Europe. In a response to this paper in 2012 the authors Mark White and Paul Pettitt wrote \"We urge caution over using a small selected sample of fauna\nfrom an old and poorly executed excavation in Kent’s Cavern to provide a radiocarbon stratigraphy and age for a human fossil that cannot be dated directly, and we suggest that the recent dating should be rejected.\"\n\nKents Cavern is first recorded as Kents Hole Close on a 1659 deed when the land was leased to John Black. The earliest evidence of exploration of the caves in historic times is two inscriptions, \"William Petre 1571\" and \"Robert Hedges 1688\" engraved on stalagmites. The first recorded excavation was that of Thomas Northmore in 1824. Northmore's work attracted the attention of William Buckland, the first Reader in Geology at the University of Oxford, who sent a party including John MacEnery to explore the caves in an attempt to find evidence that Mithras was once worshipped in the area. MacEnery, the Roman Catholic chaplain at Torre Abbey, conducted systematic excavations between 1824 and 1829. When MacEnery reported to the British Association the discovery of flint tools below the stalagmites on the cave floor, his work was derided as contrary to Bishop James Ussher's Biblical chronology dating the Creation to 4004 BC.\n\nIn September 1845 the recently created Torquay Natural History Society requested permission from Sir Lawrence Palk to explore the caves to obtain fossils and artefacts for the planned Torquay Museum, and as a result Edward Vivian and William Pengelly were allowed to conduct excavations between 1846 and 1858. Vivian reported to the Geological Society in 1847, but at the time, it was generally believed that early humans had entered the caves long after the formation of the cave structures examined. This changed when in the Autumn of 1859, following the work of Pengelly at the Brixham Cavern and of Jacques de Perthes in France, the Royal Society, the Society of Antiquaries, and the British Association agreed that the excavations had established the antiquity of humanity.\n\nIn 1865 the British Association created a committee, led by Pengelly, to fully explore the cave system over the course of fifteen years. It was Pengelly's party that discovered Robert Hedges' stalagmite inscription, and from the stalagmite's growth since that time deduced that human-created artefacts found under the formation could be half a million years old. Pengelly plotted the position of every bone, flint, and other artefact he discovered during the excavations, and afterward continued working with the Torquay Natural History Society until his death in 1892 at his home less than 2 km from the caves.\n\nIn 1903 Kents Cavern, then part of Lord Haldon's estate, was sold to Francis Powe, a carpenter who originally used the caves as a workshop while making beach huts for the Torquay sea front. Powe's son, Leslie Powe, turned the caves into a tourist attraction by laying concrete paths, installing electric lighting, and building visitor facilities that later were improved, in turn, by his son John Powe. The caves, now owned by Nick Powe, celebrated 100 years of Powe family ownership on 23 August 2003 with special events including an archæological dig for children and a display by a cave rescue team. A year later a new £500,000 visitor centre was opened, including a restaurant and gift shop.\n\nAttracting 80,000 tourists a year, Kents Cavern is an important tourist attraction and this was recognised in 2000 when it was awarded Showcave of the Year award and later in November 2005 when it was awarded a prize for being Torquay's Visitor Attraction of the year.\n\n\"Hampsley Cavern\" in Agatha Christie's 1924 novel \"The Man in the Brown Suit\", is based on Kents Cavern. The 2011 science fiction romance \"Time Watchers: The Greatest of These\", by Julie Reilly, uses Kents Cavern as a principal setting in three different time periods.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21342805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21342805", "title": "Kiberpipa", "text": "Kiberpipa\n\nKiberpipa () was a hackerspace in Ljubljana, Slovenia, established in 2001 as a part of the K6/4 Institute. After a breakup with the parent organization and moving to a different location in 2013 it ceased most operations in 2015.\n\nThe hackerspace operated as a cultural centre, computer laboratory and Internet café (with free wireless access) at Kersnikova 4, Ljubljana. Kiberpipa engaged primarily in open source programming, electronic art and the recycling of computer devices. Between 2005 and 2013 it also hosted a small living computer museum.\n\nThe mostly volunteer team in the hackerspace organised workshops, lectures, and entertainment and information events, with around 150 events yearly at the height of its activity.\n\nIn 2013, the Student Organization of University of Ljubljana, the owner of the building where Kiberpipa originally operated, decided to re-purpose the building as a restaurant and a parking garage. After failing to negotiate a new position within the organization, Kiberpipa team opted to continue operating independently of the Student Organization and moved to a new location. In the same year, the Student Organization opened its own hackerspace Rampa.\n\nIn 2014, Kiberpipa re-opened at a new location at Gosposvetska 2 using volunteer work and donations. It continued to organize lectures and open source software-related events at the new location until closure in 2015. In 2015 a web server malfunction also resulted in the loss of the Kiberpipa website and archived content.\n\nKiberpipa co-operated with other organizations in Slovenia, e.g. the Slo-Tech and 3delavnica teams, regional multimedia centres (including Ljudmila - Ljubljana Digital Media Lab, KIBLA Multimedia Centre) and organizations abroad (Mama New Media Centre in Zagreb, HackLab in Pula for example).\n\nKiberpipa organised the bi-annual HAIP Festival (Hack/Act/Interact/Progress Festival).\n\nKiberpipa was a member of the m3c Multimedia Centres Network of Slovenia.\n\n"}
{"id": "57780444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57780444", "title": "Ling-Chi Wang", "text": "Ling-Chi Wang\n\nLing-Chi Wang is a civil rights activist and Professor Emeritus of Asian-American studies and ethnic studies at the University of California, Berkeley. He has been called the \"Asian Martin Luther King\" for his four decades of activism. Wang was born in Xiamen, Fujian in 1938 and emigrated to the United States in 1957 at the age of 19.\n\nHe received a master's degree in Near Eastern studies from the University of Chicago. However, as a response to the Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s, Wang switched his interests to Asian American studies.\n\nIn response to the Wen Ho Lee spying allegations, Wang and an Asian American academic organization instituted a boycott of the two labs run by the University of California, in Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico. He also helped organize a class-action lawsuit against the labs in response to racial profiling allegations.\n\nWang led a movement expose the involvement of Republic of China (Taiwan)'s government role in the murder of Henry Liu in Daly City, California by Bamboo Union agents.\n\n"}
{"id": "34009483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34009483", "title": "List of streets named after Adolf Hitler", "text": "List of streets named after Adolf Hitler\n\nThis is a partial list of streets and squares named after Adolf Hitler during the era of Nazi Germany.\n\nThe zeal with which German municipal authorities attempted, immediately after the seizure of power, to play their part in the \"National Rising\" () is shown by the practice of conferring honorary municipal citizenship on Hitler, and even more by naming a street (\"Straße\"), a square or place (\"Platz\"), a promenade (\"Anlage\"), an avenue (\"Damm\", \"Allee\"), a stadium (\"Kampfbahn\"), or a bridge (\"Brücke\") after the new chancellor. As early as March and April 1933, a wave of renamings swept through Germany's cities. Most of the examples in the list come from this period.\n\nBefore 1931, there are records of a street named Rua Adolpho Hitler in the Campo Belo district of Santo Amaro, Brazil. Its name was changed in 1931 to Rua Almirante Barroso, but when Santo Amaro was merged into São Paulo on the next year, the street was again renamed to Rua Gil Eanes, due to a homonym street in Brás. The street still retains Gil Eanes’s name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20669382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20669382", "title": "Log furniture", "text": "Log furniture\n\nLog furniture is a type of rustic furniture made by incorporating the use of whole logs. It is often designed to have a \"pioneer\" look. Log furniture is often very durable and long-lasting, depending on the manufacturing methods used.\n\nLog furniture, reclaimed wood furniture, and other types of rustic furniture have increased in popularity in recent years. As a result, there are many more styles and options available for those looking to furnish their mountain lodges, country homes, or log cabins. The more economical lines of log furniture are typically milled by machine and are massed produced. Shoppers looking for unique style may opt for the more expensive collections of handcrafted, one-of-a-kind log furniture.\n\nThere are various types of log furniture, from the sleek finished look to the rustic ‘craggy’ look. Building log furniture is time-consuming, and since most pieces are custom built, it can often be quite expensive. The mortise and tenon method is favored for its strength.\n\nLog furniture can be manufactured from almost any type of wood as long as the timbers that are used have adequate dimensions and strength. Some of the most popular types of wood include aspen, steam-bent hickory, pine, aromatic red cedar, northern white cedar, walnut, and willow. Some log furniture is made from exotic woods such as osage orange.\n\nLog furniture is often featured in country and holiday houses. It is a popular choice for cottage houses and mountain homes. It is most commonly favored in mountainous regions of America (Rocky Mountains) and Europe (Alps). It is often classified as premium furniture because its cost is higher than the cost of what is considered regular furniture. Because of its nature, log furniture can be a good choice for outdoor use. With the right impregnation, it can last decades without the need of refurbishing. It rose to popularity again in the 2000's after years of decline, caused by accessibility of cheap furniture substitutes. It has now become a sign of wealth and good taste. The log furniture industry is often aimed at local markets, making it a good choice for buyers looking to support the local community. Log furniture is strongly associated with Christmas decor in both America and Europe.\n\nCertain cracks in logs are referred to as \"checks\" or \"checking.\" Checking is part of the natural drying process of the wood and normally does not affect the structural integrity of the log. Checks are cracks that run vertically (with the grain). These checks can be as much as three-quarters of an inch in width, depending on the diameter of the log.\n"}
{"id": "209717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209717", "title": "Madrasa", "text": "Madrasa\n\nMadrasa (, \",\" pl. , \"\") is the Arabic word for any type of educational institution, secular or religious (of any religion), whether for elementary instruction or higher learning. The word is variously transliterated \"madrasah\", \"medresa\", \"madrassa\", \"madraza\", \"medrese\", etc. In the West, the word usually refers to a specific type of religious school or college for the study of the Islamic religion, though this may not be the only subject studied. In countries like India, not all students in madrasas are Muslims; there is also a modern curriculum.\n\nThe word ' derives from the triconsonantal Semitic root د-ر-س \"D-R-S\" 'to learn, study', through the \"wazn\" (form/stem) ; , meaning \"a place where something is done\". Therefore, ' literally means \"a place where learning and studying take place\". The word is also present as a loanword with the same innocuous meaning in many Arabic-influenced languages, such as: Urdu, Bengali, Pashto, Baluchi, Persian, Turkish, Azeri, Kurdish, Indonesian, Malay and Bosnian. In the Arabic language, the word \"\" simply means the same as \"school\" does in the English language, whether that is private, public or parochial school, as well as for any primary or secondary school whether Muslim, non-Muslim, or secular. Unlike the use of the word \"school\" in British English, the word ' more closely resembles the term \"school\" in American English, in that it can refer to a university-level or post-graduate school as well as to a primary or secondary school. For example, in the Ottoman Empire during the Early Modern Period, madaris had lower schools and specialised schools where the students became known as \"danişmends\". The usual Arabic word for a university, however, is \" ()\". The Hebrew cognate \"midrasha\" also connotes the meaning of a place of learning; the related term \"midrash\" literally refers to study or learning, but has acquired mystical and religious connotations.\n\nHowever, in English, the term ' usually refers to the specifically Islamic institutions. A typical Islamic school usually offers two courses of study: a ' course teaching memorization of the Qur'an (the person who commits the entire Qur'an to memory is called a ); and an course leading the candidate to become an accepted scholar in the community. A regular curriculum includes courses in Arabic, \"tafsir\" (Qur'anic interpretation), (Islamic law), hadiths (recorded sayings and deeds of Muhammad), mantiq (logic), and Muslim history. In the Ottoman Empire, during the Early Modern Period, the study of hadiths was introduced by Süleyman I. Depending on the educational demands, some madaris also offer additional advanced courses in Arabic literature, English and other foreign languages, as well as science and world history. Ottoman madaris along with religious teachings also taught \"styles of writing, grammary, syntax, poetry, composition, natural sciences, political sciences, and etiquette.\"\n\nPeople of all ages attend, and many often move on to becoming imams. The certificate of an \"ʻālim\", for example, requires approximately twelve years of study. A good number of the \"ḥuffāẓ\" (plural of \"ḥāfiẓ\") are the product of the madaris. The madaris also resemble colleges, where people take evening classes and reside in dormitories. An important function of the madaris is to admit orphans and poor children in order to provide them with education and training. Madaris may enroll female students; however, they study separately from the men.\n\nThe term \"Islamic education\" means education in the light of Islam itself, which is rooted in the teachings of the Qur'an - the holy book of the Muslims. Islamic education and Muslim education are not the same. Because Islamic education has epistemological integration which is founded on Tawhid - Oneness or monotheism.\n\nThe first institute of madrasa education was at the estate of Zaid bin Arkam near a hill called Safa, where Muhammad was the teacher and the students were some of his followers. After Hijrah (migration) the madrasa of \"Suffa\" was established in Madina on the east side of the Al-Masjid an-Nabawi mosque. Ubada ibn as-Samit was appointed there by Muhammad as teacher and among the students. In the curriculum of the madrasa, there were teachings of The Qur'an, The Hadith, fara'iz, tajweed, genealogy, treatises of first aid, etc. There were also trainings of horse-riding, art of war, handwriting and calligraphy, athletics and martial arts. The first part of madrasa based education is estimated from the first day of \"nabuwwat\" to the first portion of the Umayyad Caliphate.\n\nEstablished in 859, (located in Mosque) in the city of Fas, Morocco, is considered the oldest university in the world by some scholars, though the existence of universities in the medieval Muslim world is debated. It was founded by , the daughter of a wealthy merchant named . This was later followed by the establishment of al-Azhar in 959 in Cairo, Egypt.\n\nDuring the late ʻAbbāsid period, the Seljuk vizier created one of the first major official academic institutions known in history as the , based on the informal ' (sessions of the shaykhs). , who would later be murdered by the Assassins ('), created a system of state madaris (in his time they were called the Niẓāmiyyahs, named after him) in various ʻAbbāsid cities at the end of the 11th century.\nDuring the rule of the Fatimid and Mamluk dynasties and their successor states in the medieval Middle East, many of the ruling elite founded madaris through a religious endowment known as the waqf. Not only was the madrasa a potent symbol of status but it was an effective means of transmitting wealth and status to their descendants. Especially during the Mamluk period, when only former slaves could assume power, the sons of the ruling elite were unable to inherit. Guaranteed positions within the new madaris thus allowed them to maintain status. Madaris built in this period include the Mosque- of Sultan in Cairo.\n\nDimitri Gutas and the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" consider the period between the 11th and 14th centuries to be the \"Golden Age\" of Arabic and Islamic philosophy, initiated by al-Ghazali's successful integration of logic into the curriculum and the subsequent rise of Avicennism.\n\nAt the beginning of the Caliphate or Islamic Empire, the reliance on courts initially confined sponsorship and scholarly activities to major centres. Within several centuries, the development of Muslim educational institutions such as the \"\" and \"masjid\" eventually introduced such activities to provincial towns and dispersed them across the Islamic legal schools and Sufi orders. In addition to religious subjects, they also taught the \"rational sciences,\" as varied as mathematics, astronomy, astrology, geography, alchemy, philosophy, magic, and occultism, depending on the curriculum of the specific institution in question. The madaris, however, were not centres of advanced scientific study; scientific advances in Islam were usually carried out by scholars working under the patronage of royal courts. During the Islamic Golden Age, the Caliphate experienced a growth in literacy, having the highest literacy rate of the Middle Ages, comparable to classical Athens' literacy in antiquity but on a much larger scale. The emergence of the maktab and madrasa institutions played a fundamental role in the relatively high literacy rates of the medieval Islamic world.\n\nThe following excerpt provides a brief synopsis of the historical origins and starting points for the teachings that took place in the Ottoman madaris in the Early Modern Period:\n\nIn the medieval Islamic world, an elementary school was known as a ', which dates back to at least the 10th century. Like madaris (which referred to higher education), a was often attached to an endowed mosque. In the 11th century, the famous Persian Islamic philosopher and teacher (known as \"Avicenna\" in the West), in one of his books, wrote a chapter about the ' entitled \"The Role of the Teacher in the Training and Upbringing of Children,\" as a guide to teachers working at ' schools. He wrote that children can learn better if taught in classes instead of individual tuition from private tutors, and he gave a number of reasons for why this is the case, citing the value of competition and emulation among pupils, as well as the usefulness of group discussions and debates. described the curriculum of a ' school in some detail, describing the curricula for two stages of education in a \" school.\n\n wrote that children should be sent to a \" school from the age of 6 and be taught primary education until they reach the age of 14. During which time, he wrote, they should be taught the Qur'an, Islamic metaphysics, Arabic, literature, Islamic ethics, and manual skills (which could refer to a variety of practical skills).\n\n refers to the secondary education stage of \" schooling as a period of specialisation when pupils should begin to acquire manual skills, regardless of their social status. He writes that children after the age of 14 should be allowed to choose and specialise in subjects they have an interest in, whether it was reading, manual skills, literature, preaching, medicine, geometry, trade and commerce, craftsmanship, or any other subject or profession they would be interested in pursuing for a future career. He wrote that this was a transitional stage and that there needs to be flexibility regarding the age in which pupils graduate, as the student's emotional development and chosen subjects need to be taken into account.\n\nDuring its formative period, the term \" referred to a higher education institution, whose curriculum initially included only the \"religious sciences\", whilst philosophy and the secular sciences were often excluded. The curriculum slowly began to diversify, with many later madaris teaching both the religious and the \"secular sciences\", such as logic, mathematics and philosophy. Some madaris further extended their curriculum to history, politics, ethics, music, metaphysics, medicine, astronomy and chemistry. The curriculum of a was usually set by its founder, but most generally taught both the religious sciences and the physical sciences. Madaris were established throughout the Islamic world, examples being the 9th century University of al-Qarawiyyin, the 10th century al-Azhar University (the most famous), the 11th century , as well as 75 madaris in Cairo, 51 in Damascus and up to 44 in Aleppo between 1155 and 1260. Many more were also established in the Andalusian cities of Córdoba, Seville, Toledo, Granada (Madrasah of Granada), Murcia, Almería, Valencia and Cádiz during the Caliphate of Córdoba.\n\nIn the Ottoman Empire during the early modern period, \"Madaris were divided into lower and specialised levels, which reveals that there was a sense of elevation in school. Students who studied in the specialised schools after completing courses in the lower levels became known as \"danişmends\".\"\n\nWhile \" can now refer to any type of school, the term \" was originally used to refer more specifically to a medieval Islamic centre of learning, mainly teaching Islamic law and theology, usually affiliated with a mosque, and funded by an early charitable trust known as \"waqf\".\n\nMadaris were largely centred on the study of ' (Islamic jurisprudence). The \"\" (\"licence to teach and issue legal opinions\") in the medieval Islamic legal education system had its origins in the 9th century after the formation of the \"\" (schools of jurisprudence). George Makdisi considers the ' to be the origin of the European doctorate. However, in an earlier article, he considered the ' to be of \"fundamental difference\" to the medieval doctorate, since the former was awarded by an individual teacher-scholar not obliged to follow any formal criteria, whereas the latter was conferred on the student by the collective authority of the faculty. To obtain an ', a student \"had to study in a guild school of law, usually four years for the basic undergraduate course\" and ten or more years for a post-graduate course. The \"doctorate was obtained after an oral examination to determine the originality of the candidate's theses\", and to test the student's \"ability to defend them against all objections, in disputations set up for the purpose.\" These were scholarly exercises practised throughout the student's \"career as a graduate student of law.\" After students completed their post-graduate education, they were awarded \"ijaza\"s giving them the status of \"\" 'scholar of jurisprudence', \"\" 'scholar competent in issuing fatwās', and \"\" 'teacher'.\nThe Arabic term ' was awarded to Islamic scholars who were qualified to teach. According to Makdisi, the Latin title \"licentia docendi\" 'licence to teach' in the European university may have been a translation of the Arabic, but the underlying concept was very different. A significant difference between the ' and the \"licentia docendi\" was that the former was awarded by the individual scholar-teacher, while the latter was awarded by the chief official of the university, who represented the collective faculty, rather than the individual scholar-teacher.\n\nMuch of the study in the college centred on examining whether certain opinions of law were orthodox. This scholarly process of \"determining orthodoxy began with a question which the Muslim layman, called in that capacity \"\", presented to a jurisconsult, called \"mufti\", soliciting from him a response, called \"fatwa\", a legal opinion (the religious law of Islam covers civil as well as religious matters). The \"mufti\" (professor of legal opinions) took this question, studied it, researched it intensively in the sacred scriptures, in order to find a solution to it. This process of scholarly research was called \"\", literally, the exertion of one's efforts to the utmost limit.\"\n\nThough Islamic medicine was most often taught at the bimaristan teaching hospitals, there were also several medical madaris dedicated to the teaching of medicine. For example, of the 155 madrasa colleges in 15th century Damascus, three of them were medical schools.\n\nToby Huff argues that no medical degrees were granted to students, as there was no faculty that could issue them, and that, therefore, no system of examination and certification developed in the Islamic tradition like that of medieval Europe. However, the historians Andrew C. Miller, Nigel J. Shanks and Dawshe Al-Kalai point out that, during this era, physician licensure became mandatory in the Abbasid Caliphate. In 931 AD, Caliph Al-Muqtadir learned of the death of one of his subjects as a result of a physician's error. He immediately ordered his muhtasib Sinan ibn Thabit to examine and prevent doctors from practicing until they passed an examination. From this time on, licensing exams were required and only qualified physicians were allowed to practice medicine.\n\nIn the Early Modern Period in the Ottoman Empire, \"Suleyman I added new curriculums ['sic'] to the Ottoman medreses of which one was medicine, which alongside studying of the was given highest rank.\"\n\nScholars like Arnold H. Green and Seyyed Hossein Nasr have argued that, starting in the 10th century, some medieval Islamic madaris indeed became universities. However, scholars like George Makdisi, Toby Huff and Norman Daniel argue that the European medieval university has no parallel in the medieval Islamic world. Darleen Pryds questions this view, pointing out that madaris and European universities in the Mediterranean region shared similar foundations by princely patrons and were intended to provide loyal administrators to further the rulers' agenda. A number of scholars regard the university as uniquely European in origin and characteristics. According to \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", however, the earliest universities were founded in Asia and Africa, predating the first European medieval universities.\n\nUniversity in Fez, Morocco is recognised by many historians as the oldest degree-granting university in the world, having been founded in 859 by Fatima al-Fihri. While the madrasa college could also issue degrees at all levels, the \"jāmiʻah\"s (such as and al-Azhar University) differed in the sense that they were larger institutions, more universal in terms of their complete source of studies, had individual faculties for different subjects, and could house a number of mosques, madaris, and other institutions within them. Such an institution has thus been described as an \"Islamic university\".\n\nAl-Azhar University, founded in Cairo, Egypt in 975 by the Ismaʻīlī Shīʻī Fatimid dynasty as a ', had individual faculties for a theological seminary, Islamic law and jurisprudence, Arabic grammar, Islamic astronomy, early Islamic philosophy and logic in Islamic philosophy. The postgraduate doctorate in law was only obtained after \"an oral examination to determine the originality of the candidate's theses\", and to test the student's \"ability to defend them against all objections, in disputations set up for the purpose.\" ‘Abd al-Laṭīf al-Baghdādī also delivered lectures on Islamic medicine at al-Azhar, while Maimonides delivered lectures on medicine and astronomy there during the time of Saladin. Another early ' was the Niẓāmīyah of Baghdād (founded 1091), which has been called the \"largest university of the Medieval world.\" Mustansiriya University, established by the ʻAbbāsid caliph al-Mustanṣir in 1233, in addition to teaching the religious subjects, offered courses dealing with philosophy, mathematics and the natural sciences.\n\nHowever, the classification of madaris as \"universities\" is disputed on the question of understanding of each institution on its own terms. In madaris, the \"ijāzahs\" were only issued in one field, the Islamic religious law of , and in no other field of learning. Other academic subjects, including the natural sciences, philosophy and literary studies, were only treated \"ancillary\" to the study of the Sharia. For example, a natural science like astronomy was only studied (if at all) to supply religious needs, like the time for prayer. This is why Ptolemaic astronomy was considered adequate, and is still taught in some modern day madaris. The Islamic law undergraduate degree from al-Azhar, the most prestigious madrasa, was traditionally granted without final examinations, but on the basis of the students' attentive attendance to courses. In contrast to the medieval doctorate which was granted by the collective authority of the faculty, the Islamic degree was not granted by the teacher to the pupil based on any formal criteria, but remained a \"personal matter, the sole prerogative of the person bestowing it; no one could force him to give one\".\n\nMedievalist specialists who define the university as a legally autonomous corporation disagree with the term \"university\" for the Islamic madaris and \"jāmi‘ah\"s because the medieval university (from Latin \"universitas\") was structurally different, being a legally autonomous corporation rather than a \"waqf\" institution like the madrasa and '. Despite the many similarities, medieval specialists have coined the term \"Islamic college\" for madrasa and ' to differentiate them from the legally autonomous corporations that the medieval European universities were. In a sense, the madrasa resembles a university college in that it has most of the features of a university, but lacks the corporate element. Toby Huff summarises the difference as follows: As Muslim institutions of higher learning, the madrasa had the legal designation of waqf. In central and eastern Islamic lands, the view that the madrasa, as a charitable endowment, will remain under the control of the donor (and their descendent), resulted in a \"spurt\" of establishment of madaris in the 11th and 12th centuries. However, in Western Islamic lands, where the Maliki views prohibited donors from controlling their endowment, madaris were not as popular. Unlike the corporate designation of Western institutions of higher learning, the waqf designation seemed to have led to the exclusion of non-orthodox religious subjects such a philosophy and natural science from the curricula.\n\nThe madrasa of , one of the two surviving madaris that predate the founding of the earliest medieval universities and are thus claimed to be the \"first universities\" by some authors, has acquired official university status as late as 1947. The other, al-Azhar, did acquire this status in name and essence only in the course of numerous reforms during the 19th and 20th century, notably the one of 1961 which introduced non-religious subjects to its curriculum, such as economics, engineering, medicine, and agriculture. It should also be noted that many medieval universities were run for centuries as Christian cathedral schools or monastic schools prior to their formal establishment as \"universitas scholarium\"; evidence of these immediate forerunners of the university dates back to the 6th century AD, thus well preceding the earliest madaris. George Makdisi, who has published most extensively on the topic concludes in his comparison between the two institutions: \n\nNevertheless, Makdisi has asserted that the European university borrowed many of its features from the Islamic madrasa, including the concepts of a degree and doctorate. Makdisi and Hugh Goddard have also highlighted other terms and concepts now used in modern universities which most likely have Islamic origins, including \"the fact that we still talk of professors holding the 'chairman' of their subject\" being based on the \"traditional Islamic pattern of teaching where the professor sits on a chair and the students sit around him\", the term 'academic circles' being derived from the way in which Islamic students \"sat in a circle around their professor\", and terms such as \"having 'fellows', 'reading' a subject, and obtaining 'degrees', can all be traced back\" to the Islamic concepts of ' ('companions, as of Muhammad'), ' ('reading aloud the Qur'an') and \"\" ('licence [to teach]') respectively. Makdisi has listed eighteen such parallels in terminology which can be traced back to their roots in Islamic education. Some of the practices now common in modern universities which Makdisi and Goddard trace back to an Islamic root include \"practices such as delivering inaugural lectures, wearing academic robes, obtaining doctorates by defending a thesis, and even the idea of academic freedom are also modelled on Islamic custom.\" The Islamic scholarly system of \"\" and \"\", meaning opinion and consensus respectively, formed the basis of the \"scholarly system the West has practised in university scholarship from the Middle Ages down to the present day.\" According to Makdisi and Goddard, \"the idea of academic freedom\" in universities was also \"modelled on Islamic custom\" as practised in the medieval Madrasa system from the 9th century. Islamic influence was \"certainly discernible in the foundation of the first deliberately planned university\" in Europe, the University of Naples Federico II founded by Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor in 1224.\n\nHowever, all of these facets of medieval university life are considered by standard scholarship to be independent medieval European developments with no tracable Islamic influence. Generally, some reviewers have pointed out the strong inclination of Makdisi of overstating his case by simply resting on \"the accumulation of close parallels\", but all the while failing to point to convincing channels of transmission between the Muslim and Christian world. Norman Daniel points out that the Arab equivalent of the Latin disputation, the taliqa, was reserved for the ruler's court, not the madrasa, and that the actual differences between Islamic fiqh and medieval European civil law were profound. The taliqa only reached Islamic Spain, the only likely point of transmission, after the establishment of the first medieval universities. In fact, there is no Latin translation of the taliqa and, most importantly, no evidence of Latin scholars ever showing awareness of Arab influence on the Latin method of disputation, something they would have certainly found noteworthy. Rather, it was the medieval reception of the Greek Organon which set the scholastic sic et non in motion. Daniel concludes that resemblances in method had more to with the two religions having \"common problems: to reconcile the conflicting statements of their own authorities, and to safeguard the data of revelation from the impact of Greek philosophy\"; thus Christian scholasticism and similar Arab concepts should be viewed in terms of a parallel occurrence, not of the transmission of ideas from one to the other, a view shared by Hugh Kennedy.\n\nToby Huff, in a discussion of Makdisi's hypothesis, argues:\nGeorge Saliba criticized Huff's views regarding the legal autonomy of European universities and limited curriculum of Madrasahs, demonstrating that there were many Madrasahs dedicated to the teaching of non-religious subjects and arguing that Madrasahs generally had greater legal autonomy than medieval European universities. According to Saliba, Madrasahs \"were fully protected from interference in their curriculum by the very endowments that established them in the first place.\" Examples include the Dakhwariyya madrasah in Damascus, which was dedicated to medicine, a subject also taught at Islamic hospitals; the Madrasah established by Kamal al-Din Ibn Man`a (d. 1242) in Mosul which taught astronomy, music, and the Old the New Testaments; Ulugh Beg’s Madrasah in Samarqand which taught astronomy; and Shi`i madrasahs in Iran which taught astronomy along with religious studies. According to Saliba:\n\nPrior to the 12th century, women accounted for less than one percent of the world’s Islamic scholars. However, al-Sakhawi and Mohammad Akram Nadwi have since found evidence of over 8,000 female scholars since the 15th century. al-Sakhawi devotes an entire volume of his 12-volume biographical dictionary \"\" to female scholars, giving information on 1,075 of them. More recently, the scholar Mohammad Akram Nadwi, currently a researcher from the Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies, has written 40 volumes on the (the women scholars of hadith), and found at least 8,000 of them.\n\nFrom around 750, during the Abbasid Caliphate, women \"became renowned for their brains as well as their beauty\". In particular, many well known women of the time were trained from childhood in music, dancing and poetry. Mahbuba was one of these. Another feminine figure to be remembered for her achievements was Tawaddud, \"a slave girl who was said to have been bought at great cost by because she had passed her examinations by the most eminent scholars in astronomy, medicine, law, philosophy, music, history, Arabic grammar, literature, theology and chess\". Moreover, among the most prominent feminine figures was Shuhda who was known as \"the Scholar\" or \"the Pride of Women\" during the 12th century in Baghdad. Despite the recognition of women's aptitudes during the Abbasid dynasty, all these came to an end in Iraq with the sack of Baghdad in 1258.\n\nWomen played an important role in the foundations of many Islamic educational institutions, such as Fatima al-Fihri's founding of the University of Al Karaouine in 859. This continued through to the Ayyubid dynasty in the 12th and 13th centuries, when 160 mosques and madaris were established in Damascus, 26 of which were funded by women through the Waqf (charitable trust) system. Half of all the royal patrons for these institutions were also women.\n\nAccording to the Sunni scholar in the 12th century, there were opportunities for female education in the medieval Islamic world, writing that women could study, earn \"ijazahs\" (academic degrees), and qualify as scholars and teachers. This was especially the case for learned and scholarly families, who wanted to ensure the highest possible education for both their sons and daughters. Ibn ʻAsakir had himself studied under 80 different female teachers in his time. Female education in the Islamic world was inspired by Muhammad's wives, such as Khadijah, a successful businesswoman, and 'A'isha, a strong leader and interpreter of the Prophet's actions. According to a hadith attributed both to Muhammad and 'A'isha, the women of Medina were praiseworthy because of their desire for religious knowledge:\n\nWhile it was not common for women to enroll as students in formal classes, it was common for women to attend informal lectures and study sessions at mosques, madaris and other public places. While there were no legal restrictions on female education, some men did not approve of this practice, such as Muhammad ibn al-Hajj (d. 1336) who was appalled at the behaviour of some women who informally audited lectures in his time:\n\nThe term \"\" is often translated as 'that which is indecent', which usually meant the exposure of anything other than a woman's face and hands, although scholarly interpretations of the \"\" and have always tended to vary, with some more or less strict than others.\n\n\"The first Ottoman Medrese was created in İznik in 1331 and most Ottoman medreses followed the traditions of Sunni Islam.\" \"When an Ottoman sultan established a new medrese, he would invite scholars from the Islamic world—for example, Murad II brought scholars from Persia, such as ʻAlāʼ al-Dīn and Fakhr al-Dīn who helped enhance the reputation of the Ottoman medrese\". This reveals that the Islamic world was interconnected in the early modern period as they travelled around to other Islamic states exchanging knowledge. This sense that the Ottoman Empire was becoming modernised through globalization is also recognised by Hamadeh who says: \"Change in the eighteenth century as the beginning of a long and unilinear march toward westernisation reflects the two centuries of reformation in sovereign identity.\"\nİnalcık also mentions that while scholars from for example Persia travelled to the Ottomans in order to share their knowledge, Ottomans travelled as well to receive education from scholars of these Islamic lands, such as Egypt, Persia and Turkestan. Hence, this reveals that similar to today's modern world, individuals from the early modern society travelled abroad to receive education and share knowledge and that the world was more interconnected than it seems. Also, it reveals how the system of \"schooling\" was also similar to today's modern world where students travel abroad to different countries for studies. Examples of Ottoman madaris are the ones built by Mehmed the Conqueror. He built eight madaris that were built \"on either side of the mosque where there were eight higher madaris for specialised studies and eight lower medreses, which prepared students for these.\" The fact that they were built around, or near mosques reveals the religious impulses behind madrasa building and it reveals the interconnectedness between institutions of learning and religion. The students who completed their education in the lower medreses became known as danismends. This reveals that similar to the education system today, the Ottomans' educational system involved different kinds of schools attached to different kinds of levels. For example, there were lower madaris and specialised ones, and for one to get into the specialised area meant that he had to complete the classes in the lower one in order to adequately prepare himself for higher learning.\nThis is the rank of madaris in the Ottoman Empire from the highest ranking to the lowest: (From İnalcık, 167).\n\nAlthough Ottoman madaris had a number of different branches of study, such as calligraphic sciences, oral sciences, and intellectual sciences, they primarily served the function of an Islamic centre for spiritual learning. \"The goal of all knowledge and in particular, of the spiritual sciences is knowledge of God.\" Religion, for the most part, determines the significance and importance of each science. As İnalcık mentions: \"Those which aid religion are good and sciences like astrology are bad.\"\nHowever, even though mathematics, or studies in logic were part of the madrasa's curriculum, they were all centred around religion. Even mathematics had a religious impulse behind its teachings. \"The Ulema of the Ottoman medreses held the view that hostility to logic and mathematics was futile since these accustomed the mind to correct thinking and thus helped to reveal divine truths\" – key word being \"divine\". İnalcık also mentions that even philosophy was only allowed to be studied so that it helped to confirm the doctrines of Islam.\" Hence, madaris – schools were basically religious centres for religious teachings and learning in the Ottoman world. Although scholars such as Goffman have argued that the Ottomans were highly tolerant and lived in a pluralistic society, it seems that schools that were the main centres for learning were in fact heftily religious and were not religiously pluralistic, but centred around Islam. Similarly, in Europe \"Jewish children learned the Hebrew letters and texts of basic prayers at home, and then attended a school organised by the synagogue to study the Torah.\" Wiesner-Hanks also says that Protestants also wanted to teach \"proper religious values.\" This shows that in the early modern period, Ottomans and Europeans were similar in their ideas about how schools should be managed and what they should be primarily focused on. Thus, Ottoman madaris were very similar to present day schools in the sense that they offered a wide range of studies; however, these studies, in their ultimate objective, aimed to further solidify and consolidate Islamic practices and theories.\n\nAs is previously mentioned, religion dominated much of the knowledge and teachings that were endowed upon students. \"Religious learning as the only true science, whose sole aim was the understanding of God's word.\" Thus, it is important to keep this impulse in mind when going over the curriculum that was taught.\n\nThe following is taken from İnalcık.\n\nAs with any other country during the Early Modern Period, such as Italy and Spain in Europe, the Ottoman social life was interconnected with the medrese. Medreses were built in as part of a Mosque complex where many programmes, such as aid to the poor through soup kitchens, were held under the infrastructure of a mosque, which reveals the interconnectedness of religion and social life during this period. \"The mosques to which medreses were attached, dominated the social life in Ottoman cities.\" Social life was not dominated by religion only in the Muslim world of the Ottoman Empire; it was also quite similar to the social life of Europe during this period. As Goffman says: \"Just as mosques dominated social life for the Ottomans, churches and synagogues dominated life for the Christians and Jews as well.\" Hence, social life and the medrese were closely linked, since medreses taught many curricula, such as religion, which highly governed social life in terms of establishing orthodoxy. \"They tried moving their developing state toward Islamic orthodoxy.\" Overall, the fact that mosques contained medreses comes to show the relevance of education to religion in the sense that education took place within the framework of religion and religion established social life by trying to create a common religious orthodoxy. Hence, medreses were simply part of the social life of society as students came to learn the fundamentals of their societal values and beliefs.\n\nThere are three different madrasa education systems in Bangladesh: the original darse nizami system, the redesigned nizami system, and the higher syllabus alia nisab. The first two categories are commonly called Qawmi or non-government madaris. Amongst them the most notable are Al-Jamiatul Ahlia Darul Ulum Moinul Islam in Hathazari, Al-Jamiah Al-Islamiah Patiya, in Patiya, and Jamia Tawakkulia Renga Madrasah in Sylhet.\n\nIn 2006 there were 15,000 registered Qawmi madaris with the Befaqul Mudarressin of Bangladesh Qawmi Madrasah Education Board, though the figure could be well over double that number if unregistered madaris were counted.\n\nIn India the majority of these schools follow the Hanafi school of thought. The religious establishment forms part of the mainly two large divisions within the country, namely the Deobandis, who dominate in numbers (of whom the Darul Uloom Deoband constitutes one of the biggest madaris) and the Barelvis, who also make up a sizeable portion (Sufi-oriented). Some notable establishments include: Al Jamiatul Ashrafia, Mubarakpur, Manzar Islam Bareilly, Jamia Nizamdina New Delhi, Jamia Nayeemia Muradabad which is one of the largest learning centres for the Barelvis. The HR ministry of the government of India has recently declared that a Central Madrasa Board would be set up. This will enhance the education system of madaris in India. Though the madaris impart Quranic education mainly, efforts are on to include Mathematics, Computers and science in the curriculum.\nIn July 2015, the state government of Maharashtra created a stir de-recognised madrasa education, receiving critisicm from several political parties with the NCP accusing the ruling BJP of creating Hindu-Muslim friction in the state, and Kamal Farooqui of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board saying it was \"ill-designed\"\nAfter the British occupation of India and the emergence of Darul Ulum Manazar-e Islam Bareilly Sharif, Indian Muslim Scholars left India to establish madaris in other regions of the world. Some of the most notable of these madaris are Darul Ulum Holocombe, which produced scholars such as Shaikh Ibrahim Memon Madani, or Darul Uloom Al-Madania. These offshoot schools symbolise an emotional drive based upon both religion and patriotism that is not evident elsewhere.\n\nThe Arabic and Islamic educational system has also become a channel for employment in the Middle East in modern times in Kerala. Originating in 8th century madaris for primary children, Arabic and Islamic schooling in Kerala was patronised and funded by the British colonial government.\n\nToday, the system of Arabic and Islamic education has grown and further integrated with Kerala government administration. In 2005, an estimated 6,000 Muslim Arabic teachers taught in Kerala government schools, with over 500,000 Muslim students. State-appointed committees, not private mosques or religious scholars outside the government, determine the curriculum and accreditation of new schools and colleges. Primary education in Arabic and Islamic studies is available to Kerala Muslims almost entirely in after-school madrasa programs - sharply unlike full-time madaris common in north India, which may replace formal schooling. Arabic colleges (over eleven of which exist within the state-run University of Calicut and the Kannur University) provide B.A. and Masters' level degrees. At all levels, instruction is co-educational, with many women instructors and professors. Islamic education boards are independently run by the following organizations, accredited by the Kerala state government: Samastha Kerala Islamic Education Board, Kerala Nadvathul Mujahideen, Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, and Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind.\n\nWith Malayam rather than Urdu as the lingua franca of Kerala Muslims, these madaris and colleges are relatively unknown and unlinked from Urdu-based madaris in the rest of India, due to the linguistic barrier.\n\nThe madaris rose as colleges of learning in the Islamic world in the 11th century, though there were institutions of learning earlier. They catered not only to the religious establishment, though that was the dominant influence over them, but also the secular one. To the latter they supplied physicians, administrative officials, judges and teachers. Even to this day many Registered madaris are Working effectively and coping up with Modern Education System such as Jamia-tul-Madina which is a chain of Islamic schools in Pakistan and in European and other countries established by Dawat-e-Islami. The Jamia-tul-Madina are also known as Faizan-e-Madina. Dawat-e-Islami has grown its network of Madaris from Pakistan to Europe.\n\nIn Southeast Asia, Muslim students have a choice of attending a secular government or an Islamic school. Madaris or Islamic schools are known as \"Sekolah Agama\" () in Malaysia and Indonesia, โรงเรียนศาสนาอิสลาม () in Thailand and \"madaris\" in the Philippines. In countries where Islam is not the majority or state religion, Islamic schools are found in regions such as southern Thailand (near the Thai-Malaysian border) and the southern Philippines in Mindanao, where a significant Muslim population can be found.\n\nIn Singapore, madrasahs are private schools which are overseen by Majlis Ugama Islam Singapura (MUIS, \"Islamic Religious Council of Singapore\"). There are six Madrasahs in Singapore, catering to students from Primary 1 to Secondary 4 (and junior college equivalent, or \"Pre-U\", at several schools). Four Madrasahs are coeducational and two are for girls. Students take a range of Islamic Studies subjects in addition to mainstream MOE curriculum subjects and sit for the PSLE and GCE 'O' Levels like their peers. In 2009, MUIS introduced the \"Joint Madrasah System\" (JMS), a joint collaboration of Madrasah Al-Irsyad Al-Islamiah primary school and secondary schools Madrasah Aljunied Al-Islamiah (offering the \"ukhrawi\", or religious stream) and Madrasah Al-Arabiah Al-Islamiah (offering the academic stream). The JMS aims to introduce the International Baccalaureate (IB) programme into the Madrasah Al-Arabiah Al-Islamiah by 2019. Students attending a madrasah are required to wear the traditional Malay attire, including the songkok for boys and tudong for girls, in contrast to mainstream government schools which ban religious headgear as Singapore is officially a secular state. For students who wish to attend a mainstream school, they may opt to take classes on weekends at the \"madrasah\" instead of enrolling full-time.\n\nIn 2004, madaris were mainstreamed in 16 Regions nationwide, primarily in Muslim-majority areas in Mindanao under the auspices of the Department of Education (DepEd). The DepEd adopted \"Department Order No. 51\", which instituted Arabic-language and Islamic Values instruction for Muslim children in state schools, and authorised implementation of the Standard Madrasa Curriculum (SMC) in private-run madaris. While there are state-recognised Islamic schools, such as Ibn Siena Integrated School in the Islamic City of Marawi, Sarang Bangun LC in Zamboanga and SMIE in Jolo, their Islamic studies programmes initially varied in application and content.\n\nSince 2005, the AusAID-funded DepEd project Basic Education Assistance for Mindanao (BEAM) has assisted a group of private madaris seeking a Permit To Operate from the government and implement the SMC. These private madaris are scattered throughout Regions XI, XII and the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao.\n\nIn South Africa, the madaris also play a social and cultural role in giving after-school religious instruction to children of Muslims who attend government or private non-religious schools. However, increasing numbers of more affluent Muslims' children attend fully-fledged private Islamic schools, which combine secular and religious education. Among Muslims of Indian origin, madaris also used to provide instruction in Urdu, although this is far less common today than it used to be.\n\nThe first Madressa established in North America, Al-Rashid Islamic Institute, was established in Cornwall, Ontario in 1983 and has graduates who are Hafiz (Quran) and Ulama. The seminary was established by Mazhar Alam under the direction of his teacher the leading Indian Tablighi scholar Muhammad Zakariya Kandhlawi and focuses on the Hanafi school of thought . Due to its proximity to the US border city of Messina the school has historically had a high ratio of US students. Their most prominent graduate Shaykh Muhammad Alshareef completed his Hifz in the early 1990s then went on to form the AlMaghrib Institute.\n\nOn May 26, 2012, Congressman André Carson of Indiana called for additional Madaris in the United States. There is a madrassa in Queens, NY called Shia Ithna-Asheri Jamaat of New York. à It would be Presently, the Darul Uloom in New York City, an affiliate of Darul Uloom Haqqania in Pakistan, also serves as a madrassa.\n\nWestern commentators post-9/11 often perceive madaris as places of radical revivalism with a connotation of anti-Americanism and radical extremism, frequently associated in the Western press with Wahhabi attitudes toward non-Muslims. In Arabic the word \"madrasa\" simply means \"school\" and does not imply a political or religious affiliation, radical or otherwise. Madaris have varied curricula, and are not all religious. Some madaris in India, for example, have a secularised identity. Although early madaris were founded primarily to gain \"knowledge of God\" they also taught subjects such as mathematics and poetry. For example, in the Ottoman Empire, \"Madrasahs had seven categories of sciences that were taught, such as: styles of writing, oral sciences like the Arabic language, grammar, rhetoric, and history and intellectual sciences, such as logic.\" This is similar to the Western world, in which universities began as institutions of the Catholic church.\n\nThe Yale Center for the Study of Globalization examined bias in United States newspaper coverage of Pakistan since the September 11, 2001 attacks, and found the term has come to contain a loaded political meaning:\n\nWhen articles mentioned \"madrassas,\" readers were led to infer that all schools so-named are anti-American, anti-Western, pro-terrorist centres having less to do with teaching basic literacy and more to do with political indoctrination.\n\nVarious American public figures have, in recent times, used the word in a negative context, including Newt Gingrich,\nDonald Rumsfeld, and Colin Powell.\n\"The New York Times\" published in January 2007 a correction for misusing the word \"madrassa\" in a way that assumed it meant a radical Islamic school. The correction stated:\nAn article [...] about a pointed exchange [...] over a Web site report that said Senator Barack Obama had attended an Islamic school or madrassa in Indonesia as a child referred imprecisely to madrassas. While some [madrassas] teach a radical version of Islam, most historically have not.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8764990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8764990", "title": "Metropolis (free magazine)", "text": "Metropolis (free magazine)\n\nMetropolis is a 32-to-48-page free monthly city guide, news and classified ads glossy magazine published by Japan Partnership KK targeting English-speaking foreigners in Tokyo, Japan. As of April 2011, its circulation was claimed to be 30,000.\n\nThe magazine was first published in 1994 as the \"Tokyo Classified\". Early editions, in the broadsheet style, consisted of classified advertisements sourced from shop notice boards. Initially distributed with the \"Daily Yomiuri\", the publisher created an independent distribution network after the newspaper censored advertisements it found objectionable. The magazine is distributed to companies, embassies, hotels, bars, and restaurants. The magazine was originally owned and operated by Mark and Mary Devlin, renamed \"Metropolis\" in 2001, and sold to Japan Inc. Holdings in 2007.\n\nSince 1999 the magazine hosted an annual Halloween party \"Glitterball\" at Roppongi's Velfarre club, and now that Velfarre is defunct, at other notable clubs around Tokyo. Between 2003 and 2010, \"Metropolis\" donated some of the profits each year to the Make-A-Wish Foundation of Japan and the YMCA.\n\n\"Metropolis\" is owned by Japan Partnership KK (JPI).\n"}
{"id": "20837956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20837956", "title": "Mitigated speech", "text": "Mitigated speech\n\nMitigated speech is a linguistic term describing deferential or indirect speech inherent in communication between individuals of perceived High Power Distance which has been in use for at least two decades with many published references. \n\nThe term was popularized by Malcolm Gladwell in his book, \"Outliers\", where he defines mitigated speech as \"any attempt to downplay or sugarcoat the meaning of what is being said\". He continues with reference to Fischer and Orasanu, to describe 6 degrees of mitigation with which we make suggestions to authority: \n\n\nGladwell brings up the concept in the context of how crews relate to each other in the cockpit of a commercial airliner, graphically illustrating the degree to which mitigated speech can be detrimental in high-risk situations which require clear communication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45626878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45626878", "title": "Mutual combat", "text": "Mutual combat\n\nMutual combat, a term commonly used in US courts, occurs when two individuals intentionally and consensually engage in a fair fight, while not hurting bystanders or damaging property. There is not an official law that forbids mutual combat in the United States. There have been numerous cases where this concept was successfully used in defense of the accused. In some cases, mutual combat may nevertheless result in killings.\n\nIn 2012, MMA fighter Phoenix Jones hit the headlines for engaging in mutual combat. A video of the fight went viral. The Seattle Police Department later defended their officers for not intervening. The same year, Gabriel Aubry and Olivier Martinez engaged in mutual combat and were not charged. In 2014, after Zac Efron had engaged in a fight in Skid Row, law enforcement officials did not make any arrests because they viewed it as mutual combat. Mutual combat has been used to deny damage claims, as a legal defense, and to drop charges against fighting students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18360639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18360639", "title": "National sport", "text": "National sport\n\nA national sport is considered to be an intrinsic part of the culture of a nation. Some sports are \"de facto\" (not established by law) national sports, as baseball is in the United States and Gaelic games are in the Ireland, while others are \"de jure\" (established by law) national sports, as lacrosse and ice hockey are in Canada. These sports do not have to be necessarily the most played or most followed, which would be either association football or cricket in all but a few countries are widely considered to be important to the significant for its culture.\n\nSport declared as national sport by a law\n\n"}
{"id": "3818071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3818071", "title": "Nimboran languages", "text": "Nimboran languages\n\nThe Nimboran languages are a small independent family of Papuan languages in the classification of Malcolm Ross, that had been part of Stephen Wurm's Trans–New Guinea proposal. However, when proto-Nimboran pronouns are reconstructed \"(*genam\" \"I\" and \"kom\" or \"komot\" \"thou\"), they have little resemblance to the proto-TNG pronouns \"*na\" and \"*ga.\" Usher places them in a North Papuan stock that resembles Cowan's proposal.\n\n\nThe pronouns Ross reconstructs for proto-Nimboran are,\n"}
{"id": "53212790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53212790", "title": "Norvegia transcription", "text": "Norvegia transcription\n\nNorvegia (Latin for \"Norway\") is a phonetic transcription system which was developed by Norwegian linguist Johan Storm in 1884. Norvegia is still employed in the teaching of Scandinavian studies at Norwegian universities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6617256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6617256", "title": "Olmec alternative origin speculations", "text": "Olmec alternative origin speculations\n\nOlmec alternative origin speculations are pseudohistorical theories that have been suggested for the formation of Olmec civilization which contradict generally accepted scholarly consensus. These origin theories typically involve contact with Old World societies. Although these speculations have become somewhat well-known within popular culture, particularly the idea of an African connection to the Olmec, they are not regarded as credible by mainstream researchers of Mesoamerica and are considered fringe theories.\n\nThe great majority of scholars who specialize in Mesoamerican history, archaeology and linguistics remain unconvinced by alternative origin speculations. Many are more critical and regard the promotion of such unfounded theories as a form of ethnocentric racism at the expense of indigenous Americans. The consensus view maintained across publications in peer-reviewed academic journals that are concerned with Mesoamerican and other pre-Columbian research is that the Olmec and their achievements arose from influences and traditions that were wholly indigenous to the region, or at least the New World, and there is no reliable material evidence to suggest otherwise. They, and their neighbouring cultures with whom they had contact, developed their own characters which were founded entirely on a remarkably interlinked and ancient cultural and agricultural heritage that was locally shared, but arose independently of any extra-hemispheric influences.\n\nSome writers claim that the Olmecs were related to peoples of Africa-based primarily on their interpretation of facial features of Olmec statues. They additionally contend that epigraphical, genetic, and osteological evidence supports their claims. \nThe idea was first suggested by José Melgar, who discovered the first colossal head at Hueyapan (now Tres Zapotes) in 1862 and subsequently published two papers that attributed this head to a \"Negro race.\" The view was espoused in the early 20th century by Leo Wiener and others. Some modern proponents such as Ivan Van Sertima and Clyde Ahmad Winters have identified the Olmecs with the Mandé people of West Africa.\n\nSome researchers claim that the Mesoamerican writing systems are related to African scripts. In the early 19th century, Constantine Samuel Rafinesque proposed that the Maya inscriptions were probably related to the Libyco-Berber writing of Africa. Leo Wiener and others claim that various Olmec and Epi-Olmec symbols are similar to those found in the Vai script (a relatively modern script in Liberia which may have Cherokee influence), in particular, the symbols on the Tuxtla Statuette, Teo Mask, Cascajal Block, and the celts in Offering 4 at La Venta.\n\nThese assertions have found no support among Mesoamerican researchers. While mainstream scholars have made significant progress translating the Maya script, researchers have yet to translate Olmec glyphs.\n\nGenetic and immunological studies over the past two decades have failed to yield evidence of precolumbian African contributions to the indigenous populations of the Americas.\n\nAndrzej Wiercinski claims that some of the Olmecs were of African origin. He supports this claim with cranial evidence from two Mesoamerican sites: Tlatilco and Cerro de las Mesas. Tlatilco is a site in the Valley of Mexico. Although outside the Olmec heartland, Olmec influences appear in the architectural record. The crania were from the Pre-Classic period, contemporary with the Olmec. Cerro de las Mesa is within the Olmec heartland, although according to Wiercinski, \"the series . . . is dated on the Classic period.\" The Classic period is generally defined to start around AD 250, or 600 years after the end of the Olmec culture.\n\nTo determine the racial heritage of the skeletons, Wiercinski used classic diagnostic traits, determined by craniometric and cranioscopic methods, as well as the Polish Comparative-Morphological School skeletal reference collection. These measurements were then compared against three crania sets from Poland, Mongolia and Uganda to represent three racial categories which allowed Wiercinski to sort each skull into one or more racial categories.\n\nBased on his comparisons, Wiercinski found that 14% of the skeletons from Tlatilco and 4.5% of the skeletons from Cerro de las Mesas had elements of \"Black\" racial composition.\n\nIn the last section of his paper, Wiercinski compared the physiognomy of the skeletons to corresponding examples of Olmec sculptures and bas-reliefs on the stelas. For example, Wiercinski states that the colossal Olmec heads represent the \"Dongolan\" type. The empirical frequencies of the Dongolan type at Tlatilco calculated by Wiercinski was 0.231, more than twice as high as Wiercinski's theoretical figure of 0.101, for the presence of Dongolans at Tlatilco.\n\nWiercinski summarizes his research by offering the following \"ethnogenetical hypotheses\":\n\n\nWiercinski's research methods and conclusions are not accepted by the vast majority of Mesoamerican scholars, in part because of his reliance on the Polish Comparative-Morphological methodology which limits the placement of skull types within a very narrow spectrum that is often within Caucasian, Negroid, and Mongoloid. Native Americans are thus made to fit within these groups which often yields false and contradictory assumptions as a result of sample bias.\n\nAn interdisciplinary analysis of Native American skulls has shown that there is no real evidence, apart from superficial misjudgments and erroneous conclusions, that Native Americans have any link to an African presence in America before the European encounter.\n\nSome researchers have argued that the Olmec civilization came into existence with the help of Chinese refugees, particularly at the end of the Shang dynasty. In 1975, Betty Meggers of the Smithsonian Institution argued that the Olmec civilization originated due to Shang Chinese influences around 1200 BC. In a 1996 book, Mike Xu, with the aid of Chen Hanping, claimed that the very same La Venta celts discussed above actually bore Chinese characters. These claims are unsupported by mainstream Mesoamerican researchers. The evidence relied on by Mike Xu, including the coincidence of markings on Olmec pottery with those on Chinese oracle bone writings, the significance of jade in both cultures and the shared knowledge of the position of true North, was discussed in an article by Claire Liu in 1997.\n\nIn the Book of Mormon, a text regarded as scripture by churches and members of the Latter Day Saint movement, the Jaredites are described as a people who left the Old World in ancient times and founded a civilization in the Americas. Mainstream American History and Literature specialists place the literary setting for the Book of Mormon among the “Mound-builders” of North America. The work is therefore classified in the American “Mound-builder” genre of the 19th century. LDS scholars and authors seek to demonstrate that events described in the Book of Mormon have a literal foundation. A popular Book of Mormon geography model places the scene of the Jaredite arrival and subsequent development, in lands around the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in Mesoamerica. The tradition leading to this Central American model, however, does not clearly originate with the Book of Mormon (first published in 1830) but with enthusiastic interest in John Lloyd Stephens’ 1841 bestseller, \"Incidents of travel in Central America, Chiapas and Yucatan\". LDS founder Joseph Smith Jr. placed the arrival of the Jaredites in “the lake country of America” (region of Lake Ontario), allowing for the eventual migration of Book of Mormon peoples to Mexico and Central America.\n\nSome LDS scholars identify the Olmec civilization with the Jaredites, citing similarities and noting that the period in which the Olmecs flourished and later declined corresponds roughly with the Jaredite civilization timeline, although most disagree with this idea.\n\nAccording to Michael Coe, explorer and cultural diffusionist Thor Heyerdahl claimed that at least some of the Olmec leadership had Nordic ancestry, a view at least partly inspired by the bearded figure, often referred to as \"Uncle Sam\", carved into La Venta Stela 3, whose apparent aquiline nose has been cited as possible evidence for ancient visitors to the Americas from the Old World:\"The presence of Uncle Sam inspired Thor Heyerdahl, the Norwegian explorer and author of \"Kon Tiki,\" among others to claim a Nordic ancestry for at least some of the Olmec leadership... [However], it is extremely misleading to use the testimony of artistic representations to prove ethnic theories. The Olmec were American Indians, not Negroes (as Melgar had thought) or Nordic supermen.\"\n\nThe Olmec Football Player is a 1980 short story by Katherine MacLean. In it, at least one of the Olmec colossal heads depicts an African-American college student who traveled back in time while wearing his football helmet.\n\n"}
{"id": "48558222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48558222", "title": "Orientations", "text": "Orientations\n\nOrientations is a monthly magazine of the arts of East Asia, Southeast Asia and the Indian Subcontinent, that has been published since 1970. The magazine is published in Hong Kong by Yifawn Lee and edited by Annie Knibb.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14551000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14551000", "title": "Panethnicity", "text": "Panethnicity\n\nPanethnicity is a political neologism used to group various ethnic groups together based on their related cultural origins; geographic, linguistic, religious, or 'racial' similarities are often used alone or in combination to draw panethnic boundaries. \nThe term panethnic was used extensively during mid-twentieth century anti-colonial/national liberation movements. In the United States, Yen Espiritu popularized the term and coined the nominal term panethnicity in reference to Asian Americans, a racial category composed of disparate ethnic groups having in common only their origin in Asia. \n\nIt has since seen some use as a replacement of race; for example, the aforementioned Asian Americans can be described as \"a panethnicity\" of various unrelated peoples of Asia, which are nevertheless perceived as a distinguishable group within the larger multiracial North American society.\n\nMore recently the term has also come to be used in contexts outside multiculturalism in US society, as a general replacement for terms like ethnolinguistic group or racial group.\n\nThe concept is to be distinguished from \"pan-nationalism\", which similarly groups related ethnicities but in the context of either ethnic nationalism (e.g. Pan-Arabism, Pan-Celticism, Pan-Germanism, Pan-Iranism, Pan-Slavism, Pan-Turkism), or civic nationalism (e.g. Pan-Africanism).\n\nPanethnicity has allowed for Asian Americans to unite based on similar historical relations with the US, such as US military presence in their native country. The Asian American panethnic identity has evolved to become a means for immigrant groups such as Asian Americans to unite in order to gain political strength in numbers.\n\nPanethnic labels are often, though not always, created and employed by outsiders of the group that is being defined panethnically. Mainstream institutions and political policies often play a big role in the labeling of panethnic groups. They often enact policies that deal with specific groups of people, and panethnic groups are one way to group large numbers of people. Public policy might dole out resources or make deals with multiple groups, viewing them all as one large entity.\n\nIn the case of \"Hispanics/Latinos\", their categorization into a panethnicity is applied irrespective of the country of origin (such as Mexican, Peruvian, Argentine, Dominican, Spaniard, etc.) or the racial origins (white, mestizo, mulatto, black, Amerindian) of those people grouped into the \"Hispanic/Latino\" panethnicity. Likewise, disparate populations from East Asia and South Asia are often indiscriminately lumped under a broader Asian American designation.\n\n"}
{"id": "15050850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15050850", "title": "Proceedings of the USSR Academy of Sciences", "text": "Proceedings of the USSR Academy of Sciences\n\nThe Proceedings of the USSR Academy of Sciences (, Doklady Akademii Nauk SSSR (DAN SSSR), ) was a Soviet journal that was dedicated to publishing original, academic research papers in physics, mathematics, chemistry, geology, and biology. It was first published in 1933 and ended in 1992 with volume 322, issue 3.\n\nToday, it is continued by Doklady Akademii Nauk (), which began publication in 1992. The journal is also known as the \"Proceedings of the Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS)\".\n\n\"Doklady\" has had a complicated publication and translation history. A number of translation journals exist which publish selected articles from the original by subject section; these are listed below.\n\nThe Russian Academy of Sciences dates from 1724, with a continuous series of variously named publications dating from 1726.\n\n\"Doklady Akademii Nauk SSSR-Comptes Rendus de l'Académie des Sciences de l'URSS, Seriya A\" first appeared in 1925 publishing original, academic research papers in the sciences, mathematics and technology in Russian or very occasionally in English, French or German.\n\n\"Novaia Seriya\" replaced \"Seriya A\" in 1933, with articles published in Russian and immediately followed by a translation into English, French, or German.\n\nIn 1935, with v.3(8), \"Comptes Rendus de l'Académie des Sciences de l'URSS\" was split off as a separate journal that continued publishing corresponding Doklady translations \nuntil 1947, when it ceased publication. The change in volume numbering with 1935, v.3(8) virtually renumbered: 1933; 1934, v.1-4; and 1935, v.1-2, to: v. 1, 1933; v.2-5, 1934; and v.6-7, 1935.\n\n\"Doklady Akademii Nauk SSSR\" continued publication until 1992, when it changed title to \"Doklady Akademii Nauk\". \nSome \"Comptes Rendus (Doklady)...\" articles also appear to have been published in European journals, and Reaxys/Beilstein and Berichte der Deutschen Chemischen Gesellschaft (Chemische Berichte), Web of Science, Chemical Abstracts (SciFinder) and \"Doklady\" all use different transliteration schemes. \nAn excellent review of the multiplicity of national/international transliteration schemes is given by Hoseh.\n\nSciFinder incorrectly assigned \"Doklady Akademii Nauk SSSR, Seriya A\" to articles published between 1933-1935, v.2 in \"Doklady Akademii Nauk SSSR\" and to articles published between 1935, v.3(8) to v.56(2), 1947 in \"Comptes Rendus de l'Académie des Sciences de l'URSS\". The print Chemical Abstracts provides the correct journal title. Scifinder records for articles published in 1935, v.3(8), 1935 are inconsistently shown as either v.3 or v.8. SciFinder records also do not consistently provide both the Russian and English, French or German pagination for the 1933-1935, v.2 articles. \nWeb of Science adds a further complication by incorrectly omitting (Doklady) from the journal title, \nwhile Reaxys/Beilstein incorrectly gives Chemische Berichte as the journal title for articles appearing in Berichte der Deutschen Chemischen Gesellschaft.\n\nRecords in SciFinder and INSPEC for articles published in 1933; 1934, v.1-4; and 1935, v.1-2, are shown in Web of Science as v.1, 1933 – v.7, 1935, because the Web of Science records were indexed for the Century of Science from library volumes that had been subsequently renumbered by the cooperating library.\n\nEnglish translations of \"Doklady\" articles began again in 1956, when the American Institute of Physics began publishing \"Soviet Physics - Doklady\". Other publications soon followed and within a few years most Doklady subject sections were available in English translation.\n\nDoklady translation journals are as of 2013 published by Pleiades Publishing, Ltd and distributed online by Springer Science+Business Media. The online translation journals now only publish \"selected\" articles from the original Russian language journal, which is also available online from 2006.\n\nDetermining the appropriate English translation journal for articles published in ‘Doklady’ is often problematic.\n\nOne approach is to check the Russian Doklady issue contents page to identify the subject section and then determine in which translation journal the article was published. The translation journal’s contents pages will provide a concordance linking the ‘Doklady’ page numbers with the ‘translation journal’ page numbers.\n\nAnother approach is to search SciFinder for the original article, which may show the Doklady subject section, since Chemical Abstracts only indexed the original Russian language articles until 1995.\n\nSeveral journals of translations exist, each containing articles that pertain to a particular subject.\n\nIncorporated into Doklady Biochemistry & Biophysics.\n\n(Biochemistry, Biophysics, Molecular Biology. Incorporating Doklady Biochemistry and Doklady Biophysics.\n\nIts first issue, Jan/Jun 1964, through to the June 1965 issue was called \"Proceedings of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR. Botanical Sciences Sections\" and was published by Consultants Bureau Enterprises. Afterward it was published by Consultants Bureau as \"Doklady. Botanical Sciences Sections\" (ISSN 0012-4982).\n\nNote that volumes 142-153 (1962–1963) were also called \"Doklady. Biological Sciences Sections\".\n\nChemical Technology. Incorporated into Doklady Chemistry.\n\nCovers chemistry and chemical technology. Incorporating Doklady Chemical Technology.\n\nThis journal, also called \"Proceedings of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR. Geological Sciences Sections\" and \"Proceedings of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR. Geochemistry Sections\", was published bimonthly as ISSN 0012-494X. Its first issue, Jan/Feb 1959, through to the July/Aug 1959 issue, was published by Consultants Bureau. The Sept/Oct 1959 to Nov/Dec 1961 issues were published by Consultants Bureau Enterprises. Scripta Technica, Inc then published it from 1962 to 1966. Finally, the American Geological Institute published it from 1967 to 1972.\n\nThis was published by the American Geological Institute from 1973 to 1985.\n\nThis journal, published bimonthy as ISSN 0891-5571, was published by Scripta Technica in cooperation with the American Geological Institute and American Geophysical Union from 1986 to 1993.\n\nCovers geochemistry, geography, geology, geophysics, hydrogeology, lithology, mineralogy,\npaleontology, petrography, oceanology, soil science.\n\nThis was published by the American Mathematical Society as ISSN 0038-5573. It contained translations of the mathematics sections of volumes 130-220 (1960-early 1975).\n\nThis was published by the American Mathematical Society as ISSN 0197-6788. It first appeared in 1979 as volume 20, and ceased in 1992 with volume 45, issue 1. The journal contained translations of the mathematics sections of volumes 244–322 of \"DAN SSSR\" (1979–end).\n\nCovers mathematics.\n\nCovers physical chemistry.\n\n\"Doklady Physics\" covers aerodynamics, astronomy, astrophysics, cosmology, crystallography, cybernetics and control theory, fluid mechanics, heat engineering, hydraulics, mathematical physics, mechanics, physics, power engineering, technical physics, theory of elasticity.\n\nIncorporated into Doklady Earth Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "24687279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24687279", "title": "Rob Roy Way", "text": "Rob Roy Way\n\nThe Rob Roy Way is a Scottish long distance footpath that runs from Drymen in Stirling to Pitlochry in Perth and Kinross. The path was created in 2002, and takes its name from Rob Roy MacGregor, a Scottish folk hero and outlaw of the early 18th century. It traverses countryside that he knew and travelled frequently. The route crosses the Highland Boundary Fault, a geological fault where the Highlands meet the Lowlands. Views from the trail overlook Loch Lubnaig, Loch Earn, Loch Venachar and Loch Tay. The way is in length if the direct route along the southern shore of Loch Tay and the River Tay is followed between Ardtalnaig and Aberfeldy. A optional loop also link these places via Amulree: choosing this option increases the length by a further to . \n\nThe Rob Roy Way was designated as one of Scotland's Great Trails by Scottish Natural Heritage in spring 2012, and also links to two further Great Trails, meeting the Great Trossachs Path near Callander, and the West Highland Way just north of Drymen. The Rob Roy Way also shares sections of route with Route 7 of the National Cycle Network, which also links Drymen and Pitlochry. Shared sections include the minor road on the south side of Loch Tay and the section following the route of the former Callander and Oban Railway, including Glen Ogle viaduct.\n\nBesides Drymen and Pitlochry, the way passes through Aberfoyle, Callander, Strathyre, Killin, Amulree and Aberfeldy.\n\nAbout 3,000 people use the path every year, of whom about 450 complete the entire route. \n\n"}
{"id": "13222289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13222289", "title": "Roman concrete", "text": "Roman concrete\n\nRoman concrete, also called opus caementicium, was a material used in construction during the late Roman Republic until the fading of the Roman Empire. Roman concrete was based on a hydraulic-setting cement. Recently, it has been found that it materially differs in several ways from modern concrete which is based on Portland cement. Roman concrete is durable due to its incorporation of volcanic ash, which prevents cracks from spreading. By the middle of the 1st century, the material was used frequently, often brick-faced, although variations in aggregate allowed different arrangements of materials. Further innovative developments in the material, called the Concrete Revolution, contributed to structurally complicated forms, such as the Pantheon dome, the world's largest and oldest unreinforced concrete dome.\n\nRoman concrete was normally faced with stone or brick, and interiors might be further decorated by stucco, fresco paintings, or thin slabs of fancy colored marbles. Made up of aggregate and cement, like modern concrete, it differed in that the aggregate pieces were typically far larger than in modern concrete, often amounting to rubble, and as a result it was laid rather than poured. Some Roman concretes were able to be set underwater, which was useful for bridges and other waterside construction.\n\nIt is uncertain when Roman concrete was developed, but it was clearly in widespread and customary use from about 150 BC; some scholars believe it was developed a century before that.\n\nVitruvius, writing around 25 BC in his \"Ten Books on Architecture\", distinguished types of aggregate appropriate for the preparation of lime mortars. For structural mortars, he recommended pozzolana (\"pulvis puteolanus\" in Latin), the volcanic sand from the beds of Pozzuoli, which are brownish-yellow-gray in color in that area around Naples, and reddish-brown near Rome. Vitruvius specifies a ratio of 1 part lime to 3 parts pozzolana for cement used in buildings and a 1:2 ratio of lime to pozzolana for underwater work, essentially the same ratio mixed today for concrete used in marine locations.\n\nBy the middle of the first century, the principles of underwater construction in concrete were well known to Roman builders. The city of Caesarea was the earliest known example to have made use of underwater Roman concrete technology on such a large scale.\n\nFor rebuilding Rome after the fire in 64 AD, which destroyed large portions of the city, Nero's new building code largely called for brick-faced concrete. This appears to have encouraged the development of the brick and concrete industries.\n\nRoman concrete, like any concrete, consists of an aggregate and hydraulic mortar – a binder mixed with water that hardens over time. The aggregate varied, and included pieces of rock, ceramic tile, and brick rubble from the remains of previously demolished buildings.\n\nGypsum and quicklime were used as binders. Volcanic dusts, called pozzolana or \"pit sand\", were favored where they could be obtained. Pozzolana makes the concrete more resistant to salt water than modern-day concrete. The pozzolanic mortar used had a high content of alumina and silica. Tuff was often used as an aggregate.\n\nConcrete, and in particular, the hydraulic mortar responsible for its cohesion, was a type of structural ceramic whose utility derived largely from its rheological plasticity in the paste state. The setting and hardening of hydraulic cements derived from hydration of materials and the subsequent chemical and physical interaction of these hydration products. This differed from the setting of slaked lime mortars, the most common cements of the pre-Roman world. Once set, Roman concrete exhibited little plasticity, although it retained some resistance to tensile stresses.\n\nThe setting of pozzolanic cements has much in common with setting of their modern counterpart, Portland cement. The high silica composition of Roman pozzolana cements is very close to that of modern cement to which blast furnace slag, fly ash, or silica fume have been added. \n\nThe strength and longevity of Roman \"marine\" concrete is understood to benefit from a reaction of seawater with a mixture of volcanic ash and quicklime to create a rare crystal called tobermorite, which may resist fracturing. As seawater percolated within the tiny cracks in the Roman concrete, it reacted with phillipsite naturally found in the volcanic rock and created aluminous tobermorite crystals. The result is a candidate for \"the most durable building material in human history\". In contrast, modern concrete exposed to saltwater deteriorates within decades.\n\nCompressive strengths for modern Portland cements are typically at the 50 MPa level and have improved almost ten-fold since 1860. There are no comparable mechanical data for ancient mortars, although some information about tensile strength may be inferred from the cracking of Roman concrete domes. These tensile strengths vary substantially from the water/cement ratio used in the initial mix. At present, there is no way of ascertaining what water/cement ratios the Romans used, nor are there extensive data for the effects of this ratio on the strengths of pozzolanic cements.\n\nFor an environment as prone to earthquakes as the Italian peninsula, interruptions and internal constructions within walls and domes created discontinuities in the concrete mass. Portions of the building could then shift slightly when there was movement of the earth to accommodate such stresses, enhancing the overall strength of the structure. It was in this sense that bricks and concrete were flexible. It may have been precisely for this reason that, although many buildings sustained serious cracking from a variety of causes, they continue to stand to this day.\n\nAnother technology used to improve the strength and stability of concrete was its gradation in domes. One example is the Pantheon, where the aggregate of the upper dome region consists of alternating layers of light tuff and pumice, giving the concrete a density of 1,350 kg/m. The foundation of the structure used travertine as an aggregate, having a much higher density of 2,200 kg/m.\n\nRecent scientific breakthroughs examining Roman concrete have been gathering media and industry attention. Because of its unusual durability, longevity and lessened environmental footprint, corporations and municipalities are starting to explore the use of Roman-style concrete in North America, substituting the coal fly ash with volcanic ash that has similar properties. Proponents claim that concrete made with volcanic ash can cost up to 60% less because it requires less cement, and that it has a smaller environmental footprint due to its lower cooking temperature and much longer lifespan. Usable examples of Roman concrete exposed to harsh marine environments have been found to be 2000 years old with little or no wear.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "684681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=684681", "title": "Royal Academy of Dance", "text": "Royal Academy of Dance\n\nThe Royal Academy of Dance (RAD) is a UK-based examination board specialising in dance education and training, with an emphasis on classical ballet. The RAD was founded in London, England in 1920 as the Association of Teachers of Operatic Dancing, and was granted a Royal Charter in 1935. Queen Elizabeth II is patron of the RAD, and Darcey Bussell was elected to serve as President in 2012, succeeding Antoinette Sibley who served as President for 21 years.\n\nThe RAD was created with the objective to improve the standard of ballet teaching in the UK and, in pursuit of that goal, a new teaching method and dance technique was devised for the Academy by a group of eminent European dancers. The RAD is one of the largest dance organisations in the world with over 14,000 members in 79 countries, including about 7,500 who hold Registered Teacher Status. There are currently about 1,000 students in full-time or part-time teacher training programmes with the RAD, and each year about 250,000 candidates enter RAD examinations worldwide.\n\nRAD exams are recognised by the national qualifications regulators of England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Scotland, with selected exams also carrying a UCAS tariff towards university admission. The RAD is also a validated awarding body of the Council for Dance Education and Training. The RAD works in partnership with the International Dance Teachers' Association. Royal Academy of Dance is charity 312826 registered in England and Wales. Royal Academy of Dance Enterprises Ltd is a wholly owned subsidiary of the RAD, which sells Academy branded merchandise, with all profits being gift-aided to the RAD.\n\nOn 18 July 1920, Phillip J. S. Richardson, then Editor of \"Dancing Times\" magazine, organised a dinner for eminent dance professionals at the former Trocadero Restaurant in Piccadilly. The diners included five special guests, representing the principal methods of ballet training in use at that time.\n\n\nOther guests included Ninette de Valois, the founder of England's Royal Ballet company, and Anton Dolin, the co-founder of English National Ballet. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the poor quality of dance training in Britain at that time and following further meetings, the Association of Teachers of Operatic Dancing of Great Britain was formed, with Adeline Genée as its first President. The Association would be the predecessor of the RAD.\n\nIn 1921, the Association established headquarters at the offices of \"Dancing Times\" magazine in London and the first Elementary, Intermediate and Advanced level examinations were held in the years that followed, with the first Children's syllabus being published and then examined in 1923 and 1924. In 1927 a scholarship scheme was introduced for students studying dance with an Association member and in 1928, Queen Mary consented to become Patron of the Association of Teachers of Operatic Dancing.\n\nIn November 1930, the first issue of \"Dance Gazette\" was published containing a historical review of the Association's first ten years. 'Dance Gazette' is still the official magazine of the RAD, being distributed quarterly to all fully paid members. Since 2011, it is also available to buy in selected branches of WHSmith in the UK. In 1931, the first Genée International Ballet Competition for female dancers was held in London, with awards for male dancers being introduced later in 1939. The competition is the RAD's flagship annual event, named after Dame Adeline Genée DBE and now one of the most prestigious dance competitions in the world. The competition was introduced as an additional incentive for candidates who had passed the Solo Seal examination, and has taken place almost every year since 1931, even during the Second World War. In 1934, the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden agreed to an alliance with the Association and a Grand Council of prestigious men & women was formed to act as a governing body to advise the executive committee.\n\nIn 1935 King George V approved the granting of a Royal Charter for the Association of Teachers of Operatic Dancing. The charter was eventually affixed with his Great Seal in 1936, and the Association of Teachers of Operatic Dancing officially became the 'Royal Academy of Dancing' (RAD). The following year in 1937, a coat of arms was designed by the College of Arms in London.\n\nThe RAD coat of arts was granted by the College of Arms in 1937, designed by the Hon. George Bellew, Somerset Herald of \nArms and Registrar. The crest at the top of the coat of arms is a figure of Terpsichore, one of the Muses from Greek mythology, representing dance. The supporter at either side of the shield is a winged doe, symbolising lightness and grace of movement. The Escutcheon shows a pentagram symbolising health, with a wavy and zigzag line conveying the movement of dancing. The motto 'Salus et Felicitas’ translates to mean health and happiness.\n\nIn 1950, founder President of the RAD Adeline Genée was appointed a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the New Year Honours List. Further honours were awarded to members of the Academy in 1951, with Ninette de Valois being appointed a Dame, Philip Richardson being awarded an Order of the British Empire (OBE) and Margot Fonteyn awarded a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE). Following the death of Queen Mary in 1953, Queen Elizabeth II consented to become the Royal Patron of the Royal Academy of Dancing and Dame Adeline Genée instituted the Queen Elizabeth II Coronation Award to mark the occasion. The award is presented annually in recognition of outstanding services to the art of ballet. The first recipient was Dame Ninette de Valois, founder of The Royal Ballet Company. The following is a list of selected recipients of the award.\n\nDame Adeline Genée retired as President of the RAD in 1954 and Dame Margot Fonteyn was elected as her successor. The leading Principal dancer of the Royal Ballet at that time and considered the greatest Ballerina of her generation, Fonteyn was later appointed Prima Ballerina Assoluta of the Royal Ballet by Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nIn 1963, the Academy was granted charitable status. In 1965, the first RAD summer school was held at the Elmhurst Ballet School in Camberley, Surrey. Teachers and dancers attended the summer school from the United States, Canada, New Zealand as well as the UK. In 1968, Dame Margot Fonteyn devised a new children’s syllabus, which would become the basis for lower graded examinations.\n\nOn 23 April 1970, Founder President of the Academy, Dame Adeline Genée died at the age of 92 and in 1972, the RAD moved into its current headquarters in Battersea Square, London. The building was fully refurbished to provide high quality dance facilities and was officially opened by Queen Elizabeth II in 1974. The following year in 1975, the Academy established the Professional Dancer's Teaching Diploma, an intensive course for professional ballet dancers and other dance professionals to gain registered teacher status with the RAD and in 1976, the RAD's teacher training schemes were organised into what is now officially the Faculty of Education of the RAD.\n\nIn 1979, a new bursary was founded and named in honour of Phyllis Bedells, a founder member and former vice-president of the RAD. The bursary of £1,000 is held annually, awarded for further training in the Academy’s method and is awarded to young dancers who are under 17 years of age and have passed RAD Advanced 1 with Distinction but have not entered for the Advanced 2 examination. Past winners have gone on to win medals in very high-profile competitions, such as the Genée International Ballet Competition, and to dance with world-renowned companies including the Australian Ballet, Dutch National Ballet, English National Ballet, London City Ballet, Maurice Béjart and The Royal Ballet. Payment of the Bursary can be offset against existing tuition fees where the winner may be studying, or against material / equipment needed for the winner to continue their training.\n\nIn 1983, the RAD opened its first International headquarters in Darlinghurst, New South Wales, Australia. Since that time, the RAD has opened offices worldwide, including Brazil, China, Germany, Greece, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, United Arab Emirates and the United States of America,\n\nIn 1990, a new studio complex was opened at RAD headquarters. Titled the 'Fonteyn Centre', it was opened by Queen Elizabeth II. The following year in 1991, Dame Margot Fonteyn died on the 21 February in Panama City and Antoinette Sibley was elected as the RAD's third President. Also in 1991, the 'Graded Examination Syllabus' was introduced, with Grades 6, 7 and 8 being introduced later in 1992. The three-year teacher training course was also amended in 1992, being replaced by the RAD's first full-time Degree qualification, the BA (Hons) Art & Teaching of Ballet (now the BA in Ballet Education).\n\nThe RAD celebrated its 75th Anniversary in 1995, the event being marked by events throughout the world. In 1996, RAD President Antoinette Sibley was appointed a Dame in the Queen's New Year Honours List and the Academy's first 12 degree students attended their graduation at Durham Castle. In 1997, the Benesh Institute was incorporated into the RAD and in 1999, The 'Faculty of Education' was established with further teaching qualifications being launched, validated by the University of Durham.\n\nOn 20 December 2000, the RAD officially adopted its current title, \"Royal Academy of Dance\" and in the same year, qualifications were established for students studying 'Benesh Movement Notation'.\n\nIn 2010 the RAD became an Accredited Institute of the University of Surrey.\n\nOn 4 January 2011 in London and 17 January in Sydney, the RAD launched its new Intermediate Foundation & Intermediate syllabi. RAD Grades 1-8 and the first five levels of the Vocational Grades were accredited by the Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation (Ofqual) in England with the RAD as an Awarding Organisation, and the Academy also achieved SQA Accreditation (Scottish Qualifications Authority Accreditation) for RAD exams. UCAS tariff points for Graded and Vocational Graded Examinations in Dance at Level 3 were confirmed in August, meaning those candidates who have achieved a Pass or higher at Grades 6-8, Intermediate or Advanced Foundation can use their exam result as contributing towards their points tariff when applying to a university or Higher Education institution in the UK. The Genée International Ballet Competition 2011 was held for the first time in Cape Town, South Africa, at Artscape Theatre Centre, looking to present the competition in New Zealand in 2012. The first ever Dance Proms took place on Sunday 13 November at the Royal Albert Hall, London, as a partnership project between the International Dance Teachers Association, the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing, RAD and the Royal Albert Hall working together in celebration of dance and hosting more than 450 young dancers on the stage. UK and Republic of Ireland members from the three dance organisations were invited to video and submit a short dance piece online, and a variety of acts were then chosen both by an esteemed panel of professionals and through a public vote to perform live at the Royal Albert Hall.\n\nThe RAD offers two examination syllabi, which are suitable for both male and female students and form the basis of the RAD's work in the UK and overseas. Each programme consists of a series of progressively more difficult practical examinations.\nGrades 1-8 and the first five levels of the Vocational Grades are accredited by the Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation (Ofqual) in England, the Department for Children, Education, Lifelong Learning and Skills (DCELLS) in Wales and the Council for the Curriculum, Examinations & Assessment (CCEA) in Northern Ireland. These organisations are the Government approved qualifications regulators for their respective countries. Candidates who successfully pass an RAD examination are awarded credit on the Qualifications and Credit Framework. The Academy also achieves SQA Accreditation (Scottish Qualifications Authority Accreditation) for RAD exams.\n\nIn 2009, the RAD launched a new syllabus at Pre-Primary and Primary level in dance. These two new grades replace the existing Pre-Primary and Primary grades in ballet. The Academy has since launched new work for grades 1-5\n\nThe Graded Examination Syllabus consists of Pre-Primary, Primary, and numbered Grades 1-8. Each grade incorporates classical ballet, free movement and character dance. The syllabus is devised to progress in difficulty from one grade to the next and a student studying the grades in sequence would be expected to develop a greater degree of dance technique at each level.\n\n\nStudents who have studied a complete grade from the syllabus will normally take an examination organised by their dance teacher and held at the teachers studio or a suitable venue hired for the occasion. In the examination, the students perform the relevant grade work for an RAD examiner, who assesses the artistic and technical execution of the grade. A successful candidate receives a certificate printed with their name and the grade passed. They also receive a report detailing what marks were awarded and highlighting which aspects of their performance need further improvement. Unsuccessful candidates receive a report and a certificate of participation. The Pre-Primary grade is devised for younger students who are not old enough to enter the Primary examination. There is no examination offered at this level, however students can take part in a Presentation Class.\n\nPresentation Classes were introduced for students who a dance teacher feels may not benefit from, or be suitable for taking the series of examinations. In a Presentation Class, in contrast to an examination, the teacher and a small audience of spectators are present in the room. The students perform for an examiner but are not assessed. They dance a condensed selection of exercises from the appropriate grade and receive a certificate of participation, which is normally presented by the examiner at the end of the class.\n\nAs a syllabus devised specifically with children in mind, examinations are not compulsory. The entry level of a new student is decided by the dance teacher based upon the child’s age, natural ability for dance or previous examination passes with another dance school or examination board, such as the IDTA or ISTD.\n\nThe Grades are:\n\nThe Vocational Graded Syllabus is designed primarily for older children or young adults who are considering a career in professional dance, as a performer, teacher or in another capacity. The vocational syllabus is technically demanding and comprises only Classical Ballet and Pointe Work. Students choosing to study this series of awards are required to be competent in the fundamentals of ballet technique and movement vocabulary.\n\nUnlike the Graded Examination Syllabus, the vocational grades have to be studied in sequence and the student must successfully pass an examination at each level before progressing onto the next. All vocational examinations are organised by RAD headquarters and instead of being held at a dance teachers own venue, they are held in major cities worldwide. In this situation, the session organiser is responsible for timetabling the examinations, and it is normal for students to dance alongside the students of other dance schools in the examination room. As with the graded syllabus, successful candidates receive a certificate personalised with their name and the level passed. They also receive a report, however for this series of examinations, there is a different marking system and assessment criteria.\n\nStudents studying the vocational syllabus are expected to achieve a high level of technical and artistic ability in ballet and it can take a great deal of time and commitment to reach the standard required to pass these examinations. Normally, a student will begin studying the Vocational Graded Syllabus after completing Grade 5 in the Graded Examination Syllabus, however some students will continue to study the graded syllabus at the same time. The Intermediate Foundation and Advanced Foundation examinations are the only optional exams in this series of awards. They are devised for students who the teacher feels may need more preparation before studying at the higher level, however they are assessed in the same way, certificates awarded in the same way and credits awarded on the National Qualifications Framework.\n\nThe Vocational Grades are:\n\nThe RAD method, is a ballet technique and training system, specially devised by the founders of the RAD, who merged their respective dance methods (Italian, French, Danish and Russian) to create a new style of ballet that is unique to the organisation. The RAD method produces a style of ballet that has become recognised internationally as the English style of ballet.\n\nThe most identifiable aspect of the RAD method is the attention to detail when learning the basic steps, and the progression in difficulty is often very slow. While the difficulty of an exercise may only increase slightly from grade to grade, more importance is placed on whether the student is performing the step with improved technique. For example, plie exercises are employed consistently throughout the lower grades to enable the student to progressively deepen the plie and improve turnout. The principle behind this is that if enough time is spent achieving optimal technique before introducing new vocabulary, the easier it is for the student to learn the harder steps, while exercising basic technique to the maximum at all times.\n\nFrom 1 October 2006, the RAD began a new association with the International Dance Teachers Association, a dance organisation based in Brighton, England. A press release issued to members of each organisation stated that \"the two organisations would embark on a process of working together for the future of dance and to the mutual benefit of their members in both teacher education and training and examinations\".\n\nAs a result of this association, both organisations have formally granted teachers of the respective organisation the opportunity to enter candidates for its examinations thereby ensuring that both organisations recognise the right of qualified teachers to enter candidates for examinations of either awarding body. At the RAD these members are called ‘teachers recognised by mutual agreement’. Whilst the new association is not a merger, it is intended that it will develop co-operation between the two organisations and mutual recognition of the training and qualifications that they both provide.\n\nDance Proms is a partnership project between the IDTA, the ISTD, RAD and the Royal Albert Hall working together in celebration of dance. In 2011, Dance Proms hosted more than 450 young dancers on the stage, showcasing a huge range of dance styles and cultural influences. UK and Republic of Ireland members from the three dance organisations are invited to video and submit a short dance piece online, featuring original choreography by themselves or their students in any dance genre, either as a solo, duet, or group performance. Acts are then chosen both by an esteemed panel of professionals and through a public vote to be performed live at the Royal Albert Hall, one of the world’s most iconic and prestigious venues. Dance Proms is designed to showcase the high standards of dance and dance teaching of the organisations and their members, and to raise standards and increase participation in and appreciation of dance in the UK.\n\nThe Royal Academy of Dance is currently active in over 80 countries worldwide. The following is a list of countries, by region, in which the RAD has active members, including the locations of regional administrative offices:\n\nUK & Ireland\n\nEurope\n\nNorth America\n\nCaribbean, Central and South America\n\nAsia and Pacific\n\nAfrica, Middle East and South Asia\n\n\nBallet Schools & Companies - A number of international ballet schools offer their students the opportunity to take vocational examinations with the RAD. As a result of this, dancers from many of the world's leading ballet companies are also alumni of the RAD. Examples include:\n\n\nIt should be noted that the Royal Academy of Dance is not affiliated to any of these schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25773835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25773835", "title": "Sami cuisine", "text": "Sami cuisine\n\nSami cuisine is the cuisine of peoples from the Sápmi territory of the Sami people, which spans Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia. Its traditional cuisine of each area has individual traits. \n\nTraditionally, the cuisine of Sápmi has been based on local materials, like fish, game, reindeer and berries. Berries have been important food, because other kinds of vegetables were not available during the long winters. Nowadays berries are parts of delicate sauces and desserts. The most valued berry of Sápmi is the cloudberry. Milk consumption varied among groups of Sami, but was not very common in general. \n\nIn eastern parts of Sápmi, reindeer herding became a way of life in the 19th century and, before that, people were hunters and fishers. These days reindeer is essential for Sami cuisine, but game, fish and wild birds are also important. The cuisine of Sápmi consists of a variety of dishes which stem from differences in geography, culture and climate.\n\nReindeer, fish and game meats are staple foods, with thousands of recipes and flavors, although spices other than salt are very rare. The local cuisine varies a lot depending of access to food. Sápmi's history with its many cultural influences has led to an array of dishes. Most dishes are made of reindeer meat, although some also are made of moose or sheep. Smoking and drying have historically been used to preserve meat and fish.\n\nFishes in the mountains and forest areas of Sápmi include Salmon, Common whitefish, Perch, Roach, and Char. Fishes of the coastal areas of Sápmi include Cod.\n\nIn the last decades new influences have been introduced in traditional Sami cooking. A well-known dish of this cross-cooking is the Suovaskebab, which consists of sliced suovasbierggo, cucumber, salad and garlic dressing in a pita bread. The Suovaskebab can be found at festivals and fairs in northern Scandinavia. These days the old food culture is evolving and adapting. Fast food restaurants in Sápmi can have reindeer hamburger on their menus.\n\n"}
{"id": "29301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29301", "title": "Semiotics", "text": "Semiotics\n\nSemiotics (also called semiotic studies) is the study of sign process (semiosis). It is not to be confused with the Saussurean tradition called semiology, which is a subset of semiotics. Semiotics includes the study of signs and sign processes, indication, designation, likeness, analogy, allegory, metonymy, metaphor, symbolism, signification, and communication.\n\nThe semiotic tradition explores the study of signs and symbols as a significant part of communications. Different from linguistics, semiotics also studies non-linguistic sign systems.\n\nSemiotics is frequently seen as having important anthropological and sociological dimensions; for example, the Italian semiotician and novelist Umberto Eco proposed that every cultural phenomenon may be studied as communication. Some semioticians focus on the logical dimensions of the science, however. They examine areas belonging also to the life sciences—such as how organisms make predictions about, and adapt to, their semiotic niche in the world (see semiosis). In general, semiotic theories take \"signs\" or sign systems as their object of study: the communication of information in living organisms is covered in biosemiotics (including zoosemiotics).\n\nThe term derives from the Greek σημειωτικός \"sēmeiōtikos\", \"observant of signs\" (from σημεῖον \"sēmeion\", \"a sign, a mark\") and it was first used in English prior to 1676 by Henry Stubbes (spelt \"semeiotics\") in a very precise sense to denote the branch of medical science relating to the interpretation of signs. John Locke used the term \"sem(e)iotike\" in book four, chapter 21 of \"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding\" (1690). Here he explains how science may be divided into three parts:\n\nLocke then elaborates on the nature of this third category, naming it Σημειωτική (\"Semeiotike\") and explaining it as \"the doctrine of signs\" in the following terms:\n\nIn the nineteenth century, Charles Sanders Peirce defined what he termed \"semiotic\" (which he sometimes spelled as \"semeiotic\") as the \"quasi-necessary, or formal doctrine of signs\", which abstracts \"what must be the characters of all signs used by ... an intelligence capable of learning by experience\", and which is philosophical logic pursued in terms of signs and sign processes. The Peirce scholar and editor Max H. Fisch claimed in 1978 that \"semeiotic\" was Peirce's own preferred rendering of Locke's σημιωτική.\n\nCharles W. Morris followed Peirce in using the term \"semiotic\" and in extending the discipline beyond human communication to animal learning and use of signals.\n\nFerdinand de Saussure, however, founded his semiotics, which he called semiology, in the social sciences:\n\nWhile the Saussurean semiotic is dyadic (sign/syntax, signal/semantics), the Peircean semiotic is triadic (sign, object, interpretant), being conceived as philosophical logic studied in terms of signs that are not always linguistic or artificial. The Peircean semiotic addresses not only the external communication mechanism, as per Saussure, but the internal representation machine, investigating not just sign processes, or modes of inference, but the whole inquiry process in general. Peircean semiotics further subdivides each of the three triadic elements into three sub-types. For example, signs can be icons, indices, and symbols.\n\nYuri Lotman introduced Eastern Europe to semiotics and adopted Locke's coinage as the name to subtitle (\"Σημειωτική\") his founding at the University of Tartu in Estonia in 1964 of the first semiotics journal, \"Sign Systems Studies\".\n\nThomas Sebeok assimilated \"semiology\" to \"semiotics\" as a part to a whole, and was involved in choosing the name \"Semiotica\" for the first international journal devoted to the study of signs.\n\nSaussurean semiotics have been challenged with serious criticism, for example by Jacques Derrida's assertion that signifier and signified are not fixed, coining the expression \"différance\", relating to the endless deferral of meaning, and to the absence of a 'transcendent signified'. For Derrida, 'il n'y a pas de hors-texte' (\"there is nothing outside the text\"). He was in obvious opposition to materialists and marxists who argued that a sign has to point towards a real meaning, and cannot be controlled by the referent's closed-loop references.\n\nThe importance of signs and signification has been recognized throughout much of the history of philosophy, and in psychology as well. Plato and Aristotle both explored the relationship between signs and the world, and Augustine considered the nature of the sign within a conventional system. These theories have had a lasting effect in Western philosophy, especially through scholastic philosophy. (More recently, Umberto Eco, in his \"Semiotics and the Philosophy of Language\", has argued that semiotic theories are implicit in the work of most, perhaps all, major thinkers.)\n\nThe general study of signs that began in Latin with Augustine culminated in Latin with the 1632 \"Tractatus de Signis\" of John Poinsot, and then began anew in late modernity with the attempt in 1867 by Charles Sanders Peirce to draw up a \"new list of categories\". Peirce aimed to base his new list directly upon experience precisely as constituted by action of signs, in contrast with the list of Aristotle's categories which aimed to articulate within experience the dimension of being that is independent of experience and knowable as such, through human understanding.\n\nThe estimative powers of animals interpret the environment as sensed to form a \"meaningful world\" of objects, but the objects of this world (or \"Umwelt\", in Jakob von Uexküll's term,) consist exclusively of objects related to the animal as desirable (+), undesirable (–), or \"safe to ignore\" (0).\n\nIn contrast to this, human understanding adds to the animal \"Umwelt\" a relation of self-identity within objects which transforms objects experienced into \"things\" as well as +, –, 0 objects. Thus, the generically animal objective world as \"Umwelt\", becomes a species-specifically human objective world or \"Lebenswelt\" (life-world), wherein linguistic communication, rooted in the biologically underdetermined \"Innenwelt\" (inner-world) of humans, makes possible the further dimension of cultural organization within the otherwise merely social organization of non-human animals whose powers of observation may deal only with directly sensible instances of objectivity. This further point, that human culture depends upon language understood first of all not as communication, but as the biologically underdetermined aspect or feature of the human animal's \"Innenwelt\", was originally clearly identified by Thomas A. Sebeok. Sebeok also played the central role in bringing Peirce's work to the center of the semiotic stage in the twentieth century, first with his expansion of the human use of signs (\"anthroposemiosis\") to include also the generically animal sign-usage (\"zoösemiosis\"), then with his further expansion of semiosis (based initially on the work of Martin Krampen, but taking advantage of Peirce's point that an interpretant, as the third item within a sign relation, \"need not be mental\") to include the vegetative world (\"phytosemiosis\").\n\nPeirce's distinguished between the interpretant and the interpreter. The interpretant is the internal, mental representation that mediates between the object and its sign. The interpreter is the human who is creating the interpretant. Peirce's \"interpretant\" notion opened the way to understanding an action of signs beyond the realm of animal life (study of \"phytosemiosis\" + \"zoösemiosis\" + \"anthroposemiosis\" = \"biosemiotics\"), which was his first advance beyond Latin Age semiotics. Other early theorists in the field of semiotics include Charles W. Morris. Max Black argued that the work of Bertrand Russell was seminal in the field.\n\nSemioticians classify signs or sign systems in relation to the way they are transmitted (see modality). This process of carrying meaning depends on the use of codes that may be the individual sounds or letters that humans use to form words, the body movements they make to show attitude or emotion, or even something as general as the clothes they wear. To coin a word to refer to a \"thing\" (see lexical words), the community must agree on a simple meaning (a denotative meaning) within their language, but that word can transmit that meaning only within the language's grammatical structures and codes (see syntax and semantics). Codes also represent the values of the culture, and are able to add new shades of connotation to every aspect of life.\n\nTo explain the relationship between semiotics and communication studies, communication is defined as the process of transferring data and-or meaning from a source to a receiver. Hence, communication theorists construct models based on codes, media, and contexts to explain the biology, psychology, and mechanics involved. Both disciplines recognize that the technical process cannot be separated from the fact that the receiver must decode the data, i.e., be able to distinguish the data as salient, and make meaning out of it. This implies that there is a necessary overlap between semiotics and communication. Indeed, many of the concepts are shared, although in each field the emphasis is different. In \"Messages and Meanings: An Introduction to Semiotics\", Marcel Danesi (1994) suggested that semioticians' priorities were to study signification first, and communication second. A more extreme view is offered by Jean-Jacques Nattiez (1987; trans. 1990: 16), who, as a musicologist, considered the theoretical study of communication irrelevant to his application of semiotics.\n\nSemiotics differs from linguistics in that it generalizes the definition of a sign to encompass signs in any medium or sensory modality. Thus it broadens the range of sign systems and sign relations, and extends the definition of language in what amounts to its widest analogical or metaphorical sense. Peirce's definition of the term \"semiotic\" as the study of necessary features of signs also has the effect of distinguishing the discipline from linguistics as the study of contingent features that the world's languages happen to have acquired in the course of their evolutions. From a subjective standpoint, perhaps more difficult is the distinction between semiotics and the philosophy of language. In a sense, the difference lies between separate traditions rather than subjects. Different authors have called themselves \"philosopher of language\" or \"semiotician\". This difference does \"not\" match the separation between analytic and continental philosophy. On a closer look, there may be found some differences regarding subjects. Philosophy of language pays more attention to natural languages or to languages in general, while semiotics is deeply concerned with non-linguistic signification. Philosophy of language also bears connections to linguistics, while semiotics might appear closer to some of the humanities (including literary theory) and to cultural anthropology.\n\nSemiosis or \"semeiosis\" is the process that forms meaning from any organism's apprehension of the world through signs. Scholars who have talked about semiosis in their subtheories of semiotics include C. S. Peirce, John Deely, and Umberto Eco. Cognitive semiotics is combining methods and theories developed in the disciplines of cognitive methods and theories developed in semiotics and the humanities, with providing new information into human signification and its manifestation in cultural practices. The research on cognitive semiotics brings together semiotics from linguistics, cognitive science, and related disciplines on a common meta-theoretical platform of concepts, methods, and shared data.\n\nCognitive semiotics may also be seen as the study of meaning-making by employing and integrating methods and theories developed in the cognitive sciences. This involves conceptual and textual analysis as well as experimental investigations. Cognitive semiotics initially was developed at the Center for Semiotics at Aarhus University (Denmark), with an important connection with the Center of Functionally Integrated Neuroscience (CFIN) at Aarhus Hospital. Amongst the prominent cognitive semioticians are Per Aage Brandt, Svend Østergaard, Peer Bundgård, Frederik Stjernfelt, Mikkel Wallentin, Kristian Tylén, Riccardo Fusaroli, and Jordan Zlatev. Zlatev later in co-operation with Göran Sonesson established CCS (Center for Cognitive Semiotics) at Lund University, Sweden.\n\nSyntactics is the Morris'ean branch of semiotics that deals with the formal properties of signs and symbols; the interrelation of the signs, without regard to meaning. Semantics deals with the relation of signs to their designata and the objects that they may or do denote; the relation between the signs and the objects to which they apply. Finally, pragmatics deals with the biotic aspects of semiosis, with all the psychological, biological, and sociological phenomena that occur in the functioning of signs; the relation between the sign system and its human (or animal) user. Unlike his mentor George Herbert Mead, Morris was a behaviorist and sympathetic to the Vienna Circle positivism of his colleague, Rudolf Carnap. Morris was accused by John Dewey of misreading Peirce.\n\n\nThe flexibility of human semiotics is well demonstrated in dreams. Sigmund Freud spelled out how meaning in dreams rests on a blend of images, affects, sounds, words, and kinesthetic sensations. In his chapter on \"The Means of Representation\" he showed how the most abstract sorts of meaning and logical relations can be represented by spatial relations. Two images in sequence may indicate \"if this, then that\" or \"despite this, that\". Freud thought the dream started with \"dream thoughts\" which were like logical, verbal sentences. He believed that the dream thought was in the nature of a taboo wish that would awaken the dreamer. In order to safeguard sleep, the mindbrain converts and disguises the verbal dream thought into an imagistic form, through processes he called the \"dream-work\".\n\nApplications of semiotics include:\n\nIn some countries, its role is limited to literary criticism and an appreciation of audio and visual media. This narrow focus may inhibit a more general study of the social and political forces shaping how different media are used and their dynamic status within modern culture. Issues of technological determinism in the choice of media and the design of communication strategies assume new importance in this age of mass media.\n\nPublication of research is both in dedicated journals such as \"Sign Systems Studies\", established by Yuri Lotman and published by Tartu University Press; \"Semiotica\", founded by Thomas A. Sebeok and published by Mouton de Gruyter; \"Zeitschrift für Semiotik\"; \"European Journal of Semiotics\"; \"Versus\" (founded and directed by Umberto Eco), et al.; \"The American Journal of Semiotics\"; and as articles accepted in periodicals of other disciplines, especially journals oriented toward philosophy and cultural criticism.\n\nThe major semiotic book series \"Semiotics, Communication, Cognition\", published by De Gruyter Mouton (series editors Paul Cobley and Kalevi Kull) replaces the former \"Approaches to Semiotics\" (more than 120 volumes) and \"Approaches to Applied Semiotics\" (series editor Thomas A. Sebeok). Since 1980 the Semiotic Society of America has produced an annual conference series: \"\".\n\nMarketing is another application of semiotics. Epure, Eisenstat and Dinu (2014) said, \"semiotics allows for the practical distinction of persuasion from manipulation in marketing communication\" (p. 592). Semiotics are used in marketing as a persuasive device to influence buyers to change their attitudes and behaviors in the market place. Two ways that Epure, Eisenstat and Dinu (2014) state that semiotics are used are:\nSemiotics analysis is used by scholars and professional researchers as a method to interpret meanings behind symbols and how the meanings are created. Below is an example of how semiotic analysis is utilized in a research paper published in an academic journal: Educational Research and Reviews.\n\nSemiotics has sprouted subfields including, but not limited to, the following:\n\nPictorial semiotics is intimately connected to art history and theory. It goes beyond them both in at least one fundamental way, however. While art history has limited its visual analysis to a small number of pictures that qualify as \"works of art\", pictorial semiotics focuses on the properties of pictures in a general sense, and on how the artistic conventions of images can be interpreted through pictorial codes. Pictorial codes are the way in which viewers of pictorial representations seem automatically to decipher the artistic conventions of images by being unconsciously familiar with them.\n\nAccording to Göran Sonesson, a Swedish semiotician, pictures can be analyzed by three models: (a) the narrative model, which concentrates on the relationship between pictures and time in a chronological manner as in a comic strip; (b) the rhetoric model, which compares pictures with different devices as in a metaphor; and (c) the laokoon (or laocoon) model, which considers the limits and constraints of pictorial expressions by comparing textual mediums that utilize time with visual mediums that utilize space.\n\nThe break from traditional art history and theory—as well as from other major streams of semiotic analysis—leaves open a wide variety of possibilities for pictorial semiotics. Some influences have been drawn from phenomenological analysis, cognitive psychology, structuralist, and cognitivist linguistics, and visual anthropology and sociology.\n\nOne of the many ways that pictorial semiotics has been changing has been through the use of emojis in email, text or other online conversations. Though not seen as works of art, these small images of happy, sad, winking faces or even a smiling poo image, have made their way into our everyday communication through digital devices. In the early advances of mobile technology and the increasing manner in which such devices are used, many in the linguistic community felt that vital communication cues, such as the importance of nonverbal cues, would be lost. Another concern is that with the high use of these symbols would begin to oversimplify our language to where the language's strength would be lost.\n\nHowever, others have said that the use of emojis in digital conversation has helped to give more clarity to a conversation. Since the ability to read another person's facial expressions, nonverbal cues or tone of voice isn’t possible in a typed message, emojis allow a communicator to convey attitudes and emotions to their message receiver. As for oversimplifying our language, some have argued that perhaps our language is not being simplified, but that new generations are revitalizing the early forms of semiotics like cave paintings or hieroglyphics. As technology advances, so will the use of emojis or possibly a more advanced form of pictorial symbols to use in digital communication.\n\nStudies have shown that semiotics may be used to make or break a brand. Culture codes strongly influence whether a population likes or dislikes a brand's marketing, especially internationally. If the company is unaware of a culture's codes, it runs the risk of failing in its marketing. Globalization has caused the development of a global consumer culture where products have similar associations, whether positive or negative, across numerous markets.\n\nMistranslations may lead to instances of \"Engrish\" or \"Chinglish\", terms for unintentionally humorous cross-cultural slogans intended to be understood in English. This may be caused by a sign that, in Peirce's terms, mistakenly indexes or symbolizes something in one culture, that it does not in another. In other words, it creates a connotation that is culturally-bound, and that violates some culture code. Theorists who have studied humor (such as Schopenhauer) suggest that contradiction or incongruity creates absurdity and therefore, humor. Violating a culture code creates this construct of ridiculousness for the culture that owns the code. Intentional humor also may fail cross-culturally because jokes are not on code for the receiving culture.\n\nA good example of branding according to cultural code is Disney's international theme park business. Disney fits well with Japan's cultural code because the Japanese value \"cuteness\", politeness, and gift giving as part of their culture code; Tokyo Disneyland sells the most souvenirs of any Disney theme park. In contrast, Disneyland Paris failed when it launched as Euro Disney because the company did not research the codes underlying European culture. Its storybook retelling of European folktales was taken as elitist and insulting, and the strict appearance standards that it had for employees resulted in discrimination lawsuits in France. Disney souvenirs were perceived as cheap trinkets. The park was a financial failure because its code violated the expectations of European culture in ways that were offensive.\n\nOn the other hand, some researchers have suggested that it is possible to successfully pass a sign perceived as a cultural icon, such as the Coca-Cola or McDonald's logos, from one culture to another. This may be accomplished if the sign is migrated from a more economically-developed to a less developed culture. The intentional association of a product with another culture has been called Foreign Consumer Culture Positioning (FCCP). Products also may be marketed using global trends or culture codes, for example, saving time in a busy world; but even these may be fine-tuned for specific cultures.\n\nResearch also found that, as airline industry brandings grow and become more international, their logos become more symbolic and less iconic. The iconicity and symbolism of a sign depends on the cultural convention and, are on that ground in relation with each other. If the cultural convention has greater influence on the sign, the signs get more symbolic value.\n\nGraffiti is used by gang members to mark their territory and to warn off rivals. Graffiti is a great example of semiotics and the use of symbols. Police task forces are now starting to use a programming system called GARI, they upload pictures of gang symbols that they find and it helps them to decipher the meaning of the symbols. Gang members use semiotics and symbols for many different reasons, for example: Government-sanctioned graffiti from the city's Department of Public Works, in red, typically indicates an abandoned building, or the stylized SS stands for South Side, a faction of the 18th Street gang based in southern Indianapolis. A rival gang sprayed red Xs over the work as a sign of disrespect.\n\nIn the book \"The Lost Boyz: A Dark Side of Graffiti\" by Justin Rollins it talks about how Rollins started writing on trains at a very early age, because it helped him find himself, he was now a graffiti writer – a somebody. This is true with a lot of symbols. People use symbols to express themselves by getting tattoos or wearing a symbol on their clothing. This helps them to feel like they belong to something or it helps them to express themselves. Gangs also use their clothing as a symbol, they do something unique for their group so that you aware of the gang you are encountering. An example could be a certain pant leg rolled up or wearing a certain color of bandana. The book also talks about how Rollins joined a graffiti gang that was called the WK which stands for Who Kares but it also had a different meaning which was Wanted Kriminals. Many symbols in semiotics theory have different meanings; these meanings can be different from country to country or even just from person to person depending on where and how a person was raised. For example, in the United States, waving is a form of \"hello\" but in other cultures this could mean something offensive.\n\nSemiotics is anything that can stand for something else. A symbol does not stand on its own, it is a part of something, a system perhaps. Symbols in gangs are used for different things. Not just to show which gang a person is associated with but to express what has happened in their gang and in their individual lives. Gangs were first created to strengthen a certain ethnic group. They are very territorial. To show which territory is theirs they will mark the streets so that other gangs are aware. There are special ways to read gang signs and their tattoos: left to right, top to bottom. They may also make the tattoo or graffiti cluttered so that it is hard to read.\n\nEach gang has special hand signals or set of signs to identify themselves. There are some gangs who add a dot or something similar to their graffiti to stand as a phrase used in their specific gang. Each gang is unique and has special symbols, and these symbols usually have some sort of meaning. For example, the gang called \"Bloods\" use the color red in their clothing to symbolize they are a part of this specific gang. They also are known to use the number 5 and have tattoos and graffiti of a five-point crown. The hand sign that they use mostly is a \"b\" which stands for bloods.\n\nSome gangs use graffiti and tattoos more than others as well as using their clothing as a symbol of their gang. Gangs will also use codes to communicate on the streets. They will oftentimes use a number that will relate to a letter of the alphabet. Depending on the gang, they may use more complex codes.\n\nStreet gangs are known for using graffiti in their neighborhoods to mark their territory. Gangs are also using their graffiti to challenge other gangs and to disrespect them. When they do this, they will somehow cross the other gang's symbol, and they will use their gang slang as well. They make sure to do it in a place that is clear and will leave a direct hit on the other gang.\n\nSemiotics and gang graffiti merge on the undercarriage of bridges, the face of billboards, on abandoned buildings, storefronts, the sides of railroad cars, and even in inconspicuous places found along dirt roads in small rural areas. The idea, is to communicate a message. A message that is part of a system.\n\nIt is not uncommon for those outside the culture of gangs to judge the meaning of graffiti and its direct connection to semiotics as completely negative. This kind of graffiti was branded \"Graffiti of Grief\" in an article by Gabrielle Luber. They are a commemoration of mourning; a \"funeral\" for those who have died on the streets. The murals are often created by\nmembers designated within the gang and the artwork is intended \"provide glimpses of their lives, possessions, friends, and surroundings, and map out for us the identities of lost friends.\" The symbols used in these murals are intentional and communicate significant meanings within the developed culture. It is an art, an expression of respect and loyalty. It is a portable headstone and is often layered (painted over) with the next memorial of death caused by street violence. In its own right, it is a historical timeline, a genealogy of grief, and it is rewritten every day with the same story and a new name. Poverty, marginalism, survival, perpetual crisis, inadequate housing, low or no job skills, poor education, and social constraints and constructs will continue to market for the consumption of lives on the streets. The symbol of grief portrayed in certain kinds of graffiti suggest a depth of meaning and a place or memorial far beyond what the eye can see. To an outsider, it may easily be interpreted without compassion.\n\nA world organisation of semioticians, the International Association for Semiotic Studies, and its journal \"Semiotica\", was established in 1969. The larger research centers together with teaching program include the semiotics departments at the University of Tartu, Aarhus University, and Bologna University.\n\nThe discipline is mentioned in an episode of The Big Bang Theory called The Hamburger Postulate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3763395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3763395", "title": "Tax-free shopping", "text": "Tax-free shopping\n\nTax-free shopping (TFS) is the buying of goods in a foreign country and obtaining a refund of the sales tax which has been collected by the retailer on those goods. The sales tax may be variously described as a sales tax, goods and services tax (GST), value added tax (VAT), or consumption tax.\n\nPromoting tax-free shopping and making it easier for tourists to claim the refund back, has helped to attract travellers to many countries. TFS is subject to national regulations, such as minimum spend and restrictions on the types of products on which it can be claimed. Refunds can only be claimed on goods which are exported. However, buying goods tax free does not mean travellers are exempt from paying applicable taxes on their purchases when they get home.\n\nFifty-five of the 130 countries that levy VAT/GST allow foreign visitors to have their taxes reimbursed.\n\nTax-free shopping is currently available in the following countries: Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Latvia, Lebanon, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Singapore, Slovenia, Slovakia, Spain, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, the United Kingdom, the United States and Vietnam.\n\nThe refunded amount corresponds to the VAT or GST paid and in which country the traveller buys goods. VAT/GST is a tax added to the cost of a product, calculated as a percentage of the products retail price. Often in Europe, the ticket price includes VAT, this is less often the case in the US. As an example, if the VAT rate on a product is 20% and the ticket price is displayed as €100, including VAT, the VAT will be €16.67 (83.33 + 20% VAT = €100.).\n\nA handling fee may be charged by the service provider.\n\nTravellers resident in a country outside the EU, can shop tax-free at shops outside EU airports. The traveller pays the VAT over goods in the shop and can request a refund when leaving the European Union with the goods. General restrictions are that a traveller must be a resident in a non-EU country, has a maximum stay of 6 months when visiting the EU, purchases are made up to three months prior to export, and only goods meant for personal use are eligible for the refund. Travellers need to keep the purchase receipts and visit Customs before leaving the EU to get an export validation stamp. Receipts can then be sent back to the retailers for a refund request.\n\nEach country in the EU has a different VAT rate which is reclaimable and a minimum purchase amount restriction.\n\nSome jurisdictions in the United States allow a refund of sales tax to foreign tourists upon leaving the country.\n\nTax-free shopping is a privilege enjoyed by all residents of United States jurisdictions without sales taxes, but through so-called \"remote\" sales—including sales to visiting out-of-state residents, sales via catalog, and sales via Internet—customers in a sales taxed jurisdiction may also make purchases in sales tax-free jurisdictions, notwithstanding the legal requirement to pay the equivalent (compensatory) use tax in their home state. Delaware is free of all sales taxes, excluding homes and cars (3% transfer tax for real estate, and a 2.75% tag fee for cars). The Christiana Mall near Newark, Delaware attracts shoppers from the nearby states of Maryland, New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania looking to save money on purchases from not having to pay sales tax. The Apple Store at the Christiana Mall claims to sell more iPhones than any other location in the chain due to Delaware's lack of sales tax. Merchants in tax-free New Hampshire regularly advertise to residents of adjacent Massachusetts, Vermont, and Maine the benefits of purchasing goods without sales tax, ignoring the fact that there is no general exemption from the use taxes when the goods are taken back home. Many purchasers are unaware of the obligation to pay the tax, or file the necessary return, or of the fact that it is not the duty of a merchant to collect it from them and pay it indirectly. However, it is the purchaser's obligation to pay it directly to the state, often in connection with filing their annual income tax return.\n\nThe liability of any non-exempt resident of a US state with a sales tax for payment of the equivalent use tax when purchasing goods from another state (or country) through mail-order, by telephone or through the Internet should not be confused with the issue of direct Internet taxes levied on Internet services themselves, such as bit taxes, bandwidth taxes, franchise taxes, and email taxes. Most such levies are banned until 2014 by the Internet Tax Freedom Act Amendment Acts of 2007 which extends the provisions in the federal Internet Tax Freedom Act beyond its original 2007 expiration.\n\nGoods that would be taxable at home are taxable at the same rate when taken home or delivered, regardless of where or how they were purchased. Numerous local sales tax and use tax exemptions exist according to taxpayer status (for example, there exist exemptions for charitable organizations), exemptions based on size of purchase (e.g., clothing under $110 in Vermont), and exemptions for specific types of goods (e.g., protective clothing, food, medication, and educational materials).\n\nEven customers from jurisdictions that levy sales taxes can in theory have additional tax liabilities when shopping in neighboring no-tax or lower-tax jurisdictions. For example, if an adjacent state has a slightly lower tax rate than the purchaser's home, that shopper could face an additional tax burden even though the purchase was already taxed at the point of sale. The difference in tax rates is referred to by collecting authorities as \"tax discount\".\n\nTaxing jurisdictions generally extend an exemption from use tax to commercial taxpayers that purchase business stock. This type of exemption applies to goods purchased tax-free for resale, but lapses if the goods are converted to use by the company itself (for example, a company car, office supplies, and cleaning supplies).\n\nSome countries charge a value added tax (VAT) or goods and services tax (GST) that extends to retail purchases. When those customers are residents of a US state having sales taxes on such goods, the VAT or GST taxes paid might be used as a credit against the amount of use tax otherwise owed, unless excluded, such as in Massachusetts. However, when a post-travel refund of the VAT or GST is claimed, the purchaser's home taxing jurisdiction can then assert a claim for the full sales tax liability.\n\nDespite the fact that most shoppers are unaware of their use tax obligations, there are potentially severe penalties for willful tax evasion. Any online, telephone mail-order, or traveling shopper who makes \"tax free\" purchases could be successfully prosecuted for evading state use taxes if he or she willfully fails to file the necessary return and pay the required tax, or intentionally omits the information from a required annual return. When a taxing jurisdiction enforces use tax liability, it often also seeks additional penalties and interest accrued for failure to timely remit the necessary tax return and tax payments, as well as possible perjury for omissions on official forms filed. The statute of limitations on taxes due may not begin to run until and unless a required tax return is filed. Some states also provide a \"safe harbor\" scale of use tax that is most likely owed by every taxpayer, based upon the taxpayer's adjusted gross income. For example, someone with an income of over $100,000 could earmark 0.0005 of his or income as payment for \"use tax\", without having to account for any actual out-of-state purchases under $1,000 each.\n\nTo step up the opportunity for collection of use taxes, several US states have been working to implement a \"streamlined\" interstate use tax agreement. To effectuate this multilateral interstate compact, many states have enacted, or are considering enacting, statutory changes that require residents to disclose, under penalty of perjury, their annual use tax liability for out-of-state purchases. The focus on use tax collection has increased because the U.S. Supreme Court has placed significant hurdles in the path of state efforts to collect sales taxes on transactions in other no-tax or lower-tax jurisdictions. In \"National Bellas Hess, Inc. v. Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois\" and \"Quill Corp. v. North Dakota\", the Court concluded that the Commerce Clause and Due Process Clause of the U.S. Constitution require that there be a nexus between the taxing state and the vendor of goods or services, in the form of a physical presence. This has been interpreted to apply to both catalog sales and out of state sales over the Internet. States are thus prohibited from collecting sales taxes on so-called remote transactions because to do so would unconstitutionally burden interstate commerce. The Streamlined sales tax project is the states' response, by which they are seeking to collect use taxes on remote Internet and catalog sales in lieu of sales taxes.\n\nIn connection with the Streamlined sales tax project there has been discussion among state tax officials of creating obligations or incentives for merchants to collect taxes from customers who are residents of sales tax states, especially in the area of online sales, in exchange for a remitting to the merchant a percentage of the taxes that would be otherwise unpaid. Some US states are also considering a tax amnesty, pursuant to which residents could settle unpaid use taxes and penalties at a discount, but only if the settlement is offered before collection of the tax liability commences.\n\nIn Australia tax-free shopping is called the Tourist Refund Scheme (TRS) which allows overseas visitors and Australian residents to claim a refund of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and Wine equalisation tax (WET) paid on certain goods bought in Australia within 60 days of leaving Australia, and then taken out of Australia in carry-on bags or worn. The refund is available on goods purchased in the 60 days before leaving Australia, purchases from any single business (even on separate invoices) must total $300 (GST inclusive) or more, the traveller must have an original tax invoice for the goods, the goods may require to be verified by an officer at the Customs and Border Protection Client Services counter.\n\nClaims for a tax refund can be made at the TRS counter in an international airport or the cruiseliner terminal of some Australian seaports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51332042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51332042", "title": "Thomas Hancock Nunn", "text": "Thomas Hancock Nunn\n\nThomas Hancock Nunn (1859-1937)<ref name=\"lma/lcss\"></ref> was an English social reformer.\n\nHe was born on 14 March 1859 in London and admitted to Christ's College, Cambridge in 1880 with no scholarship. He received his B.A. in 1884 and his M.A. in 1904.\nHe was also known as Tom Nunn and was married to Kate Hannah Nunn. His brother John Hancock Nunn was in the India rubber business founded by Thomas Hancock.\n\nNunn was vice-chair of the Hampstead Charity Organization Society (COS). Soon after the founding of the first university-affiliated institution of the world-wide Settlement movement in 1884 at Toynbee Hall in Whitechapel he made a base for himself there. He resided there from 1884-1891, and in 1892 published an article, \"The Universities' Settlement in Whitechapel\" in \"The Economic Review\" which describes why it was established and how well it had meant those aims.\n\nAt Hampstead in 1902 he founded the first Council of Social Welfare which brought all welfare agencies together under one administraive umbrella. This was to lay the foundations for the London Council of Social Service. He was a commissioner of the Royal Commission on the Poor Laws and Relief of Distress 1905–09, and in 1909 published a pamphlet \"A council of social welfare : a note and memorandum in the report of the Royal Commission on the Poor Laws and Relief of Distress\".\n\nHe died 22 June 1937 at Shoreham-by-Sea. His biography was published in 1942 by H.J.Marshall. A charity bearing his name, the Thomas Hancock Nunn Memorial fund, operated from 1962 to 1991.\n"}
{"id": "18973344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18973344", "title": "William Blake's Illustrations of the Book of Job", "text": "William Blake's Illustrations of the Book of Job\n\nWilliam Blake's \"Illustrations of the Book of Job\" primarily refers to a series of twenty-two engraved prints (published 1826) by Blake illustrating the biblical Book of Job. It also refers to two earlier sets of watercolours by Blake on the same subject (1806 and 1821). The engraved \"Illustrations\" are considered to be Blake's greatest masterpieces in the medium of engraving, and were also a rare commercial and critical success for Blake.\n\nAs early as 1785 Blake had sketched several ink studies of an illustration to Job. In 1793 Blake engraved a composition based upon these drawings, which he offered for sale in the \"Prospectus to the Public\" for twelve shillings. This, alongside an engraving of Ezekiel, are the only extant examples of an intended series of biblical illustrations that were never completed. Blake reworked the Job plate sometime after 1804, but the resulting print was not included in the \"Illustrations\".\n\nBlake's next illustration was the tempera painting \"Job and his Daughters\" (1800), commissioned by Thomas Butts (see gallery below). This has similarities to plate 20 of the engraved illustrations, but it is unclear whether the print was directly based upon it.\n\nThe engraved illustrations to Job originated as a series of watercolours that Blake painted in 1805-6, also for Butts. These 19 watercolours are referred to as the \"Butts Set\" (in the collection of the Morgan Library & Museum).\n\nA second set of watercolours, known as the \"Linell Set\" (mostly in the collection of the Fogg Art Museum) was produced in 1821 at the request of John Linell. Linell traced the watercolours from the \"Butts set\"; these tracings were then coloured in by Blake. As a result of this unusual process, the outlines of the \"Linell set\" are thicker and the colouring is uniformly darker, with a more restricted palette than the \"Butts set\". Blake also added two new designs to the \"Linell set\", and added copies of these to the Butts set. The two designs added were No.s 17 and 20, \"The Vision of Christ\" and \"Job and His Daughters\".\n\nThere is also another set of watercolours known as the \"New Zealand Set\". These were initially believed to be from Blake's hand, but their authenticity has been all but refuted by scholars such as Martin Butlin and Bo Lindberg. They are most likely copies after the engravings by someone in the circle of John Linell, as they have no unique features.\n\nIn 1823 Linell formally commissioned Blake to engrave plates for printing. Unlike Blake's own productions in relief etching, this, like other commissioned work, was produced using the intaglio method of engraving. However, Blake rejected the \"mixed method\" popular among commercial reproductive engravers of his time. The \"mixed method\" entailed lightly etching guidelines into the plate. The image was then engraved by the dot and lozenge method and by stippling. Instead, Blake engraved his illustrations in pure line and without preliminary etching.\n\nThe engravings were completed in 1825, and an edition of 315 was produced in 1826. These were the last set of illustrations that Blake would complete. His illustrations of Dante's \"Divine Comedy\" were left unfinished upon his death.\n\nThe completed engravings differ from Blake's original watercolours mainly in the complex marginal designs that they employ. These comment upon the text with biblical quotes and paraphrases, and also contain images that reinforce the themes of the main illustrations.\n\nAfter completing the engravings, Blake painted an additional tempera of \"Satan Smiting Job with Boils\" in 1826.\n\nThe \"Book of Job\" was an important influence upon Blake's writings and art; Blake apparently identified with Job, as he spent his lifetime unrecognized and impoverished. Harold Bloom has interpreted Blake's most famous lyric, \"The Tyger\", as a revision of God's rhetorical questions in the Book of Job concerning Behemoth and Leviathan. Blake also depicted the story of Job throughout his career as an artist. The song of Enion in Night the Second of \"The Four Zoas\" also demonstrates that Blake identified with Job.\nBlake used symbols extensively in the illustrations; most notable is the use of right and left limbs in the figures. The right limb represents the spiritual and the good; the left, the material and evil. In plate six, Satan smites Job with boils using his left hand, and in plate 15 God indicates Behemoth and Leviathan with his left hand. Contrarily, God banishes Satan with his right hand in plate sixteen and speaks to Job from the whirlwind in plate fourteen with his right foot extended forward. Some scholars, however, have asserted that this systematic interpretation fails to account for inconsistencies in such symbolism and is excessively subjective.\n\nThe Hebrew incorporated in the Butts watercolor \"Job's Evil Dreams\" and in the engravings \"title\" plate and plate numbered 2 \"Hast thou considered my Servant Job\" is analyzed in 'Blake's Hebrew Calligraphy.' \n\nThe theme of an Orthodox Jewish ritual used in the composition of plate numbered 17 \"I have heard thee with the hearing of the Ear but now my Eye seeth thee\" is explained in 'Blake's Priestly Blessing: God Blesses Job.' \n\nFrom early in his artistic career, Blake collected the prints of Albrecht Dürer. The depiction of Behemoth in plate 15 of the engravings is believed to have been influenced by \"Dürer's Rhinoceros\".\n\nIn his \"Public Address\" (possibly from 1810), Blake also indicates \"Marc Antonio\" (Marcantonio Raimondi), as an artist who inspired his linear technique of engraving. \"Julio Romano\" (Giulio Romano), Raphael, and Michelangelo are also mentioned by Blake in this address.\n\nOf the edition of 315, only 20 copies of the illustrations were sold in Blake's lifetime, mostly to people within Blake's immediate circle (such as Samuel Palmer). However, the \"Illustrations\" brought Blake an unprecedented degree of recognition. The Royal Academy and the King's Library each bought a copy; the former also awarded Blake £25. Such notables as John Constable and Lady Caroline Lamb invited him to dine, and the collector Charles Alders introduced him to Samuel Taylor Coleridge. The \"Illustrations\" also gained critical acknowledgment after Blake's death more quickly than his prophetic books. As early as 1857 John Ruskin wrote of Blake in \"The Elements of Drawing\" that The \"Book of Job\", engraved by himself, is of the highest rank in certain characters of imagination and expression; in the mode of obtaining certain effects of light it will also prove a very useful example to you. In expressing conditions of glaring and flickering light, Blake is greater than Rembrandt.\n\nThe triple-mirror design in the background of plate 20, \"Job and his Daughters\", is believed to have influenced William Holman Hunt's use of the same motif in his painting \"The Lady of Shalott\"; Blake was highly regarded by the Pre-Raphaelites.\n\nRalph Vaughan Williams based his ballet \"\" (first staged in 1931) upon the \"Illustrations\".\nBlake did not give titles to the illustrations and the most prominent text in the margins is used by some scholars (such as S. Foster Damon) as a title for a given illustration. Others, such as Robert Essick, use descriptive titles. Therefore, both are given here. In some cases the titles are the same.\n\nNote that Blake's marginal texts are paraphrases of biblical passages and so will not be exactly identical to the linked verse.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35296633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35296633", "title": "Women's education in Pakistan", "text": "Women's education in Pakistan\n\nWomen's education in Pakistan is a fundamental right of every female citizen, according to article thirty-seven of the Constitution of Pakistan, but gender discrepancies still exist in the educational sector. According to the 2011 Human Development Report of the United Nations Development Program, approximately twice as many males as females receive a secondary education in Pakistan, and public expenditures on education amount to only 2.7% of the GDP of the country.\n\nPatriarchal values heavily govern the social structure in Pakistani society in the rural areas. In comparison, urban centers of the country as well as semi-peripheral regions are slowly moving towards shifting gender roles that are more inclusive. Around 70% of working women in Pakistan work outdoors according to the Asian Development Bank policy brief on female workforce participation in Pakistan 2016. The general perception of culturally traditional gender roles that, specifically, a woman is expected to take care of the home as wife and mother, whereas the male dominates outside the home as a breadwinner, are questionable in certain sectors. In agricultural work, within rural areas, both men and women work in the fields and are expected to contribute equally to household work. In a survey by the Pakistan Bureau of Statistics 2013-2014, it was reported that 26% of women are in the labor force ( approximately 15 million). There is a traditionally conceptual idea of segregation of men and women into two distinct worlds. However, this materializes differently in different parts of the country. Only in the most of rural-isolated regions in the country is this idea of gender roles strictly followed. Poverty is one of the major factors in unequal household resources allocation in the favor of sons due to their role in society outside the home. Therefore, education for boys is prioritized over girls, because it is perceived that boys must be equipped with educational skills to compete for resources in the public arena; while girls have to specialize in domestic skills to be good mothers and wives. Hence, education is not perceived as being important for girls.\n\nThis gender division of labor has been internalized by the society, and girls do not have many choices for themselves that could change these patriarchal realities of their lives. Society does not allow girls to develop their human capabilities by precluding them from acquiring education. Lack of emphasis on the importance of women's education is one of the cardinal features of gender inequality in Pakistan. The Human Development Report (HDR) listed Pakistan in the category of \"low human development\" countries with a female literacy rate of thirty percent, and Pakistan has ranked 145 in the world in terms of human development.\n\nEducation has been of central significance to the development of human society. It can be the beginning, not only of individual knowledge, information and awareness, but also a holistic strategy for development and change. Education is very much connected to women's ability to form social relationships on the basis of equality with others and to achieve the important social good of self-respect. It is important, as well, to mobility (through access to jobs and the political process) and to health and life (through the connection to bodily integrity). Education can allow women to participate in politics so they can ensure that their voices and concerns are heard and addressed in the public policy. It is also crucial for women's access to the legal system. Although it must be considered that religion and traditions of the Pakistani affect women's education. Some women may choose to keep the traditional roles because that is what they have always known and are used to. It would be a great opportunity if women were able to make their choice on their own, though. They should at least have the knowledge of both sides to be educated or to stay with the traditional ways.\n\nEducation is a critical input in human resource development and essential for the country's economic growth. It increases the productivity and efficiency of individuals, and it produces a skilled labor force that is capable of leading the economy towards sustainable growth and prosperity. The progress and wellbeing of a country largely depends on the education choices made available to its people. It can be one of the most powerful instruments of change. It can help a country to achieve its national goals via producing minds imbued with knowledge, skills, and competencies to shape its future destiny. The widespread recognition of this fact has created awareness on the need to focus upon literacy and elementary education, not simply as a matter of social justice but more to foster economic growth, social well-being, and social stability. Women's education is so inextricably linked with the other facets of human development that to make it a priority is to also make change on a range of other fronts; from the health and status of women to early childhood care; from nutrition, water and sanitation to community empowerment; from the reduction of child labor and other forms of exploitation to the peaceful resolution of conflicts.\n\nApart from the acquisition of knowledge and values conductive to social evolution, education also enables development of mind, training in logical and analytical thinking. It allows an individual to acquire organizational, managerial, and administrative skills. Moreover, enhanced self-esteem and improved social and financial status within a community is a direct outcome of education. Therefore, by promoting education among women, Pakistan can achieve social and human development, and gender equality. A large number of empirical studies have revealed that increase in women's education boosts their wages and that returns to education for women are frequently larger than that of men. Increase in the level of female education improves human development outcomes such as child survival, health and schooling. Lower female education has a negative impact on economic growth as it lowers the average level of human capital. Developmental Economists argue that in developing countries female education reduces fertility, infant mortality and increases children's education. Gender inequality in education directly and significantly affects economic growth. Empirical studies done by using regression analysis reveal the fact that the overall literacy rate, enrollment ratio, ratio of literate female to male have positive and significant impact on economic growth. Chaudhry (2007) investigated the impact of gender inequality in education on economic growth in Pakistan. The secondary source of time series data drawn from various issues has been used. In his regression analysis, he estimated a set of regressions showing a moderate explanatory power. The variables, overall literacy rate, enrollment ratio, ratio of literate female to male have positive and significant impact on economic growth. It was found that gender inequality in initial education reduces economic growth.\nIn another empirical study, Chaudhry (2009) investigated factors affecting rural poverty in Southern Punjab (Pakistan), and he concluded that alleviation of poverty is possible by lowering the household size and dependency ratio, improving education, increasing female labor participation. He employed Logit regression models and used primary source of data from the project area of Asian Development Bank for estimation. Results indicate that as dependency level and household size increase the probability of being poor increases too. Education has the significant inverse relationship with poverty because it provides employment opportunities and rejects poverty. The inclusion of trained and education women workforce will not only ensure women's welfare, it will also increase the overall productivity of the workforce due to more competitiveness. Hence, the developmental and feminist economists argue that it is desirable for the government to allocate more resources towards women's education, as it is going to benefit the whole society.\n\nAccording to UNDP 2010 report, Pakistan ranked 120 in 146 countries in terms of Gender-related Development Index (GDI), and in terms of Gender Empowerment Measurement (GEM) ranking, it ranked 92 in 94 countries. Gender inequality in education can be measured in different ways. Gross and net enrollment rates and completion and drop-out rates are the ways to identify the gender inequality in education. Pakistan aims to achieve Millennium Development Goals and also aims to eliminate gender disparity at all levels of education by the year 2015. Elimination of gender disparity at all levels of education requires higher allocation of resources on women's education. Strong gender disparities exist in literacy and educational attainment between rural and urban areas of Pakistan.\n\nPatriarchal values are deeply embedded in the society of Pakistan, and its different manifestations are observed in different aspects of the society. As mentioned above, gender division of labour enforces women to primarily specialize in unpaid care work as mothers and wives at home, whereas men perform paid work, and come out as breadwinners. This has led to a low level of resource investment in girls' education not only by their families but also by the state. This low investment in women's human capital, compounded by negative social biases and cultural practices, restrictions on women's mobility and the internalization of patriarchy by women themselves, becomes the basis for gender discrimination and disparities in most spheres of life. Some of the ramifications are that women are unable to develop job-market skills, hence, they have limited opportunities available to them in the wage-labour market. Moreover, social and cultural restrictions limit women's chances to compete for resources in a world outside the four walls of their homes. It translates into social and economic dependency of women on men. The nature and degree of women's oppression and subordination vary across classes, regions and the rural and urban divide in Pakistan. It has been observed that male dominant structures are relatively more marked in the rural and tribal setting where local customs and indigenous laws establish stronger male authority and power over women.\n\nDestruction of schools and killings have harmed women's education in Pakistan. 16-year-old education activist and blogger Malala Yousafzai was shot in the head and neck by Taliban insurgents 9 October 2012 after she had blogged about the destruction of schools and closing of all-girls schools in her town of Mingora in the Swat District. Later, the Taliban denied that it opposes education and claimed \"Malala was targeted because of her pioneer role in preaching secularism and so-called enlightened moderation.\"\n\nIn September 2012 the Pakistani newspaper \"Dawn\" reported that 710 schools have been destroyed or damaged by militants in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and 401 schools have been destroyed or damaged in Swat. While the Taliban's campaign extends beyond girls to secular education in general, at least one source reports the damage was related to Taliban opposition to girls' education. Another source includes the bombing of girls' schools as among the Taliban policies.\n\nIn year 2006, the literacy rate in urban areas was recorded as 58.3% while in rural areas it was 28.3%, and only 12% among rural women. An interesting factor in this context is that female enrollment was recorded highest at the primary level, but it progressively decreases at the secondary, college and tertiary levels. It was estimated that less than 3% of the 17–23 age group of girls have access to higher education.\n\nThe number of women who attend school in urban areas vs. rural areas differs drastically. In urban areas, women's education is increasing every day. The parents of girls who live in urban areas are a lot more accepting of their enrolling in school and even encourage girls to pursue a career as they are also a lot more knowledgeable of their rights. This makes them a lot more motivated to stand up for their education. Parent in urban areas are a lot more modernized or westernized. These urban parents acknowledge the importance of an education. Women who live in urban areas are often enrolled in private schools getting a better education there as they have a lot more educational accessibility. Women in urban areas are also surrounded by people who are educated and are not put down or beaten for going to school. Unlike in urban areas, women in rural areas are discouraged to attend school. Most of them are brought up in conservative families with little to no education. They have to work harder than women in urban areas because they have little support system. If their parents are accepting of education they still cannot go since most of them are very poor and cannot afford the expense. The women also do not attend school in rural areas of Pakistan because it is not culturally accepted. These conservative families tend to be more traditional expecting women to stay at home and attend the house while men go out to work. They’re also restricted in rural areas because their town may not even have a school, therefore having to travel a long distance to attend one.\nThe latest official statistics on enrollment that are provided by the Ministry of Education of Pakistan are of year 2005–2006. The statistics can be divided into two categories, public schools and private schools.\n\nAccording to the government of Pakistan, total enrollment level of pre-primary in public sector was 4,391,144. Out of 4,391,144 pre-primary students, 2,440,838 are boys, and 1,950,306 are girls. It shows that 56% of enrolled students are boys, and 44% are girls. Further breakdown of these statistics into urban and rural enrollment levels reveals almost similar percentage of enrollment among boys and girls, i.e. in rural schools 57% are boys and 43% are girls.\n\nPrivate sector;\nThere is a huge sector of private education in Pakistan. According to the government of Pakistan, 2,744,303 pre-primary students are enrolled in private schools. Among them, 1,508,643 are boys, and 1,235,660 are girls. It shows that 55% of enrolled kids are boys and 45% are girls. Of the total number, 39% students are in rural areas, and the percentage of enrolled boys and girls in rural areas are 58% and 42% respectively.\n\nPrimary education is compulsory for every child in Pakistan, but due to culture, poverty, and child labour, Pakistan has been unable to achieve 100% enrollment at the primary level.\n\nThe total enrollment in primary public sector is 11,840,719; 57% (6,776,536) are boys, and 43% (5,064,183) are girls. 79% of all the primary students in Pakistan are enrolled in rural schools, and the gender enrollment ratios are 59% and 41% for boys and girls respectively in rural Pakistan.\n\nThe private schools are mostly located in urban centers, and the total enrollment in private primary schools was 4,993,698.\n\nThe enrollment level falls dramatically from primary to middle school level in Pakistan. These statistics can be very helpful in comprehending the problems faced by Pakistan in its educational sector.\n\n3,642,693 students are enrolled in public middle schools; 61% (2,217,851) are boys, and 39% (1,424,842) are girls. Of the total enrollment, 62% students are in rural areas, and the enrollment of girls are much lower in rural middle schools vis-à-vis urban schools. In rural schools, 66% enrolled students are boys and 34% are girls.\n\nThe enrollment in private schools declines sharply after primary level, as the cost of attendance in private schools increases and the majority of the population cannot afford private education in Pakistan. The total number of students enrolled in private schools at middle level is 1,619,630. Of the total level of enrollment in private schools, 66% students are in urban schools. Hence, the ratio of boys and girls is relatively balanced with 54% boys and 46% girls.\n\nIn Pakistan grades 8 to 10 constitute high school education.\n\nThe total number of students enrolled in public high schools is 1,500,749. The 61% of students are boys and 39% are girls. Overall enrollment decreases sharply at high school level. A very disproportionate gender ratio is observed in rural high schools, only 28% of the enrolled students are girls, and 72% are boys.\n\n632,259 students are enrolled in private high schools. Most of them are in urban centers. The ratio of boys and girls enrollment is 53% and 47% respectively.\n\nThe overall ratio seems to equalize among boys and girls in higher secondary education.\n\nThere are 699,463 students enrolled in higher secondary education in public institutions. There is almost 50% boys and girls enrollment in higher secondary education. But there is a discrepancy between urban and rural enrollments. Only 16% of the students from the total number are from rural areas, and only 28% are female students. While in urban centers, 55% students are female students.\n\n154,072 students are enrolled in private higher secondary institutions, with 51% boys and 49% girls.\n\nFemale students outnumber their male counterparts in degree level education.\n\nThere are only 296,832 students enrolled in degree level education in public sector institutions, and 62% of them are female while 38% are male. Very few (less than 1%) students are in rural institutions.\n\n29,161 students are enrolled in private sector institutions; 4% are female, mostly in urban city centers.\n\nThese statistics shed some interesting facts about education in Pakistan; the gender disparity in education is much lower in urban places vis-à-vis rural areas. One of the possible explanations of this pattern is relatively stronger dominance of tribal, feudal and patriarchal traditions in rural areas. Moreover, there are very few employment opportunities for women in rural areas, and thus, there is very little financial incentive for families to send their girls to schools. However, despite the meagre representation of females in the education sector, the level of achievement of female students is consistently far higher than that of their counterpart male students. Girls generally outclass boys in examination, and they are also higher achievers in universities. Unfortunately, the majority of the girls never get an opportunity to develop their educational capabilities.\n\nOfficially the government of Pakistan is committed to provide every citizen an access to education, but critics say that its budget allocation towards education does not correspond with its former commitment. The expenditure on education as a percentage of GDP was 1.82% in 2000–2001, while it has been raised slightly in 2006–2007 to 2.42%, and it is still relatively lower than most neighboring countries. Feminist economists argue that the government of Pakistan needs to fully address and resolve the gender concerns that exist in the educational sector. They suggest that one of the ways to improve this situation is by increasing funding for women's education, encourage and financially incentivize people in the rural areas to send their girls to schools. In the apprentice of gender studies, the gender division of labor is considered patriarchal, and feminists argue that it can be consciously neutralized by the public policies, i.e. encouraging girls to study mathematics, science, computers, and business administration etc. This way, girls will specialize in higher paying fields (jobs) instead of solely focusing on care work.\n\nIn 2016, parents seized the initiative by sending their daughters to what has become a co-education school in Mangar Kota, Swat. The village has only one primary school for girls, with just one teacher. The nearest secondary school is 12 kilometres away. The only way for girls to continue their education was to attend a boys school. Inspired by Malala Yousafzai the parents of 8 girls have enrolled their daughters in a boys school.\n\nStatistics show that education in Pakistan can be characterized by extensive gender inequalities. Girls/women have to face socio-cultural hurdles to acquire education. International community has developed a consensus through the Millennium Development Goals to eliminate gender inequality from education. The proponents of gender equality argue that it is not only humane and ethical thing to provide everyone easy access to education without any gender bias, but it is also essential for development and progress of a society that both men and women are educated. They also point towards empirical studies that have confirmed that gender inequality in education has significant impact on rural poverty in Pakistan, and female literacy is important for poverty alleviation. Feminists like Martha Nussbaum are arguing that there is an immediate need to increase the public expenditures on female education in order to achieve gender equality at all levels.\n\n"}
