{"id": "42725027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42725027", "title": "2014 Canon Media Awards", "text": "2014 Canon Media Awards\n\nThe 2014 Canon Media Awards were hosted by the New Zealand Newspaper Publishers' Association on Friday 9 May 2014 at the Pullman Hotel in Auckland, New Zealand. The Newspaper of the Year was \"The Dominion Post\", and the Reporter of the Year was Andrea Vance of Fairfax Media's political bureau.\n\nIn August 2014, there were calls for the withdrawal of the Canon Media Award for Best Blog presented to Cameron Slater at the 2014 Canon Media Awards due to allegations of the recipient's involvement in political impropriety as published that same month in the book \"Dirty Politics\". The Newspaper Publishers' Association did not withdraw the award, and released a statement that allegations presented in \"Dirty Politics\" did not constitute sufficient evidence or proof of wrongdoing.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn August 2014, following the publication of Nicky Hager's book \"Dirty Politics\" which alleged Cameron Slater's involvement with political impropriety, there were calls from online media for Slater's Canon Media Award for Best Blog to be withdrawn. However, the Newspaper Publishers' Association issued a statement saying that the award would not be withdrawn. NPA editorial director Rick Neville said \"The only justification for even considering this would be if concrete evidence came forward of illegal or highly unethical methods having been used to obtain the Len Brown story. Nicky Hager has made a number of allegations but these are not the same as evidence or proof.\"\n"}
{"id": "39355822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39355822", "title": "A. R. Taylor", "text": "A. R. Taylor\n\nArnold Rodgers Taylor (1913–93) was a scholar of medieval English, Old Norse, and modern Icelandic.\n\nTaylor was the youngest of the four children of Arthur Harry Taylor, from Burnham in Norfolk, and Elizabeth Rodgers, from Stockton. After graduating from high school in Stockton, Taylor read English at the University of Manchester (St. Anselm Hall), graduating in 1934. Under the influence of E. V. Gordon, he spent the spring of 1933 as an exchange student in Iceland. In 1934 he took his MA at Manchester, writing on \"Droplaugarsona saga\", and then spent a further year there gaining a teaching certificate. During these years, he continued to spend much of his time in Iceland, meeting his future wife Sigríður Ásgeirsdóttir (1911–91) there in 1935.\n\nAfter holding a substitute teaching position in Ashton under Lyne in 1937, Taylor went to Germany as an assistant professor of English at the University of Jena from 1937–39, followed by a year of high-school teaching at Darlington.\n\nWith the outbreak of war, Arnold volunteered his German skills to the British army, but with an even greater lack of soldiers knowing Icelandic, he was posted to Iceland in 1940. In 1941 he met Sigríður again, and they married in Reykjavík in March 1942, moving to England later that year. Arnold continued both to fight and translate in North Africa, Italy, Belgium and the Netherlands until the summer of 1946, when he returned to high-school teaching in County Durham.\n\nIn January 1947 Arnold began the career which dominated his life, gaining a lectureship in the English Department at the University of Leeds, where he succeeded Bruce Dickins (who had himself succeeded Arnold's tutor E. V. Gordon when Gordon left Leeds for Manchester) in teaching medieval English, Old Norse and modern Icelandic Studies. He became a senior lecturer in 1956 and retired in 1978 (when he was succeeded by Rory McTurk). From 1952-54 he was President of The Viking Society for Northern Research. He became a Knight of the Icelandic Order of the Falcon in 1963, and in 1978 a Knight Commander of the order.\n\nTaylor is best known for his 1957 revision of Gordon's \"An Introduction to Old Norse\", which remained the main textbook in Old Norse in the Anglophone world into the twenty-first century. He also produced an \"Icelandic-English Pocket Dictionary\" (Reykjavík: Orðabókarútgáfan, 1956) and a number of articles, though ill health hampered his writing.\n\nTaylor died in England 30 May 1993. In accordance with his last wishes, he was granted burial in Icelandic soil beside his wife, at Blönduós.\n\n"}
{"id": "2657664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2657664", "title": "After Man", "text": "After Man\n\nAfter Man: A Zoology of the Future is a 1981 speculative evolution book written by Scottish geologist Dougal Dixon and illustrated by several illustrators including Diz Wallis, John Butler, Brian McIntyre, Philip Hood, Roy Woodard and Gary Marsh. The book also features a foreword by Desmond Morris. \"After Man\" explores a hypothetical future set 50 million years from now, a time period Dixon dubs the \"Posthomic\", which is inhabited by animals that have evolved from survivors of a mass extinction succeeding our own time.\n\n\"After Man\" used a fictional setting and hypothetical animals to explain the natural processes behind evolution, a concept that proved successful. The success of \"After Man\" spawned two following speculative evolution books (sometimes called the \"\"After\" trilogy\") which used new fictional settings and creatures to explain other natural processes. \"The New Dinosaurs\", released in 1988, explained the concept of zoogeography and biogeographic realms through a world in which the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction event never happened and non-avian dinosaurs were still alive. \"Man After Man\", released in 1990, focused on climate change over the next few million years through the eyes of future human species genetically engineered to adapt to it.\n\n\"After Man\" and Dixon's following books inspired the speculative evolution artistic movement which focuses on speculative scenarios in the evolution of life, often possible future scenarios (such as \"After Man\") or alternative paths in the past (such as \"The New Dinosaurs\"). Dixon is often considered the founder of the modern speculative evolution movement.\n\n\"After Man\" explores Earth 50 million years in the future, hypothesizing what new animals might evolve in the timespan between its setting and the present day. Ecology and evolutionary theory are applied to create believable creatures, all of which have their own binomial names and text describing their behaviour and interactions with other contemporary animals.\n\nIn this new period of the Cenozoic, which Dixon calls the \"Posthomic\", Europe and Africa have fused, closing the Mediterranean Sea; whereas Asia and North America has collided and closed the Bering Strait; South America has split from Central America; Australia has collided with Southern Asia (colliding with the mainland sometime in the last 10 million years), uplifting a mountain range beyond the mountains of the Far East that has become the most extensive and the highest chain in the world, greater even than the Himalayas at their zenith 50 million years ago; and parts of eastern Africa have split off to form a new island called Lemuria. Other volcanic islands have been added, such as the Pacaus archipelago and Batavia.\n\nOver a hundred future animal species are described and illustrated in the book. Major groups include the \"rabbucks\", versatile descendants of rabbits filling the ecological niches of deer, zebras, giraffes and antelope, \"gigantelopes\", descendants of antelope filling niche held by elephants, giraffes, moose, musk oxen, rhinoceroses, and other large herbivores and the predatory rats, the major group of terrestrial predators and descendants of rats.\n\nAs a child, Dixon was inspired by H. G. Wells' \"The Time Machine\", particularly the far future creatures featured in the book, to create his own imaginary future animals descended from creatures of the modern day. These animals often served as background characters in Dixon's own retellings of Wells' work. In the 1960s, Dixon was influenced by the contemporary conservationist movements, especially a campaign to save the tigers. Dixon began to ponder that should the tiger and other endangered animals go extinct, something would inevitably take their place. After seeing a \"Save the Whale\" badge on a friend in the late 1970s, the idea materialized again.\n\nDixon devised \"After Man\" as a popular-level book on the processes of evolution that instead of using the past to tell the story projected the processes into the future. After finishing a dummy version of the book, with text and his own illustrations, Dixon took the book to two different publishers in London, both of whom immediately greenlit the project.\n\nWhen designing the various animals of the book, Dixon looked at the different types of biomes on the planet and what adaptations animals living there have, designing new animals descended from modern day ones with the same set of adaptations. Though Dixon made illustrations of his future animals to pitch the project, the final book used illustrations by other artists due to a publisher decision. Dixon created detailed illustrations that the artists followed in the creation of the final artwork featured in \"After Man\".\n\nIn March 2018, Breakdown Press published a new edition of the book, updated to reflect modern science relating to evolution. The updated version also features new artwork for some of the animals.\n\nThe first review of \"After Man\" was one made by Professor Barry Cox of King's College London in a science-based radio programme. Cox's review was extremely negative, but subsequent reviews were highly positive. Reviews in \"New Scientist\" and \"BBC Wildlife\" praised the book and Dixon went on publicity tours in the United States and the United Kingdom. \"After Man\" was at the time of its release portrayed in reviews as a book about the extinction of mankind, though Dixon has stated that mankind's end was simply an excuse to discuss evolution, humanity having very little do with the \"plot\" of the book.\n\nIn 1982, the book was a finalist for the Hugo Award for Best Related Work.\n\nFollowing the success of \"After Man\", Dixon realized that there was a market for popular-level books which use fictional examples and settings to explain actual factual scientific processes. \"After Man\" had explained the process of evolution by creating a complex hypothetical future ecosystem, the \"sequel\" \"The New Dinosaurs\" (1988) was instead aimed at creating a book on zoogeography, a subject the general public was quite unfamiliar with, by using a fictional world in which the non-avian dinosaurs had not gone extinct to explain the process. \"The New Dinosaurs\" was followed by another project in 1990, \"Man After Man\", which focused on the future evolution of humanity.\n\nJapanese markets were highly interested in \"After Man\", and Japanese adaptations were made of the book, including both a stop-motion documentary and an animated film. To date, Dixon's 2010 speculative evolution book \"Greenworld\", exploring humanity's impact on an alien ecosystem, has only been published in Japan.\n\n\"The Future is Wild\", a 2002 miniseries, features future animals evolving over the course of several million years. Early in its development, Dixon was brought in as a consultant. Dixon designed many of the creatures featured in the programme, some of which are similar to creatures in \"After Man\" (such as the \"gannetwhale\", a bird similar to the whale-like penguins of \"After Man\"), and co-authored the companion book with the producer of the series, John Adams. \"The Future is Wild\" also focused considerably on future environmental changes, something Dixon avoided in \"After Man\" so that readers would at the very least recognize the background inhabited by the various future animals.\n\n\"The Future is Wild\" was unable to use Dixon's original creatures as DreamWorks SKG had bought and owned the rights to \"After Man\". DreamWorks eventually abandoned the project, and the rights were then bought by Paramount, though no potential movie adaptation has yet materialized.\n"}
{"id": "19026296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19026296", "title": "Angharad Llwyd", "text": "Angharad Llwyd\n\nAngharad Llwyd (15 April 1780 – 16 October 1866) was a Welsh antiquary and a prizewinner at the National Eisteddfod of Wales.\n\nShe was born at Caerwys in Flintshire, the daughter of Rev. John Lloyd, himself a noted antiquary. Her essay entitled \"Catalogue of Welsh Manuscripts, etc. in North Wales\" won a prize at the Welshpool eisteddfod of 1824. In 1827 she edited a revised version of Sir John Wynn's \"History of the Gwydir Family\". In the following year, she was among those awarded silver medals by Prince Augustus Frederick, Duke of Sussex, on his visit to the eisteddfod at Denbigh. She won another first prize at the Beaumaris eisteddfod of 1833.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25211329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25211329", "title": "Anti-genre", "text": "Anti-genre\n\nAnti-genre is a self-descriptive label attributed to any artistic style devoid of genre. This lack of genre-status can either be the result of:\n(1) an active attempt to evade categorization (transcend all genres), \n(2) conscious negation of the ethos of its medium (unlearning of history),\n(3) an active and conscious negation of itself.\n\nThe anti-genre is not simply an assault on tradition (previous artistic styles), for every anti-thesis in history would then fall under this title. (see Hard versus Soft section) The anti-genre, rather implies a more direct and nihilistic attack on the foundations of its medium. The anti-genre is in a perpetual state of evasion both from external taxonomy, but also from itself.\n\nThe artistic movement known as Dada is likely the best example of the anti-genre, although the Dada manifestos of Hugo Ball and Tristan Tzara never use the term 'anti-genre' to describe Dada,\n\nDADA DOES NOT MEAN ANYTHING. Every man must shout: there is great destructive, negative work to be done. To sweep, to clean.\n\nThe etymology of the term anti-genre borrows its semantic form from the terms anti- meaning \"against\" and \"genre\", (French \"kind,\" related to the English \"gender\")\n\nThe best example of the anti-genre in music is John Cage's 1952 composition 4′33″, in which the entire performance consists of four and a half minutes of utter silence. The musicians are instructed not to play their instruments. All the audience can hear is the sound of themselves.\n\nIn this famous and controversial piece, John Cage presents silence as the antithesis of music. Thus, the absence of all audible content becomes music's anti-genre. There are, however other examples.\n\nIf music is the artistic arrangement of sound, then the non-artistic arrangement of sound might be a suitable candidate for musical-negation. Non-music becomes noise, rather than artful melody and rhythm. Examples of noise music range from guitar-based feedback recordings and live performances (The Melvins, Nine Inch Nails, Jimi Hendrix) to the screeching sounds of Screamo, Grindcore, industrial music or contemporary dance electronic styles like Gabber, Terrorcore, Breakcore, Glitch, etc. Indeed, the entire ethos of the Punk subculture was based on nihilism, which by its very nature seeks category annihilation.\n\nThe anti-genre, in literature, comes into being in particular during the mid to late 19th century. Both Fyodor Dostoyevsky's 1864 novel Notes from Underground, with his introduction of the anti-hero (referred to as the Underground Man) as well as Friedrich Nietzsche's The Antichrist published in 1895, represent early works in the tradition.\n\nFor Dostoyevsky's underground man, all the virtues of the traditional protagonist (the hero) are turned upside down. Rather than courageous he is weak and complains of both physical pain as well as deeper (more existential) angst. Rather than altruism and chivalry he feels vengeance and spite towards others. Dostoyevsky's underground man introduces to western literature the archetype of the anti-hero. His early work also attacks the positivists of the Enlightenment era, thereby strengthening the case against utopian optimism. The introduction of the anti-hero combined with his dystopian proposal, represent more of a soft anti-genre status rather than the more technical definition of the term.\n\nFor Nietzsche, the task of overcoming history required a grand declaration of war. His enemies were many: In the last sane year of his life he was able to complete two final texts, Twilight of the Idols and The Anti-Christ.\n\nMore technical examples of the anti-genre in literature might include meta-fiction or aleatoricism, but there is lack of contemporary scholarship on the topic to resolve this matter definitively.\n\nIs the anti-genre itself a genre?\n\nThis poses a problem. For, if it is a genre, then it does not exist but if it is not a genre then no discussion of it as a coherent entity can take place. The anti-genre therefore suffers from an identity crisis. Of course, nothing would make the anti-genre more happy than to deny its own existence.\n\nBy referencing a negation of itself in its own definition, \"anti-genre\" achieves a contradictory truth status (both true and false at the same time). This happens any time that the definition of the word in question (or interpretation of the sentence in question) is a denial of its own meaning. For example,\n\nWhen it is true (that it is false) it becomes a negation of itself. It cannot be both true and false at the same time. The anti-genre suffers from this same type of self-annihilation.\n\nBut, although this might pose a problem for a symbolic logician or software engineer, it poses no problem for the anti-artist. The goal of the artist working in their respective anti-genre is to evade genre-classification. Thus, the inability of their category to hold down a definition becomes an asset rather than a liability.\n\nThe most technical description of the paradox of the anti-genre can be found in computer science. In computer programming an infinite loop is often an un-intended result (bug) of circular self-reference in the program code.\n\nFor example, the Dada artist's eternal maxim declares,\nDada had only one rule: Never follow any rules.\nIf we (hypothetically) run this maxim through a recursive computer algorithm, it would cause program error. For, if Dada does not obey this rule then Dada would be free to follow any rules (a direct refutation of this maxim), but if it obeys this maxim then there is at least one rule which it is following (a contradiction). In the language of computer programming this is fatal (it prevents an exit condition from being met) but for the artist this might be the ultimate goal of his/her art.\n\nThe technical definition of anti-genre (hard version) is not merely art that insults its predecessors. The hard version is more active in its flight from meaning. It is self-consciously involved in the process of not just breaking with tradition but undoing the entire framework that distinguishes the different genre categories in that medium. Silence in place of music and the blank canvas in place of paint, are two obvious examples of this.\n\nThe soft version however, is a little harder to nail down. The definition of a soft anti-genre might include art intentionally dispensing with conventions of its medium or violently breaking with tradition by subversion, vandalism-art, irrationality, self-defeat or other strategies in a rebellious spirit.\n\nThe problem with this lighter version of anti-genre is that all artistic movements by definition represent a decisive break with the traditions that came before them. If not, then they would merely be continuous with their predecessors. This is known as the process of dialectic. First, a thesis is proposed. Then the thesis is rejected by the anti-thesis. This rejection is eventually accepted by the community and a synthesis of thesis and anti-thesis come together to create the new proposal ready for rejection. And so the cycle continues.\n\nIt is important to emphasize the hard and soft distinction however because there is a tendency in postmodernity to associate negative/rebellious attitudes in artistic movements with formal categories like anti-genre, despite the fact that the anti-genre, in its hard version, has a much more technical definition.\n\nWhat is the logical conclusion of an artistic movement that is essentially suicidal? (see Paradox of the Anti-genre section)\n\nAfter annihilating everything in their path, every artistic style and movement that had come before them, every political attitude and social value, the DaDa artist eventually had nothing left to consume and so retired to a life of seclusion and chess.\n\nLikewise, and for all of his proselytizing (calling for a complete transvaluation of all human values), Nietzsche ended his life deep inside a state of mental illness.\nAnd so it is not uncommon to hear writers lament that the only cure for history is a good psychiatrist and a lot of prescription medicine.\n"}
{"id": "57478241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57478241", "title": "ArtStars* TV", "text": "ArtStars* TV\n\nArtStars* is a YouTube show hosted by Nadja Sayej that focuses on comedic conversations in the art world. It was founded in 2009 in Toronto with video artist Jeremy Bailey and video editor Ryan Edwards. The show has been called \"a gonzo skewering of sanctified art pretense\".\n\nAs one of the first vlogs in the art world, the episodes have been described as gonzo and satirical for crashing gallery openings and interviewing \"art stars, their groupies and the people who go to galleries just for the booze\". The interview style and commentary in the show \"punctures pretension, deflate egos and delight lovers of lively criticism\".\n\nIt follows the tradition of reporting on the art scene, similar to the GalleryBeat TV cable access TV show in New York City in the 1980s. The show has been noted for making the art world more accessible.\n\nEpisodes include interviews with noteworthy artists John Waters, Ai Weiwei, Robert Crumb, Marina Abramović, Peaches, and Julian Schnabel.\n"}
{"id": "43844886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43844886", "title": "Bibliography of the Kent State shootings", "text": "Bibliography of the Kent State shootings\n\nThis is a bibliography on the Kent State shootings. External links to reports, news articles and other sources of information may also be found below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39178155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39178155", "title": "Bilingual lexical access", "text": "Bilingual lexical access\n\nBilingual lexical access is an area in psycholinguistics research that studies the activation or retrieval process of the mental lexicon for people who can speak two languages. Bilingual lexical access can be understood as all aspects of word processing, including all the mental activity from the perception of the word from one language until all its lexical knowledge from the target language is available. Research in this field seeks to fully understand these mental processes. Bilingual individuals have two mental lexical representations for an item or concept and are able to successfully select words from one language without significant interference from the other language. Thus, it is important to understand whether these dual representations interact or affect one another. Bilingual lexical access researchers focus on the control mechanisms bilinguals use to suppress the language not in use when in a monolingual mode and the degree to which the related representations within the language not in use are activated. For example, when a Dutch-English bilingual is asked to name a picture of a dog in English, he or she will come up with the English word \"dog\". Bilingual lexical access is the mental process that underlies this seemingly simple task: the process that makes the connection between the \"idea\" dog and the word \"dog\" in the target language. While activating the English word \"dog\", the Dutch word \"hond\" (its equivalent in Dutch)\", \"is most likely also in a state of activation.\n\nEarly research of bilingual lexical access was generated from the theories of unilingual lexical access. \nTheories derived from early unilingual research relied mainly upon generalizations without precise specification of how these specific systems of lexical access works. Due to the advancement of medical science within the last decade, the field of Psycholinguistics has evolved immensely, resulting in more detailed research and therefore, a deeper understanding of the mechanisms behind language production. \"Many early studies of second language acquisition focused on the morphosyntactic development of learners, and the general findings was that bound morphemes appear in the same order in the first and second language\"(Bardovi-Harlig 1999. In addition, \"second language learners are also able to produce and process simple sentences before complex sentences\" (Pienemann et al.2005), just like first language learners. For example, the theory of serial search models and parallel access models. \"Serial Search Models\" propose that when monolinguals encounter a word, they will look through all the lexical entries to distinguish whether the input item is a word not, and then they will only retrieve the necessary information about that word (i.e., its semantics or orthography). They also propose that the lexical access would process sequentially by activating only one lexical entry at a time. In contrast, the \"Parallel Access Models\" believe that multiple entries can be activated at once, which means that the perceptual input from a word would activate all lexical items directly, even though some of them might not be necessary. In this way, numbers of potential candidates would be activated simultaneously and then the lexical candidates which are most consistent with the input stimulus would be chosen. Later, the researchers addressed that both the serial and parallel process are accounted for the lexical organization and lexical access.\nKnowledge of unilingual access has inevitably led to the curiosity of bilingual lexical access. Early models of bilingual lexical access shared similar characteristics with these unilingual lexical access models. For example, the bilingual models began with focusing on whether the lexical access for bilinguals would be different from monolinguals. In addition to study the activation process in separate language, they also investigated whether the lexical activation would be processed in a parallel fashion for both languages or selectively processed for the target language. In this case, the bilingual models also studied whether the bilingual system has a single lexicon combining words from both languages or separate lexicons for words in each language. With the occurrence of widespread computational modeling, researchers extended the theoretical approaches for the studies of bilingual lexical access.The computational models are now essential component for mainstream theories, for example, the models of Bilingual Interactive Activation [BIA] model, \nthe Semantic, Orthographic and Phonological Interactive Activation [SOPIA] model, and the Bilingual interactive Model of Lexical Access [BLMOLA]. Since most computational models need to specify all the vague descriptive notions used in the earlier models, they force researchers to be more clarified with their theories. Those revised models can also serve as to test the viability of the original theories by comparing the empirical results with data generated from the model. In addition, the computational models can also help to generate new testable hypothesis and allow researchers to manipulate conditions which might not be possible in normal experimentation. For example, researchers can investigate and simulate the lexical access systems under various states of damage without using aphasic people.\n\nThe two most prominent theories on lexical access for bilinguals, Language Selective Access and Language Non-Selective Access, attempt to explain the process and stages of lexical activation and selection. These hypotheses focus on determining whether lexical candidates from different languages that share similar lexical features are activated when a word is presented. For instance, when the Dutch word \"vork\" is activated, is the English word \"pork\" also activated? If the answer is \"no\", it might suggest that language selection happens before the recognition of a word and only the lexical information of the target language is selectively activated, in which case lexical access is language selective. If the answer is \"yes\", it might suggest the other possibility that the recognition of a word is processed in parallel for both languages and the lexical information of both languages are activated, in which case lexical access is language non-selective. Research pertaining to lexical access has indicated that it is not achievable to completely suppress a known language.\n\nLanguage-selective access is the exclusive activation of information in the contextually appropriate language system. It implies that when a bilingual encounters a spoken or written word, the activation is restricted to the target language subsystem, which contains the input word.\n\nOne possibility is that bilinguals initially make a decision about the language of the word and then activate the appropriate language-selected lexicon. In this mechanism, an executive system directs the language switch for the input word. In earlier studies, researchers found that bilinguals can comprehend passages composed of words entirely from only one language more quickly than passages composed of words from both languages. They explain this result as an involuntary switch that happens when bilinguals comprehend passages with two languages. When comprehension procedures in one language fail due to the language contextually changing, then the switch mechanism will automatically direct input to another language system. Therefore, bilinguals are slower at reading mixed language passages than at single language passages because they must spend time on switching languages. However, those studies failed to consider that the two languages might be activated simultaneously and there might be a later lexical competition in choosing which language information to use. The later lexical completion can also be used to explain why bilinguals spend more time understanding passages in mixed languages. However, other studies have found that there is no significant cost incurred by inter-sentential language switching and mixing. showed that there was no cost to switching between languages when bilinguals read sentences for comprehension. Additionally, Guzzardo Tamargo, R.E. found that when making metalinguistic judgments and performing non-comprehension based tasks, switch costs were evident but there was no evidence to support the hypothesis that there is a cost at the switch site when bilinguals read a mixed sentence. This indicates that under normal circumstances and given sufficient linguistic context, language switching does not incur a cost.\n\nIn studies that investigate whether lexical candidates from different languages are activated selectively or non-selectively during bilingual lexical access, there are two basic types of stimuli used: interlingual homographs and cognates. Interlingual homographs are words from two languages that are identical in their orthography, but different in their meaning, or phonology. For example, the English word \"room\" means \"cream\" in Dutch. Cognates are words from two languages which are identical (or very similar) in orthography and also have large overlap in their meaning. For example, the word \"film\" is cognate for English and Dutch. Researchers used those types of stimuli to investigate whether bilinguals process them in the same way as the matched control words which occur only in one language. If the reaction time (RT) of interlexical homographs is same as the controlled monolingual word, then it supports the language-selective access hypothesis. If RT is significantly different for interlexical homographs than for the controlled monolingual word, it supports the language-nonselective access hypothesis.\n\nIn most early studies, researchers did not find clear RT differences between test items (interlexical homographs or cognates) and control items. For example, in Gerard and Scarborough’s word recognition research with English monolinguals and Spanish-English bilinguals, cognates, homograph non-cognates and nonhomographic control words were used. The cognates and control words were either high frequency or low frequency in both English and Spanish. The homographic non-cognates were high frequency in English and low frequency in Spanish or vice versa. The results generally supported the language-selective hypothesis. Even though there was a significant main effect of word type for the bilingual group, it was mainly caused by the slow response to homographic noncognates which were of low frequency in the target language but of high frequency in the non-target language. Finally, there was no significant difference in the reaction time between bilinguals and monolinguals, which suggested that the lexical access for bilinguals in this research was restricted to only one language.\n\nLanguage-nonselective access is the automatic co-activation of information in both linguistic systems. It implies that when a bilingual encounters a spoken or written word, the activation happens in both contextually appropriate and inappropriate linguistic subsystems. Also, there is evidence that bilinguals take longer than monolinguals to detect non-words while in both bilingual and monolingual modes, providing evidence that bilinguals do not fully inactivate their other language while in a monolingual mode.\n\nIn spite of the observed null results which support the language-selective access, a sizable number of studies suggests that language-nonselective access, in which the representation of a word to a bilingual often gives rise to parallel activation in both languages, indeed takes place and it highly unlikely to completely suppress the other language. For example, Dijkstra, van Jaarsveld & Ten Brinke used an English lexical decision task for Dutch-English bilinguals on a list of cognate, homographs and English controlled words. Even though they did not find a significant difference in reaction time between interlingual homographs and English control words, they found that there was a significant facilitation effect of the cognates, which could be supportive evidence for the assumption of language-nonselective access. Later, De Moor repeated the English lexical decision study by Dijkstra et al. and found that the Dutch meaning of the interlingual homographs was also activated by English-Dutch bilinguals. Following each homographic trial, she used English trials which were the translation of the Dutch meaning of the previous homographs. For example, after the trial homographic word brand, the English word fire would be presented, which was the English translations of Dutch word brand. De Moor found there was a small but significant translation priming effect for the following English translation trials.It suggested that the lexical information of the Dutch word form was also activated, even though it did not affect the reaction time of the previous homographic trial.\n\nTo provide clarity, cross-linguistic influence can be understood as the various ways that two or more languages relate in the mind and affect a persons linguistic performance or development. Cross-linguistic effects of orthographic and semantic overlap between different languages of cognates and interlingual homographs were also reported in many priming studies. For example, Beauvillain and Grainger had French-English bilinguals make English lexical decisions on target strings primed by French words, which was told to the participants. The homographic primes were French words that were either semantically related to the English words (e.g., coin-money, where coin means corner in French) or not related. The results showed that the bilinguals responded faster in related conditions than unrelated conditions. Even though the participants knew that the prime words were always belonged to their French meaning, they were still affected by the English meaning of the homographic prime words. In the later studies, researchers masked the briefly presented prime words to prevent participants from using conscious strategies. For example, Sáchez-Casas et al. used Spanish-English bilinguals in a semantic categorization task on Spanish target words. They used three types of priming conditions: entirely identical cognates or non-cognates (rico-rico; pato-pato), translations of cognates or non-cognates (rich-rico; duck-pato) and non-word primes combined with cognate or non-cognate targets as a control condition (rict-rico vs. wuck-pato). They found that the bilinguals responded to the cognate translation conditions as fast as the identical conditions, but the non-cognate translation was as slow as the control conditions.\n\nOnce bilinguals acquire the lexical information from both languages, the bilingual lexical access will be activated in language comprehension. The lexical access in comprehension is the process how people make contact with lexical representation in their mental lexicon that contains the information, which enables them to understand the words or sentences. Word recognition would be no doubt the most essential process of bilingual lexical access in language comprehension, in which researchers investigate the selective or non-selective recognition of isolated words. At the same time, sentence processing also plays an important role in language comprehension, in which researchers can investigate whether the presentation of words in a sentence context would restrict lexical access to the target language only.\n\nWord recognition is usually used in both narrow and broad ways. When it is used in the narrow sense, it means the moment when a match occurs between a printed word and its orthographic word-form stored in the lexicon, or a match between a spoken word and its phonological word-form. Only after this match has taken place, all the syntactical and morphological information of the word and the meaning of the word will become accessible for further processing. In a broader way, it refers to lexical access is the entire period from the match processing to the retrieval of lexical information. In the research of bilingual lexical access, word recognition uses single, out-of-context words from both languages to investigate all the aspects of bilingual lexical access.\n\nIn word recognition studies, the cognate or interlingual homograph effects are most often used with following task:\n\nMost current models in word recognition take the assumption that bilingual lexical access is nonselective, which also take into account the demands of task and context dependence of processing.\n\nThe BIA model is an implemented connectionist model of bilingual visual word recognition. This language-nonselective model is structured by four hierarchical levels of different linguistic representations: letter features, letters, words, and language tags (or language node). When a word is presented by this model, the features of its constituted letters are firstly activated. Then, these letter features work together and activate the letters of which they are part in the presented words. In turn, these letters activate the words of that language. The word candidates activate the language nodes which are connected. They simultaneously send feedback activation to the letter level. Language nodes can also inhibit the activation of word candidates from other languages (e.g., the English language node reduces the activation of Dutch word candidates). After a complex interactive process of activation and inhibition, the lexical candidate corresponding to the presented word becomes the most active word unit.\n\nThe IC model is developed at large extent compatible with and complementary to the BIA model. This inhibitory control model focuses on the importance of task demands and regulation happened during language processing by modifying the levels of activation of items in language network. In this model, a key concept is the language task schema, which specifies the mental processing steps that bilinguals take to perform a particular language task. The language task schema regulates the output from the word identification system by altering the activation levels of representations within that system and by inhibiting outputs from the system. For example, when a bilingual switches from one language to another in translation, a change in the language schema corresponding to must take place.\n\nIn the language mode framework, language processing mechanisms and languages as a whole can be achieved to different extents. The relative activation state of language is called language mode, and it is influenced by many factors, such as the person spoken or listened to, users’ language proficiency, the nonlinguistic context and so on. Language users can be in a bilingual mode if they are talking to other bilinguals or reading text with mixed languages. However, if they listen to someone who is monolingual or is just speaking one language, the activation state would switch to a more monolingual mode. Based on this model, the bilinguals' language mode depends on the language users' expectation and by language environment.\n\nThe BIA+ model is an extension and adaptation of the BIA model. The BIA+ model includes not only orthographic representation and language nodes, but also phonological and semantic representations. All these representations are assumed to be part of a word identification system that provides output to a task/decision system. The information flow in bilingual lexical processing proceeds exclusively from the word identification system toward a task/decision system without any influence of this task/decision system on the activation state of words.\n\nMost current studies of bilingual lexical access are based on the comprehension of isolated words without considering whether contextual information affects lexical access in bilinguals. However, in everyday communication, words are most often encountered in a meaningful context and not in isolation (e.g. in a newspaper article). Research done by Déprez (1994) has shown that mixed utterances in children are not limited to the lexical level but also in the areas of morphology, syntax, and pronunciation. Researchers also began to investigate the cognitive nature of bilingual lexical access in context by examining word recognition in sentences.\n\nIn sentence processing, a number of on-line measuring techniques are exploited to detect the cognitive activity at the very moment it takes place or only slightly after. The cognate or interlingual homograph words are often used as a marker inserted in test sentences with following tasks:\n\n\nThe question whether the presentation of words in a sentence context restricts lexical access to words of the target language only are most studied in bilinguals' second language (L2) processing. This sentence context effect might be an efficient strategy to speed up lexical search, because it reduces the number of lexical candidates. For example, Elston-Guttler et al. showed that cross-lingual activation is very sensitive to the influence of a sentence context and previous activation state of the two languages in a semantic priming study. In their study, German-English bilinguals were presented with relatively low-constraint sentences in which a homograph (e.g., The woman gave her friend a pretty GIFT; \"gift\" means poison in \"German\") or a control word was presented at the end (e.g., The woman gave her friend a pretty SHELL). \"Constraint\" means the degree to which the sentence frame preceding the target word biased that word. The sentence was then replaced by a target word (poison) for lexical decision task. They found that only for participants who saw a German film prior to experiment and only in the first block of the experiment, participants could recognize the target faster after primed with the related homograph sentence than primed with the controlled sentence. This suggests that bilinguals can quickly \"zoom into\" the L2 processing situation even the L1 activation was boosted.\n\nLater, Schwartz and Kroll used cognate and homograph as target words presented in low- and high-constraint sentences to Spanish-English bilinguals. They investigated how word presentation and the semantic constraint modulated language lexical access in bilinguals. Schwartz and Kroll used rapid serial visual presentation and the target word had to be named. No homograph effects were found, but less proficient bilinguals made more naming errors, especially in low-constraint sentences. They observed cognate facilitation (nonselective bilingual lexical access) in low-constraint sentences, but not in high-constraint ones. The results suggest that the semantic constraint of a sentence may restrict cross-lingual activation effects. Similar results on cognate effects were obtained by van Hell and de Groot in their study of Dutch-English bilinguals in an L2 lexical decision task and a translation task in forward (from L1 to L2) and in backward direction (from L2 to L1). Libben and Titone used eye tracking methodology and found that the cognate facilitation in semantically constraint sentences only happened at early stages of comprehension and rapidly resolved at later stages of comprehension.\n\nAlthough the majority of studies on bilingual sentence processing are focused on L2 processing, there are still a few studies that have investigated cross-language activation during their native language (L1) reading. For example, van Assche et al. replicated the cognate effect in L1 with Dutch-English bilinguals, and found that a non-dominant language may affect native-language sentence reading, both at earliest and at later reading stages. Titone et al. observed this cross-language activation in English-French bilinguals at early reading stages only when the L2 was acquired early in life. They also concluded that the semantic constraint provided by a sentence can attenuate cross-language activation at later reading stages.\n\n"}
{"id": "11149014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11149014", "title": "C. Martin Wilbur", "text": "C. Martin Wilbur\n\nClarence Martin Wilbur (1907–1997) was the George Sansom Professor of Chinese History at Columbia University from 1947 to 1976.\n\nBorn in Dayton, Ohio, Wilbur went at an early age with his parents to China, where they worked with the YMCA. He returned to Ohio for college, graduating from Oberlin College in 1931. His first job after receiving his PhD from Columbia University in 1941 was with the Field Museum, in Chicago, where he prepared for publication a study of plant migration left by Berthold Laufer after his death and developed a monograph on slavery in the Han Dynasty.\n\nAfter moving to Columbia University in 1947, he was instrumental in turning the graduate program into one of the nation's leading programs and supervised many influential graduate students. His focus of research was Republican China, especially the career of Sun Yatsen and the rise of the Nationalist Party. He was also a central figure in organizing the Columbia Oral History Project. Upon his retirement in 1976, his students presented him with \"Perspectives on a Changing China: Essays in Honor of Professor C. Martin Wilbur on the Occasion of His Retirement\" ed. by Joshua A. Fogel and William Rowe, Westview Press (1979) \n\n"}
{"id": "24697824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24697824", "title": "Capital City Distribution", "text": "Capital City Distribution\n\nCapital City Distribution was a Madison, Wisconsin-based comic book distributor which operated from 1980 to 1996 when they were acquired by rival Diamond Comic Distributors. Under the name Capital Comics, they also published comics from 1981 to 1984.\n\nDuring most of its years of operation, Capital City introduced many supply chain innovations and controlled much of the American Midwest's comics distribution market. More so than their rivals Diamond and Heroes World Distribution, Capital City supported independent publishers as much as big mainstream companies like DC Comics and Marvel Comics. \n\nCapital City also published over 400 pages of printed material a month, including \"Internal Correspondence\", which provided sales figures to their clients; and \"Advance Comics\", their monthly catalog showcasing upcoming comic books, toys, and other pop-culture related items it distributed to comic book specialty shops.\n\nIn the 1970s, Milton Griepp and John Davis were running a small Madison-based distributor called Wisconsin Independent News Distributors (WIND). Forced to sell their assets to Big Rapids Distribution, Griepp and Davis later turned the tables in 1980 when they took over much of Big Rapids' bankrupt business to form Capital City.\n\nOne of Capital City's first acts was to utilize the personnel of another former Big Rapids' acquisition, Well News Co. of Columbus, Ohio, to become the nucleus of an early distribution branch. In 1982, Capital City acquired the Berkeley, California-based Common Ground Distributors, which had been started by Robert Beerbohm in the late 1970s (and had been initially supplied by Big Rapids).\n\nCapital City's Wisconsin location was relatively near World Color Press's main printing plant in Sparta, Illinois. (During that period World Color printed most American comic books, including those of the two industry giants Marvel and DC.) By 1982, Capital City operated out of a large warehouse in Madison that they shared with their largest account, mail-order retailer Westfield Comics.\n\nGriepp became Capital City's CEO in 1984. That same year, with the demise of one of the larger independent publisher/distributors, Pacific Comics, Pacific's distribution centers and warehouses were purchased by Capital City and rival distributor Bud Plant Inc. Capital City also opened an expanded facility in Sparta, Illinois, in the old space of another defunct rival, Sea Gate Distributors, alongside the comic-book printing plant.\n\nBy 1988, Capital City and its main surviving rival Diamond Comics Distributors had control of at least 70% of the comics distribution market between them.\n\nIn 1994, Capital created controversy by announcing penalties for publishers who didn't deliver their products within promised deadlines; this move followed an industry-wide push for 30-day returnability, a practice formerly in use when comics were primarily distributed in newsstands.\n\nBy this point, Capital City's Canadian affiliate, STV, had warehouses in Toronto, Montreal, and Quebec City; and Capital City had another freight forwarder operating out of Seattle, Washington.\n\n1995 saw a major restructuring of the direct market distribution system, caused by Marvel Comics's late-1994 purchase of third-ranked distributor Heroes World Distribution and decision to distribute its titles in-house. Faced with the loss of one-third of its business (Marvel's market share) Diamond reacted by outbidding Capital City for exclusive deals with Marvel's main rival DC Comics; and despite intense efforts on the part of Davis and Griepp, Dark Horse Comics and Image Comics as well.\n\nCapital City reacted by suing Marvel for the loss of their business, resulting in a settlement allowing them to continue distributing Marvel product until October 1995 (for everyone else, Marvel went exclusive with Heroes World starting in July). In addition, Capital City was able to sign exclusive deals with Kitchen Sink Press, TSR, and Viz Comics—as well as acquiring the Gary, Indiana-based distributor Friendly Frank's. Nonetheless, by 1996 Capital faced the choice between bankruptcy and selling out.\n\nIn July 1996 Capital City was acquired by Diamond. At the time of sale, Capital had over $150 million in annual sales. The purchase price was not disclosed, but the acquisition brought an estimated $50 million in sales revenue to Diamond, and effectively awarded Diamond complete control of the comics distribution system. Most of Capital City's 100 employees in Madison and another 100 in Sparta lost their jobs in the deal, though a few key staff members, including co-founder John Davis, joined Diamond's staff.\n\nAfter selling Capital, Griepp became an industry consultant, and since early 2001, has operated ICv2 (\"\"Internal Correspondence\" vol. 2\"), an online trade magazine covering \"geek culture.\"\n\nIn 1981, Capital City decided to enter the comic book publishing field as well. Under the name Capital Comics, they launched a black-and-white comics title, \"Nexus\", a futuristic superhero series by Mike Baron and Steve Rude, and distributed it through their own system.\n\nRichard Bruning was a key part of Capital Comics' staff, acting as Editor-In-Chief and Art Director until the company ceased operation in 1984. Besides \"Nexus\", the other titles published by Capital were \"Badger\" and \"Whisper\". In 1984, after publishing only a handful of issues of their three titles, Capital shut down its publishing operation. Its titles were taken over by the new independent publisher First Comics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28198432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28198432", "title": "Chasing Mummies", "text": "Chasing Mummies\n\nChasing Mummies: The Amazing Adventures of Zahi Hawass is a reality television series that aired on The History Channel in the United States. Produced by Boutique TV, the series depicted the adventures of archaeologist and Egyptologist Dr. Zahi Hawass and his discoveries in Egypt as he is followed by young archeological fellows and a camera crew. Due to the comedic nature of many of the interactions depicted, it is not hard to speculate that Dr. Hawass, the producer, and cast are filming what turns out to be a running inside joke between themselves. The series ran Wednesdays on the History Channel from July 14, 2010 until its end on September 15, 2010. The shows illustrates the complexities in the almost never-ending quest to preserve and discover artifacts from ancient Egypt.\n\n\n\n\"Chasing Mummies\" has been largely panned by critics, who write that Hawass is unlikeable and that the show is not an authentic documentary series. Summarizing the show, New York Times columnist Neil Genzlinger writes, \"[O]ne hopes that this show will, like some of those ancient pharaohs, die young, or that Dr. Hawass will unearth some ancient Egyptian chill pills and swallow a generous helping.\" He said that a segment showing an intern locked in a pyramid did not seem genuine, and that the show is \"intent on forcing drama into the proceedings in a way that seems artificial.\"\n\nTVGA describes the show as \"a reality series in the tradition of Bravo's \"Flipping Out\". Like egomaniacal but essentially harmless blowhard Jeff Lewis, Zahi Hawass...is set up to be the comically abusive centerpiece of the show.\" Referring to an \"intern\" on the show, TVGA said, \"If Zoe's not an actress and this show [is] not severely engineered / scripted, I'd both be surprised and deeply curious about how the hell \"Chasing Mummies\" could look this level of manipulated and artificial.\" The Egyptian daily \"Almasry Alyoum\" called that incident a \"rather obvious bit of staged drama,\" and said that Hawass \"is shown berating underlings in both English and Arabic, talking about himself in the third person and generally acting like a bit of a cartoon.\" The newspaper said \"Chasing Mummies\" \"often verges on self-parody.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "3770083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3770083", "title": "Chicana feminism", "text": "Chicana feminism\n\nChicana feminism, also called Xicanisma, is a sociopolitical movement in the United States that analyzes the historical, cultural, spiritual, educational, and economic intersections of Mexican-American women that identify as Chicana. Chicana feminism challenges the stereotypes that Chicanas face across lines of gender, ethnicity, race, class, and sexuality. Most importantly, Chicana feminism serves as a movement, theory and praxis that helps women reclaim their existence between and among the Chicano Movement and American feminist movements.\n\nEmerging out of the identity movements of the 1960s, Chicana feminists created a distinctive trajectory and mapping of feminist political thought and practice that centered their unique experiences with gender, race, class and sexuality. Since many feminist methodologies are similar in practice, Chicana feminists distinguished themselves from other feminists by centering their unique lived experiences with gender, race, class, sexuality and nationalism – offering critiques and responses to their exclusion from both the mainstream Chicano nationalist movement and the second wave feminist movement. One important way they were able to do this was through the inclusion of different varieties of the Spanish language, a vital component to the preservation of Chicano/a culture.\n\nChicana feminism maintains that throughout history, women have been oppressed, and sometimes even abused, in many different societies. In Latin America, just as in Europe, Asia and Africa, many women were, for centuries, treated by their fathers, brothers and husbands with discrimination. Women in Latin America, Mexico included, were seen as child-bearers, homemakers, and caregivers. These women had to watch their children, perform household chores, and cook for their husbands. Many men did not consider women to be capable of working outside the home, which is part of the reason why the term \"weaker sex\" was coined.\n\nIn Latin America, women at those times had to act according to some social standards. In many Latin American cities, for example, women were not seen with good eyes if they spoke to men they did not know. Meanwhile, prostitution, for example, was legal in many Latin American areas, and men were not criticized, but rather seen as heroic, if they had several girlfriends, even if the man was married.\n\nIn 1848, with the signing of the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo, Mexico ceded to the US: Arizona, California, New Mexico, Nevada, Utah, and part of Colorado and Wyoming. Former citizens of Mexico living in those territories became US citizens.\n\nDuring the twentieth century, Hispanic immigration to the United States began to slowly but steadily change American demographics. By 1940, Los Angeles was one of the cities with the largest group of Chicanos in the United States.\n\nEuro-American women also had their own problems: they were also stereotyped as homemakers, caregivers, and child-bearers. Unlike women of minority races, however, white women largely evaded dealing with racism, unless they or their husbands befriended people of Black or Hispanic background. Euro-American women combated this with the emergence of waves of feminism, the first wave addressed suffrage while the second wave of feminism discussed issues of sexuality, private vs. the public sphere, reproductive rights, and marital rape.\n\nChicana feminists challenged their prescribed role in \"la familia\", and demanded to have the intersectional experiences that they faced recognized. Chicanas identify as being consciously aware, self-determined, proud of their roots, heritage, and experience while prioritizing La Raza. With the emergence of the Chicano Movement, the structure of Chicano families saw dramatic changes. Specifically, women began to question the role that they were assigned within the family and where their place was within the Chicano national struggle. In the seminal text, La Chicana by Elizabeth Martinez, Martinez writes: “She [La Chicana] is oppressed by the forces of racism, imperialism, and sexism. This can be said of all non-white women in the United States. Her oppression by the forces of racism and imperialism is similar to that endured by our men. Oppression by sexism, however, is hers alone.” Women also sought out to battle the internalized struggles of self-hatred rooted in the colonization of their people. This included breaking the mujer buena/mujer mala myth, in which the domestic Spanish Woman is viewed as good and the Indigenous Woman that is a part of the community is viewed as bad. Chicana feminist thought emerged as a response to patriarchy, racism, classism, and colonialism as well as a response to all the ways that these legacies of oppression have become internalized.\n\nWhat are the issues happening in Chicana feminism now and then?\n\nChicana feminism have many different movements within the culture and ethnicities, according to Garcia (1989) the Chicana feminist movement was created to adhere to the specific issues which have had on Chicana women of colour which has originated from the Chicano movement because women desired to be treated equally and have the acceptance and motivation to what the Chicanos were doing.\n\nThe Chicana feminist movement has certainly influenced many Chicana women to be more active and to defend their rights not just as single women but women in solidarity who come together forming a society with equal contribution.\n\nChicana feminist Garcia (1989) has noted that awareness is only the start such awareness becomes the catalyst for change which is what Chicana feminism is about Chicana feminism is also about creating intersectionality.\n\nMilestones of Chicana feminism?\n\nØ  1963 Raza Unida party Chicano student movement citizenship which includes training conferences for Mexican and American youth this party also won the electoral victory crystal city.\n\nØ  Second wave feminism which created the national council of negro women active founded by Dorothy Height.\n\nØ  1967/1970- Chicana feminism (Brown Berets created by Viki Castro who then re-named themselves Las Adelitas de Azlan.  \n\nBeginning in the 1940s, Mexican-Americans led a civil rights movement with a goal of achieving Mexican-American empowerment. By the 1960s, the Chicano Movement, also known as \"El Movimiento\", became a prominent campaign in the lives of many Mexican-American workers and youth.\n\nIn 1962, The United Farm Workers (UFW) organization was founded by César Chávez, Dolores Huerta, and Philip Vera Cruz.\n\nBetween the late 1960s through the 1970s, The Chicano Student Movement began in which students fought and organized for better quality education.\n\nThe first efforts of organizing the Chicana Feminist Movement began in the later part of the 1960s. During the Chicano Movement, Chicana women formed committees within Chicano organizations. Similar to the organization of other groups in the Women's Movement, the Chicana feminists organized consciousness-raising groups and held conferences specific to the issues that Chicana women faced.\n\nAlthough community organizers were working toward empowering the Mexican-American community, the narrative of the Chicano Movement largely ignored the women that were involved with organizing during this time of civil disobedience.\n\nChicana Feminism serves to highlight a much greater movement than generally perceived; a variety of minority groups are given a platform to confront their oppressors whether that be racism, homophobia, and multiple other forms of social injustice.\n\nChicana liberation unshackles individuals, as well as the broader group as a whole, allowing them to live lives as they desire – commanding cultural respect and equality.\n\nChicana feminists collectively realized the importance of connecting the issues of gender with need for improvement with respect to other civil liberties such as socioeconomic background, heritage, and many others.\n\nThe Brown Berets were a youth group that took on a more militant approach to organizing for the Mexican-American community formed in California in the late 1960s.\n\nThe 1969 Chicano Youth Liberation Conference began the Chicano Movement and eventually, MEChA. At the conference women began to get involved in the male-dominated dialogue to address feminist concerns.\n\nAt the first National Chicana Conference held in Houston, Texas in May 1971, over 600 women organized to discuss issues surrounding regarding equal access to education, reproductive justice, formation of childcare centers, and more (Smith, 2002). While the event was the first major gathering of its kind, the conference itself was fraught with discord as Chicanas from geographically and ideologically divergent positions sparred over the role of feminism within the Chicano movement. These conflicts led to a walkout on the final day of the conference.\n\nRevolutionary chicanas during this time period while critiquing the inability of the mainstream Chicano nationalist movements to address sexism and misogyny, simultaneously renounced the mainstream Second Wave feminist movement for its inability to include racism and classism in their politics. Chicanas during this time felt excluded from mainstream feminist movements because they had different needs, concerns and demands. Through persistent objections to their exclusions women have gone from being called Chicano women to Chicanas to introducing the adoption of a/o or o/a as a way of acknowledging both genders when discussing the community. Chicanas demanded free day-care centers and a reform of the welfare system, they sought to fight against all three structures of oppression they faced, including sexism, but also prioritizing racism and imperialism.\n\nOne of the First Chicana organizations was the Comisión Femenil Mexicana Nacional (CFMN), founded in 1973. The concept for the CFMN originated during the National Chicano Issues Conference when a group of attending Chicanas noticed that their concerns were not adequately addressed at the Chicano conference. The women met outside of the conference and drafted a framework for the CFMN that established them as active and knowledgeable community leaders of a people's movement.\n\nCentral to much of Chicana feminism is a reclaiming of the female archetypes La Virgen de Guadalupe, La Llorona, and La Malinche. These archetypes have prevented Chicanas from achieving sexual and bodily agency due to the ways they have been historically constructed as negative categories through the lenses of patriarchy and colonialism. Shifting the discourse from a traditional (patriarchal) representation of these archetypes to a de-colonial feminist understanding of them is a crucial element of contemporary Chicana feminism, and represents the starting point for a reclamation of Chicana female power, sexuality, and spirituality.\n\nLa Virgen de Guadalupe and La Malinche have become symbolic means of suppressing Chicana women's sexuality through the patriarchal dichotomy of puta/virgin, the positive role model and the negative one, historically and continuously held up before Mexican women as icons and mirrors in which to examine their own self-image and define their self-esteem. Gloria Anzaldúa's canonical text addresses the subversive power of reclaiming indigenous spirituality to unlearn colonial and patriarchal constructions and restrictions on women, their sexuality, and understandings of motherhood. Anzaldúa writes, \"I will no longer be made to feel ashamed of existing. I will have my voice: Indian, Spanish, white\". La Malinche is a victim of centuries of patriarchal myths that permeate the Mexican woman's consciousness, often without her awareness.\n\nMalintzin (also known as Doña Marina by the Spaniards or \"La Malinche\" post-Mexican independence from Spain) was born around 1505 to noble Indigenous parents in rural Mexico. Since Indigenous women were often used as pawns for political alliances at this time, she was betrayed by her parents and sold into slavery between the ages of 12–14, traded to Hernan Cortés as a concubine, and because of her intelligence and fluency in multiple languages, was promoted to his \"wife\" and diplomat. She served as Cortés's translator, playing a key role in the Spaniard's conquest of Tenochtitlan and, by extension, the conquest of Mexico. She bore Cortés a son, Martín, who is considered to be the first mestizo and the beginning of the \"Mexican\" race.\n\nAfter Mexico gained independence from Spain in 1821, a scapegoat was needed to justify centuries of colonial rule. Because of Malintzin's relationship with Cortés and her role as translator and informant in Spain's conquest of Mexico, she was seen as a traitor to her race. By contrast, Chicana feminism calls for a different understanding. Since nationalism was a concept unknown to Indigenous people in the 16th century, Malintzin had no sense of herself as \"Indian\", making it impossible for her to show ethnic loyalty or conscientiously act as a traitor. Malintzin was one of millions of women who were traded and sold in Mexico pre-colonization. With no way to escape a group of men, and inevitably rape, Malintzin showed loyalty to Cortés to ensure her survival.\n\nLa Malinche has become the representative of a female sexuality that is passive, \"rape-able\", and always guilty of betrayal. Rather than a traitor or a \"whore\", Chicana feminism calls for an understanding of her as an agent within her limited means, resisting rape and torture (as was common among her peers) by becoming a partner and translator to Cortés. Placing the blame for Mexico's conquest on Malintzin creates a foundation for placing upon women the responsibility to be the moral compasses of society and blames them for their sexuality, which is counterintuitive. It is important to understand Malintzin as a victim not of Cortés, but of myth. Chicana feminism calls for an understanding in which she should be praised for the adaptive resistance she exhibited that ultimately led to her survival.\n\nBy challenging patriarchal and colonial representations, Chicana writers re-construct their relationship to the figure of La Malinche and these other powerful archetypes, and reclaim them in order to re-frame a spirituality and identity that is both decolonizing and empowering.\n\nOne critique of Chicana feminism was that it was a separatist movement that would divide the Chicano Movement. Loyalist Chicanas felt that the creation of a separate Chicana feminist movement was a dangerous and divisive political tactic, influenced too heavily by the Anglo women's movement. Loyalists believed that racism was the most important issue Chicanos and Chicanas were facing. They felt that the sexual oppression Chicanas faced from Chicanos was the fault of the system rather than the men, and breaking down the racial oppression affecting both Chicanos and Chicanas would resolve the sexual inequality the women experienced.\n\nSimilarly, Chicana feminists have been blamed for tearing at the values of Chicano culture. The first reason for this is that loyalists believed Chicana feminists were anti-family, anti-culture, and anti-man, thus pitting them against the Chicano movement. Furthermore, feminism itself was viewed by many as individualistic and as something that was taking away from other issues, such as racism.\n\nHowever, following the contributions of Chicana feminist writers, including Gloria Anzaldúa and Cherríe Moraga, Chicana feminism has gained the support of feminists of diverse backgrounds. The emergence of queer theory and intersectionality in feminist movements has challenged the misogyny of the Chicano movement and has broadened and strengthened the Chicana/o movement to be in solidarity with other people of color in the United States.\n\nThe term \"Chicano\" originates from Aztec indigenous peoples who pronounced it \"meshicano\" in the native Nahuatl language. However, historically the Spaniards had no \"sh\" in their vocabulary and pronounced it \"mexicano\" (spelled mexicano), a pronunciation that has been carried into the present. Historically, the term Chicano has not always been positive and empowering. The term Chicano was for a long time used in a demeaning manner, and was associated with newly arrived Mexican immigrants in the early twentieth century until it was later reclaimed by Chicana feminists with the emergence of the Chicano Nationalist Movement. Many white Americans used the word Chicano to describe Mexican immigrants as poor, unskilled, and ignorant people. Later, the term was used to distinguish first-generation, American-born Mexican-Americans from the older generations of Mexican immigrants; two groups that were often separated by a language barrier. Most first-generation American Chicanos adopted English as their first language, with some Chicanos blending both English and Spanish to create a hybrid dialect or slang argot called caló (also called pachuco). The U.S. media, not being able to fully understand these emerging American identities, stigmatized Chicanos and Mexican in propagating the notion that came from a country of corruption, and that they were criminals, thieves, and immoral people.\n\nThe definitions of Chicana/o in the United States are contested. Because many Chicana/os are born to parents who are immigrants from Mexico, one definition of Chicana/o is rooted in the idea that this identity straddles two different worlds. The first world is that of the country of origin from which their families descended from, such as Mexico, Guatemala, or El Salvador. Many Chicanos today, for example, continue to practice the religion, language, and culture of their respective family's countries of origin. Another definition of Chicano is rooted in the identity being completely embedded within the \"American\" culture. Many Chicana/os have assimilated into \"American\" culture and use English as their primary language. Despite these two distinctions in definition, some might argue that Chicanos are stigmatized by both cultures because they don't fit into either one completely. For this reason, one view of Chicano identity is that a new culture is created in order to resist oppression and navigate both worlds.\n\nContemporary renditions of the word Chicano have been to replace the “C-H” beginning with the letter X, making the word Xicano. This is significant because it recenters the Nahua language and pronunciation of the sound “ch”, tying the Xicana/o to indigenous roots and decentering Eurocentric ties to identity.\n\nChicana feminism has also created another linguistic change, there is another “x” at the end of Xicanx, and it is being used to be inclusive of others gender identities and move away from a colonial imposed binary and gendered language. There has been resistance to this change in language and there is discussions of whether or not this is useful from academics and community members, Feminists and queer folk are fighting for this change in language be inclusive as well as creating a new formation of history. The usage of Xicanx is powerful due to trying to move back to indigenous roots as well as trying to create more space for Queer folk who have been marginalized by previous Chicano/a movements.  \n\nThe concept of \"The New Mestiza\" comes from feminist author, Gloria Anzaldúa. In her book, \"Borderlands/La Frontera: The New Mestiza\", she writes: \"In a constant state of mental nepantilism, an Aztec word meaning torn between ways, la mestiza is a product of the transfer of the cultural and spiritual values of one group to another. Being tricultural, monolingual, bilingual or multilingual, speaking a patois, and in a state of perpetual transition, the mestiza faces the dilemma of the mixed breed: which collectivity does the daughter of a dark-skinned mother listen to? [...] Within us and within la Cultura Chicana, commonly held beliefs of the white culture attack commonly held beliefs of the Mexican culture, and both attack commonly held beliefs of the indigenous culture. Subconsciously, we see an attack on ourselves and our beliefs as a treat and we attempt to block with a counterstance.\" Anzaldua presents a mode of being for Chicanas, that honors their unique standpoint and lived experience. This theory of embodiment offers a mode of being for Chicanas who are constantly negotiating hybridity and cultural collision, and the ways that inform the way they are continuously making new knowledge and understandings of self, often time in relation to intersecting and various forms of oppression. This theory discloses how a counter-stance cannot be a way of life because it depends on hegemonic constructions of domination, in terms of race, nationality, and culture. A counter-stance locks one into a duel of oppressor and oppressed; locked in mortal combat, like the cop and the criminal, both are reduced to a common denominator of violence. Being solely reactionary means nothing is being created, revived or renewed in place of the dominant culture and that the dominant culture must remain dominant for counterstance to exist. For Anzaldua and this theory of embodiment, there must be space to create something new. The “new mestiza” was a canonical text that redefined what it meant to be Chicana. In this theory, being Chicana entails hybridity, contradictions, tolerance for ambiguity and plurality, nothing is rejected or excluded from histories and legacies of oppression. Further, this theory of embodiment calls for synthesizing all aspects of identity and creating new meanings, not simply balancing or coming together of different aspects of identity.\n\nMujerista was largely influenced by the African American women's \"Womanist\" approach proposed by Alice Walker. Mujerista was defined by Ada María Isasi-Díaz in 1996. This Latina feminist identity draws from the main ideas of womanism by combating inequality and oppression through participation in social justice movements within the Latina/o community. Mujerismo is rooted in the in relationships built with the community and emphasizes individual experiences in relation to \"communal struggles\" to redefine the Latina/o identity.\n\nNepantla is a Nahua word which translates to \"in the middle of it\" or \"middle\". Nepantla can be described as a concept or spirituality in which multiple realities are experienced at the same time (Duality). As a Chicana, understanding and having indigenous ancestral knowledge of spirituality plays an instrumental role in the path to healing, decolonization, cultural appreciation, self-understanding, and self-love. Nepantla is often associated with author Chicana feminist Gloria Anzaldúa, who coined the term, \"Nepantlera\". \"Nepantleras are threshold people; they move within and among multiple, often conflicting, worlds and refuse to align themselves exclusively with any single individual, group, or belief system.\" Nepantla is a mode of being for the Chicana and informs the way she experiences the world and various systems of oppression.\n\nSuzanne Bost discuss in \"Encarnacion : Illness and Body Politics in Chicana Feminist Literature,\" about how body politics has shifted in the way it used to be looked at by Chicana feminism. It has moved beyond just looking at identity politics, it now looks at how “[...]the intersections between particular bodies, cultural contexts, and political needs”. It is now looking beyond just looking at race, but incorporating intersectionality and how mobility, accessibility, mental and physical abilities, caregivers and their roles in lives, work with the body of Chicana's. Examples of Frida Kahlo and her abilities are discussed, as well as Gloria Anzaldua’s diabetes, to illustrated how abilities must be discussed when talking about identities. “Since there is no single or constant locus of identification, our analyses must adapt to different cultural frameworks, shifting feelings, and matter that is fluid.[...] our thinking about bodies, identities, and politics must keep moving.” Chicana feminism needs to move beyond just looking at singular aspects of identities, but using all of them and contextualizing it’s effects on what is going on in time. Identifying as Chicana/o/x means to be political and the body that you inhabit will be politicized as well, to understand how it is being politicized along with your identities is to look at how it is done. Bost uses examples of contemporary Chicana artists and literature to illustrate this, Chicana feminism hasn’t ended it is just manifesting in different ways now.\n\nChicana feminist theory evolved as a theory of embodiment and a theory of flesh due to the canonical works of Gloria Anzaldua and Cherrie Moraga, both of whom identify as queer. Queer interventions in Chicana feminist thought called for an inclusion and honoring of the cultures’ joteria. In La conciencia de la mestiza, Gloria Anzaldua wrote, “the mestizo and the queer exist at this time and point on the evolutionary continuum for a purpose. We are blending that proves that all blood is intricately woven together and that we are spawned out of similar souls” This intervention centers queerness as a focal part of liberation, a lived experience that cannot be ignored or excluded.\n\nIn Queer Aztlan: the Reformation of Chicano Tribe, Cherrie Moraga interrogates the construction of Chicano identity in relation with queerness. Offering a critique of the exclusion of people of color from mainstream gay movements as well as the homophobia rampant in Chicano nationalist movements. Moraga also discusses Aztlan, the metaphysical land and nation that belongs to Chicano ideologies, how this communidad and ideas need to move forward into making new forms of culture and community in order to survive. \"Feminist critics are committed to the preservation of Chicano culture, but we know that our culture will not survive marital rape, battering, incest, drug and alcohol abuse, AIDS, and the marginalization of lesbian daughters and gay sons\". Moraga brings up criticisms of the Chicano movement and how it has been ignoring the issues within the movement itself, and that need to be addressed in order for the culture to be preserved rightfully.\n\nIn \"Chicana Lesbians: Fear and Loathing in the Chicano Community,\" Carla Trujillo discusses how being a Chicana lesbian is incredibly difficult due to their culture's expectations on family and heterosexuality. Chicana lesbians who do become mothers break this expectation and become liberated from the social norms of their culture.\n\nIn 1991, Carla Trujillo edited and compiled, the anthology \"Chicana Lesbians: The Girls Our Mothers Warned Us About\" (1991) was published by Third Woman Press. This anthology was controversial and banned because of its cover art which was a piece by Ester Hernandez titled \"La Ofrenda\". Since its original publication, the book has been re-published however, the cover art has changed. This anthology includes poetry and essays by Chicana women creating new understandings of self through their sexuality and race. This book brings visibility to Lesbian Chicana writers and artists whose work hasn't been as mainstream as other feminist artists. The contributions pages gives information about the writers and their histories, this also makes the book transparent about who is writing and bringing visibility to various different names.\n\nECOFEMINISM IN CHICANA FEMINIST MOVEMENT\n\nChicana environmentalism combines the notion of ecofeminism and environmental justice whilst also providing a critique on the westernised view of ecofeminism and the toxicity caused by disregarding a certain race and the knowledge and history that they possess.\n\nIn the simplest terms, Ecofeminism can be defined as the significant connection between the oppression of women and nature, and the ways in which the two can coincide harmoniously.\n\nAfter the term ‘ecofeminism’ was derived in the 70’s, there has been a significant increase in the amount of recognition women have received regarding creating positive alternatives for sustainable practices. Due to environmental sustainability being predominately of a western, patriarchal mindset its important for women, specifically indigenous women, to reject these premises and follow more nurturing, traditional practices. Environmental conservation in Chicana culture can be interpreted in many different ways. Firstly, it can be seen as empowerment of ones’ culture, i.e. rejecting Eurocentric ideologies and believing in the “womanness” of curandera. Curandera in Mexican American culture is believed to have healing powers. Unpacking the notion of spirituality, the practise of curandera are often observed from the view point of the patriarchal spirituality as being the creation of witchcraft. Derived from European Christianity, curandera’s \"earth-based healing and nature-based spirituality\" was something to be feared by those who disregarded its importance.\n\nEco feminism is not just a birth right in Chicana history, but it is also strategic. Eco feminism allows for the empowerment of women and provides an authority position for women in society.  This power comes from an association of being nature goddesses and creates a sense of privilege that would otherwise cease to exist.\n\nSome of the ways in which Chicana women take back their ecological and ontological power can be seen through the use of literature and art. For example, murals in the San Francisco Bay area. Juana Alicia’s La Llorona’s Sacred Waters (2004) and MaestraPeace (1994), a collaboration among Juana Alicia, Miranda Bergman, Edith Boone, Susan Kelk Cervantes, Meera Desai, Yvonne Littleton, and Irene Pérez. La Llorana’s Sacred Waters murals exhibits many aspects of ecofeminism in the ways in which it draws to the devastation of colonialism and the ways in which it destroyed both the natural environment and the people that inhabited it. The mural also signifies the clear links between the relationship of women and nature. Chalchiuhtlicue is an indigenous goddess of the lakes and rivers, whilst also being associated with strong fertility. She served as having the power to both give life and take it away. The murals in the San Francisco bay area serve as a political statement of the duty of women’s social justice struggle and the constant resistance against colonialism and environmental depredation. In La llorana’s mural, Chalchiuhtlicue has a scroll rendering from her mouth with the message that she is speaking out against the horrid social conditions of her peoples.\n\nEcofeminism has always been a dominant part of the Chicana history, although very poorly documented. The diversity in the movement accounts for pushing towards an epistemological and ontological form of decolonization. The movement has been amplified through the reorienting of representation and by unpacking the way individuals absorbs the relationships between nature and spiritual relations.\n\nThrough different art mediums both past and contemporary, Chicana artists have continued to push the boundaries traditional Mexican-American values. \n\nSince the 1970s, many Chicana writers (such as Cherríe Moraga, Gloria Anzaldúa and Ana Castillo) have expressed their own definitions of Chicana feminism through their books. Moraga and Anzaldúa edited an anthology of writing by women of color titled \"This Bridge Called My Back\" (published by ) in the early 1980s. Cherríe Moraga, along with Ana Castillo and Norma Alarcón, adapted this anthology into a Spanish-language text titled \"Esta Puente, Mi Espalda: Voces de Mujeres Tercermundistas en los Estados Unidos\". Anzaldúa also published the bilingual (Spanish/English) anthology, \"\". Mariana Roma-Carmona, Alma Gómez, and Cherríe Moraga published a collection of stories titled \"Cuentos: Stories by Latinas\", also published by Kitchen Table: Women of Color Press.\n\nThe first Chicana Feminist Journal was published in 1973, called the Encuentro Feminil: The First Chicana Feminist Journal, which was published by Anna Nieto Gomez.\n\nJuanita Ramos and the Latina Lesbian History Project compiled an anthology including tatiana de la tierra's first published poem, \"De ambiente\", and many oral histories of Latina lesbians called \"Compañeras: Latina Lesbians\" (1987).\n\nChicana lesbian-feminist poet Gloria Anzaldua points out that labeling a writer based on their social position allows for readers to understand the writers' location in society. However, while it is important to recognize that identity characteristics situate the writer, they do not necessarily reflect their writing. Anzaldua notes that this type of labeling has the potential to marginalize those writers who do not conform to the dominant culture.\n\nContinually left absent from Chicano music history, many Chicana musical artists, such as Rita Vidaurri and María de Luz Flores Aceves, more commonly known as Lucha Reyes, from the 1940s and 50s, can be credited with many of strides that Chicana Feminist movements have made in the past century. For example, Vidaurri and Aceves were among the first mexicana women to wear charro pants while performing rancheras.\n\nBy challenging their own conflicting backgrounds and ideologies, Chicana musicians have continually broken the gender norms of their culture, and therefore created a space for conversation and change in the Latino communities.\n\nThere are many important figures in Chicana music history, each one giving a new social identity to Chicanas through their music. An important example of a Chicana musician is Rosita Fernández, an artist from San Antonio, Texas. Popular in the mid 20th century, she was called \"San Antonio's First Lady of Song\" by Lady Bird Johnson, the Tejano singer is a symbol of Chicana feminism for many Mexican Americans still today. She was described as \"larger than life\", repeatedly performing in china poblana dresses, throughout her career, which last more than 60 years. However, she never received a great deal of fame outside of the San Antonio, despite her long reign as one of the most active Mexican American woman public performers of the 20th century.\n\nOther Chicana musicians and musical groups:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35173804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35173804", "title": "Chinese au pairs in the United States", "text": "Chinese au pairs in the United States\n\nChinese au pairs in the United States have been employed since 2007. In 2002, Chinese au pair applicants were first sent to Europe. In 2006, plans to bring a Chinese au pair to the United States were set into motion and in March 2007, Hongbin Yu of Harbin was the first Chinese au pair to arrive in the United States.\n\nThe au pair concept was introduced in China in 2001 by the HHS Center (the first au pair agency in China), and was transcribed \"Hu Hui Sheng\" in Pinyin (互惠生). In 2007, negotiations between agencies in China and the United States were successful and the American Cultural Exchange (Go Au Pair) became the first organization to bring a Chinese au pair to the United States.\n\nChinese au pairs are desirable by American host families. \"The New York Times\" and Spiegel Online International attribute this trend to the growing number of Chinese baby adoptions and the desire of parents to teach their children Mandarin, to capitalize on China’s economic influence.\n\nThe inbound au pair program in China began; as of 2012, there were over 1,000 au pair applicants from around the world and over 100 Chinese families interested in participating in the program.\n\nThe au pair program in China is supported by the Department of Education and the Administration of Exit and Entry of the Beijing Public Security Bureau.\n\n"}
{"id": "1204525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1204525", "title": "Cultural diplomacy", "text": "Cultural diplomacy\n\nCultural diplomacy a type of public diplomacy and soft power that includes the \"exchange of ideas, information, art, language and other aspects of culture among nations and their peoples in order to foster mutual understanding\". The purpose of cultural diplomacy is for the people of a foreign nation to develop an understanding of the nation's ideals and institutions in an effort to build broad support for economic and political goals. In essence \"cultural diplomacy reveals the soul of a nation\", which in turn creates influence. Though often overlooked, cultural diplomacy can and does play an important role in achieving national security efforts.\n\nCulture is a set of values and practices that create meaning for society. This includes both high culture (literature, art, and education, which appeals to elites) and popular culture (appeals to the masses). This is what governments seek to show foreign audiences when engaging in cultural diplomacy. It is a type of soft power, which is the \"ability to get what you want through attraction rather than coercion or payments. It arises from a country's culture, political ideals and policies.\" This indicates that the value of culture is its ability to attract foreigners to a nation. Cultural diplomacy is also a component of public diplomacy. Public diplomacy is enhanced by a larger society and culture, but simultaneously public diplomacy helps to \"amplify and advertise that society and culture to the world at large\". It could be argued that the information component of public diplomacy can only be fully effective where there is already a relationship that gives credibility to the information being relayed. This comes from knowledge of the other's culture.\" Cultural diplomacy has been called the \"linchpin of public diplomacy\" because cultural activities have the possibility to demonstrate the best of a nation. In this way, cultural diplomacy and public diplomacy are intimately linked.\n\nRichard T. Arndt, a former State Department cultural diplomacy practitioner, said \"Cultural relations grow naturally and organically, without government intervention – the transactions of trade and tourism, student flows, communications, book circulation, migration, media access, inter-marriage – millions of daily cross-cultural encounters. If that is correct, cultural diplomacy can only be said to take place when formal diplomats, serving national governments, try to shape and channel this natural flow to advance national interests.\" It is important to note that, while cultural diplomacy is, as indicated above, a government activity, the private sector has a very real role to play because the government does not create culture, therefore, it can only attempt to make a culture known and define the impact this organic growth will have on national policies. Cultural diplomacy attempts to manage the international environment by utilizing these sources and achievements and making them known abroad. An important aspect of this is listening- cultural diplomacy is meant to be a two-way exchange. This exchange is then intended to foster a mutual understanding and thereby win influence within the target nation. Cultural diplomacy derives its credibility not from being close to government institutions, but from its proximity to cultural authorities. It is seen as a silent weapon in gaining control over another nation with the use of non-violent methods to perpetrate a relationship of mutual understanding and support among the countries involved.\n\nUltimately, the goal of cultural diplomacy is to influence a foreign audience and use that influence, which is built up over the long term, as a sort of good will reserve to win support for policies. It seeks to harness the elements of culture to induce foreigners to:\n\nIn turn, cultural diplomacy can help a nation better understand the foreign nation it is engaged with and it fosters mutual understanding. Cultural diplomacy is a way of conducting international relations without expecting anything in return in the way that traditional diplomacy typically expects. Cultural exchange programs work as a medium to relay a favourable impression of the foreign country in order to gain outsiders' understanding and approval in their cultural practices and naturalize their social norms among other cultures.\n\nGenerally, cultural diplomacy is more focused on the longer term and less on specific policy matters. The intent is to build up influence over the long term for when it is needed by engaging people directly. This influence has implications ranging from national security to increasing tourism and commercial opportunities. It allows the government to create a \"foundation of trust\" and a mutual understanding that is neutral and built on people-to-people contact. Another unique and important element of cultural diplomacy is its ability to reach youth, non-elites and other audiences outside of the traditional embassy circuit. In short, cultural diplomacy plants the seeds of ideals, ideas, political arguments, spiritual perceptions and a general view point of the world that may or may not flourish in a foreign nation. Therefore, ideologies spread by cultural diplomacy about the values that American people believe in enables those that seek a better life to look towards the Western world where happiness and freedom are portrayed as desirable and achievable goals.\n\nFirst and foremost, cultural diplomacy is a demonstration of national power because it demonstrates to foreign audiences every aspect of culture, including wealth, scientific and technological advances, competitiveness in everything from sports and industry to military power, and a nation's overall confidence. The perception of power obviously has important implications for a nation's ability to ensure its security. Furthermore, because cultural diplomacy includes political and ideological arguments, and uses the language of persuasion and advocacy, it can be used as an instrument of political warfare and be useful in achieving traditional goals of war. A Chinese activist was quoted as saying \"We've seen a lot of Hollywood movies – they feature weddings, funerals and going to court. So now we think it's only natural to go to court a few times in your life.\" This is an example of a cultural export – Hollywood movies – possibly having a subtle effect on the legal system in China, which could ultimately benefit the United States or any other nation which wishes to see a more democratic China. This is the way in which ideas and perceptions can ultimately affect the ability of a nation to achieve its national security goals.\n\nIn terms of policy that supports national security goals, the information revolution has created an increasingly connected world in which public perceptions of values and motivations can create an enabling or disabling environment in the quest for international support of policies. The struggle to affect important international developments is increasingly about winning the information struggle to define the interpretation of states' actions. If an action is not interpreted abroad as the nation meant to it be, then the action itself can become meaningless. Cultural diplomacy can create an environment in which a nation is received as basically good, which in turn can help frame its actions in a positive light.\n\nParticipants in cultural diplomacy often have insights into foreign attitudes that official embassy employees do not. This can be used to better understand a foreign nation's intentions and capabilities. It can also be used to counter hostile propaganda and the collection of open source intelligence.\n\nOverall, cultural diplomacy has the potential to demonstrate national power, create an environment conducive to support, and assist in the collection and interpretation of information. This, in turn, aids in the interpretation of intelligence, enhances a nation's prestige and aids in garnering support for policies abroad. All of these factors affect a nation's security, thus, cultural diplomacy has an effect on, and a role to play, in regards to national security.\n\nCultural diplomacy can and does utilize every aspect of a nation's culture. This includes:\n\n\nAll of these tools seek to bring understanding of a nation's culture to foreign audiences. They work best when they are proven to be relevant to the target audience, which requires an understanding of the audience. The tools can be utilized by working through NGOs, diasporas and political parties abroad, which may help with the challenge of relevance and understanding. These tools are generally not created by a government, but produced by the culture and then the government facilitates their expression abroad to a foreign audience, with the purpose of gaining influence.\n\nIn the 1950s the Soviet Union had a reputation that was associated with peace, international class solidarity and progress due to its sponsorship of local revolutionary movements for liberation. The United States was known for its involvement in the Korean War and for preserving the status quo. In an effort to change this perception, the United States Information Agency (USIA) sponsored a photographic exhibition titled The Family of Man. The display originally showed in the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, but then USIA helped the display to be seen in 91 locations in 39 countries. The 503 photographs by 237 professional and amateur photographers were curated and put together by Edward Steichen. The images showed glimpses of everyday human life in its various stages; courtship, birth, parenting, work, self-expression, etc., including images from the Great Depression. The images were multi-cultured and only a few were overtly political serving to show the eclecticism and diversity of American culture, which is America's soft power foundation. The display was extremely popular and attracted large numbers of crowds, in short America \"showed the world, the world and got credit for it\".\n\nA similar effort was carried out by the United States Department of State in February 2002 entitled Images from Ground Zero. The display included 27 images, detailing the September 11 attacks by Joel Meyerowitz that circulated, with the backing of embassies and consulates, to 60 nations. The display was intended to shape and maintain the public memory of the attack and its aftermath. The display sought to show the human side of the tragedy, and not just the destruction of buildings. The display was also intended to show a story of recovery and resolution through documenting not only the grief and pain, but also the recovery efforts. In many countries where the display was run, it was personalized for the population. For example, relatives of those who died in the Towers were often invited to the event openings. In this way, the US was able to put their own spin on the tragedy and keep the world from forgetting.\n\nExhibitions were often used during the Cold War to demonstrate culture and progress by both the United States and the Soviet Union. In 1959, the American National Exhibition was held on Sokolniki Park in Moscow. The exhibition was opened by Vice President Richard Nixon and attended by Walt Disney, Buckminster Fuller, William Randolph Hearst, and senior executives from Pepsi, Kodak and Macy's. It featured American consumer goods, cars, boats, RCA color TVs, food, clothing, etc., and samples of American products such as Pepsi. There was a typical American kitchen set up inside in which spectators could watch a Bird's Eye frozen meal be prepared. An IBM RAMAC computer was programmed to answer 3,500 questions about America in Russian. The most popular question was \"what is the meaning of the American Dream?\" The Soviets tried to limit the audience by only giving tickets to party members and setting up their own rival exhibition. But ultimately people came, and the souvenir pins that were given out turned up in every corner of the country. The Soviets banned printed material, but the Americans gave it out anyway. The most popular items were the Bible and a Sears catalogue. The guides for the exhibition were American graduate students, including African Americans and women, who spoke Russian. This gave Russians the ability to speak to real Americans and ask difficult questions. The ambassador to Moscow, Llewellyn Thompson, commented that \"the exhibition would be 'worth more to us than five new battleships.\" Exhibitions like this were used to display the best a culture had to offer and basically show off in a way that appeared non threatening and even friendly.\n\nThe usefulness of exchanges is based on two assumptions- some form of political intent lies behind the exchange and the result will have some sort of political effect. The idea is that exchanges will create a network of influential people abroad that will tie them to their host country and will appreciate their host country more due to their time spent there. Exchanges generally take place at a young age, giving the host country the opportunity to create an attachment and gain influence at a young impressionable age.\n\nAn example of the possible usefulness of exchanges is provided by the United States Fulbright Program. Some statistics include:\n\nSome Prominent Fulbright alumni include: \n\nThis is not to say that exchanges guarantee that participants will look favorably upon their host nation, but the hope is that they will.\n\nPopular entertainment is a statement about the society which it is portraying. These cultural displays can carry important messages regarding individualism, consumer choices and other values. For example, Soviet audiences watching American films learned that Americans owned their own cars, did not have to stand in long lines to purchase food, and did not live in communal apartments. These observations were not intended to be political messages when Hollywood created the films, but they none-the-less carried a message.\n\nCultural programming featuring Latin Jazz music was already recognized by the United States Department of State as an important diplomatic tool during the World War II period. In the early 1940s, Nelson Rockefeller at the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs collaborated with Edmund A. Chester of the CBS radio broadcasting network in order to showcase leading musicians from both North and South America for audiences on both continents. Musical artists such as Alfredo Antonini, Terig Tucci, John Serry Sr., Miguel Sandoval, Juan Arvizu, Elsa Miranda, Eva Garza and Nestor Mesta Chayres participated in this truly international effort to foster peace throughout the Americas through shared musical performances \"(See Viva América)\".\n\nIn the post World War II era, the United States Army also acknowledged the importance of cultural programming as a valuable diplomatic tool amidst the ruins in Europe. In 1952 the U.S. Seventh Army enlisted the expertise of the young conductor Samuel Adler to establish the Seventh Army Symphony Orchestra in Stuttgart, Germany in order to demonstrate the shared cultural heritage of America and Europe. Performances of classical music by the orchestra continued throughout Europe until 1962. They showcased the talents of several noted conductors and musicians including: James Dixon, John Ferritto, Henry Lewis and Kenneth Schermerhorn. \n\nJazz played a critical role during the Cold War in establishing political ties. Producer Willis Conover explained jazz as an embodiment of an anti-ideology or an alternative way of living by introducing a new style of music with a lose structure and improvisation. In November 1955, the New York Times declared Louis Armstrong as America's most effective ambassador. What American diplomats could not do, Armstrong and his jazz music did. This article claimed that musicians, such as Armstrong, created a universal language to communicate.\n\nJazz originally surfaced in the Soviet Union during the 1920s and 1930s, but quickly faded. After World War II, jazz began to reemerge, but was condemned by Andrei Zhdanov. He considered jazz as corrupt and capitalistic due to the fact that it grew out of the United States during a time of political unrest. During the 1950s to 1960s, the Civil Rights movement, the decolonization of Africa and Asia, and the cultural and political rivalry of the United States and the Soviet Union created the need for cultural exchange. As a result, the United States government sent a jazz band composed of African American musicians abroad to tour places, including the Middle East and Africa, with the goal of the black musicians establishing connections with their African heritage.\n\nDuke Ellington, B.B. King, and Dizzy Gillespie all made trips to Africa that fostered connections with the African diaspora. In 1956, Dizzy Gillespie took on the role as a musical ambassador during his trip to the Middle East. He reported to President Eisenhower that he and his jazz band were effective against Red propaganda. With their interracial group, the jazz band was able to communicate across social and language barriers. During the band's trip to Athens, Greece, a performance transformed an audience of Anti-American students angered by the U.S. stance on Greece's right-wing dictatorship. By the end of the performance, Gillespie said the audience loved the music and threw him up on their shoulders after the performance. Diplomats emphasized the positive effects of musical diplomacy on the public.\n\nFrom 1955 to 1996, jazz producer Willis Conover hosted a music program called \"Music USA,\" for the Voice of America to assist in the emergence of jazz musicians as U.S. ambassadors. Conover explained: \"Jazz is a cross between total discipline and anarchy,\" for the way the musicians agree on tempo, key, and chord, but is distinguishable by its freedom of expression. As many as thirty million listeners worldwide, including millions in the Soviet Union, listened to the forty-five minutes of pop music and forty-five minutes of jazz with a newscast preceding each. Many critics have stated that Conover's program played a major role in the resurgence of jazz within the Soviet Union after the WWII. Many historians believe that this freedom aspect of jazz was representative of the American culture during this time.\n\nThe effect The Beatles had in Russia during the Cold War is an example of how music artists and their songs can become political. During this time, rock music channeled liberal \"Western\" ideas as a progressive and modernized art form. The Beatles symbolized the Western culture in a way that introduced new ideas that many believe assisted in the collapse of communism. As a result, the Beatles served as cultural diplomats through their popularity in the Soviet Union. Their music fostered youth communication and united people with a common spirit of popular culture.\n\nKolya Vasin, the founder of The Beatles museum and the Temple of Love, Peace and Music in St. Petersburg, commented that The Beatles \"were like an integrity test. When anyone said anything against them, we knew just what that person was worth. The authorities, our teachers, even our parents, became idiots to us.\" Despite the attempts of the Soviet Union's government to prevent the spread of the Beatles' popularity amongst their citizens, the band proved to be as popular in the USSR as it was in Britain. The government went as far as censoring the expression of all Western ideals, including the Beatles' bourgeois eccentricity, limiting the Soviet citizens' access to their music. Leslie Woodland, a documentary film maker, commented regarding what the Russian people were told about the West – \"Once people heard the Beatles' wonderful music, it just didn't fit. The authorities' prognosis didn't correspond to what they were listening to. The system was built on fear and lies, and in this way, the Beatles put an end to the fear, and exposed the lies.\" Pavel Palazchenko, Mikhail Gorbachev's conference interpreter, stated that the Beatles' music was a \"source of musical relief. They helped us create a world of our own, a world different from the dull and senseless ideological liturgy that increasingly reminded me of Stalinism...\". Like Gorbachev, many Russian youth agreed that the Beatles were a way to overcome the cultural isolation imposed by the Cold War and reinforced by their current political system.\n\nIn this way the music of The Beatles struck a political chord in the Soviet Union, even when the songs were not meant to be political. This contact went both ways. In 1968, when the song \"Back in the USSR\" was released, the album included a quote on the cover from Paul McCartney that read \"In releasing this record, made especially and exclusively for the USSR, I am extending a hand of peace and friendship to the Soviet people.\" During Paul McCartney's first trip to Russia in May 2003, nearly half a million fans greeted him. One Russian critic reported, \"The only person in Red Square who wasn't moved was Lenin\". This is an example of how products of culture can have an influence on the people they reach outside of their own country. It also shows how a private citizen can unintentionally become a cultural ambassador of sorts.\n\nThis Image and reputation has become an essential part of a \"state's strategic equity\". Place branding is \"the totality of the thoughts, feelings, associations and expectations that come to mind when a prospect or consumer is exposed to an entity's name, logo, products, services, events, or any design or symbol representing them.\" Place branding is required to make a country's image acceptable for investment, tourism, political power, etc. As Joseph Nye commented, \"in an information age, it is often the side which has the better side of the story that wins,\" this has resulted in a shift from old style diplomacy to encompass brand building and reputation management. In short, a country can use its culture to create a brand for itself which represents positive values and image.\n\nCultural diplomacy presents a number of unique challenges to any government attempting to carry out cultural diplomacy programs. Most ideas that a foreign population observes are not in the government's control. The government does not usually produce the books, music, films, TV programs, consumer products, etc. that reaches an audience. The most the government can do is try to work to create openings so the message can get through to mass audiences abroad. To be cultural relevant in the age of globalization, a government must exercise control over the flows of information and communication technologies, including trade. This is also difficult for governments that operate in a free market society where the government does not control the bulk of information flows. What the government can do is work to protect cultural exports where they flourish, by utilizing trade agreements or gaining access for foreign telecommunication networks.\n\nIt is also possible that foreign government officials may oppose or resist certain cultural exports while the people cheer them on. This can make support for official policies difficult to obtain. Cultural activities may be both a blessing and a curse to a nation. This may be the case if certain elements of a culture are offensive to the foreign audience. Certain cultural activities can also undermine national policy objectives. An example of this was the very public American dissent to the Iraq War while official government policy still supported it. Simultaneously the prevalence of the protest may have attracted some foreigners to the openness of America. The success of cultural diplomacy is also difficult to measure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "140896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140896", "title": "Eraillure", "text": "Eraillure\n\nIn lithic analysis (a subdivision of archaeology), an eraillure is a flake removed from a lithic flake's bulb of force, which is a lump left on the ventral surface of a flake after it is detached from a core of tool stone during the process of lithic reduction. The mechanics of eraillure formation are related to the propagation of a Hertzian cone of force through the cryptocrystalline matrix of the stone, but the particulars are poorly understood. Eraillures usually form only when a hammerstone is used for lithic reduction, and then only occasionally; use of 'soft' hammer fabricators made from bone, antler, and wood produce different flake characteristics but may also produce an eraillure in rare cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "663028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=663028", "title": "Essex man", "text": "Essex man\n\nEssex man and Mondeo man are stereotypical figures which were popularised in 1990s England. \"Essex man\" as a political figure is an example of a type of median voter and was used to help explain the electoral successes of Margaret Thatcher in the previous decade. The closely related \"Mondeo man\" was identified as the sort of voter the Labour Party needed to attract to win the election of 1997.\n\nAlthough the Labour Party is often considered the \"natural choice\" for the working-class, there has traditionally been a group within that class who have voted Conservative, who are distinct from the \"Essex man\" phenomenon. After the Second World War, there was considerable social change in South East England. \n\nWorking class English families were encouraged to leave the war damaged slums in inner London and move to newly built council owned properties in the suburbs and new towns in the home counties, including Basildon and Harlow in Essex. With the decline of manufacturing and skilled manual work in the 1980s, this group increasingly looked to middle-class professions for employment, or became self employed. \n\nTheir children enjoyed housing, education and employment opportunities far removed from the experiences of their parents.\n\nMargaret Thatcher's policies from 1979 to 1990 included: lower taxation, control of inflation and sale of council housing stock at subsidised prices. These policies (in particular, the right to buy scheme) are thought to have caused many people who had traditionally voted Labour in Essex to switch their allegiance in the elections of 1979, 1983 and 1987. \n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary (OED) lists the earliest reference to the Essex man as one from 7 October 1990 in \"The Sunday Telegraph\", although a reference to 26 January 1990 issue of \"Campaign\": \"Representative <nowiki>[</nowiki>David Amess<nowiki>]</nowiki> of new Essex man, working class, father electrician, right wing, keen hanger, noisily rambunctious, no subtlety\". Owing to the similarities between the politics of Thatcher's Britain and Ronald Reagan's America, the contemporary term \"Reagan Democrat\" is roughly analogous to \"Essex man\".\n\nThe concept of the \"Mondeo man\" was popularised by a phrase used by then Leader of the Labour Party, Tony Blair at the Labour Party Conference in October 1996. He recalled a Ford Sierra owner he had canvassed in the Midlands whilst campaigning for the general election of 1992. The man was a self employed electrician, who Blair met while the man was polishing his car at the weekend, and told Blair that he was an ex Labour voter who had bought his council house, owned his own car, and wondered what the Labour Party had to offer him given the party's history of raising taxes and mortgage rates: \n\nHis dad voted Labour, he said. He used to vote Labour, too. But he'd bought his own house now. He'd set up his own business. He was doing very nicely. \"So I've become a Tory\" he said. In that moment, he crystallised for me the basis of our failure... His instincts were to get on in life. And he thought our instincts were to stop him. But that was never our history or our purpose. \n\nThis is the story that is often credited with inspiring Blair's concept of New Labour, and the \"Mondeo man\" superseded the \"Essex man\", as the target of the campaign for the general election of 1997 for the Labour Party. (By 1993, the Sierra had been replaced by the Mondeo in the Ford model range, hence the misquote that gave birth to Mondeo Man). Blair subsequently won the general election of 1997, with a record landslide majority of 179 MPs.\n\nProstitutes gave the nickname \"Mondeo man\" to Steve Wright, who murdered five prostitutes during the end of 2006.\n\nEvery constituency in Essex voted 'leave' in the 2016 referendum to leave the European Union. In particular, the Essex districts Castle Point and Thurrock ranked among the top five districts for the percentage of Brexit votes.\n\n"}
{"id": "26655100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26655100", "title": "Ethnohistory (journal)", "text": "Ethnohistory (journal)\n\nEthnohistory is a peer-reviewed academic journal established in 1954 and published quarterly by Duke University Press on behalf of the American Society for Ethnohistory. It publishes articles and reviews in the fields of ethnohistory, historical anthropology and social and cultural history. Like its sponsoring professional society, \"Ethnohistory\" has represented a meeting ground between scholars in the disciplines of history and anthropology. Geography and other disciplines have been increasingly represented in its pages over time. Founded by scholars focused primarily on studies of Native North America, the journal has, over its history, progressively become more global in scope.\n"}
{"id": "3362896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3362896", "title": "Family resemblance", "text": "Family resemblance\n\nFamily resemblance () is a philosophical idea made popular by Ludwig Wittgenstein, with the best known exposition given in his posthumously published book \"Philosophical Investigations\" (1953). It argues that things which could be thought to be connected by one essential common feature may in fact be connected by a series of overlapping similarities, where no one feature is common to all of the things. Games, which Wittgenstein used as an example to explain the notion, have become the paradigmatic example of a group that is related by family resemblances. It has been suggested that Wittgenstein picked up the idea and the term from Nietzsche, who had been using it, as did many nineteenth century philologists, when discoursing about language families.\n\nThe first occurrence of the term \"Family resemblance\" is found in a note from 1930, commenting on Spengler's ideas. The notion itself features widely in Wittgenstein's later work, and in the \"Investigations\" it is introduced in response to questions about the general form of propositions and the essence of language – questions which were central to Wittgenstein throughout his philosophical career. This suggests that family resemblance was of prime importance for Wittgenstein's later philosophy; however, like many of his ideas, it is hard to find precise agreement within the secondary literature on either its place within Wittgenstein's later thought or on its wider philosophical significance.\n\nSince the publication of the \"Investigations,\" the notion of family resemblance has been discussed extensively not only in the philosophical literature, but also, for example, in works dealing with classification where the approach is described as \"polythetic\", distinguishing it from the traditional approach known now as \"monothetic\". Prototype theory is a recent development in cognitive science where this idea has also been explored. As the idea gains popularity, earlier instances of its occurrence are rediscovered e.g. in 18th century taxonomy, in the writings of Vygotsky or Tatarkiewicz.\n\nThe local context where the topic of family resemblances appears is Wittgenstein's critique of language. In \"Philosophical Investigations\" §65-71 the plurality of language uses is compared to the plurality of games. Next it is asserted that games have common features but no one feature is found in all of them. The whole argument has become famous under the heading 'language games'.\n\nThe larger context in which Wittgenstein's philosophy is seen to develop considers his uncompromising opposition to essences, mental entities and other forms of idealism which were accepted as a matter of fact in continental philosophy at the turn of the preceding century. In his view, the main cause for such errors is language and its uncritical use. In the received view, concepts, categories or classes are taken to rely on necessary features common to all items covered by them. Abstraction is the procedure which acknowledges this necessity and derives essences, but in the absence of a single common feature, it is bound to fail.\n\nThe term \"Family resemblance\" as feature of Wittgenstein's philosophy owes much to its translation in English. Wittgenstein, who wrote mostly in German, used the compound word 'Familienähnlichkeit', but as he lectured and conversed in English he used 'family likeness' (e.g. \"The Blue Book\", p. 17,33; \"The Brown Book\",§66). However, in the \"Philosophical Investigations\" the separate word 'Ähnlichkeit' has been translated as 'similarity' (§§11,130,185,444) and on two occasions (§§9,90) it is given as 'like'. The German family-word is common and it is found in Grimm's dictionary; a rare occurrence of 'family likeness' has been noted in a lecture by J. F. Moulton in 1877.\n\nGames are the main example considered by Wittgenstein in his text where he also mentions numbers and makes an analogy with a thread. He develops his argument further by insisting that in such cases there is not a clear cut boundary but there arises some ambiguity if this indefiniteness can be separated from the main point.\nIn §66 Wittgenstein invites us to \nThe section mentions card games, board games, ball games, games like ring-a-ring-a-roses and concludes:\n\nThe following §67 begins by stating:\n\nand extends the illustration\n\nThe problem of boundaries begins in §68\nThere are some simple models\nwhich can be derived from the text of §66-9. The most simple one, which fits Wittgenstein's exposition, seems to be the sorites type. It consists in a collection of items \"Item_1\", \"Item_2\", \"Item_3\"... described by features A, B, C, D, ...:\n\n\"Item_1\": A B C D <br>\n\"Item_2\": B C D E <br>\n\"Item_3\": C D E F <br>\n\"Item_4\": D E F G <br>\n\"Item_5\": E F G H <br>\n\nIn this example, which presents an indefinitely extended ordered family, resemblance is seen in shared features: each item shares three features with his neighbors e.g. \"Item_2\" is like \"Item_1\" in respects B, C, D, and like \"Item_3\" in respects C, D, E. Obviously what we call 'resemblance' involves different aspects in each particular case. It is also seen to be of a different 'degree' and here it fades with 'distance': \"Item_1\" and \"Item_5\" have nothing in common.\n\nAnother simple model is described as:\n\n\"Item_1\": A B C <br>\n\"Item_2\": B C D <br>\n\"Item_3\": A C D <br>\n\"Item_4\": A B D <br>\nIt exhibits the presence of a constant degree of resemblance and the\nabsence of a common feature without extending to infinity.\n\nWittgenstein rejects the disjunction of features or 'properties', i.e. the set {A,B,C,D..}, as something shared by all items. He admits that a 'sharing' is common to all but deems that it is only verbal:\n\nWittgenstein's suggestion (PI, §66) about the impossibility of formulating a definition of games portrays a predicament for disciplines, which entail games as their subject matter, because it denies the possibility to know what games are. One possible solution is to point out that Wittgenstein merely acts out his failing attempt to define the concept of game, because he wanted to demonstrate a mechanism of language. He wasn't particularly concerned about games, nor about the concept of 'game', but he was interested in the consequence of a definitory failure. The demonstration aims to show, that there is no reason to search for real definitions, which describe essential attributes of things, but rather nominal definitions, which describe the use of the term in a community. He connected this idea to language games – lingual expressions combined with action – as a more adequate alternative to explain the function of language. Confusing this is his choice to denominate the approach (PI, §7) as 'language games', further fueling the impression that he provides insights about the concept of game. Wittgenstein wasn't interested in games but in language, therefore his theories and examples are only superficially related to academic disciplines with games as subject matter.\n\n\"Philosophical Investigations\" is the primary text used in discussing family resemblances, even though the topic appears also in other works by Wittgenstein, notably \"The Brown Book\". Many contributions to the discussion are by people involved in philosophical research but concerned with more pragmatic questions such as taxonomy or information processing. Hans Sluga has observed that \"the notion of family resemblance... draws on two quite different sets of ideas, two different vocabularies, but treats them as if they were one and the same. The first is the vocabulary of kinship, of descent, of some sort of real and causal connection.. the second is that of similarity, resemblance, affinity and correspondence.\"\n\nThe main focus for criticism is the notion of similarity, which is instrumental for family resemblance. A similarity is always found for two arbitrarily selected objects, or a series of intermediaries can link them into a family. This problem has been known as underdeterminacy or open ended texture. Admittedly infinity is only potential but for any finite family some common element can be pointed out, especially if relational properties are taken into consideration. \nWittgenstein's insistence that boundaries do not really exist but can\nbe traced arbitrarily has been described as conventionalism and more generally the acceptance of his conception has been seen to present a refined nominalism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33861100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33861100", "title": "Fortress Wall of Seoul", "text": "Fortress Wall of Seoul\n\nThe Hanyangdoseong (Hangul: 한양도성; Hanja: 漢陽都城), or literally the Seoul City Wall is a series of walls made of stone, wood and other materials, built to protect the city of Seoul against invaders. The wall was first built in 1396 to defend and show the boundaries of the city, surrounding Hanyang (hangul: 한양; hanja: 漢陽; the old name for Seoul) in the Joseon Dynasty. At that time, it was called \"Hansung\" (hangul: 한성; hanja: 漢城). The wall stretches 18.6 km along the ridge of Seoul's four inner mountains, Baegaksan, Naksan, Namsan, and Inwangsan. At present, a 12-km section of the wall is designated as Historic Site No. 10 (1963) and is protected accordingly, along with the gates, water gates, and signal fire mounds. The northern, eastern, and southern sections of Mt.Nam (Namsan section) walls have undergone extensive restoration work, having sustained damage or been entirely destroyed during Japanese imperial rule (1910-1945).\nSeoul city is operating Hanyang Doseong stamp trail tour.\nHyehwa Moon-Naksan(124M) park-Heunginji Moon-Gwanghee Moon (Namso Moon)\n\nIn 1395, just five years after King Taejo founded the Joseon Dynasty, King Taejo established a government office [\"Doseongchukjoedogam\" (hangul: 도성축조도감; hanja: 都城築造都監)] to build a castle to defend Seoul. He ordered Jeong Do-jeon to search for and measure a site.\n\nOn January 1, 1396 (by the lunar calendar), Taejo of Joseon held the groundbreaking ceremony. 197,400 young men were placed under civil conscription over two years and completed building the castle 98 days after the war along the mountains Bugaksan, Naksan, Namsan, and Inwangsan. The wall contained eight gates, all of which were originally constructed between 1396 and 1398.\n\nThe original walls, built in the late 14th century were constructed of medium-sized round stones held together by mud. During King Sejong the Great’s reign in the mid 15th century, a large-scale refurbishment work was carried out on the wall, including the replacement of earthen wall sections with rectangular stone sections. A major restoration in 1704 by King Sukjong rebuilt sections of the wall using large, uniform stone slabs which mark the final and last unique characteristic of Hanyangdoseong.\n\nThe eastern section of Seoul was on lower ground than the other sections and was more susceptible to external attack. Thus, a lookout was added to the outside of the gate to reinforce its defense. A part of the walls in the section between Heunginjimun and Gwanghuimun was extended outside in a rectangular shape for such a purpose. Signal fire mounds, another component of the defense system, were first established in 1394 and remained in operation until 1894. Signals sent across the country from one mound to another, using smoke by day and fire at night, were received by the beacon at the top of Namsan and conveyed to the Royal Palace.\n\nFour main gates and four auxiliary gates were built around Seoul in the late 14th century. The four main gates were Heunginjimun (East Gate), Donuimun (West Gate), Sungnyemun (South Gate), and Sukjeongmun (North Gate). The four auxiliary gates were placed in areas between the four main gates, with Souimun (in the southwest), Changuimun (in the northwest), Hyehwamun (in the northeast), and Gwanghuimun (in the southeast). \n\nAt present, the following gates are either preserved in their original form or have undergone restoration work: Sungnyemun (South Gate) and Heunginjimun (East Gate) are designated as National Treasure No. 1 and Treasure No. 1, respectively.\n\nHanyangdoseong, completed in 30 years, was torn down in many parts due to city planning initiatives and the introduction of trams lines. However, significant sections of the wall remain. The best-preserved and well-known course is the Wall of Mt. Bukaksan, the 2.3-kilometer trail which cuts through Sukjeongmun to Changuimun. Previously off-limits to the public after having been designated as a Military Reserve area due to its close proximity to Cheongwadae, it opened to the public in 2006. With very few alterations or artificial structures surrounding the area over the years, the natural environment remains relatively intact.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32946619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32946619", "title": "French Politics, Culture &amp; Society", "text": "French Politics, Culture &amp; Society\n\nFrench Politics, Culture & Society is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by Berghahn Books on behalf of the Conference Group on French Politics & Society (sponsored jointly by the Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies at Harvard University and the Institute of French Studies at New York University). It covers modern and contemporary France from the perspectives of the social sciences, history, and cultural analysis. It also explores the relationship of France to the rest of the world, especially Europe, the United States, and the former French colonies. The editor-in-chief is Herrick Chapman.\n\n\"French Politics, Culture & Society\" is indexed and abstracted in:\n"}
{"id": "2895019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2895019", "title": "George van Driem", "text": "George van Driem\n\nGeorge (Sjors) van Driem (born 1957) is a Dutch linguist at the University of Berne, where he holds the chair of Historical Linguistics and directs the Linguistics Institute.\n\n\nGeorge van Driem has conducted field research in the Himalayas since 1983. He was commissioned by the Royal Government of Bhutan to codify a grammar of Dzongkha, the national language, design a phonological romanisation for the language known as Roman Dzongkha, and complete a survey of the language communities of the kingdom. He and native Dzongkha speaker Karma Tshering co-authored the authoritative textbook on Dzongkha. Van Driem wrote grammars of Limbu and Dumi, Kiranti languages spoken in eastern Nepal, and the Bumthang language of central Bhutan. He authored \"Languages of the Himalayas,\" a two-volume ethnolinguistic handbook of the greater Himalayan region. Under a programme named \"Languages and Genes of the Greater Himalayan Region\", conducted in collaboration with the Government of Nepal and the Royal Government of Bhutan, he collected DNA from many indigenous peoples of the Himalayas.\n\nIn Bern, George van Driem currently runs the research programme Strategische Zielsetzungen im Subkontinent (Strategic Objectives in the Subcontinent), which aims to analyse and describe endangered and poorly documented languages in South Asia. This programme of research is effectively a diversification of the Himalayan Languages Project, which he directed at Leiden University, where he held the chair of Descriptive Linguistics until 2009. He and his research team have documented over a dozen endangered languages of the greater Himalayan region, producing analytical grammars and lexica and recording morphologically analysed native texts. \n\nHis interdisciplinary research in collaboration with geneticists has led to advances in the reconstruction of Asian ethnolinguistic prehistory. Based on linguistic palaeontology, ethnolinguistic phylogeography, rice genetics and the Holocene distribution of faunal species, he identified the ancient Hmong-Mien and Austroasiatics as the first domesticators of Asian rice and published a theory on the homelands and prehistoric dispersal of the Hmong-Mien, Austroasiatic and Trans-Himalayan linguistic phyla. His historical linguistic work on linguistic phylogeny has replaced the unsupported Sino-Tibetan hypothesis with the older, more agnostic Tibeto-Burman phylogenetic model, for which he proposed the neutral geographical name Trans-Himalayan in 2004. He developed the Darwinian theory of language known as Symbiosism, and he is author of the philosophy of Symbiomism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36213974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36213974", "title": "God Nose", "text": "God Nose\n\nGod Nose is a 42-page American comic book produced in 1964 by Jack \"Jaxon\" Jackson and is considered one of the first underground comix. \"God Nose\" centers on philosophical discussions between God and the \"fools he rules.\"\n\n\"God Nose\" portrays God as an old man with a white beard and a crown, sitting on a golden throne in Heaven. He and Jesus discuss modern life, including such controversial topics as birth control and racism. At one point, Jesus returns to Earth to be a folk singer. (He also tries surfing.) God also visits Earth, at one point materializing into the bedroom of a couple as they are about to make love.\n\nJaxon's \"God Nose\" strip first appeared in the Florida college fanzine \"Charlatan\", where it was published from 1963 to at least 1966.\n\nIn 1964, Jaxon collected a number of the previous strips, and printed 1,000 copies on a Xerox machine at the Texas State Capital print shop after hours. The first printing of \"God Nose\" is 8-1/2\" x 11\" in size and 42 pages long.\n\nRip Off Press, an underground publisher co-founded by Jaxon, did a second printing in 1969, with a revised cover lacking a cover price and with a pink border with red central color. The third printing, also by Rip Off Press, has a blue border with green central color and a 50c price below the basketball hoop. Rip Off Press did a fourth and final printing in 1971; it has a red border with yellow central color and a 50c cover price. The second-fourth printings are standard comic book size, 44 pages long.\n\nThe entirety of \"God Nose\" was also reprinted as \"Underground Classics\" (Rip Off Press, 1985 series) #6 (1988).\n"}
{"id": "26966396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26966396", "title": "Greg Grandin", "text": "Greg Grandin\n\nGreg Grandin (born 1962) is a professor of history at New York University. He is author of a number of books, including \"Fordlândia: The Rise and Fall of Henry Ford's Forgotten Jungle City\", which was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for History, as well as for the National Book Award and a National Book Critics Circle Award. A more recent book, entitled, \"Who Is Rigoberta Menchú?\", focuses on the treatment of the Guatemalan Nobel Peace Prize winner. His latest book, \"The Empire of Necessity: Slavery, Freedom, and Deception in the New World,\" is a study of the factual basis for the novella \"Benito Cereno\" by Herman Melville.\n\n\"Fordlandia\" was named a best book of the year by \"The New York Times\", \"The New Yorker\"; NPR; \"The Boston Globe\"; \"San Francisco Chronicle\"; and the \"Chicago Tribune\".\n\nGrandin graduated from Brooklyn College with a B.A. (1992) and from Yale University with a Ph.D. (1999).\n\nHe won the Latin American Studies Association's Bryce Wood Award for the best book published in any discipline on Latin America for \"Blood of Guatemala: A History of Race and Nation\".\nEric Hobsbawm called \"The Last Colonial Massacre\" a \"remarkable and extremely well-written work\" that \n\nis about more than the dark history of Guatemala and the Cold War in Latin America. It is about how common people discover politics. It is about the roots of democracy and those of genocide. It is about the hopes and defeats of the twentieth-century left. I could not put this book down.\n\nGrandin has published widely on US foreign policy, the Cold War, and Latin American politics in \"The Nation\", \"The New York Times\", \"Harpers\", the \"London Review of Books\" and TomDispatch.com. He has appeared on the \"Charlie Rose Show\" and has interviewed Naomi Klein and Hugo Chávez. In the summer of 2009, he reported from Honduras on that country's coup, appearing a number of times on \"Democracy Now!\" and Grit TV and writing a series of reports in \"The Nation\" and elsewhere on the consequences of the overthrow of Honduran president Manuel Zelaya.\n\nGrandin worked as a consultant with the Historical Clarification Commission (Spanish: Comisión para el Esclarecimiento Histórico, or CEH), the Guatemalan truth commission, and has written a number of articles on its methodology, including its genocide ruling and its use of historical analysis.\nGrandin was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2010.\nGrandin was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in April 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33193153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33193153", "title": "Helena Hamerow", "text": "Helena Hamerow\n\nHelena Francisca Hamerow, FSA (born 18 September 1971) is Professor of Early Medieval Archaeology and former Head of the School of Archaeology at Oxford University. She is the author of numerous books and academic articles on archaeology and early medieval history.\n\nHamerow obtained a BA from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and a DPhil from Oxford. She was a research fellow at Somerville College and a lecturer at Durham University. She is Professor of Early Medieval Archaeology and former Head of the School of Archaeology at Oxford University. She is a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London.\n\nIn 2011, Hamerow was one of forty leading archaeologists who wrote to the Justice Secretary, Kenneth Clarke asking for more time to study ancient human remains found in archaeological excavations.\n\nHamerow has appeared on \"Digging for Britain\", \"King Alfred and the Anglo Saxons\" and 2 episodes of \"Time Team.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43311871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43311871", "title": "Hercules and Antaeus", "text": "Hercules and Antaeus\n\nHercules and Antaeus is an early 16th-century bronze sculpture by Pier Jacopo di Antonio Alari-Bonacolsi. The Gonzaga family court sculptor based this group on a classical marble of Hercules and Antaeus which is now in the Pitti Palace in Florence. The statue was given to the Victoria and Albert Museum by Dr. W. L. Hildburgh, F. S. A., in 1956.\n"}
{"id": "31114655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31114655", "title": "Holidays of Future Passed", "text": "Holidays of Future Passed\n\n\"Holidays of Future Passed\" is the ninth episode of the twenty-third season of the American animated sitcom \"The Simpsons\". It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on December 11, 2011. Most of the episode is set thirty years into the future, when Bart and Lisa take their children with them to Homer and Marge's house over Christmas, while a pregnant Maggie goes into labor. Bart has divorced his wife Jenda and is struggling to become a better father for his two boys, while Lisa has trouble connecting with her rebellious teenage daughter Zia. \"The Simpsons\" creator Matt Groening made a minor uncredited cameo appearance as a sports commentator shouting \"goal!\" during a soccer game.\n\nOriginally written as a potential series finale, the episode has received highly positive reception from television critics who often cited it as the best episode of the season. It has been particularly praised for its humor and for its emotional scenes, such as one where Bart and Lisa sit in their old treehouse and talk about how difficult parenting is. During the original broadcast, \"Holidays of Future Passed\" was watched by about 6.43 million people. Since then, it has garnered attention in the media for a segment taking place thirty years in the future in which it is implied that the city of Dearborn, Michigan is \"still under sharia law\". Commentators have had mixed opinions on what the segment is mocking, whether it is the increasing Islamic influence in the US, specifically in Dearborn, or rather those who are thinking that Dearborn is under sharia law in December 2011, the time that the episode aired.\n\nAfter stuffing themselves with turkey on Thanksgiving, it is time to take the annual Christmas card family photo, and when Bart and Lisa complain about it, Marge notes that they will grow to appreciate the photos when they become older and have children of their own. Lisa questions why Marge would assume they will even have children in the first place while Bart confidently claims that he won't, desiring for the Simpson family's legacy of dysfunction to cease. The episode jumps thirty years into the future via a series of Simpsons Christmas cards. The photos finally settle on a future where Bart is a deadbeat, divorced father with two sons whom he does not see often; Lisa is a successful businesswoman who is married to Milhouse and has a rebellious daughter named Zia; and Maggie is the lead singer of a famous band and in the late stages of pregnancy. In his apartment at the former Springfield Elementary, Bart is visited by his sons, who inform him that their mother Jenda teleported them to his place because she wants him to act like a proper father by having him spend time with them. However, he plans on dropping them off at his parents' house instead. Meanwhile, Lisa fears that Zia is spending too much of her time going into the \"Ultranet\", a digital world that people enter with their consciousness by plugging themselves into a laptop. Milhouse suggests to Lisa that she spend time with Zia in order for them to have a better connection, so Lisa decides to take Zia to her parents' house, too. Meanwhile, Maggie flies home from London to Springfield to also celebrate Christmas with her parents.\n\nWhen Bart and Lisa arrive at their parents' home, they stay there with their children. Unfortunately for Lisa, she only gets unhelpful advice from Marge on how to be a better mother and Zia continues to go into the Ultranet. Meanwhile, Bart is heartbroken to find out that Jenda has remarried while he has not found anyone new. Feeling depressed, he tells Homer to take his grandsons out. The boys become angry with their father for not spending time with them, but the two have a great time with their grandfather. Bart and Lisa then encounter each other in their old treehouse, where they become slightly drunk and talk about how difficult parenting is. After exchanging inspirational advice, they realize that they need to try harder to connect with their children. Meanwhile, upon arriving in Springfield, Maggie starts experiencing contractions and Kearney, now a taxi driver, drives her to the hospital.\n\nHomer takes Bart's sons to a cryonics facility where Grampa has been frozen alive to prevent a disease from killing him. Although a cure has now been discovered, he is kept frozen by Homer because it is cheaper than paying for a nursing home and because Grampa has constantly been rude to him. Homer says to the boys that they should give their father another chance, since he knows Bart loves them. At that point, Bart arrives and apologizes to his sons, admitting how much he treasures them. Touched, the two boys forgive him for not having included them in his life much, while an inspired Homer decides to unfreeze Grampa and forgive him as well. Meanwhile, Lisa goes into the Ultranet to find Zia and discovers a door leading into Zia's private world. Entering it, Lisa is overjoyed to find that Zia has hung a poster of her next to a series of posters depicting historical women who have made a difference in the world. When Zia arrives, Lisa thanks her for looking up to her and the two reconcile at last, and secretly hides her life as a party poser. With the conflicts resolved, Bart and Lisa gather their children in preparation for a new Christmas family photo. Marge arrives with Maggie, who has given birth to a baby girl. The Simpsons gather into a group just as the family pets (who have evolved greatly over the past thirty years) take the new photo.\n\nThe episode, titled \"Holidays of Future Passed\", was written by J. Stewart Burns and directed by Rob Oliver. It was first announced to the press at the Comic-Con convention in San Diego, California on July 23, 2011, during a panel with the producers of \"The Simpsons\". \"Holidays of Future Passed\" is the eleventh episode of the series with a Christmas theme, and the fourth episode set in the future (the others being \"Lisa's Wedding\" from 1995, \"Bart to the Future\" from 2000, and \"Future-Drama\" from 2005). Originally there was a joke in the episode about a meltdown occurring at the Springfield Nuclear Power Plant in the future; however, it was cut following the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami that resulted in several nuclear accidents in Japan.\n\n\"The Simpsons\" creator Matt Groening made a minor cameo in the episode, though his appearance is not mentioned in the closing credits. In the episode, a robot examines the health of Maggie's fetus. Maggie's band is present, and one of the band members presses a button on the robot's \"face\", which is a screen showing its facial expressions, and a soccer game comes on instead. A sports commentator, voiced by Groening, gives a long \"goal!\" shout that is heard over the game. According to \"The Simpsons\" music editor Chris Ledesma, as the episode was being recorded, \"there were only sounds of crowd cheering during that shot and Matt said we needed to spice it up somehow.\" After going through some different ideas, the staff settled on a commentator shouting \"goal!\". The staff members wanted Groening to provide the voice and he finished the recording in two takes.\n\nIn a 2013 interview with former show writer Conan O'Brien, Jean stated that this episode was intended to serve as a series finale in the case that cast negotiations earlier in the year forced the show to end.\n\n\"Holidays of Future Passed\" originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on December 11, 2011. The episode was watched by approximately 6.43 million people during this broadcast, and in the demographic for adults aged 18–49, it received a 3.0 Nielsen rating and a seven percent share. This was a decrease from the previous episode, \"The Ten-Per-Cent Solution\", which received a 4.0 rating. However, that episode was preceded by a popular National Football League game that helped increase its rating. \"Holidays of Future Passed\" became the most-watched broadcast in Fox's Animation Domination lineup for the night in terms of total viewers, finishing higher than new episodes of the three series \"Family Guy\" (6.10 million), \"The Cleveland Show\" (5.07 million), and \"American Dad!\" (5.00 million). It also became the second highest-rated broadcast among adults aged 18–49, being exceeded only by the \"Family Guy\" episode which received a 3.1 rating. For the week of the episode placed twentieth in the ratings among all prime-time network broadcasts in the 18–49 demographic.\n\nSince airing, \"Holidays of Future Passed\" has received highly positive reviews from television critics, particularly for its humor and emotional scenes. In his list of \"The 50 Best TV Episodes of 2011\", BuddyTV's John Kubicek placed the episode at number forty-nine, writing that the \"various glimpses of how all the other characters have changed during the time jump was a cavalcade of comedy moments.\" Rex Huffman of \"The Times-Reporter\" cited it as \"an amusing episode\", and Ology's Josh Harrison described it as \"legitimately funny\". Harrison noted that \"seeing so many futuristic versions of familiar characters put an interesting spin on the holiday season.\" He also commented: \"The whole episode hinges on a surprisingly heartfelt scene that sees Bart and Lisa—both a bit sloshed—meeting up in the treehouse to discuss the challenges of parenting.\" Similarly, Hayden Childs of \"The A.V. Club\" wrote that \"Holidays of Future Passed\" found \"a sweet spot that combined a barrage of non-stop jokes with a tenderness often lacking in latter-day \"Simpsons\" episodes. There is even a conversation between the adult Bart and Lisa that rings surprisingly true for adult siblings wrestling with their shared familial past.\"\n\nWriting for HitFix, Alan Sepinwall cited \"Holidays of Future Passed\" as the best future-set episode of \"The Simpsons\" since the first one, \"Lisa's Wedding\". He noted that it was \"the emotional side of things\" that made the episode successful, such as the dissatisfaction Bart and Lisa feel because of their disconnection with the children, and also Homer's transformation into a \"very wise, sweet guy after somehow surviving into old age.\" Sepinwall particularly praised the scene at the cryonics facility where Homer encourages the children to give Bart another chance as \"really sweet\", and he described the idea of a frozen Grampa as \"a clever variation on the very familiar joke of how Homer and the family neglect [Grampa] because he's such a pain in the ass.\" Sepinwall also commended the episode for its jokes about the future, highlighting the scenes revolving around air travel as well as the scenes showing Krusty as \"the Andy Rooney of 2041\" and Ralph Wiggum as \"an endless series of stupid clones who keep killing one another.\" In February 2012, \"Holidays of Future Passed\" was listed by Matt Zoller Seitz of \"New York\" magazine as one of \"Nine Latter-Day \"Simpsons\" Episodes That Match Up to the Early Classics\". He noted that the \"reconciliations between Bart and Lisa and their kids are moving.\"\n\nAt the 64th Primetime Emmy Awards in 2012, \"Holidays of Future Passed\" was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Animated Program (for Programming Less Than One Hour).\n\nA segment of \"Holidays of Future Passed\" was inspired by a controversy over the growing Islamic influence in the city of Dearborn, Michigan, which has \"a significant Muslim community\". The biggest mosque in the United States is also located there. During the segment in question, set in Milhouse and Lisa's future home, Milhouse tells Lisa that he has started to feel the symptoms of his seasonal allergies now that Christmas has arrived. He is apparently allergic to Christmas-related things such as holly, mistletoe, and the red part of candy cane. Lisa advises Milhouse to go and stay in Michigan over the holidays, where Christmas is not celebrated because it is \"still under sharia law.\" Milhouse agrees to do this, but complains that they always make him wear a veil there, pointing to a photo on the wall in which he is standing outside of the University of Michigan–Dearborn dressed in a burqa.\n\nIn a news report about this segment that aired on WJBK, Gallagher noted that it \"poked fun at the untrue and unfounded notion that somehow Muslim sharia law prevails in Dearborn.\" Dawud Walid, head of the Michigan branch of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, commented in the report that \"The Simpsons\" \"is a very prolific show. Now [it] is addressing this anti-sharia fear mongering issue, and perhaps it may gain some currency and ... more people will make fun of it.\" The segment was met with mixed reception from students at University of Michigan–Dearborn. A number of them were interviewed by Gallagher in his report. One student said: \"It's pretty cool showing how ridiculous the hate is. I think it's pretty funny,\" while another noted: \"I don't think it's a good thing [to mock anti-Islamic bigotry] because we can change it by talking, not making fun.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "41684665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41684665", "title": "Holy Trinity Church, Dalston", "text": "Holy Trinity Church, Dalston\n\nHoly Trinity Church, Dalston, also known as the Clowns’ Church is a Church of England parish church in Beechwood Road in the borough of Hackney, north London. It is in the parish of Holy Trinity with St Philip Dalston and All Saints Church, Haggerston (St Philip having been bombed during the war and demolished some time between 1947 and 1952).\n\nFrom 1998 to 2014, the vicar was Rose Hudson-Wilkin, who also holds the roles of Speaker’s chaplain to the House of Commons, priest vicar at Westminster Abbey and chaplain to the Queen.\n\nHoly Trinity was designed by Ewan Christian – a noted church builder and restorer and architect of the National Portrait Gallery. The main phase of construction took place in 1878-79 and was funded from the proceeds of the sale of St Martin Outwich in the City of London.\n\nIt is a Grade II-listed building; its 1975 designation noted both the reputation of its architect and its impressive High Victorian style with continental influences.\n\nIt is constructed in red brick in the Early English style and has a slate roof. Inside Holy Trinity is a screen brought from St Philip, Dalston after that church was damaged by bombing in December 1940. The post-war east window of the church has glass by A. F. Erridge.\n\nHoly Trinity is known as the Clowns’ Church for the annual Clowns International service held on the first Sunday in February in honour of Joseph Grimaldi and deceased clowns. The service was established in 1946/7 at St James’s Episcopal Chapel in Pentonville Road, where Grimaldi is buried (now Joseph Grimaldi Park). It moved to Holy Trinity in 1959 after St James's was deconsecrated. The service is attended by clowns in full costume and is usually followed by a performance for members of the public.\n\nThe vestry of Holy Trinity Church is home to the Clowns Gallery-Museum, which includes the Clown Egg Register.\n\n"}
{"id": "568980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=568980", "title": "Lady of Elche", "text": "Lady of Elche\n\nThe Lady of Elche or Lady of Elx (in Spanish, Dama de Elche) is a limestone bust that was discovered in 1897 at \"L'Alcúdia,\" an archaeological site on a private estate two kilometers south of Elche, Spain. It is currently exhibited in the National Archaeological Museum of Spain in Madrid.\n\nIt is generally known as an Iberian artifact from the 4th century BC, although the artisanship suggests strong Hellenistic influences. According to \"The Encyclopedia of Religion\", the \"Lady of Elche\" is believed to have a direct association with Tanit, the goddess of Carthage, who was worshiped by the Punic-Iberians. \n\nThe originally polychromed bust is thought to represent a woman wearing an elaborate headdress and large wheel-like coils (known as \"rodetes\") on each side of the face. The opening in the rear of the sculpture indicates it may have been used as a funerary urn.\nOther artifacts associated with Iberian culture are the \"Lady of Guardamar\" −which has similar wheel-like rodetes and necklaces− or the \"Lady of Baza\". While the \"Lady of Elche\" is a bust, there are indications that it was part of a seated statue, similar to the \"Lady of Baza\" (with which it shares similar necklance pendants) or a standing one like the \"Gran Dama Oferente\" from Cerro de los Santos (Montealegre del Castillo, Albacete).\n\nThese three figures and the \"Bicha of Balazote\" are exhibited in the same Iberian art hall in the National Archaeological Museum of Spain in Madrid.\n\nThe sculpture was found on 4 August 1897, by a young worker, Manuel Campello Esclapez. The popular version of the story differs from the official report by Pere Ibarra (the local keeper of the records) which stated that Antonio Maciá found the bust. Ibarra's version of the discovery story, was that farm workers clearing the southeast slope of La Alcudia for agricultural purposes, discovered the sculpture. The bust was quickly nicknamed \"Reina Mora\" or \"Moorish Queen\" by locals.\n\nAn archaeological site is now located where the bust of Elche was discovered. Evidence has been found there of an Iberian-Punic settlement, a Roman sewer, walls and Roman houses, and mosaics. One mosaic shows an effigy of Saint Abdon, belonging to a Christian basilica of the 5th century. The latter archaeological evidence is supported by the codices of the councils of Toledo where it discusses an audience with bishops from \"Illici\" (Elche).\n\nDr. Campello, owner of the farm, was married to Asunción Ibarra, daughter of Aureliano Ibarra Manzoni, a humanist from the 19th century whose hobby was archeology. Ibarra Manzoni had found a number of objects and Iberian vestiges on his own farmland and in other places in the municipality of Elche. He built up a valuable collection, which he bequeathed to his daughter Asunción. He provided instructions that she make the necessary arrangements for the collection to be offered for sale to the Real Academia de la Historia after her death, to be located finally at the National Archaeological Museum. The will specified that the collection be sold in its entirety. The family placed the Lady on their balcony so that it could be viewed by all of the residents of Elche.\n\nDon Pedro Ibarra invited French archaeologist Pierre Paris to his home to see the \"Mystery Play of Elche\". When the archaeologist saw the Iberian bust, he recognized its worth and notified the Louvre in Paris. The Louvre offered a large sum of money for the time: 4000 francs, and purchased the sculpture within a few weeks of its discovery. Despite opposition from Doña Asuncion, the Iberian bust was sold. On 30 August 1897, the sculpture was sent to the Louvre.\n\nFor 40 years the \"Dama de Elche\" was exhibited at the Louvre. After the start of World War II in 1939, as a precaution, the sculpture was transferred for safe-keeping to the castle of Montauban near Toulouse. The Vichy government negotiated the statue's return to Spain with Franco's government. In 1941 it was returned through an exchange of works (which also included the \"Immaculate Conception of the Venerable Ones\" (or \"Immaculate Conception of Soult\") by Murillo, the twin sphinxes of El Salobral and several pieces of the Treasure of Guarrazar, and the Iberian sculptures of Osuna. In return Spain transferred to France a portrait of Mariana of Austria by Velázquez (the Prado kept another existing version of the portrait, which was considered of superior quality) and a \"Portrait of Antonio de Covarrubias\" by El Greco. Since 1941, the \"Lady of Elche\" has been officially owned by the Museo del Prado (catalog number E433).\n\nThe discovery of the \"Lady of Elche\" initiated a popular interest in pre-Roman Iberian culture. She appeared on a 1948 Spanish one-peseta banknote and was mentioned in William Gaddis's \"The Recognitions\" (1955).\n\nIn 1971 it was transferred from El Prado to the National Archaeological Museum of Spain, where it is currently exhibited.\n\nIn 1965 the \"Dama de Elche\" returned briefly to Elche, on the occasion of the seventh centenary of \"Mystery Play of Elche\".\n\nOn 19 January 2006, the Minister of Culture of Spain, Carmen Calvo, issued a decision to temporarily lease the Lady to its hometown. From 18 May 2006, to 1 November 2006. the \"Dama de Elche\" presided over the inauguration of the Museum of Archaeology and History of Elche (in the Palace of Altamira) and the exhibition From Ilici to Elx, 2500 Years of History that took place in different locations in the city. It was represented by an exact replica afterwards.\n\nThe bust was first accused of being a forgery in 1906, in an essay called 'Las esculturas del Cerro de los Santos, cuestion de autenticidad' by archeologist José Ramón Mélida.\n\nIn 1995, John F. Moffitt, an art historian specializing in painting, published \"Art Forgery: The Case of the Lady of Elche\", University Press of Florida, in which he contended that the statue was a forgery with similarities to symbolist art of the Belle Époque. He speculated that the identity of the forger and commissioner was \"a physician and resident surgeon in the town of Elche\" who was \"well informed about the current state of Iberian studies\" and owned \"the fertile archaeological site of La Alcúdia.\"\n\nExperts in Spanish archaeology have rejected Moffitt's theory and accept the \"Lady of Elche\" as a genuine ancient Iberian work. Antonio Uriarte of the University of Madrid has stated: \"Decade by decade, research has reinforced the coherence of the Lady within the corpus of Iberian sculpture. The Lady was found more than a century ago, and many of its features, not then understood, have been confirmed by subsequent finds. For example, the use of paint in Iberian sculpture was unknown when the Lady appeared.\" A Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC) study on the Lady of Elche's micropigmentation published in 2005 concluded that the trace pigments on the statue were consistent with ancient materials and that no modern pigments had been found.\n\nIn 2011, María Pilar Luxán, the author of the 2005 study, analyzed microparticles within the back hole of the \"Dama d'Elx\" utilizing electron microscopy and X-ray dispersive spectrometry. Luxán deduced that the particles belonged to the ashes of human bones and that they compared with those of the Iberian period. She concluded that the statue was used as a funerary urn in the Iberian period, thus guaranteeing its antiquity and confirming the hypothesis about its function.\n\nFrench artist James Tissot based figures in several of his turn-of-the-century paintings on the recently discovered \"Lady of Elche\". \n\nThe Dama de Elche makes an appearance in Part III of William Gaddis's 1955 novel \"The Recognitions\", when the character Wyatt Gwyon examines a one peseta note and calls the engraving of the bust a \"beautiful thing\".\n\n"}
{"id": "29253816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29253816", "title": "Linguistics of the Soviet Union", "text": "Linguistics of the Soviet Union\n\nThe Soviet Union actively tried to incorporate Marxist ideals into the study of linguistics.\n\nLinguists had important positions in the early Soviet state, as they were needed to develop alphabets for languages that previously had never been written.\n\nIn the 1920s, language began to be seen as a social phenomenon, and Russian and Soviet linguists tried to give a sociological explanation to features of language. At the same time, Soviet linguists sought to develop a \"Marxist\" linguistics, as opposed to the early theories that were viewed as bourgeois. Based on this, linguists focused more on the spoken forms of the language, and devoted more time to the study of non-standard dialects than previous linguists had done. This can be seen in the work of Boris Alexandrovich Larin and Lev Petrovich Iakubinskii.\n\nThe leading linguist of the early Soviet era was Nicholas Marr, known for his Japhetic theory. The theory suggested that the Kartvelian languages had a common origin with the Semitic languages. He also applied the idea of class struggle to the development of language. After Marr died, a likely ghost-written article credited to Stalin blasted Marr's theory, stating \"Soviet linguistics cannot be advanced on the basis of an incorrect formula which is contrary to the whole course of the history of peoples and languages.\" Politically, World War II caused a rise in nationalism, which Japhetic theory argued against. This theory was never accepted outside the Soviet Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "38100066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38100066", "title": "List of industrial heritage sites", "text": "List of industrial heritage sites\n\nThis is a list of notable Industrial heritage sites throughout the world that have been inscribed on \"top tier\" heritage lists, including the UNESCO World Heritage List, Grade I listed buildings (England and Wales), Category A listed buildings (Scotland), Grade A listed buildings (Northern Ireland), National Historic Sites of Canada, National Historic Landmarks (USA), etc.\n\n\"Note: most sites listed below are also National Historic Landmarks.\"\n"}
{"id": "54666819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54666819", "title": "Lurish music", "text": "Lurish music\n\nLurish music is referred to an ethno-cultural characteristic of Lurs in the middle-east. The Lurish music enjoys a various and ancient background, and it can be divided into two parts; vocal music and instrumental.\nBased on the songs, the Lurish music is divided into seven sections; \n\nThe most popular Lurish musical instruments include Sorna, Dohol, Tâl (Lurish kamancheh), Tonbak (Tomak), and the common Iranian traditional instruments. Meanwhile, the Lurish kamancheh is the only one that is fundamentally different from other ethnic music instruments.\nThe Lurs select the Mâhur\nas their basic musical step to showcase the magnificence, grandeur and independence of their people.\n\nAfter 1979 revolution of Iran due to intense encounters with musical performances, especially ethnic music, the amount of music participation in different parts of the life of the Lurs was reduced however in the past, cheerful music and lyrics were accompanied with collective dance.\n\n"}
{"id": "34005200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34005200", "title": "Mano (stone)", "text": "Mano (stone)\n\nA mano (Spanish for \"hand\") is a ground stone tool used with a metate to process or grind food by hand.\n\nManos were used in prehistoric times to process wild seeds, nuts and other food, generally used with greater frequency in the Archaic period, when people became more reliant upon local wild plant food for their diet. Later, manos and metates were used to process cultivated maize.\n\nIn its early use in the American Southwest, the mano and metate were used to grind wild plants. The mano began as a one-handed tool and once cultivation of maize became more prevalent, the mano became a larger, two-handed tool that more efficiently ground food against an evolved basin or trough metate.\n\nBesides food, manos and metates were used to separate and pulverize clay from earthen debris and stones. The resulting clay was used for pottery-making.\n\nA mano, a smooth hand-held stone, is used against a metate, typically a large stone with a depression or bowl. The movement of the mano against the metate consists of a circular, rocking or chopping grinding motion using one or both hands.\n\nAncient Pueblo People often set up work rooms, called mealing rooms, that were established with sets of manos and metates for mass grinding efforts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47718301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47718301", "title": "Marguerite Kuczynski", "text": "Marguerite Kuczynski\n\nMarguerite Kuczynski (born Marguerite Steinfeld: 5 December 1904 – 15 January 1998) was a European economist and literary scholar. She was born and died in Germany. Some of her most productive and (especially for English-language readers) best documented years were spent in England, where she also achieved some notability as a feminist campaigner.\n\nMarguerite Steinfeld was born in 1904 Bischheim, a small town just to the north of Strasbourg, and at that time part of the German empire. When she was 14, the entire region was transferred to France following Germany's defeat in World War I. Steinfeld trained initially to work as a teacher. By 1920 she was studying at the Brookings School in Washington DC, where an early influence was the eminent statistician Ethelbert Stewart. While there, she got to know fellow German Jürgen Kuczynski, who was doing post-graduate work. They subsequently worked together and on 18 September 1928 they were married. In 1927 Steinfeld had taken a position as a research assistant at the recently established National Bureau of Economic Research, in New York City. In the summer of 1929, the young couple returned to Europe and settled in Berlin.\n\nIn January 1933 the NSDAP (Nazi party) took power and lost little time in setting up a one-party state in Germany. Membership of political parties (other than of the Nazi Party) became illegal, and the ban on political parties was enforced with particular effect in respect of (former) Communist Party members. During the next few years, the Nazi party increasingly expressed the strident anti-Semitism which had been featured in Nazi rhetoric during that party's years in opposition. During 1933 the Nazis arrested and imprisoned many German communists; others left the country to avoid the same fate. Sources indicate that as early as February/March 1933, the Kuczynskis discussed following other family members into emigration, but at this point they decided to stay in Germany and participate in anti-fascist resistance. Eventually, in January 1936, emigration could be put off no longer, however, and the couple moved to England.\n\nIn England the two of them continued their work as left-wing economists while also engaging in anti-Fascist work, some of it legal: some not. Marguerite published a number of articles on the labour market, wages and the position of workers, sometimes in collaboration with her husband. She also participated in anti-fascist immigrant organisations and, later in the decade, established a library for the English branch of the . She directed the library until the couple returned to Berlin in 1946. Up until 1942, she worked as secretary to the War Committee of German Woman Refugees (\"Kriegshilfskomitees deutscher Flüchtlingsfrauen\"). In 1943 she was elected to the executive committee of the Women’s Co-operative Guild. She gave lectures on the theme of Women's Resistance in Nazi Germany, and contributed an essay to a compilation-publication entitled \"Women under the Swastika\". She also organised numerous support actions and assisted with the visa applications of German refugees persecuted for reasons of politics or race.\n\nWar ended in May 1945, with Berlin now at the heart of the Soviet occupation zone in what remained of Germany. Several months after her husband, Marguerite Kuczynski returned to Berlin in March 1947; the couple at first lived in the same house they had inhabited before the war. It was now considered within the city's US occupation zone. Kuczynski took a position with the city administration and then, as the \"de facto\" political division of the city began to appear more permanent, and a few years later to be reflected in physical frontier-divisions, she took work with the Finance Ministry in the Soviet zone. Later, the Soviet-administered occupation zone was reorganized and declared in October 1949, as the Soviet-sponsored German Democratic Republic (East Germany). At that time, Kuczynski began working for the East German Ministry for Overseas Trade (\"Außenwirtschaftsministerium\"). She gave up government work, however, contending that work there was \"too amateurish\" (\"zu dilettantisch\"). \n\nIn any event, the real focus of power in East Germany, modeled on constitutional arrangements of the Soviet Union, was not with government ministries but with the Central Committee of the ruling Socialist Unity Party (SED / \"Sozialistische Einheitspartei Deutschlands\"). From 1957 Kuczynski worked as an academic researcher with the Central Committee's . In 1960 she retired from the Institute as well, finding it \"too dogmatic\". In the meantime, her outstanding achievements as a researcher with the Institute for Marxism–Leninism included a new edition of Karls Marx's early work, \"The Poverty of Philosophy\", included in Volume 4 of the 43 volume produced by the East German Party Central Committee between 1956 and 1990. Her contribution to the new edition of \"The Poverty of Philosophy\" was much enhanced by her use of an early French language edition, discovered following intensive research in Japan, in which Marx himself had penned extensive margin notes.\n\nSome of Marguerite Kuczynski's most enduring contributions to scholarship, produced only after her \"retirement\" in 1960, were a series of translations into German, supported by her own extensive and scholarly commentaries, of works by François Quesnay (Physiocrat). Later, during the 1980s, she made a start on a similar set of translations of the work of economist-statesman Turgot, but this project remained unfinished because her eye-sight failed.\n\nThe Kuczynskis had three recorded children: Madeleine (1932), Peter (1937) and Thomas (1944). Of these, Thomas Kuczynski subsequently became notable as an economist and statistician, known in particular for his work on damages claims of victims of German wartime Forced labour policies. Rita Kuczynski, known in German-speaking lands as a writer-philosopher (and more recently as a novelist), is a daughter-in-law of Marguerite Kuczynski.\n\nMarguerite Kuczynski died in Berlin in January 1998, slightly more than five months after the death of her husband. That year Thomas Kuczynski and his wife Rita divorced, following some years of separation.\n"}
{"id": "5088154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5088154", "title": "Melammu Project", "text": "Melammu Project\n\nThe Melammu Project investigates the continuity, transformation and diffusion of Mesopotamian and Ancient Near Eastern culture from the third millennium BCE through the ancient world until Islamic times. It does so by organizing conferences and by providing resources relevant to the project on its website.\n\nThe Melammu Project was founded during its first conference in Helsinki, Finland, in 1998, as an offshoot of the Neo-Assyrian Text Corpus Project. Its purpose is to investigate the continuity, transformation and diffusion of Mesopotamian and Ancient Near Eastern culture from the third millennium BCE through the ancient world until Islamic times. It has two main activities: to organize conferences, and to provide resources relevant to the project on its website.\n\nMelammu Symposia are held regularly and serve to promote interdisciplinary research and cross-cultural studies by providing a forum in which cultural continuity, diffusion and transformation in the ancient world can be assessed systematically on a long-term basis. The emphasis is on continued interchange of ideas between specialists in different disciplines, with the goal of gradually but steadily increasing the number of participants and thus breaking down the walls separating the individual disciplines. Although each symposium focuses on a different theme, since the primary purpose of the symposia is to encourage interdisciplinary cooperation per se, papers and posters not necessarily related to a specific theme but contributing to the overall scope of the project are welcome at every meeting.\n\nThe online resources provided by the Melammu Project include a database, a bibliography, a PDF library, and links to websites relevant to the project's focus. The database aims to collect textual, art-historical, archaeological, ethnographic and linguistic evidence concerning the heritage of Mesopotamia and the Ancient Near East and to make it easily accessible on the Internet. As the Melammu Project is envisioned as a 'community project', all resources are open-ended, which means that it is possible to submit information to enlarge and improve the database, bibliographies and lists of links through the website's submission forms.\n\nThe project is governed by a board, which consists of scholars from a wide variety of disciplines related to the project's focus. The main function of the board members is to promote the project and its meetings in the academic community and to safeguard the continuity of the project. For that reason, although the exact board size can vary, the board always consists of equally sized groups of senior and junior scholars (loosely defined). These include the organizers of the next two meetings (if known), as well as scholars involved in the database. The board is always elected for two years at one of the Melammu Symposia; the last election took place in 2013, at Melammu Symposia 7. The board currently consists of eighteen members, and is chaired by Robert Rollinger.\n\nThe Melammu Database contains documented links between the civilizations of Ancient Mesopotamia (Assyria, Babylonia and Sumer) and contemporary and later civilizations that show the impact and continuity of religion, political systems, art and iconography, literature, and other cultural and social phenomena as a result of both direct influence and of cultural diffusion.\n\nThere are two principal types of entries in the database. The first consists of citation from ancient texts. These entries are primary sources and consist of the ancient author's comments. Such entries have a \"source\" line which points to the ancient text and the Text-field contains a translation of the ancient source. There may be bibliographical citations as well if the passage has been discussed or commented on by other scholars. Wherever possible, there will be a hypertext link to the actual text of the ancient source.\n\nThe second type of entry consists of modern comparisons between features or phenomena in the ancient world that may show the effects of cultural contact or cultural diffusion. Entries of this type generally have a \"bibliography\" line that points to the scholarly assessment of this connection rather than a \"source\" line. However, if ancient sources are important for this connection, there may be a \"source\" line as well, sometimes including longer quotations, as in the first type. The Text-field will contain an outline of the argument connecting the features or phenomena.\n\nThe name Melammu and its logo were chosen to illustrate essential aspects of the cross-cultural processes that the Project investigates. The word melammu, which means \"divine radiance, splendour, nimbus, aura,\" is an Akkadian loanword from Sumerian. It thus concretely attests to the transfer and continuity of a centrally important doctrinal concept from an ideological system to a later one. In Mesopotamia alone, this concept has a documented continuity of over 4500 years, from the earliest cuneiform religious and historical documents (ca. 2600 BC) until the present day. The iconography of the concept has gone a long way from the radiance surrounding Mesopotamian gods to the halos surrounding the heads of Byzantine angels and saints and the loops hovering over the heads of Christian angels, but the concept itself has survived amazingly well and spread far beyond its original home.\n\nThe spread of the concept of \"divine radiance\" can be traced by observing the diffusion and transformations of the relevant iconographic motif. The logo of Melammu is taken from an Achaemenid seal discovered on the northeast coast of the Black Sea and represents the goddess Anahita, mounted on a lion and surrounded by the divine radiance, appearing to a Persian king. The details of the king's and the goddess's dress and crown are Persian, but in all other respects the seal is a faithful reproduction of centuries older Assyrian seals depicting appearances of the goddess Ishtar to members of the imperial ruling class. It thus illustrates not only the adoption of the Mesopotamian concept of \"divine radiance\" by the Persians, but also the assimilation of an important Iranian deity to a Mesopotamian one with the concomitant adoption of a whole system of religious beliefs, cultic practices, ideological doctrines, and artistic conventions. The fact that the seal was found outside the area controlled by the Assyrian Empire and possibly carved by a Greek artist, illustrates the dynamic diffusion of these ideas (through imperial propaganda) across geographical and cultural boundaries.\n\nThe radiance emitted by the goddess symbolizes to the Project the powerful impact of Mesopotamian culture on the surrounding world and later cultures, while the king symbolizes the crucial role of imperial courts in the preservation, transformation and diffusion of this cultural heritage.\n\nSo far, the following symposia have taken place:\n\n\nAt the Third Annual Symposium of the Assyrian and Babylonian Intellectual Heritage Project (Chicago, USA, October 27–31, 2000), the general assembly deliberated the foundation of an \"International Association for Intercultural Studies of the Melammu Project\", to be officially established through legal channels. However, during the general discussion at the end of the Melammu Symposia 7 (2013), it was decided by majority vote to absolve the association. The argument for doing so was that the association had never developed or functioned beyond its initial creation.\n\n"}
{"id": "37781864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37781864", "title": "Minimal recursion semantics", "text": "Minimal recursion semantics\n\nMinimal recursion semantics (MRS) is a framework for computational semantics. It can be implemented in typed feature structure formalisms such as head-driven phrase structure grammar and lexical functional grammar. It is suitable for computational language parsing and natural language generation. MRS enables a simple formulation of the grammatical constraints on lexical and phrasal semantics, including the principles of semantic composition. This technique is used in machine translation.\n\nEarly pioneers of MRS include Ann Copestake, Dan Flickinger, Carl Pollard, and Ivan Sag.\n\n"}
{"id": "13480401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13480401", "title": "Mojari", "text": "Mojari\n\nMojari or Khussa or Saleem Shahi's is a style of handcrafted footwear produced in South Asia. They are traditionally made by artisans mostly using tanned leather. The uppers are made of one piece of leather or textile embroidered and embellished with brass nails, cowry shells, mirrors, bells and ceramic beads. Even the bonding from the upper to the sole is done by cotton thread that is not only eco-friendly but also enmeshes the leather fibers with great strength. Some product range also uses bright and ornate threads.\n\nAs it evolved through the centuries and is being produced by individual artisans, products vary in designs and colours. It encapsules cultural diversity, local ethos and ethnicity.\n\nIt is believed that one of the earliest examples of footwear worn on the Indian subcontinent is a sandal of wood, datable to circa 200 BC. During the 3rd and 4th Centuries in the Buddhist period, it was quite common to wear strapped sandals, and Indian kings wore sandals ornamented with precious jewels. Jaina literature shows that leather was used for the making of shoes, which protected the toes from getting injured. Hides of cows, buffaloes, goats, sheep and other wild animals were used.\n\nThe Mojari originated under the Mughal Empire, where it was decorated with colours, gems, and other ornaments. They are said to have been popularized under the Mughal King Saleem Shah and are often referred to as Saleem Shahis as a result. They are also commonly worn with Shalwar Kameez. Although leather shoes have been worn for over 5,000 years by various civilizations, they should not be confused with Mojaris, because Mojaris are unique in their ornamental style, shape, and appearance. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "51478854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51478854", "title": "Mrs. Schuyler Van Rensselaer (Mariana Griswold)", "text": "Mrs. Schuyler Van Rensselaer (Mariana Griswold)\n\nMrs. Schuyler Van Rensselaer (Mariana Griswold) is a bronze sculpture by American artist Augustus Saint-Gaudens. It was designed in 1888 and cast in 1890. This artwork portrays the American author, art critic, and reformer Mariana Griswold Van Rensselaer (1851–1934), who \"championed Saint-Gaudens in articles on his public monuments and relief sculptures\".\n\nThe inscription on the upper center of the sculpture, \"animvs non opvs\" (\"the spirit, not the work\") is a reference to Mrs. Van Rensselaer’s \"high-minded aesthetic ideals\".\n\nThe work was given in 1917 by the sitter to the Metropolitan Museum of Art.\n\n"}
{"id": "12682525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12682525", "title": "Museo de Arte Precolombino, Cusco", "text": "Museo de Arte Precolombino, Cusco\n\nThe (also known by its acronym MAP; in ) is an art museum in Cusco, Peru, dedicated to the display of archaeological artifacts and examples of pre-Columbian artworks drawn from all regions of pre-Columbian Peru. The museum is situated on Plaza Nazarenas in Cusco's San Blas district, and has on permanent display exhibitions of some 450 individual representative artifacts that are drawn from the wider collection of its parent museum, the Larco Museum in the Peruvian capital Lima.\n\nThe building where the museum is now housed was originally an Inca ceremonial courthouse. In 1580, it was acquired by the \"conquistador\" and subsequently built over in Colonial style to become the home of an elite member of Cusco society, the Viceroy Hernandez de Cabrera, for whom the mansion is named. It then passed through many hands and had multiple functions, ultimately falling into a ruinous state. After a restoration by the Fundación BBVA, the Museo de Arte Precolombino opened in June 2003.\n\nPeruvian President Alejandro Toledo inaugurated the museum at the summit, saying \"we are showing the world our cultural wealth. I am profoundly proud that [we can give to the summit] a little of the culture that belongs not only to Peru, but also to Latin America… [The region must] look to its past to construct together a new Latin America with more health, education, justice for the poor and culture.\"\n\nThe works of art displayed at the museum, encompass a period of time ranging between 1250 BC and AD 1532. There are a total of ten galleries: Formative, Nasca, Mochica, Huari, Chancay – Chimu, Inca, Wood, Jewelry and Stone, Silver, and Gold and Metals.\n\nThe Formative Gallery houses pieces from many diverse cultures. Among these are Cupisnique, Salinar, Vicus, Viru and Paracas in its older phase or “cavernas”. During this period (1250 B. C - 1 A. D.) there is a remarkable advance in ceramic art. Painting and sculpture take in place; there are beautifully naturalistic and symbolic representations; many of them enriched by the use of incise decoration in which the Cupisnique artist get to a high development.\n\nThe Inca culture conquered all the territory of pre-Columbian Peru where they restored with great political ability the Tahuantinsuyo empire. In the Inca Gallery magnificent ceramic objects are showcased like the emblematic \"aribalos\" or monumental vessels. These pieces have many decorative elements that transmit a subtle message of organization and symbolism. One of these \"aribalos\" is of great size and is unique to the collection.\n\nThe Museum's Auditorium seats 120 people and often houses lectures and other local events.\n\nMuseo de Arte Italiano\n\n"}
{"id": "52372104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52372104", "title": "Nyayakusumanjali", "text": "Nyayakusumanjali\n\nNyayakusumanjali (\" A Handful of Flowers of Logic\") is a treatise in Sanskrit composed by 10th century CE Indian logician and philosopher Udayana. The work has been described as codification of the Hindu proof for the existence of God. It has been noted that this treatise is the most elaborate and the most fundamental work of the Nyaya-Vaiseshika school on the Isvara doctrine.\n\nIn Indian philosophical writings a \"prakarana\" refers to a genre of work that may be considered as roughly equivalent to the Western concept of a monograph. Nyayakusumanjali is a treatise belonging to this genre. Since the work consists of verses (known as \"karika\"s) interspersed with prose, it can be considered as a work of the genre Misra-prakarana (meaning \"mixed-\"prakarana\"\").\n\nThere are seventy-three verses in Nyayakusumanjali. These verses are distributed unevenly in five chapters (called \"Stabaka\"s, that is, \"cluster of blossoms\" or \"bunch of flowers\"). These chapters contain respectively twenty, four, twenty-three, six and twenty verses. These verses form the core of the work, the prose passage that accompanies each being an elaborate explanation of it.\n\nAfter a few introductory lines, Udayana enumerates five principal arguments which are said to invalidate the existence of Isvara: \"With regard to this there are five erroneous opinions (which assert that there exists no Isvara) on the ground that: \n\nThe various chapters of the Nyayakusumanjali deal with and refute these five erroneous opinions in the order in which they have been enunciated. However, some scholars are of the opinion that the first Stabaka refutes the view of the Carvakas, the second the view of the Mimamsakas, the third that of the Buddhists, the fourth that of the Jains and the fifth the view of the Samkhyins. Of the five chapters, the first four chapters have a negative tone in the sense that their main intention is to refute the objections of the different schools against the existence of Isvara. The last chapter has a positive tone in the sense that it tries to produce arguments and proofs for the existence of Isvara.\n\nThe first Stabaka begins with a dedicatory verse and it is followed with a statement regarding the theme dealt with in the book, namely the Supreme Soul. The author then summarises the reason for the logical discussion on Isvara: Despite the fact that Isvara is acknowledged by all philosophical schools and religious sects under some name or other, this study which is to be designated as reflection is made as an act of worship (upäsanä) that comes after the listening to the scriptures (sravanam). Then the five objections against the existence of Isvara are listed.\n\nUdayana lists five arguments for the existence of a supra-mundane means for attaining the other world. There is a supra-mundane cause because of the following reasons:\n\n\nThe discussion of these five arguments forms the subject matter of the first Stabaka.\n\nIn this Stabaka, Udayana tries to refute the argument that the transmission of Dharma or religious duties is possible without an Isvara.\nUdayana argues that the transmission of Dharma or religious duties is possible, because of the following reasons:\n\n\nThe explanation of these four themes forms the content of the second Stabaka.\n\nTaking one by one the different means of valid cognition admitted by the opponents, Udayana shows in this Stabaka that none of them can disprove the existence of Isvara.\n\n\nThe major portion of this Stabaka is devoted to the refutation of the Mimamsaka theory that valid cognition must be of an object not previously cognised. Udayana then shows that the cognition of Isvara cannot be said to be invalid even according to the definition of valid cognition given by the opponents.\n\nUdayana brings forward in this Stabaka a number of proofs to establish the existence of Isvara. The various proofs can be summarized as follows. Isvara's existence is established from:\n\n\nSeven works have been ascribed to Udayana. The following are the titles of the works in the chronological order in which they are believed to have been composed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46433544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46433544", "title": "Peter Stanley bibliography", "text": "Peter Stanley bibliography\n\nPeter Stanley is a prominent Australian military historian, who specialises in the military-social experience of war in the late nineteenth and first half of the twentieth centuries. In a career spanning over three decades, Stanley has worked as an Historian and later Head of the Military History Section at the Australian War Memorial (1980–2007), Head of the Centre for Historical Research at the National Museum of Australia (2007–13) and, since 2013, as Research Professor at the University of New South Wales in the Australian Centre for the Study of Armed Conflict and Society. Starting in 1977—and as at 2017—Stanley has written (or co-written) 26 books and edited eight others, published two novels and co-authored a booklet, and composed at least 42 chapters in books and anthologies, 59 journal articles, seven encyclopaedia entries and numerous papers. In 2011, his book \"Bad Characters: Sex, Crime, Mutiny, Murder and the Australian Imperial Force\" (2010) was the joint winner of the Prime Minister's Prize for Australian History.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56941688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56941688", "title": "Philosopher's Annual", "text": "Philosopher's Annual\n\nThe Philosopher's Annual (PA) is an annual selection of ten best papers in philosophy. It takes as its goal \"to select the ten best articles published in philosophy each year—an attempt as simple to state as it is admittedly impossible to fulfill\". It is published annually since 1978 and the editors are Patrick Grim, Boris Babic, Caroline Perry and Joseph Shin.\n"}
{"id": "2103140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103140", "title": "Public value", "text": "Public value\n\nPublic value describes the value that an organization contributes to society. The term was originally coined by Harvard professor Mark H. Moore who saw it as the equivalent of shareholder value in public management. Public value is supposed to provide managers with a notion of how entrepreneurial activity can contribute to the common good. Nowadays, public value is no longer limited to the public sector, but is used by all types of organization, including non-governmental organizations and private sector firms. Therefore, the public value researcher Timo Meynhardt from the University of St. Gallen and HHL Leipzig Graduate School of Management uses the term to generally raise the question about organizations' contribution to the common good. He believes that current management concepts, such as shareholder value, stakeholder value, customer value, sustainability or corporate social responsibility, should legitimize themselves in regard to their impact on the common good.\n\nIn his (social-)psychological-based concept, public value emerges for individuals from the experiences made in social structures and relationships. Hence, it can be seen as a prerequisite and a resource for successful living.\n\n\"Public values are those providing normative consensus about (1) the rights, benefits, and prerogatives to which citizens should (and should not) be entitled; (2) the obligations of citizens to society, the state and one another; and (3) the principles on which governments and policies should be based.\" Bozeman, 2007\n\n\"Public value is value for the public. Value for the public is a result of evaluations about how basic needs of individuals, groups and the society as a whole are influenced in relationships involving the public. Public value then is also value from the public, i.e., “drawn” from the experience of the public. The public is an indispensable operational fiction of society. Any impact on shared experience about the quality of the relationship between the individual and society can be described as public value creation. Public value creation is situated in relationships between the individual and society, founded in individuals, constituted by subjective evaluations against basic needs, activated by and realized in emotional-motivational states, and produced and reproduced in experience-intense practices.\" Meynhardt, 2009\n\n\"The definition that remains equates managerial success in the public sector with initiating and reshaping public sector enterprises in ways that increase their value to the public in both the short and the long run.\" Moore, 1995\n\n\"Public Value (or Public Value Capital) then is the combined view of the public about what they regard as valuable.\" Talbot, 2006\n\nThe research program on public value was kicked off by Professor Mark H. Moore of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, who published a book on the subject, \"Creating Public Value. Strategic Management in Government\", in 1995. In this sense, public value can be instituted as an organising principle in a public sector organisation, providing a focus in the context of which individual employees are free to pursue and propose new ideas about how to improve the working of the organisation, in terms of efficiency or services. Public organisations seeking to use public value as a principle need to create a corporate culture in which the pursuit of public values by employees is rewarded just as pursuing shareholder value is rewarded in private corporations. \n\nThe concept has been taken up initially by academics, think tanks and NGOs, and later by a number of public sector organisations in the United Kingdom and other countries.\n\nIn 2004 it was used by the BBC as the cornerstone of its manifesto for the renewal of its charter.\n\nIn 2006 Accenture launched the Institute for Public Service Value (IPSV), to explore how public value is created in government organizations. Greg Parston, co-founder and former Chief Executive of the Office for Public Management, and a collaborator with Professor Moore, was appointed Director. Among many other studies, IPSV conducted the Global Cities Forum in 2007-2009, which facilitated citizens' deliberations on their experiences and expectations of public value in 17 cities around the world. \n\nIn 2006, the Center for Technology in Government (CTG) in partnership with SAP AG, conducted research on the topic of public value in the context of governments' investments in information technology (IT). The results of this research found that governments' ability to realize the full value of IT investments is not completely measurable in terms of financial results. More specifically, the five U.S. and international governments studied, looked for the full value of government IT investments in both the internal value to government operations and the broader political and social returns to the public at large.\n\nFrom this point of view, there are two sources of public value: \nIn November 2006, UK-based The Work Foundation published a report on their project, titled \"Deliberative democracy and the role of public managers\"\",\" followed in October 2008 by \"Public Value: The Next Steps in Public Service Reform\" \n\nThe German Federal Employment Agency uses the public value concept to better understand its contribution to society that goes beyond simple task fulfillment and make it a yardstick for management decisions. An empirical study has shown that a particular value of this organization is seen in its contribution to social peace in Germany.\n\nPublic value is also taken up by private sector companies that want to maintain a license to operate and understand what implications new strategies and projects might have in terms of public value creation/ destruction. Such analyses can be done using a Public Value Scorecard as proposed by Timo Meynhardt and Peter Gomez. Public value acknowledges that established business paradigms such as customer value or stakeholder value risk overemphasizing certain aspects of business' value contribution to society at the expense of other important dimensions. It pledges for a redefinition of the entire notion of value creation as it takes utilitarian and hedonistic as well as political and moral aspects of value creation into account.\n\nA number of firms use public value to obtain management information helping to take strategic decisions. Examples include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15826297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15826297", "title": "Seriousness", "text": "Seriousness\n\nSeriousness (noun; adjective: serious) is an attitude of gravity, solemnity, persistence, and earnestness toward something considered to be of importance. Some notable philosophers and commentators have criticised excessive seriousness, while others have praised it. Seriousness is often contrasted with comedy, as in the seriocomedy. In the theory of humor, one must have a sense of humor and a sense of seriousness to distinguish what is supposed to be taken literally or not, or of being important or not. Otherwise, it may also be contrasted with a sense of play. How children learn a sense of seriousness to form values and differentiate between the serious and that which is not is studied in developmental psychology and educational psychology. There is a distinction between the degree of seriousness of various crimes in sentencing under the law, and also in law enforcement. There is a positive correlation with the degree of seriousness of a crime and viewer ratings of news coverage. What is or is not considered serious varies widely with different cultures.\n\nSometimes fields studying degrees of seriousness overlap, such as developmental psychology studies of development of the sense of degrees of seriousness as it relates to transgressions, which has overlap with criminology and the seriousness of crimes. \nSource:Alchilagyo.com\n\nSome use \"seriousness\" as a term of praise for scholarship or in literary review. 19th century poet, cultural critic, and literary critic, Matthew Arnold said that the most important criteria used to judge the value of a poem were \"high truth\" and \"high seriousness\".\n\nMany have expressed an attitude of disdain toward taking things too seriously, as opposed to viewing things with an attitude of humor. Poet, playwright, and philosopher Joseph Addison said that being serious is dull, \"we are growing serious, and let me tell you, that's the next step to being dull.\" Political satirist P.J. O'Rourke said that \"Seriousness is stupidity sent to college.\" Epigramist, poet, and playwright Oscar Wilde said that \"life is too important to be taken seriously.\" In a play on words, novelist Samuel Butler indicated that the \"central serious conviction in life\" is that nothing should be taken with too much seriousness, \"the one serious conviction that a man should have is that nothing is to be taken too seriously.\"\n\nIn some ascetic or puritan religious sects, an attitude of seriousness is always to be taken, and solemnity, sobriety, and puritanism with its hostility to social pleasures and indulgences are the only acceptable attitudes. Perry Miller, \"the master of American intellectual history\", wrote of excessive seriousness of the Puritans, \"simple humanity cries at last for some relief from the interminable high seriousness of the Puritan code.\"\n\nExistentialist philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre called the \"spirit of seriousness’’ the belief that there is an objective and independent goodness in things for people to discover, and that this belief leads to bad faith. He argued that people forget that values are not absolute, but are contingent and subjectively determined. In Sartre’s words, \"the spirit of seriousness has two characteristics: it considers values as transcendent ‘'givens’’, independent of human subjectivity, and it transfers the quality of ‘desirable’ from the ontological structure of things to their simple material constitution.\"\n\nSeriousness is sometimes contrasted with the comical in humor. In the performing arts and literature, the seriocomedy is a genre which blends seriousness with the comical, drama with comedy.\n\nIn the theory of humor, one must have a sense of humor and a sense of seriousness to distinguish what is supposed to be taken literally or not. An even more keen sense is needed when humor is used to make a serious point. Psychologists have studied how humor is intended to be taken as having seriousness, as when court jesters used humor to convey serious information. Conversely, when humor is not intended to be taken seriously, bad taste in humor may cross a line after which it is taken seriously, though not intended.\n\nIn Developmental psychology and educational psychology, seriousness is studied as it relates to how children develop an ability to distinguish levels of seriousness as it relates to transgressions and expenditure of time; for example, a child must learn to distinguish between levels of seriousness in admonitions such as between \"don't fidget\" and \"don't forget to look both ways when crossing the street\", which have the same linguistic and normative structure, but different levels of seriousness.\n\nThe degree of seriousness of crimes is an important factor relating to crime. One standard for measurement is the degree to which a crime affects others or society. A felony is generally considered to be a crime of \"high seriousness\", while a misdemeanor is not.\n\nIn criminal law the degree of seriousness is considered when meting out punishment to fit the crime, and in considering to what extent overcrowded prison facilities will be used. Seriousness of a crime is a major factor in considerations of the allocation of scarce law enforcement funds.\n\nThe meaning and measurement of seriousness is a major concern in public policy considerations. A quantitative scoring system called the \"seriousness score\" has been developed for use in allocating law enforcement resources and sentencing.\n\nAs to England and Wales, see section 143 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003.\n\nDegrees of seriousness are used in medicine to make decisions about care. Seriousness is related to the effects of delaying or not having medical care. In an emergency hospital, the triage nurse must evaluate levels of seriousness of medical emergencies and rank them to determine order of care. Seriousness of illness is used to make decisions as to whether to perform invasive procedures such as surgery.\n\nThere is a positive correlation between the degree of seriousness of a crime and viewer ratings of news coverage.\n\nWhat is considered serious varies widely across cultures and is studied in sociology, cultural anthropology, and criminology; being of the wrong religious faith may be considered a serious crime in some cultures; smoking marijuana may be a serious crime in some cultures and not others; homosexuality a serious crime in some cultures; and prostitution is a serious crime in some cultures. Perception of seriousness is measured in assessing varying cultural perceptions on health risks.\n"}
{"id": "355401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355401", "title": "Solomon Feferman", "text": "Solomon Feferman\n\nSolomon Feferman (December 13, 1928 – July 26, 2016) was an American philosopher and mathematician with works in mathematical logic. \n\nFeferman was born in The Bronx in New York City from working class parents who had emigrated to the United States after World War I and had met and married in New York. Neither had any advanced education. The family moved to Los Angeles, where Feferman graduated from high school at age 16. He received his B.S. from the California Institute of Technology in 1948 and his Ph.D. in mathematics in 1957 from the University of California, Berkeley under Alfred Tarski, after being drafted from 1953 to 1955. In 1956 he was hired with appointments in the Departments of Mathematics and Philosophy at Stanford University, where later he became the Patrick Suppes Professor of Humanities and Sciences.\n\nFeferman was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1972 and 1986 and the Schock Prize in logic and philosophy in 2003. He was invited to deliver the Tarski Lectures in 2006. In 2012 he became a fellow of the American Mathematical Society.\n\nFeferman was the editor-in-chief of the five volumes of \"Collected Works\" of Kurt Gödel that were published by Oxford University Press between 2001 and 2013.\n\nTogether with his wife Anita Burdman Feferman, he wrote a biography of Alfred Tarski: \"Alfred Tarski: Life and Logic\" in 2004.\n\nHe worked on predicative mathematics, and in particular introduced the Feferman–Schütte ordinal as a measure of the strength of certain predicative systems.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28010671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28010671", "title": "Theory of religious economy", "text": "Theory of religious economy\n\nReligious economy refers to religious persons and organizations interacting within a market framework of competing groups and ideologies. An economy makes it possible for religious suppliers to meet the demands of different religious consumers. By offering an array of religions and religious products, a competitive religious economy stimulates such activity in a market-type setting.\n\nThe field applies rational choice theory to the theory of religion such that supply and demand are used to model the development and success of organized religions. Major proponents of the theory include William Sims Bainbridge, Roger Finke, Laurence Iannaccone, and Rodney Stark.\n\nThe idea of religious economy frames religion as a product and as those who practice or identify with any particular religion as a consumer. But when the idea of belief is brought into the equation, this definition expands, and ideology affects the \"product\" and who \"consumes\" it. When examining depictions of religious identity in a global world, it is easy to see how ideology affects religious economy.\n\nCarl L. Bankston III refers to religions and religious groups as \"…competing firms [that vie for] customers who make rational choices among available products…\" (311). Using a liberal economic (see Economic liberalism) framework for analysis, Bankston is claiming that religions and religious groups’ popularity is dependent on the laws of supply and demand. As a marketplace, religious consumers are subject to things such as marketing, availability of product, resources, brand recognition, etc. But unlike some actual commodity such as a computer, these commodities speak to an individual’s beliefs. Bankston poses the idea that belief deals with ideology and extends beyond what one would typically define as a market good by stating \"…belief is produced and resides in communicated thoughts, (and) the consumers of goods of faith can only become consumers by becoming producers, by participating in interactions of belief…\" (322).\n\nPrior to the emergence of the theory of religious economy some scholars of religion, such as Steve Bruce, believed that modernization would lead inevitably to the erosion of religiosity. These sociologists have predicted the disappearance of religion from Earth, based on the decline in religious belief and observance in Western Europe. According to the theory of religious economy, societies that restrict supply of religion, either through an imposed state religious monopoly or through state-sponsored secularization, are the main causes of drops in religiosity. Correspondingly, the more religions a society has, the more likely the population is to be religious. This is refuted in the orthodox view by stating that if a liberal religious community is tolerant of a wide array of belief, then they are less likely to hold certain beliefs in common, so nothing can be shared and reified in a community context. If nothing is shared, then nothing is shunned, and there is thus a loss in observance of modern liberal traditions.\n\nAccording to Rodney Stark, revival is another aspect of religious change which coincides with secularization. Over time established religious groups will spawn smaller and less worldly subgroups of the faith. This trend of revival provides a plausible explanation why religion never seems to fade away and to why previously prominent religious organizations have dissipated. Revival produces a shift in which religious groups a population will follow and proves effective against the demise of religion.\n\nUnlike a sect which follows traditions from its parent religion, a cult presents completely new religious traditions. Cult is simply another word for a new religion and all current religions at one point could have been considered cult movements. The negative connotations on the word cult have led to hostility between these movements and their social environments. Rodney Stark defines the two reactions from secularization being revival and cult formation. As old faiths eventually weaken the rise of different religious sects and cults will prevail.\n\nStrict Churches are prevalent in the US and around the world and while people still question and debate their ascent, their ties are characteristically defined as being strong within the group with few weak ties branching outside to other groups. Strict churches arise from strict doctrines and can be in many forms such as large churches, sects, or cults but are not limited to these. Churches are most often known for their “cosmopolitan networks, while sects tend to consist of intense local networks,” while this may be true for “unstrict” doctrines this is not always the case for strict doctrines. Strong doctrines can arise from certain sects as various religions have done such as Orthodox Judaism, Islam, certain denominations of Christianity, or can include rather smaller cults or small sects. What all strong doctrines employ though, are formal controls to discourage free riding within the group and to keep the church strong and together. These controls can vary from church to church but all serve the same purpose of keeping group solidarity.\n\nAs commonly seen strict churches employ various means of keeping their ties in their church strong while limiting excessive access to other groups such as dress code, eating habits, and rituals that prevent mixing with other groups. The implication of these, “strict demands ‘strengthen’ a church in three ways; they raise overall levels of commitment, they increase average rates of participation, and they enhance the net benefits of membership.” Complying with these demands prevent the members of a church from free loading within the group and promote group solidarity. The strict rules that govern and regulate a church actually help and promote the strength of the ties within the group. Those who don’t comply with these strictures are screened out leaving only those who do comply and comply earnestly.” These strict doctrines and regulations serve to keep the church strong and together while screening out members that may actually harm the church unintentionally by being free loaders within the group.\n\nOriginally proposed by H. Richard Niebuhr in his book \"The Social Sources of Denominationalism\", the theory discusses the difference between churches and sects. Niebuhr proposed that there is a cycle which sects and churches follow. Religions originate as sects designed to serve the needs of the deprived. If they flourish, they increasingly serve the interests of the middle and upper classes and are transformed into churches. Once the sects have become churches they become less effective in satisfying the needs of the lower class and the formation of a sect is re-created.\n\nIn 1963 Benton Johnson revised the church-sect theory into its current state. Church and sect form opposite poles on an axis representing the amount of \"tension\" between religious organizations and their social environments. Tension, as defined by Benton Johnson, is \"a manifestation of deviance.\" The tension is described to be between the groups members and the outside world. Churches are described as religious bodies having low tension, whereas, sects have high tension.\n\nSome social scientists have become increasingly uncomfortable with what they see as the intermingling of social scientific analysis and free-market ideology in rational choice theory. Some have likewise raised critical questions about the ideological use of neo-classical economic metaphors in rational choice theorizing about religion \n\nThe \"theory of religious economy\" arises from the application of fundamental principles of economics to the analysis of religious organizations. Just as commercial economies consist of a market in which different firms compete, religious economies consist of a market (the aggregate demand for religion) and firms (different religious organizations) seeking to attract and hold clients. The theory of religious economy was developed to explain why and how religions change.\n\nAccording to the theory, religious pluralism gives the population a wide variety of choices in religion and leads to a religious economy in which different religious organizations compete for followers, much the way businesses compete for consumers in a commercial economy. The Theory of Religious Economy takes into account a wide spectrum of issues (e.g., the differences between competitive religious markets and religious monopolies), making this theory one of the most significant developments in the social scientific study of religion during the past thirty years. The theory focuses attention on religious suppliers and whether religious firms have the ability to increase the demand for religion.\n\nIn a free market, or pluralistic religious market, many religious organizations exist and seek to appeal to certain segments of the market. Organizations in a free market cannot rely on the state for resources so they must compete for participation of the religious consumer. Contest among religious firms results in the specialization of products so that consumers are able to distinguish different organization from others(Chesnut). Pluralistic religions operate on a personal scale, marketing more to individual demands as opposed to public. As the majority of the consumer market, organizations market more to women than men. Pluralism is only possible through lack of favoritism by the state.(Chesnut) A competitive and pluralistic religious economy has a positive effect on levels of participation.\n\nA microeconomic theory of the household production function and time allocation is associated with the work of Chicago economist Gary Becker. An influential approach dating from the 1970s adapts that theory to explain religious participation and a resulting formation of norms. It postulates stable preferences and rational choice constrained by limited human and social capital to explain behavior.\n\nAs in economics, the market situation can be described with concepts about monopoly, prohibition, and pluralism. Monopolies in religion are only made possible through state enforcement and often function on a public scale. When the government establishes a set religion and all other competition is drowned out then \"believers are culturally connected but not necessarily spiritually\"(Andrew Chesnut) to the religion enforced by the state. Since participation in a religious monopoly is not as important because the church does not have to rely on members for resources they are not forced to provide adequate or marketable \"religious products\"(Chesnut), due to lack of competition. The ability of a religious organization to monopolize a religious economy is entirely dependent on the extent to which the state governs the religious economy. A monopolized religious economy tends to have lower levels of participation.\n\nSome states may categorically ban religious observances, and attempt to sanction those who persist in displaying religious conviction. Disestablishmentarianism results from state withdrawal from an organization that was originally established under the state.\n\nReligious markets are similar to other markets in that they are social creations. The exchanges that take place in a religious market are regulated by social factors. Elements of social interactions such as norms and morals influence the individual choices and preferences of the religious consumer. Therefore, elements of social interactions influence the types of religious goods offered to consumers in the marketplace and the changes in consumer demands over a span of time.\n\nAccording to W. Robertson Smith, \"The fear of the gods was a motive to enforce the laws of society which were also the laws of morality\". People are taught that those who believe will gain rewards or avoid punishment in the afterlife, and non-believers will miss out on the rewards or receive punishment.\n\n"}
{"id": "43693796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43693796", "title": "Undermatching", "text": "Undermatching\n\nUndermatching is a phenomenon in American higher education in which well-qualified school-leavers, often from less affluent households, are not matched with competitive colleges. Undermatched students attend less-demanding colleges such as two-year colleges or don't attend college at all.\n\nUndermatching is considered as a serious issue in higher education, and it is getting increased attention from education researchers and policymakers. Undermatching can affect long-term economic inequality and social mobility, and it can negatively affect college graduation rates. According to one view, minority and less-affluent students have substantially lower graduation rates and take longer on average to get degrees when they do stay in school. Low college graduation rates are a problem in the United States; one estimate is that fewer than 60% of high school graduates manage to earn a bachelor's degree, which is one of the worst completion rates of developed nations. The problem of undermatched students has attracted the attention of the executive branch. Proposals to reduce undermatching include making it easier to transfer between colleges, making financial aid policies more transparent, and helping students identify colleges that will challenge them academically, possibly by sending high-achieving low-income seniors an information packet about college choices. According to a report by \"NBC News\" in 2014, some elite colleges such as Williams strive actively to bring bright low-income students by supporting them financially but these colleges can find themselves pressed to make up the shortfall by seeking out more full-paying students; as a result, students at such colleges tend to be mostly affluent with some low-income students but few from the middle class, which reporter Nona Willis-Aronowitz described as a \"middle class squeeze\".\n\nWhile estimates vary, the numbers of undermatched students in the United States are considerable. One estimate is that only a third of high-achieving students from the bottom quartile of income distribution attended any of the 238 \"most selective\" colleges. Another estimate is that 28% of college students are undermatched and could have attended a more rigorous institution, while 25% may be overmatched or \"over their heads\". An overall estimate is that each year there are 400,000 low-income well-qualified high school graduates who do not enroll in college, and that there are an additional 200,000 who are in college but undermatched. Many undermatched students are African-American or Latinos, and generally come from poor or less affluent backgrounds. Researchers studying undermatching have noticed that undermatched students are more likely to report fewer self-perceived gains from their education, and have less educational satisfaction on average, although they had more frequent meetings with faculty and were more likely to participate in collaborative learning projects, according to one study. They are less likely on average to graduate from college.\n\nUndermatching is generally not believed to be caused by discriminatory policies by college admissions offices but rather by a lack of applications by well-qualified students. Simply put, high-qualified low-income students do not apply to colleges they are qualified for. Lack of information about choices and scholarships may be a factor, as well as basic financial constraints. This includes misperceptions about costs; many undermatched applicants are deterred by the artificially high sticker prices by elite colleges without realizing there are numerous opportunities for financial aid.\n\n"}
{"id": "15431412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15431412", "title": "Vaudeville in the Philippines", "text": "Vaudeville in the Philippines\n\nVaudeville/bodabil in the Philippines, more commonly referred to as bodabil, was a popular genre of entertainment in the Philippines from the 1910s until the mid-1960s. For decades, it competed with film, radio and television as the dominant form of Filipino mass entertainment. It peaked in popularity during the Japanese occupation in the Philippines from 1941 to 1945. Many of the leading figures of Philippine film in the 20th century, such as Dolphy, Nora Aunor, Leopoldo Salcedo and Rogelio de la Rosa, began their showbusiness careers in bodabil.\n\nBodabil is an indigenized form of vaudeville, which had been introduced in the Philippines around the turn of the 20th century. It featured a hodgepodge of musical numbers, short-form comedy and dramatic skits, and even magic acts, often staged inside the theaters of Manila. Bodabil proved the vehicle for the popularization of musical trends and musicians, performance genres and performers.\n\nAt around the beginning of the American occupation of the Philippines at the turn of the 20th century, stage entertainment in the Philippines was dominated by the Spanish-influenced \"komedya\" and the newly emergent \"zarzuela\" (or \"sarswela\"). In order to entertain American troops stationed in the Philippines, vaudeville acts from outside the Philippines were brought in to provide entertainment. As early as 1901, a leading Manila theater, the \"Teatro Zorilla\", would promote some of these visiting vaudeville troupes as \"Novelties in Manila\".\n\nDuring these early years of vaudeville in the Philippines, most of the featured entertainers were non-Filipinos. By the middle of the 1910s, a few Filipino performers would begin to appear in vaudeville acts as well. The zarzuela star Atang de la Rama was among the first of such performers, as well as the singer Katy de la Cruz, who first appeared on Manila stages aged 7. The routines they would perform were featured as intermission numbers in between sarswelas. These intermission numbers were sometimes called \"jamborees\".\n\nIn 1920, a Filipino entertainer named Luis Borromeo returned from North America, renamed himself \"Borromeo Lou\", and organized what became the first Filipino bodabil company. The main showcase of Borromeo Lou's company was an orchestral band, which played what he called \"Classical-Jazz Music\", and variety acts in between. Borromeo's band is credited as having popularized jazz in the Philippines. It was also Borromeo who dubbed the emerging form as \"vod-a-vil\", which soon became popularly known by its Filipinized name, bodabil.\n\nIn 1923, there were three theaters in Manila that were exclusively devoted to bodabil. By 1941, there were 40 theaters in Manila featuring bodabil shows. The popularity of bodabil was not confined to Manila stages. Bodabil routines were also staged in town fiestas and carnivals. The typical bodabil shows would feature a mixture of performances of American ballads, torch songs and blues numbers; dance numbers featuring tap dancers and chorus girls and jitterbug showcases; and even the occasional kundiman. \n\nWithin that period, established performers such as Katy de la Cruz and Borromeo Lou continued to thrive. New stars also emerged, such as the singers Diana Toy and Miami Salvador; the dancer Bayani Casimiro, and the magician and Chaplin imitator Canuplin. Many leading lights of Philippine cinema began their entertainment careers in bodabil during this period, such as Rogelio de la Rosa, Leopoldo Salcedo, Dely Atay-Atayan and Chichay. Bodabil thrived despite the emergence of Filipino film productions. Many moviehouses featured bodabil performances in between screenings, and many film and bodabil stars frequently crossed over from one genre to the other.\n\nThe Japanese invasion of the Philippines in late 1941 led to a halt in film production in the country, at the insistence of the Japanese who were not keen to allow Western influences to persist within the country. Bodabil however was permitted, and it became the predominant form of entertainment in the country. Many film actors whose careers had been stalled became regular performers in bodabil shows. \n\nAmong the performers whose careers were jumpstarted during this period were Panchito Alba, Anita Linda, Rosa Mia, the tandem of Pugo and Togo, and Dolphy, who started under the stage name \"Golay\" as a comic dance partner of Bayani Casimiro. \n\nMany bodabil shows during the war incorporated subtle anti-Japanese and pro-American messages. Pugo and Togo had a popular routine where they portrayed Japanese soldiers wearing multiple wristwatches on both of their arms, and they were soon briefly incarcerated for that spoof. There were comedic and dramatic skits that referred to the impending return of \"Mang Arturo\", an allusion to General MacArthur's promise, \"I shall return.\" Even guerilla members attended bodabil shows, and when word reached the performers that the Kempetai were due to arrive, they'd break out into a special song that served as code to the guerillas to leave the premises.\n\nFollowing the end of World War II, film production in the Philippines resumed, and many of bodabil's stars either returned or shifted to cinema. Bodabil however remained popular for the next two decades. A large credit to bodabil's continued popularity can be attributed to Lou Salvador, Sr., a performer with the stage name \"Chipopoy\" who shifted to production after the war. Salvador would become the most successful stage show impresario in the '40s and '50s. He organized several bodabil troupes and discovered a new generation of bodabil performers, such as the comedians Chiquito, Cachupoy and German Moreno, the singers Pepe Pimentel, Diomedes Maturan, and Eddie Peregrina. \n\nBodabil continued to capitalize on the latest trends in Western entertainment. It featured popular Latin dances such as the mambo and cha-cha, or the boogie, which was popularized by Chiquito. When rock and roll emerged in the 1950s, bodabil showcased Eddie Mesa, who became known as the \"Elvis Presley of the Philippines\". In the late 1950s, singers such as Nora Aunor, Elizabeth Ramsey, Pilita Corrales and Sylvia La Torre also plied the bodabil circuit. Bodabil had also started to incorporate burlesque numbers into its routines.\n\nBy the 1960s, bodabil had to compete as well with the rise of commercial television broadcasts in the Philippines. It underwent a swift decline, and by the late 1960s, the form drew on the limited market for its burlesque routines. The emergence of \"bomba\" films around 1969-1970, which killed off burlesque, also marked the end of bodabil.\n\nAfter martial law was declared in 1972, President Ferdinand Marcos attempted to revive a sanitized form of bodabil. Theaters such as the Manila Grand Opera House again featured bodabil routines, with slogans praising martial law rule piped into the theaters in between numbers. These efforts proved unpopular. In the 1980s, activist groups within the University of the Philippines also tried to utilize the bodabil format, using the medium to promote socially conscious themes.\n\nWhile bodabil was undoubtedly popular and somewhat indigenized from vaudeville, it was hardly indigenous to the Philippines and seen as indicative of the pervasiveness of American culture in the country. Many of the cultural trends it popularized were Western or American in origin, though the interpreters largely Filipino. At the same time, many older, and equally colonial forms of stage entertainment such as the komedya and the sarswela declined due to the rise of bodabil.\n\nThe influence of bodabil in Filipino culture arguably persists to this day. Its hodgepodge of song and dance numbers are still recognizable in television variety shows and even in intermission numbers in political rallies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1624295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1624295", "title": "Voice onset time", "text": "Voice onset time\n\nIn phonetics, voice onset time (VOT) is a feature of the production of stop consonants. It is defined as the length of time that passes between the release of a stop consonant and the onset of voicing, the vibration of the vocal folds, or, according to other authors, periodicity. Some authors allow negative values to mark voicing that begins during the period of articulatory closure for the consonant and continues in the release, for those unaspirated voiced stops in which there is no voicing present at the instant of articulatory closure.\nThe concept of voice onset time can be traced back as far as the 19th century, when Adjarian (1899: 119) studied the Armenian stops, and characterized them by \"the relation that exists between two moments: the one when the consonant bursts when the air is released out of the mouth, or explosion, and the one when the larynx starts vibrating\". However, the concept became \"popular\" only in the 1960s, in a context described by Lin & Wang (2011: 514): \"At that time, there was an ongoing debate about which phonetic attribute would allow voiced and voiceless stops to be effectively distinguished. For instance, voicing, aspiration, and articulatory force were some of the attributes being studied regularly. In English, \"voicing\" can successfully separate from when stops are at word-medial positions, but this is not always true for word-initial stops. Strictly speaking, word-initial voiced stops are only partially voiced, and sometimes are even voiceless.\" The concept of VOT finally acquired its name in the famous study of Lisker & Abramson (1964).\n\nA number of problems arose in defining VOT in some languages, and there is a call for reconsidering whether this speech synthesis parameter should be used to replace articulatory or aerodynamic model parameters which do not have these problems, and which have a stronger explanatory significance. As in the discussion below, any explication of VOT variations will invariably lead back to such aerodynamic and articulatory concepts, and there is no reason presented why VOT adds to an analysis, other than that, as an acoustic parameter, it may sometimes be easier to measure than an aerodynamic parameter (pressure or airflow) or an articulatory parameter (closure interval or the duration, extent and timing of a vocal fold abductory gesture).\n\nThree major phonation types of stops can be analyzed in terms of their voice onset time.\n\n\nBecause neither aspiration nor voicing is absolute, with intermediate degrees of both, the relative terms fortis and lenis are often used to describe a binary opposition between a series of consonants with higher (more positive) VOT, defined as \"fortis\", and a second series with lower (more negative) VOT, defined as \"lenis\". Of course, being relative, what fortis and lenis mean in one language will not in general correspond to what they mean in another.\n\nVoicing contrast applies to all types of consonants, but aspiration is generally only a feature of stops and affricates.\n\nAspiration may be transcribed , long (strong) aspiration . Voicing is most commonly indicated by the choice of consonant letter. For one way of transcribing pre-voicing and other timing variants, see extensions to the IPA#Diacritics. Other systems include that of Laver (1994), who distinguishes fully devoiced and from initial partial devoicing of the onset of a syllable by and from final partial devoicing of the coda of a syllable by .\n\n"}
{"id": "550443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=550443", "title": "Whassup?", "text": "Whassup?\n\nWhassup? (also known as Wazzup) was a commercial campaign for Anheuser-Busch Budweiser beer from 1999 to 2002. The first spot aired during \"Monday Night Football\", December 20, 1999. The ad campaign was run worldwide and became a pop culture catchphrase. The phrase itself is a slurred version of the phrase \"What's up?\".\nThe commercials were based on a short film, entitled \"True\", written and directed by Charles Stone III, that featured Stone and several of his childhood friends – Fred Thomas, Paul Williams, Terry Williams, Jimmy \"Puerto Rock\" Perez and Kevin Lofton. The characters sat around talking on the phone and saying \"whassup?\" to one another in a comical way. The short was popular at a number of film festivals around the country and eventually caught the attention of creative director Vinny Warren and art director Chuck Taylor at the Chicago-based ad agency DDB, who took the idea to August A. Busch IV, vice president of Anheuser-Busch, and signed Stone to direct Budweiser TV commercials based on the film. Scott Martin Brooks won the role of Dookie when Kevin Lofton declined to audition.\n\n\"Whassup?\" won the Cannes Grand Prix award and the Grand Clio award, among others. In May 2006, the campaign was inducted into the CLIO Hall of Fame.\n\nEight years later, Stone made another version of the ad with the same cast, called \"Wassup 2008\". The 2-minute short film was heavily critical of the presidency of George W. Bush and was a clear endorsement of the presidential campaign of Barack Obama. The 2008 video was nominated for the Favorite User Generated Video award at the 35th People's Choice Awards.\n\nThe film \"Scary Movie\" (2000) parodied the ad in one scene.\n\nIn 2001, the British music duo Shaft released a song and video titled \"Wassuup!\" under the name Da Muttz, referencing the Budweiser ad, set to a sample of \"U Can't Touch This\" by MC Hammer (which, in turn, sampled Rick James' \"Super Freak\"). It reached number 11 on the UK Singles Chart, and was also a hit on charts across Europe and in Australia.\n\nProfessional wrestling tag team The Dudley Boyz incorporated part of the ad as one of their signature moves. D-Von would climb to the top rope while Bubba Ray held an opponent's legs apart, before they both stuck out their tongues and did the Whassup head shake. D-Von would then execute a diving headbutt to the crotch of the opponent.\n\n\"The Simpsons\" episodes \"The Bart Wants What It Wants\" (2002) and \"See Homer Run\" (2005) both feature the character Milhouse using the expression in an attempt to be cool.\n\nThe \"Greg the Bunny\" episode \"Father and Son Reunion\" (2002) featured the character Gil trying to bond with his son Jimmy. Gil thinks all young people use the expression to be cool. They go out together along with Greg the Bunny and Gil shouts the expression at everyone they meet, much to the embarrassment of Jimmy.\n\nIn the 2003 \"Friends\" episode \"The One With Phoebe's Rats\", Ross enters Monica and Chandler's apartment saying \"Whassup\" trying to imitate the commercial, to which Chandler replies, \"Seriously dude, three years ago!\"\n\n\"The Office\" episode \"Pilot\" has Michael Scott, Jim, and Dwight exchanging the expression with each other. Jim wryly tells the camera that Scott is still doing it constantly, seven years after the ad was popular.\n\nThe \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\" episode \"Multiple Meat\" (2010) had Frylock using the expression to Master Shake and when the latter does not react to it he asks \"I'm sorry is that out now?\"\n\nThe ad is also parodied in four episodes of the web series \"The Annoying Orange\".\n\nThe band Falling in Reverse parodied the ad in the music video of the song \"Good Girls, Bad Guys\" (2011).\n\nIn the film \"Central Intelligence\" (2016), Bob Stone sends Calvin Joyner a video clip of the ad and asks, \"remember those commercials?\"\n\nIn the \"How I Met Your Mother\" episode \"Trilogy Time\" Barney Stinson uses the expression in supposed \"dream\" futures.\n\nIn Season 1, Episode 8 of Santa Clarita Diet, Drew Barrymore’s character says \"Whassup?\" to a “dead” undead character Loki, played by DeObia Oparei.\n\nIn the film \"Ant-Man and the Wasp\" (2018) Luis pulls up next to Scott and says it multiple times.\n\nJune 2018, Burger King and Budweiser partnered to create a new Whassup? commercial.\n"}
