{"id": "3523105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3523105", "title": "Acta Apostolicae Sedis", "text": "Acta Apostolicae Sedis\n\nActa Apostolicae Sedis (Latin for \"Register of the Apostolic See\"), often cited as AAS, is the official gazette of the Holy See, appearing about twelve times a year. It was established by Pope Pius X on 29 September 1908 with the decree \"Promulgandi Pontificias Constitutiones\", and publication began in January 1909. It contains all the principal decrees, encyclical letters, decisions of Roman congregations, and notices of ecclesiastical appointments. The laws contained in it are to be considered promulgated when published, and effective three months from date of issue, unless a shorter or longer time is specified in the law.\nIt replaced a similar publication that had existed since 1865, under the title of \"Acta Sanctae Sedis\". Though not designated as the official means of promulgating laws of the Holy See, this was on 23 May 1904 declared an organ of the Holy See to the extent that all documents printed in it were considered \"authentic and official\". As indicated above, the \"Acta Sanctae Sedis\" ceased publication four years later.\n\n\"Acta Apostolicae Sedis\" is published in Latin.\n\nSince 1929, \"Acta Apostolicae Sedis\" carries a supplement in Italian, called \"Supplemento per le leggi e disposizioni dello Stato della Città del Vaticano\", containing laws and regulations of Vatican City, the city-state founded in that year. In accordance with paragraph 2 of the \"Legge sulle fonti del diritto\" of 7 June 1929, the laws of the state are promulgated by being included in this supplement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11014153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11014153", "title": "Aristotle's Masterpiece", "text": "Aristotle's Masterpiece\n\nAristotle's Masterpiece, also known as The Works of Aristotle, the Famous Philosopher, is a sex manual and a midwifery book that was popular in England from the early modern period through to the 19th century. It was first published in 1684 and written by an unknown author who falsely claimed to be Aristotle. As a consequence the author is now described as a Pseudo-Aristotle, the collective name for unidentified authors who masqueraded as Aristotle. It is claimed that the book was banned in Britain until the 1960s, although there was no provision in the UK for \"banning\" books as such. However reputable publishers and booksellers might have been cautious about vending \"Aristotle's Masterpiece\", at least in the wake of the 1857 Obscene Publications Act.\n\nAfter Nicholas Culpeper's \"Directory for Midwives\" had been published in 1651, other writers and booksellers sought to emulate its great success. \"Aristotle's Masterpiece\" was among the two dozen works in the genre which were published in the following decades. This was in sharp contrast to the three titles which had been published on the subject in the previous century. Through the seventeenth and eighteenth century, the work was published in three different versions in 9, 20 and 78 editions respectively. It was probably the most widely reprinted book on a medical subject in the eighteenth and early nineteenth century.\n\nThe first version borrowed most of its content from two earlier works, the \"Secret Miracles of Nature\" by Levinus Lemnius and the anonymous \"Complete Midwives Practice Enlarged\". The latter had been a successful work by itself, coming second only to Culpeper's \"Directory for Midwives\" in number of seventeenth century editions.\n\nA second version was released by publisher Benjamin Harris in 1697. The first half contained most of the first version and the second half was borrowed from John Sadler's \"A Sick Women's Private Looking-Glas\", which was published in 1636. The third version was published around 1710 was more different from the previous versions, but again copied material from other works on the subject. These included the \"Directory for Midwives\", John Pechey's 1698 version of the \"Compleate Midwive's Practice Enlarged\" and other popular books on sex and reproduction available at the time.\n\nThe third version was still printed and sold to a general audience in the early twentieth century. It remained unchanged from the eighteenth century editions because modern theory on sexuality had not yet been conceived. Because the book was based on the ancient theory of humorism it provided some outdated information, in particular on the home remedies it prescribed. Nevertheless, it was in fact more accurate and less harmful than some popular works on sexuality dating from the late nineteenth century.\n\nThe title of the work was possibly chosen because Aristotle was seen as a sex expert in early modern England. Another popular pseudo-Aristotelian text which covered sex and reproduction, \"Aristotle's Problems\" (1595), had been responsible for this reputation. The real Aristotle had also written works about the reproduction of animals (such as \"History of Animals\" and \"Generation of Animals\") and was considered an authority on scientific matters in general.\n\nThe third version is divided in two parts. The first part covers anatomy, sexual intercourse and marriage. The second part was intended for married women and explains pregnancy and midwifery.\n\nThe first part starts with a description of the male and female sex organs in the first chapter. The second chapter advocates sexual intercourse in monogamous relationships and warns against polygamy and adultery because it is forbidden by Christian doctrine. It finishes with an explanation of when the reproductive age begins and ends. The third chapter explores virginity. It correctly states that a torn hymen does not necessarily mean a woman is not a virgin.\n\nThe second part continues with the process of fertilisation, pregnancy and how the sex of the fetus can be determined. The second chapter provides advice on how women can become pregnant. The third chapter describes the progress of pregnancy. Failure of the pregnancy, infertility and its causes are the subject of the fourth chapter. The part ends with a chapter on things women should do and avoid during their pregnancy.\n\n"}
{"id": "100254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100254", "title": "Arjuna", "text": "Arjuna\n\nArjuna (in Devanagari: अर्जुन \"\") is the main central character of the ancient Indian epic \"Mahabharata\" and plays a key role in the Bhagavad Gita alongside Krishna. It is believed that Arjuna was best archer in the world at their time. Arjuna was the son of \"Indra\", the king of the celestials, born of \"Kunti\", the first wife of King \"Pandu\" in the \"Kuru Kingdom\". In a previous birth he was a saint named \"Nara\" who was the lifelong companion of another saint \"Narayana\" an incarnation of Lord Vishnu who took rebirth as Lord Krishna. He was the third of the Pandava brothers and was married to Draupadi, Ulupi, Chitrāngadā and Subhadra (Krishna's and Balarama's sister) at different times. His children included Srutakarma, Iravan, Babruvahana, and Abhimanyu.\n\nThe name Arjuna has among its meanings \"white\", \"clear\" and \"silver\".\n\nArjuna's birth is most celebrated one and he was born 9 months after the birth of krishna. A prophesy is said about his birth and so many gods attended to see him.\n\nAfter the death of Pandu (and Madri's subsequent sati), the Pandavas and their mother lived in Hastinapura, where they were brought up together with their cousins, the Kaurava brothers. Along with his brothers, Arjuna was trained in religion, science, administration and military arts by Bhishma, their granduncle.\n\nOne day, when the princes were playing a game, they lost their ball in a well. When the rest of the children gave up the ball as being lost, Arjuna stayed behind trying to get it. A stranger came by and extracted the ball for him by making a chain of \"sarkanda\" (a wild grass). When an astonished Arjuna related the story to Bhishma, Bhishma realised that the stranger was none other than Drona. Bhishma asked Drona to become the Kuru princes' teacher. Seeking refuge from Panchala, Drona agreed. Many asuras were killed by him.\n\nUnder Drona's tutelage, the Kauravas and the Pandavas, along with the princes of Hastinapura's allies and vassals, learned weaponry. Arjuna became Drona's favorite and most accomplished pupil; specifically, he became a master in using the bow and the arrow. In a famous incident, Drona deemed that out of all his students, even his own son Ashwatthama, none but Arjuna had the steadfast focus to shoot the eye of a bird on a tree; he was proven right.\nOne day, on being questioned by Ashwatthama; why was Drona being partial to Arjuna, Drona replied Arjuna that he was not being partial to any-one but his favourite was Arjuna. His intention was very clear that he loved Arjuna but didn't ill-treat anyone. He ordered Ashwatthama to gather all of his students including Ashwatthama to assemble at near by lake that evening. they did as Drona told. Drona was taking bath; suddenly a crocodile appeared attacking Drona. Nobody except Arjuna were dare to enter into lake. Arjuna then jumped into the lake & began attacking the mighty crocodile with bare hands. Suddenly crocodile disappeared. Drona told everyone that the crocodile was just illusion and created by himself to test all the princes & Ashwatthama. Drona also scolded the rest that they were not ready to save their teacher except Arjuna. Thus Drona proudly declared that Arjuna was his favourite and pet student.\n\nPandavas secretly went from Varnavrat after saving themselves from an evil plan of Duryodhana, Shakuni and Karna. Still in hiding, the Pandavas disguised themselves as brahmins and attended the Swayamvara of Panchala princess Draupadi. Out of all of the great kings and other Kaurava princes, only Arjuna was able to do the established challenge. The test is to lift, string, and fire Pinakin to pierce the eye of a golden fish whilst only looking at its reflection; Drupada had designed this test with Arjuna in mind. Like many other contenders Karna & Shalya also failed to lift the bow and sting it. At last Arjuna came forward and lifted his bow with just one hand and hit the target. Hence, he won Draupadi. Later Karna attacked Arjuna out of jealousy but Arjuna easily defeated him then Karna asked about his real identity, Arjuna smiled and said that he was a Brahmin. Then Karna praised him by comparing him with Lord Vishnu. Arjuna threatened to kill Karna which made Karna flee from battlefield.\nWhen the brothers returned with Draupadi, Pandavas joked to his mother that they had brought alms. Dismissively, and without looking because she was preoccupied, Kunti asked him to share it with his brothers. Holding his mother's orders as a divine command, he requested his elder brother to accept Draupadi. Draupadi had to marry all five of the Pandavas. Her five sons, one from each of the Pandava brothers, are known as the Upapandavas. Srutakarma is the son of Arjuna.\n\nAt this point in the Mahabharata, the Pandavas revealed that they were alive. With both Duryodhana and Yudhishthira being crown princes, tensions were high. Under Bhishma's advice, the kingdom is split, with the Kauravas getting Hastinapur and the Pandavas getting Khandavaprastha. Khandavaprastha, however, was an extremely underdeveloped land and had infertile soil, requiring extensive tilling, so the Pandavas set to work rebuilding the land by burning a thousand acres of forest. Their cousins Krishna and Balarama helped them.\n\nThe friendship bond of Lord Krishna and Arjuna is the most celebrated bond in Hindu mythology followed by the bond of Lord Rama and Lord Hanuman. According to Mahabharata, Arjuna was the incarnation of Lord Nara who was the best friend of Lord Vishnu and along with Nara, Lord Vishnu defeated all the demons after the churning of Ocean Samudra Manthan. According to Lord Shiva, Nara and Lord Vishnu holds the whole universe and incarnates in every Yuga to end the evil and establish righteousness. The love of Lord Krishna for Arjuna is evident from Adi Parva where after the fight in Khandava forest instead of asking any weapon or power Lord Krishna asked Indra that his friendship with Arjuna will remain forever when the latter asked Lord Krishna to ask for a boon. Lord Krishna also described his love for Arjuna in Vana Parva by saying that whoever will hate Arjuna will hate Lord Krishna and whoever will follow Arjuna will follow Lord Krishna. He even said that nobody in the whole world is dearer to him than Arjuna and he can sacrifice anything including his sons, wives and citizens just for the sake of Arjuna. During his final conversation with his father Vasudeva he told him that he wants Arjuna to perform his last rites and also said that Lord Krishna is Arjuna and Arjuna is Lord Krishna. Such was the greatness of Arjuna that the supreme God Lord Krishna was ready to sacrifice anything for him.\n\nThe story, this was the first time Arjuna meets Krishna. In any case, Khandavaprastha was where Arjuna and Krishna's friendship was truly forged. Once when roaming in the Khandava Vana, Arjuna and Krishna met the god of fire, Agni. Agni was in great hunger and needed to burn down the entire Khandava Vana to quench his hunger. But Takshaka, the serpent-king lived in the same forest and was a friend of Indra's. So the latter brought down heavy rains to thwart Agni's plans to burn the woods. Agni requested Krishna and Arjuna to help him realise his goal.\n\nArjuna asked Agni for Gandiva as normal bows were not capable to bear the strength of his arms. The three of them then invoked Varuna, the God of the oceans, who blessed Arjuna with the Gandiva – the agni-moon bow created by Brahma. In this way, Arjuna came into possession of his famous bow. Agni also gave Arjuna an incandescent chariot with four horses yoked, and bearing a flag that would one-day be occupied by celestial apes of Vishwkarma.Arjuna also obtained his famous conch.\n\nWith Krishna using the Sudarshana Chakra Arjuna and Krishna waged a successful battle against Indra and helped Agni burn down the entire Khandava Vana. Indra's pride in Arjuna's success overcame his anger, and he bestowed greater powers on him. At last all gods, demons and snakes got defeated by Arjuna at this Khandava war.\n\nIn their demolition of Khandava, Krishna and Arjuna had saved one demon, Mayasura to build their palace. Thus owing Arjuna a favor, and after being so directed by Krishna, Mayasura said that he would build a palace for Yudhishtra. As Mayasura was a great architect of the Asuras, he soon constructed the Maya assembly hall – a gigantic palace for the Pandavas, filled with ancient books, artifacts, and jewels. This hall was famous for visual illusions. Thus, Khandavaprastha was renamed Indraprastha.\n\nArjuna violated Yudhishthira and Draupadi's privacy while they were playing the game of dice, as he had left the Gandiva in their room. Despite the understanding of all and being forgiven by both Yudhishthira and Draupadi, Arjuna accepted the punishment agreed with Narada and set off on a twelve-year tirtha-yatra. According to Narada, Arjuna must retire to forest and pass his days as Brahmacharin for 12 years, so he did.\n\nOne day Arjuna was taking bath in nearby Ganga river flow. Suddenly a current in the river pulled down Arjuna. He fell through regions and reached a place. As soon as he opened eyes, he saw a beautiful woman standing in front of him. The woman introduced herself as Ulupi-the princess of Nagaloka. She also told Arjuna that the current was created by her in order to drag Arjuna to her land because she loved Arjuna very much as Arjuna was the greatest archer and extreme handsome person. Arjuna explained his situation. Ulupi told him that she knew everything. Soon Ulupi married Arjuna and he set-out to finish his pilgrimage. A son, namely Iravan was produced as the union of Arjuna and Ulupi.\n\nArjuna visited other Tirthas in India, including Kalinga and the ashrams of the Saptarishis, Agastya, Vasishta and Bhrigu. He reached the palace of Manipur. Here he met King Chitravahana's daughter, Chitrāngadā. After seeing the beauty of Chitrāngadā, Arjuna fell in love with her and asked the king to let them marry. The king accepted Arjuna's proposal because Arjuna was extremely handsome, intelligent and attractive. According to the customs of Manipura the son of the princess would become the King of Manipura. It was mutual benefit for Arjuna since Draupadi didn’t want other woman equal to queen in Indraprastha. Soon a son was born to them namely Babruvahana.\n\nArjuna, after covering various shrines, arrived at Rameshwaram in the south. An age ago, Rama had established a Shivalinga here, seeking the blessings of Shiva before commencing his journey to Lanka to rescue his wife Sita. His army of monkeys and bears had constructed a bridge of stones and trees across the vast ocean. Arjuna gazed at the remains of this bridge that had survived. A thought struck him and he wondered aloud, \"Why on Earth did a great archer like Rama have to rely on creatures like monkeys and bears to build a bridge? Why couldn't he have instead bridged the distance with arrows?\" His fellow pilgrims shook their heads, clearly at a loss for an answer. Then, a small monkey who had been following the company for quite some distance replied Arjuna that Stalwarts like Sugreeva, Nala, Neela, Angada and Hanuman adorned their ranks. No bridge of arrows could have withstood their weight. The monkey added \"Why, no bridge of arrows could even withstand my weight, puny as I am!\" Arjuna was quick to take up what he perceived as an implied challenge. \"Let us have a wager. I shall lay down a bridge of arrows. I am willing to burn myself if it fails to bear your weight.\" The monkey agreed. Arjuna, taking the aid of his famed quiver of inexhaustible arrows, laid down a bridge across the ocean. The monkey jumped onto it and no sooner had he walked ten paces than the bridge collapsed. Arjuna helped the monkey out of the water and asked for another attempt. The monkey agreed. Arjuna constructed another bridge, this time laying his arrows closer to each other, and asked the monkey to try again. The monkey set out on the bridge in the direction of the island of Lanka yet again but the bridge collapsed. Arjuna was ashamed of himself. Not wasting any more time, he prepared a pyre and was about to step into it and give up his life, in accordance with the terms of the wager when a youth held him back and stopped him. \"What were you about to do, o mighty prince?\", asked the boy, surprised. \"I was given a challenge and I failed. I do not wish to continue with this life now that I have faced such great shame\", replied Arjuna. The boy was aghast. \"But was there an adjudicator? Who was there to see if the challenger was playing fair? A contest without a judge is meaningless. Pray construct another bridge and this time, I shall be the judge.\" Neither Arjuna, nor the monkey could refute the boy's argument and so they got ready for a third round. Infused with some confidence, Arjuna built a third bridge, using every bit of his ingenuity. \"There! Try crossing it now\", he said to the monkey. The monkey happily obliged. He walked on, but the bridge was still solid. \"He must have locked the arrows together better this time\", thought the monkey to himself. He began to jump on the bridge but it did not collapse. It stayed strong. The monkey was surprised. \"Let me take on the form I took while leaping across the ocean\", he thought and lo! He was large as a mountain now. Arjuna was awestruck when he saw that his challenger was none other than the great Hanuman himself. He bowed his head in reverence, realizing that sooner or later his bridge would succumb to the strength of the great monkey. He was humbled. The bridge did not collapse. Not even under the weight of the now gigantic Hanuman. Arjuna was nonplussed. He could not comprehend what was happening. There seemed to be no logical explanation as to why the bridge hadn't broken yet. Apparently, Hanuman couldn't fathom things either. He began jumping on the bridge but it still wouldn't yield. All the while the boy was smiling. In a moment of enlightenment, it struck both participants of the contest that their adjudicator was no ordinary boy. Arjuna and Hanuman fell at his feet and then Vishnu was standing before them. \"I am Rama, and I am Krishna. I protected your bridge from collapsing, Arjuna. Vanity and pride undo the best of men. Dear Hanuman, you should have known better than to humiliate Arjuna thus. He is a fine warrior, one of the best of his times. How could you drive him into giving up his life?\" Arjuna and Hanuman sought the Lord's forgiveness and He blessed them. \"As an act of remorse, I shall stabilize and protect your chariot in the great battle that is imminent.\", said Hanuman. \"So be it. You shall be present on the banner of Arjuna's chariot when he rides out to do battle in the great war of his age that is to come.\"\n\nArjuna moved to other Tirthas, including the southern regions in Kerala. Finally he reached Dwarka, the place where his cousin Krishna resided. Arjuna had, in his childhood, heard about Krishna's sister, Subhadra. Krishna, wishing to further tie their families, knew of Arjuna's visit and devised a plan to arrange their meeting. Accordingly, Arjuna disguised himself as a Yati and stayed at Krishna's palace. Arjuna was attracted to Subhadra and desired to marry her, Krishna understood Arjuna's intention and advised him to kidnap Subhadra then Arjuna kidnapped Subhadra and married with her. After this Balarama became furious upon learning of the abduction but was pacified by Vasudeva, his father, because Lord Krishna knew that whole Dwarka warriors can not defeat Arjuna alone as Arjun was invicible and undefeatable in battle. The couple stayed in Dwaraka for a year, and then another year in Pushkar. However, Draupadi had made it clear that no other Pandava wife would be allowed to stay in her city, so Arjuna, as Krishna had advised, tricked Draupadi into meeting Subhadra as a milkmaid. Draupadi realized she had been tricked, but she forgave Subhadra and let her stay in Indraprastha, allowing her to keep company with Arjuna in the four years when he was not with Draupadi. In due course, the union of Arjuna and Subhadra produced a son, Abhimanyu.\n\nGaya, a Gandharva king, while moving across the skies, spits the pan down his divine plane. It falls into the open palms of Sri Krishna, offering prayers to Sun god Surya. Sri Krishna gets very angry and vows to kill him. Gaya is a great devotee of Krishna. Krishna could not take back his vow. Narada advises Gaya to approach Arjuna and first seek his assurance of protecting him, before revealing about the person set to take his life. As per Narada's advice, the king takes Arjuna's promise for his protection before revealing Krishna's vow to kill him. Arjuna, though surprised, sticks to his word to Gaya. Both Arjuna and Krishna feel very sad about the situation that each of them is going to fight against the most beloved ones. Any number of dialogues between both sides makes no dent in the situation. Intervention of Subhadra, Narada, Rukmini, Satyabhama and others fail resulting in direct combat.\nWar breaks-out and Krishna v/s Arjuna archery-duel starts. Both of them go into fierce fight. The weapons and astras used by both cause heavy destruction. Because Krishna had Kodanda and Arjuna had Gandiva. Both are undefeatable and none of them gets injured. Finally Krishna uses Sudarshana chakra & Arjuna uses Brahmastra. Lord Shiva appears before them and asks them to withdraw their respective destructive weapons to prevent disaster to the world. Krishna explained the intention behind fighting against Arjuna. Many of people including Balarama complained that Krishna was partial to Pandavas. Through this he proved that he was not partial to any-one but to justice. Also he meant that Krishna & Arjuna were equal & the same. He meant that Pandavas were right followers of justice, Arjuna being the most sincere person and that's the reason why he loved them and especially Arjuna very much.\n\nArjuna was sent south by Yudhishthira to subjugate kingdoms for the Rajasuya Yagya, so that he could be crowned Emperor of Indraprastha. The Mahabharata mentions several kingdoms to the north of Indraprastha which were conquered (or otherwise peacefully bent-the-knee) by Arjuna. In this conquest Arjuna had conquered Northern kurus which was the territory of Lord Indra, It was really the difficult feats for any warrior but Arjuna easily achieved many feats in Rajasuya conquest.\n\nAfter Yudhishthira succumbed to Shakuni's challenge in the game of dice, the Pandavas were forced to be in exile for 13 years, which included one year in anonymity.\n\nAfter Pandavas lost in dice game and went on for exile, Duryodhana planned to humiliate Pandavas by showing them the luxuries enjoyed by all Kauravas and Karna. So all of them had set to forest where Pandavas were living. In the course of Journey Duryodhana abducted a lady without knowing that she was a Gandharva. Then Gandharvas attacked entire Kauravas and Karna. Karna tried to run away from battle after getting defeated by Chitrasena, At last Gandharvas captured all the Kauravas and Karna. On knowing this Yudhishtira asks Arjuna to free them since its Hastinapur which would be insulted. Arjuna followed his eldest brother’s order and defeated Chitrasena. During the fight with Chitrasena, Arjuna had performed extremely impossible feats as he killed 10 lakh Gandharvas(4.5 akshouni) in single shot by using Agneyastra. Apart from Arjuna, no warrior ever achieved this impossible feats even in dream. Immediately Chitrasena granted Sammohana astra to Arjuna after being impressed by Arjuna's bravery & warrior skills.\n\nAfter the battle at Khandava Indra had promised Arjuna to give him all his weapons as a boon for matching him in battle with the requirement that Shiva is pleased with him. Following the advice of Yudhishtira to go on a meditation or \"tapasya\" to attain this divine weapon, Arjuna left his brothers for a penance.\n\nArjuna traveled for a while before reaching the mountain Indra keeladri, Vijayawada. Here he sat in meditation in the name of Lord Shiva. Arjuna managed to please Lord Shiva by his severe penance in just months because his penance generated so much intense heat that was unbearable to all living creatures of earth which ultimately forced Lord Shiva to come to earth. Shiva appeared soon enough in the guise of a hunter, who challenged Arjuna to a fight. In that fierce battle even 8 forms of Lord Shiva failed to defeat Arjuna, At last Arjuna gratified Mahadeva in battle by showing his prowess then Hunter(Shiva) transformed himself to show his real avatar and blessed Arjuna with the Pashupatastra. Shiva lectures Arjuna on the abilities of the weapon, as well as the judgement he must use while wielding it. It is said that, apart from Lord Shiva and Arjuna no one possessed Pasupata weapon which was capable to destroy whole world.\n\nAfter Shiva left, the Lokapalas appeared before Arjuna and then Kubera, Yama, and Varuna also blessed each of their potent weapons to Arjuna. Indra then invited his son to his palace in heaven.\n\nArjuna was amazed at the splendor of his father's palace at Amaravati. Dancers like Urvashi, Tilottama, Rambha and Menaka entertained him. There was a huge banquet serving different varieties of heavenly dishes. Arjuna learnt song and dance from the Gandharva, Chitrasena and Indra himself taught him all the divine weapons and also gave him his Vajra. All other divine gods also gave their celestial astras to Arjuna.\n\nArjuna got the opportunity to test his skill when Indra asked him to defeat his enemy as the price of his training. Arjuna was taken to the palace of the Nivata-kavachas, a tribe of Asuras who had a magnificent palace under the oceans. Arjuna used the Mohini-astra and the Madhava-astra to demolish these asuras.\n\nHe was also taken to Hiranyapura, a palace in the sky created by a witch Puloma and his asura tribe of the Kalakanjas. Here Arjuna uses the Raudra-astra and annihilates the demons.\n\nAlong with his brothers, Arjuna spent his last year of exile in the kingdom of Matsya. This is the place where Urvashi's curse is implemented and Arjuna becomes a eunuch called Brihannala (within themselves Pandavas called him Vijaya). At the palace, he teaches song and dance, qualities he had learnt from Chitrasena [King of the Gandharvas in Devalok], to the King Virata's daughter, Uttarā. Later, Arjuna arranges for Uttara to become his daughter-in-law by marrying his son Abhimanyu to her. At the same time, he prevents Subhadra from marrying Abhimanyu to Balarama's daughter Vatsala, as the Kurus find marriages between cousins taboo. But Arjuna and Subhadra are cousins too since Kunti (Arjun's Mother) and Vasudeva (Subhadra's father) are brother and sister.\n\nHearing about the death of Kichaka, Duryodhana surmises that the Pandavas were hiding in Matsya. A host of Kaurava warriors attack Virata, presumably to steal their cattle, but in reality, desiring to pierce the Pandavas' veil of anonymity. Full of bravado, Virata's son Uttar attempts to take on the army by himself while the rest of the Matsya army has been lured away to fight Susharma and the Trigartas. As suggested by Draupadi, Uttar takes Brihannala with him, as his charioteer. When he sees the Kaurava army, Uttar loses his nerve and attempts to flee. There, Arjuna reveals his identity and those of his brothers'. Switching places with Uttar, Arjuna takes up the Gandiva and Devadatta. Eager to defend the land that had given him refuge, Arjuna engaged the legion of Kaurava warriors. All the warriors including Bhisma, Drona, Karna, Kripa and Ashwthama together attacked Arjuna to kill him but Arjuna defeated all of them multiple times.\n\nArjuna saved Matsya kingdom from Kurus and brought back all the cattle, sheep etc. As a gratitude Virata king offered his daughter to Arjuna. Arjuna replied Virata king gently that he had taught dance to Uttara. So he was a teacher to Uttara, a teacher treat a student as a child but not as a spouse. Arjuna suggested Virata King to marry Uttara to his son Abhimanyu. Virata king was very much pleased with this offer. In some versions, it is also said that Abhimanyu and Uttara were already in love as Abhimanyu already met Uttara while he was in search of his parents who were in exile. This was noticed by Draupadi and Yudhishtira. Everybody in Dwaraka agreed Arjuna's proposal and soon Balarama with his wife; Krishna with Rukmini; Arjuna, Subhadra and Abhimanyu reached Matsya kingdom. Abhimanyu married Uttara very soon; four months before the commencement of the war. Before the war on one day; Krishna took a promise from Arjuna that Arjuna won't use any divine weapons obtained in heaven. Thus Arjuna fought war without using celestial weapons granted by Lord Indra and other divine gods.\n\nAs the battle draws close, Arjuna is overcome with self-doubt about the righteousness of the war against his own kith and kin. He is distraught at the thought of having to fight with his friends and family such as his dear teacher, Drona and grandsire Bhishma. It was then that Krishna took charge and explained the necessity and inevitability of the war to Arjuna. This conversation is a key part of the Mahabharata known as Bhagavad gita, and is considered as a holy scripture of Hinduism.\n\nArjuna plays the role of the reader in the Bhagavad Gita. As Krishna dispenses the advice, Arjuna asks the questions.The Bhagavad Gita primarily takes the form of philosophical dialogue between Prince Arjuna and Krishna.\n\nArjuna was a key Pandava warrior and played a huge role in the Pandava victory in the Kurukshetra war. Lord Hanuman stayed on Arjuna’s chariot flag.\n\nSome of the crucial battles fought by Arjuna are as follows:\n\nAfter the conclusion of the war, the Pandavas take charge of Hastinapura, the undivided realm of their ancestors. Yudhishira appointed Arjuna as the Yuvaraj of Hastinapura.\nYudhishthira decided to hold the Ashvamedha Yagna, or \"horse sacrifice\", to grant them the title of \"Chakravarti\" (\"Emperor\"). Arjuna led the armed forces which followed the horse around its random wanderings. He received the submission of many kings, either without or following an armed confrontation. He was thus instrumental in the expansion of the Pandava domains. Arjuna was the only warrior who alone conquered the whole world in Mahabharat, Apart from Arjuna, no warrior ever achieved this feat. In the Ashvamedha Yagna, the horse was stopped by Babruvahana. He defeated Bhima and killed Vrishaketu without knowing that they are his relatives and he was the son of Arjuna. Arjuna fought with Babruvahana and went on upper hand since Arjuna was invincible. Arjuna defeated Babruvahana & went to collect his horse. Babruvahana, out of guilt, used the divine weapon (given by Goddess river Ganga) to kill Arjuna when Arjuna was unarmed. This divine weapon would kill any person even monstrous demons. Soon Arjuna got killed and the news reached Chitrāngadā. She scolded him and revealed the truth that he was the son of Arjuna. With the help of Ulupi, Arjuna’s life was restored by a gem called Nagamani. Arjuna was very impressed with his son’s bravery.\n\nArjuna built the Aranmula Parthasarathy Temple during his conquest in South India. Aranmula Parthasarathy Temple is one of the \"Divya Desams\", the 108 temples of Vishnu revered by the 12 poet saints, or Alwars located near Aranmula, a village in Pathanamthitta District, Kerala, South India.\n\nAfter Sri Krishna left his mortal body, Arjuna took the citizens of Dwaraka, including 16,100 wives of Krishna, to Indraprastha. On the way, they were attacked by a group of bandits. Arjuna desisted fighting seeing the law of time.\n\nUpon the onset of the Kali yuga and acting on the advice of Vyasa, Arjuna and other Pandavas retired, leaving the throne to their only descendant to survive the war of Kurukshetra, Arjuna's grandson Parikshit. Giving up all their belongings and ties, the Pandavas, accompanied by a dog, made their final journey of pilgrimage to the Himalayas. It is also to be noted that the listener of the Mahabharata is Janamejaya, Parikshit's son.\n\nExcept for Yudhishthira, all of the Pandavas grew weak and died before reaching heaven (only Yudhishthira is allowed to keep his mortal body). Arjuna was the fourth one to fall after Draupadi, Sahadeva and Nakula. When Bhima asks Yudhishthira why Arjuna isn't permitted the same, the reason given is Arjuna's over confidence in his skills. Draupadi also falls because while she claimed to love all the Pandavas equally, she had a soft spot for Arjuna . Bhima was the fifth to fall after Arjuna, Nakula, and Sahadeva. The reason why Bhima fell is because he enjoyed the sufferings of other people. People may cause suffering sometimes, but not allowed to enjoy them. Nakula fell because he liked his appearance a lot instead of being royal. \n\nArjuna is considered as 22th avtar of Lord Vishnu in chaubis avtar, a composition in Dasam Granth traditionally and historically attributed to Guru Gobind Singh.\n\nArjuna is a popular choice of name for a Hindu male child in the Indian subcontinent. As told in the verses in Harivamsha or Harivamsha Purana, the name Arjuna is cursed by the sage Parashurama. After the defeat of the mighty and evil king Kartavirya Arjuna or otherwise called Sahasra Arjuna, Sage Parashurama pronounced the curse that whoever holds the name \"Arjuna\" will never become a king and always be a servant of others.\n\nArjuna's extraordinary talents and skills have made him a common name in popular culture.\n\n\nThere have been a serial and a film based on Arjuna's life and exploits.\n\nAdditionally, the protagonist in Steven Pressfield's book \"The Legend of Bagger Vance\", Rannulph Junuh, is based in part on Arjuna (R. Junuh).\n\nArjuna is also an Archer class Servant in the mobile game \"Fate/Grand Order\". He is a minor antagonist in the E Pluribus Unum story chapter, where he wishes to fight Karna again.\n\nIn B.R.Chopra's Mahabharat, Arjuna's role is played by Arjun (Firoz Khan).\n\nIn 2013 Mahabharat television series, Arjuna is portrayed by Shaheer Sheikh.\n\nMani Ratnam's 1991 blockbuster Thalapathi was loosely based on the Mahabharata. In the film, Arvind Swamy's character was loosely based on Arjuna.\n\nIn Dharmakshetra 2014, actor Ankit Arora portrayed Arjuna.\n\nIn 2015 Sony TV serial Suryaputra Karn, actor Navi bhangu played the role of Arjuna.\n\nIn Nagarjuna 2015 serial, Rahul Sharma (actor) played Arjuna.\n"}
{"id": "50342320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50342320", "title": "Armorial Wijnbergen", "text": "Armorial Wijnbergen\n\nThe Armorial Wijnbergen, also known as the Wijnbergen Roll, is a medieval French roll of arms. \nIt is divided into two parts; the first, dated c. 1265–1270 has 256 coats of arms of the vassals of Louis IX of France (d. 1270) in the Île-de-France; the second part, dated c. 1280, has 1,056 coats of arms (for a total of 1,312) of the vassals of Philip III of France (r. 1270–1285) in his fiefs in the North of France, the Netherlands and the Rhineland.\n\nThe armorial is named for the Wijnbergen family, in whose possession it was acquired by the Royal Dutch Society for Genealogy and Heraldry. Its current whereabouts are unknown, but a copy is held in the Royal Library in Brussels (Collection Goethals, ms. 2569).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43451652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43451652", "title": "Bloody Letter", "text": "Bloody Letter\n\nThe Bloody Letter () is a letter written by Bulgarian revolutionary Todor Kableshkov which is symbolically accepted to be the start of the anti-Ottoman April Uprising of 1876.\n\nKableshkov writes this letter upon proclaiming the revolt in his home city of Koprivshtitsa and addresses it to the revolutionary committee of Panagyurishte and specifically to Georgi Benkovski. The letter's name comes from the fact that it is signed with the blood of a local Ottoman governor (\"müdür\"), shortly after he was killed by revolutionary Georgi Tihanek. It was transported by 19-year-old Georgi Salchev for a record time of 2 hours, having his horse passing out just before reaching Panagyurishte because of the strain.\n\nAccording to \"Memoirs of the Bulgarian Uprisings\" by Zahari Stoyanov, the letter's contents were:\nBrothers!\n\nYesterday Neceb Aga arrived in our village from Plovdiv, and asked to imprison some people, including me. When I heard about your decision, made at the Council of Oborishte, I called up some brave men and after we got armed, we headed towards the konak and attacked it, killing the müdür and some policemen... Now, as I am writing this letter, the flag is waving before the konak, rifles shoot and the church bells echo simultaneously with them, men are kissing one another on the streets... If you, brothers, happen to be true patriots and apostles of Freedom, then do follow our example in Panagyurishte...\n\nKoprivshtitsa, 20th April (old style) 1876\nT. Kableshkov\n\nI was witness as all events mentioned above in Todor's letter happened. Leaving for Klisura, to do the same.\n\nN. Karadzhov\n"}
{"id": "22814787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22814787", "title": "Castleton Jail", "text": "Castleton Jail\n\nThe Castleton Jail is an exhibit building located at the Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, Vermont, USA. Constructed entirely of slate, it was originally built in 1890 in Castleton, Vermont, where it operated for over fifty years.\n\nCastleton was chartered in 1761. The charter for of land was granted by Gov. Benning Wentworth of New Hampshire and divided the land into 70 \"rights\" or \"shares\". Three families had settled in Castleton by 1770. More settlers followed and by 1777 the town consisted of 17 families. Vermont attained statehood in 1791 and Castleton continued to grow as an agricultural community. Farmers raised cattle, then turned for a while to sheep. Apple orchards abounded. Saw mills and gristmills were the first industries to be established in town. During the middle of the nineteenth century the slate and marble industries began to thrive in and around Castleton. The railroad came in 1854, and the last half of the century saw the development of tourism around Lake Bomoseen. For more see Castleton, Vermont\n\nThe jail building’s unusual composition reflects the richness of Vermont’s geological deposits. In the early 19th century, Vermonters discovered beds of slate that stretched from the state’s western edge to New York’s eastern borders. These massive deposits gave birth to a healthy mining industry that still extracts the grey, sea green, and red material.\n\nThe nature of slate, with its geologically formed horizontal bedding, causes it to fracture along flat lines and, unlike granite and marble, slate cannot be undercut or sculpted. Consequently its use as an art material has been minimal. Despite these limitations, the architect of the Castleton Jail took advantage of the planar formation of slate in constructing the jail, layering pieces of slate horizontally to form the exterior walls, and floors. The dark interior consists of two cells and a jailor’s compartment with only a single window to admit light and air. A riveted iron door completes this impregnable structure.\n\nIn 1953, Shelburne Museum purchased the fifty-ton jail from the town of Castleton for one dollar per ton. Only the roof and gable ends were removed for the journey of to Shelburne. Special dollies with twenty-four rubber-tired wheels were built to carry the basic structure and demanded additional steering apparatuses and four sets of brakes to maintain control on steep hills. The move, aided by the Vermont State Police, required three days at speeds varying from up to . The most difficult obstacle was the Vergennes underpass of the Rutland Railroad, where the clearance was only five inches.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "775624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=775624", "title": "Climbing guidebook", "text": "Climbing guidebook\n\nClimbing guidebooks are used by rock climbers to find the location of climbing routes at crags or on mountains. Many guidebooks also offer condensed information about local restaurants, bars and camping areas; often include sections on geology and local climbing history; and may contain many pictures to inspire climbers. Guidebooks may range in size from pamphlets detailing dozens of routes up to tomes that document thousands of routes. The library of the American Alpine Club contains over 20,000 books and videos, a majority of which are such guidebooks. In the Alps the Alpine Club Guide series is very comprehensive.\n\nGuidebooks can indicate locations by verbal descriptions (for example\" \"start in the third left-facing corner below the large, orange roof, left of the route \"Something Interesting\"\"). Starting in the 1980s, a diagram-style was developed, with the detailed diagrams of the routes, called \"topos\" (probably from French).\n\nRoute descriptions typically include information about the length of a route and its grade (difficulty). The description can also include varying amounts of information about how to climb the route, such as the location of the crux, special techniques needed, and amount and type of gear needed. When this information is very detailed it is collectively known as \"beta\". In a definitive guide, the route's history (credits for first ascents etc.) would also be included.\n\nGuidebooks may be compilations of selected popular routes, or exhaustive references. They may be published by national/regional mountaineering bodies, commercial publishers, or self-published by local enthusiasts. They are almost always sold in climbing shops near the areas described (or in general shops in areas too small for a climbing shop), but are also often distributed internationally.\n\nAs climbing areas develop, it is usually necessary to publish new editions of guidebooks every several years. In the interim, \"new routes\" updates are published, either as printed booklets or online.\n\nIn recent years, many climbing guidebooks have been published in digital format, often for display in smartphone applications. This medium offers the benefit of frequent or continuous updates, as well as rapid searching, and even, in some cases, GPS navigation.\n\nClimbing guidebooks are important to the culture of climbing, transmitting history and stories down through the ages, and delineating what is considered good style in a particular area. The upcoming publication of a new guidebook of the area often leads to a flurry of climbers establishing new routes there (because one can clearly see the parts of rock terrain which are still unclimbed).\n"}
{"id": "1979678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979678", "title": "Comics page", "text": "Comics page\n\nThe comics page of a daily newspaper is a page largely or entirely devoted to comic strips.\n\nOther features that frequently appear on the comics page are crossword puzzles and horoscopes. Other special pages in newspapers include the sports page and the society page.\n\nSome well known comics in the comics page is Garfield, The very first superman comics, and classics such as peanuts. The comic page was also used occasionally used to spread propaganda such as Korea My Home \n\nMany issues such as sex, narcotics and terrorism cannot or can very rarely be openly discussed in strips, although there are exceptions, usually for satire, as in \"Bloom County\". This led some cartoonists to resort to double entendre or dialogue children do not understand, as in Greg Evans' \"Luann\". Young cartoonists have claimed commonplace words, images and issues should be allowed in the comics. Some of the taboo words and topics are mentioned daily on television and other forms of visual media. Web comics and comics distributed primarily to college newspapers are much freer in this respect.\n\nViolence on the comics page is generally kept to a fantasy level. While black eyes and bandages covering wounds can be shown, the shedding of blood itself is prohibited in North American comic strips. Only the aftermath of spousal abuse is shown; the violent act itself is never shown on the comics pages. Most comics are episodic; with each storyline lasting for 3-5 days before being dropped in favor of a new storyline.\n"}
{"id": "6559697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6559697", "title": "Comparison of X Window System desktop environments", "text": "Comparison of X Window System desktop environments\n\nA desktop environment is a collection of software designed to give functionality and a certain look and feel to an operating system.\n\nThis article applies to operating systems which are capable of running the X Window System, mostly Unix and Unix-like operating systems such as Linux, Minix, Solaris, AIX, FreeBSD and Mac OS X. Microsoft Windows is incapable of natively running X applications; however, third-party X servers like Cygwin/X, Exceed, or Xming are available.\n\nA desktop environment (DE) can be broken up into several components that function independently and interact with one another to provide the look and feel and functionality of the desktop environment. A fundamental part of a DE is the window manager or WM. A window manager creates a certain way for application windows to present themselves to the user. It manages the various application windows, keeping track of which ones are open and providing features to switch between them. Another important element of a DE is the file manager. This application manages files/ folders and presents them in a way that the user finds convenient. It provides file operations like viewing, copying or moving, changing permissions and deleting. DEs usually provide utilities to set wallpapers and screensavers, display icons on the desktop, and perform some administrative tasks. They may optionally include word processors, CD/DVD writing applications, web browsers and e-mail clients.\n\nThere are some exceptions: Window managers like Fluxbox, wmii and Ratpoison operate independently of a desktop environment and were written with this objective in mind. Additional hand-picked applications add functionality such as a panel and volume management which gives them some of the qualities of a full DE. This contrasts the behaviour of WMs like Metacity and KWin which were not written with the objective of operating independently of a DE.\n\nKDE Software Compilation and GNOME are written almost completely on special software libraries Qt and GTK+ respectively. This usually means that virtually every component of the desktop environment including the file manager explicitly depends on that library for its functioning.\nNotably, nothing prevents the user from installing any number of software libraries of his/her choice. In practice, software written on major libraries can be run under any desktop environment. Running a package designed for one desktop (which essentially means that it's written using the same libraries as the desktop itself is) within a different desktop can be visually displeasing, as well as incurring the RAM penalty of loading libraries that wouldn't otherwise be required.\n\nSome of the differences which can influence the choice of desktop environment are:\n\nThis table shows basic information on the programs distributed with some desktop environments for the X Window System.\n\nNote that Razor-qt has become LXQt, a port of LXDE to the Qt framework.\n\nGNOME's graphical file manager Files (Nautilus) is intended to be very easy to use and has many features. KDE's file manager Dolphin is described as focused on usability. Prior to KDE version 4, the KDE project's standard file manager was Konqueror, which was also designed for ease of use.\n\nBoth GNOME and KDE come with many graphical configuration tools, reducing the need to manually edit configuration files for new users. They have extensive bundled software such as graphical menu editors, text editors, audio players, and software for doing administrative work. All applications installed in most distributions are automatically added to the GNOME and KDE menus. No major configuration changes are necessary to begin working. However, by using graphical tools, the extent to which the desktops can be configured is determined by the power provided by those tools.\nSome desktop environments and window managers claim that they support applications made for other desktop environments explicitly. For example, Fluxbox states KDE support in its feature list. Using software made specifically for the desktop environment in use or window manager agnostic software is a way to avoid issues. For software developers, the Portland Project has released a set of common interfaces that allows applications to integrate across many desktop environments.\n\nA 2011 test by Phoronix with the default installation of Ubuntu 10.04 showed that LXDE 0.5's memory utilization was lower than that of Xfce 4.6, which in turn was lower than that of GNOME 2.29, with KDE 4.4 using the most RAM compared to the aforementioned desktops.\n\nIn 2016, it was demonstrated in benchmarks that LXDE performed slightly faster than Xfce overall (in the average of all tests), using the Fedora Linux operating system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25538289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25538289", "title": "Comparison of system dynamics software", "text": "Comparison of system dynamics software\n\nThis is a comparison of various aspects of software offering system dynamics features:\n\n\"Due to concerns over commercial postings on the system dynamics main topic, commercial hyperlinks are specifically NOT active on this list.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3631214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3631214", "title": "Early English Text Society", "text": "Early English Text Society\n\nThe Early English Text Society (EETS) is a text publication society founded in 1864, dedicated to the editing and publication of early English texts, especially those only available in manuscript. Most of its volumes contain editions of Middle English or Old English texts. It is known for having been the first to print many important English manuscripts, including Cotton Nero A.x, which contains \"Pearl\", \"Sir Gawain and the Green Knight\", and other poems.\n\nThe Society was founded in England in 1864 by Frederick James Furnivall. Its stated goal in a report of its first year of existence was, \"on the one hand, to print all that is most valuable of the yet unprinted in English, and, on the other, to re-edit and reprint all that is most valuable in printed English books, which from their scarcity or price are not within the reach of the student of moderate means.\" \n\nAs of 2016, the Society had published 347 volumes in its Original Series; 126 volumes in its Extra Series, published between 1867 and 1935, comprising texts previously printed, but only in unsatisfactory or rare editions; and 25 volumes in its Supplementary Series, an occasional and irregular series initiated in 1970. The Society keeps the majority of its older publications in print, excepting only those which have been superseded by subsequent editions in its own series. Volumes are now published on behalf of the Society by Oxford University Press.\n\nThe Society emblem is a modified representation of the Anglo-Saxon Alfred Jewel, incorporating a scroll bearing the name of the Society.\n\nNotable members of the society when it was formed in 1864 included Furnivall himself, Alfred Tennyson (poet laureate), Warren de la Rue (inventor of the lightbulb), Richard Chenevix Trench (Irish ecclesiastic), Stephen Austin (a Hertford-based printer), Edith Coleridge (granddaughter of Samuel Taylor Coleridge), the Rev. Richard Morris (the editor of 12 volumes between 1862 and 1880), and others.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2777857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2777857", "title": "Edward Dwelly", "text": "Edward Dwelly\n\nEdward Dwelly (1864–1939) was an English lexicographer and genealogist. He created the authoritative dictionary of Scottish Gaelic, and his work has had an influence on Irish Gaelic lexicography. He also practised as a professional genealogist and published transcripts of many original documents relating to Somerset.\n\nBorn in Twickenham, Middlesex, in England, he became interested in Scottish Gaelic after being stationed in Scotland with the army and working with the Ordnance Survey. He began collecting words at the age of seventeen and was also a keen bagpiper.\n\nHe released the dictionary in sections from 1901 onwards and the first full edition of his \"Illustrated Gaelic Dictionary\" in 1911 under the pen name of Eoghann MacDhòmhnaill (Ewen MacDonald) fearing that his work would not be well accepted under his own obviously English name.\n\nHe continued collating entries from older dictionaries and also recording thousands of new words, both from publications and from his travels in the Gaelic-speaking parts of Scotland. He illustrated, printed, bound and marketed his dictionary with help from his children and wife Mary McDougall (from Kilmadock) whom he had married in 1896, herself a native Gaelic speaker, teaching himself the skills required.\n\nIn 1912, Dwelly self-published his \"Compendium of Notes on the Dwelly Family\", a 54-page genealogical work on the Dwelly family from a John Duelye in 1229, mainly covering Britain, but with an American section, and pedigrees and parish register extracts with supporting notes.\n\nHe subsequently gained a state pension from Edward VII for his work. In later life, alienated by the attitude of some people in Scotland, both Gaels and non-speakers, he returned to England, leaving behind his great legacy and dying in obscurity.\n\nIn 1991, the late Dr Douglas Clyne sourced several manuscripts in the National Library of Scotland which were published by him as \"Appendix to Dwelly's Gaelic-English Dictionary\", over half of the entries being from \"A-to-D\" alone but containing additional information not published in Dwelly's lifetime.\n\nHis life has been little researched, the best being the biographical introduction by Peter Berresford Ellis in Clyne's \"Appendix\".\n\nDwelly's illustrated Scottish Gaelic dictionary, consisting of well over one thousand pages, was truly a marvellous achievement in its day, particularly in view of the difficult circumstances which he faced in preparing it. Dwelly was nonetheless eager to express his gratitude to those who assisted him. He particularly expressed his thanks to the recently deceased King Edward VII for awarding him a Civil List Pension when only about one half of the dictionary had been published. He wished dearly to have been able to present a copy of his completed dictionary to the King and expressed sadness at the news of the King's death.\n\nDwelly also expressed his particular gratitude to his wife for revising proofs and assisting in correspondence as well as advising on many of the translations in addition to many other sacrifices on her part.\n\nDwelly's preface is of particular interest to the student of Scottish Gaelic, since many of the difficulties which he faced then are also applicable to today's Scottish Gaelic. Scottish Gaelic speakers were generally not taught to read and write in their native language and were therefore unable to provide correct spelling, which created enormous difficulties in preparing the dictionary. Scottish Gaelic speakers were also often reluctant to engage in Scottish Gaelic conversation with students of Scottish Gaelic such as Dwelly, generally preferring to speak to him in English. Edward often had to pose as a native speaker of Scottish Gaelic in order to obtain the opportunity to further his knowledge and understanding of colloquial Scottish Gaelic.\n\nDwelly's dictionary contains over 70,000 entries and is widely regarded as the most comprehensive dictionary of the Scottish Gaelic language compiled to date. So far, there have been over 12 printed editions (1920, 1930, 1941, 1949, 1967, 1971, 1973, 1977, 1988, 1993 and 2011) of the dictionary by various publishers.\n\nMaking Dwelly available digitally, so it could be searched both as a Gaelic-English and an English-Gaelic dictionary was an often heard request from Gaelic speakers, learners and enthusiasts. Due to a change in copyright law and various other complications, it eventually took a German learner of Scottish Gaelic, Michael Bauer, over 10 years to complete the digitisation. It was finally launched online in co-operation with Will Robertson, a software engineer from Perthshire, in January 2009 under the name Dwelly-d (short for \"Dwelly digiteach\" \"Digital Dwelly\").\n\nTheir work, carried out without any outside support, was subsequently commended in a motion in the Scottish Parliament on 6 January 2009 and an Early Day Motion in the Westminster Parliament on 14 January 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39196610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39196610", "title": "Encyclopedia of the Consumer Movement", "text": "Encyclopedia of the Consumer Movement\n\nThe Encyclopedia of the Consumer Movement is a 1997 encyclopedia edited by Stephen Brobeck and which describes the history of the consumer movement and other topics related to consumerism.\n\nThe work contains 198 entries written by 168 authors. The scope is the history, activities, interests, legislation, and actors in the twentieth century consumer movement. Focuses of the work include 40 articles each describing the consumer movement in a different country, various articles on specific actions undertaken by consumer activists, and descriptions of the interests of specific populations or demographics in the consumer movement.\n\nThe authors include established persons from academia, government, activism, and regulatory organizations who wrote entries summarizing their own fields of expertise.\n\nOne reviewer called the work \"the only comprehensive reference source of its kind.\" Another said that \"In its depth, breadth, scholarship, and readability, this volume will be considered the standard reference source for many years\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3040409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3040409", "title": "Ex parte Bowman", "text": "Ex parte Bowman\n\nEx Parte Bowman 61 U.S.P.Q.2d 1669 (Bd. Pat. App. & Int. 2001) was a decision by the U.S. Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences which asserted that in order to be patent-eligible, a process had to involve or promote the technological arts. This decision was overruled by the Board's subsequent \"Ex Parte Lundgren\" decision, but the Board's and then the Federal Circuit's In re Bilski opinion then superseded \"Lundgren\". \"In re Bilski\", however, rejects use of \"not in the technological arts\" as a basis for a rejection, although it seems to accept the concept when differently named. \"Bilski\" is now pending on writ of certiorari.\n\n"}
{"id": "3043958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3043958", "title": "Fixed points of isometry groups in Euclidean space", "text": "Fixed points of isometry groups in Euclidean space\n\nA fixed point of an isometry group is a point that is a fixed point for every isometry in the group. For any isometry group in Euclidean space the set of fixed points is either empty or an affine space.\n\nFor an object, any unique centre and, more generally, any point with unique properties with respect to the object is a fixed point of its symmetry group.\n\nIn particular this applies for the centroid of a figure, if it exists. In the case of a physical body, if for the symmetry not only the shape but also the density is taken into account, it applies to the centre of mass.\n\nIf the set of fixed points of the symmetry group of an object is a singleton then the object has a specific centre of symmetry. The centroid and centre of mass, if defined, are this point. Another meaning of \"centre of symmetry\" is a point with respect to which inversion symmetry applies. Such a point needs not be unique; if it is not, there is translational symmetry, hence there are infinitely many of such points. On the other hand, in the cases of e.g. \"C\" and \"D\" symmetry there is a centre of symmetry in the first sense, but no inversion.\n\nIf the symmetry group of an object has no fixed points then the object is infinite and its centroid and centre of mass are undefined.\n\nIf the set of fixed points of the symmetry group of an object is a line or plane then the centroid and centre of mass of the object, if defined, and any other point that has unique properties with respect to the object, are on this line or plane.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSlavik V. Jablan, \"Symmetry, Ornament and Modularity\", Volume 30 of K & E Series on Knots and Everything, World Scientific, 2002. \n"}
{"id": "30984650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30984650", "title": "Four-Sided Pyramid", "text": "Four-Sided Pyramid\n\nFour-Sided Pyramid is a conceptual modular \"structure\", by Sol LeWitt, in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden.\nThe artist created a plan and \"Four-Sided Pyramid\" was constructed by others, in 1999.\n"}
{"id": "30860983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30860983", "title": "Fyodor Buslaev", "text": "Fyodor Buslaev\n\nFedor Ivanovich Buslaev (; April 25, 1818 – August 12, 1898) was a Russian Empire philologist, art historian, and folklorist who represented the Mythological school of comparative literature and linguistics. He was profoundly influenced by Jacob Grimm and Theodor Benfey.\n\nBuslaev was educated at Penza and Moscow University. At the end of his academical course, 1838, he accompanied the family of Count S.G. Stroganov on a tour through Italy, Germany and France, occupying himself principally with the study of classical antiquities. On his return he was appointed assistant professor of Russian literature at the University of Moscow.\n\nA study of Jacob Grimm's great dictionary had already directed the attention of the young professor to the historical development of the Russian language, and the fruit of his studies was the book \"On the Teaching of the National Language\" (Moscow, 1844 and 1867), which even now has its value. In 1848 he produced his work \"On the Influence of Christianity on the Slavonic Language\", which was considered a milestone in the study of the development of the Slavonic languages.\n\nIn this work Buslaev proves that long before the age of Cyril and Methodius the Slavonic languages had been subject to Christian influences. In 1855 he published \"Palaeographical and Philological Materials for the History of the Slavonic Alphabets\", and in 1858 \"Essay Towards an Historical Grammar of the Russian Tongue\", abounding with rich material for students, carefully collected from an immense quantity of ancient records and monuments. In close connection with this work in his \"Historical Chrestomathy of the Church-Slavonic and Old Russian Tongues\" (Moscow, 1861). He was elected a member of the St. Petersburg Academy of Sciences in 1860.\n\nBuslaev also interested himself in Russian popular poetry and old Russian art, and the result of his labors is enshrined in \"Historical Sketches of Russian Folk Literature and Art\" (St. Petersburg, 1861), a very valuable collection of articles and monographs, in which the author shows himself a worthy and faithful disciple of Grimm. His \"Folk Poetry\" (St. Petersburg, 1887) is a valuable supplement to the \"Sketches\". In 1881 he was appointed professor of Russian literature at Moscow, and three years later published his \"Annotated Apocalypse\" with an atlas of 400 plates, illustrative of ancient Russian art.\n\nIn his advanced age Buslaev was to a large degree incapacitated by blindness and passed his time in dictating his memoirs to a secretary. Buslaev's work in the field of comparative literature was continued by his numerous students, notably Alexander Veselovsky.\n"}
{"id": "11906139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11906139", "title": "Gerson ben Solomon Catalan", "text": "Gerson ben Solomon Catalan\n\nGerson ben Solomon Catalan, also known as Gerson ben Solomon of Arles, was a French author who lived at Arles, France in the middle of the thirteenth century. He died, possibly at Perpignan, toward the end of the thirteenth century. According to Abraham Zacuto and others, he was the father of Levi ben Gerson (Gersonides).\n\nCatalan compiled, about 1280, an encyclopedia entitled \"Sha'ar ha-Shamayim\" (Door of Heaven), which contains many quotations and even whole treatises from previous translations of works written in Arabic. Following Shem-Tov ibn Falaquera, he divided his work into three parts, dealing respectively with: (1) physics, including natural phenomena, metals, plants, animals, man, and a chapter on dreams; (2) astronomy, taken chiefly from Al-Fargani and the \"Almagest\"; and (3) theology or metaphysics, which part, as Catalan expressly says, contains nothing new, but is a copy of Maimonides' \"Book of the Soul\". The Greek authors cited are Alexander of Aphrodisias, Aristotle, Empedocles, Galen, Hippocrates, Homer, Plato, Ptolemy, Pythagoras, Themistius, and Theophrastus; the Arabic: Ali ibn Abbas al-Magusi, Ali ibn Ridwan, Averroes, Avicenna, Costa ibn Lucca, Al-Farabi, Al-Fergani, Chonain, Isaac Israeli, Ibn Tufail, and Ibn Zuhr. The work was published in Venice in 1547 and Rödelheim in 1801.\n\n\nA number of citations are to be found in David Kaufmann, \"Die Sinne\". (See index.)\n \n"}
{"id": "13422594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13422594", "title": "Holocaust Encyclopedia", "text": "Holocaust Encyclopedia\n\nThe Holocaust Encyclopedia is an online encyclopedia, published by the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, offering detailed information about The Holocaust and the events surrounding it.\n\nThe encyclopedia is organized by the following topics:\n\nIt includes a number of articles and other resources:\n\nHolocaust Encyclopedia materials and other resources are available in multiple languages:\nArabic, Greek, Spanish, French, Italian, Korean, Russian, Urdu, Farsi, Bahasa Indonesia, Portuguese, Turkish, Chinese\n\nIt includes a Learning Site for Students. Organized by theme, the site uses text, photographs, maps, artifacts, and personal histories to provide an overview of the Holocaust.\n\n"}
{"id": "691894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=691894", "title": "Interpol notice", "text": "Interpol notice\n\nAn Interpol notice is an international alert circulated by Interpol to communicate information about crimes, criminals, and threats by police in a member state (or an authorised international entity) to their counterparts around the world. The information disseminated via notices concerns individuals wanted for serious crimes, missing persons, unidentified bodies, possible threats, prison escapes, and criminals' \"modus operandi\".\n\nThere are eight types of notices, seven of which are colour-coded by their function: Red, Blue, Green, Yellow, Black, Orange, and Purple. The most well-known notice is the Red Notice which is the \"closest instrument to an international arrest warrant in use today\". An eighth Special Notice is issued at the request of the United Nations Security Council.\n\nNotices published by Interpol are made either on the organisation's own initiative or are based on requests from National Central Bureaus (NCBs) of member states or authorised international entities such as the United Nations and the International Criminal Court. All notices are published on Interpol's secure website. Extracts of notices may also be published on Interpol's public website if the requesting entity agrees.\n\nInterpol may only publish a notice that adheres to all the proper legal conditions. For example, a notice will not be published if it violates Interpol's constitution, which forbids the organisation from undertaking activities of a political, military, religious, or racial character. Interpol may refuse to publish a notice that it considers inadvisable or a potential risk.\n\nNotices may be issued in any of the four official languages of Interpol: English, French, Spanish, and Arabic.\n\nSimilar to the Notice is another request for cooperation or alert mechanism known as a 'diffusion'. This is less formal than a notice, but also is used to request the arrest or location of an individual or additional information in relation to a police investigation. A diffusion is circulated directly by a member state or international entity to the countries of their choice, or to the entire Interpol membership and is simultaneously recorded in Interpol's databases.\n\nThe International Notice system was created in 1946 as Interpol re-established itself after World War II in the Parisian suburb of Saint-Cloud. It initially consisted of six colour coded notices; Red, Blue, Green, Yellow, Black, and Purple. In 2004, the seventh colour was added, Orange.\n\nIn 2005, the Interpol-United Nations Security Council Special Notice was created at the request of the UN Security Council through Resolution 1617 to provide better tools to help the Security Council carry out its mandate regarding the freezing of assets, travel bans, and arms embargoes aimed at individuals and entities associated with Al-Qaeda and the Taliban and was adopted by Interpol at its 74th General Assembly in Berlin in September 2005.\n\nInterpol published approximately 26,500 notices and diffusions in 2011:\n\nThere were 40,836 notices and 48,310 diffusions in circulation at the end of 2011, and 7,958 people were arrested on the basis of a notice or diffusion during 2011.\n\nInterpol published approximately 32,750 notices and diffusions in 2012:\n\nThere were 46,994 notices and 66,614 diffusions in circulation at the end of 2012.\n\nInterpol published approximately 34,920 notices and diffusions in 2013:\n\nThere were 52,880 notices and 70,159 diffusions in circulation at the end of 2013; 7,958 people were arrested on the basis of a notice during 2013.\n\nIn his book, \"Red Notice: A True Story of High Finance, Murder, and One Man’s Fight for Justice\", Bill Browder, the CEO of Hermitage Capital Management, describes how the Russian government repeatedly requested that Interpol issue a Red Notice for his arrest. Interpol refused to do so on the basis that it deemed the request was \"predominantly political in nature and therefore contrary to INTERPOL's rules and regulations\". Unable to secure his extradition, Browder was subsequently tried and convicted by a Moscow court for tax evasion \"in absentia\".\n\nIn January 2017, United Kingdom-based NGO Fair Trials called on Interpol to introduce more rigorous checks. Fair Trial chief executive Jago Russell stated, \"Interpol has been allowing itself to be used by oppressive regimes across the world to export the persecution of human rights defenders, journalists and political opponents\". There have been concerns about conflict of interest as well as in March 2017, the UAE donated $54 million to Interpol, which roughly equaled the contributions by all other member states. Interpol's secretary-general, Jurgen Stock, stated that Interpol had introduced a task force to review requests \"even more intensively\".\n\nThe Commission for the Control of Interpol's Files (\"CCF\") is an independent monitoring body. It operates in line with a number of official rules and documents and has three main functions:\n\nIn 2008, the Interpol General Assembly voted to amend Interpol's Constitution to integrate the CCF into its internal legal structure, thereby guaranteeing its independence.\n\nThe CCF's most notable function, however, is to consider legal petitions submitted by individuals requesting the revocation of Red Notices. Such petitions, as a rule, only succeed when the Red Notice is deemed to infringe Interpol's Constitution either because it offends the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or because it was issued for political, religious, military, or racial reasons. In an interview given to Forbes Africa Magazine in July 2013, leading international defense attorney Nick Kaufman observed that it may take months for the CCF to rule on such a petition adding that the review body \"doesn't have to give reasons for its decision and there is no right of appeal\".\n\nRed notices often are controversial and have been used to persecute opponents of regimes. An example being that of the former president of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych whose red notice was removed because it was shown to be a political request.\n\nIn the original 1985 version of the Brøderbund computer game \"Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?\", the first part of the player's objective in each mission is to obtain an Interpol Red Notice (imprecisely described as a \"warrant to arrest\") against a member of a fictitious crime syndicate.\n\n"}
{"id": "3150137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3150137", "title": "John Wickham Legg", "text": "John Wickham Legg\n\nJohn Wickham Legg (28 December 1843 – 28 October 1921) was an English physician and a writer on theological subjects, especially ecclesiology and liturgy.\n\nHe was the third son of the printer and bookseller George Legg, and was born at Alverstoke near Portsmouth in Hampshire, England, on 28 December 1843. He was educated at Winchester College and from there he went to New College, Oxford and subsequently opted to read Medicine at University College, London, where he studied under Sir William Jenner. Having qualified as a member of the Royal College of Surgeons, he was recommended by Jenner for the post of medical attendant to Prince Leopold, Queen Victoria's fourth son, later styled Duke of Albany, a haemophiliac. Though the appointment lasted only a year, the young Legg became a favourite of the Prince's wife, Princess Helen, and of their daughter, Princess Alice, Countess of Athlone.\n\nIn 1867, Legg studied in Berlin and upon his return he obtained his M.D. and membership of the Royal College of Physicians and was appointed curator of the Pathological Museum at University College. He began to publish and in 1870 became Casualty Physician at St Bartholomew's Hospital, London. About this time he took up liturgical studies as a hobby.\n\nIn 1872 Legg married Eliza Jane Houghton and they had a son, Leopold, in 1877.\n\nThe medical publications continued, but the liturgical studies also progressed. In 1875 Legg was elected a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries and the following year of the Royal College of Physicians. In 1878 he became Assistant Physician at Bart's and the following year began to lecture on Pathology. The liturgical hobby surfaced publicly in 1879 when he became a founder member of the re-established St Paul's Ecclesiological Society and with an 1881 essay on liturgical colours. The medical career was still unflagging, for in 1883 he gave the Bradshaw Lecture to the Royal College of Physicians on cardiac aneurisms. However, ill health then intervened. Following two attacks of rheumatic fever, Legg resigned his offices in 1887 and gave away his medical books, retiring for the winter to Cannes.\n\nIn 1888 Legg faced the public with the first fruits of a series of editions he was to produce in the next three decades: an edition with Cambridge University Press of the reformed breviary devised and published by Cardinal Quiñones in 1535.\n\nHaving developed a taste for this line of work, Legg dedicated his energies, social graces and connections to consolidating it. He was the prime mover behind the foundation in 1890 of the Henry Bradshaw Society, which on the model of the Surtees Society aimed at publishing manuscripts and rare printed works in volumes issued to subscribing members. Fittingly enough for a Society inaugurated in the Jerusalem Chamber of Westminster Abbey, Legg contributed as its first publication a monumental edition of the manuscript Westminster Missal.\n\nAn important figure in the history of coronation in the British monarchy (\"The Coronation of the Queen\" (1898), \"Three Coronation Orders\" (1900)), Legg passed the passions for this topic to his son, Leopold George Wickham Legg, who published \"English Coronation Records\" (1901).\n\nLegg's publications continued until the last major work, the edition of the Sarum Missal which he published with Oxford University Press in 1916. He died at the home of his son, Leopold, by then a Fellow of New College, Oxford, on 28 October 1921, and was buried in Saltwood, Kent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3934057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3934057", "title": "John of Wallingford (d. 1214)", "text": "John of Wallingford (d. 1214)\n\nJohn of Wallingford (died 1214), also known as John de Cella, was Abbot of St Albans Abbey in the English county of Hertfordshire from 1195 to his death in 1214. He was previously prior of Holy Trinity Priory at Wallingford in Berkshire (now Oxfordshire), a cell of St Albans.\n\nHe should not be confused with another John of Wallingford (died 1258), who was a friend of the famous chronicler Matthew Paris; nor with the unknown author of the so-called \"Chronicle of John of Wallingford\" (ca. 1225–1250), that is included in a manuscript of the papers of the later John of Wallingford.\n\nAccording to Matthew Paris's \"Gesta Abbatum\" (\"Actions of the Abbots\"), John came from a moderate family not far from a place called Stodham, presumably today's Stadhampton about five miles north of Wallingford. A tradition that he was from the family of John de la Hyde de Southcote, ancestor of the Hyde family of Denchworth, is apparently mentioned by some editions of \"Burke's Landed Gentry\" but it is not clear what the basis for this may be.\n\nThe \"Gesta\" records that John studied in Paris. He gained an excellent reputation and \"in grammar he was considered a very Priscian, in poetry a perfect Ovid, and in physic esteemed equal to Galen\". After taking Benedictine vows, he was sent to Wallingford Priory, where he became prior in 1191. From this he gained his St Albans by-names \"de Wallingford\" and \"de Cella\", having been superior of this important cell of the abbey. Four years later, on 20 July 1195, he was elected Abbot of St. Albans, where he presided with \"sanctity and success\". He rebuilt the refectory and the dormitory, and extended the west front of the abbey church, though not without difficulty: the work \"swallowed up the revenues as the sea the rivers, and made no progress\", until a simplifed design was eventually completed.\n\nHe was regarded by the 19th-century scholar Henry Richards Luard as the originator of the core of Roger of Wendover's \"Flores Historiarum\", which became the first part of Matthew Paris's \"Chronica Majora\", but this has since been questioned. No source of the time makes any mention of him as a historian.\n"}
{"id": "2360928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2360928", "title": "Letter of Reconciliation of the Polish Bishops to the German Bishops", "text": "Letter of Reconciliation of the Polish Bishops to the German Bishops\n\nThe Pastoral Letter of the Polish Bishops to their German Brothers (; ) was a pastoral letter sent on 18 November 1965 by Polish bishops of the Roman Catholic Church to their German counterparts. It was foremost an invitation to the 1000 Year Anniversary Celebrations of Poland's Christianization in 966. In this invitation letter the bishops asked for cooperation not only with Catholics but with Protestants as well.\n\nWhile recalling past and recent historical events, the bishops stretched out their hands in forgiveness and are asking for forgiveness. Here referred to as Letter of Reconciliation of the Polish Bishops to the German Bishops it is actually only one part of the extensive groundbreaking invitation and letter, where they declared: \"We forgive and ask for forgiveness\" (for the crimes of World War II).\n\nIt was one of the first attempts at reconciliation after the tragedies of the Second World War, in which Germany invaded Poland; both countries lost millions of people, while millions more, both Poles and Germans, had to flee from their homes or were forcibly resettled. Pope Pius XII had nominated German bishops over Polish dioceses, which was seen as the Holy See's recognition of the German conquest, and generated popular feeling against the Vatican. A much larger part was the invitation and the attempt of the Catholic bishops to gain distance from the Communists who were ruling Poland.\n\nAmong prominent supporters of this letter was Krakow's Archbishop, Karol Wojtyła, who later became Pope John Paul II in 1978.\n\nThe letter was answered by bishops of both of the then-two Germanys together.\n\nWidely publicised in Poland's churches, the letter drew a strong reaction from the Communist authorities of the People's Republic of Poland. Władysław Gomułka saw it as clearly aimed at countering his propaganda, which saw West Germany as the main external enemy of Poland and continued hostility between Poland and West Germany as one of the main guarantees of social order in the Recovered Territories.\n\nTo counteract the threat of losing control over people's minds, the Communist authorities reacted with anti-German and anti-Catholic hysteria. The Primate of Poland, Stefan Wyszyński, was denied a passport for his trip to Rome and on January 15, 1966, Gomułka announced preparations for state celebrations of the \"1000 Years of the Polish State\", intended as a countermeasure against the church-sponsored celebrations of 1000 years of the baptism of Poland. Most German linguists were forced to sign a letter of protest; those who refused were fired from their universities. In addition, the authorities twice refused permission for a planned visit of Pope Paul VI to Poland in 1966. The following year the Polish United Workers' Party planned to limit the number of religious schools, which was also seen as a penalty for the Letter of Reconciliation. The anti-church campaign lasted until Gomułka's downfall in 1970.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23868177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23868177", "title": "Like.com", "text": "Like.com\n\nLike.com was a price comparison service website that billed itself as a \"visual search engine for products\".\n\nThe website was created by Riya, a company built to create a search engine used to search for similar faces among photos. The company found it difficult to monetize the service, however, so they created Like.com to use the same technology for a different purpose. Riya's CEO, Munjal Shah, noted that \"the same technology works well to find similar-looking products.\" Riya's CTO and co-founder, Burak Göktürk, had previously worked with computer vision technology and has filed for two dozen facial-recognition patents under his name. The website was first announced at the Web 2.0 Conference on November 8, 2006. Like.com raised US$19.5 million from investors who included Bay Partners, BlueRun Ventures, and Leapfrog Ventures. The company planned to make money by acting as an affiliate to the retail sites that it links to, allowing it to receive about a 10% commission on each sale that the website sent to an online retailer. As of November 2006, the website had about two million unique products from 200 merchants. In 2015, the site became defunct and redirected users to Google's shopping search engine.\n\nSince launching, the website has only allowed users to search for jewelry, handbags, shoes, and watches. Users can browse the website to find a product that they are interested in, or one that looks similar to what they are looking for. They can then choose to use the website to search its database for similar-looking products. The website then returns the results with links to retailers such as Amazon.com and Zappos. With the results, users can highlight parts of a product image to find other products with similar patterns, shapes, and colors. Each of the three criterion can be ranked to determine the importance of each according to the user. Like.com is planning to allow users to upload their own photos for the website to analyze and return similar-looking products. They wish to also allow users to upload photos taken in places such as stores with a mobile device, so that they can search for the product online at a cheaper price.\n\nBambi Francisco of MarketWatch described Like.com as \"the next evolution of comparison-shopping engines, such as Google's Froogle, eBay's Shopping.com, EW Scripps' Shopzilla or Become.com and the next evolution in image search offered by the portals and search engines, Google, Yahoo, Microsoft's Live and InterActiveCorp's Ask.com.\"\n\nInternet search engine giant, Google Inc, bought the shopping comparison website, Like.com on Aug 23 2010. Google officials reported that the Like.com will continue to operate separately from Google operations.\n\nNow google.com/shopping.\n"}
{"id": "2336097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2336097", "title": "MasterFormat", "text": "MasterFormat\n\nMasterFormat is a standard for organizing specifications and other written information for commercial and institutional building projects in the U.S. and Canada. Sometimes referred to as the \"Dewey Decimal System\" of building construction, MasterFormat is a product of the Construction Specifications Institute (CSI) and Construction Specifications Canada (CSC). It provides a master list of Divisions, and Section numbers with associated titles within each Division, to organize information about a facility’s construction requirements and associated activities.\n\nMasterFormat is used throughout the construction industry to format specifications for construction contract documents. The purpose of this format is to assist the user to organize information into distinct groups when creating contract documents, and to assist the user searching for specific information in consistent locations. The information contained in MasterFormat is organized in a standardized outline format within 50 Divisions (16 Divisions pre-2004). Each Division is subdivided into a number of Sections. \n\nAfter World War II, building construction specifications began to expand, as more advanced materials and choices were made available. The Construction Specifications Institute (CSI) was founded in 1948 and began to address the organization of specifications into a numbering system. In 1963, they published a format for construction specifications, with 16 major divisions of work. A 1975 CSI publication used the term MasterFormat. The last CSI MasterFormat publication to use the 16 divisions was in 1995, and this is no longer supported by CSI. In November 2004, MasterFormat expanded from 16 Divisions to 50 Divisions, reflecting innovations in the construction industry and expanding the coverage to a larger part of the construction industry. Revised editions were published in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014, 2016, and 2018. \n\nStandardizing the presentation of such information improves communication among all parties involved in construction projects. That helps the project team deliver structures to owners according to their requirements, timelines, and budgets. An indication of the widespread acceptance of MasterFormat is that the ASTM standard for sustainability assessment of building products relies on MasterFormat to organize the data. MasterFormat is an integral component of the SpecsIntact system. SpecsIntact (Specifications Kept Intact), is an automated specification processing system for preparing certain government facility construction projects using standard master specifications, called Master Text or Masters, supplied by each of three government agencies. SpecsIntact was developed by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and designed for use by engineers, architects, interior designers, specification writers, project managers and construction managers. The Naval Facilities Engineering Command (NAVFAC) and the Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) has also adopted SpecsIntact as their standard specifications system, greatly facilitating the effort to standardize construction specifications throughout these agencies. These services utilize MasterFormat from UFGS (United Facilities Guide Specification) sections found on the Whole Building Design Guide website.\n\nThe current MasterFormat Divisions are:\n\nPROCUREMENT AND CONTRACTING REQUIREMENTS GROUP\n\nSPECIFICATIONS GROUP\n\n\"General Requirements Subgroup\"\n\n\"Facility Construction Subgroup\"\n\n\"Facility Services Subgroup\":\n\n\"Site and Infrastructure Subgroup\":\n\n\"Process Equipment Subgroup\":\n\nMASTERFORMAT 2004 EDITION\n\nSame as MasterFormat 2014, except the following:\n\nMASTERFORMAT 1995 EDITION\n\nBefore November 2004, MasterFormat was composed of 16 Divisions:\n\nMASTERFORMAT 1988 EDITION\n\nSame as MasterFormat 1995 except the following:\n\nSectionFormat is a standard for organizing information within each Section. A Section is divided into three Parts—\"general,\" \"products,\" and \"execution.\" Each Part is further organized into a system of Articles and Paragraphs.\n\nA relatively new strategy to classify the built environment, named OmniClass, incorporates the work results classification in its Table 22 Work Results.\n\n"}
{"id": "53320400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53320400", "title": "Migros Museum of Contemporary Art", "text": "Migros Museum of Contemporary Art\n\nThe Migros Museum of Contemporary Art (German: Migros Museum für Gegenwartskunst) is a museum for contemporary art in Zürich, Switzerland. The museum was founded in 1996\n\nIt is the successor to the Halle für Internationale neue Kunst, which existed from 1978 until 1981. It receives financing from the cooperative society Migros, which dedicates 1% of earnings, the so-called \"Kulturprozent\" to culture.\n\nThe museum was renovated between 2010 and 2012 and reopened on August 31, 2012 with the first Swiss solo exhibition by Ragnar Kjartansson. The museum has two floors with a total area of approximately 1300 m. One floor is used to display the collection, the other is used for temporary exhibitions. The collection contains over 1300 works by 700 artists. \n"}
{"id": "5871082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5871082", "title": "Morta (mythology)", "text": "Morta (mythology)\n\nIn Roman mythology, Morta was the goddess of death. She is one of the Parcae, related to the Roman conception of the Fates in Greek mythology, the Moirai. Her Greek equivalent is Atropos. She is responsible for the pain and/or death that occur in a half-wake, half-sleep time frame. Her father is the god of darkness and her mother is the goddess of night. She visits and warns in advance of the pain and/or death about to be endured.\n"}
{"id": "56716096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56716096", "title": "Nikolai Alexandrovich Kushelev-Bezborodko", "text": "Nikolai Alexandrovich Kushelev-Bezborodko\n\nNikolai Alexandrovich Kushelev-Bezborodko (28 November 1834 - 11 April 1862, Nice, France) was a Russian art collector.\n\nHis father was Alexander Kushelov-Bezborodko (1800-1855), senator, state controller, count and member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, whilst his mother was Alexander's wife Alexandra Nikolaevna née Princess Repnina-Volkonskaya. After his father's death he inherited half his estate and his art collection. At the end of the Crimean War he went on a trip to Europe, where he explored several museums and exhibitions and decided to expand his father's collection. He began to actively buy up contemporary paintings and sculptures, mainly from France and in large part directly from the artists or their dealers. In a very short time he managed to expand the collection significantly - despite (or perhaps because of) his lack of age, experience and knowledge he appreciated modern artists such as Theodore Rousseau, Jules Dupré, Delacroix, Jean-François Millet, Constant Troyon Courbet and Corot and brought the Barbizon school to the attention of Russian audiences.\n\nHe died suddenly in 1862 and his artworks were added to the collections of the museum at the Imperial Academy of Arts in St Petersburg, forming a distinct Kushelevskaya Gallery of over 500 paintings and sculptures. Between 1922 and 1923 almost the whole of this collection was transferred to the Hermitage Museum, from which some of the paintings were again transferred between 1923 and 1925 to the new Pushkin Museum. The Hermitage devoted an exhibition to the collection in 1993.\n"}
{"id": "465953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=465953", "title": "Online public access catalog", "text": "Online public access catalog\n\nAn online public access catalog (often abbreviated as OPAC or simply library catalog) is an online database of materials held by a library or group of libraries. Users search a library catalog principally to locate books and other material available at a library. In simple language it is an electronic version of the card catalog. OPAC is the gateway to library's collection.\n\nAlthough a handful of experimental systems existed as early as the 1960s, the first large-scale online catalogs were developed at Ohio State University in 1975 and the Dallas Public Library in 1978.\n\nThese and other early online catalog systems tended to closely reflect the card catalogs that they were intended to replace. Using a dedicated terminal or telnet client, users could search a handful of pre-coordinate indexes and browse the resulting display in much the same way they had previously navigated the card catalog.\n\nThroughout the 1980s, the number and sophistication of online catalogs grew. The first commercial systems appeared, and would by the end of the decade largely replace systems built by libraries themselves. Library catalogs began providing improved search mechanisms, including Boolean and keyword searching, as well as ancillary functions, such as the ability to place holds on items that had been checked-out.\n\nAt the same time, libraries began to develop applications to automate the purchase, cataloging, and circulation of books and other library materials. These applications, collectively known as an integrated library system (ILS) or library management system, included an online catalog as the public interface to the system's inventory. Most library catalogs are closely tied to their underlying ILS system.\n\nThe 1990s saw a relative stagnation in the development of online catalogs. Although the earlier character-based interfaces were replaced with ones for the Web, both the design and the underlying search technology of most systems did not advance much beyond that developed in the late 1980s.\n\nAt the same time, organizations outside of libraries began developing more sophisticated information retrieval systems. Web search engines like Google and popular e-commerce websites such as Amazon.com provided simpler to use (yet more powerful) systems that could provide relevancy ranked search results using probabilistic and vector-based queries.\n\nPrior to the widespread use of the Internet, the online catalog was often the first information retrieval system library users ever encountered. Now accustomed to web search engines, newer generations of library users have grown increasingly dissatisfied with the complex (and often arcane) search mechanisms of older online catalog systems.\n\nThis has, in turn, led to vocal criticisms of these systems within the library community itself, and in recent years to the development of newer (often termed 'next-generation') catalogs.\n\nThe newest generation of library catalog systems are distinguished from earlier OPACs by their use of more sophisticated search technologies, including relevancy ranking and faceted search, as well as features aimed at greater user interaction and participation with the system, including tagging and reviews. These new features rely heavily on existing metadata which is often poor or inconsistent, particularly for older records.\n\nThese newer systems are almost always independent of the library's integrated library system (ILS), instead providing drivers that allow for the synchronization of data between the two systems. While older online catalog systems were almost exclusively built by ILS vendors, libraries are increasingly turning to next generation catalog systems built by enterprise search companies and open source projects, often led by libraries themselves. The costs associated with these new systems, however, have slowed their adoption, particularly at smaller institutions.\n\nAn example of a next generation OPAC system is included in the Libramatic software package.\n\nAlthough library catalogs typically reflect the holdings of a single library, they can also contain the holdings of a group or consortium of libraries. These systems, known as union catalogs, are usually designed to aid the borrowing of books and other materials among the member institutions via interlibrary loan. Examples of this type of catalogue include COPAC, SUNCAT, NLA Trove, City of Cape Town library OPAC, and WorldCat, reflecting the collections of libraries worldwide.\n\nThere are a number of systems that share much in common with library catalogs, but have traditionally been distinguished from them. Libraries utilize these systems to search for items not traditionally covered by a library catalog.\n\nThese include bibliographic databases—such as Medline, ERIC, PsycINFO, and many others—which index journal articles and other research data. There are also a number of applications aimed at managing documents, photographs, and other digitized or born-digital items such as Digital Commons and DSpace. Particularly in academic libraries, these systems (often known as digital library systems or institutional repository systems) assist with efforts to preserve documents created by faculty and students.\n\n"}
{"id": "8902567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8902567", "title": "POETS day", "text": "POETS day\n\nPOETS day is a term used by workers in the United Kingdom to refer jocularly to Friday as the last day of the work week. The word \"POETS\" is an acronym for \"Piss off early, tomorrow's Saturday\": hence Friday becomes \"Poets day\". It is tradition to begin the POETS day at 3.30PM. Variations on this are \"Punch out early, tomorrow's Saturday\" (referring to a manual punch time clock), \"Push off early, tomorrow's Saturday\" and \"Push off early, tomorrow's Sunday\" (based on the old 6-day work week). \n\nIt also is a backronym, to be read as in \"A Poets Day Dream.\"\n\nThe Waterloo Engineering Society at the University of Waterloo, has an on-campus pub named POETS The official expansion of the name is \"Piss on everything, tomorrow's Saturday\". The University of Calgary's Schulich School of Engineering also has a weekly meeting/party with the same expansion of POETS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24109809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24109809", "title": "Paget Toynbee", "text": "Paget Toynbee\n\nPaget Jackson Toynbee (1855–1932) was a UK Dante scholar. Robert Hollander has described Toynbee as 'the most influential Dantean scholar of his time'.\n\nToynbee also provided thousands of quotes for the \"Oxford English Dictionary\".\n\n\n\nIn the years immediately before his death, Toynbee donated manuscripts, papers and correspondence relating to Dante and to Horace Walpole to the Bodleian Library. Further papers were bequeathed by him in 1932.\n\nThe Paget Toynbee lectures on Dante have taken place annually in Oxford since 1995.\n"}
{"id": "26179045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26179045", "title": "Princeton Application Repository for Shared-Memory Computers", "text": "Princeton Application Repository for Shared-Memory Computers\n\nPrinceton Application Repository for Shared-Memory Computers (PARSEC) is a benchmark suite composed of multithreaded emerging workloads that is used to evaluate and develop next-generation chip-multiprocessors. It was collaboratively created by Intel and Princeton University to drive research efforts on future computer systems. Since its inception the benchmark suite has become a community project that is continued to be improved by a broad range of research institutions. PARSEC is freely available and is used for both academic and non-academic research.\n\nWith the emergence of chip-multiprocessors computer manufacturers were faced with a problem: The new technology caused a disruptive change. For the first time in computer history software would have to be rewritten in order to take advantage of the parallel nature of those processors, which means that existing programs could not be used effectively to test and develop those new types of computer systems. At that time parallel software only existed in very specialized areas. However, before chip-multiprocessors became commonly available software developers were not willing to rewrite any mainstream programs, which means hardware manufacturers did not have access to any programs for test and development purposes that represented the expected real-world program behavior accurately. This posed a hen-and-egg problem that motivated a new type of benchmark suite with parallel programs that could take full advantage of chip-multiprocessors.\n\nPARSEC was created to break this circular dependency. It was designed to fulfill the following five objectives:\n\n\nTraditional benchmarks that were publicly available before PARSEC were generally limited in their scope of included application domains or typically only available in an unparallelized, serial version. Parallel programs were only prevalent in the domain of High-Performance Computing and on a much smaller scale in business environments. Chip-multiprocessors however were expected to be heavily used in all areas of computing such as with parallelized consumer applications.\n\nThe PARSEC Benchmark Suite is available in version 2.1, which includes the following workloads:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23733632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23733632", "title": "Project Labor Agreement", "text": "Project Labor Agreement\n\nA Project Labor Agreement (PLA), also known as a Community Workforce Agreement, is a pre-hire collective bargaining agreement with one or more labor organizations that establishes the terms and conditions of employment for a specific construction project. Before any workers are hired on the project, construction unions have bargaining rights to determine the wage rates and benefits of all employees working on the particular project and to agree to the provisions of the agreement. The terms of the agreement apply to all contractors and subcontractors who successfully bid on the project, and supersedes any existing collective bargaining agreements. PLAs are used on both public and private projects, and their specific provisions may be tailored by the signatory parties to meet the needs of a particular project. The agreement may include provisions to prevent any strikes, lockouts, or other work stoppages for the length of the project. PLAs typically require that employees hired for the project are referred through union hiring halls, that nonunion workers pay union dues for the length of the project, and that the contractor follow union rules on pensions, work conditions and dispute resolution.\n\nPLAs are authorized under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), 29 U.S.C. §§ 151-169. Sections 8(e) and (f) of the NLRA, 29 U.S.C. §§ 158(e) and (f) make special exceptions from other requirements of the NLRA in order to permit employers to enter into pre-hire agreements with labor unions in the construction industry.\n\nThe agreements have been in use in the United States since the 1930s, and first became the subject of debate in the 1980s, for their use on publicly funded projects. In these instances, government entities made signing PLAs a condition of working on taxpayer funded projects. This type of PLA, known as a government-mandated PLA, is distinct from a PLA voluntarily entered into by contractors on public or private work—as is permitted by the NLRA—as well as a PLA mandated by a private entity on a privately funded construction project. Executive orders issued since 1992 have affected the use of government-mandated PLAs for federal construction projects and the most recent order, issued by President Barack Obama in February 2009, encourages their use by federal agencies. The use of PLAs is opposed by a number of groups, who argue that the agreements discriminate against non-union contractors and do not improve efficiency or reduce costs of construction projects. Studies of PLAs have mixed results, with some studies concluding that PLAs have a favorable impact, while others find that the agreements can increase costs, and may negatively impact non-union contractors and workers.\n\nThe earliest uses of Project Labor Agreements in the U.S. date back to several dam projects in the 1930s, including the Grand Coulee Dam in Washington, the Shasta Dam in California and the Hoover Dam in Nevada. Modern PLAs particularly developed from those used in construction carried out during World War II, a period when skilled labor was in demand, construction unions controlled 87% of the national market and government spending on construction had increased significantly over a short period of time. These early PLAs focused on establishing standard rates of pay and preventing work stoppages. PLA projects that followed included Cape Canaveral in the 1960s, Disney World from 1967–71 and the Trans-Alaska Pipeline from 1973-77. During this period and subsequently, the unionized share of the construction industry precipitously declined as construction users sought more open competition. By the 1980s, nonunion contractors claimed in excess of 80% of the construction work, in a wide variety of trades, with some variation in different parts of the country.\n\nThe Boston Harbor reclamation project that began in the 1980s became the focus of debate over the legality of PLAs. When the Massachusetts Water Resources Authority elected to use a PLA for the project that mandated union-only labor, the Associated Builders and Contractors of Massachusetts/Rhode Island, Inc. challenged its legality, asserting that the use of a PLA was prohibited by the National Labor Relations Act. In 1990, the First Circuit federal appeals court ruled that the Boston Harbor PLA breached federal labor law because of its union-work requirement.\n\nOn October 23, 1992, while the Boston Harbor case was still in court, President George H. W. Bush signed Executive Order 12818 prohibiting federal agencies from exclusively contracting union labor for construction projects. Bush's order prohibited the use of PLAs in federal construction projects. The Clinton administration rescinded this order when President Bill Clinton issued Executive Order 12836 in February 1993, shortly after he took office. This order allowed federal agencies to fund construction projects where contractors required a PLA. One month later, in the Boston Harbor cleanup case, the United States Supreme Court unanimously upheld the use of the agreements on public projects. The Supreme Court ruled that if the government was in the role of a regulator, it was not able to require PLA use under labor law preemption principles, however, it could choose to do so as a market participant without being preempted by the National Labor Relations Act. The Court did not address the separate question of whether government-mandated PLAs are lawful under federal or state competitive bidding laws. The decision led to increased use of PLAs in public-sector construction projects throughout the U.S.\n\nIn 1997, Clinton proposed an executive order stating that federal agencies must consider use of PLAs for federally funded projects. Republicans staunchly opposed the move, believing it would restrict federal projects to union contractors only. Clinton abandoned the proposed executive order, but issued a memorandum on June 5, 1997, encouraging federal departments to consider the use of PLAs for “large and significant” projects. The memorandum required that government agencies review each project to decide whether a PLA would allow the agency to increase efficiency and reduce costs.\n\nOn February 17, 2001, President George W. Bush signed Executive Order 13202, “Preservation of Open Competition and Government Neutrality Towards Government Contractors’ Labor Relations on Federal and Federally Funded Construction Projects”, prohibiting the use of PLAs for construction projects with federal funding. This order stated that construction projects receiving federal funding would not be allowed to impose project labor agreements. Specifically, the order declared that neither the federal government, nor any agency acting with federal assistance, shall require or prohibit construction contractors to sign union agreements as a condition of performing work on federally funded construction projects. The order allowed any PLAs that had previously been agreed to continue, and did not affect projects that did not receive federal funding. Bush's order revoked the previous executive order affecting PLAs, Clinton's order 12836, which revoked the executive order issued by President George H.W. Bush in 1992. President George W. Bush issued an amendment in April 2001, allowing certain projects to be exempted from this order, if a contract had already been awarded under an existing PLA at the time of the order.\n\nIn August 2001, U.S. District Court ruled Executive Order 13202 invalid in a case examining the use of a PLA by Maryland for the Woodrow Wilson Bridge replacement project. The court ruled that the order was invalid as it conflicted with the National Labor Relations Act. The judge issued a permanent injunction to block enforcement of the order on November 7, 2001. In July 2002, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia overturned the District Court's decision and ordered the removal of the injunction. Following this decision, the Department of Defense, NASA and the General Services Administration formally recognized the order in the Federal Register and implemented it in their construction bidding processes.\n\nAlthough the Court of Appeals decision in 2002 upheld the executive order prohibiting federal projects from using PLAs, individual states and counties were permitted to use PLAs for some public works where funding was from state and local revenue. These PLAs received opposition by organizations such as the Associated Builders and Contractors, and the Black Contractors Group. A notable example of pro-PLA legislation was passed in New Jersey, which enacted a law in 2002 allowing use of PLAs for some government funded projects.\n\nOn February 6, 2009, President Barack Obama signed executive order 13502, which urges federal agencies to consider mandating the use of PLAs on federal construction projects costing $25 million or more on a case-by-case basis. This act served to revoke the Bush executive orders 13202 and 13208 from eight years earlier that prohibited government-mandated PLAs on federal and federally funded construction projects. The Obama order states that federal agencies can require a PLA if such an agreement will achieve federal goals in economy and efficiency. According to the terms of the order, non-union contractors may compete for contracts subject to PLAs, but they must agree to the various terms and conditions contained in each PLA in order to win a federal contract and build a project. A key change from the 2001 order is that by repealing the Bush orders, the Obama order permits recipients of federal funding, such as state, local and private construction owners, to mandate PLAs on public works projects of any size. However, the order does not encourage or mandate recipients of federal assistance to use a government-mandated PLA.\n\nWith the February 2009 stimulus bill allocating approximately $140 billion for federal, state and local construction projects, battles over government-mandated PLAs on public works projects from 2009 to 2011 have been widespread at the state and local government level. Government officials and legislators have clashed over using PLA mandates on projects in states including Iowa, Oregon, Ohio, California, and others. Individual communities have voted on whether to prohibit the use of government-mandated PLAs on taxpayer funded construction projects, including ballot initiatives in Chula Vista, Oceanside, and in San Diego County, California in 2010, which resulted in officials being prohibited from mandating or prohibiting the use of PLAs for government projects. In 2011, contractors filed bid protests with the Government Accountability Office against government mandated PLAs for construction projects in New Hampshire, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C. These protests led to federal PLA mandates being removed from project solicitations in each case.\n\nAt the state level, as of July 2015, through legislation or by executive order issued by the state governor, the following states have banned the requirement that PLAs be used for government funded construction projects: Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, Georgia, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah, Virginia, and West Virginia. States with executive orders, or that have enacted legislation authorizing or encouraging the use of PLAs on public projects include California, Connecticut, Hawaii, Illinois, Maryland, New Jersey, New York and Washington State.\n\nThere has been much debate over the government-mandated PLAs, particularly for publicly funded projects. The use of project labor agreements is supported by the construction unions, and some political figures, who state that PLAs are needed to ensure that large, complex projects are completed on time and on schedule. According to those who support the use of such agreements, PLAs enable project owners to control costs and ensure that there are no disruptions to the construction schedule, for example from strikes. In particular, proponents of PLAs point to the inclusion of clauses in the agreement that agree to establish labor management problem solving committees that deal with scheduling, quality control, health and safety, and productivity problems during the project. They also state that PLAs ensure that the workforce hired has received training and is of high quality. The use of PLAs in large private construction projects such as the building of the New England Patriots' Gillette Stadium, are given as examples of how PLAs help project owners meet tight deadlines, according to supporters. In addition to the stated benefits to project owners, supporters of PLAs also say that PLA use has a positive impact on local communities, through set goals for local hiring and provision of education.\n\nGroups including the Associated General Contractors of America (AGC), Associated Builders and Contractors (ABC), Construction Industry Roundtable (CIRT), National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the National Black Chamber of Commerce, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have actively opposed the use of PLAs, particularly for government projects. These groups have challenged the use of such agreements through litigation, lobbying, public relations campaigns. Opponents of PLAs supported the Bush executive order prohibiting government-mandated PLAs, and have argued that between 2001 and 2008, when the executive order was in place, no federal projects suffered significant labor problems, delays or cost overruns attributable to the absence of PLAs. According to those who oppose PLAs, the agreements place restrictions on the hiring and working practices of contractors, and can lead to increased costs for project owners. One of their objections to PLAs is that the agreements require contractors to pay into union benefit plans and obey union work rules. In addition, they oppose the use of PLAs to restrict hiring on projects to construction workers selected by unions through union hiring halls, stating that this does not increase the quality of worker as all those who are licensed in a craft have at least the same level of education and skill, regardless of whether they belong to a union.\n\nAnother point of debate is the proportion of construction workers who are unionized. According to opponents, under PLAs contractors must hire their workers through unions, and unionized workers are the majority of those who work on PLA projects, despite non-union workers making up the majority of the construction workforce. Estimates of the percentage of construction workers who are non-union, cited by opponents of PLAs, are around 85%, based on figures from the U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics, and more recent data puts this figure at 86.9%. This figure is disputed by supporters of PLAs, who state that the figures given by those in opposition to PLAs are misleading and are based on census data that encompasses too broad a concept of a construction worker. According to a study by Cornell University in 2010, cited by Mary Vogel, executive director of the Construction Institute, In Massachusetts 60% of the Construction Trades is unionized. Since its inception in 1998, The Construction Institute, a non-profit organization is dedicated to the needs of the unionized construction sector in Massachusetts.\n\nA number of politicians do not agree with the use of the agreements for publicly funded construction projects, and have introduced bills or executive orders that prohibit using the agreements for government projects or prevent the use of public funds for projects using PLAs. These include Louisiana Senate Bill 76, introduced by Senator Danny Martiny, to prohibit state governments from requiring a PLA for projects with government funding. This bill was passed in June 2011, making Louisiana the 5th state in 2011 to ban government requirements that contractors use PLAs for publicly funded construction projects.\n\nA main argument has been the impact of PLAs on project cost. Those who oppose PLAs state that the agreements impact competition for project bids, reducing the number of potential bidders as non-union contractors are less likely to bid due to the potential restrictions a PLA would pose. According to opponents of the agreements, the reduced competition leads to higher bids and a higher cost for the project owner. In addition, opponents argue that the cost may also be increased due to contractors having greater expenses under a PLA. For example, according to Max Lyons of the Employee Policy Foundation, the cost of a project under a PLA is increased up to 7%, since contractors are required to pay their employees the union wage, rather than the government-determined prevailing wage. Opponents have also argued that there is evidence to show that PLA mandates add costs by forcing non-union contractors to pay into union benefit plans and their existing benefit plans. Supporters of PLA use argue that the end cost of projects is not increased if a PLA is in place, compared to projects without such an agreement, since the agreements prevent cost overruns. In response, opponents of the agreements cite examples of projects a PLA was in place and costs overran including Boston's Big Dig project, Safeco Field in Seattle, and the San Francisco International Airport. Three studies carried out on PLA use in school construction by the Beacon Hill Institute in 2003, 2004 and 2006, found that costs were increased by up to 20% in projects in Massachusetts, Connecticut and New York where PLAs were used. A 2009 study of PLAs use, carried out by Rider Levett Bucknall to determine whether PLAs should be used in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs' construction projects, found that costs would increase if PLAs are used for construction projects in locations where union membership is low. According to their analysis, in areas including Denver, Colorado, New Orleans,\nLouisiana, and Orlando, Florida, where unions do not have a great presence, use of PLAs for projects would lead to cost increases from 5% to 9%. In two cities, San Francisco and New York City, where unions have a great presence, the study predicted mixed results regarding potential cost savings ranging from small project cost increases to small cost savings.\n\nOpponents of PLAs state that the agreements impact competition for project bids, which can lead to higher costs. It is argued by those who oppose PLAs, such as former ABC president Henry Kelly, that PLAs discourage if not prevent non-unionized contractors from competing for construction projects, particularly federal projects. Competitive bidding statutes discourage public sector PLAs from discrimination between non-union and union contractors, as discrimination between bidders would typically represent a violation of such statutes. Non-union contractors have been awarded contracts on public sector PLA projects, for example the Boston Harbor project. In the United States Supreme Court ruling on the use of a PLA for the Boston Harbor project, it was stated that project owners are within their rights to choose a contractor who is willing to enter into a pre-hire agreement, and that contractors have a choice whether or not they wish to enter such an agreement. However, in a subsequent case the Supreme Court observed the following limitation on the Boston Harbor holding, \"In finding that the state agency had acted as a market participant, we stressed that the challenged action \"was specifically tailored to one particular job.\"\"\n\nPLAs often require all companies to obtain their workers from union hiring halls, though the union controlling this employee referral system may not discriminate on the basis of a worker's union or non-union status. It is often the case, however, that the hired employees must join a union, usually for the duration of the project. PLA opponents argue that the union control of hiring prevents a non-union contractor for using its own employees. The increased cost to contractors and the impact on their workers of joining a union, is said by opponents of PLAs to discourage non-union contractors from bidding on projects with a PLA. For instance, a project in Ohio in 2010, to build dormitories for two schools saw an increased number of bids when a PLA was no longer required, and the bid prices were 22% lower than they had been when a PLA was in place.\n\nAccording to supporters, PLAs can be used by public project owners like school boards or city councils to set goals for creating local jobs and achieving social welfare goals through the construction projects they apply to. PLAs may include provisions for targeted hiring and apprenticeship ratio provisions. According to proponents, by including requirements for a certain proportion of local workers to enter union apprenticeship programs working on the construction program, PLAs can be used to help local workers gain skills. The term \"Community Workforce Agreement\" (CWA) may be used to describe PLAs with community-focused provisions. Proponents state that Community Workforce Agreements re-inject the tax dollars paying for these infrastructure projects back to the communities. Those who oppose PLAs have pointed to examples such as the construction of the Yankee Stadium and the Washington Nationals Ballpark, for both of which community focused agreements were in place but the goals of local hiring and resources to be provided to the community were not met. According to a report for the DC Sports & Entertainment Commission, the PLA for the Nationals Ballpark failed to meet its three main goals of local workers performing 50% of journeyman hours, apprenticeships provided to city residents only, and apprentices to carry out 25% of the work hours on the project. According to groups such as ABC, since the PLAs require that workers are hired through the unions and there are much fewer union workers, this can mean that meeting local hiring goals is impossible.\n\nA number of women and minority contractor groups oppose project labor agreements, arguing that PLAs disproportionately impact small businesses, particularly those owned by women and minorities. These groups argue that PLAs are anti-free-market and discriminatory. In particular, groups including the National Association of Women Business Owners, have voiced their opposition to PLAs, and in 1998, there was a House hearing dedicated to the issue of minority groups' opposition to government-mandated PLAs. The National Black Chamber of Commerce opposes the use of PLAs due to the low numbers of black union members in the construction industry. According to the NBCC, implementing PLAs leads to discrimination against black workers who are generally non-union workers and also prevents contractors from using casual laborers. According to the United States Pan-Asian American Chamber of Commerce, the majority of their membership comprises small businesses that are unfairly impacted by PLAs, particularly due to increased costs and lowered employee benefits.\n\nA number of studies and reports have been published, aiming at identifying the impact of PLAs.\nIn addition to academic research, reports have been produced by government agencies and individuals on behalf of state or federal government. In 1998 the Government Accountability Office produced a report on PLAs that noted an overall lack of data but reported that both “proponents and opponents of the use of PLAs said it would be difficult to compare contractor performance on federal projects with and without PLAs because it is highly unlikely that two such projects could be found that were sufficiently similar in cost, size, scope, and timing.” The GAO report concluded that it would be difficult to draw \"any definitive conclusions\" on the impact of PLAs on performance. More recent reports include a favorable study of PLAs from the Cornell University School of Industrial and Labor Relations, in 2009, reports produced by the Beacon Hill Institute since 2003, which conclude that PLAs increase costs of projects, and an analysis published by the National University System Institute for Policy Research, which found that PLAs increased the cost of school construction in California.\n\nIn addition to studies examining the use of PLAs and their impact, reports are available detailing the history of PLA use and the arguments for and against their use. Reports examining the history of PLA use, include a 2001 California State Library report, compiled for California State Senate, which recounts the history of PLAs in California and uses case studies to examine the features of public and private PLAs. In a 2001 \"University of Pennsylvania Journal of Law\" article, the author outlines the arguments on either side of PLAs and evaluates the state of the law since the 1993 Boston Harbor case decision. The article finds that while there are benefits to PLA use, they can present risks and should only be allowed on projects where they will further the goals of competitive bidding statutes, namely timely, efficient, high quality, and inexpensive construction.\n\nStudies have found that PLAs offer benefits to project owners and local communities, and do not disadvantage nonunion contractors and employees. A 2009 study by Fred B. Kotler, J.D., Associate Director of the Cornell University School of Industrial and Labor Relations found that there is no evidence that PLAs discriminate against employers and workers, limit the pool of bidders, and raise construction costs. In a 2009 report by Dale Belman, of Michigan State University; Matthew M. Bodah of the University of Rhode Island and Peter Philips of the University of Utah, the authors stated that rather than increase cost, the agreements provide benefits to the community. According to their report, project cost is directly related to the complexity of a project, not the existence of an agreement. They found that PLAs are not suited to all projects, but some projects are good candidates for their use, such as highly complex construction projects. Studies have also considered how PLAs may benefit communities through hiring locals. In a paper focused on whether PLAs for projects developed by the Los Angeles Community College District (LACCD), the Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD), and the City of Los Angeles met local hiring goals, the author found that the goal of 30% local hires set by the PLAs was met.\n\nReports and studies addressing the cost impact of PLAs on construction projects have found that they may not lead to greater costs, such as a 2002 paper by the Harvard University Joint Center for Housing Studies, which states that the increased costs cited by opponents of PLAs is based on bids rather than end costs. According to the paper, a project's end costs would usually be higher than bid costs due to expenses that arise during construction. In addition, a 2004 report by the Director of General Services for Contra Costa County, California reported that bids for five of eight projects subject to a PLA were lower than the architect/engineer cost estimate. In 2004 a report written on the use of PLAs in Iowa states that PLA use increases efficiency and cost effectiveness of construction projects. \"Public-sector PLAs on complex projects or projects where timely project completion is important have been shown to provide the performance desired by contractors and project managers, who repeatedly use them.\" A 2009 paper concluded that there was difficulty in identifying the effect of PLAs on cost in construction of schools, due to the differences between schools built with PLAs and those built without them. The report stated that there was not any statistically significant evidence for an increase in costs for school construction.\n\nReports on the legal considerations affecting PLAs make the case that PLAs are an effective tool for labor relations. In a report in 1999, on the legality of PLAs, the authors stated that PLAs \"serve as a productive and stabilizing force in the construction industry.” This is supported by a UCLA study that challenged findings of the Beacon Hill Institute on PLAs, which found that in the private sector, the usage of PLAs \"creates continuity and stability of the work force at the job site\".\n\nSeveral studies by the Beacon Hill Institute (BHI) at Suffolk University in Boston, Massachusetts have concluded that PLAs increase construction costs. Studies in 2003, 2004 and 2006 examining the impact of PLAs on school construction in Massachusetts, Connecticut and New York, respectively, found that where PLAs were in use construction costs were increased, even when controlling for the size of project and type of school. The September 2003 study by the institute found that use of PLAs created a cost increase of almost 14% increase compared to a non-PLA project. The following year their study of PLAs in Connecticut found that PLAs increased costs by nearly 18%. A May 2006 study by BHI found that the use of PLAs on school construction projects in New York between 1996 and 2004 increased construction costs by 20%. This study controlled for the size of the project and type of school. A report on PLAs by BHI, published in 2009, examined whether claims made in Obama's executive order that PLAs have a positive economic impact are correct. The report considered the findings of the institute's studies, further case studies of PLA and non-PLA projects and addressed\ncriticisms of their previous studies and concluded that the justifications for PLA use in the executive order were not proven. In particular the report concluded that there was no economic benefit to taxpayers in using PLAs.\n\nAn independently-reviewed 2011 study by The National University System Institute for Policy Research analyzed the cost impact of PLAs on school construction in California from 1996 to 2008. The study analyzed 551 school construction projects and is reportedly the largest study of PLAs to have been undertaken to date. It found that the use of PLAs added between 13% and 15% to construction costs, which would represent a cost increase of between $28.90 and $32.49 per square foot when adjusted for inflation. However, this study's conclusions were strongly disputed by Dr. Dale Belman of Michigan State University, a long-time proponent of the use of PLAs and whose prior research it referenced repeatedly, and who claimed the study misrepresented his findings. He wrote the authors: \"Although your study has several serious statistical issues, at the end of the day, your results are basically consistent with those presented in my article on PLAs and Massachusetts school construction costs. The take-away from your results can be summarized as follows: When appropriate controls are included for differences in the characteristics of schools built including school type and location, building specifications, materials used etc., there is no statistical evidence that PLA schools are more costly compared to non PLA schools.\" Despite Dr. Belman's claims, the Association of California School Administrators and the California Association of School Business Officials released a memo on December 20, 2011 indicating that they found the study's results to be \"credible.\"\n\nIn 2010, the New Jersey Department of Labor studied the impact of government-mandated PLAs on the cost of school construction in New Jersey during 2008, and also found that school construction projects where a PLA was used had higher costs, per square foot and per student, than those without a PLA.\n\nEarlier studies also found increased costs when PLAs were used, including a study in 2000 of a Nevada Water Authority project PLA, which found that the project cost an additional $200,000 because the true low bidder refused to sign the PLA. The project then went to a union contractor whose bid was $200,000 higher. Also in 2000, a study commissioned by the Jefferson County, New York Board of Legislators examining the potential use of a PLA for the Jefferson County Courthouse Complex concluded that a PLA could result in additional costs of more than $955,000. The total estimated increase of costs for the projects, should a PLA be used, would have represented 7% of the total cost of the project.\n\nIn addition to increased costs of projects, studies have found that PLAs can lead to greater costs for nonunion contractors and can lower their employees' take home pay. A study was produced in 2009 by John R. McGowan of Saint Louis University, which found that nonunion workers on government projects with a PLA in place have reduced wages, compared with what they would receive for work on a non-PLA government project. In addition, nonunion employers would have to pay for additional benefits that their employees would be ineligible for and might be liable for pension fund withdrawal liability costs if the terms of the PLA mean they have to contribute to a union pension fund for the duration of the project.\n\nPLAs also may impact competition by discouraging nonunion bids, according to studies including a September 2001 study by Ernst & Young, commissioned by Erie County, New York. This study analyzed the impact of PLAs on public construction projects and concluded that the number of bidders was reduced for projects with a PLA, as \"the use of PLAs strongly inhibits participation in public bidding by non-union contractors.\" The Worcester Municipal Research Bureau produced a report in 2001, based on a number of studies of PLA use. The report stated that PLAs reduced the number of bidders on construction projects, and led to lower savings than would be possible where contractors are able to work under their usual arrangements for employees. In March 1995, an ABC study of the taxpayer costs for Roswell Park Cancer Institute in Buffalo, New York, assessed bids for the same project both before and after a PLA was temporarily imposed in 1995. It revealed that there were 30% fewer bidders to perform the work and that costs increased by more than 26%.\n\nIn terms of wider economic impact, a November 2000 Price Waterhouse Coopers study requested by the Los Angeles Unified School District was not able to confirm whether the project stabilization/labor agreement for the district's Proposition BB construction had produced either a positive or negative economic impact. In March 2006, the Public Interest Institute released a study that concludes that the PLA agreed for the construction of the Iowa Events Center project in downtown Des Moines, placed an “unnecessary burden” on local workers, businesses and taxpayers.\n\n"}
{"id": "35903522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35903522", "title": "R v Schoombie", "text": "R v Schoombie\n\nR v Schoombie is an important case in South African law, heard in the Appellate Division on 21 March 1945, with judgment handed down on 15 May, and Watermeyer CJ, Tindall JA, Greenberg JA and Davis AJA presiding.\n\nOn an indictment for attempted arson, it was proved\n\n\nThe accused was duly convicted.\n\nThe Appellate Division, upon a question of law reserved, held\n\n\nThe principles to be applied in deciding whether the actions of an accused person are mere acts of preparation or amount to an attempt to commit a crime were discussed, and the case of \"R v Nlhovo\" applied.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8183614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8183614", "title": "Ralph Rinzler Folklife Archives and Collections", "text": "Ralph Rinzler Folklife Archives and Collections\n\nThe Ralph Rinzler Folklife Archives and Collections is housed in the Smithsonian Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage in Washington, D.C., United States. \n\nIt is one of the Smithsonian archive collections; as such it serves as a pillar of institutional memory, preserving manuscripts, sound recordings, moving images, and other records of enduring cultural, scientific, historical, and legal value within museums, research centers, governments, businesses, and communities.\n\nThe Ralph Rinzler Archives consist of two major collections. The first is the Moses and Frances Asch collection, which consists of the original recordings, business records, correspondence, and photographic material that came to the Smithsonian with the purchase of Folkways Records in 1987. It also contains recordings on the Paredon, Cook, Dyer-Bennet, Fast Folk, and Monitor labels that have been subsequently acquired by the Smithsonian. These labels are currently operated by Smithsonian Folkways Recordings.\n\nThe Rinzler Archives also houses an extensive collection of recordings documenting ethnic music traditions from around the world, early American country music and bluegrass, blues, and examples of folk revival performances on other labels. Listening copies of most of the Folkways catalog are kept in the Archives, and are available to researchers. \n\nThe other major archival collection in the Rinzler Archives consists of the written, audio, and visual records of projects and exhibits sponsored by the Smithsonian Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage: most notably, more than three decades of recordings documenting fieldwork, research and performances related to the annual Smithsonian Folklife Festival (formerly known as the Festival of American Folklife), which takes place each summer on the National Mall of the United States in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe Archives' holdings are global in perspective, and include such topics as world ethnic performance traditions, historical and spoken word recordings, sounds of science and nature, occupational folklore, and family folklore. The collections are also strong in American, and more specifically Euro-American, African-American, Caribbean, and Native American music and performance traditions. These are living archives, from which recordings and videotapes are regularly issued or reissued for enjoyment and scholarly research.\n\n\nThe website is here .\n"}
{"id": "11572557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11572557", "title": "Regular sound correspondences between Hungarian and other Uralic languages", "text": "Regular sound correspondences between Hungarian and other Uralic languages\n\nThere are numerous regular sound correspondences between Hungarian and the other Uralic languages. For example, Hungarian \"á\" corresponds to Khanty \"o\" in certain positions, and Hungarian \"h\" corresponds to Khanty \"x\", while Hungarian final \"z\" corresponds to Khanty final \"t\". These can be seen in Hungarian \"ház\" (\"house\") and Khanty \"xot\" (\"house\"), or Hungarian \"száz\" (\"hundred\") and Khanty \"sot\" (\"hundred\").\n\nHungarian and Khanty are closely connected, either genealogically or as part of a language area. The distance between Hungarian and the Finnic languages is greater, but the correspondences are also regular. The relationship is most obvious when comparing all Uralic languages together, for then individual idiosyncrasies are averaged out, but here we will just compare Hungarian with Finnish and Estonian (two Finnic languages).\n\nOne important innovation of Hungarian is the lenition of the stop consonants *p *k in initial position.\n\n\n\n\nThe third stop inherited from Proto-Uralic, *t, did not undergo such a change.\n\nIn the middle of words (note that due to the loss of the word final vocals in the Old Hungarian period these are now at the end of the words), Hungarian has also lenited original stops, but in a different fashion.\n\n\n(Again, with the help of the other Uralic languages, the analogous developments *mp *ŋk → Hungarian /b g/, Finnic /mp ŋk/ could be supported.)\n\n\nTwo different regular correspondences can be found in Hungarian for Finnish and Estonian . The first is Hungarian :\n\nThe second is Hungarian zero:\n\nThese two correspondences represent two different original consonants. : is reconstructed as originating in Proto-Uralic *ś, while ∅ : is reconstructed as Proto-Uralic *s. Both correspondences can be seen simultaneously in the word for \"autumn\" (see above under *-k-), from Proto-Uralic *sükśi.\n\n\nExamples also include 'bit', 'to fear', 'cloud', 'fish', 'winter', 'flat', 'to push', 'bosom' listed above.\n\n\nFurther examples include (:) 'honey', 'liver', 'eye', (:) 'to plait', 'to see', 'sinew', (:) 'tear', 'palate', 'arrow', 'to lick' listed above. Word-internally a correspondence Hungarian : Finnic is also found, as seen in 'broth', 'name', and 'heart'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56310052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56310052", "title": "Routledge v McKay", "text": "Routledge v McKay\n\nRoutledge v McKay is a 1954 English contract law case, concerning the difference between a term and a representation.\n\nThe claimant bought a 1936 Douglas motorcycle outfit in a part-exchange deal which required him to pay a balance of £30. The registration documents falsely stated that it was a 1942 model, as a previous owner had earlier modified the bike and had wrongly registered it as a 1942. The current seller had, during negotiations, mentioned the 1942 date, but the actual deal only took place several days later.\n\nEven though the logbook clearly stated the bike's year as 1942, that statement was a mere representation and not a contractual term; nor was there any misrepresentation in this transaction. Furthermore, neither the owner who had made the false registration nor any of the intervening owners were liable to the current owner. The delay between the negotiations and the contract was a contributing factor to the decision.\n\nA term is an integral part of an agreement, whereas a representation is a pre-contractual statement which remains non-contractual unless and until it is adopted as a term. During negotiations, in the process of offer and acceptance, a representation may take the form of (i) an invitation to treat, (ii) a request for information, or (iii) a statement of intention; but once a valid contract is formed these distinctions serve no further purpose.\n\n"}
{"id": "1720067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1720067", "title": "Schatzkammer", "text": "Schatzkammer\n\nSchatzkammer, a German word which means \"treasury\" or \"treasure chamber\", is a term used in English for the collection of treasures, especially objet d'art in precious metals and jewels, of a ruler or other collector which are kept in a secure room and often found in the basement of a palace or castle. It also often included the wider types of object typical of the Renaissance cabinet of curiosities. A very small but evocative Renaissance room in a tower at Lacock Abbey was designed for keeping and viewing the treasures of the newly rich owner.\n\nThe term is normally used of the collections of European rulers or very wealthy families. Well-known examples are:\n\n\nChurch establishments also had treasuries where similar objects were kept, which are often now open as museums. Especially important and largely intact examples are:\n\n\nExamples outside Europe include:\n"}
{"id": "16925354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16925354", "title": "Small Throne Room of the Winter Palace", "text": "Small Throne Room of the Winter Palace\n\nThe Small Throne Room of the Winter Palace, St Petersburg, also known as the Peter the Great Memorial Hall, was created for Tsar Nicholas I in 1833, by the architect Auguste de Montferrand. Following a fire in 1837, in which most of the palace was destroyed, the room was recreated exactly as it had been before by the architect Vasily Stasov.\n\nDesigned in a loose Baroque style, the throne is recessed in an apse before a reredos, supported by two Corinthian columns of jasper, which contains a large canvas dedicated to Peter I with Minerva by Jacopo Amigoni. In the room proper above dado height the walls are lined with crimson velvet embellished with double-headed eagles of silver thread, above which is a shallow vaulted ceiling.\n\nSet in the opposing lunettes beneath the vaulting are paintings depicting the Battle of Poltava and the Battle of Lesnaya by Pietro Scotti (1768-1837) and Barnabas Medici. However, the focal point of the room is the silver-gilt throne of 1731, made in London by the Anglo-French gold-and-silver-smith Nicholas Clausen.\n\nHere, during the era of the Tsars, diplomats gathered on New Years Day to offer good wishes to the Tsar. Today, as part of the State Hermitage Museum, this room retains its original decoration.\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "34566833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34566833", "title": "Temple Island Collections Ltd v New English Teas Ltd", "text": "Temple Island Collections Ltd v New English Teas Ltd\n\nTemple Island v New English Teas was a case in the England and Wales Patents County Court, heard on 28 November 2011, in which Temple Island Collections Ltd. sued New English Teas Ltd. and Nicholas John Houghton over copyright infringement for using a monochrome image of the Houses of Parliament and London Bridge with a colour picture of a red London bus on the Westminster Bridge.\n\nThe defence turned largely on the fact that similar works had been pre-existent and seen by the defendants before the creation of the image at issue. Some of these images pre-dated the work the claimant had created; some did not. The defence also drew attention to differences between the images.\n\nJudge Birss QC, found for the claimant, as he found \"the defendants' work does reproduce a substantial part of the claimant's artistic work.\"\n\nBirss held that, while some aspects of the claimants' work were absent from the offending image, sufficient aspects were present to constitute copyright infringement, conversely he held that the claimant's submission of what would constitute an infringing work was over-broad saying \"I am sure there are many things satisfying the claimant's definition which would not infringe.\"\n\nBirss held that defence argument of prior works was irrelevant, since there was on the one hand no claim that the claimants work was influenced by these works, and on the other hand, there was a causal link between the defendants' desire to use an image like the claimant's image and the production of the offending image, that was not disturbed by the search for similar images.\n\nThe case caused some controversy, as appearing to widen the scope of copyright protection in the composition of visual images. Intellectual property barrister Jane Lambert expressed unease at the decision, over the move towards protection of idea rather than expression of an idea.\n\n"}
{"id": "1418095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1418095", "title": "The Bandy Papers", "text": "The Bandy Papers\n\nThe Bandy Papers is a series of novels chronicling the exploits of a World War I fighter ace named Bartholomew Wolfe Bandy. The author, Donald Jack, himself served in the RAF during World War II. Every book in the Bandy Papers series contains the word \"me\" in the title, as do many of the chapter titles, which can also be interpreted as photo captions. The Bandy Papers books are:\n\n\n\nBandy was born on July 14, 1893. Physically he is described as over 6 feet tall and with a face like a horse. His voice is high pitched and whiney and is said to resemble that of W.C. Fields, whom he once met. This combination seems to drive most people (and many animals) he meets to dislike him and as a result he has developed a \"stone face\" to counter these attacks (a defence that often backfires by inciting his enemies to greater levels of malice). His talents, although well disguised, are real and he has certainly been an influential (though minor) character in history.\n\nBandy was born and raised in Beamington, in the Ottawa Valley in Ontario, where his father was a minister. From his published papers, he seems to have had a difficult time fitting in with his school mates. There is a reference in \"Me Bandy, You Cissie\" that he was an invalid for a time during his childhood. He finished school and was at the University of Toronto Medical School when the First World War broke out.\n\nBandy volunteered for the infantry in 1916 after being kicked out of medical school and was commissioned as a 2nd lieutenant in the Canadian Army. After spending some time in the trenches, it was decided that the infantry was not entirely suited to his talents and so he was transferred into the Royal Flying Corps, where he stayed on and off for the rest of the war, until being sent to Russia to fight Bolsheviks, where he was captured by Red Russian forces at the Battle of Toulgas on November 11, 1918. His military career went from the heights of the Air Board to the lows of fighting in a Bicycle Battalion. He left the Air Force in 1920 as a Lieutenant acting Major General!\n\nAfter the war and his imprisonment in Russia, Bandy had short but illustrious careers in silent films, rum-running, politics, and airplane design. When several of his careers threatened to land him in prison (or worse, Cabinet), Bandy returned to Europe, flying via Iceland, in an attempt to restore his fortunes through the marketing of the Gander, an amphibious aircraft of his design. His plans came to naught when he lost the Gander during the rescue of a downed aviator in the English Channel. He was forced to seek employment as a lowly hospital porter until being sought out by the rescued aviator, who turned out to be the son of an Indian Maharajah. Offered employment in the Maharajah's air force, Bandy continued his long tradition of upsetting the powers that be by accepting this controversial appointment. This led to him being knighted, but he seldom used his title. It is mentioned that he flew for the Republicans in the Spanish Civil War, but this is not detailed. In World War II, Bandy again fought against Germany and became reacquainted with a son from a previous adventure. In the final volume of the series, Bandy faces Germany's top fighter pilot in combat before returning to the Soviet Union for the Yalta conference at the end of the war, where he has to cope with Stalin's paranoia and secret police.\n\nThe books are noted for their humour and word play, as well as technical and historic accuracy (except possibly in India). Three of the novels featuring Bandy won the Stephen Leacock Memorial Medal for Humour: \"Three Cheers for Me\" (1963), \"That's Me in the Middle\" (1974), and \"Me Bandy, You Cissie\" (1980).\n\n"}
{"id": "338869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338869", "title": "The Emperor's New Groove", "text": "The Emperor's New Groove\n\nThe Emperor's New Groove is a 2000 American animated slapstick buddy comedy film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and released by Walt Disney Pictures. The 40th animated Disney feature film, the film was directed by Mark Dindal, written by David Reynolds and starring David Spade, John Goodman, Eartha Kitt, Patrick Warburton and Wendie Malick. The film follows a selfish young Incan emperor named Kuzco who is transformed into a llama by his ex-advisor Yzma. In order for the emperor to change back into a human, he trusts a village leader named Pacha who escorts him back to the palace.\n\nDevelopment for the film began in 1994 where it was conceived as a musical epic titled \"Kingdom of the Sun\". Following his directorial debut with \"The Lion King\", Roger Allers recruited English musician Sting to compose songs for the film. Because of the underwhelming box office performances of \"Pocahontas\" and \"The Hunchback of Notre Dame\" Mark Dindal was brought in as co-director in order to add a comedic mood. Due to poor test screenings, creative differences with Dindal and production falling behind schedule, Allers departed the project in which the film shifted from its dramatic musical approach into a more lighthearted comedy film. A documentary about the making of the film, titled \"The Sweatbox\", details the production troubles that the film endured during its six years of development.\n\n\"The Emperor's New Groove\" was released in theaters on December 15, 2000 where it performed disappointingly at the box office compared to the string of successful Disney movies released in the 1990s, grossing $169 million on a $100 million budget, but later found considerably larger success in home media where it became the top-selling DVD release of 2001. It received generally positive reviews from critics who praised it as one of the best films released during Disney's post-Renaissance era and the most comedic.\n\nIt was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song for the song \"My Funny Friend and Me\" performed by Sting but lost to \"Things Have Changed\" by Bob Dylan from \"Wonder Boys\". A direct-to-video sequel to the film titled \"Kronk's New Groove\", was released in 2005 and an animated television series titled \"The Emperor's New School\" aired on Disney Channel from 2006 to 2008.\n\nNarrated by himself throughout the film, Kuzco is the 18-year-old selfish and egotistical emperor of the Inca kingdom who routinely punishes anyone who disappoints him or \"throw off his groove\". Kuzco meets up with Pacha, a kind peasant and village leader, and tells him that he plans to demolish Pacha's hilltop family home to build himself a lavish summer resort called \"Kuzcotopia\", leaving Pacha despondent. When Kuzco later fires his conniving adviser Yzma, she, along with her dim-witted henchman Kronk, plots to take the throne. The pair attempt to poison the emperor at dinner, but due to a mix up with the labels on Yzma's vials, they inadvertently give him a potion that transforms him into a llama. When the two knock Kuzco unconscious and stuff him in a sack, Yzma orders Kronk to dispose of him. Kronk has a stroke of conscience and saves him, but unfortunately misplaces the sack on a cart belonging to Pacha.\n\nPacha returns home, unaware of the unconscious llama on his cart. When he wakes, Kuzco blames Pacha for his transformation and orders him to return him to the capital. Pacha offers to do so only if Kuzco changes his mind about Kuzcotopia, to which Kuzco at first refuses. However, after running afoul of the local wildlife, he accepts Pacha's offer, secretly planning to go back on his word once he is safe. The two survive many ordeals in the jungle, and Pacha finds Kuzco has a good side to him underneath his ego. Meanwhile, Yzma has taken the throne, but soon learns that Kronk failed to kill Kuzco. The two set out to find Kuzco.\n\nBoth pairs arrive at a jungle diner at the same time. Pacha overhears Yzma's plan to kill him, but Kuzco does not believe him, thinking that Yzma and Kronk are out to rescue him. However, Kuzco soon overhears more of Yzma and Kronk's scheming. Thinking no one in his kingdom misses him, he leaves the diner on his own, planning on living out his days as a llama. Pacha catches up, still willing to help Kuzco return to normal. Kuzco apologizes for his selfishness and they set off for Pacha's house to resupply.\n\nWhen they arrive, Yzma is already there. Pacha has his family stall Yzma, giving him and Kuzco a head start back to the capital. They head to Yzma's laboratory and numerous transformation potions, including the antidote, but Yzma and Kronk have somehow arrived first. Yzma orders Kronk to kill the pair, but he refuses and attempts to turn on her. After dropping him down a trap door, she orders her guards to capture the pair under the pretense that they killed the emperor. Pacha grabs a handful of vials, while he and Kuzco flee, trying the various vials during their flight to find the right one. As they are cornered on the ledges of a giant wall structure, they find they are down to two vials. During a scuffle, Yzma falls onto one of the vials and is transformed into a \"helpless\" kitten. After some hi-jinx, Kuzco and Pacha recover the other vial to which Kuzco drinks it.\n\nNow human again and a more selfless ruler, Kuzco takes Pacha's suggestion of moving Kuzcotopia over to a neighbouring, unoccupied hill next to Pacha's village. Some time later, Kuzco joins Pacha and his family at his modest resort while elsewhere Kronk has become a scout leader and trains a new batch of scouts, including the reluctant Yzma, who remains a kitten.\n\n\nThe idea of \"Kingdom of the Sun\" was conceived by Roger Allers and Matthew Jacobs, and development on the project began in 1994. Upon pitching the project to then-Disney CEO and chairman Michael Eisner, Allers recalled Eisner saying \"it has all of the elements of a classic Disney film,\" and because of his directorial success on \"The Lion King\" that same year, Eisner allowed Allers to have free rein with both the casting and the storyline. By January 1995, \"Variety\" reported that Allers was working on \"an Inca-themed original story\".\n\nIn 1996, the production crew traveled to Machu Picchu in Peru, to study Inca artifacts and architecture and the landscape this empire was created in.\n\n\"Kingdom of the Sun\" was to have been a tale of a greedy, selfish emperor (voiced by David Spade) who finds a peasant (voiced by Owen Wilson) who looks just like him; the emperor swaps places with the peasant to escape his boring life and have fun, much as in author Mark Twain's archetypal novel \"The Prince and the Pauper\". However, the villainous witch Yzma has plans to summon Supay (the evil god of death), and destroy the sun so that she may become young and beautiful forever (the sun gives her wrinkles, so she surmises that living in a world of darkness would prevent her from aging). Discovering the switch between the prince and the peasant, Yzma turns the real emperor into a llama and threatens to reveal the pauper's identity unless he obeys her. During his time as the emperor and doing Yzma's orders, the pauper falls in love with the emperor's soon to be fiancé Nina (voiced by Carla Gugino) who thinks he is the emperor that has changed his ways. Meanwhile, the emperor-llama learns humility in his new form and even comes to love a female llama-herder named Mata (voiced by Laura Prepon). Together, the girl and the llama set out to undo the witch's plans. The book \"Reel Views 2\" says the film would have been a \"romantic comedy musical in the 'traditional' Disney style\".\n\nFollowing the underwhelming box office performances of \"Pocahontas\" and \"The Hunchback of Notre Dame\", studio executives felt the project was growing too ambitious and serious for audiences following test screenings, and felt it needed more comedy. In early 1997, producer Randy Fullmer contacted Mark Dindal, who had just wrapped up work on \"Cats Don't Dance\", and offered him to be co-director on \"Kingdom of the Sun\". Meanwhile, Allers personally called Sting, in the wake of Elton John's success with \"The Lion King's\" soundtrack, to compose several songs for the film. He agreed, but on the condition that his filmmaker wife Trudie Styler could \"document the process of the production\". This film, which was eventually entitled \"The Sweatbox\", was made by Xingu Films (their own production company). Along with collaborator David Hartley, Sting composed eight songs inextricably linked with the original plot and characters.\n\nIn the summer of 1997, it was announced that Roger Allers and Mark Dindal would serve as the film's directors and Randy Fullmer as producer. David Spade and Eartha Kitt had been confirmed to voice the emperor, Manco, and the villainess, while Carla Gugino was in talks for the role of Nina. Harvey Fierstein was also cast as Hucua, Yzma's sidekick.\n\nBy the summer of 1998, it was apparent that \"Kingdom of the Sun\" was not far along enough in production to be released in the summer of 2000 as planned. At this time, one of the Disney executives reportedly walked into Randy Fullmer's office and, placing his thumb and forefinger a quarter-inch (5 mm) apart, stated \"your film is this close to being shut down.\" Fullmer approached Allers, and informed him of the need to finish the film on time for its summer 2000 release as crucial promotional deals with McDonald's, Coca-Cola, and other companies were already established and depended upon meeting that release date. Allers acknowledged that the production was falling behind, but was confident that, with an extension of between six months to a year, he could complete the film. When Fullmer denied Allers's request for an extension, the director decided to leave the project. On September 23, 1998, the project was dead with production costs amounting towards $25–30 million and twenty-five percent of the film animated.\n\nUpset that Allers left the project, Michael Eisner reportedly gave Fullmer two weeks to salvage the film or production would be shut down. Fullmer and Dindal halted production for six months to retool the project retitling it to \"Kingdom in the Sun\", making it the first Disney animated feature to have an extensive overhaul since \"Pinocchio\". Meanwhile, following Eric Goldberg's pitch for the \"Rhapsody in Blue\" segment for \"Fantasia 2000\", the animators were reassigned to work on the segment. In the interim, Chris Williams, who was a storyboard artist during \"Kingdom of the Sun\", came up with the idea of making Pacha an older character as opposed to the teenager that he was in the original story. Following up on the new idea, former late-night comedy writer David Reynolds stated, \"I pitched a simple comedy that's basically a buddy road picture with two guys being chased in the style of a Chuck Jones 'toon, but faster paced. Disney said, 'Give it a shot.\" One of the new additions to the revised story was the scene-stealing character of Yzma's sidekick Kronk. Meanwhile, the name Manco was changed to Kuzco following Fullmer's discovery of the Japanese slang term \"manko\", which translates to cunt. Due in part of the production shutdown, Sting began to develop schedule conflicts with his songwriting duties interfering with his work on his next album he was planning to record in Italy. \"I write the music, and then they're supposed to animate it, but there are constantly changes being made. It's constantly in turnaround,\" the singer/songwriter admitted, but \"I'm enjoying it.\" Because of the shutdown, the computer-animated film \"Dinosaur\" assumed the summer 2000 release date originally scheduled for \"Kingdom\".\n\nAndreas Deja declined to return to the film observing his more serious version of Yzma was incompatible with the wackier, comedic tone of the film, and moved to Orlando, Florida, to work on \"Lilo & Stitch\". Animator Dale Baer would replace Deja as the supervising animator for Yzma. Fulmer would inform Sting by telephone that his songs, related to specific scenes and characters that were now gone, had to be dropped. Bitter about the removal of his songs, the pop musician commented that \"At first, I was angry and perturbed. Then I wanted some vengeance.\" Disney eventually agreed to allow three of the six deleted songs as bonus tracks on the soundtrack album such as Yzma's villain song titled \"Snuff Out the Light\", the love song titled \"One Day She'll Love Me\", and a dance number called \"Walk the Llama Llama\". The plot elements such as the romance between the llama herder Pacha and Manco's betrothed Nina, the sun-capturing villain scheme, similarities to \"The Prince and the Pauper\" stories, and Inca mythology were dropped. The character of Hucua was also dropped from the story, though he would make a cameo appearance as the candle holder during the dinner scene in the finished film. Kuzco – who was a supporting character in the original story – eventually became the protagonist.\n\nBy summer 1999, cast members Owen Wilson, Harvey Fierstein, and Trudie Styler were dropped from the film. Eartha Kitt and David Spade remained in the cast, Dindal commented, \"[a]nd then John Goodman and Patrick Warburton came aboard.\" After Sting's songs for \"Kingdom of the Sun\" were dropped from the new storyline, Sting remained on the project, though he was told by the studio that \"All we want is a beginning and an end song.\" The song, \"Perfect World\", was approached \"to open the movie with a big, fun number that established the power of Kuzco and showed how he controlled the world\", according to Feature Animation president Thomas Schumacher. The filmmakers had asked Sting to perform the song for the film, though Sting declined telling them that he was too old to sing it and that they should find someone younger and hipper. They instead went with Tom Jones, who is eleven years older than Sting.\n\nIn February 2000, the new film was announced as \"The Emperor's New Groove\" with its new story centering on a spoiled Inca Emperor – voiced by David Spade – who through various twists and falls ends up learning the meaning of true happiness from a poor peasant, played by John Goodman. The release date was scheduled for December 2000. Despite the phrasing of the title, the film bears no relation to Hans Christian Andersen's classic Danish fairy tale \"The Emperor's New Clothes\" (although both stories involve an emperor being tricked). However, according to Mark V. Moorhead of the \"Houston Press\", the film's plot does bear some resemblance to that of \"The Golden Ass\" by Lucius Apuleius, wherein a man is turned into a donkey.\n\nEisner worried that the new story was too close in tone to Disney's 1997 film \"Hercules\", which had performed decently yet below expectations at the American box office. Dindal and Fullmer assured him that \"The Emperor's New Groove\", as the film was now called, would have a much smaller cast, making it easier to involve audiences. Towards the end of production, the film's ending originally had Kuzco building his Kuzcotopia amusement park on another hill by destroying a rainforest near Pacha's home, and inviting Pacha and his family to visit. Horrified at the ending, Sting commented that \"I wrote them a letter and said, 'You do this, I'm resigning because this is exactly the opposite of what I stand for. I've spent 20 years trying to defend the rights of indigenous people and you're just marching over them to build a theme park. I will not be party to this.\" The ending was rewritten so that Kuzco constructs a shack similar to Pacha's and spends his vacation among the villagers.\n\nDuring production on \"Kingdom of the Sun\", Andreas Deja was the initial supervising animator of Yzma, and incorporated supermodeling poses published in magazines in order to capture Yzma's sultry, seductive persona. Nik Ranieri was originally slated as the supervising animator for Yzma's rocky sidekick, Hucua. During the research trip to Peru in 1996, Ranieri acknowledged that \"I was researching for a character that looked like a rock so I was stuck drawing rocks for the whole trip. Then when we got back they piled it into this story about ancient Incas.\" Mark Pudleiner was to be the supervising animator of Kuzco's proposed maiden, Nina. In early 1997, David Pruiksma came on board to animate the llama, Snowball. According to Pruiksma, Snowball was \"a silly, vain and egotistical character, rather the dumb blond of the llama set. I really enjoyed developing the character and doing some early test animation on her as well. Before I left the film (and it was ultimately shelved), I created model sheets for not only Snowball, but for the rest of the herd of seven other llamas and for Kuzco as a Llama.\" When the film was placed on production shutdown, Pruiksma transferred to work on \"\" being developed concurrently and ultimately the llama characters were dropped from the storyline.\n\nFollowing the production overhaul and the studio's attempts for more cost-efficient animated features, Mark Dindal urged for \"a simpler approach that emphasized the characters rather than overwhelming special effects or cinematic techniques\". Because of the subsequent departure of Deja, animator Dale L. Baer inherited the character of Yzma. Using Eartha Kitt's gestures during recording sessions, Baer commented that \"She has a natural voice for animation and really got into the role. She would gesture wildly and it was fun just to watch her. She would come into each session almost serious and very professional and suddenly she would go wild and break up laughing.\" Ranieri was later asked to serve as the supervising animator of Kuzco (as a human and a llama), though he would admit being reluctant at first until he discovered that Kuzco \"had a side to him, there was a lot of comedy potential and as a character he went through an arc\". Pudleiner was also reassigned to work as an animator of the human version of Kuzco. In addition to drawing inspiration from David Spade during recording sessions, the Kuzco animation team studied llamas at the zoo, visited a llama farm, watched nature documentaries, and even observed the animals up close when they came for a visit to the studio. For the rewritten version of Pacha, animator Bruce W. Smith observed that \"Pacha is probably the most human of all the characters,\" and further added that he \"has more human mannerisms and realistic traits, which serve as a contrast to the cartoony llama he hangs out with. He is the earthy guy who brings everything back into focus. Being a big fellow about six-foot-five and weighing about 250 pounds we had to work hard to give him a sense of weight and believability in his movement.\"\n\nActual animation began in 1999, involving 400 artists and 300 technicians and production personnel. Outside of the Walt Disney Feature Animation studio building in Burbank, California, animators located at Walt Disney Feature Animation Florida and Disney Animation France assisted in the production of \"The Emperor's New Groove\". During the last eighteen months of production, a 120-crew of clean-up artists would take an animation cel drawing from the animation department, and place a new piece of paper over the existing image in order to draw a cleaner, more refined image. \"We're basically the final designers,\" said clean-up supervisor Vera Pacheco, whose crew worked on more than 200,000 drawings for \"Groove\".\n\nAfter the release date had shifted to winter 2000, similarities were noted between the film and DreamWorks Animation's \"The Road to El Dorado\". Marc Lument, a visual development artist on \"El Dorado\", claimed \"It really was a race, and Katzenberg wanted ours out before theirs.\" Lument also added that, \"We didn't know exactly what they were doing, but we had the impression it was going to be very similar. Whoever came out second would face the impression that they copied the other.\" Fullmer and Dindal denied the similarities with the latter commenting \"This version [\"The Emperor's New Groove\"] was well in the works when that movie came out,\" and further added \"Early on, when our movie got to be very comic, all of us felt that you can't be making this farce about a specific group of people unless we are going to poke fun at ourselves. This didn't seem to be a proper choice about Incas or any group of people. It was more of a fable.\"\n\nThe marketing campaign for \"The Emperor's New Groove\" was relatively restrained as Disney opted to heavily promote the release of \"102 Dalmatians\", which was released during Thanksgiving. Nevertheless, the film was accompanied with six launcher toys of Kuzco, Kuzco as a llama, Pacha, Yzma, Yzma as a cat, and Kronk accompanied with Happy Meals at McDonald's in North America. The European, Asian and Australian toys from 2001 were different from the North American set. Stuffed animals were also made and sold in places like The Disney Store.\n\nThe standard VHS and DVD was released on May 1, 2001, as well as a \"2-Disc Collector's Edition\" that included bonus features such as Sting's music video of \"My Funny Friend and Me\", a Rascal Flatts music video of \"Walk the Llama Llama\" from the soundtrack, audio commentary with the filmmakers, a multi-skill level Set Top Game with voice talent from the movie, and a deleted scene among other features. Unlike its theatrical box office performance, the film performed better on home video, becoming the top-selling home video release of 2001. In September 2001, it was reported that 6 million VHS units were sold amounting towards $89 million in revenue. On DVD, it was also reported it had sold twice as many sales. The overall revenue averaged toward $125 million according to Adams Media Research.\n\nDisney re-released a single-disc special edition called \"The New Groove Edition\" on October 18, 2005. Disney digitally remastered and released \"The Emperor's New Groove\" on Blu-ray on June 11, 2013 bundled in a two-movie collection combo pack with its direct-to-video sequel \"Kronk's New Groove\". On its first weekend, it sold 14,000 Blu-ray units grossing $282,000.\n\nOn its opening weekend, \"The Emperor's New Groove\" premiered at fourth place grossing about $10 million behind strong competitions such as \"What Women Want\", \"Dude, Where's My Car?\", and \"How the Grinch Stole Christmas\". Overall, the film grossed $89.3 million at the United States box office and an additional $80 million worldwide—totals considerably lower than those for most of the Disney Feature Animation productions released in the 1990s, and which were considered disappointing for the company.\n\nBecause of its pre-Columbian setting and Latin American flavor, Disney spent $250,000 in its marketing campaign towards the Latino market releasing dual English and Spanish-language theatrical prints in sixteen multiplexes across heavily populated Latino areas in Los Angeles, California in contrast to releasing dubbed or subtitled theatrical prints of their previous animated features in foreign markets. By January 2001, following nineteen days into its theatrical general release, the Spanish-dubbed prints were pulled from multiplexes as Latino Americans opted to watch the English-language prints with its grossing averaging $571,000 in comparison to $96,000 for the former.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, \"The Emperor's New Groove\" holds an 85% approval rating based on 128 reviews and an average of 7.1/10. The site's critical consensus reads: \"\"The Emperor's New Groove\" isn't the most ambitious animated film, but its brisk pace, fresh characters, and big laughs make for a great time for the whole family.\" On Metacritic, the film has a score of 70 out of 100 based on 28 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nWriting for \"Variety\", Robert Koehler commented the film \"may not match the groovy business of many of the studio's other kidpix, but it will be remembered as the film that established a new attitude in the halls of Disney's animation unit\". Roger Ebert, writing his review for \"Chicago Sun-Times\", awarded the film 3 (out of 4) stars distinguishing the film as \"a goofy slapstick cartoon, with the attention span of Donald Duck\" that is separate from what's known as animated features. Ebert would later add that \"it doesn't have the technical polish of a film like \"Tarzan\", but is a reminder that the classic cartoon look is a beloved style of its own.\" \"Entertainment Weekly\" critic Lisa Schwarzbaum graded the film a B+, describing it as a \"hip, funny, mostly nonmusical, decidedly non-epic family picture, which turns out to be less of a hero's journey than a meeting of sitcom minds\".\n\nPublished in \"The Austin Chronicle\", Marc Savlov gave the film 2/5 stars noting the film \"suffers from a persistent case of narrative backsliding that only serves to make older members of the audience long for the days of the dwarves, beauties, and poisoned apples of Disney-yore, and younger ones squirm in their seats\". Savlov continued to express his displeasure in the animation in comparison to the previous year's \"Tarzan\" writing it \"is also a minor letdown, with none of the ecstatic visual tour de force.\" Movie reviewer Bob Strauss acknowledged the film is \"funny, frantic and colorful enough to keep the small fry diverted for its short but strained 78 minutes\", though except for \"some nice voice work, a few impressive scale gags and interesting, Inca-inspired design elements, there is very little here for the rest of the family to latch onto\". Strauss would target the massive story overhaul during production as the main problem.\n\nIn 2018, \"The Emperor's New Groove\" was named the 16th best Disney animated film by IGN.\n\n\"The Sweatbox\" is a documentary that chronicled the tumultuous collaboration of Sting and David Hartley with the Disney studios to compose six songs for \"Kingdom of the Sun\" (the film's working title). The documentary featured interviews from directors Roger Allers and Mark Dindal, producer Randy Fullmer, Sting (whose wife created the documentary), Disney story artists, and the voice cast being dismayed by the new direction. Disney was not believed to be opposing Trudie Styler's documentary with Disney animation executive Thomas Schumacher, who had seen footage, commenting that \"I think it's going to be great!\"\n\nThe film premiered at the 2002 Toronto International Film Festival, but has gone virtually unseen by the public ever since. Disney owns the rights, but has never officially released it. In March 2012, a workprint of the documentary was leaked online and was uploaded onto YouTube, by a United Kingdom cartoonist, before it was ultimately pulled. As of April 2015, some scenes from the documentary could be seen from the home media release, including the behind the scenes and the making of \"My Funny Friend and Me.\"\n\nIn April 2005, it was announced that DisneyToon Studios was producing a direct-to-video sequel titled \"Kronk's New Groove\" which was released on December 13, 2005, followed by an animated television series on Disney Channel titled \"The Emperor's New School\". Patrick Warburton, Eartha Kitt and Wendie Malick reprised their roles for the sequel and series while J.P. Manoux replaced David Spade for the series and Fred Tatasciore voiced Pacha in season 1. John Goodman subsequently reprises his role for the second and final season for the series.\n\nKuzco appears as a guest in the animated television series, \"Disney's House of Mouse\", and its direct-to-video spin-off film \"\".\n\nTwo video games were developed and released concurrent with the film. The first, for the Sony PlayStation, was developed by Argonaut Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment of America. The second, for the Nintendo Game Boy Color, was developed by Sandbox and published by Ubisoft. Both titles were released in PAL territories the following year. The PlayStation version was re-released for the North American PlayStation Network on July 27, 2010.\n\nThe Tokyo DisneySea rollercoaster attraction \"Raging Spirits\" took visual inspiration for its Inca ruins theme from the buildings in the film with a structure based on Kuzco's palace similarly crowning the ruins site.\n\nDVD media\n"}
{"id": "21284116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21284116", "title": "The Penguin Guide to Recorded Classical Music", "text": "The Penguin Guide to Recorded Classical Music\n\nThe Penguin Guide to Recorded Classical Music (formerly The Penguin Guide to Compact Discs and, from 2003 to 2006, The Penguin Guide to Compact Discs and DVDs) was a widely distributed annual publication from Britain published by Penguin Books that reviewed and rated currently available recordings of classical music. It was written by Ivan March, a music journalist, consultant and former professional musician; Edward Greenfield, former music critic of \"The Guardian\" newspaper and Robert Layton, music writer and lecturer. All three were also reviewers for the UK classical music periodical \"Gramophone\". From 2008-2010, a fourth contributor was listed also as a co-author, Paul Czajkowski, who had been listed an editor from the 2002 book.\n\nThe \"Guide\" was often found in the classical departments of record stores. In earlier editions, the Guide awarded each recording a rating of between one and three stars, with extraordinarily favoured recordings receiving a rosette. From 2007-2010, the publication used four stars to denote records which are \"exceptional issue[s] on every count\". DVDs of operas and classical music concerts and Super Audio Compact Discs were also reviewed.\n\nAs provided by \"The Penguin Guide To Recorded Classical Music\":\n\n\nNOTE: A star in brackets means there is some qualification to the performance or recording. A bracket around all three stars usually denotes an outstanding historic performance, usually in mono.\n\nThe guidebook first appeared in 1960 as \"The Stereo Record Guide\", in response to the then recent emergence of stereo LP recordings. Up to 1968 the writing team comprised Ivan March, Edward Greenfield and Denis Stevens. Penguin Books, having published guides to bargain records (1966, 1970 and 1972), began publishing the guides in 1975. At that time, as the reviewers concede it was then possible to include almost all stereo recordings in the field.\n\nAdditional volumes were printed to cover cassettes, and in the 1984 Guide compact discs were added for the first time. By the 1990 revision so completely had CDs come to dominate that LPs were omitted altogether. Since 1997, the main guide was supplemented by alternately published 'yearbooks', adding new recordings and recommended issues for that particular year. Several other supplementary volumes were released covering 'bargain' recordings. Additionally, after 2003, classical music DVDs were incorporated, initially as an appendix, but, from the 2006 edition, in the main body of the reviews themselves.\n\nWhilst these other volumes added further reviews, the authors admitted that attempting to cover all releases was impossible, and instead only the 'cream' of available recordings could be covered.\n\nThis more selective approach, coupled with a perceived British bias, led to criticism, on internet newsgroups and elsewhere. However, as even some critics agreed a project on this scale and on this topic (inevitably a subjective affair) could not have been expected to suit all perspectives.\n\nThe final edition of the Guide was the 2010 edition, published in November, 2009. Subsequently, for two years, the authors collaborated on a \"Penguin Guide to the 1000 Finest Classical Recordings: The Must-Have CDs and DVDs\", less authoritative than the previous Guide and less than half its length. No related publication has been issued since September, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "54054521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54054521", "title": "Vanessa Leggett", "text": "Vanessa Leggett\n\nVanessa Leggett (née Levrier; born May 18, 1968) is a freelance journalist, author, lecturer and First Amendment advocate who was jailed by the U.S. Justice Department for 168 days for protecting sources and research notes for an independent book about a federal murder-for-hire case. It is the longest contempt-of-court imprisonment of a journalist in United States history for protecting sources.\n\nLeggett, the daughter of a Houston oil trader, earned her bachelor's degree in English and a master's degree in liberal arts from the University of St. Thomas (Texas).\n\nIn April 1997, the body of Houston, Texas, socialite Doris Angleton was discovered in her home. She died from 13 gunshot wounds to her face and chest. At the time of the death, her twin daughters and husband, Robert Angleton, a millionaire and former bookie, were at a softball game.\n\nLeggett researched the case for five years. In 1998, in a jailhouse interview of Roger Angleton, a suspect in a murder-for-hire plot. Leggett compiled notes and hours of audio tape that reportedly detailed how Roger's brother Robert hired him to murder his brother's wife Doris. The interviews occurred just before Roger's suicide in his Harris County jail cell and before Robert's trial.\n\nOn June 19, 2001, U.S. District Judge Melinda Harmon ordered Leggett to appear in court the next day with her notes and tapes for a book she was researching about the murder. The order was in response to a grand jury that had convened to investigate the possibility of filing federal murder charges against the victim's husband, Robert Angleton. Leggett, appearing in court on June 20, 2001, refused to turn over her notes, citing freedom of the press. She was then held in civil contempt of court and jailed by the U.S. Justice Department for refusing to turn over her notes.\n\nNews organizations, publications and journalists championed Leggett's case, advocating that the public\ninterest requires protecting journalists in Leggett's position. \"The New York Times\" called Leggett's incarceration \"a brazen assault on 1st Amendment values and the public interest in a free press.\"\n\nThe Center for Individual Freedom filed an amicus brief in support of Leggett's petition asking the U.S. Supreme Court to hear her case. The center also contributed to her legal defense fund. In addition, the Society of Professional Journalists, through its Legal Defense Fund, paid half of Leggett's legal expenses.\n\nShe was released on January 4, 2002, after serving the maximum sentence, from the Houston Federal Detention Center after 168 days of incarceration on the civil contempt charge when the federal grand jury completed its term. Leggett said to reporters as she walked out of jail, \"This is not so much about me. It's about the public's right to a free and independent press.\"\n\nAfter her release, Leggett, appearing on the \"Charlie Rose\" show in April 2004, said, \"(My sources) had taken a chance by cooperating with me and giving me information and trusting me with that information. And I felt obligated to honor that. When I realized that underlying this was an assault on the 1st Amendment, it became something much larger than just my sources or just my book. It was about protecting the free flow of information to the public.\"\n\nLeggett signed a book contract in 2002 with Crown Publishers about the Angleton murder for a reported $600,000 advance.\n\nShe continued her career as a freelance writer, including a long-form first-person account for \"Texas Monthly\" about her 5-1/2 months behind bars at the Federal Detention Center in Houston, as well as conducting an exclusive interview in 2015 for \"Esquire\" magazine with accused serial killer Robert Durst.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2016, Leggett taught literature, criminology and writing courses at the University of Houston-Downtown, including at the university's Criminal Justice Training Center, where she taught Texas police recruits and lectured veteran homicide investigators.\n\nIn 2002, she headlined with journalist Bob Woodward at the 23rd Annual Washington Writers Conference held at the National Press Club. At the same event, Leggett was given the Washington Independent Writers' President's Award. In addition, the Washington Independent Writers' Legal and Educational Fund presented Leggett with a $1,000 check for her stand in support of the First Amendment.\n\nShe also lectured at the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the Swedish National Board of Forensic Medicine, and the Netherlands Institute for the Study of Crime and Law Enforcement.\n\nShe gave the keynote address at the Institute for Ethics and Journalism's 2007 conference, which was sponsored by the Knight Foundation's Program in Journalism Ethics and Washington and Lee University's department of journalism and mass communications. In 2015, she sat on the First Amendment Advocacy panel at the National Press Club and discussed the need for stronger legal protections for journalists. And in 2016, she spoke at the International Academy of Investigative Psychology's annual conference at John Jay College of Criminal Justice.\n\nShe has also given talks to the New York City Bar Association and the FBI Academy's Behavioral Science Unit.\n\nThe FBI Academy, U.S. Department of Justice, released two books by Leggett, \"The Varieties of Homicide and its Research\", published in 1999, and \"The Diversity of Homicide\", co-authored by Leggett, Paul Blackman and John Jarvis, published in 2000.\n\n\nShe is married to Doak Leggett.\n\n"}
{"id": "20299358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20299358", "title": "Visual dictionary", "text": "Visual dictionary\n\nA visual dictionary is a dictionary that primarily uses pictures to illustrate the meaning of words. Visual dictionaries are often organized by themes, instead of being an alphabetical list of words. For each theme, an image is labeled with the correct word to identify each component of the item in question. Visual dictionaries can be monolingual or multilingual, providing the names of items in several languages. An index of all defined words is usually included to assist finding the correct illustration that defines the word.\n\nSome international visual dictionary publishers include Oxford University Press, QA International and Dorling Kindersley.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44509394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44509394", "title": "YCSB", "text": "YCSB\n\nThe Yahoo! Cloud Serving Benchmark (YCSB) is an open-source specification and program suite for evaluating retrieval and maintenance capabilities of computer programs. It is often used to compare relative performance of NoSQL database management systems.\n\nThe original benchmark was developed by workers in the research division of Yahoo! who released it in 2010 with the stated goal of \"facilitating performance comparisons of the new generation\nof cloud data serving systems\", particularly for transaction-processing workloads which differed from ones measured by benchmarks designed for more traditional database management systems.\nYCSB was contrasted with the TPC-H benchmark from the Transaction Processing Performance Council, with YCSB being called a big data benchmark while TPC-H is a decision support system benchmark.\n\nYCSB was used by DBMS vendors for \"benchmark marketing\". It has been used in scholarly or tutorial discussions, particularly for Apache HBase. It has been used for multiple-product comparisons by industry observers such as Network World (comparing Cassandra, MongoDB, and Riak), Thumbtack Technologies (comparing Aerospike, Cassandra, Couchbase, and MongoDB), and the Polytechnic Institute and University of Coimbra (comparing Cassandra, HBase, Elasticsearch, MongoDB, Oracle NoSQL, OrientDB, Redis, Scalaris, Tarantool, and Voldemort). \nSanDisk Corporation published results measured on the Oracle NoSQL Database.\n"}
