{"id": "32586535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32586535", "title": "A Prospect of Derby", "text": "A Prospect of Derby\n\nA Prospect of Derby is a 1725 painting by an unknown artist that shows the layout of Derby in the early 18th century.\n\nOn the left is a house called Castlefield that was home to the Borrow family. There are paintings of Isaac, Thomas and Ann Borrow in Derby Museum and Art Gallery. Left of centre is Exeter House which is no longer standing but came to notability when it played host to Bonnie Prince Charlie when he decided to turn back with his Scottish armies and not go to London to take the crown. The large buildings to the right are mills powered by the River Derwent. Although one of the buildings is now demolished the right hand mill is now part of a World Heritage site and was Derby Industrial Museum.\n\nThe painting is displayed (in 2011) in Derby Museum in the room reserved for the Hanson Log Boat.\n\nThe painting was bought by Derby Museum and Art Gallery in 2006 from a European collector via Sotheby's.\n"}
{"id": "55347924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55347924", "title": "Arthur Hollick", "text": "Arthur Hollick\n\nCharles Arthur Hollick (February 6, 1857 – March 11, 1933), known widely as Arthur Hollick, was an American paleobotanist. He was curator of fossil plants at Columbia University and the New York Botanical Garden. Born in New Brighton, Staten Island, New York, he received a Bachelor of Philosophy from Columbia School of Mines in 1879 and his doctorate at George Washington University (then known Columbian College) in 1897. \n"}
{"id": "50680105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50680105", "title": "Ashton Sanborn", "text": "Ashton Sanborn\n\nAshton Sanborn (1882–1970) was an American archaeologist and museum director. He was the executive secretary of the American Red Cross Commission to Palestine (now known as Israel) from 1918 to 1919. He went on archaeological expeditions to Egypt in the 1920s. He served as the secretary of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston from 1925 to 1952. He was the editor of the \"American Journal of Archaeology\".\n\nAshton Sanborn was born on March 13, 1882 in Rochester, New Hampshire. He was son of George Hobbs Sanborn and Lillian Knight Hodgdon. His father died when he was six years old, in 1888.\n\nSanborn was educated at the Somerville Latin High School in Somerville, Massachusetts. He graduated from Harvard University in 1905, where he received a master of arts degree in 1908. He was a Fellow at the American School of Classical Studies at Athens from 1909 to 1912. He also attended the University of Munich from 1913 to 1914.\n\nSanborn was archaeologist Lacey Davis Caskey's assistant from 1913 to 1915. He was also James Loeb's assistant in Munich. He also taught Latin, Greek and Latin at the Foster School in Litchfield, Connecticut. From 1918 to 1919, he served as the executive secretary of the American Red Cross Commission to Palestine (now known as Israel), where he was based in Jerusalem. In 1920, Sanborn was on an expedition to the tomb of Merenptah with Eckley Brinton Coxe, Jr. and Clarence Stanley Fisher, where they found Moses's throne. He served as Dr George Andrew Reisner's editorial secretary from 1920 to 1925.\n\nSanborn served as the librarian of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston from 1923 to 1925, and as its secretary from 1925 to 1952. He served as the editor of the \"Boston Museum Bulletin\" from 1925 to 1952, and later editor of the \"American Journal of Archaeology\".\n\nSanborn married Agnes Goldman, the granddaughter of rabbi Samuel Adler and Goldman Sachs's founder Marcus Goldman; they met in Palestine and married on December 25, 1924. They had a daughter, Sarah Sanborn. They resided at 147 Brattle Street in Cambridge, Massachusetts from 1940 to 1970.\n\nSanborn died on June 22, 1970 in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n"}
{"id": "6973268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6973268", "title": "Australian Encyclopaedia", "text": "Australian Encyclopaedia\n\nThe Australian Encyclopaedia is an encyclopaedia focused on Australia. In addition to biographies of notable Australians the coverage includes the geology, flora, fauna as well as the history of the continent. It was first published by Angus and Robertson in two volumes, one each in 1925 and 1926. The most recent edition, the sixth, is of eight volumes published in 1996.\n\nThe encyclopaedia was initiated in 1912 as a historical and biographical record under the directorship of Charles H. Bertie, municipal librarian of Sydney. The outbreak of World War I in 1914 temporarily halted its progress.\n\nIn 1917, work resumed and it was decided that the book should also include scientific subjects. Herbert J. Carter, later to be president of the Linnean Society of New South Wales (1925–26) recruited other Australian scientists to work on the encyclopedia. Their contributions were, in many instances, the first summaries of scientific knowledge published in a general reference work in Australia. In 1920 Captain Arthur Jose was released from the Australian Navy and became the general editor. He found that, since significant time had elapsed since the project started and newer sources of information were available, it had become necessary to re-write much of the historical and biographical information.\n\nRichard Appleton became editor-in-chief in 1977 and oversaw the fourth and fifth editions.\n\n\nThe 3rd and 4th editions were published by the Grolier Society of Australia.\nThe 5th and 6th editions were published by Australian Geographic.\n\n\nFor a critical review of the first edition:\n"}
{"id": "52128007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52128007", "title": "Bangladesh Film Archive", "text": "Bangladesh Film Archive\n\nBangladesh Film Archive independent institution that is the national film archive of Bangladesh and preserves films, commercials and other visual medias produced in Bangladesh and is located in Shahbagh, Dhaka, Bangladesh.\n\nThe Archive was established in 1978 by the government of Bangladesh. In 1984 it was made an independent institution. In 2016 the archive donated Pramathesh Barua's `Devdas' original print to India.\n"}
{"id": "56714651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56714651", "title": "Breaking the Code (film)", "text": "Breaking the Code (film)\n\nBreaking the Code is a 1996 BBC television movie directed by Herbert Wise, based on the 1986 play by Hugh Whitemore about British mathematician Alan Turing, the play thematically links Turing's cryptographic activities with his attempts to grapple with his homosexuality.\n\nThe story focuses on the life of the English mathematician Alan Turing, who helped decode the Enigma code, used by the Germans to send secret orders to their U-boats in World War II. He also was one of the key contributors to the development of the digital computer. Turing was also a homosexual in Britain at a time when it was illegal.\n\n\nDerek Jacobi starred in an eight-month run of the play at the Theatre Royal, Haymarket in London's West End beginning on 21 October 1986, and he stayed with the play when it ran on Broadway in New York City from 15 November 1987, to 10 April 1988.\n\nIt was broadcast by the BBC on 2 February 1996, and in the United States by PBS on \"Masterpiece Theatre\". A producer's cut was released on DVD in 2012.\n\nIt won a Broadcasting Press Guild Award and was nominated for two BAFTA TV awards, for best single drama and best actor, and for a GLAAD Media Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "47502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47502", "title": "Calibration", "text": "Calibration\n\nCalibration in measurement technology and metrology is the comparison of measurement values delivered by a device under test with those of a calibration standard of known accuracy. Such a standard could be another measurement device of known accuracy, a device generating the quantity to be measured such as a voltage, sound tone, or a physical artefact, such as a metre ruler.\n\nThe outcome of the comparison can result in no significant error being noted on the device under test, a significant error being noted but no adjustment made, or an adjustment made to correct the error to an acceptable level. Strictly speaking, the term calibration means just the act of comparison, and does not include any subsequent adjustment.\n\nThe calibration standard is normally traceable to a national standard held by a National Metrological Institute.\n\nThe formal definition of calibration by the International Bureau of Weights and Measures (BIPM) is the following: \"Operation that, under specified conditions, in a first step, establishes a relation between the quantity values with measurement uncertainties provided by measurement standards and corresponding indications with associated measurement uncertainties (of the calibrated instrument or secondary standard) and, in a second step, uses this information to establish a relation for obtaining a measurement result from an indication.\"\nThis definition states that the calibration process is purely a comparison, but introduces the concept of measurement uncertainty in relating the accuracies of the device under test and the standard.\n\nThe increasing need for known accuracy and uncertainty and the need to have consistent and comparable standards internationally has led to the establishment of national laboratories. In many countries a National Metrology Institute (NMI) will exist which will maintain primary standards of measurement (the main SI units plus a number of derived units) which will be used to provide traceability to customer's instruments by calibration.\n\nThe NMI supports the metrological infrastructure in that country (and often others) by establishing an unbroken chain, from the top level of standards to an instrument used for measurement. Examples of National Metrology Institutes are NPL in the UK, NIST in the United States, PTB in Germany and many others. Since the Mutual Recognition Agreement was signed it is now straightforward to take traceability from any participating NMI and it is no longer necessary for a company to obtain traceability for measurements from the NMI of the country in which it is situated, such as the National Physical Laboratory in the UK.\n\nTo improve the quality of the calibration and have the results accepted by outside organizations it is desirable for the calibration and subsequent measurements to be \"traceable\" to the internationally defined measurement units. Establishing traceability is accomplished by a formal comparison to a standard which is directly or indirectly related to national standards (such as NIST in the USA), international standards, or certified reference materials. This may be done by national standards laboratories operated by the government or by private firms offering metrology services.\n\nQuality management systems call for an effective metrology system which includes formal, periodic, and documented calibration of all measuring instruments. ISO 9000 and ISO 17025 standards require that these traceable actions are to a high level and set out how they can be quantified.\n\nTo communicate the quality of a calibration the calibration value is often accompanied by a traceable uncertainty statement to a stated confidence level. This is evaluated through careful uncertainty analysis.\nSome times a DFS (Departure From Spec) is required to operate machinery in a degraded state. Whenever this does happen, it must be in writing and authorized by a manager with the technical assistance of a calibration technician.\n\nMeasuring devices and instruments are categorized according to the physical quantities they are designed to measure. These vary internationally, e.g., NIST 150-2G in the U.S. and NABL-141 in India. Together, these standards cover instruments that measure various physical quantities such as electromagnetic radiation (RF probes), sound (sound level meter or noise dosimeter), time and frequency (intervalometer), ionizing radiation (Geiger counter), light (light meter), mechanical quantities (limit switch, pressure gauge, pressure switch), and, thermodynamic or thermal properties (thermometer, temperature controller). The standard instrument for each test device varies accordingly, e.g., a dead weight tester for pressure gauge calibration and a dry block temperature tester for temperature gauge calibration.\n\nCalibration may be required for the following reasons:\n\nIn general use, calibration is often regarded as including the process of adjusting the output or indication on a measurement instrument to agree with value of the applied standard, within a specified accuracy. For example, a thermometer could be calibrated so the error of indication or the correction is determined, and adjusted (e.g. via calibration constants) so that it shows the true temperature in Celsius at specific points on the scale. This is the perception of the instrument's end-user. However, very few instruments can be adjusted to exactly match the standards they are compared to. For the vast majority of calibrations, the calibration process is actually the comparison of an unknown to a known and recording the results.\n\nThe calibration process begins with the design of the measuring instrument that needs to be calibrated. The design has to be able to \"hold a calibration\" through its calibration interval. In other words, the design has to be capable of measurements that are \"within engineering tolerance\" when used within the stated environmental conditions over some reasonable period of time. Having a design with these characteristics increases the likelihood of the actual measuring instruments performing as expected.\nBasically,the purpose of calibration is for maintaining the quality of measurement as well as to ensure the proper working of particular instrument.\n\nThe exact mechanism for assigning tolerance values varies by country and as per the industry type. The measuring of equipment is manufacturer generally assigns .the measurement tolerance, suggests a calibration interval (CI) and specifies the environmental range of use and storage. The using organization generally assigns the actual calibration interval, which is dependent on this specific measuring equipment's likely usage level. The assignment of calibration intervals can be a formal process based on the results of previous calibrations. The standards themselves are not clear on recommended CI values:\n\nThe next step is defining the calibration process. The selection of a standard or standards is the most visible part of the calibration process. Ideally, the standard has less than 1/4 of the measurement uncertainty of the device being calibrated. When this goal is met, the accumulated measurement uncertainty of all of the standards involved is considered to be insignificant when the final measurement is also made with the 4:1 ratio. This ratio was probably first formalized in Handbook 52 that accompanied MIL-STD-45662A, an early US Department of Defense metrology program specification. It was 10:1 from its inception in the 1950s until the 1970s, when advancing technology made 10:1 impossible for most electronic measurements.\n\nMaintaining a 4:1 accuracy ratio with modern equipment is difficult. The test equipment being calibrated can be just as accurate as the working standard. If the accuracy ratio is less than 4:1, then the calibration tolerance can be reduced to compensate. When 1:1 is reached, only an exact match between the standard and the device being calibrated is a completely correct calibration. Another common method for dealing with this capability mismatch is to reduce the accuracy of the device being calibrated.\n\nFor example, a gauge with 3% manufacturer-stated accuracy can be changed to 4% so that a 1% accuracy standard can be used at 4:1. If the gauge is used in an application requiring 16% accuracy, having the gauge accuracy reduced to 4% will not affect the accuracy of the final measurements. This is called a limited calibration. But if the final measurement requires 10% accuracy, then the 3% gauge never can be better than 3.3:1. Then perhaps adjusting the calibration tolerance for the gauge would be a better solution. If the calibration is performed at 100 units, the 1% standard would actually be anywhere between 99 and 101 units. The acceptable values of calibrations where the test equipment is at the 4:1 ratio would be 96 to 104 units, inclusive. Changing the acceptable range to 97 to 103 units would remove the potential contribution of all of the standards and preserve a 3.3:1 ratio. Continuing, a further change to the acceptable range to 98 to 102 restores more than a 4:1 final ratio.\n\nThis is a simplified example. The mathematics of the example can be challenged. It is important that whatever thinking guided this process in an actual calibration be recorded and accessible. Informality contributes to tolerance stacks and other difficult to diagnose post calibration problems.\n\nAlso in the example above, ideally the calibration value of 100 units would be the best point in the gauge's range to perform a single-point calibration. It may be the manufacturer's recommendation or it may be the way similar devices are already being calibrated. Multiple point calibrations are also used. Depending on the device, a zero unit state, the absence of the phenomenon being measured, may also be a calibration point. Or zero may be resettable by the user-there are several variations possible. Again, the points to use during calibration should be recorded.\n\nThere may be specific connection techniques between the standard and the device being calibrated that may influence the calibration. For example, in electronic calibrations involving analog phenomena, the impedance of the cable connections can directly influence the result.\n\nCalibration methods for modern devices can be manual or automatic.\nAs an example, a manual process may be used for calibration of a pressure gauge. The procedure requires multiple steps, to connect the gauge under test to a reference master gauge and an adjustable pressure source, to apply fluid pressure to both reference and test gauges at definite points over the span of the gauge, and to compare the readings of the two. The gauge under test may be adjusted to ensure its zero point and response to pressure comply as closely as possible to the intended accuracy. Each step of the process requires manual record keeping. \nAn automatic pressure calibrator is a device that combines an electronic control unit, a pressure intensifier used to compress a gas such as Nitrogen, a pressure transducer used to detect desired levels in a hydraulic accumulator, and accessories such as liquid traps and gauge fittings. An automatic system may also include data collection facilities to automate the gathering of data for record keeping.\n\nAll of the information above is collected in a calibration procedure, which is a specific test method. These procedures capture all of the steps needed to perform a successful calibration. The manufacturer may provide one or the organization may prepare one that also captures all of the organization's other requirements. There are clearinghouses for calibration procedures such as the Government-Industry Data Exchange Program (GIDEP) in the United States.\n\nThis exact process is repeated for each of the standards used until transfer standards, certified reference materials and/or natural physical constants, the measurement standards with the least uncertainty in the laboratory, are reached. This establishes the traceability of the calibration.\n\nSee Metrology for other factors that are considered during calibration process development.\n\nAfter all of this, individual instruments of the specific type discussed above can finally be calibrated. The process generally begins with a basic damage check. Some organizations such as nuclear power plants collect \"as-found\" calibration data before any routine maintenance is performed. After routine maintenance and deficiencies detected during calibration are addressed, an \"as-left\" calibration is performed.\n\nMore commonly, a calibration technician is entrusted with the entire process and signs the calibration certificate, which documents the completion of a successful calibration.\nThe basic process outlined above is a difficult and expensive challenge. The cost for ordinary equipment support is generally about 10% of the original purchase price on a yearly basis, as a commonly accepted rule-of-thumb. Exotic devices such as scanning electron microscopes, gas chromatograph systems and laser interferometer devices can be even more costly to maintain.\n\nThe 'single measurement' device used in the basic calibration process description above does exist. But, depending on the organization, the majority of the devices that need calibration can have several ranges and many functionalities in a single instrument. A good example is a common modern oscilloscope. There easily could be 200,000 combinations of settings to completely calibrate and limitations on how much of an all inclusive calibration can be automated.\n\nTo prevent unauthorised access to an instrument tamper-proof seals are usually applied after calibration. The picture of the oscilloscope rack shows these, and prove that the instrument has not been removed since it was last calibrated as they will possible unauthorised to the adjusting elements of the instrument. There also are labels showing the date of the last calibration and when the calibration interval dictates when the next one is needed. Some organizations also assign unique identification to each instrument to standardize the record keeping and keep track of accessories that are integral to a specific calibration condition.\n\nWhen the instruments being calibrated are integrated with computers, the integrated computer programs and any calibration corrections are also under control.\n\nThe words \"calibrate\" and \"calibration\" entered the English language as recently as the American Civil War, in descriptions of artillery, thought to be derived from a measurement of the calibre of a gun.\n\nSome of the earliest known systems of measurement and calibration seem to have been created between the ancient civilizations of Egypt, Mesopotamia and the Indus Valley, with excavations revealing the use of angular gradations for construction. The term \"calibration\" was likely first associated with the precise division of linear distance and angles using a dividing engine and the measurement of gravitational mass using a weighing scale. These two forms of measurement alone and their direct derivatives supported nearly all commerce and technology development from the earliest civilizations until about AD 1800.\n\nEarly measurement devices were \"direct\", i.e. they had the same units as the quantity being measured. Examples include length using a yardstick and mass using a weighing scale. At the beginning of the twelfth century, during the reign of Henry I (1100-1135), it was decreed that a yard be \"the distance from the tip of the King's nose to the end of his outstretched thumb.\" However, it wasn't until the reign of Richard I (1197) that we find documented evidence.\n\nOther standardization attempts followed, such as the Magna Carta (1225) for liquid measures, until the Mètre des Archives from France and the establishment of the Metric system.\n\nOne of the earliest pressure measurement devices was the Mercury barometer, credited to Torricelli (1643), which read atmospheric pressure using Mercury. Soon after, water-filled manometers were designed. All these would have linear calibrations using gravimetric principles, where the difference in levels was proportional to pressure. The normal units of measure would be the convenient inches of mercury or water.\n\nIn the direct reading hydrostatic manometer design on the right, applied pressure P pushes the liquid down the right side of the manometer U-tube, while a length scale next to the tube measures the difference of levels. The resulting height difference \"H\" is a direct measurement of the pressure or vacuum with respect to atmospheric pressure. In the absence of differential pressure both levels would be equal, and this would be used as the zero point. \nThe Industrial Revolution saw the adoption of \"indirect\" pressure measuring devices, which were more practical than the manometer.\nAn example is in high pressure (up to 50 psi) steam engines, where mercury was used to reduce the scale length to about 60 inches, but such a manometer was expensive and prone to damage. This stimulated the development of indirect reading instruments, of which the Bourdon tube invented by Eugène Bourdon is a notable example. \nIn the front and back views of a Bourdon gauge on the right, applied pressure at the bottom fitting reduces the curl on the flattened pipe proportionally to pressure. This moves the free end of the tube which is linked to the pointer. The instrument would be calibrated against a manometer, which would be the calibration standard. For measurement of indirect quantities of pressure per unit area, the calibration uncertainty would be dependent on the density of the manometer fluid, and the means of measuring the height difference. From this other units such as pounds per square inch could be inferred and marked on the scale.\n\nCrouch, Stanley & Skoog, Douglas A. (2007). Principles of Instrumental Analysis. Pacific Grove: Brooks Cole. .\n\nIS:ISO:ISI:17025:2005\n\n"}
{"id": "35208325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35208325", "title": "Charles Chusseau-Flaviens", "text": "Charles Chusseau-Flaviens\n\nCharles Chusseau-Flaviens was a French independent photojournalist of the ca. 1890s to 1910s. His distribution of other photographer's work for publication created one of the first photo press agencies, located at 46 Rue Bayen, Paris. Chusseau-Flaviens' by-line appeared on numerous photographs from every European country as well as from Africa, the Middle East, the Orient and the United States. Subject matter included intimate portraits of European royalty, political figures and celebrities in addition to everyday life. According to researchers, no biographical information about Chusseau-Flaviens is known.\n\nA substantial portion of his photographic collection, represented by nearly 11,000 glass negatives, was donated by Kodak Pathé to the George Eastman House (GEH) International Museum of Photography and Film in 1974. GEH noted that Chusseau-Flaviens also acquired copies of photographs from other photographers, annotating their names on his glass negatives. They speculated that this accounts for the inclusion of photographs in his collection from various far-flung nations, such as Japan and New Zealand. According to the French Ministry of Culture, his release of the other photographer's work under the Chusseau-Flaviens name created the first photographic press agency of the 20th century.\n\nCountries represented by photographs in the GEH collection include: Algeria, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Ceylon, China, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, England, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany, Gibraltar, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Majorca, Morocco, Netherlands, Norway, Palestine, Philippines, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia, Turkey, United States and Yugoslavia. Due to the relative lack of photographs representing France, it has been speculated that a large collection of Chusseau-Flaviens' work remains undiscovered.\n\nJournals in which Chusseau-Flaviens images appeared include \"Ilustraçāo Portugueza\", \"L'Illustration\", \"The Illustrated London News\",\"Le Monde\" and \"The Graphic\".\n\nIn addition to the George Eastman House (with \"ca.\" 11 000 glass negatives), photos attributed to Chusseau-Flaviens are preserved in the Musee Nicéphore-Niépce (\"ca.\" 4 500 prints), Musée d'Orsay (22 authochromes), and the Bibliothèque Marguerite Durand (150 photographs).\n\n"}
{"id": "5000855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5000855", "title": "Charles Trick Currelly", "text": "Charles Trick Currelly\n\nCharles Trick Currelly (January 11, 1876 – April 10, 1957) was a Canadian clergyman and archeologist, and the first director of the Royal Ontario Museum from 1914 to 1946.\n\nCharles Currelly was born on January 11, 1876 in Exeter, Ontario, the son of John Currelly and Mary Treble. An only child, he attended the local school in Exeter and was known to visit the shops of the blacksmith, tanner, and wheelwright in order to study how different materials were used. He was tutored by Reverend Jasper Wilson in Latin, who also taught him how to shoot. Currelly's high school years at the Harbord Collegiate Institute brought his family to Toronto. During this time, Currelly participated in art lessons and nature studies. After graduating in 1894, he attended the University of Toronto's Victoria College like his father and grandfather. At Victoria College, he took biology and earth science courses in addition to Asian history and the Romance Languages. He received his B.A. in 1898. After leaving university, Currelly spent the next two years serving as a lay missionary for the Methodist Church at the Umatilla Indian Reservation in Northern Manitoba. During this time, he collected information on First Nations life in early Canada that was exhibited upon his return to Victoria College for postgraduate studies. Currelly was awarded his master's degree from Victoria College in 1902.\n\nAfter completing his master's degree, Currelly and his friend Ned Burwash, the son of Nathaniel Burwash, chancellor of Victoria University went to England planning to study how Social gospel had filtered down to the working classes. However, this plan was disrupted when Currelly stopped at the British Museum to have some coins identified. After a little shawabti figure fell out of his pocket, Currelly was sent to the office of famous Egyptologist, Flinders Petrie who worked for the Egypt Exploration Fund. Petrie interviewed Currelly about his drawing skills and offered him an assistantship. Soon, Curelly was living in Petrie's home learning how to pack artifacts. Eventually, Currelly was responsible for a dig in Egypt where he discovered the cenotaph and tomb of Ahmose I. Curelly continued to work in Ehnasya, Lower Egypt, and in Sinai under Petrie until 1905, when Petrie left the Egypt Exploration Fund. In 1907, Currelly also left the Fund.\n\nWhile in Egypt, Currelly discovered his talent and love of collecting and began to collect for people in Britain and Canada including Edmund Walker, the father of one of his school friends. After meeting with Walker in 1905, Currelly was appointed official collector for the University of Toronto and later was given the title of curator of Oriental archaeology. Currelly delved into his work, becoming more and more convinced that a good museum must be developed in Toronto \n\nIn 1906, when Edmund Walker was chairing a commission on the future of the University of Toronto, it was recommended that a museum should be constructed to serve students and the public. Soon planning for the founding of a provincial museum started under Walker's watchful eye. In 1907, Currelly was made curator of the Royal Ontario Museum of Archaeology. During 1911, Currelly started to work in the basement of the first museum building which was still under construction. Finally, in 1914, Currelly became director of the Archaeology Museum. Throughout his life, Currelly continuously worked to advance the Museum's interests, and never stopped looking for acquisitions to compliment the Museum's collections leading them to grow enormously through the late 1910s and 1920s. When Currelly finally retired in 1946, the Museum renamed the old Armour Court the Currelly Gallery.\n\nBefore Currelly died, he wrote an autobiography entitled, \"I Brought the Ages Home.\" This book recounts his adventures, travels, and museum work. During his retirement Currelly lived near Port Hope, Ontario. While in Florida for a winter vacation, Curelly fell ill and was taken the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. The 81-year-old Currelly died on April 10, 1957, at the hospital where he had been receiving treatment since December. On October 7, 1957 an exhibition was held at the Museum to commemorate him. The exhibition was marked by the unveiling of a bronze bust of Currelly which was cast in 1957 by the Vandevoorde Art Foundry of Montreal. The original sculpture was created in 1919 by Canadian artist Ulric Stonewall Jackson Dunbar. This bust and a bronze medallion of Currelly can still be viewed today in the Museum's Sackler Reading Room.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46902218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46902218", "title": "Citation network", "text": "Citation network\n\nCitation Network is a social network which contains paper sources and linked by co-citation relationships. Egghe & Rousseau once (1990, p. 228) explain \"when a document \"d\" cites a document \"d\", we can show this by an arrow going from the node representing \"d\" to the document representing \"d\". In this way the documents from a collection D form a directed graph, which is called a 'citation graph' or 'citation network' \".\n\nCitation is a reference to a published or unpublished source (not always the original source). More precisely, a citation is an abbreviated alphanumeric expression embedded in the body of an intellectual work that denotes an entry in the bibliographic references section of the work for the purpose of acknowledging the relevance of the works of others to the topic of discussion at the spot where the citation appears. Generally the combination of both the in-body citation and the bibliographic entry constitutes what is commonly thought of as a citation (whereas bibliographic entries by themselves are not). References to single, machine-readable assertions in electronic scientific articles are known as nanopublications, a form of microattribution.\nCitation networks, the principal focus of this study, are one kind of social networks that have been studied quantitatively almost from the moment citation databases first became available. In 1965, Derek J. de Solla Price described the inherent linking characteristic of the SCI in his seminal paper titled \"Networks of Scientific Papers\". The links between citing and cited papers became dynamic when the SCI began to be published online. In 1973, Henry Small published his work on co-citation analysis which became a self-organizing classification system that led to document clustering experiments and eventually what is called \"Research Reviews\".\n\n"}
{"id": "29702766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29702766", "title": "Comparison of OpenSolaris distributions", "text": "Comparison of OpenSolaris distributions\n\nTechnical variations of Solaris distributions include support for different hardware devices and systems or software package configurations. Organizational differences may be motivated by historical reasons. Other criteria include security, including how quickly security upgrades are available; ease of package management; and number of packages available.\n\nThese tables compare each noteworthy distribution's latest stable release on wide-ranging objective criteria. It does not cover each operating system's subjective merits, branches marked as unstable or beta, nor compare Solaris distributions with other operating systems.\n\nBasic general information about the distributions: creator or producer, release date and latest version, and so forth.\n\nInformation on features in the distributions. Package numbers are only approximate.\n\n"}
{"id": "18806794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18806794", "title": "Comparison of tablet computers", "text": "Comparison of tablet computers\n\nThis is a list of tablet computers, grouped by intended audience and form factor.\n\nMultimedia tablets are compared in the following tables.\n\nFollowing two tables compare larger than screen multimedia tablets released in \"2012\" and later.\n\nThis table compares multimedia tablets running \"Android\" operating systems.\n\nThis table compares multimedia tablets running \"iOS\" operating systems.\n\nThis table compares multimedia tablets running \"Windows\" operating systems.\n\nThis table compares screen (multi-)media tablets released in \"2012\" and later.\n\nThis table compares multimedia tablets running \"Android\" operating systems.\n\nThis table compares multimedia tablets running \"iOS\" operating systems.\n\nThis table compares multimedia tablets running \"Windows\" operating systems.\n\nThis table compares and larger screen (multi-)media tablets released in \"2011\".\n\nThis table compares screen (multi-)media tablets released in \"2011\".\n\nThis table compares and larger screen (multi-)media tablets released in \"2010\".\n\nThis table compares screen (multi-)media tablets released in \"2010\".\n\nThis table compares (multi-)media tablets released in \"2009\" and earlier.\n\nThis table compares tablet computers designed to be used by professionals in various harsh environmental conditions. Most of them are rugged. Some are meant to be mounted in vehicles or used as terminals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9738", "title": "Email", "text": "Email\n\nElectronic mail (email or e-mail) is a method of exchanging messages (\"mail\") between people using electronic devices. Invented by Ray Tomlinson, email first entered limited use in the 1960s and by the mid-1970s had taken the form now recognized as email. Email operates across computer networks, which today is primarily the Internet. Some early email systems required the author and the recipient to both be online at the same time, in common with instant messaging. Today's email systems are based on a store-and-forward model. Email servers accept, forward, deliver, and store messages. Neither the users nor their computers are required to be online simultaneously; they need to connect only briefly, typically to a mail server or a webmail interface, for as long as it takes to send or receive messages.\n\nOriginally an ASCII text-only communications medium, Internet email was extended by Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) to carry text in other character sets and multimedia content attachments. International email, with internationalized email addresses using UTF-8, has been standardized, but it has not been widely adopted.\n\nThe history of modern Internet email services reaches back to the early ARPANET, with standards for encoding email messages published as early as 1973 (RFC 561). An email message sent in the early 1970s looks very similar to a basic email sent today. Email had an important role in creating the Internet, and the conversion from ARPANET to the Internet in the early 1980s produced the core of the current services.\n\nHistorically, the term \"electronic mail\" was used generically for any electronic document transmission. For example, several writers in the early 1970s used the term to describe fax document transmission. As a result, it is difficult to find the first citation for the use of the term with the more specific meaning it has today.\n\nElectronic mail has been most commonly called \"email\" or \"e-mail\" since around 1993, but variations of the spelling have been used:\n\n\nAn Internet e-mail consists of an envelope and content; the content in turn consists of a header and a body.\n\nComputer-based mail and messaging became possible with the advent of time-sharing computers in the early 1960s, and informal methods of using shared files to pass messages were soon expanded into the first mail systems. Most developers of early mainframes and minicomputers developed similar, but generally incompatible, mail applications. Over time, a complex web of gateways and routing systems linked many of them. Many US universities were part of the ARPANET (created in the late 1960s), which aimed at software portability between its systems. That portability helped make the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) increasingly influential.\n\nFor a time in the late 1980s and early 1990s, it seemed likely that either a proprietary commercial system or the X.400 email system, part of the Government Open Systems Interconnection Profile (GOSIP), would predominate. However, once the final restrictions on carrying commercial traffic over the Internet ended in 1995, a combination of factors made the current Internet suite of SMTP, POP3 and IMAP email protocols the standard.\n\nThe diagram to the right shows a typical sequence of events that takes place when sender Alice transmits a message using a mail user agent (MUA) addressed to the email address of the recipient.\n\nIn addition to this example, alternatives and complications exist in the email system:\n\nMany MTAs used to accept messages for any recipient on the Internet and do their best to deliver them. Such MTAs are called \"open mail relays\". This was very important in the early days of the Internet when network connections were unreliable. However, this mechanism proved to be exploitable by originators of unsolicited bulk email and as a consequence open mail relays have become rare, and many MTAs do not accept messages from open mail relays.\n\nThe basic Internet email message format is now defined by RFC 5322, with encoding of non-ASCII data and multimedia content attachments being defined in RFC 2045 through RFC 2049, collectively called \"Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions\" or \"MIME\". RFC 5322 replaced the earlier RFC 2822 in 2008, and in turn RFC 2822 in 2001 replaced RFC 822 – which had been the standard for Internet email for nearly 20 years. Published in 1982, RFC 822 was based on the earlier RFC 733 for the ARPANET.\n\nInternet email messages consist of two major sections, the message header and the message body, collectively known as content. \nThe header is structured into fields such as From, To, CC, Subject, Date, and other information about the email. In the process of transporting email messages between systems, SMTP communicates delivery parameters and information using message header fields. The body contains the message, as unstructured text, sometimes containing a signature block at the end. The header is separated from the body by a blank line.\n\nEach message has exactly one header (the \"header section\" of the message, according to the specification), which is structured into fields (\"header fields\"). Each field has a name (\"field name\" or \"header field name\") and a value (\"field body\" or \"header field body\"). RFC 5322 specifies the precise syntax.\n\nInformally, each line of text in the header that begins with a non-whitespace printable character begins a separate field. The field name starts in the first character of the line and ends before the separator character \":\". The separator is then followed by the field value (the \"body\" of the field). The value is continued onto subsequent lines if those lines have a space or tab as their first character. Field names and, without SMTPUTF8, field bodies are restricted to 7-bit ASCII characters. Some non-ASCII values may be represented using MIME encoded words.\n\nEmail header fields can be multi-line, with each line recommended to be no more than 78 characters, although the technical limit is 998 characters. Header fields defined by RFC 5322 can only contain US-ASCII characters; for encoding characters in other sets, a syntax specified in RFC 2047 can be used. Recently the IETF EAI working group has defined some standards track extensions, replacing previous experimental extensions, to allow UTF-8 encoded Unicode characters to be used within the header. In particular, this allows email addresses to use non-ASCII characters. Such addresses are supported by Google and Microsoft products, and promoted by some governments.\n\nThe message header must include at least the following fields:\n\nRFC 3864 describes registration procedures for message header fields at the IANA; it provides for permanent and provisional field names, including also fields defined for MIME, netnews, and HTTP, and referencing relevant RFCs. Common header fields for email include:\n\n\nNote that the \"To:\" field is not necessarily related to the addresses to which the message is delivered. The actual delivery list is supplied separately to the transport protocol, SMTP, which may or may not originally have been extracted from the header content. The \"To:\" field is similar to the addressing at the top of a conventional letter which is delivered according to the address on the outer envelope. In the same way, the \"From:\" field does not have to be the real sender of the email message. Some mail servers apply email authentication systems to messages being relayed. Data pertaining to server's activity is also part of the header, as defined below.\n\nSMTP defines the \"trace information\" of a message, which is also saved in the header using the following two fields:\n\nOther fields that are added on top of the header by the receiving server may be called \"trace fields\", in a broader sense.\n\nInternet email was originally designed for 7-bit ASCII. Most email software is 8-bit clean but must assume it will communicate with 7-bit servers and mail readers. The MIME standard introduced character set specifiers and two content transfer encodings to enable transmission of non-ASCII data: quoted printable for mostly 7-bit content with a few characters outside that range and base64 for arbitrary binary data. The 8BITMIME and BINARY extensions were introduced to allow transmission of mail without the need for these encodings, but many mail transport agents still do not support them fully. In some countries, several encoding schemes coexist; as the result, by default, the message in a non-Latin alphabet language appears in non-readable form (the only exception is coincidence, when the sender and receiver use the same encoding scheme). Therefore, for international character sets, Unicode is growing in popularity.\n\nMost modern graphic email clients allow the use of either plain text or HTML for the message body at the option of the user. HTML email messages often include an automatically generated plain text copy as well, for compatibility reasons. Advantages of HTML include the ability to include in-line links and images, set apart previous messages in block quotes, wrap naturally on any display, use emphasis such as underlines and italics, and change font styles. Disadvantages include the increased size of the email, privacy concerns about web bugs, abuse of HTML email as a vector for phishing attacks and the spread of malicious software.\n\nSome web-based mailing lists recommend that all posts be made in plain-text, with 72 or 80 characters per line for all the above reasons, but also because they have a significant number of readers using text-based email clients such as Mutt. Some Microsoft email clients allow rich formatting using their proprietary Rich Text Format (RTF), but this should be avoided unless the recipient is guaranteed to have a compatible email client.\n\nMessages are exchanged between hosts using the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol with software programs called mail transfer agents (MTAs); and delivered to a mail store by programs called mail delivery agents (MDAs, also sometimes called local delivery agents, LDAs). Accepting a message obliges an MTA to deliver it, and when a message cannot be delivered, that MTA must send a bounce message back to the sender, indicating the problem.\n\nUsers can retrieve their messages from servers using standard protocols such as POP or IMAP, or, as is more likely in a large corporate environment, with a proprietary protocol specific to Novell Groupwise, Lotus Notes or Microsoft Exchange Servers. Programs used by users for retrieving, reading, and managing email are called mail user agents (MUAs).\n\nMail can be stored on the client, on the server side, or in both places. Standard formats for mailboxes include Maildir and mbox. Several prominent email clients use their own proprietary format and require conversion software to transfer email between them. Server-side storage is often in a proprietary format but since access is through a standard protocol such as IMAP, moving email from one server to another can be done with any MUA supporting the protocol.\n\nMany current email users do not run MTA, MDA or MUA programs themselves, but use a web-based email platform, such as Gmail or Yahoo! Mail, that performs the same tasks. Such webmail interfaces allow users to access their mail with any standard web browser, from any computer, rather than relying on an email client.\n\nUpon reception of email messages, email client applications save messages in operating system files in the file system. Some clients save individual messages as separate files, while others use various database formats, often proprietary, for collective storage. A historical standard of storage is the \"mbox\" format. The specific format used is often indicated by special filename extensions:\n\nSome applications (like Apple Mail) leave attachments encoded in messages for searching while also saving separate copies of the attachments. Others separate attachments from messages and save them in a specific directory.\n\nThe URI scheme, as registered with the IANA, defines the mailto: scheme for SMTP email addresses. Though its use is not strictly defined, URLs of this form are intended to be used to open the new message window of the user's mail client when the URL is activated, with the address as defined by the URL in the \"To:\" field.\n\nMany email providers have a web-based email client (e.g. AOL Mail, Gmail, Outlook.com, Hotmail and Yahoo! Mail). This allows users to log into the email account by using any compatible web browser to send and receive their email. Mail is typically not downloaded to the client, so can't be read without a current Internet connection.\n\nThe Post Office Protocol 3 (POP3) is a mail access protocol used by a client application to read messages from the mail server. Received messages are often deleted from the server. POP supports simple download-and-delete requirements for access to remote mailboxes (termed maildrop in the POP RFC's).\n\nThe Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) provides features to manage a mailbox from multiple devices. Small portable devices like smartphones are increasingly used to check email while travelling, and to make brief replies, larger devices with better keyboard access being used to reply at greater length. IMAP shows the headers of messages, the sender and the subject and the device needs to request to download specific messages. Usually mail is left in folders in the mail server.\n\nMessaging Application Programming Interface (MAPI) is used by Microsoft Outlook to communicate to Microsoft Exchange Server - and to a range of other email server products such as Axigen Mail Server, Kerio Connect, Scalix, Zimbra, HP OpenMail, IBM Lotus Notes, Zarafa, and Bynari where vendors have added MAPI support to allow their products to be accessed directly via Outlook.\n\nEmail has been widely accepted by business, governments and non-governmental organizations in the developed world, and it is one of the key parts of an 'e-revolution' in workplace communication (with the other key plank being widespread adoption of highspeed Internet). A sponsored 2010 study on workplace communication found 83% of U.S. knowledge workers felt email was critical to their success and productivity at work.\n\nIt has some key benefits to business and other organizations, including:\n\nEmail marketing via \"opt-in\" is often successfully used to send special sales offerings and new product information. Depending on the recipient's culture, email sent without permission—such as an \"opt-in\"—is likely to be viewed as unwelcome \"email spam\".\n\nMany users access their personal email from friends and family members using a personal computer in their house or apartment.\n\nEmail has become used on smartphones and on all types of computers. Mobile \"apps\" for email increase accessibility to the medium for users who are out of their home. While in the earliest years of email, users could only access email on desktop computers, in the 2010s, it is possible for users to check their email when they are away from home, whether they are across town or across the world. Alerts can also be sent to the smartphone or other device to notify them immediately of new messages. This has given email the ability to be used for more frequent communication between users and allowed them to check their email and write messages throughout the day. , there were approximately 1.4 billion email users worldwide and 50 billion non-spam emails that were sent daily.\n\nIndividuals often check email on smartphones for both personal and work-related messages. It was found that US adults check their email more than they browse the web or check their Facebook accounts, making email the most popular activity for users to do on their smartphones. 78% of the respondents in the study revealed that they check their email on their phone. It was also found that 30% of consumers use only their smartphone to check their email, and 91% were likely to check their email at least once per day on their smartphone. However, the percentage of consumers using email on smartphone ranges and differs dramatically across different countries. For example, in comparison to 75% of those consumers in the US who used it, only 17% in India did.\n\n, the number of Americans visiting email web sites had fallen 6 percent after peaking in November 2009. For persons 12 to 17, the number was down 18 percent. Young people preferred instant messaging, texting and social media. Technology writer Matt Richtel said in \"The New York Times\" that email was like the VCR, vinyl records and film cameras—no longer cool and something older people do.\n\nA 2015 survey of Android users showed that persons 13 to 24 used messaging apps 3.5 times as much as those over 45, and were far less likely to use email.\n\nEmail messages may have one or more attachments, which are additional files that are appended to the email. Typical attachments include Microsoft Word documents, pdf documents and scanned images of paper documents. In principle there is no technical restriction on the size or number of attachments, but in practice email clients, servers and Internet service providers implement various limitations on the size of files, or complete email - typically to 25MB or less. Furthermore, due to technical reasons, attachment sizes as seen by these transport systems can differ to what the user sees, which can be confusing to senders when trying to assess whether they can safely send a file by email. Where larger files need to be shared, file hosting services of various sorts are available; and generally suggested.\n\nThe ubiquity of email for knowledge workers and \"white collar\" employees has led to concerns that recipients face an \"information overload\" in dealing with increasing volumes of email. With the growth in mobile devices, by default employees may also receive work-related emails outside of their working day. This can lead to increased stress, decreased satisfaction with work, and some observers even argue it could have a significant negative economic effect, as efforts to read the many emails could reduce productivity.\n\nEmail \"spam\" is the term used to describe unsolicited bulk email. The low cost of sending such email meant that by 2003 up to 30% of total email traffic was already spam, and was threatening the usefulness of email as a practical tool. The US CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 and similar laws elsewhere had some impact, and a number of effective anti-spam techniques now largely mitigate the impact of spam by filtering or rejecting it for most users, but the volume sent is still very high—and increasingly consists not of advertisements for products, but malicious content or links. In September 2017, for example, the proportion of spam to legitimate email rose to 59.56%.\n\nA range of malicious email types exist. These range from various types of email scams, including \"social engineering\" scams such as advance-fee scam \"Nigerian letters\", to phishing, email bombardment and email worms.\n\nEmail spoofing occurs when the email message header is designed to make the message appear to come from a known or trusted source. Email spam and phishing methods typically use spoofing to mislead the recipient about the true message origin. Email spoofing may be done as a prank, or as part of a criminal effort to defraud an individual or organization. An example of a potentially fraudulent email spoofing is if an individual creates an email which appears to be an invoice from a major company, and then sends it to one or more recipients. In some cases, these fraudulent emails incorporate the logo of the purported organization and even the email address may appear legitimate.\n\nEmail bombing is the intentional sending of large volumes of messages to a target address. The overloading of the target email address can render it unusable and can even cause the mail server to crash.\n\nToday it can be important to distinguish between Internet and internal email systems. Internet email may travel and be stored on networks and computers without the sender's or the recipient's control. During the transit time it is possible that third parties read or even modify the content. Internal mail systems, in which the information never leaves the organizational network, may be more secure, although information technology personnel and others whose function may involve monitoring or managing may be accessing the email of other employees.\n\nEmail privacy, without some security precautions, can be compromised because:\n\nThere are cryptography applications that can serve as a remedy to one or more of the above. For example, Virtual Private Networks or the Tor anonymity network can be used to encrypt traffic from the user machine to a safer network while GPG, PGP, SMEmail, or S/MIME can be used for end-to-end message encryption, and SMTP STARTTLS or SMTP over Transport Layer Security/Secure Sockets Layer can be used to encrypt communications for a single mail hop between the SMTP client and the SMTP server.\n\nAdditionally, many mail user agents do not protect logins and passwords, making them easy to intercept by an attacker. Encrypted authentication schemes such as SASL prevent this. Finally, attached files share many of the same hazards as those found in peer-to-peer filesharing. Attached files may contain trojans or viruses.\n\nFlaming occurs when a person sends a message (or many messages) with angry or antagonistic content. The term is derived from the use of the word \"incendiary\" to describe particularly heated email discussions. The ease and impersonality of email communications mean that the social norms that encourage civility in person or via telephone do not exist and civility may be forgotten.\n\nAlso known as \"email fatigue\", email bankruptcy is when a user ignores a large number of email messages after falling behind in reading and answering them. The reason for falling behind is often due to information overload and a general sense there is so much information that it is not possible to read it all. As a solution, people occasionally send a \"boilerplate\" message explaining that their email inbox is full, and that they are in the process of clearing out all the messages. Harvard University law professor Lawrence Lessig is credited with coining this term, but he may only have popularized it.\n\nOriginally Internet email was completely ASCII text-based. MIME now allows body content text and some header content text in international character sets, but other headers and email addresses using UTF-8, while standardized have yet to be widely adopted.\nThe original SMTP mail service provides limited mechanisms for tracking a transmitted message, and none for verifying that it has been delivered or read. It requires that each mail server must either deliver it onward or return a failure notice (bounce message), but both software bugs and system failures can cause messages to be lost. To remedy this, the IETF introduced Delivery Status Notifications (delivery receipts) and Message Disposition Notifications (return receipts); however, these are not universally deployed in production. (A complete Message Tracking mechanism was also defined, but it never gained traction; see RFCs 3885 through 3888.)\n\nMany ISPs now deliberately disable non-delivery reports (NDRs) and delivery receipts due to the activities of spammers:\n\nIn the absence of standard methods, a range of system based around the use of web bugs have been developed. However, these are often seen as underhand or raising privacy concerns, and only work with email clients that support rendering of HTML. Many mail clients now default to not showing \"web content\". Webmail providers can also disrupt web bugs by pre-caching images.\n\n"}
{"id": "1112309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1112309", "title": "Enkidu", "text": "Enkidu\n\nEnkidu ( EN.KI.DU, \"Enki's creation\"), formerly misread as Eabani, is a central figure in the Ancient Mesopotamian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\". Enkidu was formed from clay and water by Aruru, the goddess of creation, to rid Gilgamesh of his arrogance.\n\nIn the story he is a wild man, raised by animals and ignorant of human society until he is bedded by Shamhat. Thereafter a series of interactions with humans and human ways bring him closer to civilization, culminating in a wrestling match with Gilgamesh, king of Uruk. Enkidu embodies the wild or natural world. Though equal to Gilgamesh in strength and bearing, he acts in some ways as an antithesis to the cultured, urban-bred warrior-king. Enkidu then becomes the king's constant companion and deeply beloved friend, accompanying him on adventures until he is stricken with illness and dies.\n\nThe deep, tragic loss of Enkidu profoundly inspires in Gilgamesh a quest to escape death by obtaining godly immortality.\n\nThe people of Uruk complain to the gods that their mighty king Gilgamesh is too harsh. The goddess Aruru forms Enkidu from water and clay as rival to Gilgamesh, as a countervailing force. Enkidu lived in the wild, roaming with the herds, and joining the game at the watering-hole. M.H. Henze notes in this an early Mesopotamian tradition of the wild man living apart and roaming the hinterland, who eats grass like the animals and like them, drinks from the watering places.\n\nA hunter sees him and realizes that it is Enkidu who is freeing the animals from his traps. He reports this to Gilgamesh, who sends the temple prostitute, Shamhat, to deal with him.\n\nEnkidu spends six days and seven nights copulating with Shamhat, after which, sensing her scent upon him, the animals flee from him, and he finds he cannot return to his old ways. He returns to Shamhat, who teaches him the ways of civilized people. He now protects the shepherd's flock against predators, turning against his old life. Jastrow and Clay are of the opinion that the story of Enkidu was originally a separate tale to illustrate \"man's career and destiny, how through intercourse with a woman he awakens to the sense of human dignity, ...\"\n\nShamhat tells him of the city of Uruk and of its king Gilgamesh. He travels to Uruk and engages Gilgamesh in a wrestling match as a test of strength. Gilgamesh wins and the two become fast friends.\n\nEnkidu assists Gilgamesh in defeating and killing Humbaba, the guardian monster of the Cedar Forest. Enkidu selects a particularly tall tree to provide lumber for a new door for Enlil's temple in Uruk. Later, he assists Gilgamesh in slaying Gugalanna the \"Bull of Heaven\", which the gods have sent to kill Gilgamesh as a reprisal for rejecting Ishtar's affections while enumerating the misfortunes that befell her former lovers. Ishtar demands that the pair pay for the bull's destruction. Shamash appeals to the other gods to let both of them live, but only Gilgamesh is spared. Enkidu succumbs to a wasting illness. He represents the hero who wins fame but dies early. Gilgamesh responds to the loss of Enkidu by seeking out Utnapishtim in a quest for eternal life.\n\nThere is another non-canonical tablet in which Enkidu journeys into the underworld, but many scholars consider the tablet to be a sequel or add-on to the original epic as the work was revised several times. The section about the Flood is also considered to be addition.\n\nSome modern individuals interpret the depiction of Gilgamesh and Enkidu's relationship as erotic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45265172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45265172", "title": "Erhard von Appenweiler", "text": "Erhard von Appenweiler\n\nErhard von Appenweiler (d. 1471 or 1472) was a 15th-century Basel chronicler and cleric.\nA native of \"Appenweiler\" near Colmar, his presence as chaplain at Basel Minster is recorded from 1429. He was made chamberlain at local commandery of the Order of Saint John in 1443.\nOn the empty pages of \"Sächsische Weltchronik\" manuscript, he recorded the local history of Basel for the years 1439–1471, beginning with the election of Amadeus VIII of Savoy as Pope Felix V and the Armagnacs invasion. His chronicle has the character of informal notes and does not strictly follow chronological order, but it is of high value for the regional history of Basel for this period due to its rich detail.\n"}
{"id": "41029154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41029154", "title": "Ex parte Barton", "text": "Ex parte Barton\n\nIn Ex parte Barton, an important case in South African insolvency law, it appeared, upon the debtor’s application for leave to surrender his estate as insolvent, that he had previously lived in Durban and that all his creditors were in Natal. The court held that the application should be postponed in order for the notice of the application to be published in a Natal newspaper and for the debtor’s schedules to lie for inspection at Durban.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47218937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47218937", "title": "Experiments and Observations on Electricity", "text": "Experiments and Observations on Electricity\n\nThe book came about through the activities of scientists at the Royal Society of London. Franklin sent letters to members of the Society about his experiments on electricity and the observations he had made. Most of these letters went to Peter Collinson. Some of these were read at the society's meetings. There was much interest shown, so some of them were sent to a printer to be published in a magazine. Public interest in Franklin's letters about electricity led the Society to gather together many of the letters to Collinson from Franklin over a two-year period and send them to the printer for publication. This first collection of letters was published in a ninety-page pamphlet in 1751. It was soon followed by other parts that were \"Supplemental\" to the existing edition and eventually a \"New\" publication was sold from the total of all the \"Parts\" produced. Each edition expanded by additional Franklin letters being added. It ultimately became a 496-page volume by 1769. The book inspired others to follow in Franklin's footsteps to do further in-depth research on electricity.\n\nFranklin was first attracted to the study of electricity when he saw the showman Archibald Spencer do magic demonstrations in Boston (1743) and in Philadelphia (1744). He purchased Spencer's equipment and used it for his electricity experiments after these demonstrations were completed. He referred to Spencer as Dr. Spence from Scotland. In 1746, at the age of forty years, Franklin began turning over the affairs of his printing company to his business partner David Hall, and went into semi-retirement so he could carry out research on electricity; initially using Spencer's equipment.\n\nPeter Collinson – a wealthy Quaker cloth merchant, a Fellow of the Royal Society and one of the founders of the Society of Antiquaries of London – donated (in 1746) a Leyden jar battery, a glass tube, and an account of new German experiments in electricity to the Library Company of Philadelphia (founded by Franklin). The account described how to make electricity from the glass tube. Franklin first experimented with static electricity in the middle of 1747, referring to it as \"these new wonders.\" In conducting his initial electrical research, Franklin made use of the unique battery and glass tube provided by Collinson.\n\nThomas Penn, son of William Penn, made an electrostatic machine that supplemented Collinson's equipment. To these Franklin added an electrostatic generating machine of his own design that was more efficient than the one given to him by Penn. It was convenient because it was constructed with a handle, like that of a common grindstone, and turned by the operator. The simple mechanical machine mechanism then spun an axle that had mounted on it a glass sphere that rubbed on a cloth pad. The glass sphere bulb generated 'electric fire' (an electric charge) that was transferred through conductors to a Leyden jar capacitor that held the electric charge that was then used for experimentation. Franklin formed a research core team that consisted of Ebenezer Kinnersley, Thomas Hopkinson, and Philip Syng and developed the first scientific research laboratory in America. He repeated his experiments to obtain the same results and recorded this observation. In this process he showed that anyone could repeat and prove these results themselves of the electrical principle if they did the experiment he detailed. \n\nFranklin spent much time studying this new field of electricity, and from 1747 through 1750 sent many letters to Collinson on his findings. The book consists of a collection of these letters. The book came in pamphlet form for the first three editions. The last two editions were a book volume with hard covers. Franklin's letters explained his experiments and the observations he made from them. He sent these to Collinson to show that the equipment put into the hands of the group of men associated with Library Company of Philadelphia was being put to good use.\n\nWilliam Watson, a scientist specializing in the study of electricity, theorized that perhaps electricity was attracted to conductors that were pointed. Watson received in 1746 from Dr. John Mitchell a lengthy Franklin letter on theories about thunderstorms and pointed conductors as related to electricity. He read part of the letter to fellow members of the Royal Society of London on November 9, 1749. A week later he finished the reading. On December 4 Watson received another similar Franklin letter dated April 29, 1749, from Collinson and read it to the Society on December 21, 1749. Over the next two years Collinson had transmitted to the Society more of Franklin's letters he had received describing electrical experiments done by Franklin and his team of experimenters. Many talked about the tendency of an electrical discharge to be attracted to a pointed conductor that was grounded - the basics to his lightning rod invention to protect wooden buildings such as houses and churches.\n\nWatson turned over some of these Franklin letters to the local publisher Edward Cave, who had them printed in \"The Gentleman's Magazine\" in 1750. In April 1751 Cave printed in a publication more of the letters Collinson had received and they included corrections personally added by Franklin. This publication was titled, \"Experiments and Observations on Electricity, Made in Philadelphia in America by Mr. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN and Communicated in several letters to Mr. P. Collinson of London, F.R.S\" (London). It was a 90-page pamphlet of 86 numbered pages. The pamphlet included an unsigned preface written by Dr. John Fothergill. This first publication of \"Experiments and Observations on Electricity\" sold for the expensive price of two shillings and sixpence British money, .\n\nThe eighteenth century book consists of a collection of letters and essays written by Franklin. Most of the 25 letters in the collection were to Collinson. Some had personal content, but most were about his experiments with electricity and what he had observed from them. These talked about the conclusions he came to after doing scientific experimentation on Leyden jars and lightning storm clouds. He many times related the similarities of how each of these acted and that the principles they followed were identical. This connection ultimately led Franklin to the lightning rod and that the electricity could be diverted harmlessly away from houses and wooden buildings - making it a protection device.\n\nThere were five English editions to this book. The first three editions were not hard cover volumes, but rather just pamphlets with paper covers of collected letters of Franklin. They were carelessly put together when published. Each of these pamphlet editions had supplements of additional letters that were added later and then republished. The first publication of 1751 was supplemented in 1753 with 20 more pages and called \"Supplemental Experiments and Observations, Part II\". It was numbered 89 to 109 and published by E. Cave. This was again supplemented with an additional 44 pages in 1754, numbered 110 to 154, and titled \"New Experiments and Observations, Part III.\" It was published by R. Cave, the son of E. Cave. The second edition published in 1754 was a reprint of parts I and II of the first edition. The third edition published in 1760, 1762, and 1764 was a reprint of all three parts of the first edition and numbered 1–154.\n\nIn this first set of letters Franklin talked about \"electrical fire\", later (1749) changing the terminology to \"electrical fluid\". He wrote to Collinson on June 5, 1747, that his experiments showed that the electrical fire was a new element of matter existing as particles in all ordinary matter. Franklin determined that a friction rubbing process like that of rubbing glass with a cloth does not create these particles, but only temporararily groups them together so that they can be collected and held in a Leyden jar of water and metal. According to Franklin, one side of the Leyden jar had an accumulation of electrical fire, which he labeled as \"positive\" (\"plus\"), and the other side had a deficiency of electrical fire, labeled \"negative\" (\"minus\"). These losses and gains of electrification were exactly equal and are essentially the modern law of charge conservation except that it is now recognized that negative charges exist in their own right, not just as a deficiency of positive charges. It is an important principle in modern science that explains the microphysics of the electrification of gross bodies. In these letters, Franklin introduced technical words that we use today for things related to electricity such as \"plus,\" \"minus,\" \"positive,\" \"negative,\" \"charge,\" \"discharge,\" \"armature,\" \"electric shock,\" \"electrician,\" \"condenser,\" \"conductor,\" and \"battery.\"\n\nFranklin's first experiments explained in this first set of letters to Collinson that the Leyden jar, a type of capacitor, had equal and opposite charges on the inner and outer conductors. This was shown in illustrations in his book. The significant Franklin theory introduced to Collinson in a letter dated April 29, 1747, was the concept of the \"dissectible condenser.\" Today we call this distribution of charges in a device, a capacitor. He observed that a charge was built up on both sides between a piece of nonconducting material. In the case of the Leyden jar this was glass (nonconducting matter) and on each side of it was a metal material (conducting matter). These opposite metal layers had the exact opposite electric charges (positive and negative). He observed that when the wire on the inside of the jar was \"electrised\" positively by a certain amount, that the outer conductor simultaneously became \"electrised\" negatively in the same proportion.\n\nFranklin explained in these letters that in an experiment he did show that the charge was in the glass itself and not in the water within the jar, as had been theorized by others. After a Leyden jar was charged he poured the water from it into another Leyden jar that was not charged. It turned out the electric force was not \"condensed\" in the water itself, as the new Leyden jar had no charge with this water from the first Leyden jar. Then the first jar was refilled with fresh water and it was discovered that there was a charge in this jar. The conclusion then was that it was the glass itself that was the condenser of the electric force. It was further determined by more experimentation that it did not matter what shape the glass was in or if an object was shaped like a glass bottle. It was finally determined that a property of the glass itself was this \"force\" of equal and opposite charges.\n\nFranklin further explains in these letters that the jar did not electrically balance itself, but a wire of some conducting material had to make contact from the inner conductor (plus) to the outer conductor (minus). This way Franklin observed the balancing and combining of the two different states of electricity in the \"miraculous bottle.\" In the later editions of the book Franklin explained in his letters and showed in illustrations an assembly of Leyden jars that he termed \"electrical battery\" following the military term of the time of a \"battery\" being a group of cannons assembled together. Franklin assembled a number of parallel-plate condensers consisting of 11 plates of glass and each were \"armed\" with a lead metal sheet on each side. He hooked them together with wires in a series and then a master wire was attached that could then discharge (balance) the battery when touched to both sides.\n\nThe fourth edition, published in 1769, is the first complete edition in one volume and had hard covers. He added footnotes to make certain issues clearer. In this edition he also added several of his own philosophical essays and completed the volume with an index. The fourth edition was a book volume with hard covers that increased the number of pages from 154 to 496. Franklin added papers on his lightning rod invention, meteorological observations, human nature, worldwide population increase, waterspouts, experiments on amber, and information on his Pennsylvania fireplace invention. This edition had copper plate illustrations of his lightning rod design, new fireplace, and electrical experiments. The fifth English edition was published in 1774. There was little difference between the fourth edition and the fifth edition. The only new document added in the fifth edition, that was not in the fourth edition, was the French experiment with lightning done in 1752. There was an advertisement in the \"Public Advertiser\" London newspaper of September 9, 1774, that promoted the fifth edition.\n\nThe fourth English edition, published in 1769, was personally supervised by Franklin while visiting London from Philadelphia. He made several corrections on different parts of the first three editions and wrote explanatory notes. One important correction Franklin noted in the Forward was that Letters 1 and 2 had been transposed and he had corrected that. He added a letter that was important to him. It was a letter to Collinson dated March 28, 1747. Franklin had thanked him for the gift of the German \"electric tube\" with directions on how to use it to make electricity. He was much appreciative of this, so he made that particular one Letter #1. This then advanced the numbering sequence of the Letters by one from the first three editions.\n\nThere were eleven editions of Experiments and Observations on Electricity. There were five English editions, three French editions, and an edition each in German, Italian and Latin. The first three English editions were similar, but not identical, and consisted of two or three parts. Each of these separate parts were printed and sold individually as a pamphlet. Each had a slight title change (i.e. \"New\", \"Supplemental\") apparently to promote selling additional copies to people that had bought before.\n\n\nThe French translation, published in 1752, contained an experiment suggesting that a long, pointed iron rod would attract a lightning bolt from a thunderstorm cloud. In 1750 Hopkinson suggested to Franklin the concept that electricity is attracted to points. Franklin then carried the idea a step forward and surmised that a pointed iron rod high above a rooftop would attract a lightning bolt, if the bolt was of electricity. Frenchman Thomas-Francois d'Alibald did the actual experiment May 10, 1752, as Franklin had suggested and lightning struck the iron rod. In London it was repeated in Spital Square on July 20, 1752, and again in Chelmsford, Essex, on August 12, 1752. The electricity attraction from a lightning storm was also done by Franklin himself in the kite experiment that he talked about in a letter to Collinson dated October 19, 1752. A man by the name of G. W. Richman was killed in 1753 from electrocution doing the kite experiment. Franklin had proven that lightning bolts and electricity were one and the same. He also showed that this \"electric fluid\" was attracted to a sharply pointed object high in the sky. An iron rod could have the other end put into the ground to create a path for safe conduction of the high voltage electricity. Thus, a way of diverting lightning bolts from wooden buildings and preventing them from going aflame due to lightning hits had been discovered. Franklin's lightning conductor invention, with its lightning rod uppermost point, became a model for the lightning-protection system used in America in the eighteenth century.\n\nKing Louis XV honored Franklin after seeing some of the electrical experiments done in the royal palace at St. Germain near Paris, France. However physicist Jean-Antoine Nollet (1700–1770), a skeptic who had published his own theory on electricity, declared Franklin's ideas were wrong. He claimed in 1753 that Franklin's lightning rod was not only dangerous but useless and would attract lightning bolts to wooden buildings, causing them to be hit more often. Franklin in time proved to the scientific community that his lightning rod invention not only was a protective device, but it also served as a preventive way to divert destructive lightning bolts away from hitting buildings.\n\nAll editions of the book were being printed in Europe until 1941, when the first publication of it was done in the United States by I. Bernard Cohen. The book is Franklin's only scientific work, and is recognized by historians Gary F. Kurutz and Dennis Smith as America's most important scientific book of the eighteenth century. The publication for his scientific observations on electricity made Franklin famous throughout Europe as a serious scientist. Eighteenth-century British polymath Joseph Priestley writes in his book \"The History and Present State of Electricity\" (1767) that nobody had written an in-depth study of electricity with the use of scientific experimentation like this of Franklin's that had been translated into most European languages in the eighteenth century.\n\nBenjamin Franklin was given the Copley Medal by the Royal Society in 1753 in recognition of his work in electricity as reported in this book. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26212134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26212134", "title": "Gesamtkatalog der Wiegendrucke", "text": "Gesamtkatalog der Wiegendrucke\n\nThe Gesamtkatalog der Wiegendrucke (abbreviated as GW) is an ongoing project of the Staatsbibliothek zu Berlin to publish a union catalogue of incunabula. The \"Gesamtkatalog der Wiegendrucke\" is available in part in print and in its entirety—in draft form—via an online database. The first volume of the print catalogue was published in 1925 (Leipzig: Anton Hiersemann) and the most recent volume was completed in 2009, extending to the entry \"Horem\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37445014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37445014", "title": "Global Chinese Pop Chart", "text": "Global Chinese Pop Chart\n\nThe Global Chinese Pop Chart (全球华语歌曲排行榜, \"quánqiú huáyŭ gēqŭ páihángbàng\") is a Chinese language pop music chart compiled by 7 Chinese language radio stations across Asia. It was founded in 2001 by Beijing Music Radio, Shanghai Eastern Broadcasting (), Radio Guangdong, Radio Television Hong Kong, Hit Fm Taiwan, subsequently replaced by Taipei Pop Radio, and Malaysia's 988 FM. \n\nThe chart's definition of \"Chinese language\" covers all three main genres of C-pop: Mandopop, Cantopop and Hokkien pop.\n\n\nThe awards and concert take place in the first week of September each year\n\n"}
{"id": "6827829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6827829", "title": "Grote Spectrum Encyclopedie", "text": "Grote Spectrum Encyclopedie\n\nThe Grote Spectrum Encyclopedie (\"Great Spectrum Encyclopedia\") (published by Het Spectrum, Utrecht between 1974 and 1980) is a Dutch encyclopedia which treats subjects in 5000 large and comprehensive articles (like the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\") with a clear accent on the social sciences. \nEncyclopedia contains about 5000 large detailed articles on various topics with an emphasis on social sciences. All illustrations and design are colored, which is new for this kind of encyclopedias, published in the Netherlands.\nThe editor-in-chief of the encyclopaedia in 1972-1974 was Ines van Eyck , who in 1971-1972 also was preparing articles for the publication.\nThe circulation of the encyclopedia, as a rule, was sold with the delivery of volumes to the house. The total cost was 2500 guilders . As a rule, the possibility of buying on credit was used , the payment of which amounted to 60 guilders per month for a full five years.\nThe rise of new storage media in the 1990s (CD-ROM, DVD) halted the plans for a second edition of the \"Grote Spectrum Encyclopedie\". An actualised supplement did appear in 2002.\n\nThe encyclopedia is functionally illustrated and consists of 20 volumes A-Z, and four index volumes with references to lemmas within the treated subjects. The fourth index volume also contains a comprehensive bibliography (which is not included in the articles themselves). A supplement (volume 25) appeared in 1984.\n"}
{"id": "826484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=826484", "title": "ISO 3166-1 numeric", "text": "ISO 3166-1 numeric\n\nISO 3166-1 numeric (or numeric-3) codes are three-digit country codes defined in ISO 3166-1, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), to represent countries, dependent territories, and special areas of geographical interest. They are similar to the three-digit country codes developed and maintained by the United Nations Statistics Division, from which they originate in its UN M.49 standard. They were first included as part of the ISO 3166 standard in its second edition in 1981, but they were released by the United Nations Statistics Division since as early as 1970.\n\nAn advantage of numeric codes over alphabetic codes is script (writing system) independence. The ISO 3166-1 alphabetic codes (alpha-2 and alpha-3) use letters from the 26-letter English alphabet and are suitable for languages based on the Latin alphabet. For people and systems using non-Latin scripts (such as Arabic or Japanese), the English alphabet may be unavailable or difficult to use, understand, or correctly interpret. While numeric codes overcome the problems of script dependence, this independence comes at the cost of loss of mnemonic convenience.\n\nAnother advantage is that when countries merge or split, they will get a new numeric code, while the alphabetic code stays in use for (a part of) that country. A persistent number is needed in datasets with historical country information.\n\nThe following is a complete list of the current officially assigned ISO 3166-1 numeric codes, using a title case version of the English short names officially used by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA):\n\nUser-assigned code elements are codes at the disposal of users who need to add further names of countries, territories, or other geographical entities to their in-house application of ISO 3166-1, and the ISO 3166/MA will never use these codes in the updating process of the standard. The numeric codes to can be user-assigned.\n\nWhen countries merge, split, or undergo territorial change, their numeric codes are withdrawn and new numeric codes are assigned. For example:\n\nIf a country changes its name without any territorial change, its numeric code remains the same. For example, when Burma was renamed Myanmar without territorial change in 1989, its alphabetic codes were changed, but its numeric code has remained the same.\n\nThe following numeric codes have been withdrawn from ISO 3166-1:\n\nThe following numeric codes were also assigned by the United Nations Statistics Division, but these territories were never officially included in ISO 3166-1:\n\nIn the UN M.49 standard developed by the United Nations Statistics Division, additional numeric codes are used to represent geographical regions and groupings of countries and areas for statistical processing purposes, but these codes are not included in ISO 3166-1. Unlike alphabetic codes, there are no reserved numeric codes in ISO 3166-1.\n\n"}
{"id": "50600476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50600476", "title": "JOSM", "text": "JOSM\n\nJOSM () \"(Java OpenStreetMap Editor)\" is a free software desktop editing tool for OpenStreetMap geodata created in Java, originally developed by Immanuel Scholz and currently maintained by Dirk Stöcker. It has a lot of advanced features, but also more complicated user interface than default online editor iD.\n\nSome notable features of JOSM are importing GPX files (GPS tracks), working with aerial imagery (including WMS, TMS and WMTS protocols), support for multiple cartographic projections, layers, relations editing, data validation tools, data filtering, offline work, presets and rendering styles. JOSM provides more than 200 keyboard shortcuts for the core functions.\n\nMany additional features (like tools for drawing buildings, adding Wikipedia links or viewing data in 3D) are available through the plugins. There are more than 100 of them in the repository.\n\nFirst changeset was created on 27 September 2005. First beta version (which required Java 5) was made available on 4 October 2005 and JOSM 1.0 has been released on 22 January 2006. Current versioning scheme, using code changeset number, was introduced in 2008.\n\nIn 2014 project logo has been replaced with the new artwork, which won a design contest. From this year stable releases are identified with additional YY.MM internal version number (following r6763 - 14.01), however they may not exactly reflect the release date.\n\nSince revision 10786 (16.07) released on 12 August 2016 support for Java versions earlier than 8 has been dropped.\n\nThe highest number of edits in OSM is done using JOSM. The software was used to perform several large scale OSM imports, including TIGER data in the United States.\n\nJOSM can also be used for editing an OSM sister project OpenHistoricalMap. It's included as a package in many Linux distributions like Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, Arch Linux and the OSGEO Live DVD\n\nVarious tutorials are available. The LearnOSM Tutorial, translated in 16 languages, has a section on JOSM. It covers the editing process, the tools, the plugins, the presets, the imagery functionalities, conflict resolution and other features.\n\n"}
{"id": "59182847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59182847", "title": "Kambojika Putta Khemara Tarei", "text": "Kambojika Putta Khemara Tarei\n\nKambojika Putta Khemara Tarei (Khmer: កម្ពោជិកបុត្តាខេមរាតរី) is a dragon boat from Cambodia. The boat holds the Guinness record of being the longest dragon boat in the world. With an overall length of , in November 2018, the boat beat the previous record of set by a Chinese dragon boat in May 2016. The boat was showcased during the 2018 Water Festival in Phnom Penh.\n\nThe boat was built to remember the history of production and use of dragon boats by the Khmer people and Khmer kings in older times, who used dragon boats as means of transport to defend the territory. The boat was built by \"Union of Youth Federations of Cambodia\" at an overall cost of . Construction of the boat began in April 2018 and it took nearly seven months to finish the construction. The boat measures in overall length, in width and it can accommodate 179 oarsman. More than 13,000 people participated in the construction of the boat and it was completely hand-made. \n\nThe name \"Kambojika Putta Khemara Tarei\" translates to “Dragon Boat of Khmer Youth in Cambodian Territory\".\n\nThe 179 oarsman in the boat symbolizes the day Cambodia was liberated from Khmer Rouge (7 January 1979); 1 being the month and 79 the year.\n"}
{"id": "12886486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12886486", "title": "List of DNS record types", "text": "List of DNS record types\n\nThis list of DNS record types is an overview of resource records (RRs) permissible in zone files of the Domain Name System (DNS). It also contains pseudo-RRs.\n\nOther types of records simply provide some types of information (for example, an HINFO record gives a description of the type of computer/OS a host uses), or others return data used in experimental features. The \"type\" field is also used in the protocol for various operations.\n\nProgress has rendered some of the originally defined record-types obsolete.\nOf the records listed at IANA, some have limited use, for various reasons. Some are marked obsolete in the list, some are for very obscure services, some are for older versions of services, and some have special notes saying they are \"not right\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21036915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21036915", "title": "List of aerospace museums", "text": "List of aerospace museums\n\nThis is a list of aerospace museums and museums that contain significant aerospace-related exhibits throughout the world. The aerospace museums are listed alphabetically by country and their article name. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAerospace museums\nOther museums with aerospace exhibits :\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48423600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48423600", "title": "Melena del Sur Municipal Museum", "text": "Melena del Sur Municipal Museum\n\nMelena del Sur Municipal Museum is a museum located in the 26th street in Melena del Sur, Cuba. It was established on 16 February 1982.\n\nThe museum holds collections on history and weaponry.\n\n"}
{"id": "44265974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44265974", "title": "Mosby's Dictionary of Medicine, Nursing &amp; Health Professions", "text": "Mosby's Dictionary of Medicine, Nursing &amp; Health Professions\n\nMosby's Dictionary of Medicine, Nursing & Health Professions is a dictionary of health related topics. Its latest edition, the 8th edition, published in 2009, contains 2240 pages and 2400 colour illustrations. It includes some encyclopaedic definitions and 12 appendixes containing reference information. Earlier versions are titled \"Mosby's Medical, Nursing & Allied Health Dictionary\".\n"}
{"id": "31427197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31427197", "title": "Museum label", "text": "Museum label\n\nA museum label or caption is a label describing an object exhibited in a museum or one introducing a room or area.\n\nKim Kenney, curator of the William McKinley Presidential Library and Museum says that the first label a visitor should see should explain your exhibit display in general. The introduction label should be a “teaser” and talk about the main sections of your exhibit to encourage people to see the rest. If there is something significant or special of the main exhibit, it should be introduced here. At this point the visitor should have a good feeling what the museum is generally about. Visitors should understand immediately what they are going to see and they should desire to want to see the entire exhibit. Perhaps a brochure would accompany the introduction explaining the main museum, the price, and the hours.\n\nA section label is a small introduction. It consists of sub-topics in a museum exhibition. Kenney says they should represent the \"meat\" of the museum. If the section is large, perhaps more than one section label is in order. The description should consist of 100-200 words or thereabouts. The visitor should not be strained to read all the labels, so they should be on the short side if anything.\n\nObject labels are the smallest. They just describe the individual object they are displayed next to. Typically the title of the work or a descriptive title phrase is given, followed by the date and place of creation, and the materials or technique of the object. Increasingly, there may be a brief description or commentary. An accession number is often given, and often the accession date. If the object is included in an audio guide or some other form of tour, there may be a symbol indicating this. Kenney says she prefers in an object label a one word title followed by a 25–50 word description for a museum label. She explains that people want specific aspects of the object they might not notice at first glance or might not have already known (i.e. something unusual, material made of, date of artifact, who made). Most people want to know specifics like when it was made, why it was made, usage and when it became part of the museum.\n\nPractice varies as to whether accession dates and donor information are included. Some donations, especially from government organizations, may specify a credit on the label. Loaned objects are usually specified in some way. It is the opinion of Kenney that donor information clutters up the object label. She believes it is better to give a list of donors on a credit panel.\n\nThe first known museum labels are from the Ennigaldi-Nanna's museum originally dating to circa 530 BCE.\n\nThe museum labels of the 20th century and 21st century BCE items found in Ennigaldi's museum were labeled in three different languages on clay cylinders as to what the centuries old objects were.\n\nSome of these artifacts were:\n\nMuseum-like behavior occurred as early as the 19th-century BCE which gave indications of steps of labeling and cataloging antiquities.\nA \"museum label\" cylinder tablet describing 100-year-old antiquity objects of circa 2000 BCE read,\n\nThere are studies recently done that demonstrate the feasibility of a wireless Web-based tool for an in-gallery paperless digital label system, perhaps in the form of \"Digital Label Towers\" or wall mounted digital displays. Some concepts that could be used then is changing configurations of the museum labels, digitally updating the electronic museum label, usability on various display systems, and integrate third party content. \n\nOther advanced digital technology used by some museums is the use of barcodes on their museum labels.\n\n"}
{"id": "30981181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30981181", "title": "OpenDJ", "text": "OpenDJ\n\nOpenDJ is a directory server which implements a wide range of Lightweight Directory Access Protocol and related standards, including full compliance with LDAPv3 but also support for Directory Service Markup Language (DSMLv2). Written in Java, OpenDJ offers multi-master replication, access control, and many extensions.\n\nOpenDJ began as a fork of OpenDS, an LDAP / DSML server which originated in 2005 as an internal project at Sun Microsystems started by Neil A. Wilson, and later grew into an open source project, maintained by Oracle Corporation; following Oracle's acquisition of Sun, OpenDJ is the main trunk developed ForgeRock. and maintained by Open Identity Platform Community. OpenDJ source code and binary distribution are available under the Common Development and Distribution License (CDDL).\n\nThe work on OpenDS started as an internal Sun project around February 2005. OpenDS was initially developed primarily by Neil A. Wilson. Wilson was joined by a small team of engineers from Sun's Directory Server team. The code was open-sourced in June 2006.\n\nSun increased the number of developers working on OpenDS technology after open-sourcing the code. Developers outside Sun also joined the new open-source project. Community members like Boni.org, Penrose, and JBoss began to use OpenDS in their projects. In early 2008 the OpenDS project had over 20 regular contributors.\n\nIn April 2007, the project owners modified the project governance. The text \"This Project Lead, who is appointed by Sun Microsystems, is responsible for managing the entire project\" was replaced by \"This Project Lead, who is appointed and removed by a majority vote of the Project Owners, is responsible for managing the entire project\".\n\nIn September 2007, the project owners were laid off from Sun Microsystems.\n\nLate in 2007, questions arose as to whether the project was governed as an open source project. One of the project owners complained publicly that Sun Microsystems had required project owners to accept governance changes to the project in order to keep their benefits. The team resigned from their project owner role. Simon Phipps, Chief Open source Officer of Sun Microsystems, claimed that Sun was only reverting governance changes that had never been approved. John Waters also published an article on the topic.\n\nOpenDJ began after the acquisition of Sun Microsystems by Oracle. At that time, Oracle announced that Sun OpenDS Standard Edition was not seen as a strategic product, although the investment on the OpenDS source code would continue. Sun had supported commercial versions of Sun OpenDS Standard Edition since version 1.0 in 2008.\n\nMid-September 2010, Ludovic Poitou, then OpenDS community leader and co-project owner, left Oracle for ForgeRock.\n\nIn October 2010, Oracle provided an OpenDS 2.2.1 update to the community with several fixes.\n\nIn December 2010, ForgeRock released OpenDJ 2.4.0 including fixes and support for new features like Collective Attributes, Microsoft Active Directory Permissive Modification Control, and multiple objectclass inheritance.\n\nIn late January 2011 Matthew Swift, previously \"responsible for the core server\" of the OpenDS project joined ForgeRock to work on OpenDJ as product architect. Starting in mid-February 2011, ForgeRock began to build an \"OpenDJ product suite, comprising an open source LDAP Directory Server, client tools, and LDAP SDK\" as a Maven project, with the tools and SDK modules appearing first.\n\nIn 2011, a few months after the acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Oracle released Oracle Unified Directory, based on OpenDS.\n\nForgeRock posted an OpenDJ roadmap through release 4, targeted for 2015.\n\nSince November 2016, ForgeRock closed OpenDJ source code, renamed OpenDJ to Forgerock Directory Services and started to distribute it under commercial license. \n\nOpenDJ 2.4, released December 2010, provided improvements corresponding to many of those defined, but not yet scheduled for OpenDS 2.4\n\nOpenDJ 2.6, released June 2013, provided a REST to LDAP interface allowing easy and secure access to the data, also eased integration with other services, provided native packages for Linux, and the LDAP client SDK.\n\nThe latest Forgerock release of OpenDJ is 3.0.0.\n\nOpenDJ 3.0 is expected to include directory proxy services, but the support for LDAP Transactions that was originally planned was dropped due to the incompatibility with the loose consistency model of LDAP.\n\nOpenDJ 3.1 and 3.2 are slated to include enhanced directory proxy services.\n\nOpenDJ 4.1.4 resumed to maintain by Open Identity Platform Community and issued new release: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "36886551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36886551", "title": "Parade Grounds", "text": "Parade Grounds\n\nThe Parade Grounds is a large concrete open area on the south end of Alcatraz Island, off the coast of San Francisco, USA. They lie beyond Building 64. They were originally built in the 1860s on a barren site by the U.S. military who used the site for military drills and parades.\n\nAfter the island became a Federal Penitentiary in 1934, the Parade Grounds was used as a playground, especially on weekends and holidays, and was used host special events, often organized by the Officer's Club. As the nearby Building 64 aged and fell into disrepair, the operators of the prison funded several new residential blocks on the square. Gardens were developed around them, and handball and weightlifting facilities developed for the employees and their families. The children living in the quarters on the Parade Ground were known to other children and their families on Alcatraz as \"the topside kids\" because they lived above those residing in Building 64 on the dock below.\n\nThe island ceased use as a jail in 1963 and the residential buildings and gardens which were added were razed to the ground by the General Services Administration in the 1970s, but the foundation marks can still be seen.\n"}
{"id": "51082587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51082587", "title": "Pierre-Ange Vieillard", "text": "Pierre-Ange Vieillard\n\nPierre-Ange Vieillard de Boismartin (17 June 1778 – 12 January 1862) was a 19th-century French poet, playwright and literary critic.\n\nVieillard was the son of Antoine Vieillard de Boismartin, a lawyer at the Parlement of Rouen, then mayor of Saint-Lô, known for his beautiful and generous defense of the Verdure family (1780-1789), earning him the direct praise of Louis XVI, to whom he was introduced, and a kind of civic ovation in the midst of the National Constituent Assembly, during the session of January 30, 1790.\n\nA payor at the Treasure (1806), Royal censor (1820-1824), director of the mayors' newspaper (1822-1824), literary critic by the \"Moniteur universel et officiel\", director and chief curator of the bibliothèque de l'Arsenal, then librarian at the Senate in 1854, where he succeeded Paul-Mathieu Laurent, Vieillard began early in the dramatic career. He produced no less than 30 plays, 24 of which were presented in different theaters, such as the Opéra, the Opéra-Comique, the Théâtre-Français and the Théâtre du Vaudeville.\n\nThe verve he spent in these various works, where he worked with Armand Gouffé, Georges Duval, René de Chazet, Dumersan, Jules Merle and Joseph Pain, did not prevent him to exploit the literary criticism which asked for more seriousness and a more complete maturity of mind on his part. Vieillard published in several newspapers, mainly in the former \"Moniteur universel\", many articles that reflected the breadth and variety of his knowledge.\n\nHe also became one of the principal editors of the \"Encyclopédie des gens du monde\", where he was specially commissioned to write biographies about famous men of the French Revolution. Well versed in the history of that time, which he lived, the moderation of his opinions and the uprightness of his character let him naturally assess accurately the events and actors. Thus he could believe he was authorized to contribute the \"Le Moniteur Universel\" a series of studies on the \"\" by Lamartine, a work interrupted by the Revolution of 1848.\n\nVieillard also had in the highest degree a feeling for music ; the last pamphlets he published in 1855 at the age of 78, testify of the passion of this dilettante. \"Méhul\", \"Madame Scio\", \"Vicissitudes d’un librettiste de l’ancien opéra\" are the titles of these curious and interesting studies reproduced by \"le Ménestrel\". Vieillard was particularly clever at finding a musical theme in a dramatic situation or a legend. At various occasions, the Académie des beaux-arts asked him seven cantatas. Only one was crowned and executed at the solemn session of the prize at the Institut in 1845. This time, the poet and the musician had drawn their inspirations in the ballad of Imogine, borrowed from \"the Monk\" by Matthew Gregory Lewis.\n\nVieillard married Anaïs-Henriette Formey Saint-Louvent (16 February 1802, Saint-Lô – 16 November 1873, Versailles) 29 March 1826. He was made a chevalier of the Order of The Lily in 1814 and of the ordre royal de la Légion d'honneur in 1815, and was also a member of the académies de Caen and Cherbourg.\n\nVieillard signed his works under different forms of his name or initials and the pen names Madame P.V. de L.B. et Jules.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8453780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8453780", "title": "Pitești Prison", "text": "Pitești Prison\n\nThe Pitești Prison () was a penal facility in Pitești, Romania, best remembered for the reeducation experiments (also known as \"Experimentul Pitești\" – the \"Pitești Experiment\" or \"Fenomenul Pitești\" – the \"Pitești Phenomenon\") carried out between December 1949 and September 1951, during Communist party rule. The experiment, implemented by a group of prisoners under the guidance of the prison administration, was designed as an attempt at violently \"reeducating\" the mostly young political prisoners, primarily supporters of the ultra-nationalist Iron Guard, as well as former members of the National Peasants' and National Liberal parties or Zionist members of the Romanian Jewish community. Religious inmates also included Christian seminarians. The experiment's goal was for prisoners to discard past political and religious convictions, and, eventually, to alter their personalities to the point of absolute obedience. Estimates for the total number of people passed through the experiment range from up to 1,000 to 5,000. \n\nAfter the purging of Romanian leader Ana Pauker, the experiment was halted as the Romanian communist regime was Romanianized. The overseers were put under trial; while twenty of the participating prisoners were sentenced to death, prison officials were handed down light sentences.\n\nJournalist and anti-communist activist Virgil Ierunca referred to the \"reeducation experiment\" as the largest and most intensive brainwashing torture program in the Eastern Bloc. In even stronger terms, Nobel Laureate and gulag survivor Alexander Solzhenitsyn called it \"the most terrible act of barbarism in the contemporary world.\"\n\nThe prison itself was built at an earlier stage. Work on it had begun in the late 1930s, under King Carol II, and had been completed during Ion Antonescu's rule (\"see Romania during World War II\"). The first political prisoners it housed arrived in 1942; these were high school students suspected of having taken part in the Legionnaires' rebellion. For a while after the proclamation of a Romanian People's Republic, it continued to house primarily those found guilty of misdemeanors.\n\nEarly attempts at \"reeducation\" had occurred at the prison in Suceava, continuing in a violent manner in Pitești and, less violently, in Gherla prison. The group of overseers had been formed from people who had themselves been arrested and found guilty of political crimes. Their leader, Eugen Țurcanu, a prisoner and former member of the Iron Guard, who had also shortly joined the Communist Party before being purged, dissatisfied with the progress in Suceava, proposed using violent means in order to enhance the process, obtaining the agreement of the Pitești prison administration. Ţurcanu, who was probably acting on the orders of Securitate deputy chief Alexandru Nikolski, selected a tight unit of reeducation survivors as his assistants in carrying out political tasks. This group was called the \"Organizaţia Deţinuţilor cu Convingeri Comuniste\" (ODCC, \"Organization of Convinced Communist Detainees\"), and included the future Orthodox priest and dissident Gheorghe Calciu-Dumitreasa and the Jewish Petrică Fux.\n\nThe process begun after that date involved psychological punishment (mainly through humiliation) and physical torture.\n\nDetainees, who were subject to regular and severe beatings, were also required to engage in torturing each other, with the goal of discouraging past loyalties. Guards would force them to attend scheduled or ad-hoc political instruction sessions, on topics such as dialectical materialism and Joseph Stalin's \"History of the CPSU(B) Short Course\", usually accompanied by random violence and encouraged delation (\"demascare\", lit. \"unmasking\") for various real or invented misdemeanors.\n\nEach subject of the experiment was initially thoroughly interrogated, with torture applied as a mean to expose intimate details of his life (\"external unmasking\"). Hence, they were required to reveal everything they were thought to have hidden from previous interrogations; hoping to escape torture, many prisoners would confess imaginary misdeeds. The second phase, \"internal unmasking\", required the tortured to reveal the names of those who had behaved less brutal or somewhat indulgently towards them in detention.\n\nPublic humiliation was also enforced, usually at the third stage (\"public moral unmasking\"), inmates were forced to denounce all their personal beliefs, loyalties, and values. Notably, religious inmates had to blaspheme religious symbols and sacred texts. According to Virgil Ierunca—anti-communist activist and member of the Presidential Commission for the Study of the Communist Dictatorship in Romania—Christian baptism was gruesomely mocked. Guards chanted baptismal rites as buckets of urine and fecal matter were brought to inmates. The inmate's head was pushed into the raw sewage. His head would remain submerged almost to the point of death. The head was then raised, the inmate allowed to breathe, only to have his head pushed back into the sewage. Ierunca further states that \"prisoners' whole bodies were burned with cigarettes; their buttocks would begin to rot, and their skin fell off as though they suffered from leprosy. Others were forced to swallow spoons of excrement, and when they threw it back up, they were forced to eat their own vomit.\" The inmates were required to accept the notion that their own family members had various criminal and grotesque features; they were required to author false autobiographies, comprising accounts of deviant behavior.\n\nIn addition to physical violence, inmates subject to \"reeducation\" were supposed to work for exhausting periods in humiliating jobs (for example, cleaning the floor with a rag clenched between the teeth). Inmates were malnourished and kept in degrading and unsanitary conditions.\n\nHistorian Adrian Cioroianu argued that techniques used by the ODCC were ultimately derived from Anton Makarenko's controversial pedagogy and penology principles in respect to rehabilitation.\n\nThe prison also ensured a preliminary selection for the labor camps at the Danube-Black Sea Canal, Ocnele Mari, and other sites, where squads of former inmates were supposed to extend the experiment.\n\nIn 1952, as Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej successfully maneuvered against the Minister of the Interior Teohari Georgescu, the process was stopped by the authorities themselves. The ODCC secretly faced trial for abuse, and over twenty death sentences were handed out (Ţurcanu was held responsible for the murder of 30 prisoners, and the abuse exercised on 780 others); Securitate officials who had overseen the experiment, including Colonel Teodor Sepeanu, were tried the following year; all were given light sentences, and were freed soon after. Responding to new ideological guidelines, the court concluded that the experiment had been the result of successful infiltration of American and Horia Sima's Iron Guard agents into the Securitate, with the goal of discrediting Romanian law enforcement.\n\nAbandoned and partially in ruin, the building was sold to a construction firm in 1991 (after the Revolution of 1989; several of the facilities have either been torn down or suffered major changes). A memorial was built in front of the prison's entrance.\n\nAccording to the Romanian historian Mircea Stanescu, tens of people died in the \"Pitești experiment\", but its aim was not to kill the people, but to \"reeducate\" them.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23888", "title": "Poltergeist", "text": "Poltergeist\n\nIn ghostlore, a poltergeist (; German for \"noisy ghost\" or \"noisy spirit\") is a type of ghost or spirit that is responsible for physical disturbances, such as loud noises and objects being moved or destroyed. They are purportedly capable of pinching, biting, hitting, and tripping people. Most accounts of poltergeists describe the movement or levitation of objects such as furniture and cutlery, or noises such as knocking on doors.\n\nThey have traditionally been described as troublesome spirits who haunt a particular person instead of a specific location. Such alleged poltergeist manifestations have been reported in many cultures and countries including the United States, India‚ Japan, Brazil, Australia, and most European nations. Early accounts date back to the 1st century.\n\nThe word \"poltergeist\" comes from the German language words \"poltern\" (\"to make sound\" and \"to rumble\") and \"Geist\" (\"ghost\" and \"spirit\"), and the term itself translates as \"noisy ghost\", \"rumble-ghost\" or a \"loud spirit\". A synonym coined by René Sudre is \"thorybism\", from Greek \"thorybein\" (\"to make noise or uproar; throw into confusion\").\n\nMany claimed poltergeist events have proved on investigation to be hoaxes.\n\nPsychical researcher Frank Podmore proposed the 'naughty little girl' theory for poltergeist cases (many of which have seemed to centre on an adolescent, usually a girl). He found that the centre of the disturbance was often a child who was throwing objects around to fool or scare people for attention. Skeptical investigator Joe Nickell says that claimed poltergeist incidents typically originate from \"an individual who is motivated to cause mischief\". According to Nickell:\n\n\"In the typical poltergeist outbreak, small objects are hurled through the air by unseen forces, furniture is overturned, or other disturbances occur -- usually just what could be accomplished by a juvenile trickster determined to plague credulous adults.\"\n\nNickell writes that reports are often exaggerated by credulous witnesses.\n\n\"Time and again in other “poltergeist” outbreaks, witnesses have reported an object leaping from its resting place supposedly on its own, when it is likely that the perpetrator had secretly obtained the object sometime earlier and waited for an opportunity to fling it, even from outside the room—thus supposedly proving he or she was innocent.\"\n\nAccording to research in anomalistic psychology, claims of poltergeist activity can be explained by psychological factors such as illusion, memory lapses, and wishful thinking. A study (Lange and Houran, 1998) wrote that poltergeist experiences are delusions \"resulting from the affective and cognitive dynamics of percipients' interpretation of ambiguous stimuli\". Psychologist Donovan Rawcliffe has written that almost all poltergeist cases that have been investigated turned out to be based on trickery, whilst the rest are attributable to psychological factors such as hallucinations.\n\nAttempts have also been made to scientifically explain poltergeist disturbances that have not been traced to fraud or psychological factors. Skeptic and magician Milbourne Christopher found that some cases of poltergeist activity can be attributed to unusual air currents, such as a 1957 case on Cape Cod where downdrafts from an uncovered chimney became strong enough to blow a mirror off of a wall, overturn chairs and knock things off shelves.\n\nIn the 1950s, Guy William Lambert proposed that reported poltergeist phenomena could be explained by the movement of underground water causing stress on houses. He suggested that water turbulence could cause strange sounds or structural movement of the property, possibly causing the house to vibrate and move objects. Later researchers, such as Alan Gauld and Tony Cornell, tested Lambert's hypothesis by placing specific objects in different rooms and subjecting the house to strong mechanical vibrations. They discovered that although the structure of the building had been damaged, only a few of the objects moved a very short distance. The skeptic Trevor H. Hall criticized the hypothesis claiming if it was true \"the building would almost certainly fall into ruins.\" According to Richard Wiseman the hypothesis has not held up to scrutiny.\n\nMichael Persinger has theorized that seismic activity could cause poltergeist phenomena. However, Persinger's claims regarding the effects of environmental geomagnetic activity on paranormal experiences have not been independently replicated and, like his findings regarding the God helmet, may simply be explained by the suggestibility of participants.\n\nDavid Turner, a retired physical chemist, suggested that ball lightning might cause the \"spooky movement of objects blamed on poltergeists.\"\n\nParapsychologists Nandor Fodor and William G. Roll suggested that poltergeist activity can be explained by psychokinesis.\n\nPoltergeist activity has often been believed to be the work of malicious spirits by spiritualists. According to Allan Kardec, the founder of Spiritism, poltergeists are manifestations of disembodied spirits of low level, belonging to the sixth class of the third order. Under this explanation, they are believed to be closely associated with the elements (fire, air, water, earth).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1450093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1450093", "title": "Preservation Virginia", "text": "Preservation Virginia\n\nFounded in 1889, the Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities was the United States' first statewide historic preservation group. In 2003 the organization adopted the new name APVA Preservation Virginia to reflect a broader focus on statewide Preservation and in 2009 it shortened its name to Preservation Virginia. Preservation Virginia owns historic sites across Virginia including Historic Jamestowne, located at Jamestown, Virginia, site of the first permanent English settlement in North America, and the Cape Henry Light, one of the first public works projects of the United States of America.\n\nPreservation Virginia has helped preserve several key historic properties and items. Its 1889 rescue of the Powder Magazine in Williamsburg came decades before Colonial Williamsburg's creation. Its mission is similar to organizations such as the National Trust for Historic Preservation in the U.S. and The National Trust in Britain, however Preservation Virginia also seeks to cultivate an awareness of the importance of Virginia's heritage as an \"economic asset\".\n\nThe organization's branches represent Preservation Virginia across the state; in Richmond, Preservation Virginia's self-governing affiliate is Historic Richmond Foundation, which merged in July 2005 with Preservation Virginia's William Byrd Branch.\n\nPreservation Virginia also operates the statewide revolving fund, which protects historic properties with easements before placing them on the market, and organizes an annual Preservation Conference. Starting in 1994, a major archaeological campaign conducted by Preservation Virginia at Jamestown known as Jamestown Rediscovery has discovered the remains of the original 1607 settlement, and greatly increased the knowledge of Jamestown.\n\nPreservation Virginia has operated a revolving fund program since 1989. The program is dedicated to saving historic property in the state of Virginia that is at risk of destruction from either demolition or severe neglect.\n\nPreservation Virginia museum sites include:\n\nPreservation Virginia also manages Warner Hall Graveyard in Gloucester and the Cub Creek Church site in Charlotte County.\n\nPreservation Virginia owned and restored many historic properties that are now owned and operated as museums by other organizations. Some of the properties are open on a limited basis or by appointment.\n\n\nPreservation Virginia formerly operated several sites in Fredericksburg, which are now operated by Washington Heritage Museums.\n\n"}
{"id": "10554843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10554843", "title": "Proclamation to the inhabitants of the former Grand Duchy of Lithuania", "text": "Proclamation to the inhabitants of the former Grand Duchy of Lithuania\n\nThe Proclamation to the Inhabitants of the Former Grand Duchy of Lithuania was a bilingual proclamation, formulated by Józef Piłsudski and distributed mainly in Vilnius (Wilno) on April 22, 1919. The proclamation was printed in the Polish and Lithuanian languages after Polish forces captured Vilnius in the Vilna offensive during the Polish–Soviet War. It was a statement of Piłsudski's political intentions, and contained a blueprint for his Międzymorze federation. The declaration was sharply criticized by both Polish and Lithuanian nationalists.\n\nIn issuing the proclamation bilingually, Piłsudski was appealing to the Lithuanians, hoping to recreate the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. The style of the proclamation, the ideas contained within it, and the dramatic turn of phrase were definitely Piłsudski's, and reflected his position on the political and military situation he wished to resolve. Piłsudski pledged to ordain \"elections which would take place on the basis of secret, universal and direct voting, without distinction between the sexes\" and to \"create an opportunity for settling your nationality problems and religious affairs in a manner that you yourself will determine, without any kind of force or pressure from Poland.\" \n\nPiłdudski's proclamation was aimed at showing good will both to Lithuanians and international diplomats. It succeeded with the latter, as the proclamation dealt a blow to the image of 'Polish conquest' and replaced it with the image of 'Poland fighting with Bolshevik dictatorship and liberating other nations'. However, the Lithuanians who demanded exclusive control over the city saw the proclamation as a facade for Polish imperialism. Piłsudski's words also caused much controversy on the Polish political scene as they were not debated in the Sejm. This caused much anger among Piłsudski's opponents from the National Democracy faction. Deputies from Polish People's Party demanded incorporation of the Vilnius Region into Poland, and even accused Piłsudski of treason. However Piłsudski's supporters in the Polish Socialist Party managed to deflect those attacks.\n\n"}
{"id": "35828601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35828601", "title": "S v Goliath", "text": "S v Goliath\n\nS v Goliath is an important case in South African law. It was heard in the Appellate Division on 24 September 1971, with judgment handed down on 20 March 1972.\n\nOn a charge of murder, compulsion can constitute a complete defence. The court held that when an acquittal may occur on such a charge on such a ground will depend on the particular circumstances of each case. The whole factual complex must be carefully examined and adjudicated upon with the greatest care.\n\nThe state, the court held, had no full right of appeal. When it reserved a question of law under section 366 of the Criminal Procedure Act which was dependent upon the existence of certain facts, it was necessary for the state to set out those facts properly and in detail in the record as part of the setting out of the question of law.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46689", "title": "Saracen", "text": "Saracen\n\nSaracen was a term widely used among Christian writers in Europe during the Middle Ages. The term's meaning evolved during its history. In the early centuries of the Common Era, Greek and Latin writings used this term to refer to the people who lived in desert areas in and near the Roman province of Arabia Petraea, and in Arabia Deserta. In Europe during the Early Middle Ages, the term came to be associated with tribes of Arabia. The oldest source mentioning the term Saracen dates back to the 7th century. It was found in Doctrina Jacobi, a commentary that discussed the event of the Arab conquests on Palestine.\n\nBy the 12th century, \"Saracen\" had become synonymous with \"Muslim\" in Medieval Latin literature. Such expansion in the meaning of the term had begun centuries earlier among the Byzantine Greeks, as evidenced in documents from the 8th century. In the Western languages before the 16th century, \"Saracen\" was commonly used to refer to Muslim Arabs, and the words \"Muslim\" and \"Islam\" were generally not used (with a few isolated exceptions).\n\nThe Latin term \"Saraceni\" is of unknown original meaning. There are claims of it being derived from the Semitic triliteral root \"srq\" \"to steal, rob, plunder\", and perhaps more specifically from the noun \"sāriq\" (), pl. \"sariqīn\" (), which means \"thief, marauder, plunderer\". Other possible Semitic roots are \"šrq\" \"east\" and \"šrkt\" \"tribe, confederation\". In his \"Levantine Diary\", covering the years 1699-1740, the Damascene writer ibn Kanan () used the term \"sarkan\" to mean \"travel on a military mission\" from the Near East to parts of Southern Europe which were under Ottoman Empire rule, particularly Cyprus and Rhodes.\n\nPtolemy's 2nd-century work, \"Geography\", describes \"Sarakēnḗ\" () as a region in the northern Sinai Peninsula. Ptolemy also mentions a people called the \"Sarakēnoí\" () living in the northwestern Arabian Peninsula (near neighbor to the Sinai). Eusebius in his \"Ecclesiastical history\" narrates an account wherein Pope Dionysius of Alexandria mentions Saracens in a letter while describing the persecution of Christians by the Roman emperor Decius: \"Many were, in the Arabian mountain, enslaved by the barbarous 'sarkenoi'.\" The \"Augustan History\" also refers to an attack by \"Saraceni\" on Pescennius Niger's army in Egypt in 193, but provides little information as to identifying them.\n\nBoth Hippolytus of Rome and Uranius mention three distinct peoples in Arabia during the first half of the third century: the \"Taeni\", the \"Saraceni\" and the \"Arabes\". The \"Taeni\", later identified with the Arab people called \"Tayy\", were located around Khaybar (an oasis north of Medina) and also in an area stretching up to the Euphrates. The \"Saraceni\" were placed north of them. These Saracens, located in the northern Hejaz, were described as people with a certain military ability who were opponents of the Roman Empire and who were classified by the Romans as barbarians.\n\nThe Saracens are described as forming the \"equites\" (heavy cavalry) from Phoenicia and Thamud. In one document the defeated enemies of Diocletian's campaign in the Syrian Desert are described as Saracens. Other 4th-century military reports make no mention of Arabs but refer to as 'Saracens' groups ranging as far east as Mesopotamia that were involved in battles on both the Sasanian and Roman sides. The Saracens were named in the Roman administrative document \"Notitia Dignitatum\"—dating from the time of Theodosius I in the 4th century—as comprising distinctive units in the Roman army. They were distinguished in the document from Arabs.\n\nBeginning no later than the early fifth century, Christian writers began to equate Saracens with Arabs. Saracens were associated with Ishmaelites (descendants of Abraham's older son Ishmael) in some strands of Jewish, Christian, and Islamic genealogical thinking. The writings of Jerome (d. 420) are the earliest known version of the claim that Ishmaelites chose to be called Saracens in order to identify with Abraham's \"free\" wife Sarah, rather than as Hagarenes, which would have highlighted their association with Abraham's \"slave woman\" Hagar. This claim was popular during the Middle Ages, but derives more from Paul’s allegory in the New Testament letter to the Galatians than from historical data. The name \"Saracen\" was not indigenous among the populations so described but was applied to them by Greco-Roman historians based on Greek place names.\n\nAs the Middle Ages progressed, usage of the term in the Latin West changed, but its connotation remained negative, associated with opponents of Christianity, and its exact definition is unclear. In an 8th-century polemical work, John of Damascus criticized the Saracens as followers of a false prophet and \"forerunner[s] to the Antichrist.\"\n\nBy the 12th century, Medieval Europeans had more specific conceptions of Islam and used the term \"Saracen\" as an ethnic and religious marker. In some Medieval literature, Saracens—that is, Muslims—were described as black-skinned, while Christians were lighter-skinned. An example is in \"The King of Tars\", a medieval romance. \"The Song of Roland\", an Old French 11th-century heroic poem, refers to the black skin of Saracens as their only exotic feature.\n\nThe 15th-century Mishnah commentator, Rabbi Ovadiah of Bertinora, wrote that the word \"Saracen\" () among Arabs had the connotation of \"thieves\" ().\n\nThe term \"Saracen\" remained in widespread use in the West as a term for \"Muslim\" until the 18th century when the Age of Discovery led to it being gradually obsolete.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7900096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7900096", "title": "Stallburg", "text": "Stallburg\n\nThe Stallburg is a renaissance-style building in the Vienna city center located between Josefsplatz and Michaelerplatz. It is part of the Hofburg Palace.\n\nFormerly the living quarters of Archduke Maximilian , later Emperor Maximilian II, it was built around 1558-1565 as a residence. From 1659 to 1776 it housed the art collection of Archduke Leopold Wilhelm, called the \"Stallburg gallery\". This collection forms the core of the later Kunsthistorisches Museum from 1889. Later the building became the Imperial Stables used to house the imperial horses, and even today it is still used by the Spanish Riding School (Spanische Hofreitschule).\n\nBefore moving to Vienna in 1659, Archduke Leopold Wilhelm formed his art collection of 1400 paintings in Brussels, where David Teniers the Younger painted views of his Brussels gallery, which are now spread among various collections. He made many miniatures of the paintings for use as models by engravers and published a catalog of the Italian paintings in the 1660s called \"Theatrum Pictorium\".\n\nAfter Teniers, Anton Joseph von Prenner was the next to make an illustrated catalog of the paintings there in the 1720s, which included the additions of the Naples collection of Charles VI, Holy Roman Emperor. Charles VI commissioned Ferdinand Storffer to oversee color miniatures as well as engravings for it. The resulting document \"The Newly Arranged Inventory of the Imperial Paintings Gallery in the Stallburg\" appeared in four volumes from 1720 to 1733. Charles VI also commissioned Francesco Solimena to commemorate the re-arrangement of the gallery with a painting.\n\nThe name of the building comes from the horses of the imperial family, who were housed on the ground floor under the reign of Emperor Charles VI. The fountain with wrought iron railings in the middle of the yard was built in 1675. The building was heavily damaged in 1945 just before the end of the Second World War by bombs but was faithfully restored during the years 1947-1948. The passage to the arcades between Hofburg and Stallburg was opened on July 1, 1948.\n\nToday Lipizzaners of the Spanish Riding School are housed there, the associated stud is located in Piber in Styria. From Reitschulgasse one can see the yard. Next to it was the now closed Lipizzan Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "53201398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53201398", "title": "Standard Korean Language Dictionary", "text": "Standard Korean Language Dictionary\n\nStandard Korean Language Dictionary () is a dictionary of the Korean language, published by the National Institute of Korean Language.\n\nThe compilation of Standard Korean Language Dictionary was commenced on 1 January 1992, by The National Academy of the Korean Language, the predecessor of the National Institute of Korean Language. The dictionary's first edition was published in three volumes on 9 October 1999, followed by the compact disc released on 9 October 2001. The online dictionary was launched on 9 October 2002, and revised on 9 October 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "66101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66101", "title": "Tate", "text": "Tate\n\nTate is an institution that houses, in a network of four art museums, the United Kingdom's national collection of British art, and international modern and contemporary art. It is not a government institution, but its main sponsor is the UK Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport.\n\nThe name \"Tate\" is used also as the operating name for the corporate body, which was established by the Museums and Galleries Act 1992 as \"The Board of Trustees of the Tate Gallery\".\n\nThe gallery was founded in 1897, as the National Gallery of British Art. When its role was changed to include the national collection of modern art as well as the national collection of British art, in 1932, it was renamed the Tate Gallery after sugar magnate Henry Tate of Tate & Lyle, who had laid the foundations for the collection. The Tate Gallery was housed in the current building occupied by Tate Britain, which is situated in Millbank, London. In 2000, the Tate Gallery transformed itself into the current-day Tate, which consists of a network of four museums: Tate Britain, which displays the collection of British art from 1500 to the present day; Tate Modern, also in London, which houses the Tate's collection of British and international modern and contemporary art from 1900 to the present day; Tate Liverpool (founded in 1988), which has the same purpose as Tate Modern but on a smaller scale; and Tate St Ives in Cornwall (founded in 1993), which displays modern and contemporary art by artists who have connections with the area. All four museums share the Tate Collection. One of the Tate's most publicised art events is the awarding of the annual Turner Prize, which takes place at Tate Britain.\n\nThe original Tate was called the National Gallery of British Art, situated on Millbank, Pimlico, London at the site of the former Millbank Prison. The idea of a National Gallery of British Art was first proposed in the 1820s by Sir John Leicester, Baron de Tabley. It took a step nearer when Robert Vernon gave his collection to the National Gallery in 1847. A decade later John Sheepshanks gave his collection to the South Kensington Museum (later the Victoria & Albert Museum), known for years as the National Gallery of Art (the same title as the Tate Gallery had). Forty years later Sir Henry Tate who was a sugar magnate and a major collector of Victorian art, offered to fund the building of the gallery to house British Art on the condition that the State pay for the site and revenue costs. Henry Tate also donated his own collection to the gallery. It was initially a collection solely of modern British art, concentrating on the works of modern—that is Victorian era—painters. It was controlled by the National Gallery until 1954.\n\nIn 1915, Sir Hugh Lane bequeathed his collection of European modern art to Dublin, but controversially this went to the Tate, which expanded its collection to include foreign art and continued to acquire contemporary art. In 1926 and 1937, the art dealer and patron Joseph Duveen paid for two major expansions of the gallery building. His father had earlier paid for an extension to house the major part of the Turner Bequest, which in 1987 was transferred to a wing paid for by Sir Charles Clore. Henry Courtauld also endowed Tate with a purchase fund. By the mid 20th century, it was fulfilling a dual function of showing the history of British art as well as international modern art. In 1954, the Tate Gallery was finally separated from the National Gallery.\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s, the visual arts department of the Arts Council of Great Britain funded and organised temporary exhibitions at the Tate Gallery including, in 1966, a retrospective of Marcel Duchamp. Later, the Tate began organising its own temporary exhibition programme. In 1979 with funding from a Japanese bank a large modern extension was opened that would also house larger income generating exhibitions. In 1987, the Clore Wing opened to house the major part of the Turner bequest and also provided a 200-seat auditorium. (The \"Centenary Development,\" in 2001, provided improved access and public amenities)\nIn 1988, an outpost in north west England opened as Tate Liverpool. This shows various works of modern art from the Tate collection as well as mounting its own temporary exhibitions. In 2007, Tate Liverpool hosted the Turner Prize, the first time this has been held outside London. This was an overture to Liverpool's being the European Capital of Culture 2008.\n\nIn 1993, another offshoot opened, Tate St Ives. It exhibits work by modern British artists, particularly those of the St Ives School. Additionally the Tate also manages the Barbara Hepworth Museum and Sculpture Garden, which opened in 1980.\nNeither of these two new Tates had a significant effect on the functioning of the original London Tate Gallery, whose size was increasingly proving a constraint as the collection grew. It was a logical step to separate the \"British\" and \"Modern\" aspects of the collection, and they are now housed in separate buildings in London. The original gallery is now called Tate Britain and is the national gallery for British art from 1500 to the present day, as well as some modern British art. Tate Modern, in Bankside Power Station on the south side of the Thames, opened in 2000 and now exhibits the national collection of modern art from 1900 to the present day, including some modern British art. In its first year, the Tate Modern was the most popular museum in the world, with 5,250,000 visitors.\n\nIn the late 2000s, the Tate announced a new development project to the south of the existing building. According to the museum this new development would \"transform Tate Modern. An iconic new building will be added at the south of the existing gallery. It will create more spaces for displaying the collection, performance and installation art and learning, all allowing visitors to engage more deeply with art, as well as creating more social spaces for visitors to unwind and relax in the gallery.\" Arts philanthropist John Studzinski donated more than £6million to the project. The extension to Tate Modern opened in 2016 as The Switch House and, in 2017, was renamed the Blavatnik Building after Anglo-Ukrainian billionaire Sir Leonard Blavatnik, who contributed a \"substantial\" amount of its £260m cost.\n\nTate Online is the Tate's website. Since its launch in 1998, the site has provided information on all four physical Tate galleries (Tate Britain, Tate St Ives, Tate Liverpool and Tate Modern) under the same domain. Tate Online helps visitors prepare and extend visits to the physical sites but also acts as a destination in its own right. Other resources include illustrated information on all works in Tate's Collection of British and Modern international art, structured and informal e-learning opportunities for all visitors, over 600 hours of archived webcast events, all articles from the magazine \"Tate Etc.,\" and a series of bespoke net art commissions. BT was the primary sponsor of Tate Online from 2001 to 2009.\n\nIn addition to providing information about the galleries and organisation, Tate Online has been used as a platform for Internet art exhibits, termed \"Net Art\", which are organised as part of Tate's \"Intermedia Art\" initiative covering new media art. So far, 13 net art exhibitions have been shown since the initiative started in 2000 including Tate in Space (2002) which was nominated in the Interactive Art category for the 2003 BAFTA Interactive awards.\n\nThe Tate Online Shop sits under the main Tate site and offers a wide range of books, prints and products that reflect and support the primary goal of Tate: to promote the knowledge, understanding and enjoyment of art. Profits from the online shop help to support the work of the galleries.\n\nTate receives annual funding from the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport. It is administered by a board of trustees, who are responsible for the running of the gallery and appoint the Director (for a period of seven years). Under the Charities Act 1993, the Tate is an exempt charity accountable directly to Government rather than the Charity Commission for financial returns etc. However, the Trustees are still expected to follow the broad responsibilities of charity trustees, and may be subject to Charity Commission oversight on these elements of their activities.\n\nVarious bodies have been set up to support the Tate including Tate Members for the general public, where a yearly fee gives rights such as free entry to charging exhibitions and members rooms. There is also Tate Patrons for a higher subscription fee and the Tate Foundation. There are a number of corporate sponsors. In addition individual shows are often sponsored.\n\nTate now spends around £1 million of its general funds each year on purchasing acquisitions and their related costs. The Outset Contemporary Art Fund was established in 2003, by Tate patrons Yana Peel and Candida Gertler. In collaboration with the Frieze Art Fair, the fund buys works from the fair for the Tate's collections. Other funds for acquisitions are raised by Tate funding groups such as the Members, the Patrons and the American Patrons of Tate and its sub-committees, the North American Acquisitions Committee and Latin American Acquisitions Committee. The American Patrons were renamed in 2013 to reflect their expanding geographical base of support; since 1999, this support group alone has raised more than $100 million.\n\nIn 2010, a photography acquisitions committee was launched. In 2012, the Tate established a South Asian acquisitions committee to collect contemporary and modern art from India and surrounding countries, as well as a committee for works from Russia, Eastern Europe and the CIS (Commonwealth of Independent States).\n\n\nThe Tate logo was designed by international brand consultancy Wolff Olins in 2000 as part of a larger rebranding effort focused around the idea \"look again, think again.\" The museum uses a range of logos that move in and out of focus, \"suggesting the dynamic nature of Tate – always changing but always recognizable\" Variations include a standard logo, a blurred version, a faded version and a halftone version consisting of dots rather than smooth fading. An update on the brand, designed by North, was released in 2016.\n\nThe head of the Tate (formally the National Gallery of British Art and the Tate Gallery) is currently titled the Director. Until 1917, they were styled the Keeper.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "69088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69088", "title": "The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle and Friends", "text": "The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle and Friends\n\nThe Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle and Friends is the blanket title for an American animated television series that originally aired from November 19, 1959, to June 27, 1964, on the ABC and NBC television networks. The current blanket title was imposed for home video releases over 40 years after the series originally aired and was never used when the show was televised; television airings of the show were broadcast under the titles of Rocky and His Friends from 1959 to 1961, The Bullwinkle Show from 1961 to 1964, and The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show (or The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle or The Adventures of Bullwinkle and Rocky) in syndication. Produced by Jay Ward Productions, the series is structured as a variety show, with the main feature being the serialized adventures of the two title characters, the anthropomorphic flying squirrel Rocky and moose Bullwinkle. The main adversaries in most of their adventures are the two Russian-like spies Boris Badenov and Natasha Fatale, both working for the dictator Fearless Leader. Supporting segments include Dudley Do-Right of the Mounties (a parody of old-time melodrama), Peabody's Improbable History (a dog named Mr. Peabody and his boy Sherman traveling through time), and Fractured Fairy Tales (classic fairy tales retold in comic fashion), among others.\n\n\"Rocky and Bullwinkle\" is known for quality writing and wry humor. Mixing puns, cultural and topical satire, and self-referential humor, it appealed to adults as well as children. It was also one of the first cartoons whose animation was outsourced; storyboards were shipped to Gamma Productions, a Mexican studio also employed by Total Television. The art has a choppy, unpolished look and the animation is extremely limited even by television animation standards at the time, yet the series has long been held in high esteem by those who have seen it; some critics described the series as a well-written radio program with pictures.\n\nThe show was shuffled around several times (airing in afternoon, prime time, and Saturday morning timeslots), but was influential to other animated series from \"The Simpsons\" to \"Rocko's Modern Life\". Segments from the series were later recycled in the \"Hoppity Hooper\" show.\n\nThere have been numerous feature film adaptations of the series' various segments, such as the 2000 film \"The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle\", which blended live-action and computer animation; and the 1999 live-action film \"Dudley Do-Right\". Both films received poor reviews and were financially unsuccessful. By contrast, an animated feature film adaptation of the \"Peabody's Improbable History\" segment, \"Mr. Peabody & Sherman\", was released to positive reviews in 2014. A rebooted animated series also based on \"Peabody's Improbable History\", \"The Mr. Peabody & Sherman Show\", debuted on Netflix in October 2015.\n\nAnother reboot animated series based on the main segment, \"The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle\" premiered on Amazon Video on May 11, 2018.\n\nIn 2013, \"Rocky and His Friends\" and \"The Bullwinkle Show\" were ranked the sixth Greatest TV Cartoon of All Time by \"TV Guide\".\n\nThe idea for the series came from Jay Ward and Alex Anderson, who previously collaborated on \"Crusader Rabbit\", based upon the original property \"The Frostbite Falls Revue\". This original show never got beyond the proposal stage. It featured a group of forest animals running a television station. The group included Rocket J. Squirrel (Rocky), Oski Bear, Canadian Moose (Bullwinkle), Sylvester Fox, Blackstone Crow, and Floral Fauna. The show in this form was created by Alex Anderson. Bullwinkle's name came from the name of a car dealership in Berkeley, California, called Bullwinkel Motors. Anderson changed the spelling of the last two letters of the name and gave it to his moose.\n\nWard wanted to produce the show in Los Angeles; however, Anderson lived in the San Francisco Bay Area and did not want to relocate. As a result, Ward hired Bill Scott as head writer and co-producer at Jay Ward Productions, and he wrote the \"Rocky and Bullwinkle\" features. Ward was joined by writers Chris Hayward and Allan Burns; the latter eventually became head writer for MTM Enterprises. In a 1982 interview, Scott said, \"I got a call from Jay asking if I'd be interested in writing another series, an adventure script with a moose and a squirrel. I said, 'Sure.' I didn't know if I could write an adventure with a moose and a squirrel, but I never turned down a job.\"\n\nThe series began with the pilot, \"Rocky the Flying Squirrel\". Production began in February 1958 with the hiring of voice actors June Foray, Paul Frees, Bill Scott, and William Conrad. Eight months later, General Mills signed a deal to sponsor the cartoon program, under the condition that the show be run in a late-afternoon time slot, when it could be targeted toward children. Subsequently, Ward hired the rest of the production staff, including writers and designers. However, no animators were hired. Ad executives at Dancer, Fitzgerald, & Sample, the advertising agency for General Mills, set up an animation studio in Mexico called Gamma Productions S.A. de C.V., originally known as Val-Mar Animation. This outsourcing of the animation for the series was considered financially attractive by primary sponsor General Mills, but caused endless production problems. In a 1982 interview by animation historian Jim Korkis, Bill Scott described some of the problems that arose during production of the series:\n\nWe found out very quickly that we could not depend on Mexican studios to produce anything of quality. They were turning out the work very quickly and there were all kinds of mistakes and flaws and boo-boos ... They would never check ... Mustaches popped on and off Boris, Bullwinkle's antlers would change, colors would change, costumes would disappear ... By the time we finally saw it, it was on the air.\n\nThe show was broadcast for the first time on November 19, 1959, on the ABC television network under the title \"Rocky and His Friends\" twice a week, on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons, following \"American Bandstand\" at 5:30 p.m. ET, where it was the highest-rated daytime network program. The show moved to the NBC network starting September 24, 1961, broadcast in color, and first appeared on Sundays at 7 p.m. ET, just before \"Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color\". \"Bullwinkle\"'s ratings suffered as a result of airing opposite perennial favorite \"Lassie\". A potential move to CBS caused NBC to reschedule the show to late Sunday afternoons (5:30 p.m. ET) and early Saturday afternoons in its final season. NBC canceled the show in the summer of 1964. It was shopped to ABC, but they were not interested. However, reruns of episodes were aired on ABC's Sunday morning schedule at 11 a.m. ET until 1973, at which time the series went into syndication. An abbreviated fifteen-minute version of the series ran in syndication in the 1960s under the title \"The Rocky Show\". This version was sometimes shown in conjunction with \"The King and Odie\", a fifteen-minute version of Total Television's \"King Leonardo and His Short Subjects\". \"The King and Odie\" was similar to \"Rocky and Bullwinkle\" in that it was sponsored by General Mills and animated by Gamma Productions. NBC later aired \"Bullwinkle Show\" reruns at 12:30 p.m. ET Saturday afternoons during the 1981–1982 television season.\n\nOn cable, the series had extended runs on Nickelodeon (1990–1994), Cartoon Network (1993–2002) and Boomerang (early 2000s). Since the late 2000s, The Program Exchange has typically only licensed the series for short-term runs; nationally, the series has seen limited airings on WGN America (2009), VH1 Classic (2012) and Boomerang (2013).\n\n\"The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show\" remained in syndicated reruns and was still available for local television stations through The Program Exchange as late as 2016; WBBZ-TV, for instance, aired the show in a strip to counterprogram 10 PM newscasts in the Buffalo, New York market during the summer 2013 season. The underlying rights are now owned by Universal Pictures, which holds the library of predecessor companies DreamWorks Animation and Classic Media, and who in turn with copyright holder Ward Productions forms the joint venture Bullwinkle Studios, which manages the Rocky and Bullwinkle properties; Universal's purchase of Classic Media coincided with The Program Exchange's shutdown.\n\nSponsor General Mills retained all United States television rights to the series. Two packages, each containing different episodes, are available. The syndicated version of \"The Bullwinkle Show\" contains 98 half-hour shows (#801–898). The first 78 comprise the Rocky & Bullwinkle story lines from the first two seasons of the original series (these segments originally aired under the \"Rocky and His Friends\" title). Other elements in the half-hour shows (\"Fractured Fairy Tales, Peabody's Improbable History, Dudley Do-Right of the Mounties, Aesop and Son\", and short cartoons including \"Bullwinkle's Corner\" and \"Mr. Know-It-All\") sometimes appear out of the original broadcast sequence. The final 20 syndicated \"Bullwinkle Show\" episodes feature later \"Rocky & Bullwinkle\" story lines (from \"Bumbling Bros. Circus\" through the end of the series, minus \"Moosylvania\") along with \"Fractured Fairy Tales, Bullwinkle's Corner\", and \"Mr. Know-It-All\" segments repeated from earlier in the syndicated episode cycle. Originally, many syndicated shows included segments of Total Television's \"The World of Commander McBragg\", but these cartoons were replaced with other segments when the shows were remastered in the early 1990s. A package, promoted under the \"Rocky and His Friends\" name but utilizing \"The Rocky Show\" titles, features story lines not included in the syndicated \"Bullwinkle Show\" series.\n\nThe most recently syndicated \"Rocky and His Friends\" package retains the 15-minute format, consisting of 156 individual episodes, but like \"The Bullwinkle Show\", the content differs from the versions syndicated in the 1960s. The various supporting segments, including \"Fractured Fairy Tales\" (91), \"Peabody's Improbable History\" (91), and \"Aesop and Son\" (39) segments are syndicated as part of \"Tennessee Tuxedo and His Tales\", and 38 of the 39 \"Dudley Do-Right\" cartoons are syndicated as part of \"Dudley Do Right \"(sic)\" and Friends\". Syndicated versions of the shows distributed outside of the United States and Canada combine the various segments under the package title \"Rocky and Bullwinkle and Friends\"; it is this version of the show that is represented on official DVD releases through DreamWorks Classics and the official online version sold at websites such as Amazon Video.\n\nThe lead characters and heroes of the series were Rocket \"Rocky\" J. Squirrel, a flying squirrel, and his best friend Bullwinkle J. Moose, a dim-witted but good-natured moose. Both characters lived in the fictional town of Frostbite Falls, Minnesota, which was purportedly based on the real city of International Falls, Minnesota. The scheming villains in most episodes were the fiendish spies Boris Badenov, a pun on Boris Godunov, and Natasha Fatale, a pun on femme fatale, forever attempting to \"catch Moose and Squirrel\". Other characters included Fearless Leader, the dictator of the fictitious nation of Pottsylvania and Boris and Natasha's superior, Gidney & Cloyd, little green men from the moon who were armed with scrooch guns; Captain Peter \"Wrongway\" Peachfuzz, the captain of the S.S. \"Andalusia\"; various U.S. government bureaucrats and politicians (such as Senator Fussmussen, a recurring character who opposed admitting Alaska and Hawaii to the Union on the grounds of his own xenophobia); and the inevitable onlookers, Edgar and Chauncy.\n\nWhen first shown on NBC, the cartoons were introduced by a Bullwinkle puppet, voiced by Bill Scott, who would often lampoon celebrities, current events, and especially Walt Disney, whose program \"Wonderful World of Color\" was next on the schedule. Compared with the dim-witted and lovable moose that most fans of the series would grow up with, in this short-lived version Bullwinkle was portrayed as a sarcastic smart-aleck. On one occasion, \"Bullwinkle\" encouraged children to pull the tuning knobs off the TV set. \"In that way,\" explained Bullwinkle, \"we'll be sure to be with you next week!\" The network received complaints from parents of an estimated 20,000 child viewers who apparently followed Bullwinkle's suggestion. Bullwinkle told the children the following week to put the knobs back on with glue \"and make it stick!\" The puppet sequence was dropped altogether. Scott later re-used the puppet for a segment called \"Dear Bullwinkle,\" where letters written for the show were read and answered humorously. Four episodes of \"Dear Bullwinkle\" are on the Season 1 DVD.\n\nEach episode is composed of two \"Rocky & Bullwinkle\" cliffhanger shorts that stylistically emulated early radio and film serials. The plots of these shorts would combine into story arcs spanning numerous episodes. The first and longest story arc was \"Jet Fuel Formula\" consisting of 40 shorts (20 episodes). Stories ranged from seeking the missing ingredient for a rocket fuel formula, to tracking the monstrous whale \"Maybe Dick\", to an attempt to prevent mechanical, metal-munching, moon mice from devouring the nation's television antennas. Rocky and Bullwinkle frequently encounter the two Pottsylvanian nogoodniks, Boris Badenov and Natasha Fatale.\n\nAt the end of most episodes, the narrator, William Conrad, would announce two humorous titles for the next episode that typically were puns of each other (and usually related more to the current predicament than to the plot of the next episode). For example, during an adventure taking place in a mountain range, the narrator would state, \"Be with us next time for 'Avalanche Is Better Than None,' or 'Snow's Your Old Man.'\" Such a 'This,' or 'That' title announcement was borrowed from \"The Adventures of Sam Spade\" radio shows produced in 1946–1950. The narrator frequently spoke with the characters, thus breaking the fourth wall.\n\nEpisodes were introduced with one of four opening sequences:\n\nEpisodes ended with a bumper sequence in which a violent lightning storm destroys the landscape, appearing to engulf Rocky and Bullwinkle in the destruction and accompanied by dramatic piano music. The music would become more lighthearted, and the ground would scroll upward while the outlines of the heroes gradually appeared. We then see a smiling sun overlooking a barren field which rapidly fills with sunflowers until Rocky and Bullwinkle finally sprout from the ground.\n\nThe \"Rocky & Bullwinkle\" shorts serve as \"bookends\" for popular supporting features, including:\n\nThe following table summarizes which characters were voiced by which actor, as documented in the \"Frostbite Falls Field Guide\" and June Foray interview in the Complete Series boxed set, as well as Rocky and Bullwinkle sub-articles here on Wikipedia.\n\n\nThere were attempts to revive \"Rocky & Bullwinkle\" throughout the 1970s. A revival in 1981 parodied the Super Bowl. A script was written, storyboards were produced, the network gave it a green light, but the project was canceled because of objections from the NFL. (Actual team owners were parodied and Boris was fixing the game.)\n\nAnother revival attempt took place at Disney in the mid 1980s, back when they were distributing the show on VHS. Developed by Tad Stone and Michael Peraza, the revival was named \"The Secret Adventures of Bullwinkle\" and would have been a modern take on the old Bullwinkle show, with the return of characters like Mr. Peabody and Sherman and Dudley Do-Right and would have featured new segments like \"Fractured Scary Tales\", a parody of horror films, and a new \"Mr Know It All\" skit that, among other things, had Bullwinkle programming a VCR. Before the two presented their pitch, they soon found out Disney did not have the rights to the actual series, only to the video distribution of the old Bullwinkle show, and the concept was abandoned.\n\nThe program debuted on home video with two compilation CED Videodiscs released by RCA during the format's rise in the early 1980s, featuring complete, uncut story arcs and accompanying alternating segments and bumpers. Volume 1 contained the complete story for \"Wossamotta U\", while volume 2 contained \"Goof Gas Attack\" and \"The Three Mooseketeers\".\n\nBuena Vista Home Video released the show on VHS, Betamax and LaserDisc in the early 1990s, under the title \"The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle\". These are presented differently from when broadcast. Two \"Rocky and Bullwinkle\" chapters were sometimes edited together into one (removing the \"titles\" for the next chapters as well as part of the recap at the beginning of the next), usually showing the storyline in four or five chapters per video. For example, the 12-episode Wossamotta U. adventure is reduced to seven episodes, and runs about seven minutes shorter. The \"Bullwinkle Show\" closing was used on these.\n\nThe first eight videos were released under the \"Classic Stuff\" banner, with covers and titles being parodies of famous paintings or painters. Four more videos were released under the \"Funny Stuff\" banner, but unlike the first eight, these were not numbered, the video titles matched the title of the featured \"Rocky and Bullwinkle\" storyline, and the covers represented scenes from shows (such as Bullwinkle pulling a rhino out of a hat as the cover for \"Painting Theft\"). (The change in the banner might have been due to a video magazine publishing a letter criticizing the editing.) \"The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle Season 1\" is available in Cracker Barrel for VHS.\n\nYears after the Buena Vista releases ended, another series of \"Rocky and Bullwinkle\" VHS tapes were released, both separately and as a boxed set. These videos included \"Upsidaisium\", \"The Last Angry Moose\", \"Metal-Munching Mice\", \"Much Mud\", and \"Rue Britannia\". However, these were released through Goodtimes Video and were not authorized by Ward Productions. The copies used were from 16 mm \"Bullwinkle Show\" prints. Some other companies also released unauthorized editions of \"Rocky and Bullwinkle\", including Nostalgia Family Video which also released all 98 of \"The Bullwinkle Show\" package shows via 16 mm \"Bullwinkle Show\" prints and Bridgestone Multimedia released eight episodes as \"Rocky and his Friends\" using an old broadcast 16 mm print.\n\nThe copyright status of these 98 episodes (along with some episodes of \"Hoppity Hooper\") is disputed. As of 2017, the copyright is generally recognized as valid, and attempts to post the gray market releases on video sites have historically been greeted with DMCA takedown notices.\n\nIn 2002, Jay Ward Productions established a partnership with Classic Media called Bullwinkle Studios. From 2003 to 2005, the partnership produced DVDs of the first three seasons of the series, which were renamed (for legal reasons) \"Rocky & Bullwinkle & Friends\". Releases then stalled until 2010, when season 4 was released, in part to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the series. The complete series was released on January 4, 2011, marking the debut of season 5 on DVD. A standalone release of season 5 was released on March 29, 2011. The DVDs for the first 3 seasons were distributed by Sony Wonder, while season 4, 5 and Complete Series sets are currently distributed by Vivendi Entertainment.\n\nThe DVD releases differ somewhat from the originals. The original opening bumpers as seen on the network run were restored, but the title of the show was replaced with the name \"The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle and Friends\" (never used during the show's television run) and a modern logo with styling inconsistent with the rest of the animation (pictured) somewhat clumsily inserted into the original bumpers. A William Conrad sound-alike was used to announce the new title, which some viewers found jarring. In addition, a semi-transparent \"R&B\" logo appears for five seconds at the beginning of each segment in the lower right-hand corner. Some segments were moved from their position in the original episodes. Also, the season 5 shows on DVD recycle supporting features found on the DVDs for the first four seasons. Mathematically, this makes sense since the total number of supporting features (assuming two used per show) exactly equals the number of shows created during the first four seasons. The first set, most of the second set, and the fifth season set use the second opening and closing used for the \"Rocky and His Friends\" broadcast, while the last two story arcs in the second set, as well as the third and fourth season sets, use the original opening and closing from the \"Rocky and His Friends\" broadcast. Frank Comstock's musical themes are replaced on the sets with Fred Steiner's music produced for \"The Bullwinkle Show\". In addition, the first four season sets include optional Spanish-language audio tracks.\n\nIn 2005, Classic Media released a series of \"best of\" DVD compilations of popular segments of the series: two volumes of \"The Best of Rocky and Bullwinkle\", plus the single-volume \"The Best of Boris and Natasha\", \"The Best of Mr. Peabody and Sherman\", \"The Best of Fractured Fairy Tales\", and \"The Best of Dudley Do-Right\". These compilations contain episodes from the entire run of the show.\n\nOn October 30, 2012, Classic Media released a DVD called \"The Complete Fractured Fairy Tales\" which includes all 91 \"Fractured Fairy Tales\" segments.\n\nDuring the time the show was available on Hulu (it was offered as a free series before it went to a subscription-only model), the DVD version of the episodes were used instead of the syndication prints.\n\nOn April 12, 2018, it was announced that a reboot of the series from DreamWorks Animation would premiere on Amazon Prime Video on May 11, 2018. The series will be executive produced by Scott Fellows and Tiffany Ward (the daughter of Jay). The cast will include Tara Strong as Rocky, Brad Norman as Bullwinkle, Ben Diskin as Boris, Rachel Butera as Natasha, Piotr Michael as Fearless Leader, and Daran Norris as the Narrator.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLouis Chunovic. \"The Rocky and Bullwinkle Book\". Bantam, 1996. \n\n"}
{"id": "8201400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8201400", "title": "The Hero's Journey (film)", "text": "The Hero's Journey (film)\n\nThe Hero's Journey is a 1987 biography of mythologist Joseph Campbell (1904–1987), directed by Janelle Balnicke and David Kennard. In the years just before his death, Campbell was filmed in conversation with his friends and colleagues, discussing his own life and career in terms of the myths that he studied throughout his life.\n\nThe conversations in the film led to the book, \"The Hero's Journey: Joseph Campbell on His Life and Work\" (1990).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "261786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261786", "title": "The Highway Code", "text": "The Highway Code\n\nThe Highway Code is a set of information, advice, guides and mandatory rules for all road users in the United Kingdom. Its objective is to promote road safety. The Highway Code applies to drivers of animals, pedestrians, cyclists, motorcyclists and drivers. The 2004 version, for example, contained 307 numbered rules and 9 annexes. The Highway Code gives information on road signs, road markings, vehicle markings, and road safety. The annexes include information on vehicle maintenance, licence requirements, documentation, penalties, and vehicle security.\n\nAny failure to comply with the Code is not an offence in itself, but can be taken into account by a court. The mandatory rules reflect the Statute Law, which may (and usually does) provide a separate penalty.\n\nThe highway code was first published in 1931 as a booklet and has been regularly updated to reflect current practices. It is prepared by the Department for Transport and the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency, and is published by The Stationery Office in electronic form and as a printed book. Most copies are bought by learner drivers preparing for their driving test. In 2004, for example, over one million copies of the Highway Code were sold. \n\nThe Great Britain version, available in English and Welsh, applies to England, Scotland and Wales, but regional specific signs such as driver location signs in England or bilingual signs in Scotland and Wales are not covered. The Northern Ireland version, available in English and Irish, applies to Northern Ireland.\n\nCosting one penny, the first edition of the Highway Code was published on 14 April 1931. It contained just 18 pages of advice, including the arm signals to be given by drivers and police officers controlling traffic. The second edition, considerably expanded, appeared in 1934, and now illustrated road signs for the first time. During its preparation the Ministry of Transport consulted with the Pedestrians Association.\nFurther major revisions followed after the Second World War so that, for example, references to trams were still included in the 1954 version but disappeared after that (tramway rules returned to the Code in 1994, after the first modern tram systems in Britain had opened). Motorway driving was included in the fifth edition. The sixth edition, in 1968, used photographs as well as drawings for the first time, and also updated the illustrations of road signs to take the new 'continental' designs into account. The 70-page 1978 edition introduced the Green Cross Code for pedestrians and orange badges for less able drivers. The format was changed to a 'taller' size in the 1990s, and the Code caught up with developments in social media in 2011, when it joined Twitter and Facebook. A Highway Code app followed in 2012.\n\nCertain rules in the Highway Code are legal requirements and are identified by the words ‘must’ or ‘must not’. In these cases, the rules also include references to the corresponding legislation. Offenders may be cautioned, given licence penalty points, fined, banned from driving, or imprisoned, depending on the severity of the offence. Although failure to comply with the other rules would not, in itself, cause a person to be prosecuted, the Highway Code may be used in court under the Road Traffic Act to establish liability. These include advisory rules with wording ‘should’ and ‘should not’ or ‘do’ and ‘do not’. In general, only the latest official printed version of the Highway Code should be used but in legal proceedings, whether civil or criminal, the version current at the time of the incident would apply. \n\nThe Road Traffic Act 1988 states:\n\nA failure on the part of a person to observe a provision of \"The Highway Code\" shall not of itself render that person liable to criminal proceedings of any kind but any such failure may in any proceedings (whether civil or criminal, and including proceedings for an offence under the Traffic Acts, the [1981 c. 14.] Public Passenger Vehicles Act 1981 or sections 18 to 23 of the [1985 c. 67.] Transport Act 1985) be relied upon by any party to the proceedings as tending to establish or negative any liability which is in question in those proceedings.\n\nThe Highway Code is available in the following forms:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8379322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8379322", "title": "The Twelve Huntsmen", "text": "The Twelve Huntsmen\n\n\"The Twelve Huntsmen\" is a German fairy tale collected by the Brothers Grimm as tale number 67 in their \"Grimm's Fairy Tales\". Andrew Lang included it in \"The Green Fairy Book\".\n\nIt is Aarne-Thompson type 884, the forsaken fiancée. Other tales which include this type as part of their plot are \"The True Bride\", \"The Two Kings' Children\", and \"Sweetheart Roland\".\n\nOnce there was a prince who was betrothed to a beautiful maiden whom he loved. One day, the prince was summoned to his father's deathbed and was so grief-stricken that he promised he would marry the neighboring princess whom his father wished he would marry. After his father died and the prince became king, he felt bound by his promise to marry the other princess. His fiancee heard of the new king's promise and asked her father for eleven maidens who looked exactly like her. Each maiden dressed as huntsmen went to the king's court.\n\nAt court, the king had a lion who knew everything. It told him that the huntsmen were women, and to test them, the king should put peas on the floor: a man's firm step would crush them, while a woman's would make them roll. The maiden heard this and warned her companions to step firmly. And so, when the huntsmen stepped on the peas, they were crushed. The lion then said the king should put spinning wheels in the room, betraying the maidens' interest. Once again, the maiden learned of the lion's plan and warned her companions. The lion soon fell from favor as the king believed he did not know everything, as once thought. \n\nWhen the king's new bride entered court, the maiden fainted. Fearing that a faithful servant had fallen ill, the king came to her aid and found she had the ring he had given her. He dismissed the new bride and married the maiden, and restored the lion to favor as it had seen the truth.\n\n"}
{"id": "23776348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23776348", "title": "Transgender Archive", "text": "Transgender Archive\n\nThe Transgender Archive began as the personal collection of Cristan Williams, and was donated to the Transgender Foundation of America in 2008 where the collection has continued to grow. The archive has grown to encompass museum quality artifacts and ephemera, recording hundreds of years of transgender history throughout the world. The Transgender History Archive is housed in the TG Center in Houston and is the only known Transgender History Archive that is open to the public.\n\n"}
{"id": "36390145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36390145", "title": "Uberon", "text": "Uberon\n\nUberon is a comparative anatomy ontology representing a variety of structures found in animals, such as lungs, muscles, bones, feathers and fins. These structures are connected to other structures via relationships such as part-of and develops-from. One of the uses of this ontology is to integrate data from different biological databases, and other species-specific ontologies such as the Foundational Model of Anatomy.\n\n"}
{"id": "29261126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29261126", "title": "Valerie Henitiuk", "text": "Valerie Henitiuk\n\nValerie Henitiuk (born 1963 in Manning, Alberta) is an award-winning scholar researching aspects of the intersection of translation studies, world literature, Inuit literature, Japanese literature, and women's writing. She is a Canadian citizen, currently Vice-President Academic & Provost at Concordia University of Edmonton. Henitiuk has been a visiting scholar at both Harvard and Columbia Universities in the USA and at Kokugakuin University in Japan. She was previously Executive Director of the Centre for the Advancement of Faculty Excellence and Professor of English at Grant MacEwan University in Edmonton, Alberta, on the faculty of the University of East Anglia (UK) and Director of the British Centre for Literary Translation (BCLT).\n\nHenitiuk was born in Manning, Alberta in 1963, and grew up in various locations in western and northern Canada. An interest in acting led her to participate in a number of drama workshops while in her teens. Following extensive travels in USA and Central America she completed a BA (French + Latin, 1985) and MA (French Translation, 1988), was then employed by the Alberta Government Translation Bureau, and operated a freelance translation business. Ms. Henitiuk subsequently returned to the University of Alberta, obtaining an MA in Japanese Literature in 2000 and a PhD in Comparative Literature in 2005.\n\nHenitiuk has a PhD (Comparative Literature) from the University of Alberta. She also holds a Diplôme d'études linguistiques françaises, . Her PhD was supported by Killam Prize and Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council\n(SSHRC) fellowships, the Dorothy J. Killam Memorial Graduate Prize, as well as an award allowing her to spend a year at Kokugakuin University in Japan conducting research (2002–03). Upon the completion of the PhD in 2005 Henitiuk was awarded the prestigious Governor General's Gold Medal as the foremost graduate at the University (all faculties).\n\nIn September 2005, Henitiuk began a two-year post-doctoral fellowship at The Center (now Institute) for Comparative Literature and Society directed by Gayatri Spivak. Her sponsor was David Damrosch. This research project investigated the process by which national literature becomes world literature. Her fellowship was funded by SSHRC and she was awarded the inaugural SSHRC Postdoctoral Prize.\n\nIn June 2017 Henitiuk was appointed as Vice-President Academic & Provost at Concordia University of Edmonton, Alberta. From April 2013 to June 2017 Henitiuk was a Professor of English and Executive Director of the Centre for the Advancement of Faculty Excellence (formerly Faculty Commons) at Grant MacEwan University. From March 2007 to March 2013 she was Senior Lecturer in Literature and Translation at the University of East Anglia (UEA) in Norwich, UK and (from August 2011) Director of the BCLT at UEA. Henitiuk previously held posts as acting Director and Associate Director of the BCLT. From August 2010 to August 2011 she was a visiting scholar at Harvard University funded by a fellowship from the Leverhulme Trust. She specializes in the study of: World Literature, Comparative Literature, Translation Studies, East-West Cultural Exchange, and Women’s Writing.\n\nFrom 2012 to 2017 Valerie Henitiuk was editor of the Routledge journal \"Translation Studies\". From 2007-11, she was editor of \"In Other Words: the journal for literary translators\" and served on the editorial board from 2009-2011 for the transdisciplinary journal titled \"translation\". She was also, from 2008–12, on the faculty for the Nida School of Translation Studies, a research symposium held annually in Italy.\n\nHenitiuk currently holds an Insight Development Grant from SSHRC for a research project looking at English and French translations of Inuit Literature.\n\nHenitiuk has published scholarly articles on a variety of subjects including the translation of Inuit literature, women's writing, the introduction of classical Japanese literature into the west, and comparisons between eastern and western texts. Her first major, and most frequently cited, article is \"Translating Woman\", an analysis of gender translation issues which she has continued to explore during her research. She has also discussed feminist aspects of literature in the context of magic realism. Recent scholarship has concentrated on examinations of the way translations of 10th-century Japanese women’s writing has entered the western consciousness and the political/cultural dimensions of translation of such works\n\nHenitiuk has authored a monograph on liminal imagery in a cross-cultural selection of women’s writing and another book, designed to assist in the teaching of translation, looks at some fifty different translations from Japanese of a single passage from \"The Pillow Book\". She has also co-edited two collections of stories by women from India, and a collection of critical essays on W. G. Sebald.\n\nBook chapters have analyzed boundary metaphors in Elizabeth Inchbald and rape as a motif in literature. Other chapters discuss gender aspects in \"The Tale of Genji\", \"The Kagerô Nikki\" and \"The Pillow Book of Sei Shônagon\".\n\nBesides her academic work, Henitiuk has been deeply involved in the promotion of literary translation as a professional discipline through a variety of organizations, serving on national and international committees. As well she has been quoted regarding funding cuts to the arts in the UK and Canada, and has made pedagogical contributions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2033704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2033704", "title": "Vrykolakas", "text": "Vrykolakas\n\nThe vrykolakas (Greek βρυκόλακας, pronounced ), also called vorvolakas or vourdoulakas, is a harmful undead creature in Greek folklore. It has similarities to many different legendary creatures, but is generally equated with the vampire of the folklore of the neighbouring Slavic countries. While the two are very similar, blood-drinking is only marginally associated with the \"vrykolakas\".\n\nThe word \"vrykolakas\" is derived from the Slavic word \"vǎrkolak\". The term is attested in other South Slavic languages such as Serbian \"\", ultimately derived from Proto-Slavic \"vьlkolakъ\", see Polish \"wilkołak\", and cognates can be found in other languages such as Lithuanian \"\" and Romanian \"\". The term is a compound word derived from вълк (\"vâlk\")/вук (\"vuk\"), meaning \"wolf\" and \"dlaka\", meaning \"(strand of) hair\" (i.e. having the hair, or fur, of a wolf), and originally meant \"werewolf\" (it still has that meaning in the modern Slavic languages, and a similar one in Romanian: see \"\"). It is also noteworthy that in the eighteenth century story \"Vrykolokas\" by Pitton de Tournefort, he refers to the revenant as a \"werewolf\" (loups-garous) which may have also been translated as \"bug-bears\", a strange word that has nothing to do with bugs nor bears, but is related to the word \"bogey\", which means spook, spirit, hobgoblin, etc. However, the same word (in the form \"vukodlak\") has come to be used in the sense of \"vampire\" in the folklore of Western Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Montenegro (while the term \"vampir\" is more common in Eastern Serbia, and in Bulgaria). Apparently, the two concepts have become mixed. Even in Bulgaria, original folklore generally describes the \"vârkolak\" as a sub-species of the vampire without any wolf-like features.\n\nThe Greeks traditionally believed that a person could become a \"vrykolakas\" after death due to a sacrilegious way of life, an excommunication, a burial in unconsecrated ground, or eating the meat of a sheep which had been wounded by a wolf or a werewolf. Some believed that a werewolf itself could become a powerful vampire after being killed, and would retain the wolf-like fangs, hairy palms, and glowing eyes it formerly possessed.\n\nThe bodies of \"vrykolakas\" have the same distinctive characteristics as the bodies of vampires in Balkan folklore. They do not decay; instead, they swell and may even attain a \"drum-like\" form, being very large, they have a ruddy complexion, and are, according to one account, \"fresh and gorged with new blood\". People with red hair and gray eyes at this time in history were thought to be vampires according to accounts near the region of modern Serbia. The activities of the \"vrykolakas\" are nearly always harmful, verging from merely leaving their grave and \"roaming about\", through engaging in poltergeist-like activity, and up to causing epidemics in the community. Among other things, the creature is believed to knock on the doors of houses and call out the name of the residents. If it gets no reply the first time, it will pass without causing any harm. If someone does answer the door, he or she will die a few days later and become another \"vrykolakas\". For this reason, there is a superstition present in certain Greek villages that one should not answer a door until the second knock. Legends also say that the \"vrykolakas\" crushes or suffocates the sleeping by sitting on them, much like a mara or incubus (cf. sleep paralysis) — as does a vampire in Bulgarian folklore.\n\nSince the \"vrykolakas\" becomes more and more powerful if left alone, legends state that one should destroy its body. According to some accounts, this can only be done on Saturday, which is the only day when the vrykolakas rests in its grave (the same as with Bulgarian vampire legend) This may be done in various ways, the most common being exorcising, impaling, beheading, cutting into pieces, and especially cremating the suspected corpse, so that it may be freed from living death and its victims may be safe.\n\nAncient Greeks believed that the dead are able to reanimate and exist in a state that is neither living nor dead, but rather ‘undead.’ Burials of suspected revenants have been discovered throughout the ancient Greek world. The earliest examples are from Cyprus and date to the Neolithic period (ca. 4500–3900/3800 BCE). At Khirokitia, flexed bodies buried in pit graves were pinned by millstones that were placed on either their heads or chests in order to trap the body in its grave. Similar burials were found at Argolid. In the necropolis of the city of Kamarina, two burials were found which were different from the rest: the first contains an adult of indeterminate sex and stature. The head and feet of the individual are completely covered by large amphora fragments. The heavy amphora fragments found were presumably intended to pin the individual to the grave and prevent it from seeing or rising. The second burial contains a child approximately 8 to 13 years old, also of indeterminate sex and stature. Five large stones were placed on top of the child’s body. These stones were used to trap the body in its grave.\n\nOn Attica, found a limekiln served as a gravesite for two dismembered individuals. The first body belonged to a woman who was cut in half, with both halves placed parallel to one another in the prone position. Buried with her was a small jar containing a single coin from the reign of Emperor Constantine and a portion of the dismembered left leg of an adult male. After deposition, the skeletons were deliberately sealed in the limekiln by large rocks.\n\nAt Lesbos, a Turkish cemetery from the Ottoman period contained an isolated tomb of an adult who was pinned at the neck, pelvis and both feet with 20 cm nails. On another burial from the same island dating to the same period contained a man over the age of 60. He was found in a cist grave and had three bent 16 cm spikes mixed in with his bones.\n\nApotropaics are objects or practices that were intended to prevent a recently deceased loved one from turning into an undead revenant, or to occupy a revenant sufficiently enough that he will not harm the living. Burying a corpse upside-down was widespread, as was placing earthly objects, such as scythes or sickles, near the grave to satisfy any demons entering the body or to appease the dead so that it would not wish to arise from its coffin. This method resembles the Ancient Greek practice of placing an obolus in the corpse's mouth to pay the toll to cross the River Styx in the underworld; it has been argued that instead, the coin was intended to ward off any evil spirits from entering the body, and this may have influenced later vampire folklore. This tradition persisted in modern Greek folklore about the \"vrykolakas\", in which a wax cross and piece of pottery with the inscription \"Jesus Christ conquers\" were placed on the corpse to prevent the body from becoming a vampire. Other methods commonly practised in Europe included severing the tendons at the knees or placing poppy seeds, millet, or sand on the ground at the grave site of a presumed vampire; this was intended to keep the vampire occupied by counting the fallen grains at the rate of one grain per year, indicating an association of vampires with arithmomania. Similar Chinese narratives state that if a vampire-like being came across a sack of rice, it would have to count every grain; this is a theme encountered in myths from the Indian subcontinent, as well as in South American tales of witches and other sorts of evil or mischievous spirits or beings.\n\nThe first Western accounts of belief in \"vrykolakas\" are from the mid 17th century, in compositions by authors such as the Greek librarian of the Vatican Leo Allatius (\"De quorundam Graecorum Opinationibus\", 1645), and Father François Richard (\"Relation de l'Isle de Sant-erini\", 1657), who tend to confirm the stories. The 1718 account of French traveller Joseph Pitton de Tournefort, who witnessed the exhumation and \"slaying\" of a suspected vrykolakas on the Greek island of Mykonos in 1701, became better known. The Greek \"vrykolakas\" were identified as the equivalent of the Slavic vampire during the \"Eighteenth century vampire controversy\", as exemplified in Johann Heinrich Zedler's \"Grosses vollständiges Universal-Lexicon\" (1732–1754).\n\nIt has become normal, in translating vampire movies and the like into Greek, to translate \"vampire\" as \"vrykolakas\". Presumably Modern Greeks raised on Hollywood vampire movies would be just as likely, if not more so, to think of Dracula, instead of the traditional Greek monster, when a \"vrykolakas\" is mentioned.\n\nOne of the few instances of the \"vrykolakas\" or \"vorvolaka\" being used in popular art and media is in the film \"Isle of the Dead\" (1945). Directed by Mark Robson, the film centres around a group of people on a small island, whose lives are threatened by a force that some believe to be the plague, and others believe to be the work of a \"vorvolaka\".\n\nArchaeological excavations on Lesbos at its capital Mytilene have uncovered two vrykolakas burials in early cemeteries. Both were middle aged men buried in special crypts with 20 cm spikes through neck, groin and ankles, a typical Balkan method of dealing with a suspected revenant. The British Vice-Consul, Charles Newton, in his \"Travels and Discoveries in the Levant\" mentions an island off the coast of Lesbos on which the Greeks of his time (1850s) buried their vrykolakadhes.\n\nSeveral books and novels has been written by western authors on Vrykolakas. Recent development in this area is Adventures in Death and Romance: Vrykolakas Tales authored by historian Monette Bebow-Reinhard.\nSuperposition by David Walton, Pyr Books 2015.\nIn contemporary literature, Dimitris Lyacos's postmodern play With the People from the Bridge handles the theme of Vrykolakas in the context of greek folklore and tradition. Characteristically, the female undead character in the book is apotropaically handled on a Saturday.\n\n\n°″≠≈≤≥±−×<includeonly></includeonly>"}
