{"id": "2276287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2276287", "title": "731 Lexington Avenue", "text": "731 Lexington Avenue\n\n731 Lexington Avenue is a glass skyscraper on Lexington Avenue, on the East Side of Midtown Manhattan, New York City. Opened in 2004, it houses the headquarters of Bloomberg L.P. and as a result, is sometimes referred to informally as Bloomberg Tower. The building also houses retail outlets, restaurants and 105 luxury condominiums. The residence section of the building is known as One Beacon Court and is served by a separate entrance.\n\n731 Lexington Avenue is a 55-story building with a roof height of . It is the 24th-tallest building in New York City and the 46th-tallest building in the United States.\n\nThe building occupies the former site of an Alexander's department store and is owned by the Alexander's real estate investment trust, the successor to the defunct retail chain.\n\nConstruction on the building began in 2001, three years after the vacant Alexander's department store was demolished. The building was developed by Vornado Realty Trust, as a fee developer, with César Pelli & Associates as architect. The building comprises a full city block between Lexington and Third Avenues and 58th and 59th Streets. The complex features two towers constructed above a steel office and retail section, separated by a seven-story atrium. The design of the courtyard at One Beacon Court, which connects 58th and 59th Streets, was inspired by other historic New York enclosures such as Grand Central Terminal, the reading room of the New York Public Library Main Branch, and the skating rink at Rockefeller Center; glass walls curve around the perimeter of the courtyard, tilting slightly inward as they rise.\n\nAlthough the building was originally planned to be entirely residential, Bloomberg L.P. negotiated a deal with Vornado Realty Trust to lease of office space at the base of the tower. STUDIOS Architecture did the design, which includes rows of uniform desks for approximately 4,000 employees and a large central atrium known as \"the Link\" that overlooks the courtyard. Paul Goldberger, in the August 6, 2007, issue of \"The New Yorker\" magazine, lauded the Bloomberg offices as \"a newsroom truly designed for the electronic age ... a dazzling work environment tucked inside a refined but conventional skyscraper.\" By 2011, Bloomberg L.P. added another of office space at 731 Lexington Avenue and announced plans to expand to an additional in the former Philip Morris building at 120 Park Avenue. Bloomberg pays Alexander's, the owner of the building, $105 million in annual rent.\n\nThe PBS commentary series \"Charlie Rose\" was formerly produced at 731 Lexington Avenue. Bloomberg Television also has its flagship studio in the building.\n\nRetail tenants include The Home Depot, H&M, and The Container Store. Sirio Maccioni's Le Cirque restaurant moved to the building from The New York Palace Hotel in 2006, but vacated in 2018.\n\nResidential tenants included Beyoncé, former NBC Nightly News anchor Brian Williams, and Bobby Abreu. Johnny Damon sold his unit for $8 million in 2010. Tina Knowles sold her unit for $5.6 million in 2011. Jack Welch purchased a unit in the building for $6.4 million and Jeffrey Immelt paid just over $4 million for a unit. Hedge fund manager Steven A. Cohen's unit is listed for sale for $67.5 million. Joseph Betesh, co-owner of hip hop clothing outlet Dr. Jay's, owned an apartment in the building from 2005 to 2013, which is now owned by VFT Investments.\n\nResidents have access to concierge services by the London-based Quintessentially Group, as well as use of \"The Beacon Club\", the 29th-floor amenity space that includes a health club, entertainment suite, children's playroom and business center. Other amenities include a 24-hour doorman, garage, and valet parking.\n\n"}
{"id": "24061342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24061342", "title": "AMS Device Manager", "text": "AMS Device Manager\n\nAMS Device Manager is plant asset management software from Asset Optimization (a business unit of Emerson Process Management). It provides a single application for predictive diagnostics, documentation, calibration management, and device configuration for managing field instruments and digital valve controllers.\n\nAMS Device Manager is based on open communication standards, and is a core component of the PlantWeb digital plant architecture.\n\nAMS Device Manager is used in chemical, food & beverage, life sciences, LNG, pulp & paper, refining, and water & wastewater companies. It is used to increase quality, throughput, and availability, while reducing costs around operations & maintenance, safety, health & environment, In addition, AMS Device Manager facilitates plants and mills to startup faster and deliver a significant return on investment.\n\nAMS Device Manager supports digital instrument inputs and outputs; FOUNDATION fieldbus, HART, PROFIBUS DP, PROFIBUS PA, and WirelessHART.\n\n"}
{"id": "33523746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33523746", "title": "Accor Asia Pacific’s Business Traveller Research", "text": "Accor Asia Pacific’s Business Traveller Research\n\nIntroduction\n\nThe Accor Asia Pacific Business Traveller Research is a study by Accor Asia Pacific, seeking to better understand the travel and behavioural preferences of business travellers in the Asia Pacific region. This research is now in its second year and has been updated to reflect market conditions unique to the Asia Pacific region. Accor partnered with Cimigo Ltd, a research consultancy in Asia Pacific, to conduct the research, with 10,437 Asia Pacific based business travellers from Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, New Zealand, Singapore and Thailand were surveyed online about their travel habits in the first half of 2011, and their planned business travel for the remainder of the year. The three key areas of that the study covered include Business travel in the first 6 months of 2011, and planned for the last 6 months of 2011, the process of planning the business trip and the usage of hotel facilities.\nFindings\n\nSingapore and Hong Kong tie for the most visited destination by APAC business travelers in the first half of 2011, with Thailand and China come in third and fourth respectively. For the second half of the year, Singapore (39%) and Hong Kong (38%) are also the most likely destinations for business travel.\nIn terms of the number of trips made, Asia Pacific business travellers took an average of 6.3 business trips in the first 6 months of 2011. The average number of trips differed by country of residence, with Chinese (8.7 trips), Indian (7.3 trips) and Singaporean (7.1 trips) business travellers ranking the highest, and Thais (5.0 trips), Australians (5.2 trips) and New Zealanders (5.2 trips) ranked lowest. When narrowed down to demographics, the research found that Male business travellers (7.0 trips) were on the road more frequently than females (4.5 trips). That said, Hong Kong has the largest percentage of female business travelers (36%), followed by Thailand (33%). At the extreme end, only 7 percent of the Indian respondents were women. In terms of daily hotel budget during business travel, Asia Pacific's executives average at US$121 with Australian business travelers leading the pack at US$158 per night. Singaporean and Hong Kongers spend US$134 and US$132 respectively. On the other hand, Chinese business travelers are more frugal, spending a mere US$99 a night. Both Singapore and Chinese business travellers (82%) are most likely to work at the hotel during their business trips. They are followed by Hong Kong business travellers (75%). Hotel facilities-wise, Indian business travelers are most likely to use both fitness (85%) and spa facilities (64%) than any other nationalities.\nWhen it comes to booking travel accommodation, respondents overwhelmingly preferred booking directly online with the hotel brand (57 per cent) followed by the secretary in the company (40%), while offline travel agents were used only by a minority (16%). However, the survey did not delve deeper into how secretaries made the bookings.\nIn the area of environmental consciousness, 90% of Chinese business travellers surveyed said they would choose a hotel that is more environmentally conscious and would even be willing to pay a premium extra for it.\n\n"}
{"id": "9317021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9317021", "title": "Aleksey Aleksandrov", "text": "Aleksey Aleksandrov\n\nAleksey Ivanovich Aleksandrov (, born 3 May 1952 in Leningrad, Soviet Union) is a Russian lawyer, businessman, and politician.\n\nIn 1993–2003 he was a deputy of the State Duma first from Our Home – Russia then from Unity and then United Russia. Since 2004, he has been the representative of the legislative assembly of Kaluga Oblast in the Federation Council of Russia.\n\n"}
{"id": "23581401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23581401", "title": "Andrea Mazzucchi", "text": "Andrea Mazzucchi\n\nAndrea Mazzucchi (born March 19, 1966) in Rome is an Italian American entrepreneur, network architect, and computer specialist\n\nHe played a significant role in the early development of Internet in Italy, and other countries in Eastern Europe, such as Croatia.\n\nBeing interested in the regulatory side, as well as the technical, he also played a key role in the Internet governance of Italy since 1985. He co-founded, in 1998, the ccTLD \".it\" policy board (Naming Authority), where he eventually became Chair of the Board of Directors. In 2004, once the Naming Authority evolved into the Rules Committee, he was one of the appointed members.\n\nFocused since the very beginning toward the Open Source, in 1992 he co-founded Nexus, the first ISP in Italy based exclusively on Linux and open technologies.\n\nIn 1993, Mazzucchi co-founded Gedi, one of the first companies in Italy for distance learning.\n\nIn 1995, he founded Istria On Line, the first ISP in Croatia, and worked on Internet pilot projects in Bulgaria and Hungary, mostly establishing TCP/IP over X.25 Internet connections for international businesses.\n\nHe is also an active member of the Internet community, being co-founder, with Giancarlo Livraghi, of ALCEI, initially conceived as the Italian branch of EFF.\nMoreover, he is co-founder of the Italian Chapter of ISOC where he served on the first Board of Directors.\n\n"}
{"id": "5542650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5542650", "title": "Arbitration award", "text": "Arbitration award\n\nAn arbitration award (or arbitral award) is a determination on the merits by an arbitration tribunal in an arbitration, and is analogous to a judgment in a court of law. It is referred to as an 'award' even where all of the claimant's claims fail (and thus no money needs to be paid by either party), or the award is of a non-monetary nature.\n\nAlthough arbitration awards are characteristically an award of damages against a party, tribunals usually have a range of remedies that can form a part of the award.\n\nArbitration is particularly popular as a means of dispute resolution in the commercial sphere (for a summary of the various arenas in which arbitration is usually chosen, see the specific article on \"arbitration\"). One of the reasons for doing so is that, in international trade, it is often easier to enforce an arbitration award in a foreign country than it is to enforce a judgment of the court.\n\nUnder the New York Convention 1958, an award issued in a contracting state can generally be freely enforced in any other contracting state, only subject to certain, limited defences. Those defences are:\n\n\nVirtually every significant commercial country in the world is a party to the Convention, but relatively few countries have a comprehensive network for cross-border enforcement of judgments of the court. Hence in many countries, particularly in emerging markets, a foreign arbitration award is much easier to enforce than an award of the court. For example, it is very difficult to enforce foreign judgments in the former CIS countries, but it is considerably easier to enforce awards of an arbitration tribunal.\n\nThe other characteristic of cross-border enforcement of arbitration awards that makes them appealing to commercial parties is that they are not limited to awards of damages. Whereas in most countries only monetary judgments are enforceable in the cross-border context, no such restrictions are imposed on arbitration awards and so it is theoretically possible (although unusual in practice) to obtain an injunction or an order for specific performance in an arbitration proceeding which could then be enforced in another New York Convention contracting state.\n\nThe New York Convention is not actually the only treaty dealing with cross-border enforcement of arbitration awards. The earlier Geneva Convention on the Execution of Foreign Arbitral Awards 1927 remains in force, but the success of the New York Convention means that the Geneva Convention is rarely utilised in practise.\n\nIn judicial proceedings in many countries, governments enjoy sovereign immunity from suit. However, governments can submit to arbitration, and certain international conventions exist in relation to the enforcement of awards against nation states.\n\nAlthough it is common to talk of an arbitration award as a single concept, in most legal jurisdictions there are several sub-categories of award.\n\nThe legal requirements relating to the making of awards vary from country to country and, in some cases, according to the terms of the arbitration agreement. Although in most countries, awards can be oral, this is relatively uncommon and they are usually delivered in writing.\n\nBy way of example, in the United Kingdom, the following are requirements under the Arbitration Act 1996 which the award must comply with, unless the parties agree to vary them under section 52 of the Act:\n\nMany countries have similar requirements, but most permit the parties to vary the conditions, which reflects the fact that arbitration is a party-driven process.\n\nIt is sometimes said that arbitration awards are not normally subject to appeal (often another reason given in favour of using arbitration), but that is usually an oversimplification.\n\nMost countries in the world allow arbitration awards to be \"challenged\" in the court, although they usually limit the circumstances in which such challenges may be brought. The two most commonly permitted grounds of challenge are:\n\nArbitration awards are non-justiciable. Distinguish from an \"expert determination\" where the expert determines a matter of fact (which is ordinarily not subject to any form of appeal at all, except in cases of obvious bias or manifest error or bad faith).\n\nIn addition, although not by way of challenge, many countries permit appeals on a point of law (although almost no countries permit appeals to be made in relation to findings of fact). This right is usually closely circumscribed to avoid undermining the commercial efficacy of arbitration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11115201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11115201", "title": "Asset retirement obligation", "text": "Asset retirement obligation\n\nAn Asset Retirement Obligation (ARO) is a legal obligation associated with the retirement of a tangible long-lived asset in which the timing or method of settlement may be conditional on a future event, the occurrence of which may not be within the control of the entity burdened by the obligation. In the United States, ARO accounting is specified by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS, or FAS) 143, which is Topic 410-20 in the Accounting Standards Codification published by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Entities covered by International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) apply a standard called IAS 37 to AROs, where the AROs are called \"provisions\". ARO accounting is particularly significant for remediation work needed to restore a property, such as decontaminating a nuclear power plant site, removing underground fuel storage tanks, cleanup around an oil well, or removal of improvements to a site. It does not apply to unplanned cleanup costs, such as costs incurred as a result of an accident.\n\nFirms must recognize the ARO liability in the period in which it was incurred, such as at the time of acquisition or construction. The liability equals the present value of the expected cost of retirement/remediation. An asset equal to the initial liability is added to the balance sheet, and depreciated over the life of the asset. The result is an increase in both assets and liabilities, while the total expected cost is recognized over time, with the accrual steadily increasing on a compounded basis.\n\nA company builds a gas station, with underground tanks to store the fuel. The tanks have an estimated life of 40 years (or, alternatively, the station site is leased for 40 years). The current cost to remove the tanks is $15,000. The company estimates future inflation for this type of work to be 2.5% per year. The company's credit-adjusted risk-free rate (cost of borrowing) is 9%.\n\nThe estimated future cost of removing the tanks in 40 years is $15,000 * (1.025 ^ 40) = $40,275.96. The present value of this cost is $40,275.96 / (1.09 ^ 40) = $1,282.29. At installation of the tanks, the company books an asset retirement cost (asset) and an asset retirement obligation (liability) of $1,282.29. The asset is depreciated, usually straight-line, over 40 years (depreciation expense of $32.06 per year). The liability is accreted (interest for each period is calculated and added to the balance), using the interest method. (Accretion expense would be $115.41 the first year, $125.79 the second year, etc.) Over the 40 year life, the liability thereby increases to $40,275.96. At retirement of the tank, the expenses actually incurred to remove the tank are booked against the ARO, and a gain or loss is recognized for the difference.\n\nThe increase of assets and liabilities by $1,282 will affect financial ratios, for example return on assets will decline, debt-to-equity ratio will increase, etc.\n\nCalculations are somewhat different under IAS 37, because the discount rate is regularly recalculated during the life of the ARO to reflect current market conditions. Whenever the rate changes, the present value is recalculated, and both the asset and liability are adjusted by the amount of the difference.\n\n"}
{"id": "14893417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14893417", "title": "Ayavalla Plantation", "text": "Ayavalla Plantation\n\nAyavalla Plantation was a quail hunting plantation located in northwest Leon County, Florida, established by John Henry Howard Phipps, son of John Shaffer Phipps of the prominent Phipps family.\n\nAyavalla was the Indian word used by Ellen Call Long for Lake Jackson. Long was the previous resident of nearby Orchard Pond Plantation and daughter of Governor Richard Keith Call.\n\nUpon John Shaffer Phipps' death in 1958, Orchard Pond Plantation and were passed on to grandson Colin Phipps, and grandson John E. Phipps was given on Ox Bottom Road. \n\nAdjacent plantations:\n\nAyavalla and the neighboring property of Elinor Klapp-Phipps Park host part of the Red Hills Horse Trials.\n\n"}
{"id": "8950973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8950973", "title": "Ballu Khan", "text": "Ballu Khan\n\nBallu Khan is an Indo-Fijianbusinessman of New Zealand citizenry. His company, Tui Management Services, is the joint owner with the Vanua Development Corporation (VDC) of Pacific Connex (PCX), which sells SAP software and has sought to enter the 3G mobile telephony market in Fiji. VDC is the commercial wing of the Native Land Trust Board (NLTB) which administers indigenous land holdings throughout Fiji. He is also a major supporter of the Ovalau Rugby Union team.\n\nKhan is known for his close ties with the former government of Laisenia Qarase, which was deposed in the military coup of 5 December 2006. He has a tense relationship with the Republic of Fiji Military Forces, which predates the coup.\n\nThe Fiji Sun reported on 25 October 2006 that Colonel Pita Driti, the Land Force Commander, had condemned Khan for employing former Counter Revolutionary Warfare Unit (CRW) soldiers as bodyguards. The CRW was implicated in a mutiny which left eight soldiers dead on 2 November 2000. Driti and Captain Esala Teleni, the Deputy Commander of the Military, issued a veiled threat to Khan, warning that the Military was in a position to stop former CRW soldiers from working for him.\n\nFollowing the coup, armed soldiers raided the PCX office and Khan's private residence on 9 December 2006, and arrested six bodyguards who had been CRW soldiers. Documents and hard drives were removed from the office, according to Colonel Driti. Khan's house was raided again on 12 December. All of these raids took place while Khan was out of Fiji.\n\nBallu Khan was born in Nalomolomo on Nairai Island in 1959. His father died in the Kadavulevu ship disaster when he was 4. He graduated with a master's degree in Commerce from the University of the South Pacific. He became a school teacher and taught at Vunisea and Laucala Bay Secondary School. He then trained as a chartered accountant and became an investigator for New Zealand's Inland Revenue Department.\n\nKhan formed Tui Consulting in Melbourne, Australia in 1997. Tui Consulting's business was assisting utilities and public sector organizations implement SAP software solutions. Tui Consulting has undertaken SAP projects in New Zealand, Australia, United States, Canada, and Singapore. In 2002 he moved the company's headquarters to Tacoma, Washington. Axon Group, a business transformation consultancy acquired Tui Consulting for a price, reported to be up to $(US)11.75 in December 2005\n\nIt was reported in February 2005 that Tui Consulting was being sued by Singapore’s largest electricity retailer, SP Services, for problems related to TUI’s implementation of a SAP computer system. The dispute was reportedly settled in 2005. Reports quoted the utility as saying that it encountered large-scale billing problems beginning in January 2000, eventually affecting about 144,000 of the 1.2 million electricity accounts. Tui Consulting denied the claims and filed a countersuit for $3 million, blaming SP Services for the problems.\n\nThe New Zealand Herald reported (6 November 2007) that Khan had been a controversial figure in Fiji business and political circles. PCX of which he owned 49% won a US$9.2 million contract in 2004 to supply a new SAP based computer system and maintenance service to the NLTB. PCX was described by NLTB as a step to acquire greater indigenous Fijian involvement in Fiji's developing IT industry. PCX was to handle NLTB's requirements as well as to bid for other IT projects. Staff of the NLTB's IT division were transferred to PCX. The Fiji Labour Party called at the time for a commission of inquiry into the awarding of the contract to PCX. An independent audit report undertaken in 2007 by KPMG Australia criticised the NTLB for allegedly failing to conduct a proper investigation before buying the computer system. The KPMG audit report questioned the credibility of the mySap system and recommended the NLTB seriously reconsider continuing its business relations with PCX. The audit report stated that PCX faced financial difficulties and may be insolvent, with VDC having given it a loan of $(US)2.4m.\n\nIn April 2005 it was reported that Khan was a key figure in a bid by PCX to apply for a 3G mobile telephony wireless licence in Fiji. Because of the alignment of PCX with NLTB, through VDC, it was put forth by the NLTB as a company that represented the interests of the indigenous Fijian people. Another interested party in the bid was Digicel, owned by Irish telecommunications entrepreneur, Denis O'Brien.\n\nKhan was identified in 2003 as making a \"substantial\" financial contribution to help the Auckland Blues rugby club retain a former All Black, Carlos Spencer, when he had been made offers by European rugby clubs. It was also reported that he supported a rugby academy in Fiji that sent young players to New Zealand.\n\nBallu Khan was one of a group of people arrested on November 3, 2007 as part of an investigation by the Fiji Police into an alleged assassination plot against members of the government. A military spokesman said that Khan resisted arrest and assaulted the officers who tried to detain him at a checkpoint in Lami. He also said that Khan had sustained minor injuries and was under armed guard at a hospital in Suva. 0n November 21. 2007 his lawyer Peter Williams Q.C. stated that Khan was seriously ill in hospital as a result of being assaulted by police and the deadline to charge him with offences related to the alleged assassination plot against national leaders had expired.\n\nOn November 22, 2007, Fiji Live quoted Khan as saying that people of high status within the interim Government of Fiji and the military held grudges against him. On November 25, 2007 a lawyer filed a writ in the Fiji High Court seeking compensation of $F40 million. The writ claimed Khan's treatment amounted to torture and reckless disregard for his health, and his civil rights were abused. Fiji's interim attorney-general, Aiyaz Sayed-Khaiyum, stated the government of Fiji would defend the claim.\n"}
{"id": "6222190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6222190", "title": "Bank statement", "text": "Bank statement\n\nA bank statement or account statement is a summary of financial transactions which have occurred over a given period on a bank account held by a person or business with a financial institution.\n\nBank statements have historically been and continue to be typically printed on one or several pieces of paper and either mailed directly to the account holder, or kept at the financial institution's local branch for pick-up. In recent years there has been a shift towards paperless, electronic statements, and some financial institutions offer direct download into account holders accounting software.\n\nSome ATMs offer the possibility to print, at any time, a condensed version of a bank statement, commonly called a transaction history, or a transaction history may be viewed on the financial institution's website or available via telephone banking. Transaction history may also be shared with other financial institutions when the account holder gives permission through open banking to provide services such as account aggregation.\n\nHistorically, bank statements were paper statements produced monthly, quarterly or even annually. Since the introduction of computers in banks in the 1960s, bank statements have generally been produced monthly. Bank statements for accounts with small transaction volumes, such as investments or savings accounts, are usually produced less frequently. Depending on the financial institution, bank statements may also include certain features such as the cancelled cheques (or their images) that cleared through the account during the statement period.\n\nSome financial institutions use the occasion of posting bank statements to include notices such as changes in fees or interest rates or to include promotional material.\n\nToday, the monthly mailing of bank statements is the norm in many countries. It is not customary in some countries, such as Japan, where individual account holders are expected to keep track of deposits, withdrawals, and balances using their own passbooks at ATMs.\n\nWith the wider access to the Internet and online banking, bank statements (also known as electronic statements or e-statements) can be viewed online, and downloaded or printed by the customer. To reduce the cost of postage and the generation of paper bank statements, some financial institutions encourage their customers to receive bank statements electronically, for example by charging a fee for paper statements. This may be as attachments to emails or, as a security measure, as a reminder that a new statement is available on the financial institution's website. Whether such statements are transmitted as attachments or from the website, they are commonly generated in PDF format, to reduce the ability of the recipient to electronically alter the statement.\n\nDue to identity theft concerns, an electronic statement may not be seen as a dangerous alternative against physical theft as it does not contain tangible personal information, and does not require extra safety measures of disposal such as shredding. However, an electronic statement can be easier to obtain than a physical one through computer fraud, data interception and/or theft of storage media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953222", "title": "Cash advance", "text": "Cash advance\n\nA cash advance is a service provided by most credit card and charge card issuers. The service allows cardholders to withdraw cash, either through an ATM or over the counter at a bank or other financial agency, up to a certain limit. For a credit card, this will be the credit limit (or some percentage of it).\n\nCash advances often incur a fee of 3 to 5 percent of the amount being borrowed. When made on a credit card, the interest is often higher than other credit card transactions. The interest compounds daily starting from the day cash is borrowed.\n\nSome \"purchases\" made with a credit card of items that are viewed as cash are also considered to be cash advances in accordance with the credit card network's guidelines, thereby incurring the higher interest rate and the lack of the grace period. These often include money orders, prepaid debit cards, lottery tickets, gaming chips, and certain taxes and fees paid to certain governments. However, should the merchant not disclose the actual nature of the transactions, these will be processed as regular credit card transactions. Many merchants have passed on the credit card processing fees to the credit card holders in spite of the credit card network's guidelines, which state the credit card holders should not have any extra fee for doing a transaction with a credit card.\n\nUnder card scheme rules, a credit card holder presenting an accepted form of identification must be issued a cash advance over the counter at any bank which issues that type of credit card, even if the cardholder cannot give their PIN.\n"}
{"id": "50421011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50421011", "title": "Clock Software", "text": "Clock Software\n\nClock Software is a private limited company developing software and hardware solutions for the hospitality industry - property management system, restaurant point of sale, online booking engine, channel manager, self-service kiosk, mobile hotel app. Its headquarters is in London, UK.\n\nClock Software was incorporated in 1994 in Varna, Bulgaria, under the name Clock Ltd (Клок ООД). Initially, the company specialized in selling hardware and peripherals but soon switched its focus to the development of hotel software. In 1996 Clock launched their first property management system - ClockFront for Windows. At the time, a huge privatisation was going on as part of the transition of the country to democracy and market economy. All hotels, previously owned by the state, were changing ownership and needed new software to replace previous, often centralised, management systems. Clock Software took the chance to offer their software to the newly privatised hotels.\n\nIn 2006 Clock Software started to expand to countries outside Bulgaria and opened offices in Romania (2007) and Croatia (2008). The first markets where their products were adopted were Romania, Macedonia and Croatia.\n\nIn 2010 Clock took the decision to create a completely new hospitality software suite based on cloud technology. The new product was built around the idea of consolidation of separate applications into one cloud-based platform and switching from data-focused to guest-centered software model. A new branch was registered in London, UK under the name of Clock Software Ltd. to take over the international development and the distribution of the cloud-based software products, while the Bulgarian branch remained in charge of software development and support.\nClock Software launched their first cloud product, the free Internet reservation system InnHand, in 2012. In 2013 they launched the hotel management platform Clock PMS. A year later InnHand was discontinued and the company focused entirely on the new system. In 2016, the company released their first hardware device, a self-service kiosk.\n\nIts Windows-based installable software solutions Clock Software offers in Eastern Europe, while the latest cloud-based hotel management platform, Clock PMS, is available globally. Clock PMS has customers in 50+ countries (as of end of 2016) with Lark Hotels and McMillan Hotels among them. In 2015 Clock PMS was featured in the annual report by Software Advice \"Hotel Software User View report - 2015\" and in 2016 Clock Software was included in the Grant Thornton's report \"Emerging clouds in hotel technology | Spotlight on cloud-based PMS\" \n\nClock PMS is a property management system delivered as SaaS. It is hosted on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and is a certified partner of various third party providers: payment gateways - PayPal, Authorize.Net, Worldpay, Adyen; channel managers - RoomCloud and Yield Planet; door lock systems - ASSA ABLOY, hotel meta search websites - TripConnect by Tripadvisor\n\nClock PMS is a cloud based suite of software solutions for hotels, chains, vacation rentals and other accommodation providers. It includes the following modules:\nClock EVO - Property management system for Windows\nClock POSitive - Point of Sale system for Windows\nClock Effect - Inventory management system for Windows\n\n"}
{"id": "32023543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32023543", "title": "Company registration in Ghana", "text": "Company registration in Ghana\n\nGhana has several business registration systems. Company registration is done by the Registrar General's Department.\n"}
{"id": "8518574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8518574", "title": "Daniel Janssen", "text": "Daniel Janssen\n\nDaniel Janssen (born 15 April 1936 in Brussels) is a Belgian businessman.\n\nHe is a son of Charles-Emmanuel Janssen, liberal deputy of Walloon Brabant, and Maya Boël, daughter of the Vice-president of the Senate Pol Boël. He married Thérèse Bracht, and together they have three children, Charles-Antoine Janssen (b. 1971), Nicolas Janssen (b. 1974), and Edouard Janssen (b. 1978).\n\nHe started school at the Hamaïde School of Brussels (1940 - 1945), continued at the Athenaeum Robert Catteau of Brussels (1945 to 1953). From 1953 until 1958, he then studied at the polytechnic faculty of the Universite Libre de Bruxelles (ULB) where he graduates as civil engineer in nuclear physics. From 1959 until 1960, he worked at the Cabinet of Commissioner De Groote at Euratom, after which he studied at Harvard Business School in the United States from 1960 to 1962, where he obtains an MBA.\n\nFrom 1962 to 1984 he worked at the Union Chimique Belge as an engineer, then Director of R&D, and then President of the Executive Committee from 1975 to 1984. He was Vice-President of the Board of Directors. From 1986 onwards, he was successively CEO and Chairman of Solvay.\n\nDuring his career, he was Chairman of the Federation des Entreprises de Belgique and of CEFIC. He served on various Advisory Boards (including Fortis). He offered a Chair for Corporate Social Responsibility to the Solvay Business School. In May 2006 he retired. He is a member of the Executive Committee of the Trilateral Commission and a member of the European Round Table of Industrialists (ERT). He is a former member of the Steering Committee of the Bilderberg Group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14048630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14048630", "title": "Dimeji Bankole", "text": "Dimeji Bankole\n\nSabur Oladimeji \"Dimeji\" Bankole (born 14 November 1969) is a Nigerian politician and 9th Speaker of the House of Representatives of Nigeria. Elected at the age of 37, Bankole is the youngest Speaker in the history of the House.\n\nThe son of Abeokuta chief, Alani Bankole, he was a businessman before being elected to the House.\nA Muslim Egba, Bankole was born in Abeokuta in what is now Ogun State on 14 November 1969. His parents are Alani Bankole, a businessman, former National Vice-Chairman and acting Chairman of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and Seriki Jagunmolu of Egbaland, and his wife, Atinuke Bankole, Ekerin Iyalode of Egbaland.\n\nNewspaper \"Thisday\" identifies Bankole's education as such: Baptist Boys' High School, Abeokuta starting 1979; Albany College, London, England, starting 1985; University of Reading, Reading, England, starting 1989; University of Oxford's Officer Training College, Oxford, England, in 1991; and Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, US, in 2005.\n\nBankole obtained a Master of Public Administration degree from John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, USA in 2005.\n. In 2014, he became a Mason Fellow in Public Policy and Management at John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, USA.\n\nIn 1991, Bankole passed D.A.B selection into Royal Military Academy Sandhurst while taking courses for military officers at Oxford University where he was in the Artillery Corps.\n\nBankole is a polo player, and is a member of the Lagos Polo Club and the Guards Polo Club, Abuja with defence as his preferred position. He also enjoys football.\n\nAn economist, Bankole is Chairman, Aspire Integrated Consultants Nigeria (since 2012) and Vice President, Africa House London (since 2016).\n\nPreviously, Bankole was a Director of Freight Agencies Nigeria Limited from 1995 until 1998, Executive Director of Operations of West African Aluminium Products Limited from 1998 until 2004, and Director of ASAP Limited from 2000 until 2003.\n\nIn 2002, Bankole was elected to the House of Representatives on the People's Democratic Party (PDP) ticket to represent the Abeokuta South Federal Constituency of Ogun State. He was Deputy Chairman of the House Committee on Finance while Aminu Bello Masari was Speaker, (Farouk Lawan was Chairman of the committee) and was also previously Chairman of the House Committee on Land Transport. Other committees he has sat on are the panels on Defence, Internal Affairs and Banking, and Currency.\n\nBankole was re-elected in April 2007. He considers his legislative interests to be those related to defence and finance.\n\nIn September 2007, a committee questioned Speaker Patricia Etteh about her spending of ₦628 million ($4.8m) on home renovation and automobiles. She denied wrongdoing, but many representatives were unhappy with her attempts to defend herself, blows were traded on the floor of the House, and Etteh had to be escorted from the chamber. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo and many top PDP members continued to back her, but a large segment of the party, led by Lawan and including Bankole, called for her resignation. It was reported that Bankole, among multiple other contenders, hoped to succeed her as early as 5 October 2007.\n\nAfter Etteh's resignation from the post on 30 October (along with her deputy, who was also caught up in the scandal), Integrity Group (anti-Etteh) member Terngu Tsegba became interim speaker.\n\nOn 1 November, he was elected to succeed Etteh. The election began at 10.30am. The House was short of the statutory 360 members because three (Moses Segun Oladimeji, Joe Anota and Aminu Shuaibu Safana) died. Two constituencies were yet to elect their representatives. 328 of the 355 members voted. Samson Osagie of Edo State nominated Bankole for the post of Speaker, and Lynda Ikpeazu of Anambra State seconded the proposal. His challenger was Osun State Representative George Jolaoye, whom he beat by 304 votes to 20 (and 4 abstentions). Etteh was among those who voted against Bankole. The new deputy speaker was Usman Bayero Nafada. Bankole was declared speaker at 1.30pm.\n\nIn his acceptance speech, entitled \"We Stand Upon The Threshold of History\", Bankole said \"I am taking over the mantle of leadership at a very difficult time. But these are hard times, we need to build confidence again and assure the populace that we are still their representatives. I want an independent house that Nigerians will be proud of, this is my first task.\"\n\nOne week after his election, political opponents claimed that Bankole had not completed his National Youth Service Corps (N.Y.S.C) service, which is mandatory for all Nigerian university graduates under thirty years of age when they graduate, and called for his resignation over the issue. Bankole provided his N.Y.S.C discharge certificate, ending the rumour.\nOn 22 June 2010 Bankole suspended 11 members of parliament indefinitely for disorderliness and fighting in the house.\n\nDuring his tenure, the House of Representatives as a result of performance of its oversight function ensured that Federal Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDA's) returned unspent budgeted funds amounting to about 450 billion naira to the government treasury in 2007 while about 350 billion naira was again recovered in 2008. In total, the House of Representatives ensured the return of about 1 trillion naira unspent funds by MDA's as part of the annual budgetary process under Bankole's speakership. These were unprecedented in the history of oversight in Nigeria’s legislature. Up until then, MDA's did not return unspent funds. Also, the House of Representatives discovered that about 5 trillion naira generated revenue were never remitted by MDA's for the past 5 years before investigation.\n\nUnder Bankole, the 64 billion naira contract for the second runway for the Nnamdi Azikwe Airport in Abuja was investigated and found to be grossly inflated. The contract was thus terminated by the Federal Government of Nigeria.\n\nUnder him, the House of Representatives accepted 328 motions, approved 282 resolutions and passed 136 bills. These bills include the Freedom of Information(FOI) Act and Fiscal Responsibility Act which ensured that all revenue-generating agencies of government present their budgets for scrutiny every year. The agencies, which include the CBN, NNPC and Customs spent trillions of naira yearly without appropriation by the National Assembly.\n\nIn 2011, Bankole was tried by Nigeria's anti-corruption agency and was cleared of all charges. \n\nThe judge while clearing Bankole stated that the House of Representatives incurred a loan from a bank to run its expenses, the loan was paid back fully to the bank and Bankole was not a beneficiary of the loan in any capacity therefore no crime was committed. \n"}
{"id": "56130700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56130700", "title": "Eduardo Hochschild", "text": "Eduardo Hochschild\n\nEduardo Hochschild (born c. 1963) is a Peruvian businessman. He is the chairman of Hochschild Mining. His great-uncle is company founder Moritz Hochschild. He enrolled at Tufts University and graduated from the School of Engineering in 1987 with a degree in Engineering Physics. His father, Luis Hochschild Plaut, was killed in a kidnapping attempt in 1998.\n"}
{"id": "39482811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39482811", "title": "Edward Beddington-Behrens", "text": "Edward Beddington-Behrens\n\nMajor Sir Edward Beddington-Behrens (2 February 1897 – 28 November 1968) was a British soldier, businessman and patron of the arts, and a leading advocate of European co-operation.\n\nBeddington-Behrens was born in Paris in 1897, where his father, Walter Behrens, was President of the British Chamber of Commerce. He was educated at Charterhouse School, and the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich.\n\nIn 1915, Beddington-Behrens was commissioned into the Royal Field Artillery, winning the Military Cross in 1917, with bar added in 1918. His twin brother 2nd Lt. Walter Louis Behrens, Royal Field Artillery, was killed in action in 1917.\n\nAfter the war, he studied at Christ Church, Oxford and took a PhD in economics at the University of London, before becoming one of the British representatives at the League of Nations. In 1932, he published \"A Practical Monetary Policy for the Ottawa Conference\".\n\nWhen World War II broke out, Beddington-Behrens was called up from the Territorial Army, and served in Belgium prior to Dunkirk, and later as a staff officer at Coleshill House.\n\nHe pursued a successful career in business, with interests in engineering, shipping and textiles. He was Chairman of the Ocean Trust Ltd, Gray's Carpets and Textiles and Jeremiah Ambler and Sons.\n\nIn the 1953 Coronation honours, Beddington-Behrens was made a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George, in recognition of his work on European co-operation. He served as Chairman of the British Committee of the European League for Economic Cooperation, later becoming President of the European Movement, for which he was knighted in 1957. In 1966, he published \"Is There Any Choice? Britain Must Join Europe\".\n\nBeddington-Behrens' mother, Evelyn Beddington, was from a family of art patrons, including her sister Violet Salaman Beddington Schiff and brother-in-law, the author Sydney Schiff.\nEdward continued this tradition, supporting Stanley Spencer and his wife Patricia Preece. In the 1930s, Spencer and Beddington-Behrens spent time in Switzerland, in Valais and Zermatt. He was also a patron of Oscar Kokoschka, housing him and his wife Olda in Park Lane in 1943. Among his notable acquisitions were a 1965 cast of the 1913 sculpture ‘’The Dancer’’ by Henri Gaudier-Brzeska and \"The Crab\" by Oskar Kokoschka both now in the Tate collection. He was a friend and neighbour of Max Beerbohm, who drew his portrait in 1948, and in London socialised with Charlie Chaplin.\n\nBeddington-Behrens was married three times. \n\n\nHe died at his London home, Chesham Place, Belgravia, in November 1968, and is buried in the churchyard of St James, Abinger Common, near his country home, Abinger Manor.\n"}
{"id": "36130131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36130131", "title": "Emile Lahoud Jr.", "text": "Emile Lahoud Jr.\n\nEmile Lahoud Jr., more commonly Emile Emile Lahoud, (born 21 January 1975) is a Lebanese politician and businessman.\n\nEmile Lahoud Jr. was born in Baabdat, Lebanon on 21 January 1975. He is the eldest son of former Lebanese President Emile Lahoud and Andree Amadoni.\n\nEmile Lahoud Jr. completed secondary education at International College in Beirut. He then enrolled at Notre Dame University (NDU). However, he transferred to the Lebanese American University (LAU) in 1993 where he obtained a bachelor of science degree in business marketing in 1997. Next, he began to study politics, international relations, economics, and social affairs at the graduate program of International Affairs at LAU. He received a master's degree there in 1999.\n\nEmile Lahoud Jr. founded L and R communications, a media company, in 1999. He was elected as the deputy of Metn in August 2000 in the general elections. He was part of the list headed by then minister of interior Michel Murr, and his election campaign was managed by Elias Murr. This caused the protests by rival candidates led by then Lebanon President Emile Lahoud's first cousin, Nassib Lahoud. In 2000, he attended a memorial service for the late President-elect Bashir Gemayel. His participation in the ceremony was reported to make upset Syrian authorities. Emile Lahoud Jr. did not take part in the 2005 general elections.\n\nHe extended his company, L and R communications, to Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Syria in 2006. It is argued that he monopolized the advertising market.\n\nLahoud married Sabine Tanbourgi, daughter of Gilbert Tanbourgi in September 2002. He has two children, Emile and Emma. He is a swimmer and participated in 1988 and 1992 Summer Olympic Games.\n"}
{"id": "182311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=182311", "title": "Financial Accounting Standards Board", "text": "Financial Accounting Standards Board\n\nThe Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is a private, non-profit organization standard-setting body whose primary purpose is to establish and improve Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) within the United States in the public's interest. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) designated the FASB as the organization responsible for setting accounting standards for public companies in the US. The FASB replaced the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' (AICPA) Accounting Principles Board (APB) on July 1, 1973.\n\nFASB accounting standards are accepted as authoritative by many organizations, including state Boards of Accountancy and the American Institute of CPAs (AICPA).\n\nThe FASB's mission is to “establish and improve financial accounting and reporting standards to provide useful information to investors and other users of financial reports and educate stakeholders on how to most effectively understand and implement those standards.” The FASB carries out its mission through improving the usefulness of financial reporting, focusing on the faithful representation and relevance of financial information, including the enhancing characteristics of useful information, comparability, timeliness, understandability, and verifiability. The FASB also accomplishes their mission through educating and guiding auditors, preparers, and other users of financial statements, ensuring current standards reflect developments in methods of doing business and economic environment changes, and by acknowledging areas of insufficiency in financial reporting that could be improved through the standard setting process.\n\nThe FASB is based in Norwalk, Connecticut, and is led by seven full-time Board members, one being the chairman, appointed by the Financial Accounting Foundation (FAF) to serve five-year terms and are eligible for one term reappointment.\n\nThe qualifications to serve on the FASB Board include professional competence and realistic experience from professions like financial reporting, investment services, and financial planning. Board members also come from sectors such as academia, business, and legal, or government agencies.\n\nFASB Board members, as of 30 April 2018:\n\nThe board is supported by more than 60 staff with backgrounds in public accounting, industry, academia, and government.\n\nThe FASB is subject to oversight by the Financial Accounting Foundation (FAF), which selects the members of the FASB and the Governmental Accounting Standards Board and funds both organizations. The Board of Trustees of the FAF is selected by a nomination process that involves several organizations from investing, accounting, business, financial, and governmental sectors, but are ultimately selected by the existing Board. The selection process was amended as such in 2008 to reduce private sector influence on the Board of Trustees and its oversight of the FASB and GASB.\n\nThe FASB obtains funding from accounting support fees, subscription and publication revenues, and investment income.\n\nFASB Accounting Support Fees are collected under the authority of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Fees are assessed and collected from issuers of publicly-traded securities and allocated based on the average market capitalization of each issuer. The FASB accounting support fees are reviewed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) each year to ensure compliance with the statute.\n\nSubscription and Publication revenue includes sales and licensing of copyrighted FASB-related materials. The Financial Accounting Foundation (FAF) licenses the content of the FASB Codification to commercial publishers and other licensees for inclusion in their proprietary online research systems. The FASB Codification materials also are available through various paid subscription plans and hard copy printed versions.\n\nMarshall Armstrong, then-president of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), appointed a group of seven men (the Wheat Committee) in the early 1970s to examine the organization and operation of the Accounting Principles Board, in order to determine what adjustments were needed to facilitate more accurate and timely results. Their findings, “Report of the Study on the Establishment of Accounting Principles”, were published in March 1972, and proposed several changes including establishing the Financial Accounting Foundation, separate from other professional firms, that would be overseen by the Board of Trustees. The FASB was conceived as a full-time body to ensure that Board member deliberations encourage broad participation, objectively consider all stakeholder views, and are not influenced or directed by political/private interests. The Wheat Report also recommended developing the “Financial Accounting Standards Advisory Council, a 20-member advisory council that members serve an initial 1-year term, that could be renewed indefinitely, and to explicitly define the FASB research projects, to ensure timely and appropriate results.\n\nThe U.S Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Accounting Series Release No. 150 (ASR 150), which states that FASB pronouncements will be considered by the SEC as having “substantial authoritative support”, in 1973. That same year, the FASB issued its first standard, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 1: Disclosure of Foreign Currency Translation Information.\n\nThe FASB Conceptual Framework was established in 1973 as a comprehensible set of standards and rules intended to address and solve new emerging issues. The conceptual framework underlied financial accounting by serving as the Board’s reasoning behind its standards-setting decisions.\n\nThe conceptual framework provides two functions: to state the objectives of financial reporting and provide definitions of financial statement elements. The conceptual framework creates a foundation for financial accounting and establishes consistent standards that highlights the nature, function, and limitations of financial reporting.\n\nThe FASB formed the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) in 1984. This group was formed in order to provide timely responses to financial issues as they emerged. This group includes 15 people from both the private and public sectors coupled with representatives from the FASB and an SEC observer. As issues emerge, the task force considers them and tries to reach a consensus on what course of action to take. From conception until the 2003 AICPA GAAP Agreement, if consensus was reached on an topic, the group would issue an EITF Issue that was considered equivalent to a FASB pronouncement and included in GAAP.\n\nThe FASB participated in an international conference on global accounting standards in 1991, “The Objectives and Concepts Underlying Financial Reporting,” co-sponsored by the International Accounting Standards Committee and the Fédération des Experts Comptables Européens.\n\nTwo years later, the FASB participated in the formation of the G4+1, a group of international standard setters, whose members included the United States, Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada and New Zealand. In August 1994 the group released a special report, titled “Future Events: A Conceptual Study of their Significance for Recognition and Measurement”.\n\nIn 1999, the FASB issued a report on “International Accounting Standard Setting: A Vision for the Future”, which acknowledged the rapid changes taking place in the international accounting standard setting environment, and that Convergence and development of high-quality international standards are coinciding goals.\n\nThe U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) published a \"proposed Roadmap” for the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for U.S. companies, to replace U.S. GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) on a timetable that established several milestones to be achieved by 2011 as the basis for moving ahead toward a transition to IFRS beginning in 2014.\"\n\nIn 2002, the FASB commenced work on a convergence project in partnership with the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), the independent, accounting standard-setting body of the International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation. The two groups met on September 18, 2002, in Norwalk, Connecticut, to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) which \"committed the boards to developing high-quality, compatible accounting standards with a common solution.\"\n\nThis MoU, which came to be known as the “Norwalk Agreement,” outlined plans to converge IFRS and US GAAP into one set of high quality and compatible standards. For ten years the FASB and IASB collaborated on a \"common objective not only to eliminate differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP wherever possible, “but also to achieve convergence in accounting standards that stood the test of time.\"\n\nThe Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was signed into law on July 30, 2002, to protect stakeholders and investors by improving the dependability and precision of corporate financial disclosures. The legislation also created the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), and included accounting support fees from issuers of securities to FASB.\n\nIn November 2002, FASB Chairman Robert Herz announced that FASB and AICPA came to the agreement that the AICPA would no longer issue Statements of Positions (SOPs) that are considered authoritative GAAP. They also concluded that consensus of the EITF will be required to be ratified by the FASB to become authoritative GAAP.\n\nThe FASB established the Investor Task Force (ITF) in 2005, which was an advisory resource that provided the Board with sector expertise and specific insights from the professional investment community on relevant accounting issues. The FASB then implemented SFAS 157 which established new standards for disclosure regarding fair value measurements in financial statements in 2006. That same year, the FASB added Investor Liaisons to its staff, who would be responsible for reaching out to investors to hear feedback on the various FASB activities.\n\nThe FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board created the Financial Crisis Advisory Group in 2008—an international group of standard-setting bodies—that coordinated responses \"on the future of global standards in light of\" the financial crisis of 2007–2010.\nThe FCAG was composed of 15–20 senior leaders in finance and chaired by Harvey Goldschmid and Hans Hoogervorst with a mandate to investigate financial reporting issues uncovered by the global financial crisis. FCAG members included Stephen Haddrill and Michel Prada—a member of the International Centre for Financial Regulation (ICFR) and co-chair of the Council on Global Financial Regulation was a member of the Financial Crisis Advisory Group. Haddrill who was the only UK representative on the FCAG, is CEO of the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in the United Kingdom and has a close interest in accounting standards.\n\nThe FCAG issued a report in July 2009 finding, among other things, that the FASB and SEC had been pressured by politicians and banks to change accounting standards to protect banks from the impact of their toxic mortgages. Just prior to the report to the G20, and in reference to the political pressure placed on standards setters \"to make changes to fair value accounting rules over suggestions that it exacerbated the financial crisis\" Haddrill cautioned, \"Who do we want to set accounting standards? Not politicians, that’s clear. But neither do we want experts vacuum-packed in a world of their own.\"\n\nOn July 1, 2009, the FASB announced the launch of its Accounting Standards Codification, an online research system representing the single source of authoritative nongovernmental U.S. GAAP, available from the FASB in multiple views; Professional view, Academic view, and Basic view. The Codification organizes the pronouncements that constitute U.S. GAAP into a consistent, searchable format. The Codification is not to be confused with the FASB's 1973 Conceptual Framework project.\n\nIn 2010, the SEC instructed the staff to create and implement a work plan that addresses whether, when and how US GAAP should be merged into a global reporting model developed by International Accounting Standards Board (IASB)—the standards setting body designated by the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The SEC staff research included including convergence with IFRS and an alternate IFRS endorsement mechanism.\n\nIn the resulting 2012 report the SEC Staff asserted that the IFRS standards were not sufficiently supported by U.S. capital market participants and lacked consistent implementation methods. The report goes on to say that, while the U.S. financial reporting community does not support IFRS as the authoritative mechanism for US financial reporting, there is support for “high-quality, globally accepted accounting standards” as demonstrated in the joint efforts of the IASB and FASB to develop converged financial reporting for revenue recognition and lease accounting.\n\nThe FASB and the IASB issued guidance on recognizing revenue in contracts with customers in 2014, establishing principles to report useful information to users of financial statements about the nature, timing, and uncertainty of revenue from these transactions. In May 2015 the SEC acknowledged that \"investors, auditors, regulators and standard-setters\" in the United States did not support mandating International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation (IFRS) for all U.S. public companies. There was \"little support for the SEC to provide an option allowing U.S. companies to prepare their financial statements under IFRS.\" However, there was support for a single set of globally accepted accounting standards. The FASB and IASB planned meetings in 2015 to discuss \"business combinations, the disclosure framework, insurance contracts and the conceptual framework.\" As of 2017, there were no active bilateral FASB/IASB projects underway. Instead, the FASB participates in the Accounting Standards Advisory Forum, a global grouping of standard-setters, and monitors individual projects to seek comparability.\n\nThe FASB pronouncements are a set of rules and general guidelines that help to facilitate the reporting of financial information. The pronouncements are part of the accounting framework known as generally accepted accounting principles.\n\nIn order to establish accounting principles, the FASB issues pronouncements publicly, each addressing general or specific accounting issues. These pronouncements are Statements of Financial Accounting Standards, Statements of Financial Accounting Concepts, FASB Interpretations, FASB Technical Bulletins, EITF Abstracts. Since September 15, 2009, authoritative announcements are contained in the codification itself.\n\nOn May 28, 2014, the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) jointly issued substantially converged standards on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers. The standards improve the financial reporting of revenue and improve comparability of the top line in financial statements globally. The two boards developed new, substantially converged requirements for the recognition of revenue in both IFRS and U.S. GAAP – providing substantial enhancements to the quality and consistency of how revenue is reported while also improving comparability in the financial statements of companies reporting using IFRS and U.S. GAAP. The previous revenue recognitions requirements of both IFRS and U.S. GAAP differed from one and often resulted in different accounting for transactions that were economically similar. Furthermore, while revenue recognition requirements of IFRS lacked sufficient detail, the accounting requirements of U.S. GAAP were considered to be overly prescriptive and conflicting in certain areas.\n\nOn June 16, 2016 the FASB issued an ASU that improves financial reporting by requiring timelier recording of credit losses on loans and other financial instruments held by financial institutions and other organizations. The ASU also amends the accounting for credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities and purchased financial assets with credit deterioration, and requires enhanced disclosures to help investors and other financial statement users better understand significant estimates and judgments used in estimating credit losses, as well as the credit quality and underwriting standards of an organization’s portfolio.\n\nThe FASB Issued statement number 167, a revision to FASB interpretation no. 46(R) Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, in June 2009. This update provides new guidance on how to determine whether an organization that is either inadequately capitalized or not controlled through voting rights should be consolidated.\n\nUnder the new standard, the decision whether to consolidate is determined by two factors: a company’s design and intention and a parent company’s ability to direct that organization’s actions in a way that significantly impacts its economic performance.\n\nIn late 2006, the FASB issued \"Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans\" (statement 158). Under this update, if a pension or other postretirement plan is overfunded, a company must recognize that overfunded amount as an asset, which can be reduced later if the plan becomes underfunded. Conversely, if a plan is underfunded, a company must recognize that underfunded amount as a liability, which can be reduced if a plan’s funding increases in a period. These asset or liability determinations are recognized at the employer’s year end in the same year that the plan funding takes place.\n\nThese enhancements were made in order to provide employees, investors, retirees, and users of financial statements more complete information about the status of a pension or other postretirement plan, which is used to make informed decisions about organizations capabilities to fulfill plan obligations.\n\nThe FASB issued a statement on \"Share Based Payments\" (statement 123(R)) in 2004, developed jointly with the IASB. This standard update requires companies to identify the cost of share-based payments (e.g., restricted share plans, employee share purchase plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation rights, and stock options) within their financials. The FASB updated this reporting standard with the goal of improving comparability, relevance and reliability of financial information.\n\nIn February 2016, the FASB issued a new Leases standard, to improve financial reporting about leasing transactions. The new standard requires organizations to include lease obligations on their balance sheets, and affects all companies and other organizations that lease assets.\n\nThis project was first commenced by the FASB and the IASB in 2006, and the IASB issued IFRS 16, Leases, on January 13, 2016. The FASB issued an ASU to improve the accounting for lease transactions on February 25, 2016. The improvements in this ASU requires organizations engaged in leasing arrangements to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with terms of 12 months or longer. Organizations are also required to recognize both operating leases and capital leases on their balance sheets, and disclose information pertaining to the lease amount, time, and uncertainties of cash flows.\n\nStatement No. 133 was issued by the FASB in June 1998, which inaugurated accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including instruments rooted in other contracts, and hedging activities. Organizations are also required to identify all derivatives as assets or liabilities, which are stated at fair value. Derivatives can be classified as a hedge of the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment, a hedge of the exposure to variable cash flows of a projected transaction, or a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, an unrecognized firm obligation, an available-for-sale security, or a foreign-currency-denominated predicted transaction. Upon electing to use hedge accounting, companies must establish a method to evaluate the effectiveness of hedging a derivative, and a method to determine the ineffectiveness of a hedge. The FASB further improved derivative accounting in 2017 with simplification measures included in ASU 2017-12.\n\nCritics argue that the 2006 SFAS 157 contributed to the 2008 financial crisis by easing the mark-to-market accounting rule and allowing valuation of assets based on their current market price, rather than the purchase price. Critics claim FASB changes to mark-to-market accounting were made to accommodate \"banks with toxic assets on their books.\"\nHowever, others from within the accounting profession assert that the mark-to-market system in fact provides greater transparency and stability by applying similar values to similar assets, regardless of whether they were bought or created internally by a firm. They contrast this with the alternate “mark-to-model” system—said to be riskier, less transparent, and results in incomparable and inconsistent reporting.\n\nOthers say mark-to-market provides the most practical choice when valuing most assets, if there is understanding of the long-term effects, and obligation to a global position. They counter that the banking issues went beyond failures in accounting and into major liquidity concerns, and that the accounting profession, FASB, and SEC were not responsible for the banking crisis.\n\nA report from the Harvard Business Review agreed that the mark-to-market accounting is not the direct cause of the financial crisis, but the lack of knowledge related to accounting standards by investors fueled the fire. Most investors at the time assumed that all of banks’ assets were appraised at market prices, and that the writing down of bonds would cause banks to violate regulatory capital requirements.\n\nThe FASB issued a proposal regarding \"the use of materiality by reporting entities\" in an amendment of the definition of the legal concept of materiality in 2015, stating that “information would be considered material if it was likely to be seen by a reasonable person as significantly altering the total mix of facts about a company.” This amendment raised concerns by auditors who believed leaving materiality as a legal concept would undermine judgments made by preparers and auditors to an attorney.\n\nHowever, FASB’s inclusion of materiality was designed to facilitate more transparency by instructing greater disclosure by preparers. According to FASB Concepts Statement 8: information is material if omitting or misstating it could influence decisions users make on the basis of the financial information of a specific reporting entity. This guidance is followed by the explanation: “In other words, materiality is an entity-specific aspect of relevance based on the nature or magnitude or both of the items to which the information relates in the context of an individual entity’s financial report.”\n\nSome industry professionals support development of a single, globally-shared set of accounting standards. Convergence proponents assert that a single set of standards would make it easier and more cost-effective for large multi-national corporations to report using one set of financial reporting standards for all countries. They believe it would make financial statements more comparable to one another, improving overall transparency and understanding of a company’s financial health. Supporters also argue that a single set of standards would give investors access to crucial information more quickly and increase opportunities for international investments, resulting in economic growth.\n\nOther professionals, however, are opposed to wholesale convergence of a single set of international accounting standards. Opponents share concerns that, due to different environmental influences around the world, such as differing stages of economic development and sources of funding, independent accounting standards are appropriate and necessary.\n\nConvergence opponents have said that without vision and commitment to convergence, the standards wouldn’t be effective unless they were enforced or provide significant benefits.\n\nMany U.S. accounting firms are opposed to convergence because of the familiarity of GAAP, the unfamiliarity with international accounting principles, and other countries' accounting systems. U.S. firms and other CPAs have been reluctant to adapt and learn a new accounting system, and believe that IFRS lacks guidance compared to the GAAP. CFOs are also against converging to one set of standards, because of the associated cost.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36343448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36343448", "title": "Firas Tlass", "text": "Firas Tlass\n\nFiras Mustafa Tlass (born 20 August 1960) is a Syrian business tycoon and a member of a significant Sunni family who had close relations with former Syrian President Hafez al-Assad, but defected to the rebels during the Syrian Civil War.\n\nFiras Tlass was born in Damascus on 20 August 1960. He is the second eldest child of Mustafa Tlass, a former Syrian Minister of Defense from 1972 to 2004 of Circassian and Turkish origin. Next to the Assad clan, his family was the most famous Sunni family in Syria, known for supporting the government. On the other hand, the members of his family worked for the Ottoman suzerains as well as French occupiers after the First World War. Manaf Tlass, who was a senior military official and defected in July 2012, is his younger brother. \n\nHe attended Ecole Laique in Damascus, graduating in 1978. He studied business administration at Damascus University, graduating with a bachelor of arts degree in economy in 1984. He went to France to study French and obtained a degree in commerce from Paris.\n\nFiras Tlass is described as a business tycoon and Syria's sugar king. He was the second richest person in Syria after Bashar al-Assad's cousin Rami Makhlouf. Firas Tlass was a significant supporter and also, beneficiary of Bashar al-Assad's liberal economy policies over the past decade. He is said to have had the inside track during the privatization process in Syria. It was speculated that Firas Tlass had business relations with Rifaat al-Assad’s sons.\n\nFiras Tlass founded Min Ajl Suriyya (MAS) (“For Syria” in English) in 1984. MAS deals with different commercial activities, ranging from roasting coffee beans to producing metal, canned food, and dairy products. MAS also provided the Syrian army with clothes, food, and medicine. In 2004, Tlass also began to provide financial assistance to the website \"Syria News\" that was owned by the Syrian Economic Center (SEC). In 2010, he launced EFG Hermes Syria with EFG Hermes, the leading Egyptian investment bank in the Arab world. It was reported that EFG Hermes Syria was a partnership between EFG Hermes (70%) and Firas Tlass (30%). Tlass became the chairman of the firm. Additionally, Tlass was the local joint venture partner for French cement company Lafarge. He is also Chairman of Palmyra-SODIC. His other business activity is the Palmyra real estate development company, of which he is the general manager.\n\nFiras Tlass is a former member of the Ba'ath Party. However, in 2005, he and another Baath member, Abdel Nour, argued that they supported multi-party elections and ending the Baath monopoly on power in Syria. Firas Tlass also said that the relations with the US should be better. Until his defection, he and his brother Manaf Tlass were regarded by Bashar al-Assad as peers and friends.\n\nAt the beginning of the 2000s, Israel and the US accused Syria that it enabled Arab mujahideen to percolate weapons through its borders into Iraq, mainly through influential Firas Tlass. In 2003, it was also claimed that Iraq officials sent their banned weapons to Syria via Tlass, who had trade connections with Iraq. Firas was also accused of corruption and of benefiting from the Assad government. \"Forbes\" argued in 2011 that he was among those who got a 5% commission on deals they brokered in Syria.\n\nIn 2012-2014 LafargeHolcim's factory in Jalabiya, northern Syria, continued to operate as the Syrian war raged around it. Factory chief Bruno Pescheux has admitted Lafarge paid up to $100,000 a month to Syrian tycoon Firas Tlass, a former minority shareholder who gave cash to armed factions in order to keep the factory open.\n\nIt was reported by AFP that Firas and his father, former defense minister Mustafa Tlass, arrived in Paris in March 2012. But their move was not seen as a defection. However, there is another report on his defection. It states that Mustafa Tlas and his son, Firas, both left Syria since the revolt against Assad began in 2011. It is added that Mustafa Tlass left for France for what he described as medical treatment, while Firas left Syria for Egypt in 2011. There is another report, indicating that Firas is in Dubai. It is also argued that Firas in France with his father. There is another report, arguing that Firas travels between the United Arab Emirates and France. His younger brother Manaf Tlass, a Syrian officer, defected from the Assad government and fled to Turkey and on 6 July 2012, he went to France from Turkey. \n\nOn 26 July 2012, Firas Tlass expressed his support for Bashar Al-Assad’s resignation. He further declared that he had provided the Farouq Brigades in the Free Syrian Army, commanded by his cousin Abdul Razzak Tlass, with the humanitarian and relief aid. On 8 March 2013, he told Al Arabiya that Syria had had secret business deals with Israel.\n\nTlass married Rania Al Jabiri in 1984. She hails from a prominent Sunni family based in Aleppo and part of the Aleppine upper class. They have five children: Yara (born 1989), Mira and Lara (twins born 1991), Yasmine (born 1998) and Mustafa (born 2000).\n"}
{"id": "915891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=915891", "title": "Gary Hall Sr.", "text": "Gary Hall Sr.\n\nGary Wayne Hall, Sr. (born August 7, 1951) is an American former competition swimmer, three-time Olympic medalist, and former world record-holder in five events.\n\nHall attended Indiana University, where he swam for the Indiana Hoosiers swimming and diving team under coach Doc Counsilman. As a college swimmer, he specialized in the individual medley. Hall was elected captain of the Hoosiers swimming team in his senior year. In academics, Hall excelled in the classroom and was consistently cited by the NCAA as an outstanding example of student-athlete. He was accepted for medical school at the University of Cincinnati. He later became an ophthalmologist, and practiced in Phoenix, Arizona.\n\nHall first represented the United States in the 1968 Summer Olympics held in Mexico City, Mexico, where he won a silver medal for his second-place finish in the men's 400-meter individual medley. Two years later he broke the world record in the 200-meter butterfly.\n\nHall made it a point to vigorously exercise in the swimming pool after daily med school classes. His wife, the former Mary Keating, being from a swimming family, understood his love of the water.\n\nAt the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, Germany, he earned a silver medal in the men's 200-meter butterfly. His final Olympic appearance was at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, Canada, capping his Olympic career with a bronze medal in the men's 100-meter butterfly. At the end of the Montreal Olympics, his fellow American athletes from all sports disciplines, chose him to be the U.S. flagbearer in the closing ceremony.\n\nHall graduated from the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, located in Cincinnati, Ohio. He practiced as Dr. Gary Hall, MD as an ophthalmologist in Phoenix, Arizona at the Gary Hall Lasik Center. Common conditions he treated in Ophthalmology included Macular degeneration and Cataracts. In 2005, following a series of medical errors and reprimands dating back to 1996, the Arizona Medical Board permanently banned Dr. Hall performing or assisting in any surgery. He was placed on a five-year probation, but allowed to keep his medical license. In 2009, he was stripped of his medical license when he was unable to pay a fine after he was found performing surgery.\n\nIn 1981, Hall was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame as an \"Honor Swimmer.\" Later on, he also became a local celebrity in Phoenix, as an ophthalmologist – appearing in his office's television ads and billboard campaigns.\n\nHis son Gary Hall Jr. has become a famous Olympic swimmer as well, starting in the Atlanta 1996 Olympic Games, getting various gold medals at the 2000 Olympics in Sydney, Australia. With his son's participation at the 2004 Olympics in Athens, Greece, the Halls became the first father-and-son pair to make three Olympic appearances.\n\nGary Hall Sr. currently lives in Florida and operates The Race Club summer swimming camps. The Race Club is a swimming club founded by Gary Hall Jr. and his father Gary Hall Sr. The swimming club, originally known as \"The World Team,\" was designed to serve as a swimming training group for elite swimmers across the world in preparation for the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games. To be able to train with The Race Club, one must either have been ranked in the top 20 in the world the past 3 calendar years or top 3 in their nation in the past year. The Race Club included such well known swimmers as Roland Mark Schoeman, Mark Foster, Ryk Neethling, Milorad Čavić and Therese Alshammar. They were coached by University of Michigan coach Mike Bottom.\n\nThe Race Club provides facilities, swimming techniques coaching, swimming training programs, technical instruction, swimming technique videos, fitness and health programs for swimmers of all ages and abilities. The Race Club summer swim camps are designed and tailored to satisfy each swimmer's needs, whether one is trying to reach the Olympic Games or simply improve one's swimming techniques. The swimming camps programs are suitable for beginner swimmers, pleasure swimmers, fitness swimmers, USA swimming or YMCA swimmers, or triathletes; anyone who wants to improve swimming skills.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1838138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1838138", "title": "General counsel", "text": "General counsel\n\nA general counsel, chief counsel, or chief legal officer (CLO) is the chief lawyer of a legal department, usually in a company or a governmental department.\n\nIn a company, the person holding the position typically reports directly to the CEO, and their duties involve overseeing and identifying the legal issues in all departments and their interrelation, including engineering, design, marketing, sales, distribution, credit, finance, human resources and production, as well as corporate governance and business policy. This would naturally require in most cases reporting directly to the owner or CEO overseeing the very business on which the CLO is expected to be familiar with and advise on the most confidential level. This requires the CLO/general counsel to work closely with each of the other officers, and their departments, to appropriately be aware and advise.\n\nHistorically, general counsel often handled administrative tasks while outside lawyers in private practice handled more complex legal work. Since the 1980s, however, the general counsel position has become increasingly prominent in multinational companies, often directly advising the board of directors in place of outside lawyers. General counsel are now often among the most highly paid executives of major American corporations, and prominent American government lawyers and law firm partners are often hired for general counsel roles at prominent companies. Similar trends are also being seen in the United Kingdom and other countries.\n\nGeneral counsel often have broad roles encompassing crisis management, compliance reporting management and public policy advocacy. Many companies also hire in-house counsel to handle specialized tasks such as tax work, mergers and acquisitions, labor law and intellectual property, sometimes building in-house practice groups that rival the practices of major law firms.\n\nThe Association of Corporate Counsel (\"ACC\") has 35,000 general counsel, chief legal officer and other in-house counsel members located in 90 countries. ACC was founded as the American Corporate Counsel Association in 1982 and now includes more than 55 chapters, including in Argentina, Canada (four chapters), Europe, Israel, the Middle East and Singapore. Members have access to networking opportunities and education events through their regional chapter affiliations as well as global connections across practice area, job title and industry. ACC provides members with resources to deliver services and advice to their companies, promotes the value of in-house legal services and advocates on behalf of general counsel. For its general counsel and chief legal officer members, ACC hosts roundtables where members discuss current practice trends and issues.\n\nThe Forum is an association of 700 general counsel and senior managing counsel. The non-profit organization was founded in the fall of 1998 as the Dallas-Fort Worth General Counsel’s Management Practices Forum (“DFWGCMPF”). The association is a partnership between in-house members and outside counsel, known as underwriters. Members are general counsel and managing counsel of corporations, non-profit organizations and government agencies. The mission of the Forum is to improve the professional lives of general counsel and managing counsel through meaningful opportunities for peer-to-peer interaction and knowledge exchange, mentoring through professional development in legal best practices, ethics, governance, and compliance. In November 2000, the DFWGCMPF changed its name to The Texas General Counsel Forum, also known as The Forum, and in the following year the Houston Chapter was formed, and then the Austin-San Antonio Chapter was founded. In July 2005, the Forum hired a Chief Executive Officer with the mandate to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the organization, expand membership, and launch the organization nationally. In November 2009, the Board of Directors approved expanding the Forum nationally, and dropped the reference to Texas, becoming simply The General Counsel Forum. In the fall of 2012, the General Counsel Forum founded the Chicago Chapter.\n\nThe Silicon Valley Association of General Counsel (SVAGC) is a business league of chief legal officers from over 100 leading companies in the technology and life science sectors. Member companies include publicly traded corporations, private ventures and multinational subsidiaries located throughout the San Francisco Bay Area with operations in software, electronics, power technology, biotechnology, medical devices, health informatics, analytics, materials science, cleantech, fintech, telecommunications, network infrastructure, e-commerce and Internet services, artificial intelligence and machine learning.\n\nThe SVAGC hosts a series of monthly luncheons featuring expert presentations and off-the-record discussion about topics of professional interest. It also assists members who wish to survey their peers or pose questions on particular issues, and cooperates in special projects such as the \"All Hands Meeting\", an annual multi-track conference at the Santa Clara Convention Center, attended by general and staff counsel from hundreds of member and nonmember legal departments in the technology and life science sectors.\n\nThe SVAGC is a successor to the Peninsula Association of General Counsel (PAGC), formed in the early 1980s. In 2003, the SVAGC was formally organized as a California mutual benefit nonprofit corporation with the assistance of Ivy Associates, a consultancy to the Silicon Valley legal community that provides organizational support for the SVAGC and produces the All Hands Meeting. Only SVAGC members, speakers and invited guests may attend monthly luncheons, which are funded by modest membership dues. Individuals may join the SVAGC when they are the chief legal officer of a company with operations in Northern California that is publicly traded or which meets alternative criteria for private companies. Some SVAGC members serve as general counsel for companies headquartered outside Northern California, and attend meetings when business travel brings them into the SF Bay Area.\n\nIn the United Kingdom a group of general counsel, called the GC100, was officially launched on 9 March 2005 and brings together the senior legal officers of more than eighty five FTSE 100 companies. The GC100 group was created in response to the increasing volume and complexity of domestic and international law and regulation which impacts on UK listed companies. The group was formed with the support of Practical Law Company which acts as its secretariat.\n\nThe main objectives of the GC100 are to:\n\n\nMembership of the GC100 is by invitation only. At the AGM on the 16 January 2007 members voted in favour of extending membership to company secretaries as well as general counsel in the FTSE 100. The formal name of the GC100 is now \"The Association of General Counsel and Company Secretaries of the FTSE100\", although it will continue to be known as the GC100.\n\nMark Harding, the first chair of the GC100, has stated that the GC100 is not a campaigning body, although they work closely with the FD100 (a similar grouping of blue chip finance directors).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23462050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23462050", "title": "Government Performance Coalition", "text": "Government Performance Coalition\n\nThe Government Performance Coalition was created in 1999 by a group of organizations and researchers with the goal of presenting the President of the United States, government managers, Congress, the media, and the public views on the improvement of government management. The coalition maintains that it seeks to ensure a continued focus and attention to performance and management issues and to identify existing issues that need new attention, and refine past efforts and highlight related governance policies that affect performance. The Coalition, comprising nearly two dozen organizations, meets regularly in Washington, D.C. to serve as a clearinghouse for its individual members’ respective agendas regarding government management improvement. During presidential election years, the Coalition sponsors events to highlight the importance of good government management issues in the campaign and to prepare materials that would be helpful to the winning candidate’s incoming political appointees.\n\nThe Coalition was initially formed to develop resource materials to support the eventual winner of the 2000 presidential campaign. In that effort, it sponsored a series of forums on key management issues, such as human capital, financial management, and performance management. These forums and associated recommendations were compiled into a report given to the incoming administration for President George W. Bush. In a memorandum dated December 20, 2000, the coalition identified critical issues that require new policy directions such as the high-risk areas in the General Accounting Office (e.g. FAA, DOD financial management, Medicare, HUD, student aid, superfund, NASA). Many of the recommendations were subsequently used to frame his President's Management Agenda. \n\nIn 2008, the Coalition members, both individually and collectively, sponsored a series of forums in 2008 with recommendations to the incoming Obama Administration to place an appropriate emphasis on performance. It recommended three broad initiatives: 1) implement a performance-based framework at agencies; 2) invest more in federal human resources; and, 3) mandate the use of innovation and technology to revolutionize government. Barack Obama’s fiscal year 2010 budget has a section titled “Building a High-Performance Government,” with its first item being “Putting Performance First.”\n\nThe Coalition members jointly sponsored the publication of a book as part of the 2004 presidential transition. That book, “Getting Results: A Guide for Federal Leaders and Managers” was an orientation guide provided to incoming political appointees to help them be successful managers in the federal government. The coalition, through the Performance Institute, also trains thousands of government managers every year on performance-based topics as well as methodologies and best practices for transparency and citizen services. \n\nA February 2009 article in Government Executive magazine described the Coalition as “An unfunded organization with no professional staff, the coalition is run through the volunteer efforts of good government group leaders. Early in the Bush administration, the coalition received some funding for a joint book project on performance management advice, but it now operates primarily as a clearinghouse for its member organizations' efforts.” The article continues: “The loose structure isn't just a vehicle for agreement at the coalition. It's a requirement. Because of the variety of governance structures among the member groups, it's impossible for them all to commit to a concerted lobbying campaign or even formally endorse a program.”\n\nThe members of Government Performance Coalition include: American Society for Public Administration, Association of Government Accountants, Cisco Internet Business Solutions Group, The Public Sector Consortium, CNA Corporation, Coalition for Effective Change, Trachtenberg School of Public Policy and Public Administration at George Washington University, Grant Thornton, IBM Center for The Business of Government, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, American University Institute for the Study of Policy Implementation, Management Concepts, Mercatus Center at George Mason University, National Academy of Public Administration (United States), Partnership for Public Service, The Performance Institute, and Senior Executives Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4233926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4233926", "title": "International Association for Technology Trade", "text": "International Association for Technology Trade\n\nThe International Association for Technology Trade (IATT) is a consortium of technology organizations, strategic advisors, government agencies and corporate members seeking to generate successful global business opportunities – with a key focus on China and emerging economies. IATT runs ongoing trade missions to developing regions, sponsors and co-promotes conferences and symposia, and provides strategic services to companies entering and expanding into emerging markets.\n\nIn June 2006, IATT hosted a high-level delegation from the Guangdong Province Department of Education, visiting North America at summit meetings arranged by IATT in Toronto, ON; Washington, DC and San Jose, CA. Highlights included meetings with representatives from Discovery Communications, the Oracle Education Foundation and Adobe Systems among other ISTE 100 companies. ISTE was a co-organizer of the summit, designed to introduce leading educational technology companies in North America to potential buyers in China.\n\nEfforts in 2005 to forge a partnership with the Patent Protection Association of China (PPAC) under the direction of China’s State Intellectual Property Office (SIPO) resulted in the first-ever \"Sino-American Forum of Intellectual Property Rights\", held in China’s booming Pearl River Delta. Attracting more than 500 government officials, business leaders and academics from throughout China and North America, IATT and PPAC co-organized the event.\n\n“IP continues to be a critical issue between China and the West, but what is especially exciting about this forum is the growing importance Chinese business leaders place on their own intellectual property. SIPO is racing toward half-a-million patent applications in 2005, 80% filed domestically – and the greatest number coming from the Pearl River Delta. Ultimately, Chinese business’ urging of the central government to protect IP rights will make a difference, because now it’s in everyone’s best interests.” (David McKnight, IATT president – speaking with a reporter from CCTV-9 in China, October 2005)\n\nDuring the same timeframe, and with its EdTech association partner ISTE, IATT co-organized what was identified as the world's largest educational technology conference and expo in Dongguan, attracting nearly 40,000 attendees in its first year with leading EdTech speakers and a small number of non-China exhibitors from the US, Canada and UK.\n"}
{"id": "39667183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39667183", "title": "J. Keith Murnighan", "text": "J. Keith Murnighan\n\nJohn Keith Murnighan \"Keith\" was an American social scientist and author, born on November 23, 1948 in Evanston, Illinois. He died of colon cancer on June 3, 2016 in Evanston, Illinois. He was the Harold H. Hines Jr. Distinguished Professor of Risk Management at the Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University, where he taught from 1996-2016. His areas of expertise included: Leadership, Negotiations, Ethics, Individual and Group Decision-Making, Group Dynamics, Teams, Psychology, Auctions, Diversity, and Trust.\n\nProfessor Murnighan earned his Ph.D. (1974) and MS degrees (1972) in social psychology and a BS in psychology (1970) from Purdue University. Prior to joining Kellogg, he taught at the University of Illinois and the University of British Columbia. He also earned an MFA in Photography from the University of Illinois.\n\nHe was the father to five children: Jack Murnighan (b 1969), Erik Murnighan (b 1972), Kate Keegan-Cook (b 1987), Annie Murnighan (b 1995) and William Murnighan (b 1999). His first marriage to Marilyn Becker ended in divorce. He married Elizabeth Keegan in 1991 in Urbana, Illinois.\n\nProfessor Murnighan's research has been published in many different academic journals, primarily in organizational behavior, psychology, and economics. He has published seven books, most recently \"Do Nothing! How to Stop Overmanaging and Become a Great Leader\", released in June 2012 by Portfolio/Penguin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45567825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45567825", "title": "Jamshid Gharajedaghi", "text": "Jamshid Gharajedaghi\n\nJamshid Gharajedaghi (, born c. 1940) is an Iranian-American organizational theorist, management consultant, and Adjunct Professor of Systems thinking at Villanova University. He is known for his work of systems thinking, managing complexity, and business architecture.\n\nWhile in Iran, Gharajedaghi headed Industrial Management Institute (IMI) and was a member of board of trustees for Azad University, Iran from 1976 to 1979. He has two children,\nJeyran and Marjan Gharajedaghi, the later with two children Nader (5/25/01) and Leyli Granmayeh (11/03/02).\n\nGharajedaghi obtained his BA in Systems Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley in 1963.\n\nAfter his graduation in 1963 Gharajedaghi started his career as Systems Engineer for the IBM World Trade Corporation. From 1969 to 1979 he was Managing Director of the Industrial management Institute, and from 1977 to 1987 Director of Bush Research Center, and Adjunct Professor of Systems at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Since 1987 he is managing director at the Interact, Institute for interactive design, and since 1999 Adjunct Professor of Systems thinking at the Villanova University School of Business.\n\nGharajedaghi's research interests has evolved from his \"early training in information systems ... to operations research, behavioral sciences, and finally, for the last 25 years to the development design thinking as the third generation of systems thinking.\"\n\nIn the 1988 article \"Mechanisms, organisms and social systems\" Gharajedaghi and Ackoff argue, that there is a fundamental flaw in the traditional way to think about social systems. They argued:\n\nTo think about anything requires an image or concept of it, a model. To think about a thing as complex as a social system most people use a model of something similar, simpler and more familiar. Traditionally, two types of models have been used in efforts to acquire information, knowledge and understanding of social systems: mechanistic and organismic. But, in a world of accelerating change, increasing uncertainty and growing complexity, it is becoming apparent that these are inadequate as guides to decision and action. The growing number of social crises and dilemmas that we face should be clear evidence that something is fundamentally wrong with the way we think about social systems.\n\nIn their paper they have tried to describe and explain \n\nthe deficiencies of the two traditional ways of thinking about social systems. We then develop a third type of model, one we believe does not suffer from these inadequacies, a social system model which seeks to penetrate beyond the nature of machine and organisms to understand social systems in their own right.\n\nGharajedaghi present his work as third generation of systems thinking. In the first chapter of his 1999 book \"Systems thinking\" he explains his point of view: \n\nThe analytical approach has remained essentially intact for nearly four hundred years, but systems thinking has already gone through three distinct generations of change. The first generation of systems thinking (operations research) dealt with the challenge of interdependency in the context of mechanical (deterministic) systems. The second generation of systems thinking (cybernetics and open systems) dealt with the dual challenges of interdependency and self-organization (neg-entropy)4 in the context of living systems. The third generation of systems thinking (design) responds to the triple challenge of interdependency, self-organization, and choice in the context of sociocultural systems.\n\nIn the 1990s the information age was unfolding changing the global market economy. With the businesses adapting, the new concept of business architecture was presented as promising alternative. Gharajedaghi (1999) explained the context:\n\nIn a global market economy with ever-increasing levels of disturbance, a viable business can no longer be locked into a single form or function. Success comes from a self-renewing capability to spontaneously create structures and functions that fit the moment. In this context, proper functioning of self-reference would certainly prevent the vacillations and the random search for new products/markets that have, over the past years, destroyed so many businesses.<br>In fact, the ability to continuously match the portfolio of internal competencies with the portfolio of emerging market opportunities is the foundation of the emerging concept of new business architecture ...\n\nAccording to Bodine and Hilty (2009) \"important advances in this area borrowed from the operations discipline came in 1993 in the form of Michael Hammer and James Champy's book \"Reengineering the Corporation\", which introduced tools for mapping and optimizing business activities using process modeling. The Balanced Scorecard developed by Robert Kaplan and David Norton at about the same time enabled the business to measure overall corporate success against goals on qualitative as well as quantitative dimensions.\"\n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "45341461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45341461", "title": "Jean Boinebroke of Douai", "text": "Jean Boinebroke of Douai\n\nJehan Boinebroke († 1286 in Douai) was a French merchant from Douai, and 'undoubtedly the most famous merchant-draper \"capitalist\" to be found in medieval western Europe'.\n\nBoinebroke was nine times alderman (\"échevin\") of his city and accumulated in the course of his life a considerable fortune. He had wool imported from England to Douai and had peasant women spin it into yarn. He also developed a dying factory. He made his workers live in its houses at inflated rents. Already in 1245 he faced a riot by artisans and workers in Douai. In 1280 there was again unrest, which extended from Ypres to Tournai and Douai, but in Douai Boinebroke overcame the rebellion.\n\nIn his will Boinebroke decreed that the executor should first pay his debts and make up for all the wrong caused by him before his property should go to his four children. When he died in 1286 at Douai, published numerous individuals that submitted their complaints. The complaints grew into a 5.5 m long parchment.\n\nModern historians, in the tradition of Karl Marx, have often viewed Boinebroke's business activity as an early example capitalist exploitation of his workers. However, in the assessment of John H. Munro,\n\n"}
{"id": "47390713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47390713", "title": "Jesse W. Markham", "text": "Jesse W. Markham\n\nJesse William Markham (April 16, 1916 – June 21, 2009) was an American economist. Markham was best known for his work on antitrust policy, price theory and industrial organization. Markham was the Charles Edward Wilson Professor of Business Administration at Harvard Business School (HBS), and the former chief economist to the Federal Trade Commission.\n\nMarkham was born in Sharps, Virginia. Markham attended the University of Richmond, where he played baseball. In 1941, he earned an undergraduate degree in economics and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. After graduating from Richmond, he began graduate school in economics that fall at Johns Hopkins University.\n\nIn 1942, Markham enlisted in World War II where he served as an officer in the U.S. Navy for three years. Markham served in the Atlantic theater on the , which was the heavy cruiser acting as the flagship for the Normandy invasion, where he saw combat from the first attack on D-Day.\n\nAfter the War, Markham began studies at Harvard University, and earned a master's degree in 1947 and a Ph.D. in 1949 in economics.\n\nIn 1948, Markham began his career as an associate professor at Vanderbilt University where he worked until 1952.\n\nIn 1953, the Federal Trade Commission selected Markham to be the FTC's chief economist. Markham recalled: \"At a time when Congress had passed an act putting arbitrary constraints on corporate mergers, the Eisenhower administration saw me as a voice in favor of a standard of workable, as opposed to perfect, competition. I could advocate the benefits of letting certain firms work together to foster innovation, which buyers value just as much as temporary price advantages - the traditional yardstick of competitiveness.\" Markham left the FTC in 1955.\n\nIn 1964, Markham wrote an article for the Columbia Law Review entitled \"The Federal Trade Commission's Use of Economics.\" Markham criticized the FTC for relying on oversimplified rules of thumb, instead of the tedious analysis Congress seemed to have in mind as one of the agency's principal functions.\n\nIn 2003, Markham returned to the FTC to comment on economists’ role in antitrust during the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nFrom 1955 until 1968, Markham was Professor of Economics at Princeton University, but visited as a professor in the Harvard economics department and at the Harvard Business School. In 1958, Markham served as an economic delegate for the European Common Market (now the OEEC). Markham was Dennis Mueller's thesis advisor at Princeton.\n\nIn 1968, Markham accepted George P. Baker's invitation to serve as Harvard Business School's Charles E. Wilson Professor of Business Administration. While at HBS, Markham worked alongside Paul Samuelson, the first American Nobel laureate in economics. In 1974, he served as a Commissioner on the Federal Trade Commission.\n\nMarkham retired from HBS in 1982, but continued to teach at the Harvard Extension School and at Emory University at the Carter Center. In 1989, he served as a People to People Diplomacy Mission Delegate to the USSR.\n\nMarkham was a part-time resident of Longboat Key, Florida. Markham married Penelope Anton in 1944, and they had three children: Elizabeth (Betsy) McLean, John James Emanuel, II, and Jesse William, Jr.\n\n"}
{"id": "33574143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33574143", "title": "Joe Ellis", "text": "Joe Ellis\n\nJosiah Wear \"Joe\" Ellis (born November 16, 1958) is an American football administrator who is currently the President and CEO of the Denver Broncos of the National Football League (NFL).\n\nEllis received his bachelor's degree from Colorado College in 1980. He attended graduate school at the L. Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University to obtain his Master's Degree. Joe graduated from Northwestern in 1988.\n\nEllis began his career in the NFL with the Denver Broncos as their Director of Marketing from 1983 to 1985. After obtaining his masters degree, he served the league as Vice President of Club Administration and Stadium Management until rejoining the Broncos in 1998 as their Executive Vice President of Business Operations. Joe acted in this capacity for 10 years. In 2008 Joe became the team's Chief Operating Officer. He maintained this position for 3 seasons, until January 5, 2011. After 13 years with the Denver Broncos organization, he was elevated to the position of President of the Denver Broncos. After owner and previous president Pat Bowlen was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, Ellis took control.\n\nEllis lives in Denver, Colorado, with his wife, Ann. They have three children: two sons, Si and Zander, and a daughter, Catherine. He is also a member of the Bush family through his mother Nancy Walker Bush Ellis, as well as the nephew of former President George H. W. Bush and first cousin of former President George W. Bush and cousin to Billy Bush of \"Access Hollywood\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7482731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7482731", "title": "Jon Ramon Aboitiz", "text": "Jon Ramon Aboitiz\n\nJon Ramon Melendez Aboitiz (April 26, 1948 – November 30, 2018) was a Spanish Filipino businessman, and the president of the Aboitiz & Company and Aboitiz Equity Ventures, part of the Aboitiz Group.\nHe started with the Aboitiz Group in 1970, after graduating from the University of Santa Clara, California with a B.S. Commerce, major in Management. From a manager he became its president in 1976 and in 1991 became president of Aboitiz & Co. of the Aboitiz Shipping Corp.\n\nHe held various positions in the Aboitiz Group, including chairman and chief executive officer (CEO) of Davao Light & Power Co., Inc., chairman of Veco and Aboitiz Jebsen Bulk Transport Corp., and director of Hapag-Lloyd Phils., Cotabato Ice Plant Inc. and Bukidnon Hydropower Corp.\n\nAboitiz also served as trustee of the Ramon Aboitiz Foundation Inc., the Aboitiz Group Foundation Inc. and the Association of Philippine Foundations, and was a member of the Board of Advisors, Washington Sycip Policy Forum at the Asian Institute of Management.\n\n"}
{"id": "42867909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42867909", "title": "Joseph-Claver Casavant", "text": "Joseph-Claver Casavant\n\nJoseph Claver Casavant (1855 − 10 December 1933) was a Canadian organ builder. He was born in Quebec; his father, Joseph Casavant, was the founder of the organ-manufacturing firm of Casavant Frères. He served an apprenticeship with his father and then went to Europe with his brother, to study organ manufacturing, returning in 1880. He married Evelina Pappineau that year. He was made a Commander of the Order of Gregory the Great in 1925, and died in St. Hyacinthe, Quebec, on 10 December 1933.\n"}
{"id": "54071918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54071918", "title": "Memorandum of conversation", "text": "Memorandum of conversation\n\nMemorandum of conversation (abbrev.: MEMCON) and also memorandum of a conversation and memo to the file refers to a method of contemporaneous documentation of a conversation in the form of a memorandum used by the United States federal government.\n\n\"The Weekly Standard\" characterized the use of the tactic in the U.S. government as among \"the most basic ways of Washington\".\n\nTypically an individual will document the events of the conversation as soon as possible after the occurrence. All material statements and discussed items are quoted and described as accurately as possible soon after the discussion and filed for future reference. Memcons function as documentation of historical events, such as conversations between heads of state and law enforcement officials. Specific developments discussed, the time of the meeting, location, and individuals in attendance are all documented in-depth within the memo.\n\nUnited States Department of Justice attorneys and Federal Bureau of Investigation special agents commonly make use of memoranda of conversation. A majority of intermediate-rank managerial staff and bureaucrats within the U.S. federal government consistently make use of the method. The creation of a memorandum of understanding allows federal employees to memorialize and keep a record of their conversations and transactions.\n\nMemoranda to file are used in investigations in the private sector. For example, the fraud unit of a large corporation may use memoranda to file, to report individual interviews and significant telephone conversations. Generally, \"the memorandum will show the name of the author, date of preparation, the case name or number, and the specific subject covered. It will also contain the detailed narrative of the event, interview, or other investigative activity described and should be written as close in time as circumstances permit to those events.\"\n\nFormer Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and subsequently Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, Brent Scowcroft, who served as such in the U.S. presidential administration of Gerald R. Ford, kept copious documentation of his meetings in the form of memorandum of conversation. He would take handwritten notes, and immediately have them transcribed in typewritten format with the assistance of his staff from the United States National Security Council. The Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library and Museum contains over 1,000 such memorandum of conversation documents relating to the Presidency of Richard Nixon and Presidency of Gerald Ford, mainly related to national security of the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "3346980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3346980", "title": "Michael Lewis", "text": "Michael Lewis\n\nMichael Monroe Lewis (born October 15, 1960) is an American financial journalist and bestselling non-fiction author. He has also been a contributing editor to \"Vanity Fair\" since 2009.\n\nLewis was born in New Orleans, the son of corporate lawyer J. Thomas Lewis and community activist Diana Monroe Lewis. He attended Princeton University where he earned a cum laude bachelor's degree in art history in 1982 and was a member of the Ivy Club. He went on to work with New York City art dealer Daniel Wildenstein for a short while. In an interview with Charlie Rose, Lewis shared that his initial ambition was to become an art historian, but was quickly dissuaded once he realized that there were no jobs available for art historians and even the handful would not pay much.\n\nLewis subsequently enrolled at the London School of Economics and received an MA in economics in 1985. Lewis was hired by Salomon Brothers, stayed for a while in New York for their training program and then relocated to London where he worked at Salomon's London office as a bond salesman for a few years.\n\nLewis described his experiences at Salomon and the evolution of the mortgage-backed bond in \"Liar's Poker\" (1989). In \"The New New Thing\" (1999), he investigated the then-booming Silicon Valley and discussed obsession with innovation. Four years later, Lewis wrote \"Moneyball\", in which he investigated the success of Billy Beane and the Oakland A's. In August 2007, he wrote an article about catastrophe bonds entitled \"In Nature's Casino\" that appeared in \"The New York Times Magazine\".\n\nLewis has worked for \"The Spectator\", \"The New York Times Magazine\", as a columnist for Bloomberg, as a senior editor and campaign correspondent to \"The New Republic\", and a visiting fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. He wrote the \"Dad Again\" column for \"Slate\". Lewis worked for Conde Nast Portfolio but in February 2009 left to join \"Vanity Fair\", where he became a contributing editor.\n\nIn September 2011, after the successful release of the film adaptation of his book \"Moneyball\", it was reported that Lewis planned to take on \"a much more active role in the what could be the next film based on one of his books\" and would start writing a script for a \"Liar's Poker\" film.\n\nIn 2013, in \"Vanity Fair\", Lewis wrote on the injustice of the prosecution of ex-Goldman Sachs programmer Sergey Aleynikov, who is given an entire chapter in \"Flash Boys\". \"Flash Boys\", which looked at high-frequency trading of Wall Street and other markets, was released in March 2014.\n\nIn 2018, Lewis wrote and narrated, \"The Coming Storm\" for Audible Studios, who released the short non-fiction story as part of their new Audible Originals series of audio books.\n\nA best-selling author, Lewis has drawn both supporters and vocal detractors. In a review of \"Moneyball\", Dan Ackman of \"Forbes\" said that Lewis had a special talent: \"He can walk into an area already mined by hundreds of writers and find gems there all along but somehow missed by his predecessors\". A \"New York Times\" piece said that \"no one writes with more narrative panache about money and finance than Mr. Lewis\", praising his ability to use his subject's stories to show the problems with the systems around them.\n\nLewis has been criticized for writing a 2007 article in \"Bloomberg\" criticizing economists at the World Economic Forum for expressing views on how the world wasn't pricing risk appropriately.\n\nCritics from outside the financial industry have also criticized Lewis for what they consider to be inaccuracies in his writing. In a 2011 column in \"The Atlantic\", American journalist and sports author Allen Barra takes issue with Lewis's characterization of Major League Baseball in his 2003 book \"Moneyball\". Barra writes: \"From a historical standpoint, Lewis is, well, way off base. By the end of the 20th century baseball had achieved a greater level of competitive balance than at any time in the game's history... \"Moneyball\" doesn't just get the state of present-day baseball wrong; it also misrepresents the history of the sport.\"\n\nLewis's \"\" ignited a new round of controversy surrounding high-frequency trading. At a House Financial Services Committee hearing in April 2014, Mary Jo White, former Wall Street insider (as a Debevoise & Plimpton litigations lawyer primarily for Wall Street financial firms), who later served as the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chair, denied the theme of Lewis's book, stating that \"The markets are not rigged.\" One month later, in June 2014, White announced that the SEC would undergo a new round of regulatory review in response to concerns about dark pools and market structure.\n\nLewis's \"The Undoing Project\" was widely praised by book critics, with Glenn C. Altschuler arguing in the \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" that it \"may well be his best book.\"\n\nLewis has been married three times. He was married to Diane de Cordova Lewis and then to former CNBC correspondent Kate Bohner. He married former MTV reporter Tabitha Soren on October 4, 1997. He and Soren have two daughters and one son. They reside in Berkeley, California. Lewis is an atheist.\n\nAll books published by W. W. Norton & Company, New York, unless otherwise noted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "496494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=496494", "title": "Morehead Planetarium and Science Center", "text": "Morehead Planetarium and Science Center\n\nMorehead Planetarium and Science Center is located on the campus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. It is one of the oldest and largest planetariums in the United States having welcomed more than 7 million visitors by its 60th anniversary in 2009. As a unit of the university, Morehead receives about one-third of its funding through state sources, one-third through ticket and gift sales, and one-third through gifts and grants.\n\nFirst opened in 1949, the planetarium was used to train Gemini and Apollo program astronauts in celestial navigation. Until the late 1990s, it contained one of the largest working Copernican orreries in the world. The facility was donated to the university by alumnus John Motley Morehead III who invested more than $3 million in the facility.\n\nMorehead Planetarium opened on May 10, 1949 after seventeen months of construction. The first planetarium in the South, it was the sixth to be built in the United States. Designed by the same architects who planned the Jefferson Memorial, the cost of its construction, more than $23,000,000 in today’s dollars, made it the most expensive building ever built in North Carolina at the time. Morehead Planetarium was officially dedicated during a ceremony held on May 10, 1949.\n\nSince Zeiss, the German firm that produced planetarium projectors, had lost most of its factories during World War II, there were very few projectors available at the time. Morehead had to travel to Sweden, where he had previously served as American ambassador, to purchase a Zeiss Model II to serve as the heart of North Carolina’s new planetarium.\n\n\"Let There Be Light\" was the planetarium's first show.\n\nFrom 1959 through 1975 every astronaut in the Mercury, Gemini, Apollo, Skylab, and Apollo–Soyuz Test Project programs spent hours in celestial navigation training at the planetarium. Morehead technicians developed simplified replicas of flight modules and tools for use in the training, often from plywood or cardboard. A mockup simulating key parts of the Gemini capsule was constructed from plywood and mounted on a barber chair to enable changes in pitch and yaw. Several of these items are on display at the planetarium. That training may have helped save astronauts' lives on occasion. Astronauts aboard Apollo 12 called upon that training after their Saturn V rocket was hit by lightning twice during ascent, knocking spacecraft systems offline and requiring them to configure navigation systems based on fixes taken manually. Gordon Cooper used his training to make the most accurate landing of Project Mercury after a power failure affected navigational systems. Astronauts enjoyed soft drinks, cookies and other snacks during their intense hours-long training session, leading planetarium employees to create the code name \"cookie time\" to refer to the training sessions. Occasionally, word of the sessions leaked out and noted clothing designer and Chapel Hill native Alexander Julian recalls meeting Mercury Astronauts during a visit to the planetarium while in junior high.\n\nThe first astronaut to train at Morehead, in March 1964, was Neil Armstrong. Armstrong visited again only months before the 1969 launch of Apollo 11, spending a total of 20 days at Morehead over 11 training sessions, more than any other astronaut. Astronauts commented that the \"large dome\" was \"highly realistic\", calling the facility \"superb\".\n\nIn all, the astronauts who trained at the planetarium were Buzz Aldrin, Joseph P. Allen, William Anders, Neil Armstrong, Charles Bassett, Alan Bean, Frank Borman, Vance D. Brand, John S. Bull, Scott Carpenter, Gerald P. Carr, Eugene Cernan, Roger B. Chaffee, Philip K. Chapman, Michael Collins, Pete Conrad, Gordon Cooper, Walter Cunningham, Charles Duke, Donn F. Eisele, Anthony W. England, Joe Engle, Ronald E. Evans, Theodore Freeman, Edward Givens, John Glenn, Richard F. Gordon Jr., Gus Grissom, Fred Haise, Karl Gordon Henize, James Irwin, Joseph P. Kerwin, William B. Lenoir, Don L. Lind, Anthony Llewellyn, Jack R. Lousma, Jim Lovell, Ken Mattingly, Bruce McCandless II, James McDivitt, Curt Michel, Edgar Mitchell, Story Musgrave, Brian O'Leary, Robert A. Parker, William R. Pogue, Stuart Roosa, Wally Schirra, Rusty Schweickart, David Scott, Elliot See, Alan Shepard, Deke Slayton, Thomas P. Stafford, Jack Swigert, William E. Thornton, Paul J. Weitz, Ed White, Clifton Williams, Alfred M. Worden, and John Young.\n\nMorehead's planetarium seats about 240 people, with a dome that is in diameter and tall. It currently boasts two different projection systems.\n\nIn February 2010, Morehead introduced its new fulldome digital video (FDV) projection system, the largest FDV installation in the southeastern United States. The new system provides super-high-definition image resolution, 5.1 surround sound and a uniquely immersive planetarium experience. Funding for the new system was provided by GlaxoSmithKline, and the planetarium's star theater is now named the GlaxoSmithKline Fulldome Theater.\n\nMorehead's historic star projector, a Carl Zeiss Model VI, was installed in 1969 and remained in limited use as of April 2011, primarily for field trip groups. This projector displays about 8,900 different stars on the dome overhead. The analog planetarium shows are a combined effort of the Zeiss projector, slide projectors and video projectors working together to form a multimedia experience. Planetarium officials hope to display at least a portion of the projector somewhere in the center. The projector was removed in August 2011.\n\nOn February 23, 2007, Morehead opened its first interactive exhibit, \"Zoom In: Science at the Extremes\". It features current science at the extremes of size and scale, including research done by UNC scientists.\n\n\"The Ancient Carolinians\" opened on November 17, 2007. This exhibit explores the lives of the first people to live on the land now known as North Carolina, interpreting the use of 10,000-year-old artifacts from the Hardaway archaeological site. This exhibit is supported in part by the Alcoa Foundation, which donated the artifacts to the university. After January 1, 2009, the exhibit installation was removed so that \"The Ancient Carolinians\" could become Morehead's first traveling exhibit.\n\nMorehead Planetarium and Science Center offers live, educator-led programs in its Science Stage. \"Science LIVE!\" shows present the foundations of science through experiments and demonstrations that often involve volunteers from the audience. \"Science 360\" programs are focused on bringing current science to audience members through images, video, demonstrations, and audience interaction.\n\nThe DESTINY Traveling Science Learning Program, which was founded by UNC in 2000, became part of Morehead in 2006. DESTINY develops cutting-edge science curricula, provides professional development for science teachers (grades 6-12) and operates two mobile science labs that travel throughout North Carolina.\n\nThe PLANETS Portable Planetarium Program brings the fulldome planetarium experience to elementary schools that are too far from Morehead to plan a field trip to the center.\n\nEach year, the Jupiter Committee (a volunteer group that assists in planning the Jupiter Ball fundraising gala for Morehead) awards the Jupiter Fellowship. This award goes to the student employee(s) who submits the best proposal for a Morehead program, activity or innovation. The fellowship funds the implementation of the proposal.\n\nMorehead Observatory, located on the east end of the top floor of the Morehead building, houses a Perkin-Elmer reflecting telescope operated by the UNC Physics and Astronomy Department. Faint object observing is still possible with narrow wavelength filters to block the city lights of Chapel Hill. The observatory supports research programs in bright star spectroscopy and optical counterparts of Gamma Ray Bursts.\n\nRecord setting crowds attended events for the 2012 transit of Venus. Nearly 3000 crowded the planetarium, observatory, rooftop, and sidewalk outdrawing events at major planetariums in larger cities such as the Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles and Adler Planetarium in Chicago. Morehead opened the planetarium and observatory to the public, hosted astronomy talks and volunteers from local astronomy clubs with solar telescopes and distributed solar viewing glasses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2565857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2565857", "title": "Mylan", "text": "Mylan\n\nMylan N.V. is a global generic and specialty pharmaceuticals company registered in the Netherlands, with principal executive offices in Hatfield, Hertfordshire, UK and global headquarters in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, US. In 2007, Mylan acquired a controlling interest in India-based Matrix Laboratories Limited, a top producer of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) for generic drugs, and the generics business of Germany-based Merck KGaA. Through these acquisitions, Mylan grew from the third-largest generic and pharmaceuticals company in the United States to the second-largest generic and specialty pharmaceuticals company in the world.\n\nMylan went public on the OTC market in February 1973. It is listed on the NASDAQ, and its shares are a component of NASDAQ Biotechnology, NASDAQ-100, and the S&P 500 indices.\n\nThe company develops and produces medicines for a wide range of medical disciplines, including oncology, anaphylaxis, antiretrovirals, cardiovascular, respiratory, dermatology, immunology, anesthesia and pain management, infectious disease, gastroenterology, diabetology/endocrinology, and women's healthcare.\n\nIn 2016, Mylan's pricing of the EpiPen, an epinephrine autoinjector, became controversial and was widely referred to as \"price gouging\". As a result, investigations were opened into whether Mylan had misclassified the EpiPen under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, a common form of pharmaceutical fraud. In October 2016, Mylan settled these investigations with the U.S. Department of Justice, agreeing to pay $465 million and enter into a corporate integrity agreement concerning the rebate program. In a report published on June 12, 2017 Institutional Shareholder Services criticized Mylan for the \"outsized compensation\" of Mylan's directors. Former CEO Robert Coury received a $98 million 2016 pay package in spite of shareholder losses and the perceived harm to the company inflicted by the EpiPen controversies. The report urged Mylan's shareholders to oust all of Mylan's existing directors.\n\nMylan Inc. operates several divisions and subsidiaries in various regions around the world:\n\n\n\n\nFounded in 1961, the company was first located in an abandoned skating rink in White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia. The facility was moved to Pennsauken, New Jersey in 1962, to Princeton, West Virginia in 1963, and then Morgantown, West Virginia, in 1965, and in 1976 it relocated its corporate headquarters to the Pittsburgh suburb Canonsburg, Pennsylvania. Finally in 2004 it moved to a new office center in nearby Southpointe, a suburban business park located in Cecil Township, where it is still located.\n\nOn February 23, 1973, Mylan had its initial public offering (IPO), becoming a publicly traded company on the OTC market under the ticker symbol MYLN. In 1976 the stock moved to NASDAQ. Their final stock move was in 1986, when their stock became available for trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol MYL. Currently, the stock is traded on the NASDAQ.\n\nMylan Pharmaceuticals was founded as a drug distributor in 1961 by Milan Puskar and Don Panoz. In 1966 Mylan began manufacturing penicillin G tablets as well as vitamins and other dietary supplements.\n\nPanoz left Mylan in 1969 and Puskar quit the company in 1973, as it grew and experienced financial difficulties. The board hired Roy McKnight as board chairman, who convinced Puskar to return in 1976.\n\nMylan discontinued operating as a contract manufacturing organization in 1980 and instead chose to market their products under their own \"Mylan-labeled\" brand.\n\nWith the passage of the Hatch-Waxman Act in 1984, Mylan and other small generic companies gained value; in the eighteen months following passage of the law Mylan's earnings grew 166% to $12.5 million and its stock value rose 800%.\n\nIn the 1980s one of the most prescribed drugs in the US was Dyazide, a diuretic that was a combination drug containing triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide; it had been on the market since 1965 and its patents had expired in 1980. Complications arose with the introductions of generics versions, because the formulation of Dyazide resulted in variable batches that made it impossible for generic manufacturers to show that their versions were bioequivalent.\n\nSome generic companies committed fraud trying to bring a generic version of Dyazide. Bolar Pharmaceutical had the first generic version approved in 1987, but it turned out that Bolar had fraudulently substituted Dyazide for its own version to conduct studies that were submitted to the FDA. By 1989 the FDA rescinded its approval based on its suspicions and filed criminal charges against Bolar, to which Bolar eventually pled guilty in 1991.\n\nMylan chose to develop a new version of a triamterene/hydrochlorothiazide combination drug instead of going the generic route; it developed a different, more stable formulation and used different dosages of each active ingredient (50 mg hydrochlorothiazide and 75 mg triamterene, compared with Dyazide's 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide and 50 mg triamterene). This drug had to get approval as a new drug, as opposed to a generic. Their product was called Maxzide and was approved in 1984. The higher dose allowed once per day dosing, which Mylan and its marketing partner, Lederle, believed would help it compete against Dyazide, which had $210M in sales in 1983. However, Mylan's patents on the drug were declared invalid in court, and its marketing exclusivity expired in 1987, prompting a rush of generic competition\n\nMylan had concerns about the practices of its competitors and the FDA in general, and also with regard to companies seeking to bring generic versions of Maxzide. Mylan hired private investigators to examine its competitors' practices, and when it found evidence of corruption, it submitted it to the House Oversight and Investigations Committee, which investigated and found fraud and corruption within the Food and Drug Administration's generic drugs division and at other generic companies. Two of the companies that had gotten approval to market generic versions of Maxzide, Vitarine Pharmaceutical and Par Pharmaceutical, were targets of Mylan's initial investigation and were found to have used Mylan's Maxzide to obtain their bioequivalence data, leading both companies to withdraw its generic competitor to Mylan's product.\n\nThe corruption in the nascent generics industry and at the office in the FDA regulating it was widely covered in the media, and led to widespread concern among doctors and the public in the late 1980s and early 1990s that generic drugs were not really the same as the branded drugs they were meant to replace.\n\nIn 1987 Mylan agreed to enter into a joint venture with Bolar to buy Somerset Pharmaceuticals; Mylan wanted access to Somersets' drug discovery capabilities as well as its new drug for Parkinson's, selegiline; the deal was completed in 1988 but its consummation was dependent on FDA approval of selegiline, which came in 1989.\n\nMylan acquired Bertek Inc. in 1993 for its transdermal patch technologies, and kept it as a subsidiary. In 1999 Mylan renamed the company Mylan Technologies Inc. (MTI). MTI eventually came to be the contract manufacturer for the selegiline transdermal patch and was the first company to market generic nitroglycerin, estradiol, clonidine, and fentanyl transdermal patches. \n\nIn 1996 Mylan acquired UDL Laboratories, a supplier of unit dose generic medications to institutional and long-term care facilities.\n\nIn 1998 when it was the world's second largest generics company, Mylan came under investigation from the Federal Trade Commission after it raised the prices of its products, tripling them in the case of lorazepam. Mylan had entered into an exclusive agreement with Profarmica, an Italian company that supplied drug ingredients, after which Mylan's competitors had higher prices and a diminished supply of raw ingredients for lorazepam and other drugs. Before the round of price increases the price of generic drugs had been 5 - 10% of the price of branded drugs and afterwards it was around 50%. The FTC filed suit at the end of 1998 and 32 states filed parallel actions. The case was settled in 2000, with Mylan paying a total of $147M -- $100M in disgorged profits into a fund to reimburse consumers and state agencies that had overpaid, $8 million in attorney's fees to the State Attorneys General, $35 million, plus $4 million in attorney's fees, to settle certain class actions with insurers and managed care organizations—and Mylan and three ingredient suppliers (Cambrex Corporation, Profarmaco S.R.L., and Gyma Laboratories) also agreed to an injunction barring them from entering into similar anticompetitive agreements in the future.\n\nIn 2004 Mylan and King Pharmaceuticals began discussing a deal in which Mylan would acquire King for about $4B; Mylan wanted to expand its presence in branded pharmaceuticals and to acquire King's sales force. The deal was complicated by a number of factors, and included an SEC investigation into King's accounting and Carl Icahn obtaining a 9.8% interest in Mylan and becoming its largest stakeholder in order to kill the deal. The parties called off the deal in February 2005. Afterwards, Icahn offered to buy Mylan for $5.4B and nominated a slate of board members to change the direction of Mylan; he won three seats in May 2005. In June Mylan bought back 25% of its shares in order to fend off Icahn. In July Icahn gave up his bid and sold his shares.\n\nIn August 2006 Mylan announced that it had reached an agreement to buy a controlling interest in Matrix Laboratories, an Indian supplier of active pharmaceutical ingredients. The deal gave Mylan access to markets in India and China and was completed in January the next year.\n\nIn May 2007 Mylan and Merck KGaA agreed that Mylan would acquire Merck's generics arm for $6.6B. The deal was completed that October and tripled the size of Mylan. Mylan acquired the rights to market the EpiPen in the transaction. At that time annual sales were around $200 million and the EpiPen had about 90% of the market.\n\nIn 2009, the company filed two lawsuits against the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette after the newspaper ran an article that was critical of the quality control procedures used at the company's Morgantown plant. The company had earlier quality control issues involving the FDA. The lawsuits were dropped in 2012 without any damages paid by the Post-Gazette, which stated \"The Post-Gazette did not find and did not intend to report that Mylan had manufactured or distributed any defective drugs. The Post-Gazette regrets if any reader of the article thought otherwise.\"\n\nAlso in 2009, Mylan and its subsidiary UDL agreed to pay a $118M to settle a suit filed under the False Claims Act in which Mylan/UDL and two other companies were accused of underpaying states under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. The program requires drug companies to give rebates to states under Medicaid and the rebates are higher for new drugs than for generics; the suit said that the companies sold new drugs but paid rebates as if they were generics.\n\nIn 2011, Mylan entered into an agreement with Pfizer for the exclusive worldwide rights to develop, manufacture and commercialize Pfizer's generic equivalent to GlaxoSmithKline's Advair (US)/Seretide (UK) Diskus incorporating Pfizer's proprietary dry powder inhaler delivery platform. Mylan launched the product in the UK in 2015 and in February 2016 the FDA accepted its ANDA, putting it in line behind Hikma and Sandoz to launch a generic version in the US.\n\nIn 2012, Mylan launched a program called \"EpiPen4Schools\" to sell EpiPens in bulk and with discounts to schools. To participate in the program schools had to agree not to buy epinephrine autoinjectors from any other company for a year, a requirement which a Mylan spokesperson said is no longer part of its program.\n\nIn December 2012, the National Association of State Boards of Education launched a policy initiative designed to \"help state boards of education as they develop student health policies regarding anaphylaxis and epinephrine auto-injector access and use,\" and advocated for state laws protecting school from legal liability for stocking and using epinephrine autoinjectors. Gayle Manchin, the mother of Mylan's CEO, Heather Bresch, had become president of the association in 2010, and shortly after had discussed donations from her \"daughter's company\" to the association. Manchin had been appointed to the West Virginia state school board by her husband, then-governor of the state Joe Manchin, in 2007. In a statement, Mylan said, \"There is no truth to the suggestion that the company's efforts were anything but straightforward or that we are aware of anyone advocating inappropriately for the right of schoolchildren to have access to potential life-saving medicine.\" \n\nAfter successful lobbying from Mylan, in 2013, the \"School Access to Emergency Epinephrine Act\" became law after passing Congress with broad and bipartisan support; it protected anyone from liability if they administered epinephrine to a child in a school (previously, only trained professionals or the affected person were allowed to administer the drug, and were open to liability), and it provided some financial incentives for schools that didn’t already stock epinephrine autoinjector to start stocking them. Joe Manchin, the father of Mylan's CEO, was a senator at that time.\n\nIn 2013 Mylan acquired an Indian generic injectable drugs company, Agila Specialties Private, for $1.6 billion in cash. In 2015 three plants acquired in that deal were issued warning letters by the FDA.\n\nIn July 2014, Mylan and Abbott Laboratories announced an agreement under which Mylan would buy Abbott's generic drugs business in developed markets for stock valued at about $5.3 billion. Mylan acquired Mumbai-based Famy Care and expand its presence in the market for women's contraceptives at about $750 million.\n\nIn April 2015, Mylan tried negotiating with the management of Irish pharmaceutical firm Perrigo to acquire the company, and when those negotiations failed Mylan attempted a hostile takeover, offering to buy $26B in shares directly from shareholders. Too few shareholders agreed to sell their stock by the deadline set in November 2015 and the effort failed.\n\nTwo weeks after Mylan made its first offer for Perrigo, Teva Pharmaceutical offered to buy Mylan for $40B; the combined companies would have been the world's largest generic company and the 9th biggest drug company in the world. In July, Teva dropped its bid for Mylan and instead acquired Allergan's generic drug business for about the same price.\n\nIn June 2015, Mylan agreed to work with Pulmatrix, a company with a proprietary inhaled drug delivery platform, to co-develop a product to treat for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; the product was PUR0200, a generic drug in a Pulmatrix device.\n\nIn February 2016, the company announced it would acquire Meda for $9.9 billion. In May of the same year the company announced it would acquire Renaissance Acquisition Holdings dermatology division for up to $1 billion.\n\nIn December 2016, the attorneys general of 20 states filed a civil complaint accusing Mylan of a coordinated scheme to artificially maintain high prices for a generic antibiotic and diabetes drug. The complaint alleged price collusion schemes between six pharmaceutical firms including informal gatherings, telephone calls, and text messages.\n\nIn October 2017, the company announced the launch of the first FDA-approved generic of Teva’s long-acting Copaxone. Approximately 3 months later, Credit Suisse analyst Vamil Divan cited IMS Health data which showed that the new generic accounted for 10% of the market.\n\nIn May 2018, Mylan announced a collaboration with West Virginia University to expose children across West Virginia to STEM educational initiatives.\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's major mergers and acquisitions and historical predecessors:\n\nMylan acquired the right to market and distribute the EpiPen line of epinephrine autoinjector devices from Merck KGaA as part of their 2007 deal; that right had formerly been held by Dey LP, a wholly owned subsidiary of Merck. According to Bloomberg the devices deliver about $1 worth of drug. At that time annual sales were around $200M. Bresch, the company's CEO, saw an opportunity to increase sales through marketing and advocacy, and the company launched a marketing campaign to increase awareness of the dangers of anaphylaxis for people with severe allergies that made the brand \"EpiPen\" as identified with its product as \"Kleenex\" is with facial tissue. The company also successfully lobbied the FDA to broaden the label to include risk of anaphylaxis and in parallel, successfully lobbied Congress to generate legislation making EpiPens available in schools and in public places like defibrillators are, and hired the same people that Medtronic had worked with on defibrillator legislation to do so. Mylan's efforts to gain market dominance were aided when Sanofi's competing product was recalled in November 2015 and further when Teva's generic competitor was rejected by the FDA in March 2016.\n\nBy the first half of 2015, Mylan had an 85% market share of such devices in the US and in that year sales reached around $1.5B and accounted for 40% of Mylan's profit. Those profits were also due in part to Mylan's continually raising the price of EpiPens starting in 2009; in 2009 the wholesale price of two EpiPens was about $100, by July 2013 the price was about $265, in May 2015 it was around $461, and in May 2016 the price rose again to around $609, around a 500% jump from the price in 2009. \n\nStarting in 2014, according to a 2017 report in the \"New York Times\", mid-level executives began questioning the rate at which the company had increased and was planning to continue to increase the price of the Epi-Pen, and raising concerns that the price increases were unethical; the \"Times\" reported that when these concerns were brought to Robert Coury, the chairman of the board, Coury \"replied that he was untroubled. He raised both his middle fingers and explained, using colorful language, that anyone criticizing Mylan, including its employees, ought to go copulate with themselves. Critics in Congress and on Wall Street, he said, should do the same. And regulators at the Food and Drug Administration? They, too, deserved a round of anatomically challenging self-fulfillment.\"  The \"Times\" reported that Bresch provided similarly dismissive responses. The \"Times\" reporter noted that \"Those top leaders’ responses are a far cry from the message on Mylan’s website, which says that 'we challenge every member of every team to challenge the status quo,' and that 'we put people and patients first, trusting that profits will follow.'\", and also noted that \"The firm is a case study in the limits of what consumer and employee activism, as well as government oversight, can achieve.\" \n\nIn the summer of 2016, as parents prepared to send their children back to school and went to pharmacies to get new EpiPens, people began to express outrage at the cost of the EpiPen and Mylan was widely and harshly criticized, including criticism from Martin Shkreli, \"poster boy for grasping pharma greed,\" letters from two Senators and initiation of Congressional investigations. Mylan's pricing of the EpiPen was widely referred to as price gouging. The last price increase coincided with Mylan's airing of a new line of TV commercials that were described as \"shocking\" and \"no holds barred\", depicting an anaphylactic reaction from the point of view of the young woman having it at a party, and ending with the young woman seeing her swollen and hive-covered face in the mirror before she collapses. In response to criticism, Mylan increased financial assistance available for some patients to purchase EpiPens, a gesture that was called a \"classic public relations move\" by Harvard Medical School professor Aaron Kesselheim. The up to $300 saving cards can only be used by a small number of people who need the drug, and no one on Medicaid. They do nothing about the high price which is still being paid by insurers, who ultimately pass the cost onto consumers.Mylan further responded by releasing the first authorized generic version of the EpiPen in December 2016 at a more than 50% discount.\n\nIn September 2016, the New York State Attorney General began an investigation into Mylan's \"EpiPen4Schools\" program in New York to determine if the program's contracts violated antitrust law and the West Virginia State Attorney General opened an investigation into whether Mylan had given the state the correct discount under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and subpoenaed the company when it refused to provide the documentation the state requested.\n\nIn October 2016 the CEO of Mylan testified to Congress that Pfizer/King charged Mylan about $34.50 for one device. In September 2016, a Silicon Valley engineering consultancy performed a teardown analysis of the EpiPen and estimated the manufacturing and packaging costs at about $10 for a two-pack.\n\nAccording to the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Inspector General analysis, the U.S. government may have overpaid \"as much as $1.27 billion between 2006 and 2016\" to drugmaker Mylan N.V. for the EpiPen emergency allergy treatment. This represents three times the proposed settlement of $465 million announced by Mylan in October 2016. In October 2016, Mylan announced a settlement with the US Department of Justice over rebates paid by Mylan to states under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Questions had been raised by Congress and others about why EpiPen had been classified as a generic rather a proprietary product in the program since 1997; generic drugs have lower rebates (13%) than proprietary drugs (23%), and price hikes for generic drugs cannot be passed onto states, and a common form of pharmaceutical fraud involves misclassifying proprietary drugs as generic under the program. Under the agreement Mylan agreed to pay a $465 million payment and to a sign a corporate integrity agreement requiring it to perform better in the future; the settlement also resolved cases brought by states related to the rebates. Simultaneously with the settlement Mylan also announced it was being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission related to the drug rebate program. Republican Senator Chuck Grassley, chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee that launched the \"probe of EpiPen pricing probe in 2016, released the analysis on May 30, 2017. On the same day, a group of Mylan \"investment funds urged shareholders to vote against the re-election of the company's directors after it paid Chairman Robert Coury over $97 million last year.\"\n\nMylan manufactures rocuronium bromide, which is approved by the state of Alabama for use in executions by lethal injection. European manufacturers refuse to sell drugs which can be used for executions to the United States, except to distributors or users who sign legally binding agreements that the drug will not be used for executions down the delivery chain.\n\nIn September 2014, the London-based human rights organization Reprieve told Mylan that they were the only FDA-approved manufacturer of rocuronium bromide without legal controls in place to prevent its use in executions, and there was \"a very real risk that Mylan may soon become the go-to provider of execution drugs for states across the country\". The German asset manager divested itself of $70 million in Mylan shares for that reason. Mylan said that their distribution was \"legally compliant,\" and that their restrictions did \"prohibit resale to correctional facilities for use in lethal injections.\" \n\nHeather Bresch is Executive Director and has served as the CEO of Mylan since 2012. Robert Coury serves as Chairman, and Rajiv Malik is President.\n"}
{"id": "9794353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9794353", "title": "Negotiated cartelism", "text": "Negotiated cartelism\n\nNegotiated cartelism (sometimes called a bilateral monopoly by economists) is a labor arrangement that holds labor prices above the market clearing level through union leverage over employers. The phrase was coined by Peter Swenson, an economics professor at Yale university.\n\nLabor finds this desirable because it can point to the increased wages it offers as signs of its achievement, and labor receives more money. Capitalists may find this desirable because there are \"worse alternatives,\" i.e., strikes, workplace disruptions, etc. Furthermore, it acts as a barrier to entry against upstart firms. If all firms are required to pay higher than normal wages, it is difficult to compete on price, and an employer can take out an undercutting competitor by encouraging strikes.\n\nIn areas where the cartelists wage is higher than other local employers using the same labor pool, they have the advantage of being able to cherry pick the best workers and can often expect extra effort from their employees.\n\nThis arrangement would appear to be to the detriment of consumers, but it doesn't actually eliminate price competition. It simply removes wages as a factor, which makes employers seek new and more entrepreneurial methods of cost saving.\n\nThe National Civic Federation, an American economic organization founded in 1900 in an attempt to ameliorate labor disputes, is an example of negotiated cartelism in action. Their 'Industrial Arbritation Department' helped to promote collective bargaining on a multi-employer basis - thus bringing wages above the market clearing level in areas such as brewing, entertainment, boiler making, trucking and clothing.\n"}
{"id": "47034125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47034125", "title": "Nizar Al-Adsani", "text": "Nizar Al-Adsani\n\nNizar Mohammed Al-Adsani is a Kuwaiti businessman, the deputy-chairman and chief executive officer (CEO) of Kuwait Petroleum Corporation.\n\nAl-Adsani has a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from South Dakota State University.\n\nAl-Adsani started his career at Kuwait Oil Company (KOC) in 1984. Beginning as a mechanical engineer, he held various positions, rising to superintendent, engineering projects in 1993, head of operational planning in 1997 and general superintendent, project management in 1999. At Kuwait Petroleum Company (KPC) he became manager of planning & investment coordination upstream, switching companies and positions in 1999 and staying until 2004. In 2004 he then was named executive director for business administration at Al-Khafji Joint Operations (KJO) and became a member of the joint operating committee. He was later promoted to deputy managing director at the Kuwait Gulf Oil Company in November 2007 and became a Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company's board member in the same year. He was also appointed deputy managing director for Al-Khafji Joint Operations and became a member of the joint executive committee (JEC). Two years later, in October 2009, Al-Adsani was appointed chairman of the Joint Operating Committee at KJO. He held the position until 2011. In 2011 he became a board member of the Kuwait Gulf Operation Committee (KGOC) and from 2011 to 2013 he served as chairman and managing director of Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company (KUFPEC).\n\nToday Al-Adsani is the deputy chairman of the board of directors and the chief executive officer of Kuwait Petroleum Corporation (KPC). He was appointed to his current position in May 2013.\n\nAl-Adsani regularly appears on national and international media, commenting on the developments within KPC as well as national and foreign energy sector related developments.\n\nHe's also a regularly speaking at different national and international conferences.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "25807047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25807047", "title": "Pensions Management Institute", "text": "Pensions Management Institute\n\nFounded in 1976, the Pensions Management Institute (PMI) is the UK's largest and most recognisable professional body for employee benefits and retirement savings professionals, supporting over 6,500 members in 32 countries.\n\nThe purpose of the Institute is \"To set and promote standards of excellence and lifelong learning for employee benefits and retirement savings professionals and trustees through qualifications, membership and ongoing support services.\"\n\nPMI's members, represented in 8 regions, are responsible for managing and advising some of the largest institutions in the world, accounting for £1trillion invested in pensions.\n\nThe PMI was formed in June 1976 by four bodies: The National Association of Pension Funds (NAPF) - now the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association , the Society of Pension Consultants (SPC) - now the Society of Pension Professionals, the Association of Consulting Actuaries (ACA) and the Life Insurance Council of the Association of British Insurers (ABI.)\n\nThese organisations felt that there should be a professional institute dedicated to setting educational standards and qualifications for those advising upon and managing UK pension schemes. Each of those bodies contributed four senior people to sit on the first PMI council.\n\nThe PMI (in conjunction with the Chartered Insurance Institute) held its initial examinations in 1978.\n\nIn September 2015, Chief Executive Vince Linnane announced that he would be stepping down after more than thirty years with the PMI, and over ten years in the CEO role. Gareth Tancred was announced as the new CEO in February 2016.\n\nPMI Leadership\n\n\nThe PMI provides nationally recognised qualifications for those working in the pensions industry and related fields. The PMI offers vocational qualifications, available through PMI approved centres, as well as a range of exam based qualifications.\n\nThe PMI offers Award, Certificate, Diploma and Advanced Diploma level qualifications. PMI has worked in collaboration with employers and other professional bodies to create a new entry level apprenticeship standard for workplace pensions consultants or administrators. The PMI is also working alongside Imperial College London to create a MSc in Sustainable Retirement and Investment Management.\n\nAs part of career development research carried out by the PMI in November 2015, 65% of 450 members questioned suggested that employers would look to work specifically with people who hold PMI qualifications.\n\nThe PMI offers the following levels of membership:\n\nContinuing Professional Development:\n\nPMI offers a Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Scheme for the benefit of its members. Completion and recording of CPD became compulsory for PMI Fellows in 2010 and for Associates in 2011. CPD is not compulsory for other levels of membership.\n\nOther CPD Schemes:\n\nPMI Accredited Advisor Programme (PMI AAP): Individuals are required to undertake a minimum of 35 hours of appropriate CPD.\n\nPMI AE Accredited CPD Programme: Individuals are required to undertake a minimum of 10 hours appropriate CPD in a 12 month period.\n\nPMI Trustee Group CPD Scheme: A board in which each person has achieved 15 hours CPD is eligible for PMI Certificate Achievement.\n\nRegional Groups:\n\nThe PMI has a network of regional groups throughout the UK (Eastern, London, Midlands, North East, North West, Scotland, Southern, South West and a sister Institute in Ireland, the Irish Institute of Pensions Managers (IIPM).\n\nThe PMI runs a number of conferences, workshops and technical seminars each year. Annual events run by the PMI include an Annual Dinner, which is held at The Dorchester Hotel, an Annual Conference and an Annual Lecture.\n\nThe PMI's Annual Conference 2016 saw Baroness Ros Altmann open the event with a welcome speech in which she told delegates that 'the UK was in a pensions and retirement revolution with radical reform happening all the way through from state to private pensions.'\n\nThe PMI works with employers in order to enhance professional development, devise and implement training and development solutions and to enable its members to access a wide range of thought leadership and expertise via its main communication channels. The PMI has a range of Expert Partners, which specialise in the following fields;\n\n\nThe PMI also run a Study Support Programme (SSP). The SSP is an arrangement in which the Institute joins forces with leading companies and firms, managing or advising UK pension schemes, in order to offer enhanced learning and study support services for those undertaking PMI qualifications and examinations.\n\nFurthermore, the PMI allows employers to become PMI Approved Centres, and works alongside these Approved Centres to provide vocational qualifications. The delivery of these qualifications can be tailored to meet the educational requirements of the employer.\n\nThe PMI publishes periodic research reports for members on the results of surveys and the findings from research projects.\n\nThe PMI also conducts research projects in conjunction with their appointed Research Partners. These research projects cover many issues which are important to its members and more broadly to retirement savings professionals.\n\nPMI News is the PMI's monthly magazine which is sent to all members. It provides technical feature articles from professionals within the industry, expert/insight columns from the Institute's Expert Partners, information to support pension trustees, updates on consultancy and administration, actuarial and investment and legal issues, as well as updates from the Pensions Regulator and NEST. The publication also provides details on forthcoming PMI events, latest news from the PMI including qualification updates, news from the Institute's Regional Groups along with a list of job vacancies within the pensions industry.\n\nPMI Technical News is the PMI's quarterly newsletter which is sent to all the PMI's professional pensions and trustee members. It addresses, in depth, one particular topic which is of current interest.\n\nThe PMI communicates with its members and the wider community through a variety of digital platforms including Twitter and LinkedIn. The Institute also provides its own online TV channel, PMI TV, developed in association with the Asset TV Network. PMI TV is an interactive online TV channel offering a selection of topical, relevant and informative programmes to pensions professionals and trustees. It provides a range of presentations, comment, interviews and web-casts from key figureheads within the pensions industry.\n\nAsset.tv 'Most Watched Institutional Content': PMI TV\n\n"}
{"id": "29112943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29112943", "title": "Peter Fritz", "text": "Peter Fritz\n\nPeter Adalbert Robert George Fritz AM (born 4 January 1943) is an Australian businessman and philanthropist. He was born in Arad, Romania and migrated to Australia in 1962. He has been Group Managing Director of the TCG Group of Companies since 1971 and Chairman of institute for active policy Global Access Partners since 1997.\nPeter is a co-founder of well over 100 companies and several business accelerators. TCG® is a group of innovative businesses which over the last 46 years have been at the forefront of Australian innovation. They produced many breakthrough discoveries in computer and communication technologies, data transmission, management structures and the food industry, including VOIP telephony (1998); design and manufacturing of plastic note sorting machines (1995); lottery ticket validation terminal (1988); mirror microwave communication technology and CT3 technology, first in the world (1986); BOW Memory unit for cash registers (1985); credit card validation system (pioneer technology in secure transmission) and MOX memory unit for building security (1984); low-cost fossil fuel power station simulator (1983); the first echo-free, hands-free telephone handset (1978); and online stock control system - the first real-time system in commercial use (1972).\n\nPeter established and chaired the National Incubator Companies Board (ATP) between 1992 and 1997 and co-founded the Joint Technology Partners incubator – a significant investor in Australian technology start-ups.\n\nIn 1993, some of the 65 companies in the TCG Group were publicly floated on the Australian Stock Exchange as TechComm Group Limited, later renamed Utility Computer Services (UXC). In 2016, UXC was acquired by CSC for $430 million. Another former TCG company floated on the New York Stock Exchange in November 1997 for US$600m (AU$1 billion), making it the largest technology company to be established in Australia until that time. Today the TCG companies, and entities with TCG roots, employ well over 6000 people with a turnover in excess of $1.5 billion annually.\n\nPeter's innovative management style and corporate structuring has led to the creation of a business model which is being copied by many successful entrepreneurs, and has become part of university undergraduate and masters programs in business management in Australia and around the world.\n\nPeter holds six degrees or professional qualifications, is an adjunct professor at the University of Technology Sydney and an honorary member of the Hungarian Academy of Engineering 1998. He is a fellow of the Australian Computer Society, the Institute of Engineers Australia, and the Australian Society of Accountants. His many awards include The Order of Australia in 1993 and the UTS Alumni Award for Excellence 2010. His books include 'The Possible Dream' (Penguin 1988), 'Beyond \"Yes\"' (Harper Collins 1998), \"The Profit Principle\" co-authored by Jeanne-Vida Douglas (John Wiley and Sons 2010) and \"Managing for Change\" co-authored by Brad Howarth (TCG Publications 2014).\n\nPeter chairs the Australian Government Consultative Committee on Knowledge Capital and serves on a number of private enterprise boards. He represented Australia on the OECD Small Medium Size Enterprise committee and in other OECD forums.\n\nPeter Fritz is a Member of the Board of the Global Panel Foundation - Australasia - a respected non-government organisation (with offices and satellites in Berlin, Copenhagen, New York, Prague, Sydney and Toronto) that works behind the scenes in crisis areas around the world. The current Australasia Chair is the Rt. Hon. Don McKinnon, former Deputy Prime Minister of New Zealand and Commonwealth Secretary General, and the Vice Chair is Hon. Philip Ruddock.\n\nPeter co-chaired the government-commissioned Working Group on Education and Training in Philanthropy and Social Investment (2007–2008) which led to the establishment of the Centre for Social Impact (CSI) in 2008, a national centre for philanthropy and social investment, with an Australian Government endowment of $12.4 million. The CSI is a joint collaboration between the business schools of the University of New South Wales, Melbourne Business School, Swinburne University of Technology and the University of Western Australia and provides managerial education, executive support and research for the not-for-profit sector.\n\nPeter was instrumental in the establishment of the OECD Working Group on SMEs (1993), Society for Knowledge Economics (2005), Australian Society for Progress and Wellbeing (2014), National Small Business Centre (1992), International Institute for Negotiation and Conflict Management (1996), and many others.\n\nPeter is a regular blogger on the issues of innovation and entrepreneurship on Open Forum (Australia).[15] He is currently collaborating with privacy expert Malcolm Crompton and author Brad Howarth on a new book “A Vision for an Innovative Australia” based on interviews with eminent Australian and international thought leaders. The book explores what Australia’s core competencies are and is relevant for any government long-term planning.\n"}
{"id": "1708582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1708582", "title": "Pizza Tycoon", "text": "Pizza Tycoon\n\nPizza Tycoon (known as Pizza Connection in Europe) is a business simulation video game. The game was designed by the German company Cybernetic Corporation and Software 2000 in 1994, and was published by Assemble Entertainment after its re-release in 2017. It was published and adapted for the American market by MicroProse with changed artwork and locations.\n\nThe game is centered on being the manager of a pizza restaurant in a town in Europe or the U.S.. It gives the player the option to choose among more than thirty different characters, to create one's own pizza, have cooking contests and modify the display of the restaurant and kitchen. The player can call upon local mafia to sabotage competitor restaurants or get money from criminal activities such as weapon and drug dealing.\n\nThe game displays a playful sense of humor from the graphics and cartoonish drawings, game messages, and animated faces that are put on interacting characters. The original European version (\"Pizza Connection\") featured a graphical style very similar to MAD artist Don Martin. Microprose's adapted version (\"Pizza Tycoon\") for the American market distanced itself from this style due to copyright concerns with newly created characters in a different style modeled after famous people as Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan or Lenin.\n\n\"Pizza Tycoon\" was followed by \"Pizza Tycoon 2\", developed by Software 2000.\n\nBoth games were released on GOG.com in January 2017.\n\nThe Amiga Joker 2/94 magazine gave \"Pizza Connection\" 88 of 100%, Powerplay magazin rated the Amiga version 82 of 100%.\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the PC version of the game, rating it four stars out of five, and stated that \"Not a game for die hard action fans, but a winner for just about everyone else.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "220464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220464", "title": "Polishing", "text": "Polishing\n\nPolishing is the process of creating a smooth and shiny surface by rubbing it or using a chemical action, leaving a surface with a significant specular reflection (still limited by the index of refraction of the material according to the Fresnel equations.) In some materials (such as metals, glasses, black or transparent stones), polishing is also able to reduce diffuse reflection to minimal values. When an unpolished surface is magnified thousands of times, it usually looks like mountains and valleys. By repeated abrasion, those \"mountains\" are worn down until they are flat or just small \"hills.\" The process of polishing with abrasives starts with coarse ones and graduates to fine ones.\n\nThe strength of polished products is normally higher than their rougher counterpart owing to the removal of stress concentrations present in the rough surface. They take the form of corners and other defects which magnify the local stress beyond the inherent strength of the material. \n\nPolishing with very fine abrasive differs physically from coarser abrasion, in that material is removed on a molecular level, so that the rate is correlated to the boiling point rather than to the melting point of the material being polished.\n\nOther polishing processes include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54145086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54145086", "title": "Sergei Gorkov", "text": "Sergei Gorkov\n\nSergei Nikolayevich Gorkov (also tr. Sergey; ; born 1 December 1968) is a Russian banker and attorney. Currently, he serves as chairman of Vnesheconombank (VEB), a major Russian state-owned bank. Previously, between 2010 and 2016, he was the deputy chairman of Sberbank, Russia's largest bank.\n\nHe is a graduate of the Academy of the Federal Counter-Intelligence Service, which prepares members for the Foreign Intelligence Service and Federal Security Service (FSB), and holds a master's degree in economics.\n\nGorkov was born in Gai, Orenburg Oblast, Soviet Russia, in 1968, to Nikolai Gorkov and Lyubov Gorkova. He has an older brother, Alexei Gorkov (born 1963), who joined the VEB board of directors in January 2017, and a younger sister, Antonina Konoplya (born 1971). In 1994, Sergei graduated with a law degree from the Academy of the Federal Counter-Intelligence Service, which prepares members for the Foreign Intelligence Service and Federal Security Service (FSB). In 2002, he earned a master's degree in economics at the Plekhanov Russian University of Economics. He speaks English and Arabic.\n\nGorkov later worked with Bank Menatep (1994–1997) before joining the Yukos oil company and Yukos Moscow (1997–2005), all of which are now defunct. He was a vice president at Yukos, where he oversaw personnel and pensions. He was also engaged in a social outreach program, Yukos' own youth movement called \"New Civilization\" (). The movement, which was extremely costly, had a mission to change Russia, and involved summer camps and young people engaging in the political system with their own party and parliament.\n\nIn 2003, Yukos began to collapse under a massive tax scandal amid lawsuits against the Russian government. \"Forbes\" stated it was a large mystery how Gorkov managed to avoid arrest, but inside sources (including Pavel Ivlev) stated it was through his connections with the Kremlin and the FSB. Yukos CEO Mikhail Khodorkovsky, an enemy of Russian leader Vladimir Putin, was imprisoned for eight years for fraud and tax evasion, a conviction that drew skepticism in the West. Gorkov's subordinate, Alexei Kurtsin, was sentenced to 15 years in prison for embezzlement and served eight.\n\nIn 2005, after the Yukos fiasco, Gorkov moved to London, where he worked with several companies. He sat on the board of directors for Eton Energy Ltd. and for liquor company New Muscovy Company Ltd. Gorkov returned to Russia in 2006. From 2005 to 2008, he sat on the board of directors of FESCO Transport Group, Russia's largest intermodal transport operator.\n\nGorkov moved into the banking sector in November 2008, when he joined the state-owned Sberbank as director of personnel. During the recession, Gorkov oversaw an overhaul of the workforce, reducing the number of employees from 270,000 to 240,000 to increase efficiency and profit. He also led a retraining program, with 200,000 of the employees receiving some form of retraining, and introduced an employee evaluation system that led to monthly bonuses for the best employees.\n\nGorkov was tremendously successful during his first five years at Sberbank; Gorkov was appointed deputy chairman of the board of Sberbank in October 2010. He was promoted to run its international operations division and helped it expand its business reach from two countries to 20. Its international expansion included acquisitions of Volksbank of Austria and DenizBank of Turkey. Starting in October 2012, Gorkov was chairman of Sberbank's division in Kazakhstan.\n\nIn February 2016, Russian President Vladimir Putin promoted Gorkov to chairman of Vnesheconombank (VEB), succeeding Vladimir Dmitriev. According to Russian sources, Gorkov's connection to the FSB played a part in his appointment to lead VEB; Putin, the former director of the FSB, has appointed several of its members to important roles in Russian government. Founded in 1922, Vnesheconombank is one of the oldest banks in Russia, but was acquired as a state development bank in 2007. During the financial crisis of 2007–08, Vnesheconombank's status as a state-owned bank forced it to assist the government with the domestic economy. It reorganized struggling banks, purchased two steel companies, bought 175 billion rubles (approximately $3 billion) of sagging shares of Russian companies to keep them afloat, and also heavily invested in struggling Ukrainian banks.\n\nVEB, which has been dubbed Vladimir Putin's \"pet bank\" and \"slush fund\" by Western observers, also lent significantly for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, covertly funded pro-Russian groups in Ukraine, and has frequently bailed out Russian oligarchs close to Putin. According to \"Foreign Policy\"s assessment, VEB \"functions as an off-the-books kitty that allows President Vladimir Putin to reward his allies and shower money on his pet projects and political priorities.\" When Gorkov arrived in 2012, VEB was struggling to stay afloat; it reportedly needed 1.3 trillion rubles (approximately $22.8 billion) by 2020 to avoid defaulting on its debt. In 2015, the bank received a $20 billion bailout following approval of Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov.\n\nIn July 2014, Vnesheconombank was slapped with sanctions by the European Union and the United States over the Russian invasion of Ukraine; however, Gorkov has said that the bank is aggressively pursuing business in China. The bank is also pursuing deals in the Persian Gulf and Islamic world. In 2016, Gorkov announced VEB would partner with the Islamic Development Bank in Saudi Arabia, a financing conglomerate of 56 Islamic countries, with an initial pilot project of $100 million.\n\nIn 2017, Gorkov drew significant attention in Western media over his December 2016 meeting with Jared Kushner, son-in-law and top adviser to then president-elect Donald Trump. In March 2017, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer stated that Kushner met with Gorkov briefly as part of his role in the transition and as a diplomatic conduit to the State Department. However, VEB issued a statement that said Gorkov met with Kushner on a private matter concerning his family's real estate corporation, Kushner Companies, even though VEB has been under international sanctions since July 2014. The statement, issued to Reuters, said that Gorkov met \"with a number of representatives of the largest banks and business establishments of the United States, including Jared Kushner, the head of Kushner Companies.\" According to multiple reports, Kushner is looking for investors in his project at 666 Fifth Avenue, which Kushner Companies bought for a record $1.8 billion in January 2007 prior to the recession. VEB and White House officials have declined to specify the date of Gorkov's meeting with Kushner. According to \"The Washington Post\", a VEB private jet associated with Gorkov's travel flew from Moscow to Newark, New Jersey on 13 December, and then departed 14 December to fly to Japan, where Putin was visiting for two days.\n\nOn 25 May 2017, it was reported that Kushner was being investigated for his meetings with Gorkov and Russian ambassador to the United States Sergey Kislyak, meetings which Kushner omitted on his form about foreign contacts when applying for security clearance. Gorkov's status as an FSB alumnus has led to media scrutiny of his past, especially as VEB acted as a cover for convicted Russian spy Yevgeny Buryakov, who was deported from the U.S. in March after serving 30 months in federal prison. CNN also noted that when Donald Trump brought the Miss Universe Pageant to Moscow in 2013, its biggest sponsor was Sberbank, led by Gorkov at the time.\n\nGorkov also sits on the board of directors for several companies, including Sberbank and Denizbank, the Russian aircraft industry's United Aircraft Corporation, and the Agency for Strategic Initiatives, a state-run project that encourages young Russians to turn their ideas into businesses.\n\nLittle is known about Gorkov's private life. Gorkov is married to Anna Nikolayevna Gorkova, with whom he has sons Alexei (born 1997) and Nikolai (born 2006), and a daughter, Polina (born 2002). He lists his hobbies as cartography and history.\n\nGorkov was awarded the Medal of the Order \"For Merit to the Fatherland\", II class, and the Certificate of Honor of Russia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312820", "title": "Social dialogue", "text": "Social dialogue\n\nSocial dialogue (or social concertation) is the process whereby social partners (trade unions and employer organisations) negotiate, often in collaboration with the government, to influence the arrangement and development of work-related issues, labour market policies, social protection, taxation or other economic policies. It is a widespread procedure to develop public policies in Western Europe in particular.\n\nThese can be direct relations between the social partners themselves (\"bipartite\") or relations between governmental authorities and the social partners (\"tripartite\").\nTo make it more clear, Social dialogue can mean negotiation, consultation or simply an exchange of views between representatives of employers, workers and governments. It may consist of relations between labour and management, with or without direct government involvement. Social dialogue is a flexible tool that enables governments and employers’ and workers’ organizations to manage change and achieve economic and social goals.\n\nExamples of social dialogue activity include mutual information, open discussion, concertation (on-going tripartite dialogue), exchanges of opinions, consultation and negotiation (agreements /common opinions).\n\nEuropean social dialogue is enshrined in the Treaty establishing the European Community (articles 138 and 139; ex 118a and 118b) and it is promoted by the European Commission as an instrument for a better governance and promotion of social and economic reforms.\n\nAccording to the ILO’s definition, it means the practice of tripartism between governments and the representative organizations of workers and employers within and across borders are now more relevant to achieving solutions and to building up social cohesion and the rule of law through, among other means, international labor standards.\n\nThe aim of social dialogue is to advance opportunities for women and men to obtain decent and productive work in conditions of freedom, equality, security and human dignity.\n\nSocial dialogue includes all types of negotiation, consultation and exchange of information between, or among, representatives of governments, employers and workers on issues of common interest\n\n1. Respect for the fundamental rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining.\n\n2. Strong, independent workers' and employers' organizations with the technical capacity and knowledge required to participate in social dialogue.\n\n3. Political will and commitment to engage in social dialogue on the part of all parties.\n\n4. Appropriate institutional support.\n1. Information sharing：\n\nThe inevitable foundation of effective social dialogue is to share information.Even It doesn’t include discussion or real action, it still have its meaning.\n\n2. Consultation：\n\nConsultation exceeds information sharing, it needs exchanging perspective, opinion, ideas, and forms a deep conversation.\n\n3. Negotiation/Conclude convention：\n\nSome members need to be authorized to form the binding conventions.\n\n4. Collective bargaining：\n\nCollective bargaining is not only the inseparable form in social dialogue, but also be widely used. In every country, Collective \nbargaining is an indicator to identify the ability of social dialogue’s level.\n\nSocial dialogue faced challenge in some countries. Take Croatia for example, government and social partner couldn’t have consensus on adoption to overcome economic crisis in terms of public cost decrease and job saving through bargaining in several months.\n\nSocial dialogue may take place at different levels and in various form, depending on national circumstances.\n\nSocial dialogue in France was hard to be national because of the political opposite in groups of social partner. Except for collective bargaining, it highlighted the discussion in tripartism on the issues of employment policy and human resource development. Employment committee in France proceeded consultation and participation of policy establishment on the issues of promoting employment and job training.\n\nBecause of the high coverage rate of unions and employers’ groups in Germany, and less of problems in political and ideological conflicts, social dialogue in national level elaborated higher influence on establishment of national policies. Except for job training and employment security, it also emphasized bargaining and negotiation in work conditions, including shortening of work hours and wage increase.\n\nWhen European Union (EU) suffered from the high rate of unemployment, there was brilliant performances in terms of macroeconomic development and employment rate in Austria, Denmark, Ireland and Holland at the 1990s. Take 2001 for example, the unemployment rate of other 15 countries in EU was up to 7.4 percent. On the contrary, the unemployment rate of these four countries was merely 3.5 percent. ILO thought that the main reason of these four countries’ success was social dialogue, macroeconomic policies and labor market policies. For instance, the Wassenaar Agreement signed in Holland in 1982, and Denmark advocated the national recovery program with Ireland in 1987. These agreements stood for the will of social partner to solve economic dilemma.\n\n"}
{"id": "11033682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11033682", "title": "Societal marketing", "text": "Societal marketing\n\nThe societal marketing is a marketing concept that holds that a company should make marketing decisions not only by considering consumers' wants, the company's requirements, but also society's long-term interests.\n\nThe societal marketing concept holds that the organization's task is to determine the needs, wants, and interests of a target market and to deliver the desired satisfactions more effectively and efficiently than competitors in a way that preserves or enhances the well being of both the individual consumer and society in general. Therefore, marketers must endeavor to satisfy the needs and wants of their target markets in ways that preserve and enhance the well-being of consumers and society as a whole. It is closely linked with the principles of corporate social responsibility and of sustainable development.\n\nSocietal marketing can be defined as a \"marketing with a social dimension or marketing that includes non-economic criteria\". Societal marketing \"concerns for society's long term interests\". It is about \"the direct benefits for the organization and secondary benefit for the community\". Societal marketing distinguishes between the consumer's immediate satisfaction and longer term consumer and social benefits. Accordingly, Andreas Kaplan defines societal management as \"management that takes into account society's overall welfare in addition to mere profitability considerations.\" Its a 3 dimensional concept of marketing ;Social welfare,Individual welfare,Company profits.\n\nVarious attempts to define the objectives of societal marketing have been noted, such as:\n\nThe concept of societal marketing emerged in the early 1970s, promoting a more socially responsible, moral and ethical model of marketing in an effort to counter some of the more serious criticisms of marketing that had arisen out of the consumerist movement around that time. \n\nPhilip Kotler is generally credited with introducing the societal marketing concept to the literature in a 1972 article \"What Consumerism Means for Marketers\" in the \"Harvard Business Review\" of 1972. Certainly Kotler believed that he had coined the term, \"societal marketing\" and was the first to codify it within the marketing literature. Some marketing historians, notably Wilkie and Moore, have argued that a societal perspective was not new, and that evidence for it could be found in marketing theory and in marketing texts, since the discipline's inception in the early 1900s. Kotler introduced both the concept of social marketing (extending marketing technologies into non-business areas) and societal marketing, arguing that the marketing concept and its technologies must be tempered and ultimately revised by adopting a more explicit social orientation. The novelty of Kotler's concept was the idea of \"long-run consumer welfare\", emphasizing that the short-term desires might not support the consumer's long term interests or be good for the society as a whole.\n\nThe societal marketing concept adopts the position that marketers have a greater social responsibility than simply satisfying customers and providing them with superior value. Instead, marketing activities should strive to benefit society's overall well-being. Marketing organisations that have embraced the societal marketing concept typically identify key stakeholder groups including: employees, customers, local communities, the wider public and government and consider the impact of their activities on all stakeholders. They ensure that marketing activities do not damage the environment and are not hazardous to broader society. Societal marketing developed into sustainable marketing. Societal marketing requires businesses to include social, ethical and ecological considerations in product and market planning. \n\nKotler identified four categories of products, classified in terms of long term benefits and immediate satisfaction: \n\n\nKotler's concept of societal marketing suggested that for the well-being of society, deficient products should be eliminated from the market, pleasing and salutary products should go through a product modification process to acquire desirable status, by incorporating missing short term benefits into salutary products and long term benefits into pleasing products, and the companies' ultimate goal should be to develop desirable products. Rather than focusing on selling a products, which can be good or bad for the consumers, companies should focus on consumer and society's well-being.\n\nMost companies recognize that socially responsible activities improve their image among customers, stockholders, the financial community, and other relevant publics. Ethical and socially responsible practices are simply good business, resulting not only in favorable image, but ultimately in increased sales.\n\n\nSocietal marketing should not be confused with social marketing. Societal marketing is a philosophy or mindset that informs marketing decisions whereas social marketing is a distinct branch within the marketing discipline. Societal marketing is concerned with the consideration of the social and ethical aspects of marketing planning. Social marketing is concerned with facilitating social change. A key difference is that the greater 'social good' is the \"principal\" consideration in social marketing while social benefits are one of a number of considerations in societal marketing. \n\nOn the other hand, social marketing is a sub-branch of marketing that began in 1971, with the publication of an article by Kotler and Zaltman, emphasising a planned approach to achieving social change. It is primarily concerned with encouraging pro-social behaviours (e.g. recycling, sun-safety, safe driving practices) and discouraging anti-social behaviours (e.g. littering, drink-driving). It is defined as an \"adaptation of commercial marketing technologies to programs designed to influence the voluntary behavior of target audiences to improve their personal welfare and that of the society of which they are a part\". \n\nSocial marketing uses more traditional commercial techniques and strategies, focusing on persuasion, to achieve goals for the greater social good. Its campaigns can either encourage merit goods, as for example fund raising for not-for-profit organizations or dissuade the use of demerit goods promoting society's well being, as non-smoking campaigns or promote the use of seat belts. Another characteristic of social marketing is that is planned to influence individual behaviour to improve well-being. It includes more than just advertising in traditional mass media, and may extend to educational programs and formal enforcement regimes in the case of road safety campaigns. It planned campaigns, implemented by governmental and non-governmental organisations. A clear example that differentiates societal from social marketing is a marketing campaign on non-smoking. A smoking cessation advertisement is an example of social marketing, but if the marketing strategies and techniques used in that campaign focus on increasing the well-being of society, that same campaign can be an example of societal marketing.\n\nThe societal marketing concept was a forerunner of sustainable marketing in integrating issues of social responsibility into commercial marketing strategies. In contrast to that, social marketing uses commercial marketing theories, tools and techniques to influence social change. Social marketing applies a \"customer orientated\" approach and uses the concepts and tools used by commercial marketers in pursuit of social goals like Anti-Smoking-Campaigns or fund raising for NGOs.\n\nUnlike societal marketing, CSR has existed for many years. Another difference is that CSR \"focuses more in a corporate level and stakeholders\", while societal marketing is more concerned about the consumer and their long term benefits. CSR social and environmental concerns are integrated into all business operations. CSR is mainly run by companies, while social marketing mainly by Government or Non profits organizations. One example of CSR among companies is what Häagen-Dazs is doing with their \"microsite\" to raise awareness to the general public about the preservation of the honeybee.\n\nCorporations are the one who are striving during the whole time for improvements. They are turning to all kind of forms of corporate societal marketing programs to help build and repair their brand images.\n\nCorporate Social Marketing, or CSM, usually refers to marketing efforts that have at least one social related objective, such as charity founding, among its goals. Typical examples are releasing a certain percentage of the final sale product to a charity related to the product, or sponsoring events that encourage social well-being such as the Olympic Games. Corporate Social Marketing benefits a company in many ways, but its main goal is to improve the image the public has of the company. A company that appears committed to improving the lives or others, the environment or other worthy causes is seen in a better light than one who doesn't, and more and more business are hoping to benefit from that.\n\nSo, it can be so, that CSM programs are becoming extremely popular because the leaders believe that it is a good business to be viewed as a socially responsible company. However, even though past research suggests that CSM may be effective in improving brand equity and increasing market share, there are limits to the effectiveness of these initiatives.\n\nAn example of his is how corporate social initiatives adversely affected purchase intentions if consumers perceived that the company would forgo product quality in order to be socially responsible.\n\nDepending on the nature of the CSM program, the intent of the corporation may not be as obvious to the consumers. This happens if the benefits to the corporation are not apparent or conflicts with what the consumer already believes about a specific firm or industry.\n\nSince firms exist to make a profit, consumers may spend considerable energy in an attempt to infer motives related to the profit-oriented goals. As an example, a consumer may be suspicious of a tobacco company that undertakes a campaign to prevent underage smoking. If this is successful, the company would be affected and the cigarette sales will be lowered. So, in this situation, consumers' suspicions may lead them to infer motives that would actually protect the companies financial condition – as they are trying to improve their image to sell more cigarettes to adults. However, if a tobacco company undertook a CSM Campaign, that would sustain their business consumers may be able to infer profit motives more easily and then have a more favorable attitude toward the partnership. Therefore, it can be concluded that the attitude of the consumers could be better if they knew more about the motives of the companies and they were more obvious.\n\nAnother aspect that may cause suspicion with consumers is the amount of harm that a company has already done, either because of unsafe products or harmful production practices. It is logical that consumers are more suspicious to companies that sell harmful products. Again examples are the tobacco companies and alcohol companies as well. They will meet resistance from consumers when they undertake socially-oriented campaigns aimed at mitigating the effects of their products. That is why when different industries are separated, two very general dimensions are used – the harmful nature of the products and the harmful nature of the production methods.\n\nThis classification can briefly show how consumer are influenced by the various CSM efforts. Companies that work in this \"dangerous\" industries are not that successful always, because the consumers may be suspicious of any societal efforts the company attempts to undertake. Consumers will infer less society-serving motives and more self-serving motives for corporate societal marketing programs undertaken by firms that operate in mixed or sin industries.\n\nBased on how easily consumers could infer profit-driven motives, are classified the types of CSM campaigns: Positively tied to product sales, positively tied to product sales, not directly tied to sales but aimed at sustaining the company's business, completely unrelated.\n\nSocietal marketing has been the subject of a number of criticisms: \n\nA key issue concerns the question of who decides what is in the public’s best interests. The moral agenda implicit in the societal marketing concept is underdeveloped and often implicit. Gaski argued that marketers should step away from their classic goal of customer satisfaction and profit maximization while respecting the minimum governmental standards imposed by law and enter this public policy area, since marketers themselves would have to decide what actions are consistent with public welfare. Marketers might have neither the competence nor the right to determine the \"public interest.\" Instead, it should be the customers who decide what is good for them, or their political representatives and dictate that to the industry. \n\nSome scholars have argued that societal marketing is not a distinct concept, but rather it is a mere extension of the marketing concept. Others have pointed out that the literature in the field is vague, poorly defined and underdeveloped. The societal marketing concept has become an excellent strategy for promotions with social dimensions and for exploring consumers' behavioural response to such corporate 'doing good'.\n\nSocietal marketing is gaining the marketers and consumer attention and there is every reason to expect it to continue to evolve in practice. It focuses on providing win-win opportunities to companies, consumers and society. But achieving the compelling benefits for each party involved is very complicated. So much more research is needed. To achieve a win situation for organization involved, is dependent largely upon how the key constituents react. In this context, anticipating consumer reaction is really challenging which can be affected by number of factors that often vary across different segments. The several research questions remain to be answered like how different factors affects reaction to societal marketing and how do the various factors interact? How can societal initiatives be designed to leverage positive reaction and mitigate negative ones? \n\nFor consumers to win, societal marketing must provide them with compelling benefits that increase their overall welfare. What benefits did societal marketing initiative actually provided to consumers? Are there direct benefits such as increased satisfaction with their interaction with commercial or nonprofit organization?\nDetermining whether there is a win situation for society by societal marketing initiative is the most difficult question to be answered. We turn to the two questions proposed by Bloom, Hussien and Szykmann (1995): Is the society better off because of this program? Does corporate involvement result in better performance than if it would have been managed by NGOs or government agencies? \nSocietal marketing is becoming globally popular but there exist a scarcity of research in this field. Therefore extensive future research is needed particularly investigating questions with respect to its impact on consumer attitudes to corporate image, product image and their purchase intention or brand choice as well as on positive impact on society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19818206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19818206", "title": "Sustainopreneurship", "text": "Sustainopreneurship\n\nSustainopreneurship (entrepreneurship and innovation for sustainability) is a concept that has emerged from the earlier concepts social entrepreneurship and ecopreneurship, via sustainability entrepreneurship. The concept means to use creative business organizing to solve problems related to sustainability to create social and environmental sustainability as a strategic objective and purpose, at the same time respecting the boundaries set in order to maintain the life support systems in the process. In other words, it is a \"business with a cause\" – where the world problems are turned into business opportunities by deployment of sustainability innovations. \n\nThe definition first introduced in a conference article in 2006:\n\n\nThe business world has been nominated as a premier force for creating a sustainable world, especially when acting as a source of innovation and creativity – e. g. as Robinson (2004:378) puts it:\n\nSustainopreneurship is a candidate to be the accentuating factor to give even more leverage to forces emerging from world of business activities to contribute to sustainability. The concept of sustainopreneurship was first introduced as a term in 2000 where it was predominantly related to the proactive change management approaches associated with process adjustment with increased respect to the environment. The phenomenon developed with publications in 2003, and further evolved and was tentatively defined in 2006 by Anders Abrahamsson. This tentative definition was empirically tested in his Master thesis, where the enactive research process confirmed that the definition stood the test contrasting it towards the auto-ethnographical empirical material. A paper to identify future research challenges was made beyond this in 2007, and developed further with a book chapter published in September 2008.\n\nIn general, the entrepreneurial discourse has opened up to move beyond a strictly economic phenomenon, rather than being perceived primarily as a social process at large. Preceding the conceptual formation were two traces of social entrepreneurship and eco-preneurship, dealing primarily with the social and ecological dimensions of sustainability. Primary associations with social entrepreneurship have also been establishing not-for-profit venturing and charities to innovatively address and solve social problems, whereas ecopreneurship has been primarily focused on solving environmental problems. See Principles of ecopreneurship.\n\nBoth these traces of conceptual development are taken beyond, merge and integrate into the suggested conceptual construct at hand, where distinctions are made from both of these concepts – sustainopreneurial processes taking place institutionally through for-profit organizing, but not with profit as its main driving force. Sustainopreneurial venturing is done in a holistic manner that meets both ecological and social challenges simultaneously with regard to both purpose and process. \n\nThe definition of sustainopreneurship needs to be highlighted by three distinguishing dimensions with all three being simultaneously present in the applied (inter)action it reflects. The first is oriented towards \"why\" – its purpose and motive. The second and third are reflecting two \"how\"-related dimensions – its process. \n\n1. Sustainopreneurship consciously sets out to find and/or create innovations to solve sustainability-related problems\n\n2. Sustainopreneurship means to get solutions to the market through creative organizing \n\n3. Sustainopreneurship in process adds sustainability value with respect for life support systems \n\nWith these dimensions clarified and distinctions made a common conceptual vagueness or lack of clarity needs to be addressed, where a strong need to distinguish clearly between sustainable, vs. \"sustainability\" entrepreneurship is identified. From this point of view, a very important distinction with the concept formed is claimed – \"sustainability\" entrepreneurship as in the concept \"sustainopreneurship; \"the use of entrepreneurial activity in a \"determined action orientation towards solving a sustainability-related problem\" with (creative) business organizing as a \"means\" to solve the problem(s) – business with a cause: to turn business activity from a part of the problem to a part of the solution.\" Sustainable\" entrepreneurship is just a generic entrepreneurial process that takes into consideration the boundaries set by sustainability, and does not address where to and why, the destination, the purpose or the aim of the venture. The strategic intent and the business idea in itself are not related to sustainability \"per se,\" sustainability just being an \"attachment\" to the entrepreneurial process. The second and third dimensions are represented, but not the first. \"Sustainability\" entrepreneurship, in contrast, takes as its root of existence and strategic aim to solve a sustainability-related problem. This means that all three dimensions are simultaneously present: to take a sustainability innovation to the market through creative organizing with respect for life-supporting systems in the process.\n\nGiven its recent date, there is a need for future research, as mentioned above. Main findings here are that conceptually, a deeper analysis is needed to be conducted with a nuanced and detailed taxonomy and framework created of sustainability innovations, the core of sustainopreneurship, primarily by cataloging and categorizing case stories. It is also needed to make a more detailed description to relate sustainopreneurship to other concepts in the wider, general idea-sphere of the \"business case of sustainability\", in the contemporary plethora of \"buzz-words\", approaches, methods and acronyms that already exists – and in this context also to motivate why this concept adds value. \n\nIt has been recommended, though, to keep the research applied, to identify obstacles and institutional barriers, and how to overcome them; i. e. facilitating factors for sustainopreneurship, researching prospective tools, enablers and approaches. Appropriate areas and domains for sustainopreneurship applied are recommended to be digested. Research methods recommended are Enactive Research and Open Space Technology, since they add instant value among stakeholders, and in themselves naturally builds arenas where sustainopreneurship evolves and proliferates. For progress, beyond these \"how\"-related pointers, the key is to single out \"the big questions\", getting answers through collaborative, collective dialogue and conversation, with an explicit interaction and results orientation. Issues and topics have been formulated and outlined, where it is of striking importance with an intention to attract authentic forces potentially hearing this call of exploring the phenomenon further, with the purpose to collapse the degrees of separation in between the stakeholders of the sustainopreneurial concept – in idea, reflective practice and applied interaction to generate collective and collaborative wisdom for a deeper understanding of the concept. An association with this purpose is in its interim stages, ÆREAS(i).\n\n"}
{"id": "2612942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2612942", "title": "Svein Aaser", "text": "Svein Aaser\n\nSvein Aaser (born 7 October 1946) is a former CEO of DnB NOR, the largest financial group in Norway. He resigned on 31 December 2006. He is chair of FIS Nordic World Ski Championships 2011 and the National Gallery of Norway\n\nAaser was born in Fredrikstad, Norway and was educated at the Norwegian School of Economics (NHH) where he received his MBA in 1970. By 1976, he had graduated from the Lausanne IMEDE's Program for Executive Development. After obtaining his MBA (1970) he worked his way up in businesses starting as assistant to deputy managing director for Tank Nielsen, M. Peterson & Søn, Moss. From there he became marketing manager of Sarpsborg Papp, Div. Kartong, managing director for NORA matprodukter and of Storebrand Skade.\n\nDuring a period of ten years starting in 1987 he was president and CEO of Hafslund Nycomed who changed its name after the acquisition of Nycomed. The year after saw him deputy CEO and chief executive officer of a subsidiary company called Imaging Nycomed Amersham. In 1998 he was appointed CEO of Den norske Bank, later the merged DnB NOR.\n\nIn 2008 he was appointed chairman of the board of the National Gallery of Norway. He has also been the chairman of Marine Harvest, but stepped down in January 2010. He also chairs Statkraft. From 2012 to 2015 he was chairman of the board of Telenor.\n"}
{"id": "755454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=755454", "title": "Terminal Tower", "text": "Terminal Tower\n\nTerminal Tower is a 52-story, , landmark skyscraper located on Public Square in downtown Cleveland, Ohio, United States. Built during the skyscraper boom of the 1920s and 1930s, it was the second-tallest building in the world when it was completed. Terminal Tower stood as the tallest building in North America outside of New York City from its completion in 1930 until 1964. It was the tallest building in the state of Ohio until the completion of Key Tower in 1991, and remains the second-tallest building in the state. The building is part of the Tower City Center mixed-use development, and its major tenants include Forest City Enterprises, former owner of the building, which maintained its corporate headquarters there until 2018, and Riverside Company.\n\nThe tower, owned by Forest City Realty Trust since 1983, was purchased by Cleveland's K&D Management, LLC September 15, 2016 for $38.5 million. K&D plans to add a mixed-use element to the building, converting 12 of the lower, larger floors to residential use, with 293 one and two bedroom apartments. Many older downtown Cleveland office buildings are undergoing similar conversions. The largest privately held owner/manager of apartment buildings in the area, K&D will maintain the upper floors of the building as office space. Construction is planned to start in 2018, with a completion date of 2020.\n\nBuilt for $179 million by the Van Sweringen brothers, the tower was to serve as an office building atop the city's new rail station, the Cleveland Union Terminal. Originally planned to be 14 stories, the structure was expanded to 52 floors with a height of . It rests on caissons. Designed by the firm of Graham, Anderson, Probst & White, the tower was modeled after the Beaux-Arts New York Municipal Building by McKim, Mead, and White. The Terminal Tower opened for tenants in 1928, though the Union Terminal complex wasn't dedicated until 1930.\n\nIt remained the tallest building in the world outside of New York City until the completion of the main building of Moscow State University in Moscow in 1953; it was the tallest building in North America outside of New York until the Prudential Center in Boston, Massachusetts, was completed in 1964.\n\nRadio station WHK placed antennas on the building to increase the range of its 1420 kHz signal.\n\nIn the 1980s, developers sought approval to make their proposed BP Building taller than the Terminal Tower, but city officials forced them to scale it down. The Terminal Tower remained the tallest building in Ohio until the 1991 completion of Society Center, now Key Tower.\n\nOn a clear day, visitors on the observation deck can see from downtown Cleveland.\n\nOn August 26, 1976, gunman Ashby Leach stormed a Chessie System conference room on the 42nd floor. Leach, who was disgruntled with Chessie System's decision not to pay into a G.I. Bill fund that would have increased his wages and benefits during his apprenticeship with the company, held 13 hostages before his arrest. He was jailed for three months pending trial, then was acquitted of kidnapping and convicted of assault, extortion, and carrying an illegal weapon. Upon his release, he embarked on a speaking tour for the group Vietnam Veterans Against the War. After the hostage incident, direct access to the floor was removed. The observation deck reopened after Chessie left the building.\n\nAfter the September 11, 2001 attacks, the observation deck was again closed to the public. In 2007, a proposal was brought to Forest City to reopen the deck. The proposal included a renovation of the deck and the addition of an express elevator to take visitors to it. This was to be done after the upper floors were renovated and the scaffolding removed. In 2010, Forest City Enterprises finished renovating the complex's elevators, upper floors, and spire. The observation deck reopened on July 10, 2010 for a limited period, with plans to expand public access.\n\nTo reach the observation deck, visitors take the elevator to the 32nd floor and then transfer to another elevator to reach the 42nd floor. Before its original closure, the deck was open only on weekends to prevent disruption to the law firm that has offices on the 32nd floor.\n\nThe Terminal Tower was lit when it opened in 1930. A strobe light on top of the tower rotated 360 degrees. It helped ships in Cleveland's port and airplane pilots landing at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.\n\nThe external spotlights that lit the tower at night were turned off as a safety measure at the beginning of World War II. They were not turned on again until September 22, 1974. They were relit on the same day that the annual Greater Cleveland United Torch Drive (a precursor to the United Way) began. Lights were installed on the 44th, 48th, and 52nd floors. In the 1960s, the strobe was retired and replaced with conventional aircraft warning lights. The tower only once went dark, during the 2003 blackout.\n\nToday, the tower's external lights include 508 LEDs that can be configured into various color schemes, such as red and green during the Christmas season and red, white, and blue for various federal holidays.\n\nMany Cleveland social and medical groups light Terminal Tower for their causes. In February, Terminal Tower is red for the American Heart Association Go Red for Women campaign, and pink for Breast Cancer Awareness month in October. Some of Cleveland's ethnic groups have had the Terminal Tower lit in their traditional colors, such as green on Saint Patrick's Day. On Polish Constitution Day, usually May 3, Cleveland's Pol-Am community lights the tower in white and red (Polish flag colors), and the tower goes red, green, and white (Italian flag colors) for Columbus Day.\n\nTerminal Tower also sports the colors of the various sports teams in town, such as red, white, and blue for the Cleveland Indians, orange and brown for the Cleveland Browns, and wine and gold for the Cleveland Cavaliers. During the 2014 Gay Games, the tower was lit in a rainbow pattern (representing the gay pride flag). In January 2015, Terminal Tower was lit in scarlet and gray in support of the Ohio State Buckeyes during the football team's National Championship run as Cleveland has a large OSU fan and alumni base.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42868718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42868718", "title": "Thomas J. Bray", "text": "Thomas J. Bray\n\nThomas J. Bray (c. 1867 − 11 December 1933) was an American businessman. He was educated in Pittsburgh, and began work at age 16 as a pattern-making apprentice for the Lewis Foundry and Machine Company, eventually becoming chief draughtsman. In 1890 he went back to school, acquiring a mechanical engineering degree from Lehigh University. After graduating in 1894 he worked for the Ohio Steel Company, McGill and Company, and United Engineering and Foundry Company, where he was chief engineer from 1901 to 1906. He joined the Republic Iron and Steel Company in 1906, and became its president in April 1911. He kept that post until April 1928, when he became a director of the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company. He died suddenly on 11 December 1933 in his office in Youngstown.\n"}
{"id": "36159077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36159077", "title": "Unemployment insurance in Japan", "text": "Unemployment insurance in Japan\n\n, also known as is the \"user pays\" system of unemployment benefits that operate in Japan. It is paired with and referred to collectively as . It is managed by Hello Work.\n\nJapanese unemployment insurance is closer to the US or Canadian \"user pays\" system than the taxpayer funded systems in place in countries such as the United Kingdom, New Zealand, or Australia. It is paid for by contributions by both the employer and employee.\n\nWorkers enrolling in unemployment insurance must be working at least 20 hours per week, and to expect to be employed for at least 31 days. Employees who are dispatched to Japan from overseas and who already have coverage in a similar scheme are not required to enroll in Japanese unemployment insurance.\n\nOn leaving a job, employees are supposed to be given a \"Rishoku-hyo\" document showing their ID number (the same number is supposed to be used by later employers), employment periods, and pay (which contributions are linked to). The reason for leaving is also documented separately.\n\nPremiums are calculated as a certain percentage of each worker's total wage. Under the latest revision in April 2016, the insurance premium rate is 1.10% (the employer paying 0.7% and the worker paying 0.4%) with the exception of a few kinds of jobs.\n\nThe circumstances under which an employee left their position affect eligibility, timing, and amount of benefits. The length of time that unemployed workers can receive benefits depends on the age of the employee, and how long they have been employed and paying in.\n\nIt is supposed to be compulsory for most full-time employees. If they have been enrolled for at least six months and are fired or made redundant, leave the company at the end of their contract, or their contract is non-renewed, the now-unemployed worker will receive unemployment insurance. If a worker quit of their own accord they may have to wait between one and three months before receiving any payment.\n\nIn July 2016 Japan's unemployment rate was 3%. Japan's unemployment rate has remained relatively low over the years. However July 2016 set the record low in twenty-one years. Despite this recent record low unemployment, Japan has record high job availability. Japan's unemployment rate might fall even lower based on their job availability. Japan's welfare state utilizes an egalitarian principle designed at providing equal aid to all individuals. This style facilitates maintaining low unemployment percentage, high job availability percentage, and a growing economy. Although unemployment rates are dynamic there are many intervening variables correlating to its growth or decline.\n\n"}
{"id": "14040991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14040991", "title": "William Street (Manhattan)", "text": "William Street (Manhattan)\n\nWilliam Street is a street in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan, New York City. It runs generally southwest to northeast, crossing Wall Street and terminating at Broad Street and Spruce Street, respectively. Between Beaver Street and Broad Street, the street is known as South William Street. Between Beekman Street and Spruce Street, in front of New York Downtown Hospital, William Street is pedestrian-only.\n\nIt is one of the oldest streets in Manhattan and can be seen in the 1660 Castello Plan of New Amsterdam. It was originally called King Street, but was later renamed William after Willem Beekman who arrived in New Amsterdam in 1647 as a fellow passenger of Peter Stuyvesant. Beekman got his start as a Dutch West India Company clerk and later served nine terms as mayor of the young port city.\n\nThe buildings on South William Street 13-23 were reconstructed in the Dutch revival style by architect C. P. H. Gilbert and later Edward L. Tilton in the early 1900s, evoking New Amsterdam with the use of red brick as building material and the features of stepped gables. The area was declared a historic district in 1996 by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission.\n\nThe buildings on William Street tend to cater to the financial underpinnings of the area and include luxury condominiums, offices, and at least one conference center. Notable buildings fronting William Street include:\n\n\nThe IRT Broadway – Seventh Avenue Line () of the New York City Subway runs under William Street, with stops at Wall Street and Fulton Street.\n"}
