{"id": "39236854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39236854", "title": "1961 Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference", "text": "1961 Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference\n\nThe 1961 Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference was the eleventh Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations. It was held in the United Kingdom in March 1961, and was hosted by that country's Prime Minister, Harold Macmillan.\n\nWhile Commonwealth conferences were normally held biennially, this conference was held after an interval of only a year as the May 1960 conference due to disagreement over South Africa and whether the country should be removed from the Commonwealth due to its policy of racial segregation with Malaya's Prime Minister demanding South Africa's expulsion. \n\nSouth African Prime Minister H.F. Verwoerd, attended the conference to give formal notice that his country was to become a republic in May 1961 after having approved the constitutional change in an October 1960 referendum. South Africa's application was opposed by the leaders of African states under black majority rule, as well as Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Malaya's Tunku Abdul Rahman, and the other non-white Commonwealth countries as well as Canadian prime minister John Diefenbaker due to South Africa's policy of apartheid. Canada was the only member of the old white Commonwealth to oppose South Africa's application. The \"Keep South Africa In\" group included Britain's Harold Macmillan, Rhodesia and Nyasaland's Roy Welensky, Australia's Robert Menzies and Keith Holyoake of New Zealand. Canadian prime minister John Diefenbaker proposed that South Africa only be re-admitted if it joined other states in condemning apartheid in principle. Once it became clear that South Africa's membership would be rejected, Verwoerd withdrew his country's application and left the conference.\n\nConcerns were also expressed about Britain's prospective membership in the Common Market and the possible impact on trade relations between the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth also expressed its support for worldwide disarmament \"subject to effective inspection and control\". \n\nCyprus' application to join the Commonwealth, following its independence the previous year, was approved over the opposition of the United Kingdom which objected as Cyprus had not applied for membership prior to independence as had been customary. Cyprus' President, Archbishop Makarios III, joined the conference once the decision on his country's membership was made. The membership application of Sierra Leone was also accepted and became effective upon its independence on 27 April. \n\nThis was the first Commonwealth conference in which one of the heads of government was a woman, Sirimavo Ratwatte Dias Bandaranaike, who was also the first female prime minister in the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "24926282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24926282", "title": "1970s energy crisis", "text": "1970s energy crisis\n\nThe 1970s energy crisis was a period when the major industrial countries of the world, particularly the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia, and New Zealand, faced substantial petroleum shortages, real and perceived, as well as elevated prices. The two worst crises of this period were the 1973 oil crisis and the 1979 energy crisis, when the Yom Kippur War and the Iranian Revolution triggered interruptions in Middle Eastern oil exports.\n\nThe crisis began to unfold as petroleum production in the United States and some other parts of the world peaked in the late 1960s and early 1970s. World oil production per capita began a long-term decline after 1979.\n\nThe major industrial centers of the world were forced to contend with escalating issues related to petroleum supply. Western countries relied on the resources of potentially unfriendly countries in the Middle East and other parts of the world.\n\nThe crisis led to stagnant economic growth in many countries as oil prices surged. Although there were genuine concerns with supply, part of the run-up in prices resulted from the perception of a crisis. The combination of stagnant growth and price inflation during this era led to the coinage of the term \"stagflation\".\n\nBy the 1980s, both the recessions of the 1970s and adjustments in local economies to become more efficient in petroleum usage, controlled demand sufficiently for petroleum prices worldwide to return to more sustainable levels.\n\nThe period was not uniformly negative for all economies. Petroleum-rich countries in the Middle East benefited from increased prices and the slowing production in other areas of the world. Some other countries, such as Norway, Mexico, and Venezuela, benefited as well. In the United States, Texas and Alaska, as well as some other oil-producing areas, experienced major economic booms due to soaring oil prices even as most of the rest of the nation struggled with the stagnant economy. Many of these economic gains, however, came to a halt as prices stabilized and dropped in the 1980s.\n\nDuring the 1960s, petroleum production in some of the world's top producers began to peak. Germany reached its production peak in 1966, Venezuela and the United States in 1970, and Iran in 1974. Canada's conventional oil production peaked around this same time (though non-conventional production later helped revive Canadian production to some degree). The worldwide production per capita peaked soon afterward.\n\nAlthough production in other parts of the world was increasing, the peaks in these regions began to put substantial upward pressure on world oil prices. Equally as important, control of the oil supply became an increasingly important problem as countries like West Germany and the U.S. became increasingly dependent on foreign suppliers for this key resource.\n\nThe 1973 oil crisis is a direct consequence of the US production peak in late 1960 and the beginning of 1971 (and shortages, especially for heating oil, started from there). The \"embargo\" as described below is the \"practical name\" given to the crisis. For the main Arab producers, the \"embargo\" allowed them to show to \"the Arab street\" that they were doing something for the Palestinians. In real market terms (number of barrels) the embargo was almost a non-event, and only from a few countries, towards a few countries.\n\nIt should also be noted that the \"Embargo\" was never effective from Saudi Arabia towards the US, as reported by James Akins in interview at 24:10 in the documentary \"la face cachée du pétrole part 2\". James Akins, who audited US capacity for Nixon after US peak, was US ambassador in Saudi Arabia at that time.\nLawrence Rocks and Richard Runyon captured the unfolding of these events at the time in The Energy Crisis book. \nIn October 1973, the members of Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries or the OAPEC (consisting of the Arab members of OPEC) proclaimed an oil embargo \"in response to the U.S. decision to re-supply the Israeli military\" during the Yom Kippur war; it lasted until March 1974. OAPEC declared it would limit or stop oil shipments to the United States and other countries if they supported Israel in the conflict. With the US actions seen as initiating the oil embargo, the long-term possibility of embargo-related high oil prices, disrupted supply and recession, created a strong rift within NATO; both European countries and Japan sought to disassociate themselves from the US Middle East policy. Arab oil producers had also linked the end of the embargo with successful US efforts to create peace in the Middle East, which complicated the situation. To address these developments, the Nixon Administration began parallel negotiations with both Arab oil producers to end the embargo, and with Egypt, Syria, and Israel to arrange an Israeli pull back from the Sinai and the Golan Heights after the fighting stopped. By January 18, 1974, Secretary of State Henry Kissinger had negotiated an Israeli troop withdrawal from parts of the Sinai. The promise of a negotiated settlement between Israel and Syria was sufficient to convince Arab oil producers to lift the embargo in March 1974. By May, Israel agreed to withdraw from the Golan Heights.\n\nIndependently, the OPEC members agreed to use their leverage over the world price-setting mechanism for oil to stabilize their real incomes by raising world oil prices. This action followed several years of steep income declines after the recent failure of negotiations with the major Western oil companies earlier in the month.\n\nFor the most part, industrialized economies relied on crude oil, and OPEC was their major supplier. Because of the dramatic inflation experienced during this period, a popular economic theory has been that these price increases were to blame, as being suppressive of economic activity. However, the causality stated by this theory is often questioned. The targeted countries responded with a wide variety of new, and mostly permanent, initiatives to contain their further dependency. The 1973 \"oil price shock\", along with the 1973–1974 stock market crash, have been regarded as the first event since the Great Depression to have a persistent economic effect.\n\nA crisis emerged in the United States in 1979 during the wake of the Iranian Revolution. Amid massive protests, the Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, fled his country in early 1979, allowing the Ayatollah Khomeini to gain control. The protests shattered the Iranian oil sector. While the new regime resumed oil exports, it was inconsistent and at a lower volume, forcing prices to go up. Saudi Arabia and other OPEC nations, under the presidency of Dr. Mana Alotaiba increased production to offset the decline, and the overall loss in production was about 4 percent. However, a widespread panic resulted, driving the price far higher than would be expected under normal circumstances.\n\nIn 1980, following the , oil production in Iran nearly stopped, and Iraq's oil production was severely cut as well.\n\nAfter 1980, oil prices began a decline as other countries began to fill the production shortfalls from Iran and Iraq.\n\nThe 1973 and 1979 energy crisis had caused petroleum prices to peak in 1980 at over US$35 per barrel (US$ in today's dollars). Following these events slowing industrial economies and stabilization of supply and demand caused prices to begin falling in the 1980s. The glut began in the early 1980s as a result of slowed economic activity in industrial countries (due to the 1973 and 1979 energy crises) and the energy conservation spurred by high fuel prices. The inflation adjusted real 2004 dollar value of oil fell from an average of $78.2 per barrel in 1981 to an average of $26.8 in 1986.\n\nIn June 1981, \"The New York Times\" stated an \"Oil glut! ... is here\" and \"Time Magazine\" stated: \"the world temporarily floats in a glut of oil,\" though the next week a New York Times article warned that the word \"glut\" was misleading, and that in reality, while temporary surpluses had brought down prices somewhat, prices were still well above pre-energy crisis levels. This sentiment was echoed in November 1981, when the CEO of Exxon Corp also characterized the glut as a temporary surplus, and that the word \"glut\" was an example of \"our American penchant for exaggerated language.\" He wrote that the main cause of the glut was declining consumption. In the United States, Europe and Japan, oil consumption had fallen 13% from 1979 to 1981, due to \"in part, in reaction to the very large increases in oil prices by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil exporters,\" continuing a trend begun during the 1973 price increases.\n\nAfter 1980, reduced demand and overproduction produced a glut on the world market, causing a six-year-long decline in oil prices culminating with a 46 percent price drop in 1986.\n\nThe decade of the 1970s was a period of limited economic growth due in part to the energy crises of that decade. Although the mid decade was the worst period for the United States the economy was generally weak until the 1980s. The period marked the end of the general post-World War II economic boom. It differed from many previous recessions as being a stagflation, where high unemployment coincided with high inflation.\n\nOther causes that contributed to the recession included the Vietnam War, which turned out costly for the United States of America and the fall of the Bretton Woods system. The emergence of newly industrialized countries rose competition in the metal industry, triggering a steel crisis, where industrial core areas in North America and Europe were forced to re-structure. The 1973–1974 stock market crash made the recession evident.\n\nAccording to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the recession in the United States lasted from November 1973 to March 1975. Although the economy was expanding from 1975 to the first recession of the early 1980s, which began in January 1980, inflation remained extremely high for the rest of the decade.\n\nDuring this recession, the Gross Domestic Product of the United States fell 3.2 percent. Although the recession ended in March 1975, the unemployment rate did not peak for several months. In May 1975, the rate reached its height for the cycle of 9 percent. (Only two cycles have higher peaks than this, the current cycle, where the unemployment rate is currently 9.7% in the United States and the early 1980s recession where unemployment peaked at 10.8% in November and December 1982.)\n\nThe recession also lasted from 1973–75 in the United Kingdom. The GDP declined by 3.9% or 3.37% depending on the source. It took 14 quarters for the UK's GDP to recover to that at the start of recession.\n\nAs a result of the 1973 crisis many nations created strategic petroleum reserves (SPRs), crude oil inventories (or stockpiles) held by the governments of particular countries or private industry, for the purpose of providing economic and national security during an energy crisis. According to the United States Energy Information Administration, approximately of oil are held in strategic reserves, of which 1.4 billion is government-controlled. The remainder is held by private industry. At the moment the US Strategic Petroleum Reserve is one of the largest strategic reserves, with much of the remainder held by the other 26 members of the International Energy Agency. Recently, other non-IEA countries have begun creating their own strategic petroleum reserves, with China being the largest of these new reserves. Since current consumption levels are neighboring /day, in the case of a dramatic worldwide drop in oil field output as suggested by some peak oil analysts , the strategic petroleum reserves are unlikely to last for more than a few months.\n\nSince Israel's declaration of independence in 1948 this state has found itself in nearly continual conflict with the Arab world and some other predominantly Muslim countries. The animosity between the Arabs and the Israelis became a global issue during the 1970s. The Yom Kippur War of 1973, with the supplying of Israel by its Western allies while some Arab states received Soviet supplies, made this one of the most internationally threatening confrontations of the period.\n\nThe large oil discoveries in the Middle East and southwestern Asia, and the peaking of production in some of the more industrialized areas of the world gave some Muslim countries unique leverage in the world, beginning in the 1960s. The 1973 and 1979 crises, in particular, were demonstrations of the new power that these countries had found. The United States and other countries were forced to become more involved in the conflicts between these states and Israel leading to peace initiatives such as the Camp David Accords.\n\nOne of the first challenges OPEC faced in the 1970s was the United States' unilaterally pulling out of the Bretton Woods Accord and taking the U.S. off the established Gold Exchange Standard in 1971. With that standard, only the value of the U.S. dollar was pegged to the price of gold and all other currencies were pegged to the U.S. dollar. The change resulted in instability in world currencies and depreciation of the value of the U.S. dollar, as well as other currencies, and decreasing real revenues for OPEC whose producers still priced oil in dollars.\n\nOPEC was slow to adjust to the situation but finally made the decision to price oil against gold. Frustrated negotiations between OPEC and the major oil companies to revise the oil price agreement as well as the ongoing Middle East conflicts continued to stall OPEC's efforts at stabilization through this era.\n\nThe major oil-producing regions of the U.S.—Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Colorado, Wyoming, and Alaska—benefited greatly from the price inflation of the 1970s as did the U.S. oil industry in general. Oil prices generally increased throughout the decade; between 1978 and 1980 the price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil increased 250 percent. Although all states felt the effects of the stock market crash and related national economic problems, the economic benefits of increased oil revenue in the Oil Patch states generally offset much of this.\n\n"}
{"id": "20430891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20430891", "title": "American Hellenic Institute", "text": "American Hellenic Institute\n\nThe American Hellenic Institute (AHI) is a Greek American organization created in 1974 to strengthen US-Greece and US-Cyprus relations, as well as relations within Hellenic-American community. The group has a lobbying focus, which distinguishes it from the other organizations associated with AHI.\n\nThe American Hellenic Institute was created on August 1, 1974, by Eugene Rossides in response to the Turkish occupation of Cyprus. The Institute argued that Turkey had violated the US Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and Foreign Military Sales Act, in that Turkish forces were purportedly using American weapons. They called upon Henry Kissinger, who would be a perennial obstacle to the AHI's goals, to condemn Turkey and to deny it further sales and aid until all Turkish troops were withdrawn from the soil of Cyprus. This petition was denied, but under continued pressure from AHI, Congress decided on an arms embargo toward Turkey. In December 1974, an AHI-sponsored $25 million Congressional aid package to Cyprus was approved.\n\nOther groups include:\n\nAHI has been a part of many political activities and lobbying actions. Representatives of AHI have testified before Congress with great frequency on topics related to their interests, usually foreign aid proposals for Cyprus, Greece, Albania, Turkey, or the Republic of Macedonia.\n\nAHI was integral in the movement to change the 7:10 power-sharing ratio on Cyprus to 1:1, which they perceived as more equitable. AHI both opposed American support of the 2004 Annan Plan for unification of Cyprus, calling the plan \"undemocratic\" and \"unworkable.\" Each presidential election year, a policy statement is sent to the candidates by AHI and its affiliates informing them of issues of interest to the Greek-American community. In September 2008, the American Hellenic Institute contacted all members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, asking them to submit questions about American policy toward Cyprus to the new US Ambassador to Turkey, James F. Jeffrey. AHI has sponsored legislative conferences, notably in 1997, when three one-day Legislative Policy Conferences were held in New York City, Los Angeles, and Chicago to highlight contributions by grassroots activists in the Greek-American community and to coordinate stances among Greek-American groups.\n\n\nThe issues outlined in the AHI policy letters sent to presidential candidates Obama and McCain were typical of policy points that AHI advocates. First and foremost was the question of American policy on Cyprus. The removal of all Turkish troops and the peaceful unification of the island feature prominently as goals in most Greek-American lobbying. In the event of continued Turkish military presence on Cyprus, AHI advised the application of economic sanctions and an arms embargo against Turkey because of restriction of human rights and lack of cooperation with American aims.\n\nThe letter also called for reinforcement of maritime borders and airspace in the Aegean, which Turkey has purportedly repeatedly violated. AHI also urges the Republic of Macedonia to negotiate in good faith with Greece to resolve the name issue and find a mutually-acceptable solution to the name to be used by the Republic of Macedonia for all purposes. AHI maintains that the Republic of Macedonia should immediately cease their propaganda against Greece, propaganda which violates the U.N.-brokered Interim Accord between the Republic of Macedonia and Greece, as stated in Article 7 paragraph 1 of the Accord which was signed in New York, September 13, 1995. Since antiquity the name Macedonia has referred to a geographical region and not to a nationality. Geographic Macedonia is within the borders of at least three countries. Only a small portion of geographic Macedonia lies within the Republic of Macedonia, whose population is one-third Albanian and two-thirds Slavic in origin, yet the government of the Republic of Macedonia continues to make territorial claims on parts of Greece (the largest part of geographic Macedonia lies within Greece in the Greek province of Macedonia). Finally, the policy letters strongly suggested the inclusion of Greece in the American visa waiver program and the application of American pressure to ensure protection of the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople and Greek Orthodox theological centers in Turkey.\n\nAHI reached its peak of power in the late 1970s, due to the urgency of the situation on Cyprus at the time, in accordance with the theory of functionalism. Additional factors in AHI's high levels of influence at the time include the demise of the divisive Greek junta, a \"new wave\" of Greek immigration to the US, and the placement of many Greek-Americans in high levels in American politics and business. The organization did, however, face considerable opposition from the executive branch of government, notably as represented in the person of Henry Kissinger. By the 1980s and after, AHI had declined somewhat in influence, although, as mentioned earlier, they continued to be active in the political arena. Their relative decline can be attributed to a variety of factors, among them the fact that the Greek-American community had more issues by then to collectively tackle than that of the Cyprus conflict.\n\n"}
{"id": "196570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196570", "title": "Christian Coalition of America", "text": "Christian Coalition of America\n\nThe Christian Coalition of America (CCA), a 501(c)(4) organization, is the successor to the original Christian Coalition created in 1989 by religious broadcaster and former presidential candidate Marion Gordon \"Pat\" Robertson. This US Christian advocacy group includes members of various Christian denominations, including Baptists (50%), mainline Protestants (25%), Roman Catholics (16%), Pentecostals (10% to 15%), among communicants of other Churches.\n\nIn 1988, following a well-funded but failed bid for the U.S. presidency, Pat Robertson, a religious broadcaster and political commentator, used the remainder of his campaign resources to jump-start the formation of a voter-mobilization effort dubbed the Christian Coalition. \"Americans for Robertson\" accumulated a mailing list of several million conservative Christians interested in politics. This mailing provided the basis of the new organization.\n\nThe coalition had four original directors: Robertson; his son Gordon Robertson; Dick Weinhold, head of the Texas organization; and, Billy McCormack, pastor of the University Worship Center in Shreveport, Louisiana. McCormack had headed the Louisiana division of \"Americans for Robertson\" in 1988 and was also the vice president of the coalition.\n\nAfter its founding, the Christian Coalition applied to become a tax-exempt charitable organization with the Internal Revenue Service. Forty-nine state chapters formed as independent corporations within their states, including the Christian Coalition of Texas. A handful, including the Christian Coalition of Texas, successfully obtained tax-exempt status as social-welfare organizations. After ten years, the Internal Revenue Service declined the Christian Coalition's application for charitable status because it engaged in political activities. In response, the Christian Coalition of Texas was renamed the Christian Coalition of America, and the organization relocated in order to work nationwide.\n\nIn 1990, the national Christian Coalition, Inc., headquartered in Chesapeake, Virginia, began producing non-partisan voter guides which it distributed to conservative Christian churches. Complaints that the voter guides were partisan led to the denial by the IRS of the Christian Coalition, Inc.'s tax-exempt status in 1999. Later that same year, the Coalition prevailed in its five-year defense of lawsuit brought by the Federal Election Commission.\n\nRalph Reed, an Emory University Ph.D. candidate, whom Robertson had met when the younger man was working as a waiter at an inaugural dinner for George H. W. Bush in January 1989, took control of day-to-day operations of the coalition in 1989 as its founding executive director. He remained in the post until August 1997 when he left to enter partisan political consulting, founding his new firm Century Strategies, based near Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nRobertson served as the organization's president from its founding until June 1997, when President Reagan's Cabinet Secretary Donald P. Hodel was named president of the CCA, and former U. S. Representative Randy Tate (R-WA) was named executive director. Upon announcement of Hodel becoming president of the CCA, Robertson expressed a desire to serve the grassroots activists that made up the Coalition: \"...I am here. Not only because I felt God's call on me but that I knew of God's call on you.\"\n\nGrover Norquist, Washington insider, president of Americans for Tax Reform, and an old Reed ally, said of the appointments: \"What you've got is Reagan and Gingrich. Hodel is a Reagan Republican and Tate is a Gingrich Republican.\"\n\nLate in 1997 the CCA was ranked by \"Fortune\" magazine as the 7th most powerful political organization in America.\n\nAfter a disagreement with Robertson, Hodel left in January 1999 and Tate soon followed. Robertson took over the presidency. Later in 2001 he turned it and the chairmanship over to Roberta Combs, the group's Executive Vice President and former State Chairman of South Carolina, when he officially left the Coalition.\n\nIn 2000, the Coalition moved from Chesapeake, Virginia, to a large office on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. Combs is the current president and CEO of the Christian Coalition of America. She is a founding state director and has been the only woman on the board of directors in the history of the Christian Coalition of America. Since moving to the capital, Combs installed members of her family as high-ranking officials in the group, including her daughter Michele Ammons and son-in-law Tracy Ammons. Michele and Tracy Ammons later divorced. Combs fired her former son-in-law Tracy Ammons after her daughter received a judgement against him for alimony and child support. Combs had filed an affidavit on her behalf on Coalition letterhead.\n\nIn November 2002, Combs down-sized the staff and moved the organization's offices from Washington, D.C., to a suburb of Charleston, South Carolina. The Coalition reduced its lobbyists in Washington from a dozen to one. The Christian Coalition was later sued for $1,890 by Reese & Sons Enterprises of Maryland, the moving company it used for transporting its goods to South Carolina, because of failure to pay the wrapping and packing fee. The Coalition lost in court in Richmond, Virginia, and finally paid the movers.\n\nOther reported debts have been $69,729 owed to its longtime law firm, Huff, Poole & Mahoney PC of Virginia Beach, and Global Direct, a fundraising firm in Oklahoma, sued for $87,000 in expenses.\nFrom the time Robertson left the group in 2001 until 2006, the Coalition's influence greatly declined. Revenue declined from a high of $26.5 million in 1996 to $1.3 million in 2004. The organization's 2004 income tax return showed the Christian Coalition to be technically bankrupt, with debts exceeding assets by more than $2 million.\n\nIn 2005, the Coalition finally concluded a settlement agreement with the Internal Revenue Service, ending its long-running battle with that agency regarding its tax exempt status. As a result, the IRS has recognized the Coalition as a 501(c)(4) tax-exempt organization, the first time in the agency's history that it has granted a letter of exemption to a group that stated in its application that it would distribute voter guides directly in churches. The consent decree enforces limitations on the terminology that may be used in the Coalition's voter guides.\n\nIn late 2005, the \"Washington Post\" reported that the Christian Coalition was unable to pay its office postage bill to Pitney Bowes. In addition, it had not paid new lawyers in Virginia Beach; the law firm sued the Coalition.\n\nIn March 2006, the Christian Coalition of Iowa renamed itself the Iowa Christian Alliance. In splitting from the national group, the Iowa Christian Alliance cited \"the current problems facing the Christian Coalition of America\". In August 2006, the Christian Coalition of Alabama split from the national group. It later renamed itself Christian Action Alabama.\n\nIn November 2006, the president-elect of the Christian Coalition of America resigned his post, citing a difference in philosophy over which issues the organization should embrace. Reverend Joel Hunter, currently the senior pastor of the Northland Church in Longwood, Florida, was to assume the presidency in January. But Hunter said the Coalition's leaders resisted his calls to expand their issue base, saying it would not expand the agenda beyond opposing abortion and same-sex marriage. Hunter also said he wanted to focus on rebuilding the Coalition's once powerful grassroots, an appeal he says board members rejected. \"After initial willingness to consider these changes, the board of the CCA decided, 'that is fine, but that is not who we are,'\" Hunter said. Combs continues as the Coalition's president.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "104983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104983", "title": "Civilian casualties", "text": "Civilian casualties\n\nCivilian casualties occurs in a general sense, when civilians are killed or injured by non-civilians, mostly law enforcement officers, military personnel, or criminals such as terrorists and bank robbers. Under the law of war, it is referred to civilians who perished or suffered wounds as a result of wartime acts. In both cases, they can be associated with the outcome of any form of action regardless of whether civilians were targeted directly or not.\n\nIn times of armed conflict, despite numerous advancements in technology, the European Union’s European Security Strategy, adopted by the European Council in Brussels in December 2003, stated that since 1990, almost 4 million people have died in wars, 90% of them civilians. However, United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) reports that civilian fatalities have climbed from 5 per cent at the turn of the century to more than 90 per cent in the wars of the 1990s.\n\nGenerating reliable assessments of casualties of war is a notoriously complex process. Civilian casualties present particular difficulties. One problem is that the attribution of the label ‘civilian’ is contested in some cases. On the surface, the definition of a civilian, at least in the context of international armed conflicts, is relatively simple: a civilian is any person who is not a member of the armed forces and is not a combatant in situation of armed conflict. To make effective use of such statistics as there are about civilian casualties of war, it is necessary to be explicit about the criteria for inclusion. All too often, there is a lack of clarity about which of the following categories of civilian casualties are included in any given set of figures.\n\nThe inclusion of people in each of these categories may be defensible, but needs to be explicit. Each category presents its own methodological problems. In the case of people dying from indirect effects (category 3), much careful work is needed to distinguish between ‘expected’ and ‘excess’ levels. of mortality. In the case of victims of sexual crimes (category 5) there could be an argument for including not only direct crimes by combatants, but also 'indirect’ crimes due to general social collapse. In the case of those uprooted in war (category 6), the implication that refugees and IDPs always count as war victims is too simple. Some may be fleeing one-sided violence from a repressive state apparatus, natural calamity, or general social breakdown. Moreover, in certain episodes, such as the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971, the Kosovo War of 1999, and the Afghanistan War of 2001, military campaigns have enabled large numbers of refugees to return home. Indeed, in the 1971 and 1999 wars, refugee return was a stated reason for launching hostilities. Yet this key observation finds remarkably little reflection in the literature about the casualties of contemporary war. A focus on the numbers of those uprooted in war is especially problematic as those who are trapped in conflict zones may in fact be worse off than those uprooted, but seldom feature in statistics. Figures for war deaths and for war-related migration should be presented separately, not amalgamated.\n\nFollowing the Second World War, a series of treaties governing the laws of war were adopted starting in 1949. These Geneva Conventions would come into force, in no small part, because of a general reaction against the practices of the Second World War. Although the Fourth Geneva Convention attempted to erect some legal defenses for civilians in time of war, the bulk of the Fourth Convention devoted to explicating civilian rights in occupied territories, and no explicit attention is paid to the problems of bombardment and the hazardous effects in the combat-zone.\n\nIn 1977, Protocol I was adopted as an amendment to the Geneva Conventions, prohibiting the deliberate or indiscriminate attack of civilians and civilian objects in the war-zone and the attacking force must take precautions and steps to spare the lives of civilians and civilian objects as possible. Although ratified by 173 countries, the only countries that are currently not signatories to Protocol I are the United States, Israel, Iran, Pakistan, India, and Turkey.\n\nThe Rome Statute defines that \"intentionally directing attacks against the civilian population\" to be illegal, but only came into effect on July 1, 2002 and has not been ratified by every country.\n\nMany modern nations' views on the ethics of civilian casualties align with the Just War theory, which advocates a system of proportionality. An act of war is deemed proportional in Just War theory if the overall destruction expected from the use of force is outweighed by the projected good to be achieved. This view is a war-adapted version of utilitarianism, the moral system which advocates that the morally correct action is the one that does the most good.\n\nHowever, moral philosophers often contest this approach to war. Such theorists advocate absolutism, which holds there are various ethical rules that are, as the name implies, absolute. One such rule is that non-combatants cannot be attacked because they are, by definition, not partaking in combat; to attack non-combatants anyway, regardless of the expected outcome, is to deny them agency. Thus, by the absolutist view, only enemy combatants can be attacked. The philosopher Thomas Nagel advocates this abolutist rule in his essay \"War and Massacre\".\n\nFinally, the approach of pacifism is the belief that war of any kind is morally unjust. Pacifists sometimes extend humanitarian concern not just to enemy civilians but also to enemy combatants, especially conscripts.\n\nThe laws of war have changed over the course of history, and international protocols like the Fourth Geneva Convention explicitly provide legal protections to civilians in territories occupied by a belligerent party during and after an international armed conflict. The 1951 Refugee Convention and the 1967 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees has also given protection to people who have a well founded fear of persecution.\n\nSome researchers have included refugees and internally displaced persons in their definition of \"civilian casualty\".\n\nThe civilian casualty ratio in an armed conflict is the ratio of civilian casualties to combatant casualties or total casualties. The measurement can apply either to casualties inflicted by a particular belligerent or to casualties in the conflict as a whole.\n\nThe ratio of ten civilian casualties for every combatant is a frequently-cited, but disputed figure.\n\nCollateral damage is defined in terms of armed conflict as unavoidable or accidental killing or injury of non-combatants or unavoidable or accidental destruction of non-combatant property caused by attacks on legitimate military targets.\n\n"}
{"id": "4791408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4791408", "title": "Constitutionally limited government", "text": "Constitutionally limited government\n\nA constitutionally limited government is a system of government that is bound to certain principles of action by a state constitution. This system of government is dialectically opposed to pragmatism, on the basis that no state action can be made that conflicts with its constitution, regardless of the action's possible consequences.\n\nAn example of a constitutionally limited government is the United States, which is a constitutionally limited republic.\n\nInherent in any constitutionally limited government, is an accepted code of values, used to define its constitutional view of justice, making it a \"value social system\".\n"}
{"id": "3079085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3079085", "title": "Criticism of capitalism", "text": "Criticism of capitalism\n\nCriticism of capitalism ranges from expressing disagreement with the principles of capitalism in its entirety to expressing disagreement with particular outcomes of capitalism.\n\nCriticism of capitalism comes from various political and philosophical approaches, including anarchist, socialist, religious and nationalist viewpoints. Some believe that capitalism can only be overcome through revolution, and some believe that structural change can come slowly through political reforms. Some critics believe there are merits in capitalism and wish to balance it with some form of social control, typically through government regulation (e.g. the social market movement).\n\nProminent among critiques of capitalism are accusations that capitalism is inherently exploitative, that it is unsustainable, that it creates economic inequality, that it is anti-democratic and leads to an erosion of human rights and that it incentivizes imperialist expansion and war.\n\nEconomist Branko Horvat stated that \"[I]t is now well known that capitalist development leads to the concentration of capital, employment and power. It is somewhat less known that it leads to the almost complete destruction of economic freedom\".\n\nCritics argue that capitalism leads to a significant loss of political, democratic and economic power for the vast majority of the global human population. The reason for this is they believe capitalism creates very large concentrations of money and property in the hands of a relatively small minority of the global human population (the elite or the \"power elite\"), leading, they say, to very large and increasing, wealth and income inequalities between the elite and the majority of the population. \"Corporate capitalism\" and \"inverted totalitarianism\" are terms used by the aforementioned activists and critics of capitalism to describe a capitalist marketplace—and society—characterized by the dominance of hierarchical, bureaucratic, large corporations, which are legally required to pursue profit without concern for social welfare. Corporate capitalism has been criticized for the amount of power and influence corporations and large business interest groups have over government policy, including the policies of regulatory agencies and influencing political campaigns. Many social scientists have criticized corporations for failing to act in the interests of the people; they claim the existence of large corporations seems to circumvent the principles of democracy, which assumes equal power relations between all individuals in a society. As part of the political left, activists against corporate power and influence work towards a decreased income gap and improved economical equity.\n\nThe rise of giant multinational corporations has been a topic of concern among the aforementioned scholars, intellectuals and activists, who see the large corporation as leading to deep, structural erosion of such basic human rights and civil rights as equitable wealth and income distribution, equitable democratic political and socio-economic power representation and many other human rights and needs. They have pointed out that in their view large corporations create false needs in consumers and—they contend—have had a long history of interference in and distortion of the policies of sovereign nation states through high-priced legal lobbying and other almost always legal, powerful forms of influence peddling. In their view, evidence supporting this belief includes invasive advertising (such as billboards, television ads, adware, spam, telemarketing, child-targeted advertising and guerrilla marketing), massive open or secret corporate political campaign contributions in so-called \"democratic\" elections, corporatocracy, the revolving door between government and corporations, regulatory capture, \"too big to fail\" (also known as \"too big to jail\"), massive taxpayer-provided corporate bailouts, socialism/communism for the very rich and brutal, vicious, Darwinian capitalism for everyone else, and—they claim—seemingly endless global news stories about corporate corruption (Martha Stewart and Enron, among many other examples). Anti-corporate-activists express the view that large corporations answer only to large shareholders, giving human rights issues, social justice issues, environmental issues and other issues of high significance to the bottom 99% of the global human population virtually no consideration. American political philosopher Jodi Dean says that contemporary economic and financial calamities have dispelled the notion that capitalism is a viable economic system, adding that \"the fantasy that democracy exerts a force for economic justice has dissolved as the US government funnels trillions of dollars to banks and European central banks rig national governments and cut social programs to keep themselves afloat.\"\n\nDavid Schweickart wrote that in capitalist societies: Ordinary people are deemed competent enough to select their political leaders-but not their bosses. Contemporary capitalism celebrates democracy, yet denies us our democratic rights at precisely the point where they might be utilized most immediately and concretely: at the place where we spend most of the active and alert hours of our adult lives.\n\nThomas Jefferson, one of the founders of the United States, said \"I hope we shall crush [...] in its birth the aristocracy of our moneyed corporations, which dare already to challenge our government to a trial of strength and bid defiance to the laws of our country\". In an April 29, 1938 message to Congress, Franklin D. Roosevelt warned that the growth of private power could lead to fascism: [T]he liberty of a democracy is not safe if the people tolerate the growth of private power to a point where it becomes stronger than their democratic state itself. That, in its essence, is fascism—ownership of government by an individual, by a group, or by any other controlling private power. [...] Statistics of the Bureau of Internal Revenue reveal the following amazing figures for 1935: \"Ownership of corporate assets: Of all corporations reporting from every part of the Nation, one-tenth of 1 percent of them owned 52 percent of the assets of all of them\".\n\nUnited States President Dwight D. Eisenhower criticized the notion of the confluence of corporate power and \"de facto\" fascism and in his 1961 Farewell Address to the Nation brought attention to the \"conjunction of an immense military establishment and a large arms industry\" in the United States and stressed \"the need to maintain balance in and among national programs—balance between the private and the public economy, balance between cost and hoped for advantage\".\n\nCritics of capitalism view the system as inherently exploitative. In an economic sense, exploitation is often related to the expropriation of labor for profit and based on Karl Marx's version of the labor theory of value. The labor theory of value was supported by classical economists like David Ricardo and Adam Smith who believed that \"the value of a commodity depends on the relative quantity of labor which is necessary for its production\".\n\nIn \"Das Kapital\", Marx identified the commodity as the basic unit of capitalist organization. Marx described a \"common denominator\" between commodities, in particular that commodities are the product of labor and are related to each other by an exchange value (i.e. price). By using the labor theory of value, Marxists see a connection between labor and exchange value, in that commodities are exchanged depending on the socially necessary labor time needed to produce them. However, due to the productive forces of industrial organization, laborers are seen as creating more exchange value during the course of the working day than the cost of their survival (food, shelter, clothing and so on). Marxists argue that capitalists are thus able to pay for this cost of survival while expropriating the excess labor (i.e. surplus value).\n\nMarxists further argue that due to economic inequality, the purchase of labor cannot occur under \"free\" conditions. Since capitalists control the means of production (e.g. factories, businesses, machinery and so on) and workers control only their labor, the worker is naturally coerced into allowing their labor to be exploited. Critics argue that exploitation occurs even if the exploited consents, since the definition of exploitation is independent of consent. In essence, workers must allow their labor to be exploited or face starvation. Since some degree of unemployment is typical in modern economies, Marxists argue that wages are naturally driven down in free market systems. Hence, even if a worker contests their wages, capitalists are able to find someone from the reserve army of labor who is more desperate.\n\nUnions are the \"traditional method\" for workers to have more bargaining power in the marketplace. The act (or threat) of striking has historically been an organized action to withhold labor from capitalists, without fear of individual retaliation. Some critics of capitalism, while acknowledging the necessity of trade unionism, believe that trade unions simply reform an already exploitative system, leaving the system of exploitation intact. Lysander Spooner argued that \"almost all fortunes are made out of the capital and labour of other men than those who realize them. Indeed, large fortunes could rarely be made at all by one individual, except by his sponging capital and labour from others\".\n\nLabor historian Immanuel Wallerstein has argued that unfree labor—by slaves, indentured servants, prisoners and other coerced persons—is compatible with capitalist relations.\n\nAcademics such as Howard Gardner have proposed the adoption of upper limits in individual wealth as \"a solution that would make the world a better place\".\n\nCritics of capitalism (e.g. John Bellamy Foster and Robert W. McChesney) argue that the system is responsible for not only economic exploitation, but also imperialist, colonial and counter-revolutionary wars and repression of workers and trade unionists.\n\nNear the start of the 20th century, Vladimir Lenin claimed that state use of military power to defend capitalist interests abroad was an inevitable corollary of monopoly capitalism. He argued that capitalism needs imperialism in order to survive. According to Lenin, the export of financial capital superseded the export of commodities; banking and industrial capital merged to form large financial cartels and trusts in which production and distribution are highly centralized; and monopoly capitalists influenced state policy to carve up the world into spheres of interest. These trends led states to defend their capitalist interests abroad through military power.\n\nThe military–industrial complex, mentioned in Dwight D. Eisenhower's presidential farewell address, appears to play a significant role in the American capitalist system. It may be one of the driving forces of American militarism and intervention abroad.\n\nSome opponents criticize capitalism's inefficiency. They note a shift from pre-industrial reuse and thriftiness before capitalism to a consumer-based economy that pushes \"ready-made\" materials. It is argued that a sanitation industry arose under capitalism that deemed trash valueless—a significant break from the past when much \"waste\" was used and reused almost indefinitely. In the process, critics say, capitalism has created a profit driven system based on selling as many products as possible. Critics relate the \"ready-made\" trend to a growing garbage problem in which 4.5 pounds of trash are generated per person each day (compared to 2.7 pounds in 1960). Anti-capitalist groups with an emphasis on conservation include eco-socialists and social ecologists.\n\nPlanned obsolescence has been criticized as a wasteful practice under capitalism. By designing products to wear out faster than need be, new consumption is generated. This would benefit corporations by increasing sales while at the same time generating excessive waste. A well-known example is the charge that Apple designed its iPod to fail after 18 months. Critics view planned obsolescence as wasteful and an inefficient use of resources. Other authors such as Naomi Klein have criticized brand-based marketing for putting more emphasis on the company's name-brand than on manufacturing products.\n\nSome economists, most notably Marxian economists, argue that the system of perpetual capital accumulation leads to irrational outcomes and a mis-allocation of resources as industries and jobs are created for the sake of making money as opposed to satisfying actual demands and needs.\n\nMarket failure is a term used by economists to describe the condition where the allocation of goods and services by a market is not efficient. Keynesian economist Paul Krugman views this scenario in which individuals' pursuit of self-interest leads to bad results for society as a whole. John Maynard Keynes preferred economic intervention by government to free markets. Some believe that the lack of perfect information and perfect competition in a free market is grounds for government intervention. Others perceive certain unique problems with a free market including: monopolies, monopsonies, insider trading and price gouging.\n\nCritics argue that capitalism is associated with the unfair distribution of wealth and power; a tendency toward market monopoly or oligopoly (and government by oligarchy); imperialism, counter-revolutionary wars and various forms of economic and cultural exploitation; repression of workers and trade unionists and phenomena such as social alienation, economic inequality, unemployment and economic instability. Critics have argued that there is an inherent tendency toward oligopolistic structures when \"laissez-faire\" is combined with capitalist private property. Capitalism is regarded by many socialists to be irrational in that production and the direction of the economy are unplanned, creating many inconsistencies and internal contradictions and thus should be controlled through public policy.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Vladimir Lenin argued that state use of military power to defend capitalist interests abroad was an inevitable corollary of monopoly capitalism.\n\nChe Guevara wrote: The laws of capitalism, which are blind and are invisible to ordinary people, act upon the individual without he or she being aware of it. One sees only the vastness of a seemingly infinite horizon ahead. That is how it is painted by capitalist propagandists who purport to draw a lesson from the example of Rockefeller—whether or not it is true—about the possibilities of individual success. The amount of poverty and suffering required for a Rockefeller to emerge, and the amount of depravity entailed in the accumulation of a fortune of such magnitude, are left out of the picture, and it is not always possible for the popular forces to expose this clearly... It is a contest among wolves. One can win only at the cost of the failure of others.\n\nA modern critic of capitalism is Ravi Batra, who focuses on inequality as a source of immiserization but also of system failure. Batra popularised the concept \"share of wealth held by richest 1%\" as an indicator of inequality and an important determinant of depressions in his best-selling books in the 1980s.\n\nIn the United States, the shares of earnings and wealth of the households in the top 1 percent of the corresponding distributions are 21 percent (in 2006) and 37 percent (in 2009), respectively. Critics, such as Ravi Batra, argue that the capitalist system has inherent biases favoring those who already possess greater resources. The inequality may be propagated through inheritance and economic policy. Rich people are in a position to give their children a better education and inherited wealth and that this can create or increase large differences in wealth between people who do not differ in ability or effort. One study shows that in the United States 43.35% of the people in the \"Forbes\" magazine \"400 richest individuals\" list were already rich enough at birth to qualify. Another study indicated that in the United States wealth, race and schooling are important to the inheritance of economic status, but that IQ is not a major contributor and the genetic transmission of IQ is even less important. Batra has argued that the tax and benefit legislation in the United States since the Reagan presidency has contributed greatly to the inequalities and economic problems and should be repealed.\n\nCritics of capitalism, particularly Marxists, identify market instability as a permanent feature of capitalist economy. Marx believed that the unplanned and explosive growth of capitalism does not occur in a smooth manner, but is interrupted by periods of overproduction in which stagnation or decline occur (i.e. recessions). In the view of Marxists, several contradictions in the capitalist mode of production are present, particularly the internal contradiction between anarchy in the sphere of capital (i.e. free market) and socialised production in the sphere of labor (i.e. industrialism). In \"The Communist Manifesto\", Marx and Engels highlighted what they saw as a uniquely capitalist juxtaposition of overabundance and poverty: \"Society suddenly finds itself put back into a state of momentary barbarism. And why? Because there is too much civilization, too much means of subsistence, too much industry, too much commerce\".\n\nPierre-Joseph Proudhon and Friedrich Engels argue that the free market is not necessarily free, but weighted towards those who already own private property. They view capitalist regulations, including the enforcement of private property on land and exclusive rights to natural resources, as unjustly enclosing upon what should be owned by all, forcing those without private property to sell their labor to capitalists and landlords in a market favorable to the latter, thus forcing workers to accept low wages in order to survive. In his criticism of capitalism, Proudhon believed that the emphasis on private property is the problem. He argued that property is theft, arguing that private property leads to despotism: \"Now, property necessarily engenders despotism—the government of caprice, the reign of libidinous pleasure. That is so clearly the essence of property that, to be convinced of it, one need but remember what it is, and observe what happens around him. Property is the right to use and abuse\". Many left-wing anarchists, such as anarchist communists, believe in replacing capitalist private property with a system where people can lay claim to things based on personal use and claim that \"[private] property is the domination of an individual, or a coalition of individuals, over things; it is not the claim of any person or persons to the use of things\" and \"this is, usufruct, a very different matter. Property means the monopoly of wealth, the right to prevent others using it, whether the owner needs it or not\".\n\nMutualists and some anarchists support markets and private property, but not in their present form. They argue that particular aspects of modern capitalism violate the ability of individuals to trade in the absence of coercion. Mutualists support markets and private property in the product of labor, but only when these markets guarantee that workers will realize for themselves the value of their labor.\n\nIn recent times, most economies have extended private property rights to include such things as patents and copyrights. Critics see this as coercive against those with few prior resources. They argue that such regulations discourage the sharing of ideas and encourage nonproductive rent seeking behavior, both of which enact a deadweight loss on the economy, erecting a prohibitive barrier to entry into the market. Not all pro-capitalists support the concept of copyrights, but those who do argue that compensation to the creator is necessary as an incentive.\n\nOne of the main modern criticisms to the sustainability of capitalism is related to the so-called commodity chains, or production/consumption chains. These terms refer to the network of transfers of materials and commodities that is currently part of the functioning of the global capitalist system. Examples include high tech commodities produced in countries with low average wages by multinational firms and then being sold in distant high income countries; materials and resources being extracted in some countries, turned into finished products in some others and sold as commodities in further ones; and countries exchanging with each other the same kind of commodities for the sake of consumers' choice (e.g. Europe both exporting and importing cars to and from the United States). According to critics, such processes, all of which produce pollution and waste of resources, are an integral part of the functioning of capitalism (i.e. its \"metabolism\").\n\nCritics note that the statistical methods used in calculating ecological footprint have been criticized and some find the whole concept of counting how much land is used to be flawed, arguing that there is nothing intrinsically negative about using more land to improve living standards (rejection of the intrinsic value of nature).\n\nMany environmentalists have long argued that the real dangers are due to the world's current social institutions that claim to promote environmentally irresponsible consumption and production. Under what they call the \"grow or die\" imperative of capitalism, they say there is little reason to expect hazardous consumption and production practices to change in a timely manner. They also claim that markets and states invariably drag their feet on substantive environmental reform and are notoriously slow to adopt viable sustainable technologies. Immanuel Wallerstein, referring to the externalization of costs as the \"dirty secret\" of capitalism, claims that there are built-in limits to ecological reform and that the costs of doing business in the world capitalist economy are ratcheting upward because of deruralization and democratization.\n\nA team of Finnish scientists hired by the UN Secretary-General to aid the 2019 Global Sustainable Development Report assert that capitalism as we know it is moribund, primarily because it focuses on short term profits and fails to look after the long term needs of people and the environment which is being subjected to unsustainable exploitation. Their report goes on to link many seemingly disparate contemporary crises to this system, including environmental factors such as global warming and accelerated species extinctions and also societal factors such as rising economic inequality, unemployment, sluggish economic growth, rising debt levels, and impuissant governments unable to deal with these problems. The scientists say a new economic model, one which focuses on sustainability and efficiency and not profit and growth, will be needed as decades of robust economic growth driven by abundant resources and cheap energy is rapidly coming to a close.\n\nAccording to contemporary critics of capitalism, rapid industrialization in Europe created working conditions viewed as unfair, including 14-hour work days, child labor and shanty towns. Some modern economists argue that average living standards did not improve, or only very slowly improved, before 1840.\n\nEarly socialist thinkers rejected capitalism altogether, attempting to create socialist communities free of the perceived injustices of early capitalism. Among these utopian socialists were Charles Fourier and Robert Owen. In 1848, Karl Marx and Frederich Engels released \"The Communist Manifesto\", which outlined a political and economic critique of capitalism based on the philosophy of historical materialism. Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, a contemporary of Marx, was another notable critic of capitalism and was one of the first to call himself an anarchist.\n\nBy the early 20th century, myriad socialist tendencies (e.g. anarcho-syndicalism, social democracy and Bolshevism) had arisen based on different interpretations of current events. Governments also began placing restrictions on market operations and created interventionist programs, attempting to ameliorate perceived market shortcomings (e.g. Keynesian economics and the New Deal). Starting with the 1917 Russian Revolution, Communist states increased in numbers and a Cold War started with the developed capitalist nations. Following the Revolutions of 1989, many of these Communist states adopted market economies. The notable exceptions to this trend have been North Korea, Cuba and Venezuela, the latter instituting a philosophy referred to as \"socialism of the 21st century\".\n\nThe authors of An Anarchist FAQ state that anarchists have long recognised that capitalism is by its very nature hierarchical. The worker is subjected to the authority of the boss during working hours (sometimes outside work too). They state: \"This hierarchical control of wage labour has the effect of alienating workers from their own work, and so from themselves. Workers no longer govern themselves during work hours and so are no longer free\". According to them, this is why \"[c]apitalism, by treating labour as analogous to all other commodities denies the key distinction between labour and other \"resources\"—that is to say its inseparability from its bearer—labour, unlike other \"property,\" is endowed with will and agency. Thus when one speaks of selling labour there is a necessary subjugation of will (hierarchy)... Creative, self-managed work is a source of pride and joy and part of what it means to be fully human. Wrenching control of work from the hands of the worker profoundly harms his or her mental and physical health. Capitalism itself was created by state violence and the destruction of traditional ways of life and social interaction was part of that task. From the start, bosses spent considerable time and energy combating attempts of working people to join together to resist the hierarchy they were subjected to and reassert human values. Such forms of free association between equals (such as trade unions) were combated, just as attempts to regulate the worse excesses of the system by democratic governments. Indeed, capitalists prefer centralized, elitist and/or authoritarian regimes precisely because they are sure to be outside of popular control (see section B.2.5). They are the only way that contractual relations based on market power could be enforced on an unwilling population\".\n\nFor the influential German individualist anarchist philosopher Max Stirner, private property is a \"spook\" which \"lives by the grace of law\" and \"becomes 'mine' only by effect of the law\". In other words, private property exists purely \"through the protection of the State, through the State's grace\". Recognising its need for state protection, Stirner is also aware that \"[i]t need not make any difference to the 'good citizens' who protects them and their principles, whether an absolute King or a constitutional one, a republic, if only they are protected. And what is their principle, whose protector they always 'love'? Not that of labour\", rather it is \"interest-bearing possession [...] labouring capital, therefore [...] labour certainly, yet little or none at all of one's own, but labour of capital and of the—subject labourers\". French anarchist Pierre-Joseph Proudhon opposed government privilege that protects capitalist, banking and land interests and the accumulation or acquisition of property (and any form of coercion that led to it) which he believed hampers competition and keeps wealth in the hands of the few. The Spanish individualist anarchist Miguel Giménez Igualada sees \"capitalism is an effect of government; the disappearance of government means capitalism falls from its pedestal vertiginously...That which we call capitalism is not something else but a product of the State, within which the only thing that is being pushed forward is profit, good or badly acquired. And so to fight against capitalism is a pointless task, since be it State capitalism or Enterprise capitalism, as long as Government exists, exploiting capital will exist. The fight, but of consciousness, is against the State\".\n\nWithin anarchism there emerged a critique of wage slavery which refers to a situation perceived as quasi-voluntary slavery, where a person's livelihood depends on wages, especially when the dependence is total and immediate. It is a negatively connoted term used to draw an analogy between slavery and wage labor by focusing on similarities between owning and renting a person. The term \"wage slavery\" has been used to criticize economic exploitation and social stratification, with the former seen primarily as unequal bargaining power between labor and capital (particularly when workers are paid comparatively low wages, e.g. in sweatshops) and the latter as a lack of workers' self-management, fulfilling job choices and leisure in an economy. Libertarian socialists believe if freedom is valued, then society must work towards a system in which individuals have the power to decide economic issues along with political issues. Libertarian socialists seek to replace unjustified authority with direct democracy, voluntary federation and popular autonomy in all aspects of life, including physical communities and economic enterprises. With the advent of the Industrial Revolution, thinkers such as Proudhon and Marx elaborated the comparison between wage labor and slavery in the context of a critique of societal property not intended for active personal use, Luddites emphasized the dehumanization brought about by machines while later Emma Goldman famously denounced wage slavery by saying: \"The only difference is that you are hired slaves instead of block slaves\". American anarchist Emma Goldman believed that the economic system of capitalism was incompatible with human liberty. \"The only demand that property recognizes\", she wrote in \"Anarchism and Other Essays\", \"is its own gluttonous appetite for greater wealth, because wealth means power; the power to subdue, to crush, to exploit, the power to enslave, to outrage, to degrade\". She also argued that capitalism dehumanized workers, \"turning the producer into a mere particle of a machine, with less will and decision than his master of steel and iron\".\n\nNoam Chomsky contends that there is little moral difference between chattel slavery and renting one's self to an owner or \"wage slavery\". He feels that it is an attack on personal integrity that undermines individual freedom. He holds that workers should own and control their workplace. Many libertarian socialists argue that large-scale voluntary associations should manage industrial manufacture while workers retain rights to the individual products of their labor. As such, they see a distinction between the concepts of \"private property\" and \"personal possession\". Whereas \"private property\" grants an individual exclusive control over a thing whether it is in use or not and regardless of its productive capacity, \"possession\" grants no rights to things that are not in use.\n\nIn addition to anarchist Benjamin Tucker's \"big four\" monopolies (land, money, tariffs and patents) that have emerged under capitalism, neo-mutualist economist Kevin Carson argues that the state has also transferred wealth to the wealthy by subsidizing organizational centralization in the form of transportation and communication subsidies. He believes that Tucker overlooked this issue due to Tucker's focus on individual market transactions, whereas Carson also focuses on organizational issues. The theoretical sections of \"Studies in Mutualist Political Economy\" are presented as an attempt to integrate marginalist critiques into the labor theory of value. Carson has also been highly critical of intellectual property. The primary focus of his most recent work has been decentralized manufacturing and the informal and household economies. Carson holds that \"[c]apitalism, arising as a new class society directly from the old class society of the Middle Ages, was founded on an act of robbery as massive as the earlier feudal conquest of the land. It has been sustained to the present by continual state intervention to protect its system of privilege without which its survival is unimaginable\". Carson coined the pejorative term \"vulgar libertarianism\", a phrase that describes the use of a free market rhetoric in defense of corporate capitalism and economic inequality. According to Carson, the term is derived from the phrase \"vulgar political economy\", which Karl Marx described as an economic order that \"deliberately becomes increasingly apologetic and makes strenuous attempts to talk out of existence the ideas which contain the contradictions [existing in economic life]\". Capitalism has been criticized for establishing power in the hands of a minority capitalist class that exists through the exploitation of a working class majority; for prioritizing profit over social good, natural resources and the environment; and for being an engine of inequality and economic instabilities.\n\nSocialists argue that the accumulation of capital generates waste through externalities that require costly corrective regulatory measures. They also point out that this process generates wasteful industries and practices that exist only to generate sufficient demand for products to be sold at a profit (such as high-pressure advertisement), thereby creating rather than satisfying economic demand.\n\nSocialists argue that capitalism consists of irrational activity, such as the purchasing of commodities only to sell at a later time when their price appreciates, rather than for consumption, therefore a crucial criticism often made by socialists is that making money, or accumulation of capital, does not correspond to the satisfaction of demand (the production of use-values). The fundamental criterion for economic activity in capitalism is the accumulation of capital for reinvestment in production. This spurs the development of new, non-productive industries that do not produce use-value and only exist to keep the accumulation process afloat. An example of a non-productive industry is the financial industry, which contributes to the formation of economic bubbles.\n\nSocialists view private property relations as limiting the potential of productive forces in the economy. According to socialists, private property becomes obsolete when it concentrates into centralized, socialized institutions based on private appropriation of revenue (but based on cooperative work and internal planning in allocation of inputs) until the role of the capitalist becomes redundant. With no need for capital accumulation and a class of owners, private property of the means of production is perceived as being an outdated form of economic organization that should be replaced by a free association of individuals based on public or common ownership of these socialized assets. Private ownership imposes constraints on planning, leading to uncoordinated economic decisions that result in business fluctuations, unemployment and a tremendous waste of material resources during crisis of overproduction.\n\nExcessive disparities in income distribution lead to social instability and require costly corrective measures in the form of redistributive taxation. This incurs heavy administrative costs while weakening the incentive to work, inviting dishonesty and increasing the likelihood of tax evasion (the corrective measures) while reducing the overall efficiency of the market economy. These corrective policies limit the market's incentive system by providing things such as minimum wages, unemployment insurance, taxing profits and reducing the reserve army of labor, resulting in reduced incentives for capitalists to invest in more production. In essence, social welfare policies cripple capitalism's incentive system and are thus unsustainable in the long-run. Marxists argue that the establishment of a socialist mode of production is the only way to overcome these deficiencies. Socialists and specifically Marxian socialists, argue that the inherent conflict of interests between the working class and capital prevent optimal use of available human resources and leads to contradictory interest groups (labor and business) striving to influence the state to intervene in the economy at the expense of overall economic efficiency.\n\nEarly socialists (utopian socialists and Ricardian socialists) criticized capitalism for concentrating power and wealth within a small segment of society who do not utilize available technology and resources to their maximum potential in the interests of the public.\n\nKarl Marx saw capitalism as a historical stage, once progressive but which would eventually stagnate due to internal contradictions and would eventually be followed by socialism. Marx claimed that capitalism was nothing more than a necessary stepping stone for the progression of man, which would then face a political revolution before embracing the classless society. Marxists define capital as \"a social, economic relation\" between people (rather than between people and things). In this sense, they seek to abolish capital. They believe that private ownership of the means of production enriches capitalists (owners of capital) at the expense of workers (\"the rich get richer and the poor get poorer\"). In brief, they argue that the owners of the means of production do not work and therefore exploit the workerforce. In Marx's view, the capitalists would eventually accumulate more and more capital impoverishing the working class, creating the social conditions for a revolution that would overthrow the institutions of capitalism. Private ownership over the means of production and distribution is seen as a dependency of non-owning classes on the ruling class and ultimately a source of restriction of human freedom.\n\nMarxists have offered various related lines of argument claiming that capitalism is a contradiction-laden system characterized by recurring crises coming from the tendency of the rate of profit to fall and having a tendency towards increasing severity. Capitalism is seen as just one stage in the evolution of the economic system. Immanuel Wallerstein, approaching matters from a world-systems perspective, cites the intransigence of rising real wages, rising costs of material inputs and steadily rising tax rates, along with the rise of popular antisystemic movements as the most important global secular trends creating unprecedented limiting pressures on the accumulation of capital. According to Wallerstein, \"the capitalist world-economy has now entered its terminal crisis, a crisis that may last up to fifty years. The real question before us is what will happen during this crisis, this transition from the present world-system to some other kind of historical system or systems\".\n\nIn mainland China, differences in terminology sometimes confuse and complicate discussions of Chinese economic reform. Under Marxist ideology, capitalism refers to a stage of history in which there is a class system in which the proletariat is exploited by the bourgeoisie. Officially, according to the Chinese governments stateideology, China is currently in the primary stage of socialism. However, because of Deng Xiaoping and subsequent leaders' Chinese economic reforms, instituting pragmatism within policy, China has undertaken policies that are commonly considered capitalistic, including employing wage labor, increasing unemployment to motivate those who are still working, transforming state owned enterprises into joint stock companies and encouraging the growth of the joint venture and private capitalist sectors. A contrary Marxist view would describe China as just another variant of capitalism (state capitalism), much like the former Soviet Union, which was also claiming to be operating on principals of socialism. This is echoed by what Mao Zedong termed \"capitalist roaders\", who he argued existed within the ruling party structures and would try to restore the bourgeoisie and thus their class interests to power reflected in new policies while only keeping the outer appearance of socialism for legitimacy purposes. Deng Xiaoping was identified as one of these \"capitalist roaders\" during the Cultural Revolution, when he was placed under house arrest.\n\nThe Catholic Church forbids usury. According to Rerum Novarum and Quadragesimo Anno, Catholic social teaching does not support \"political capitalism\", primarily because it is considered part of liberalism and secondly by its nature, which goes against social justice. In 2013, Pope Francis said that more restrictions on the free market were required because the \"dictatorship\" of the global financial system and the \"cult of money\" were making people miserable.\n\nIslam forbids lending money at interest, the mode of operation of capitalist finance, although Islamic banks have developed alternative methods of making profits in transactions that are traditionally arranged using interest.\n\n"}
{"id": "5349432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5349432", "title": "Criticisms of anarchism", "text": "Criticisms of anarchism\n\nCritics of anarchism include allegations of utopianism, tacit authoritarianism, and vandalism towards feats of civilization.\n\nAnarchism is evaluated as unfeasible or utopian by its critics, often in general and formal debate. European history professor Carl Landauer, in his book \"European Socialism\" argued that social anarchism is unrealistic and that government is a \"lesser evil\" than a society without \"repressive force.\" He also argued that \"ill intentions will cease if repressive force disappears\" is an \"absurdity\".\n\nAnarchists often counter this assertion by arguing that it is merely a misconception. Mainstream anarchism does not expect such an outcome and instead offers other, decentralized mechanisms for crime prevention and adjudication. \"An Anarchist FAQ\" states the following: \"Anarchy is not a utopia [...] anarchists make no claims about human perfection [...] disputes would be solved by reasonable methods, for example, the use of juries, mutual third parties, or community and workplace assemblies [...] some sort of \"court\" system would still be necessary to deal with the remaining crimes and to adjudicate disputes between citizens [...]\".\n\nThe anarchist tendency known as platformism has been criticized by Situationists, insurrectionaries, synthesis anarchists and others of preserving tacitly statist, authoritarian or bureaucratic tendencies. The anarcho-capitalist economist Bryan Caplan argues that the treatment of fascists and fascist sympathizers by Spanish anarchists in the Spanish Civil War was a form of illegitimate coercion, making the anarchists \"ultimately just a third faction of totalitarians,\" alongside the communists and fascists. He also criticizes the willingness of the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT) to join the Republican government during the civil war, and references Stanley G. Payne's book on the Franco regime which claims that the CNT entered negotiations with the government of Spain six years after the war. Many anarcho-syndicalists, anarcho-communists, and other types of anarchists have criticized the CNT-FAI for entering the Spanish government during and since the events of the Civil War.\n\nIn his essay \"On authority\", Friedrich Engels claimed that radical decentralization promoted by anarchists would destroy modern industrial civilization, citing an example of railways:\nIn the end, it is argued that authority in any form is a natural occurrence which should not be abolished.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11287305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11287305", "title": "David Ray Hate Crimes Prevention Act", "text": "David Ray Hate Crimes Prevention Act\n\nThe David Ray Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009 (H.R. 254) or David's Law, was a bill first introduced in the United States House of Representatives on January 7, 2009, by Rep. Sheila Jackson-Lee of Texas. It was designed to enhance Federal enforcement of laws regarding hate crimes, and to specifically make sexual orientation, like race and gender, a protected class. The bill stated that existing Federal law was inadequate to address violence motivated by race, color, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender, or disability of the victim. It called for the revision of Section 246* of title 18 of the United States Code as well as the addition of a subsection outlining the punishment for anyone found guilty of a hate crime. Statistics show that minority groups are the main victims of hate crimes. Crimes against gay men and lesbians are said, by researches in Los Angeles County, to be the most severe form of hate crimes.\n\nState legislators began to introduce hate crime laws starting in the 1970s to address racism, prejudice, and discrimination that escalated into more violent crimes. The first state law against hate crimes, titled California Section 190.2 was passed in 1978 in California. This statute's sole purpose was the enhance the penalty of crimes that were motivated by prejudice due to race, sexual orientation, ethnicity, disability, and etc. In California, there was an increase in crimes committed against Asians based on their race, religion, and ethnicity based on a survey conducted by a spokesperson of the National LGBTQ Task Force(NGLTF). Research studies conducted by George Comstock in 1991, proved that there was a rise in hate crimes as of 1985 at the same time that policies against hate crimes were being created. In 1990, President George Bush signed the Hate Crime Statistics Act which allowed analysis of hate crimes that occur across the country. However, hate crimes are often not reported which makes it virtually impossible to gather statistics and compare these statistics with other statistics. Hate crimes and bias crimes started to receive the attention of policymakers, community activists, and social scientists after there was a rise of hate crimes across the country committed in 1985. Hate crime convictions do not occur frequently because when crimes investigations occur, motives are tough to figure out in the eyes of the law.\n\nIt is not clear how effective hate crime legislation has been because although all states record hate crime data, state legislators have different definitions of hate crimes so it is hard to compare the statistics.\n\n"}
{"id": "4636485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4636485", "title": "Department of National Defense (Philippines)", "text": "Department of National Defense (Philippines)\n\nThe Department of National Defense (DND; Filipino: \"Kagawaran ng Tanggulang Pambansa\", \"KTP\") is the executive department of the Philippine government responsible for guarding against external and internal threats to peace and security in the country. The Department of National Defense exercises executive supervision over the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), the Office of Civil Defense (OCD), the Philippine Veterans Affairs Office (PVAO), the National Defense College of the Philippines (NDCP), and the Government Arsenal (GA). It is also responsible for disaster preparation and management in the country.\n\nIt is headed by the Secretary of National Defense, who is a member of the President's cabinet. The current Secretary of National Defense of the Philippines is Delfin Lorenzana as of 30 June 2016.\n\nThe Department of National Defense or DND was formally organised on 1 November 1939, pursuant to Executive Order № 230 of President Manuel L. Quezon to implement Commonwealth Act № 1 or the National Defense Act of 1935 passed by the National Assembly on 31 December 1935, and Commonwealth Act № 340 creating the department.\n\nThroughout its existence, the Department's functions are to enforce the law and to curb criminality and to guarantee the external and internal security of the country. As such, the DND deals also with criminal elements because the Philippine Constabulary or PC, then a major branch of the Armed Forces that has responsibility in enforcing the law and maintaining peace and order was under its supervision, aside from other AFP major services (Army, Navy, Air Force) which are busy dealing with fighting insurgents like the Communists and Muslim secessionists.\n\nDuring Martial Law, the DND became the most powerful department in the executive department under the leadership of then Defense Minister Juan Ponce Enrile, who was\nthen named martial law overseer by then President Ferdinand Marcos, the military\ncommander-in-chief. But, during also Martial Law, Marcos, who assumed dictatorial\npowers issued a decree creating the National Intelligence and Security Authority\nor NISA, to be the country's national intelligence agency with broad powers over\nintelligence and national security. In effect, NISA also served as the secret\npolice force of Marcos, and now became the most powerful agency, and the DND's status dwindled. The NISA was headed by General Fabian Ver, Marcos' most trusted man, who was also at that time, the commander of the then Presidential\nSecurity Command and later, was named to be the concurrent chief of staff of\nthe Armed Forces, thus becoming the most powerful military officer.\n\nAt the end of Marcos regime on 1986, the DND continues to exercise the powers\nto deal with criminality and internal plus external defense of the country until\n1991 when then President Corazon Aquino signed a law passing the functions to\nenforce all criminal laws from DND to The Department of Interior and Local Government or DILG. Both departments, however, shared the responsibility of guaranteeing internal secure\n\nThe Department is headed by the Secretary of National Defense (Philippines), with the following five undersecretaries and assistant secretaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34696808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34696808", "title": "Disequilibrium macroeconomics", "text": "Disequilibrium macroeconomics\n\nDisequilibrium macroeconomics is a tradition of research centered on the role of disequilibrium in economics. This approach is also known as non-Walrasian theory, equilibrium with rationing, the non-market clearing approach, and non-tâtonnement theory. Early work in the area was done by Don Patinkin, Robert W. Clower, and Axel Leijonhufvud. Their work was formalized into general disequilibrium models, which were very influential in the 1970s. American economists had mostly abandoned these models by the late 1970s, but French economists continued work in the tradition and developed fixprice models.\n\nIn the neoclassical synthesis, equilibrium models were the rule. In these models, rigid wages modeled unemployment at equilibria. These models were challenged by Don Patinkin and later disequilibrium theorists. Patinkin argued that unemployment resulted from disequilibrium. Patinkin, Robert W. Clower, and Axel Leijonhufvud focused on the role of disequilibrium. Clower and Leijonhufvud argued that disequilibrium formed a fundamental part of Keynes's theory and deserved greater attention.\n\nRobert Barro and Herschel Grossman formulated general disequilibrium models, in which individual markets were locked into prices before there was a general equilibrium. These markets produced \"false prices\" resulting in disequilibrium. Soon after the work of Barro and Grossman, disequilibrium models fell out of favor in the United States and Barro abandoned Keynesianism and adopted new classical, market-clearing hypotheses. However, leading American economists continued work with disequilibrium models, for example Franklin M. Fisher at MIT, Richard E. Quandt at Princeton University, and John Roberts at Stanford University.\n\nWhile disequilibrium economics had only a supporting role in the US, it had major role in European economics, and indeed a leading role in French-speaking Europe. In France, Jean-Pascal Bénassy (1975) and Yves Younès (1975) studied macroeconomic models with fixed prices. Disequilibrium economics received greater research as mass unemployment returned to Western Europe in the 1970s. Disequilibrium economics also influenced European policy discussions, particularly in France and Belgium. European economists such as Edmond Malinvaud and Jacques Drèze expanded on the disequilibrium tradition and worked to explain price rigidity instead of simply assuming it.\n\nMalinvaud used disequilibrium analysis to develop a theory of unemployment. He argued that disequilibrium in the labor and goods markets could lead to rationing of goods and labor, leading to unemployment. Malinvaud adopted a fixprice framework and argued that pricing would be rigid in modern, industrial prices compared to the relatively flexible pricing systems of raw goods that dominate agricultural economies. In Malinvaud's framework, prices are fixed and only quantities adjust. Malinvaud considers an equilibrium state in classical and Keynesian unemployment as most likely. He pays less attention to the case of repressed inflation and considers underconsumption/unemployment a theoretical curiosity. Work in the neoclassical tradition is confined as a special case of Malinvaud's typology, the Walrasian equilibrium. In Malinvaud's theory, reaching the Walrasian equilibrium case is almost impossible to achieve given the nature of industrial pricing. Malinvaud's work provided different policy prescriptions depending on the state of the economy. Given Keynesian unemployment, fiscal policy could shift both the labor and goods curves upwards leading to higher wages and prices. With this shift, the Walrasian equilibrium would be closer to the actual economic equilibrium. On the other hand, fiscal policy with an economy in the classical unemployment would only make matters worse. A policy leading to higher prices and lower wages would be recommended instead.\n\n\"Disequilibrium macroeconometrics\" was developed by Drèze's, Henri Sneessens (1981) and Jean-Paul Lambert (1988). A joint paper by Drèze and Sneessens inspired Drèze and Richard Layard to lead the European Unemployment Program, which estimated a common disequilibrium model in ten countries. The results of that successful effort were to inspire policy recommendations in Europe for several years.\n\nIn Belgium, Jacques Drèze defined equilibria with price rigidities and quantity constraints and studied their properties, extending the Arrow–Debreu model of general equilibrium theory in mathematical economics. Introduced in his 1975 paper, a \"Drèze equilibrium\" occurs when supply (demand) is constrained only when prices are downward (upward) rigid, whereas a preselected commodity (e.g. money) is never rationed. Existence is proved for arbitrary bounds on prices. A joint paper with Pierre Dehez established the existence of Drèze equilibria with no rationing of the demand side. Stanford's John Roberts studied supply-constrained equilibria at competitive prices; similar results were obtained by Jean-Jacques Herings at Tilburg (1987, 1996). Roberts and Hering proved the existence of a continuum of Drèze equilibria. Then Drèze (113) proved existence of equilibria with arbitrarily severe rationing of supply. Next, in a joint paper with Herings and others (132), the generic existence of a continuum of Pareto-ranked supply-constrained equilibria was established for a standard economy with some fixed prices. The multiplicity of equilibria thus formalises a trade-off between inflation and unemployment, comparable to a Phillips curve. Drèze viewed his approach to macroeconomics as examining the macroeconomic consequences of Arrow–Debreu general equilibrium theory with rationing, an approach complementing the often-announced program of providing microfoundations for macroeconomics.\n\nDisequilibrium credit rationing can occur for one of two reasons. In the presence of usury laws, if the equilibrium interest rate on loans is above the legally allowable rate, the market cannot clear and at the maximum allowable rate the quantity of credit demanded will exceed the quantity of credit supplied.\n\nA more subtle source of credit rationing is that higher interest rates can increase the risk of default by the borrower, making the potential lender reluctant to lend at otherwise attractively high interest rates.\n\nLabour markets are prone to particular sources of price rigidity because the item being transacted is people, and laws or social constraints designed to protect those people may hinder market adjustments. Such constraints include restrictions on who or how many people can be laid off and when (which can affect both the number of layoffs and the number of people hired by firms that are concerned by the restrictions), restrictions on the lowering of wages when a firm experiences a decline in the demand for its product, and long-term labor contracts that pre-specify wages.\n\nDisequilibrium in one market can affect demand or supply in other markets. Specifically, if an economic agent is constrained in one market, his supply or demand in another market may be changed from its unconstrained form, termed the \"notional demand\", into a modified form known as \"effective demand\". If this occurs systematically for a large number of market participants, market outcomes in the latter market for prices and quantities transacted (themselves either equilibrium or disequilibrium outcomes) will be affected.\n\nExamples include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55991275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55991275", "title": "Dusky Peril", "text": "Dusky Peril\n\nDusky Peril is a term used by \"Puget Sound American\" a daily newspaper, published from Bellingham, Washington, USA, to describe the immigration of what it described as Hindus to the area, in its 16 September, 1906 issue by way of a feature article. It has been considered as an expression of xenophobia similar to the term Yellow Peril, that found practice in white and non-white countries across the globe in those times. The term is analysed to have both an ethnic and a religious dimension. The article is in response to the immigration of 17 individuals to the town. The article's headline is \"Have we a Dusky Peril: Hindu hordes invading the state\" with the byline going thus, \"Bellingham workmen are becoming excited over the arrival of East Indians in numbers across the Canadian border and fear that the dusky Asiatics with their turbans will prove a worse menance to the working classes than the \"Yellow Peril\" that has so long threatened the Pacific Coast.\" \n\nKaajal Ahuja writes that the graffiti \"Get Out\" written on the walls of a Hindu temple in Bothelo about an hour's drive south of Bellingham, brought back what she calls \"painful memories (of the incidents of the early decades of the 20th century such as the eponymous feature article)\" for the community. Shefali Chandan writing in Jano conjectures that the emotions behind the circumstances that led to the ethnic cleansing of Bellingham in 1907, in which white mobs went door to door to locate Indian immigrants and forced their expulsion, resulting in the entire community numbering about 200 leaving the town for good, found expression in the feature article written less than a year ago.\n"}
{"id": "38133483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38133483", "title": "Elkanah Tisdale", "text": "Elkanah Tisdale\n\nElkanah Tisdale (1768-1835) was an American engraver, miniature painter and cartoonist. He was known for the famous cartoon \"The Gerry-Mander\", published in the \"Boston Gazette\" on 26 March 1812, which led to the coining of the term gerrymandering.\n\nElkanah Tisdale was born in 1768 in Lebanon, Connecticut.\nHis father ran a wagon shop in Lebanon before moving to New York City in 1794, and Elkanah probably worked for him as a carriage painter. \nTisdale was based in New York from 1794 to 1798, where he described himself as \"Engraver and miniature painter\".\nAfter 1798 he called himself a miniature painter. Some sources say that he met Benjamin Trott in 1798, and the two friends left New York and stayed in Albany for a few months to avoid an epidemic of yellow fever. From that time he alternated between Connecticut and New York City.\n\nIn 1798 he founded the Hartford Engraving Company in Hartford, Connecticut.\nHe joined the Graphic Co. in Hartford, an association of engravers, though he designed vignettes but did not engrave them. \nHe probably met and taught the future miniaturist Anson Dickinson in the early 1800s.\nFrom 1813 to 1818 he worked in Boston. In 1818 he exhibited two miniatures at the New York American Academy of the Fine Arts. \nHe moved to Hartford in 1818.\nIn 1920 he was designing and engraving plates for Samuel F. Goodrich in Hartford.\nHe returned to Lebanon around 1823.\nHis engraving of the Convention at Philadelphia appeared in an 1823 edition of A History of the United States. \nHe died in 1835 in Norwich, Connecticut.\n\nSome of Tisdale's earliest works were his full-page illustrations in John Trumbull's \"McFingal\", which was published in New York in 1795.\nAccording to David McNeely Stauffer in his \"American Engravers on Copper and Steel\", \"Tisdale worked in both line and stipple; but his plates possess little merit ... Tisdale was a better designer than engraver, and he claimed to be a painter in his early life, though his best work was in the line of miniature portrait painting.\"\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "19586632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19586632", "title": "Federal electoral districts of Mexico", "text": "Federal electoral districts of Mexico\n\nThe federal electoral districts (Spanish: \"distritos electorales federales\") of Mexico are the 300 constituencies or electoral districts into which Mexico is divided for the purpose of federal elections. Each district returns one federal deputy (\"diputado\"), who sits in the Chamber of Deputies (\"Cámara de Diputados\"), the lower house of the Federal Congress. An additional 200 deputies are elected by proportional representation from the five electoral regions.\n\nElectoral districts are identified by Roman numerals and by federal entity (state or the Federal District). The number of electoral districts was set at 300 in 1979, when the number of seats in the Chamber of Deputies was increased from 196. The demarcation of the districts depends on the results of the previous electoral census, and adjustments to the 1979 districts were made in 1996 and 2005.\n\nIrrespective of population, no state may be represented by fewer than two electoral districts. This is the case with Baja California Sur (population: 512,000), Campeche (population: 755,000) and Colima (population: 568,000), which, as a result, return more senators than deputies to Congress. The states with the most electoral districts are the state of México (population: 14 million), with 40, and Veracruz (population: 7.1 million), with 21. The Federal District, with a population of 8.8 million, has 27.\n\nOn 11 February 2005, the Federal Electoral Institute (now the National Electoral Institute) established the districts to be used in the 2006 general election and the 2009 mid-term election, in accordance with the following criteria: \n\nUnder this scheme, the current electoral districts are the following:\n\nThe numbers indicate the number of districts in each federal entity for federal elections between 2006 and 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "158172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158172", "title": "Federation of American Scientists", "text": "Federation of American Scientists\n\nThe Federation of American Scientists (FAS) is a 501(c)(3) organization with the stated intent of using science and scientific analysis to attempt to make the world more secure. FAS was founded in 1945 by scientists who worked on the Manhattan Project to develop the first atomic bombs.\n\nWith 100 sponsors, FAS claims that it promotes a safer and more secure world by developing and advancing solutions to important science and technology security policy problems by educating the public and policy makers, and promoting transparency through research and analysis to maximize impact on policy. FAS projects are organized in three main programs: nuclear security, government secrecy, and biosecurity.\n\nFAS was founded as the Federation of Atomic Scientists on November 30, 1945, by a group of scientists and engineers within the Associations of Manhattan Project Scientists, Oak Ridge Scientists, and Los Alamos Scientists. Its early mission was to support the McMahon Act of 1946, educate the public, press, politicians, and policy-makers, and promote international transparency and nuclear disarmament. On January 6, 1946, FAS changed its name to the Federation of American Scientists, but its purpose remained the same—to agitate for the international control of atomic energy and its devotion to peaceful uses, public promotion of science and the freedom and integrity of scientists and scientific research. For this purpose, permanent headquarters were set up in Washington, D.C., and contacts were established with the several branches of government, the United Nations, professional and private organizations, and influential persons.\n\nBy 1948, the Federation had grown to twenty local associations, with 2,500 members, and had been instrumental in the passage of the McMahon Act and the National Science Foundation, and had influenced the American position in the United Nations with regard to international control of atomic energy and disarmament.\n\nIn addition to influencing government policy, it undertook a program of public education on the nature and control of atomic energy through lectures, films, exhibits, and the distribution of literature, coordinating its own activities with that of member organizations through the issue of memorandum, policy statements, information sheets, and newsletters.\n\nThe mission of FAS is to promote a safer and more secure world by developing and advancing solutions to important science and technology security policy problems by educating the public and policy makers, and promoting transparency through research and analysis to maximize impact on policy.\n\nContinuing the FAS tradition of international control of atomic energy and devotion to its peaceful uses, the Nuclear Security Program pursues projects that create a more secure world. SSP includes program work that focuses on reducing the risks of further nuclear proliferation and nuclear terrorism.\n\nThe Nuclear Information Project provides the general public and policy-makers with information and analysis on the status, number, and operation of nuclear weapons, the policies that guide their potential use and nuclear arms control. The project reports on developments in the nuclear fuel cycle that are relevant to nuclear weapons proliferation. The project puts technical information into a nonproliferation context and looks at case studies by conducting independent calculations and analyses.\n\nThe Government Secrecy Project works to promote public access to government information and to illuminate the apparatus of government secrecy, including national security classification and declassification policies. The project also publishes previously undisclosed or hard-to-find government documents of public policy interest, as well as resources on intelligence policy.\n\nThe project publication is Secrecy News, which reports on new developments in government secrecy and provides public access to documentary resources on secrecy, intelligence, and national security policy.\n\nThe Government Secrecy Project is directed by Steven Aftergood, who is also editor and author of Secrecy News.\n\nThe Arms Sales Monitoring Project (ASMP) worked to increase transparency, accountability and restraint in the legal arms trade; eradicate the illicit arms trade; and served as a repository of data on U.S. arms transfers and arms export controls. Project work focused on the arms trade, U.S. arms export policies, and the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons through the publication of reports and articles, media outreach, and public speaking.\n\nThe Arms Sales Monitoring Project was discontinued in 2014.\n\nThe Biosecurity Program concentrates on researching and advocating policies that balance science and security without compromising national security or scientific progress. This includes preventing the misuse of research and promoting the public understanding of the real threats from biological and chemical weapons.\n\nThe Virtual Biosecurity Center provides the public with a resource to find the latest updates on biosecurity policy, bioterrorism information, and biodefense research.\n\nThe Military Analysis Network offered information on U.S. and Foreign Weapon Systems, Munitions, and Weapons in Space. The Network provided resources and databases in several categories including:\n\nThis is a legacy project and information is no longer updated by FAS staff.\n\nThe Learning Technologies Program (LTP) focused on ways to use innovative technologies to improve how people teach and learn. The LTP created prototype games and learning tools and assembled collaborative projects consisting of NGOs, design professionals, and community leaders to undertake innovative education initiatives at both the national and local level.\n\nThe Project worked to help create learning tools to bring about major gains in learning and training. The major project of the Program is Immune Attack, a fully 3-D game in which high school students discover the inner workings of the body's circulatory and immune systems, as they pilot a tiny drone through the bloodstream to fight microscopic invaders.\n\nImmune Attack was jointly developed by the Federation of American Scientists, the University of Southern California, Brown University, and Escape Hatch Entertainment. Immune Attack is a supplemental teaching tool, designed to be used in addition to middle school and high school biology textbooks. It introduces molecular biology and cellular biology in detail that is usually reserved for college students. However, it uses the familiar and motivational video game format to introduce the strange and new world of cells and molecules.\n\nThe Learning Technologies Program was discontinued in 2013.\n\nThe Earth Systems Program (ESP) examined the increased stresses on the environment, including issues relating to energy, food, agriculture, water, and other natural resources, and to analyze how they interact with respect to international security. ESP was created out of the idea that technology should allow people worldwide to improve their living standards and amenities through secure and environmentally friendly ways. The program worked improve dialogue and trust between environmental scientists, policy makers, and the public, as well as to develop science partnerships to solve critical environment and energy problems.\n\nThe FAS Building Technologies Project was initiated in 2001 to focus the efforts of scientists and engineers who specialize in building materials on a range of issues such as structural engineering, indoor air quality, energy efficiency, and architectural design to create homes that are safe, affordable, and attractive to builders and owners in the United States and abroad.\n\nThe Building Technologies Program worked to advance innovation in building design and construction that can improve quality, affordability, energy efficiency and hazard protection while lowering construction and operating costs. Technical advances, including new composite materials and prefabricated components, help to meet these goals in ways that are beneficial for builders and owners. The Building Technologies Project combined the talents of renowned architects and engineers along with the nation’s leading energy experts to embark upon housing issues in the United States and abroad.\n\nProgram areas included: \n\nThe Building Technologies Project was discontinued in 2012.\n\nThe Federation of American Scientists is led by a Board of Directors made up of renowned members of the science, business and academic communities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42632230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42632230", "title": "Girl School Committee of 1866", "text": "Girl School Committee of 1866\n\nThe Flickskolekommittén 1866 (Girl School Committee of 1866), was a Swedish governmental committee issued by the Swedish Parliament, the Riksdag, in 1866 to examine organization of female education in Sweden and produce suggestions of reforms and recommendations on how the policy regarding education for women should be organized. This was the first governmental committee of its kind, and was to have a large impact upon the educational system in Sweden as well as the gender roles and policy regarding women's rights in general of its country.\n\nSince the introduction of a public compulsory school system for children of both sexes in 1842, education for females had been a constant question of debate for politicians as well as in intellectual circles: while the new school system allowed every male the opportunity to go from compulsory education to secondary education and finally university, the public school system were closed for females after 5th grade. Except for private teachers, only two educational institutions were open to females after puberty: the free pauper schools, which taught poor girls professions, and the girls' schools for students from the middle and upper classes. These existing girls schools were normally more or less equivalents to finishing schools, with the goal to make the student a \"lady\", and they were forcefully criticized for their shallow and \"useless\" education. In 1842, only five girls' schools offered a more serious academic education: Wallinska skolan in Stockholm, Askersunds flickskola in Askersund, och Fruntimmersföreningens flickskola, Kjellbergska flickskolan and Societetsskolan.\n\nSince the introduction of a public compulsory school in 1842, progressive politicians had debated for the organisation of governmental secondary education of females: this would ensure a far better quality than when the secondary education were only provided by private schools, who were subjected to the views of their students conservative parents. The conservative view was that females should be educated in the home for the home; that education and knowledge could destroy the feminine qualities that differed women from men and cause women distaste for the role of wife and mother; and that the idea of equality could not interfere with the order stated by God. In parallel, the Population growth had created a large number of women who could not marry and were forced to support themselves and with few means to do so.\n\nThe reformists, who had initially motivated themselves with the idea of Difference feminism, therefore started with the more efficient argument that although the first natural choice for a woman was always that of a wife and mother, not all women would be married, and those who could find no one to marry should be given the opportunity to support themselves without having to resort to the charity of relatives, criminality or prostitution. This argument was successful and caused a row of reforms in women's rights: equal inheritance rights in 1845; equal rights within trade and commerce in 1846, 1861 and 1864; the profession of teacher in the public school system in 1853; legal majority for unmarried women in 1858-63; access to the professions of Feldsher, organist and dentist in 1861 and the professions of telegraph- and postal offices in 1863. These reforms were in themselves arguments for the reformists, who stated that as females now had been given more rights from the state, it was also the task of the state to give them education to handle these rights. In 1856, the novel \"Hertha\" by Fredrika Bremer caused a debate of women's educational rights which led to the foundation of the female seminary Högre lärarinneseminariet in 1861. This pressed the matter of governmental secondary education for girls, and after a heated debate in 1865-66, the committee was issued to solve the policy of female education.\n\nAccording to the committee, the girl schools task was a double one: to give women an education suitable for her to be a wife and mother and the complement of a man, which was a woman's first task; but also to give women an education which would make it possible for females to support themselves professionally as independent women within the educated professions which were newly opened to women, in the case they should not succeed to be marry.\n\nThe organization of girl schools recommended was in fact quite progressive, and was for the larger part equivalent to the organisation of the secondary education of males, the Gymnasium (school): this would place the female students on the same level as the male ones who were qualified to enter university. Gymnastics, an innovative subject, were also a recommendation for health reasons. The committee recommended that girl schools should offer a six years term education, followed by voluntary two years; and that those students having completed eight years should be given some sort of exam equivalent to those given male students. The exceptions were mathematics and natural science, which were given a larger and more abstract part for males than those recommended for females: another difference were that while the German language were at the time the most important foreign language for male students, French retained that position for females. The committee also recommended that women be allowed to attend university: this would once and for all answer the questions about the scientific ability of females. The professions recommended for an educated woman were that of a medical doctor, apothecary, positions within the telegraph, postal-, custom and tax offices as well as the lower levels of the teaching professions: some of these professions had recently been opened to women.\n\nIn 1870, women were allowed to study medicine and the profession of doctor were opened to them; in 1873, women were allowed to attend university; and though no secondary education schools for girls were provided by the government, those private girl schools who met with the qualifications received governmental support from 1874.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30783841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30783841", "title": "Global Electoral Organization Conference", "text": "Global Electoral Organization Conference\n\nThe Global Electoral Organization Conference (GEO Conference) is an invitation-only conference which aims to \"bring together electoral practitioners and experts to exchange knowledge and share experiences, to provide a forum for networking, to present opportunities for provoking debate and promoting initiatives.\" \n\n\nIn 1999, the first GEO conference was held in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. The second GEO Conference was not held until 2003 in Mexico. The third GEO Conference was held in Hungary. GEO2007, the fourth conference, was held in Washington, D.C. Four year later, GEO2011 was held in Gaborone, Botswana.\n\n"}
{"id": "6386724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6386724", "title": "Health freedom movement", "text": "Health freedom movement\n\nThe health freedom movement is a libertarian coalition that opposes regulation of health practices and advocates for increased access to \"non-traditional\" health care. \n\nThe John Birch Society has been a prominent advocate for health freedom since at least the 1970s, and the specific term \"health freedom movement\" has been used in the United States since the 1990s.\n\nVitamins and supplements have been exempted in the US from regulations requiring evidence of safety and efficacy, largely due to the activism of health freedom advocates. The belief that supplements and vitamins can demonstrably improve health or longevity and that there are no negative consequences from their use, is not widely accepted in the medical community. Very rarely, large doses of some vitamins lead to vitamin poisoning (hypervitaminosis).\n\nHealth freedom is a libertarian position but not aligned on the left/right political axis. Libertarian Ron Paul introduced the Health Freedom Protection Act in the U.S. Congress in 2005.\n\nProminent celebrity supporters of the movement include the musician Sir Paul McCartney, who says that people \"have a right to buy legitimate health food supplements\" and that \"this right is now clearly under threat,\" and the pop star/actress Billie Piper, who joined a march in London in 2003 to protest planned EU legislation to ban high dosage vitamin supplements.\n\nThe Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 (DSHEA) defines supplements as foods and thus permits marketing unless the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) proves that it poses significant or unreasonable risk of harm rather than requiring the manufacturer to prove the supplement’s safety or efficacy. The Food and Drug Administration can take action only if the producers make medical claims about their products or if consumers of the products become seriously ill.\n\nAn October 2002 nationwide Harris poll showed that, at that time, consumers still had widespread confusion about the differences between supplements and pharmaceuticals. Here, 59% of respondents believed that supplements had to be approved by a government agency before they could be marketed; 68% believed that supplements had to list potential side effects on their labels; and 55% believed that supplement labels could not make claims of safety without scientific evidence. All of these beliefs are incorrect as a result of provisions of the DSHEA.\n\nA law in the U.S. State of Virginia allows teenagers 14 or older and their parents the right to refuse medical treatments for ailments such as cancer, and to seek alternative treatments so long as they have considered all other medical options, presented as \"significant for health freedom in Virginia.\"\n\nIn Europe, health freedom movement writers and campaigners believe that European Union (EU) laws such as the Food Supplements Directive and the Human Medicinal Products (Pharmaceuticals) Directive will reduce their access to food supplements and herbal \"medicines\". European health food producers, retailers and consumers have been vocal in protesting against this legislation, with the health freedom movement inviting supporters to \"Stop Brussels from killing natural medicine\". Euro-MPs were accosted by activists handing out a propaganda video accusing five European commissioners of corruptly colluding with big pharmaceutical firms in an attempt to destroy the alternative network of homeopathic and \"natural medicines\", though it emerged that most homeopathic practice in the UK has been illegal for some years and proposed European regulatory changes do not materially affect this.\n\nIn 2004, the Alliance for Natural Health (ANH) and two British trade associations introduced a legal challenge to the Food Supplements Directive referred to the European Court of Justice by the High Court in London. European judges found the restrictions to be legal but stated that there must be clear procedures to allow substances to be added to the permitted list based on scientific evidence. They also said that any refusal to add a product to the list must be open to challenge in the courts. Some media observers believe that, as a result of this legislation, a black market will emerge, and that controls over ingredients and quality will vanish.\n\nHealth freedom-orientated writers and campaigners tend to see restrictive legislation on supplements as being designed to protect the interests of the pharmaceutical industry. If herbal medicines and supplements are removed from sale, they argue, patients will have no alternative but to use conventional pharmaceutical medicines.\n\nPharmacist and skeptical writer Scott Gavura notes that the reverse is more often true, and that \"governments around the world have consistently given manufacturers the upper hand, prioritizing a company’s desire to sell a product over a consumer’s right to a marketplace with safe, effective products\". In particular, the US Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act permitted existing supplements to be marketed without any evidence that they are effective or safe, and for new supplement ingredients required only that a new ingredient \"should be safe\". This has resulted in a number of serious incidents including adulteration with synthetic drugs.\n\nThe health-freedom movement vehemently opposes the Guidelines for Vitamin and Mineral Food Supplements, adopted by the Codex Alimentarius Commission as a voluntary standard at its meeting in Rome in July 2005, which includes requirements for the packaging and labelling of vitamin and mineral supplements. The text specifies that \"supplements should contain vitamins/provitamins and minerals whose nutritional value for human beings has been proven by scientific data and whose status as vitamins and minerals is recognised by FAO and WHO.\" In addition, it states that the \"sources of vitamins and minerals may be either natural or synthetic\" and that \"their selection should be based on considerations such as safety and bioavailability.\"\n\nThe United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and World Health Organization (WHO) have stated that the guidelines are a consumer protection measure \"to stop consumers overdosing on vitamin and mineral food supplements.\" The Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC) has said that the guidelines call \"for labelling that contains information on maximum consumption levels of vitamin and mineral food supplements.\" The WHO has also said that the Guidelines \"ensure that consumers receive beneficial health effects from vitamins and minerals.\"\n\nThe Weston A. Price Foundation (WAPF), co-founded in 1999 by Sally Fallon (Morell) and nutritionist Mary G. Enig (PhD), is a U.S. 501(c)(3) non-profit organization active in the United States raw milk debate.\n\nThe National Health Federation (NHF) is an international non-profit organization founded in January 1955, which describes its mission as protecting individuals' rights to use dietary supplements and alternative therapies without government restriction. The NHF also opposes interventions such as water fluoridation and childhood vaccines. The Federation has official observer status at meetings of the Codex Alimentarius Commission, the highest international body on food standards. Based in California, the Federation's board members include medical doctors, scientists, therapists and consumer advocates of natural health; and it is the only health-freedom organization with Codex credentials permitting it to participate actively at Codex Alimentarius meetings.\n\nThe Alliance for Natural Health (ANH) is an advocacy group founded in 2002 by Robert Verkerk and based in the United Kingdom. The ANH was initially founded to raise funds to finance a legal challenge of the EU Food Supplement Directive. The ANH lobbies against regulation of dietary supplements and in favor of alternative medical approaches such as homeopathy, and also advocates a healthy diet, exercise, and other lifestyle approaches to health. Verkerk rejects scientific research showing that megadoses of vitamins lack any health benefit.\n\nThe health freedom movement includes proponents such as Gary Null, Dr Joseph Mercola and convicted fraudster Kevin Trudeau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53155792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53155792", "title": "Henri Georges Boulay de la Meurthe", "text": "Henri Georges Boulay de la Meurthe\n\nHenri Georges Boulay de la Meurthe was the only person to ever have the title of Vice-President of France.\n\nHe was born on 15 July 1797 in Nancy, France and died in Paris on 24 November 1858 at the age of 61.\n\nA staunch Republican and Bonapartist, he was elected to the Provisional Assembly in 1848, and was elected Vice President later that year and served from 20 January 1849 to 14 January 1852, after which the post, and the Second Republic itself, were abolished. He served in the Imperial Senate from 26 January 1852 until his death on 24 November 1858. \n"}
{"id": "19770670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19770670", "title": "History of the Libertarian Party (United States)", "text": "History of the Libertarian Party (United States)\n\nThe Libertarian Party of the United States was formed in Colorado Springs in the home of Luke Zell by a group of individuals led by David Nolan on December 11, 1971, after several months of debate among members of the Committee to Form a Libertarian Party, founded July 17. The formation was prompted in part by price controls and the end of the Gold Standard implemented by President Richard Nixon. The Libertarian Party viewed the dominant Republican and Democratic parties as having diverged from what they viewed as the libertarian principles of the American Founding Fathers. This group included John Hospers, Edward Crane, Manuel Klausner, Murray Rothbard, Roy Childs, Theodora (Tonie) Nathan, and Jim Dean.\n\nA press conference announcing the new party was held on January 31, 1972 at the party's headquarters in Westminster, Colorado. The first national convention, attracting 89 delegates from 23 states, was held that June in Denver, Colorado. According to Ron Crickenberger, former Political Director of the LP, a search of LP records showed that the LP had elected Miguel Gilson-De Lemos in a partisan local board race in New York even before the adoption of its first platform. Several others were also elected or appointed that year. Party leaders initially doubted they would even see six people elected or appointed by 2001, so this led to early optimism among some. However, in subsequent years the number of people in office seemed to be about 1% of its donor base: approximately 30 officeholders with 3,000 donors in 1981; 100 in office and 10,000 donors in 1991; and 600 and 60,000 in 2001.\n\nBy the 1972 presidential election, the party had grown to over 80 members and had attained ballot access in two states. Their presidential ticket, John Hospers and Theodora (Tonie) Nathan, earned between 3,000 and 4,000 votes, but received the first and only electoral college vote for a Libertarian presidential ticket, from Roger MacBride of Virginia, who was pledged to Richard Nixon. His was also the first vote ever cast for a woman in the United States Electoral College. MacBride became the party's presidential nominee in the 1976 Presidential Election. The 1976 election established the Libertarian Party as the #1 alternative political party in the United States, and it remains the most successful alternative political party since the end of the Second World War.\n\nIn 1978, Dick Randolph became the first Libertarian to win State-level office with his election to the Alaska House of Representatives. Two years later, he won another term and Ken Fanning was also elected as a Libertarian to that chamber.\n\nIn the 1980 presidential contest, the Libertarian Party gained ballot access in all 50 States, Washington, D.C., and Guam, the first time a third party accomplished this since the Socialist Party in 1916 (when there were only 48 States and the District of Columbia did not get to vote for president). The ticket of Ed Clark and David H. Koch spent several million dollars on this political campaign and earned more than one percent of the popular vote with almost one million votes.\n\nOn December 29, 1981, the first widely reported successful election in the continental United States of a Libertarian Party candidate in a partisan race occurred as Richard P. Siano, a Boeing 707 pilot for Trans World Airlines, running against both a Republican and a Democrat, was elected to the office of Kingwood Township Committeeman in western Hunterdon County, New Jersey. His election resulted from the special election held on December 29, 1981 to break a tie vote in the general election between him and the Democratic candidate. He received 63% of the votes cast in the special election. He served a three-year term of office. Another Libertarian had, in 1977, been elected to a city council position in New Jersey.\n\nIn 1983 (the LP at the time held its nominating convention the year before the election, due to the stringent requirements many States set for allowing an alternative party on their ballots), the party was divided by internal disputes; former party leaders Ed Crane and David H. Koch left, taking a number of their supporters with them. In 1984, the party's presidential nominee, David Bergland, gained access to the ballot in 36 states and earned one-quarter of one percent of the popular vote. In 1987, Doug Anderson became the first Libertarian elected to office in a major city, elected to the Denver Election Commission (later, in 2005, Anderson was elected to the Lakewood, Colorado city council).\n\nIn 1988, former Republican Congressman Ron Paul won the Libertarian nomination for president and was on the ballot in 46 states. Paul later successfully ran for United States House of Representatives from Texas, once again as a Republican, and held that office until 2013. He ran in the Republican primaries in 2008 and sponsored HR 1207 in the House of Representatives, a bill to audit the Federal Reserve. His running-mate was Andre Marrou, a former member of the Alaska legislature; the ticket was thus one of the few \"third-party\" tickets in American history to have former office-holders in both slots.\n\nIn 1992, Andre Marrou, a Libertarian elected to the Alaska state legislature and Ron Paul's running mate in 1988, led the ticket, with attorney Nancy Lord as his Vice Presidential (VP) running mate. For the first time since the Clark campaign in 1980, the Libertarian Party's presidential ticket made the ballot in all 50 states, DC, and Guam usually as independent candidates without party labelling. In 1994, radio personality Howard Stern embarked on a political campaign for Governor of New York, formally announcing his candidacy under the Libertarian Party ticket. Although he legally qualified for the office and campaigned for a time after his nomination, many viewed the run for office as nothing more than a publicity stunt. He subsequently withdrew his candidacy because he did not want to comply with the financial disclosure requirements for candidates.\n\nInvestment adviser Harry Browne headed the 1996 and 2000 presidential tickets. The VP candidate in 1996 was South Carolina entrepreneur Jo Jorgensen; in 2000, Art Olivier of California was Browne's running mate. In 1996 the Party's presidential candidate again made the ballot in all 50 states, often as an independent without Libertarian labelling Washington, D.C. and Guam. The party's presidential ticket again made the ballot in 49 states, DC and Guam in 2000, mostly without party labelling. Although the LP has had ballot access with party labelling in some states for an election or for a time, the LP has never had ballot access with party labelling in all fifty states.\n\nIn all of these cases, the party's presidential nominee drew in between one third and one half of one percent of the popular vote. In 2000, the Arizona Libertarian Party, which had been disaffiliated from the national organization in late 1999, but which controlled the Libertarian ballot line in that state, nominated science fiction author L. Neil Smith and newspaperman Vin Suprynowicz, rather than Browne and Olivier, as its presidential slate. Smith and Suprynowicz polled 5,775 votes (0.38%) in Arizona.\n\nIn the 2004 election cycle, the Libertarian Party's presidential nomination race was the closest to date. Three candidatesgun-rights activist and software engineer Michael Badnarik, talk radio host Gary Nolan, and Hollywood producer Aaron Russocame within two percent of each other on the first two ballots at the 2004 national convention in Atlanta. Badnarik was chosen as the party's presidential nominee on the third ballot after Nolan was eliminated, a comeback many saw as surprising, as Badnarik had not been viewed as a front-runner for the nominationmany delegates were won over during the convention itself, due to Badnarik's perceived strong performance in a formal candidate debate. The Badnarik campaign secured ballot status in 48 states (plus DC and Guam) and earned 397,265 votes. Despite less name recognition and a much smaller campaign checkbook, Badnarik polled nearly as well as independent candidate Ralph Nader. The Libertarian party also garnered more votes than the Green Party that year. His running mate was Richard Campagna who secured the vice presidential nod at the party's Atlanta convention with a landslide victory.\n\nIn the November 2006 mid-term election, the median vote percentage for Libertarians who ran for US House (excluding races with only one major party nominee) was 2.04%; while the median percentage for Greens who ran for that office (again excluding races with only one major party nominee) was 1.41%. Over 13,400,000 votes were cast for Libertarian Party candidates in 2006. In the 2007 general elections, Libertarian Party candidates won 14 elective offices, including an election for mayor of Avis, Pennsylvania.\n\nSeveral candidates sought to become the party's 2008 presidential nominee. Ron Paul, who had been the party's 1988 nominee and was seeking the 2008 Presidential nomination of the Republican Party, was mentioned as a possible nominee as well, but he officially denied any intent to run under a third-party banner. On December 12, 2007, the Party adopted a resolution requesting Paul to run on the Libertarian ticket if he did not win the Republican Party nomination.\nOn March 25, 2008, Mike Gravel changed from the Democratic Party to the Libertarian Party. On May 12, 2008, ten days before the 2008 Libertarian National Convention, Bob Barr, a former employee for then CIA Director George W. Bush and later a Republican U.S. Congressman, announced that he would seek the nomination.\n\nAt the time of the 2008 Libertarian National Convention there were eight candidates for consideration at the convention: Bob Barr, Mike Gravel, Mike Jingozian, Steve Kubby, George Phillies, Wayne Allyn Root, Mary Ruwart, and Christine Smith. On May 25, after six ballots, the Libertarian Party chose Barr as their official nominee for president, and Root as his running mate.\n\nProtests caused by the Great Recession and the Affordable Care Act resulted in gains for both the Libertarian and Republican parties in the 2010 midterm elections. Calling themselves the Tea Party movement (based on the original Boston Tea Party), protesters desired a return to the government's constitutional limits, cuts in government spending and taxes, a Balanced Budget Amendment, and other economic policy reforms supported by the Libertarian Party. Though the Republicans successfully absorbed many voters from these protests as well, they would later lose popularity as the Libertarians continued to benefit into the 2012 elections and held on to much of the support they had lost in the mid-2000s.\n\nAfter initially running for the Republican nomination, former Governor of New Mexico Gary Johnson announced his intention to seek that of the Libertarians. Johnson is known for his opposition to United States involvement in the Afghanistan, Iraq and Libyan wars and as a fiscal conservative who supports \"slashing government spending\". As governor, he cut taxes fourteen times and slashed the 10% annual growth in the New Mexican budget using his gubernatorial veto. He won the nomination over Virginian Bill Still and Texan R. Lee Wrights. He came in third in the general election, receiving 1,275,821 popular votes (0.99%), the most votes of any Libertarian Party presidential candidate.\n\nAt the Libertarian Party National Convention held in Orlando, Florida on May 26-30, 2016, former Governor of New Mexico Gary Johnson became the Libertarian Party candidate for President. His running mate is former Governor of Massachusetts Bill Weld. They were on the ballot in all 50 states including D.C.\n"}
{"id": "4513000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4513000", "title": "Human rights in Ethiopia", "text": "Human rights in Ethiopia\n\nAccording to the U.S. Department of State's human rights report for 2004 and similar sources, the Ethiopian government's human rights \"remained poor; although there were improvements, serious problems remained\". The report listed numerous cases where police and security forces are said to have harassed, illegally detained, tortured, and/or killed individuals, who were members of opposition groups or accused of being insurgents. Thousands of suspects remained in detention without charge, and lengthy pretrial detention continued to be a problem. Prison conditions were poor. The government often ignores citizens' privacy rights and laws regarding search warrants. Freedom House agrees; the site gave Ethiopia a six out of seven, which means that it is not free. Although fewer journalists have been arrested, detained, or punished in 2004 than in previous years, the government nevertheless continues to restrict freedom of the press. The government limits freedom of assembly, particularly for members of opposition groups, and security forces have used excessive force to break up demonstrations. Violence and discrimination against women continue to be problems. Female genital mutilation is widespread, although efforts to curb the practice have had some effect. The economic and sexual exploitation of children continues, as does human trafficking. Forced labor, particularly among children, is a persistent problem. Low-level government interference with labor unions continues. Although the government generally respected the free exercise of religion, local authorities at times interfere with religious practice. In order to improve Ethiopia's image, they hired US agencies to improve Ethiopia's image for $2.5 million. According to report of amnesty international 2016/2017 prolonged protests over political, economic, social and cultural grievances were met with excessive and lethal force by police. The report added that the crackdown on the political opposition saw mass arbitrary arrests, torture and other ill-treatment, unfair trials and violations of the rights to freedom of expression and association. On October 9th 2016, the government announced a state of emergency, which led to further human rights violations. In September 2018, more than 20 have died in ethnic based attacks. Protestors outside the capital have been calling for the prime minister to issue a state of emergency to prevent further killings. \nEthiopia’s Anti-Terrorism Proclamation was introduced in 2009. The broad provisions of the Anti-Terrorism Proclamation allow the authorities to criminalize the exercise of freedom of expression. Amnesty International believes that at least 108 journalists and opposition members were arrested in 2011 primarily because of their legitimate and peaceful criticism of the government. The sheer numbers involved in this wave of arrests represents the most far-reaching crackdown on freedom of expression seen in many years in Ethiopia.\n\nFrom March 2011 to December 2011 at least 108 opposition party members and six journalists were arrested in Ethiopia for alleged involvement with various proscribed terrorist groups. The detainees had been charged with crimes under the Anti-Terrorism Proclamation and the Criminal Code. Many arrests in 2011 came in the days immediately after individuals publicly criticized the government, were involved in public calls for reform, applied for permission to hold demonstrations, or attempted to conduct investigative journalism in a region of Ethiopia to which the government severely restricts access.\n\nAmnesty International believes the individuals will not receive a fair trial and will be convicted for exercising their right to freedom of expression. Many of the detainees complained that they experienced torture and were forced to sign confessions or incriminating evidence. Almost all were denied access to lawyers and family at start of detention.\n\nThe trials have become deeply politicized owing to the interest of senior government officials including the Prime Minister who declared in the national parliament that all the defendants are guilty. The Prime Minister has publicly threatened to carry out further arrests. In the first\nweek of December 135 people were reported to be arrested in Oromia. Amnesty International calls on the United Nations, European Union, African Union, and governments to: Conduct systematic monitoring of the ongoing terrorism trials and the trials of members of the Oromo people political opposition arrested during 2011 and make findings public.\n\nTwo journalists and four opposition politicians of the Unity for Democracy and Justice (UDJ) party, and the Ethiopian National Democratic party, were arrested on 14 September and on 9 September 2011. They were accused of involvement with the Ginbot 7 group, a banned political party.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International citizens were pressed to leave opposition parties in May 2010 elections. Voters in Addis Ababa were reportedly threatened with the withdrawal of state assistance if they did not vote for the EPRDF. There was political violence: One candidate and several activists were killed. Registration as candidates was reportedly prevented by armed forces. Opposition parties said that their members were harassed, beaten and detained by the EPRDF in the build-up to the elections. Hundreds of people were allegedly arrested arbitrarily in the Oromia region, often on the grounds of supporting the Oromo Liberation Front (OLF), an armed group. Detention without trial, torture and killings of Oromos were reported.\n\nThe Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) consolidated political control with 99.6 percent victory in the May 2010 parliamentary elections. According to Human Rights Watch the polls were preceded by months of intimidation of opposition party supporters. According to European election observers the election fell\nshort of international standards. The government had a five-year strategy to systematically close down space for political dissent and independent criticism.\n\nThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights Article 19 of the freedom of expression states: \"Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.\"\n\nAccording to Reporters Without Borders Ethiopia was 139 out of 178 in its latest worldwide index in January 2012.\n\nGovernment censorship, harassment and arrest of bloggers and journalists severely restricts freedom of the press in Ethiopia:\n\nAll of the above individuals were held at the Kaliti Prison.\n\nThe Charities and Societies Proclamation No. 621/2009 of Ethiopia (Civil Society Law or CSO law) was enacted on January 6, 2009. It claims to ensure \"the realization of citizens’ rights to association enshrined in the constitution… as well as …to aid and facilitate the role of civil society in the overall development of the Ethiopian people\", yet many feel this law has been used for the repression of Ethiopian citizens and has been an obstacle to development.\n\nAccording to a paper by the Center for International Human Rights at Northwestern University School of Law, \"The CSO law is the product of the Ethiopian government’s deep suspicion of civil society\" and has been frequently used to silence any organization that advocates for human rights in Ethiopia. This law is more draconian than a similar Russian law and is most similar to a draft of a Zimbabwean NGO bill that was never signed into law. Research indicates that Ethiopia’s CSO law is among the most restrictive in the world.\n\nThis law prohibits \"foreign\" NGO’s from engaging in a very wide range of activities including human rights, women’s rights, children’s rights, disability rights, citizenship rights, conflict resolution or democratic governance. The definition of \"foreign\" NGO was broadened to include local NGOs that receive more than ten percent of their funding from foreign sources. Given that most local NGO’s cannot sustain themselves without some foreign funding, this definition is broad enough to include almost all NGO’s in Ethiopia. However, the government of Ethiopia itself receives 50 to 60 percent of its national budget from foreign governments, which according to its own definition would clearly make it a foreign entity as well.\n\nOver the years Ethiopian organizations that have found themselves to be targets of harassment using the CSO Law include the Ethiopian Human Rights Council (EHRCO), the Ethiopian Women Lawyers’ Association (EWLA) which provided pro bono service to Ethiopian women who could not afford a lawyer. Despite the fact that Article 31 of the Ethiopian Constitution provides that \"every person has the right to freedom of association for any cause or purpose\", the prohibition of NGO’s by the CSO Law has had the effect of severely restricting citizens’ right of association, as members of NGO’s can not associate freely. \n\nIn 2012, Ethiopia passed a law that criminalizes providing Internet voice communication (VoIP) and requiring inspection of any imported voice communications equipment. Additionally, it prohibits \"bypasses the telecom infrastructure established by the telecom service provider\", which restricts Internet access to only the ETC.\n\nAccording to Freedom House's Freedom on the Net 2013 report, Ethiopia ranked 56th out of 60 countries on Internet freedom and 47th out of 53 in 2012.\n\nIn October, 2016 many Ethiopians protested against the Government after they prohibit use of social media, and banning several television channels. As a result, hundreds of people killed and hundreds more imprisoned.\n\nAccording to surveys in 2003 by the National Committee on Traditional Practices in Ethiopia, marriage by abduction accounts for 69% of the nation's marriages, with around 80% in the largest region, Oromiya, and as high as 92 percent in the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's Region.\n\nAccording to the 2005 Ethiopian Demographic Health Survey, more than 74% of women between the ages of 15 and 49 have undergone some form of genital mutilation and cutting with more than 97% in the Somali region.\n\nAmong certain ethnic groups in Southern Ethiopia, babies and young children deemed \"cursed\" as Mingi are usually killed by drowning in rivers, pushing them off cliffs, or leaving them in the bush to starve or be eaten by wild animals. The Karo officially banned Mingi in July 2012.\n\nThe Ethiopian government relocated forcibly ca 70,000 indigenous people from the Gambela Region between 2010 and January 2012 to new villages that lack adequate food, farmland, healthcare, and educational facilities. State security forces threatened, assaulted, and arbitrarily arrested villagers who resisted the transfers. From 2008 through January 2011, Ethiopia leased out at least 3.6 million hectares of land, an area the size of the Netherlands. An additional 2.1 million hectares of land is available through the federal government’s land bank for agricultural investment. In Gambella, 42 percent of the land is marketed for investors.\n\nGambela Region has a population of 307,000, mainly indigenous Anuak and Nuer. Its richly fertile soil has attracted foreign and domestic investors who have leased large tracts of land at favorable prices.\n\nIn 2005, the Ethiopian Police Massacre took place. In this, it was claimed that the Ethiopian police massacred almost 200 opposition protesters, who were protesting in response to the May 2005 General Elections. During this, live gunfire from government forces was directed at protesters and bystanders.\n\nAccording to a report released by Human Rights Watch (HRW) in June 2008, the Ethiopian army has committed widespread executions, torture and rape in Ogaden, as part of a counterinsurgency campaign. The Ethiopian Ministry of Foreign Affairs responded with a big press release stating that they performed an investigation during August and September of that year, which \"found no trace of serious human rights violation let alone war crimes or crimes against humanity\" during their response to the Abole oil field raid, but claimed the investigation found \"a mass of evidence of further systematic abuses committed by the ONLF.\" However, the U.S. State Department's annual report on human rights notes that Lisan Yohannes, a \"former ruling party insider\", led the investigation, an appointment which \"opens questions about the independence of the investigation.\"\n\nOn 6 January 2009, the Ethiopian parliament passed the \"Charities and Societies Proclamation (NGO law)\", which \"criminalizes most human rights work in the country\" according to HRW, who added that \"the law is a direct rebuke to governments that assist Ethiopia and that had expressed concerns about the law's restrictions on freedom of association and expression.\"\n\nFollowing the State of Emergency declared in 2016, there were reports of thousands of deaths of citizens. After protests in Oromo, Amhara, and the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's region, The Ethiopian Human Rights Council reported that there were 669 deaths on aggregate. According to other NGOs and Oromo region officials, there were hundreds of deaths due to militia groups in the eastern side of Ethiopia. \n\nThe Detention Centers in Ethiopia have come under scrutiny for the conditions present. The prisons are overcrowded, for example a prison in Asella has a capacity of 400 people, but there are 3000 people there. The prisoners are beaten and killed, like Ayele Beyene in Kilinto who was beaten by guards and then his wounds were ignored which eventually led to his death. Once people are placed in the prison system their families have little knowledge of their whereabouts. Detainees can not have visitors some places and there is no database or organization to find the location of prisoners. \n\nIn a 2017 HRCO report, the conditions of the Finote Selam Prison in Amhara, the Awash Arba Prison, and Kilinto Prison, were revealed. In the Finote Selam Prison the reports indicated the detainees were beaten and tortured, and the Amahara and Oromo ethnicities were given worse treatment than other groups. Detainees were also subjected to spend time immersed in latrine pits of human feces. In the Awash Arba Prison, they were overcrowded, unfed, beaten, and forced to do manual labor. In addition, the detainees spent time outside walking barefoot and sitting in the sun for consecutive days. In Kilinto, the prisoners were forced to give confessions at the threat of physical punishment, while being mistreated. \n\nIn 2018, under the new leadership of Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, the Ethiopian Government closed Jail Ogaden in the Somali Region of Ethiopia. Jail Ogaden was operated under the former leader of the Somali Region, Abdi Mohamoud Omar, with many of the imprisoned there without charges against them. A Human Rights Watch report indicates that the prisoners were malnourished, beaten, and kept in small confines that promoted rampant disease spread. The former head of the prison Shamaahiye Sheikh Farah was arrested in September of 2018 for his role in the prison. Shamaahiye's most infamous incident of torture was having a month of hunger, where none of the prisoners were allowed to eat. \n\nThe following chart shows Ethiopia's ratings since 1972 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A rating of 1 is \"free\"; 7, \"not free\".\nEthiopia's stances on international human rights treaties are as follows:\nOn April 10th 2018, The United States Congress passed Resolution 128, a bill aimed at encouraging human rights, rule of law, and democracy. A congregation of Ethiopian-Americans expressed concern with consistent human right violations of the Ethiopian government. The interest group of Ethiopian-Americans along with lobbyists got 114 representatives and 33 states to co-sponsor the bill. The bill created provisions for independent examinations into the state of human rights in Ethiopia by the United Nations. The bill is non-binding."}
{"id": "44139988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44139988", "title": "Independentist Students", "text": "Independentist Students\n\nIndependentist Students (EI, \"Estudantes Independentistas\" in Galician language) was a Galician independentist and socialist student union, formed by university students. FER was founded in December 1995. In 1996 EI gained several representatives in the University of Santiago de Compostela Council and in the Faculty Councils. In 1996, the student union grew significantly, although in 1997 and early 1998, the organization stopped growing. Despite their early success in the student elections, EI always focused in the \"struggle in the street\"; demonstrations and strikes were the main means of struggle. Between 1998 and 2000, the organization grew again, gaining presence in all the universities of Galiza and getting seats in the faculty and university councils. Between 1998 and 2000 EI also made a lot of common acts, demonstrations and strikes with the Comités Abertos de Faculdade and the Movemento Estudantil Universitario. In 2001, the group focused more in unity with other independentist and leftist collectives, like the Revolutionary Students Federation or the Galician Antifascist Students Assembly.\n\nIn 2001 EI merged with other galician independentist and anticapitalist student unions to form AGIR (student organization). A sector of EI didn't want to merge and split from the organization.\n"}
{"id": "380802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380802", "title": "Jim Inhofe", "text": "Jim Inhofe\n\nJames Mountain Inhofe (; born November 17, 1934) is an American politician serving as the senior United States Senator from Oklahoma, a seat he was first elected to in 1994. A member of the Republican Party, he chaired the U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works (EPW) from 2003 to 2007 and again from 2015 until 2017. Inhofe previously served seven years as the U.S. Representative for (1987–1994) and six as Mayor of Tulsa (1978–1984).\n\nInhofe is best-known for his denial of global warming. He supports a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage and has proposed the Inhofe Amendment to make English the national language of the United States.\n\nInhofe served as acting chairman of the Armed Services Committee while John McCain fought cancer in 2018. After McCain's death, he became chairman.\n\nInhofe was born in Des Moines, Iowa, the son of Blanche (née Mountain) and Perry Dyson Inhofe. He moved with his family to Tulsa, Oklahoma, when he was a child. He was a member of the Class of 1953 at Tulsa Central High School, and served in the United States Army from 1957 to 1958. Inhofe received a B.A. degree in economics from the University of Tulsa in 1973. Prior to his 1994 campaign for the U.S. Senate, Inhofe's official biographies and news articles about him beginning in the early 1960s indicated that he had graduated in 1959. Inhofe initially denied the stories that uncovered the discrepancy, but later acknowledged them. After admitting that the stories were true, Inhofe explained that he had been allowed to take part in graduation ceremonies in 1959, though he was a few credits short of completing his degree, and had not completed the last of his coursework until 1973.\n\nInhofe worked as a businessman for 30 years before becoming a full-time politician. He worked in aviation, as a real estate developer, and in insurance, eventually becoming the president of Quaker Life Insurance Company. During the time he worked for Quaker Life, the company went into receivership; it was liquidated in 1986.\n\nInhofe became active in Oklahoma Republican politics in the mid-1960s. He was a member of the Oklahoma House of Representatives from 1967 to 1969, and a member of the Oklahoma Senate from 1969 until 1977, the last four of those years as minority leader.\n\nIn 1974, he ran for Governor of Oklahoma. In October 1974, then-President Gerald Ford visited Oklahoma to campaign for him. A late October poll by the Daily Oklahoman showed Boren leading 74%–25%. He lost to Democratic State Representative David Boren 64%–36%. Inhofe won only four counties in the election. He lost 57 pounds during the campaign and was down to 148 pounds.\n\nIn 1976, he ran for Oklahoma's 1st congressional district. In the Republican primary, he defeated State Senator Frank Keating and Mary Warner 67%–25%–8%. In the general election, he lost to incumbent Democrat James R. Jones 54%–45%.\n\nIn 1978, he ran for mayor of Tulsa, defeating Democrat Rodger Randle 51%–46%. In 1980, he won reelection unopposed and in 1982, he won reelection with 59%.\n\nIn 1986, when Congressman Jones decided to retire to run for the U.S. Senate, Inhofe ran for the 1st District and won the Republican primary with 54%. In the general election, he defeated Democrat Gary Allison 55%–43%. In 1988, he won reelection against Democrat Kurt Glassco, Governor George Nigh's legal counsel, 53%–47%. In 1990, he defeated Glassco in a rematch 56%–44%. After redistricting, the 1st District contained only two counties, all of Tulsa and some parts of Wagoner. In 1992, he won reelection with 53% of the vote.\n\nIn 1987, he voted against President Ronald Reagan's budget, which included tax increases and no increase in defense spending.\n\nHe first came to national attention in 1993, when he led the effort to reform the House's discharge petition rule, which the House leadership had long used to bottle up bills in committee.\n\nIn 1994, incumbent Senator David Boren, who had been serving in the Senate since 1979, agreed to become president of the University of Oklahoma and announced he would resign as soon as a successor was elected. Inhofe was elected Boren's successor in an election cycle that saw the Republican Party take both houses of Congress and the Oklahoma governorship (the latter for only the third time in state history). Inhofe took office on November 16, giving him more seniority than the incoming class of senators. After serving the last two years of Boren's term, he won his first full term in 1996. He was reelected in 2002, 2008 and 2014.\n\nIn the 2008 election cycle, Inhofe's largest campaign donors represented the oil and gas ($446,900 in donations), leadership PACs ($316,720) and electric utilities ($221,654) industries/categories.\nIn 2010, his largest donors represented the oil and gas ($429,950) and electric ($206,654) utilities.\n\nThe primary PACs donating to his campaigns were Aircraft Owners & Pilots Association ($55,869), United Parcel Service ($51,850), National Association of Realtors ($51,700), National Rifle Association ($51,050) and American Medical Association ($51,000). Additionally, if company-sponsored PACs were combined with employee contributions, Koch Industries would be Inhofe's largest contributor, with $90,950 (less than 0.6% of total contributions), according to the Center for Responsive Politics.\n\nAs a member of the Armed Services Committee, Inhofe was among the panelists questioning witnesses about the 2004 Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse, saying he was \"outraged by the outrage\" over the revelations of abuse. Although he believed that the individuals responsible for mistreating prisoners should be punished, he said that the prisoners \"are not there for traffic violations ... they're murderers, they're terrorists, they're insurgents\". In 2006, Inhofe was one of only nine senators to vote against the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005, which prohibits \"cruel, inhuman or degrading\" treatment of individuals in U.S. Government custody.\n\nWhen chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee John McCain was absent seeking medical treatment for brain cancer from December 2017, Inhofe became acting chairman of the committee. During this time, Inhofe helped secure the passage of the record $716 billion National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. McCain died in August 2018, and Inhofe lauded him as his \"hero\".\nInhofe also said that McCain was \"partially to blame for\" the White House's controversial decision to raise flags back to full mast after less than two days, as McCain previously \"disagreed with the President in certain areas and wasn't too courteous about it\".\n\nInhofe, as of the 115th Congress, is a member of the following committees:\n\n\nInhofe is the most conservative member of both the House and Senate, according to the 2017 GovTrack report card.\n\nBefore the Republicans regained control of the Senate in the November 2002 elections, Inhofe had compared the United States Environmental Protection Agency to a Gestapo bureaucracy, and EPA Administrator Carol Browner to Tokyo Rose. In January 2003, he became Chair of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, and continued challenging mainstream science in favor of what he called \"sound science\", in accordance with the Luntz memo.\n\nSince 2003, when he was first elected Chair of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, Inhofe has been the foremost Republican promoting arguments for climate change denial in the global warming controversy. He famously said in the Senate that global warming is a hoax, and has invited contrarians to testify in Committee hearings, and spread his views via the Committee website run by Marc Morano, and through his access to conservative media. In 2012, Inhofe's \"The Greatest Hoax: How the Global Warming Conspiracy Threatens Your Future\" was published by WorldNetDaily Books, presenting his global warming conspiracy theory. He said that, because \"God's still up there\", the \"arrogance of people to think that we, human beings, would be able to change what He is doing in the climate is to me outrageous.\" However, he says he appreciates that this does not win arguments, and he has \"never pointed to Scriptures in a debate, because I know this would discredit me.\" His opposition to climate action is as much based on concerns about over-regulation of businesses, and he has shown ability to work with his Senate opponents on other issues: in 2003 he co-sponsored legislation to protect the Kemp's ridley sea turtle.\n\nAs Environment and Public Works chairman, Inhofe made a two-hour-long Senate Floor speech on July 28, 2003, in the context of discussions on the McCain-Lieberman Bill. He said he was \"going to expose the most powerful, most highly financed lobby in Washington, the far left environmental extremists\", and laid out in detail his opposition to attribution of recent climate change to humans, using the word \"hoax\" four times including the statement that he had \"offered compelling evidence that catastrophic global warming is a hoax\", and his conclusion expressing his belief that \"manmade global warming is the greatest hoax ever perpetrated on the American people\".\nHe supported what he called \"sound science\" with citations from scientists; contrarians including Patrick Michaels, Fred Singer, Richard Lindzen and Sallie Baliunas as well as some mainstream scientists. Two of these, Tom Wigley and Stephen Schneider, later issued statements that Inhofe had misrepresented their work.\n\nOn July 29, the day after his Senate speech, Inhofe chaired an Environment and Public Works hearing with contrarian views represented by Baliunas and David Legates, and praised their \"1,000-year climate study\", then involved in the Soon and Baliunas controversy, as \"a powerful new work of science\". Against them, Michael E. Mann defended mainstream science and specifically his work which they and the Bush administration disputed in the hockey stick controversy. During the hearing Senator Jim Jeffords read out an email from Hans von Storch saying he had resigned as editor-in-chief of the journal which had published the Soon and Baliunas paper, as the peer-review had \"failed to detect significant methodological flaws in the paper\" and the critique published by Mann and colleagues was valid.\n\nIn a continuation of these themes, Inhofe had a 20-page brochure published under the Seal of the United States Senate reiterating his \"hoax\" statement, comparing the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) to a \"Soviet style trial\", and in a section headed \"The IPCC Plays Hockey\" he attacked what he called \"Mann's flawed, limited research.\" The brochure restated themes from Inhofe's Senate speech, and in December 2003, he distributed copies of it in Milan at a meeting discussing the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, where he met \"green activists\" with posters quoting him as saying that global warming \"is the greatest hoax ever perpetrated on the American people\". He signed a poster for them, and thanked them for quoting him correctly. In an October 2004 Senate speech he said \"Global warming is the greatest hoax ever perpetrated on the American people. It was true when I said it before, and it remains true today. Perhaps what has made this hoax so effective is that we hear over and over that the science is settled and there is a consensus that, unless we fundamentally change our way of life by limiting greenhouse gas emissions, we will cause catastrophic global warming. This is simply a false statement.\" In January 2005, Inhofe told Bloomberg News that global warming was \"the second-largest hoax ever played on the American people, after the separation of church and state\", and that carbon dioxide would not be restricted by the Clear Skies Act of 2003. In a Senate Floor \"update\", he extended his argument against Mann's work by extensively citing Michael Crichton's fictional thriller, \"State of Fear\", mistakenly describing Crichton as a \"scientist\". On August 28, 2005, at Inhofe's invitation, Crichton appeared as an expert witness at a hearing on climate change, disputing Mann's work.\n\nIn \"The Republican War on Science\", Chris Mooney stated in 2006 that Inhofe \"politicizes and misuses the science of climate change\".\nDuring a heat wave in July 2006, Inhofe said to the \"Tulsa World\" newspaper that the environmentalist movement reminded him of \"the Third Reich, the Big Lie\", as \"You say something over and over and over and over again, and people will believe it, and that's their strategy.\"\n\nIn a September 2006 Senate speech, Inhofe argued that the threat of global warming was exaggerated by \"the media, Hollywood elites and our pop culture\". He said that in the 1960s the media had switched from warning of global warming to warning of global cooling and a coming ice age, then in the 1970s had returned to warming to promote \"climate change fears\". In February 2007, he told \"Fox News\" that mainstream science increasingly attributed climate change to natural causes, and only \"those individuals on the far left, such as Hollywood liberals and the United Nations\" opposed this.\n\nIn 2006, Inhofe introduced Senate Amendment 4682 with Kit Bond (R-MO), which would have modified oversight responsibility of the Army Corps of Engineers. The League of Conservation Voters, an environmentalist group, said analyses for corps projects \"have been manipulated to favor large-scale projects that harm the environment.\" During the 109th Congress, Inhofe voted to increase offshore oil drilling, to include provisions for drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in the House Budget Amendment, and to deny funding for both low-income energy assistance and environmental stewardship, citing heavy costs and unproven programs.\n\nIn May 2009, he gave support to the idea that black carbon is a significant contributor to global warming.\n\nInhofe has been a recipient of monies from the fossil fuel industry. For example: \"Exxon's beneficiaries in Congress include the Oklahoma senator Jim Inhofe, who called global warming a hoax, and who has received $20,500 since 2007, according to the Dirty Energy Money database maintained by Oil Change International.\" \n\nOn November 23, 2009, as the Climatic Research Unit email controversy emerged, Inhofe said that the emails confirmed his view that scientists were \"cooking the science\". On December 7 on the CNN program \"The Situation Room\", Inhofe said that the emails showed that the science behind climate change \"has been pretty well debunked\", the fact checking organization Politifact concluded that Inhofe's statement was false. On the same day, Inhofe said he would lead a three-man \"truth squad\" consisting of himself and fellow senators Roger Wicker and John Barrasso to the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen. However, Inhofe was unable to secure meetings with any negotiators or delegations to the conference and only met with a small group of reporters. The minority group of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works prepared a report on \"the CRU Controversy\", published in February 2010, which listed as \"Key Players\" 17 scientists including Mann and Jones. Inhofe said it showed that the controversy was \"about unethical and potentially illegal behavior by some of the world's leading climate scientists.\" On May 26, Inhofe formally requested the Inspector General of the United States Department of Commerce to investigate how the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) had dealt with the emails, and whether the emails showed any wrongdoing; it found no major issues or inappropriate actions.\n\nIn July 2010, Inhofe stated, \"I don't think that anyone disagrees with the fact that we actually are in a cold period that started about nine years ago. Now, that's not me talking, those are the scientists that say that.\" The Union of Concerned Scientists said that what Inhofe stated was wrong, pointing to an NOAA report indicating that, through July 2010 had been the hottest summer on record since 1880. Inhofe added that \"People on the other side of this argument back in January, they said, 'Inhofe, it has nothing to do with today's or this month or next month. We're looking at a long period of time. We go into twenty year periods.'\"\n\nDuring a House committee hearing in 2011, Inhofe testified, \"I have to admit—and, you know, confession is good for the soul ... I, too, once thought that catastrophic global warming was caused by anthropogenic gases—because everyone said it was.\" Under questioning from committee member Jay Inslee, Inhofe dismissed the notion that he was less knowledgeable than climate scientists, saying that he'd already given \"five speeches on the science.\"\n\nOn January 21, 2015, Inhofe returned to chairing the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, as part of a new Republican majority in the Senate. In response to reports by NOAA and NASA that the year 2014 had been the warmest globally in the temperature record, he said \"we had the coldest in the western hemisphere in the same time frame\", and attributed changes to a 30-year cycle, not human activities. In a debate on the same day about a bill for the Keystone XL pipeline, Inhofe endorsed an amendment proposed by Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, \"Climate change is real and not a hoax\", which passed 98–1. Inhofe clarified his view that \"Climate is changing and climate has always changed and always will. There is archaeological evidence of that, there is biblical evidence of that, there is historical evidence of that\", but added that \"there are some people who are so arrogant to think they are so powerful they can change climate.\"\n\nOn February 26, 2015, Inhofe brought a snowball on to the Senate floor and tossed it before delivering remarks in which he claimed that environmentalists keep talking about global warming even though it keeps getting cold.\n\nOn March 19, 2015, Inhofe introduced S.828, \"The Fracturing Regulations are Effective in State Hands (FRESH) Act.\" The bill would transfer regulatory power over hydraulic fracturing from the federal government to state governments. In his announcement of the bill, Inhofe said that hydraulic fracturing has never contaminated ground water in Oklahoma (the state he represents in the Senate). Both U.S. senators from 7 states (Arkansas, Idaho, Kentucky, Louisiana, South Dakota and Texas) cosponsored the bill with Inhofe.\n\nInhofe co-authored and was one of 22 senators to sign a letter to President Donald Trump urging the President to have the United States withdraw from the Paris Agreement. According to the Center for Responsive Politics, Inhofe has received over $529,000 from the oil and gas industry since 2012.\n\nIn a Senate speech on March 4, 2002, Inhofe presented his position on the \"seven reasons that Israel has the right to their land.\"\n\nThese are summarized as follows:\n\n\nIn a Senate speech, Inhofe said that America should base its Israel policy on the text of the Bible:\n\nIn March 2002, Inhofe also made a speech before the U.S. Senate that included the explicit suggestion that the 9/11 terrorist attacks were a form of divine retribution against the U.S. for failing to defend Israel. He said: \n\nOne of the reasons I believe the spiritual door was opened for an attack against the United States of America is that the policy of our Government has been to ask the Israelis, and demand it with pressure, not to retaliate in a significant way against the terrorist strikes that have been launched against them.\n\nInhofe has condemned President Barack Obama's inaction on Syria.\n\nInhofe wrote the Inhofe Amendment to the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006, which was debated in Congress in May 2006. The amendment would make English the national language of the United States and require that new citizens take an English proficiency test. The amendment was passed on May 18, 2006, with 32 Democrats, one independent, and one Republican dissenting. The measure had 11 cosponsors, including one Democrat.\n\nIn the debate, Inhofe cited a 2005 Zogby Poll showing 84% of Americans support making English the official language of governmental operations, including 71% of Hispanics. He also noted that 27 states and 51 nations have made English their official language and that the Office of Management and Budget estimated that it costs taxpayers $1–2 billion to provide language assistance under President Bill Clinton's Executive Order 13166 that created the entitlement to services provided in any language other than English.\n\nInhofe has generally been seen as overtly hostile by LGBT advocacy groups, earning a 0% in every one of his terms on Human Rights Campaign's position scorecard. Inhofe is in favor of a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, against adding sexual orientation to the definition of hate crimes, and voted against prohibiting job discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. Inhofe's office has said he \"does not hire openly gay staffers due to the possibility of a conflict of agenda.\"\n\nInhofe campaigned for his Senate seat in 1994 using the phrase \"God, guns, and gays.\" In 2008, his campaign was noted by the Associated Press for running an ad with \"anti-gay overtones\" featuring a wedding cake with two male figures on top, fading into his opponent's face.\n\nInhofe, an initial sponsor of Senator Jim Webb's Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2008, subsequently withdrew support for this bill to support S 2938, a competing bill that would have provided benefits beyond those offered in Webb's bill. However, Inhofe voted to enact Webb's legislation in June 2008.\n\nInhofe agreed to support legislation allowing military mental health specialists to talk with veterans about private firearms in an effort to reduce suicides.\n\nTrained by the U.S. Navy, Inhofe is one of the few members of Congress who is licensed as a commercial pilot. In 1994, when he first ran for the U.S. Senate, he used his plane as a daily campaign vehicle to travel throughout Oklahoma and visit almost every town in the state. He has been influential in Senate and Congressional debates involving aircraft regulation.\n\nOn October 21, 2010, at the age of 75, Inhofe landed his Cessna on a closed runway at a south Texas airport, scattering construction workers who ran for their lives. In a recorded telephone call, the men's supervisor told the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) that Inhofe \"scared the crap out of\" the workers, adding that the Cessna \"damn near hit\" a truck. And the airport manager, also speaking to the FAA in a recorded telephone call, opined: \"I've got over 50 years flying, three tours of Vietnam, and I can assure you I have never seen such a reckless disregard for human life in my life. Something needs to be done. This guy is famous for these violations.\"\n\nIn response to the incident, Inhofe stated that he \"did nothing wrong\", and accused the FAA of \"agency overreach\" and causing a \"feeling of desperation\" in him. He agreed to take a remedial training program, and the FAA agreed not to pursue legal action against him if he took the program. In July 2011, Inhofe introduced a bill to create a \"Pilot's Bill of Rights\" which he said would increase fairness in FAA enforcement actions. The bill was passed in 2012.\n\nInhofe states that he has made over 140 trips to Africa over about 20 years and helped to get United States Africa Command established. Inhofe has made multiple foreign trips, especially to Africa, on missions that he described as \"a Jesus thing\" and that were paid for by the U.S. government. He has used these trips for activities on behalf of The Fellowship, a Christian organization. Inhofe has said that his trips included some governmental work but also involved \"the political philosophy of Jesus, something that had been put together by Doug Coe, the leader of The Fellowship ... It's all scripturally based.\" Inhofe used his access as a Senator to pursue religious goals.\n\nInhofe has consistently voted against federal disaster relief, most notably in the case of relief for the 24 states affected by Hurricane Sandy. However, he argues for federal aid when natural disasters hit Oklahoma. In defense of his decision to vote against a relief fund for Hurricane Sandy, but not in Oklahoma after tornadoes ravaged the state in May 2013, he claimed the situations were \"totally different\" the difference being the Sandy funding involved \"Everybody getting in and exploiting the tragedy that took place. That won't happen in Oklahoma.\" Inhofe pointedly did not thank President Obama for his attention to the tragedy in his state, so as to not be compared to Chris Christie.\n\nEarly during the Republican Party presidential primaries in 2016, Inhofe endorsed fellow Republican John Kasich.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 2017 Las Vegas shooting, Inhofe blamed the \"culture of sanctuary cities\" rather than lax gun control legislation for the shootings.\n\nIn 1959, Inhofe married Kay Kirkpatrick, with whom he has four children.\n\nOn November 10, 2013, Inhofe's son, Dr. Perry Inhofe, died in a plane crash in Owasso, Oklahoma, flying alone for the first time since training in a newly acquired plane.\n\nInhofe was the first recipient of the U.S. Air Force Academy's Character and Leadership Award for his character and leadership in public service.\n\n"}
{"id": "21560699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21560699", "title": "Kees van der Pijl", "text": "Kees van der Pijl\n\nKees van der Pijl (born 15 June 1947) is a Dutch political scientist who is emeritus professor of international relations at the University of Sussex. He is known for his critical approach to global political economy and has published, amongst others, \"Flight MH17, Ukraine and the New Cold War. Prism of Disaster\" (2018), a trilogy on \"Modes of Foreign Relations and Political Economy\" (2007, 2010, 2014); \"Global Rivalries from the Cold War to Iraq\" (2006); \"Transnational Classes and International Relations\" (1998); and \"The Making of an Atlantic Ruling Class\" (1984, reprinted 2012).\n\nKees van der Pijl studied law at Leiden University from 1965 to 1967. After military service as a reserve officer in the Royal Dutch Military Police, and a trip through the Soviet Union to Japan in 1970, he switched to political science, a specialisation taught in Leiden as part of the public law degree. His most influential teachers were , , and the Indologist, J.C. Heesterman, with whom he wrote his final thesis on the politics of regional diversity in India.\nHe graduated in 1973 and was hired as a junior lecturer by the Department of International Relations at the University of Amsterdam in that year. In 1983 he received his doctorate at the University of Amsterdam on a thesis titled \"Imperialism and Class Formation in the North Atlantic Area\", supervised by Gerd Junne. He was involved in the Communist Party of the Netherlands (CPN) and also published short stories and three novels (1989, 1992, 1994, all with De Harmonie). Van der Pijl was co-director of the Research Centre for International Political Economy (Recipe) from 1992 to 1998. With Henk Overbeek, Ries Bode, Otto Holman, Bastiaan van Apeldoorn and others, this created a tentative Amsterdam School of global political economy.\n\nIn 2000, Van der Pijl moved to the United Kingdom to take up the chair in international relations at the University of Sussex, vacant after the retirement of Professor Michael Nicholson. He was appointed director of the Centre for Global Political Economy (CGPE) at that university when it was launched in 2001 (until 2006), and was subject chair/head of the Department of Politics and International Relations from 2002 to 2004. In 2006 he was awarded a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship. He has taught as a visiting professor at the University of Auvergne at Clermont-Ferrand (2005, 2006) and at L’Orientale University in Naples (2009, 2010). His work has been nominated for prizes in 2007 and 2008 and he was awarded the Deutscher Memorial Prize in 2008 for \"Nomads, Empires, States\" (Pluto 2007). On his return to the Netherlands he joined the Dutch Anti-Fascist Resistance (AFVN/BvA, issued from the wartime communist underground). He served as its president from 2013 to October 2015 and was involved in launching a Committee of Vigilance Against Resurgent Fascism of which he is the current president.\n\nThe work of Kees van der Pijl covers four main areas: a) transnational classes; b) the structure of the global political economy; c) the history of ideas in International Relations and Global Political Economy; d) modes of foreign relations.\n\nThe study of transnational class formation was central in the work at the University of Amsterdam. It built on the writings of Christian Palloix, Nikos Poulantzas, Alfred Sohn-Rethel and on the materialist Cold War history in the United States (Joyce and Gabriel Kolko). Van der Pijl’s contribution was on the transmission of American mass production to Western Europe in the Marshall Plan and the relegation of the cartelised European steel industry to the role of a supplier for the automobile industry, resulting in a first book in Dutch (1978). Economic statesmen involved in this process weld their different ‘fractional’ perspectives (heavy/light industrial, national/international trade, investment and commercial banking, etc.) into ‘globale beheersconcepties’ (comprehensive concepts of control, a notion coined by Ries Bode). A concept of control projects a presumed general interest totalising all others, under the guidance of the dominant fraction. In his doctoral dissertation of 1983 and the book based on it (\"The Making of an Atlantic Ruling Class\", Verso 1984, reprinted with a new preface 2012), Van der Pijl applied this to the evolution of transatlantic class formation. In \"Transnational Classes and International Relations\" (Routledge 1998), neoliberalism is identified as the hegemonic concept of control in the closing decades of the 20th century. This book also analyses the managerial ‘cadre’, an auxiliary class of salaried functionaries with directive-educative roles. The cadre typically come to the fore in major crises (the 1930s, the 1970s, and again today), proposing managerial alternatives to liberalism. If not checked by popular mobilization, their intervention may assume authoritarian forms.\n\nChallenging the state-centric understanding of world politics, which assumes that each state contains a self-enclosed society, van der Pijl distinguishes a \"Lockean heartland\" (after the ideologue of the 1688 Glorious Revolution in England) at the centre of the global political economy. This is composed of the white-majority, English-speaking countries. Its common law tradition favouring social self-regulation and distrust of state encroachment, ideology of possessive individualism, and missionary interpretation of its role in the world (inspired by Puritanism) have fostered the development of capitalist social relations. The Lockean heartland has interacted with rival states seeking to impose themselves on their societies, to balance and withstand the influence of the liberal West and avoid colonisation. These \"contender states\", of which France in the long 18th century, Germany, Japan and Italy from the late 19th to the mid-20th centuries, and the Soviet Union after World War II, have been the most important ones, develop through revolutions from above (Gramsci’s ‘passive revolution’) into alternatives to transnational Western liberalism. This line of analysis, developed in \"Transnational Classes and International Relations\" and more recently in \"Global Rivalries from the Cold War to Iraq\" (Pluto and Sage-Vistaar 2006, Turkish trans., Imge 2014) leads to the identification of China as the current primary contender.\n\nBuilding on the concepts of the Anglophone Lockean heartland and the contender states, Van der Pijl in \"Vordenker der Weltpolitik\" (Leske+Budrich 1996, revised from an earlier work in Dutch) argued that the liberal West typically produced ‘idealist’ conceptions of world order, against the ‘realist’ power politics perspective of the contenders. After World War I, there was an exodus of such ‘realists’ from the European continent to the United States, incorporating the realist argument into the IR mainstream. At Sussex, Van der Pijl has posted a web-textbook for the MA in Global Political Economy, 'A Survey of Global Political Economy'. In volumes II and III of his \"Modes of foreign relations\" project, Van der Pijl discusses what myth and religion say about foreign relations, and how liberalism prescribes the nation-state form for the world. The third volume, The Discipline of Western Supremacy (2014) presents a historical sociology of the IR discipline in this light.\n\nIn the Modes of foreign relations project, sponsored by the Leverhulme Trust under a major research fellowship 2006-2009, Van der Pijl argues that inter-state relations (as well as the national state form itself) are transient, historical forms of more fundamental foreign relations. Just as Marx developed a critique of equilibrium economics by claiming that this was only one ‘mode of production’, which had been preceded and would be followed by others, Van der Pijl in this project challenges the ‘IR’ paradigm. Modes of foreign relations include a tribal, an empire/nomad, the sovereign equality, and the global governance modes; in each, a specific way occupation of space, its protection, and the exchange with others, are made possible by a given level of civilisation.\n\nVan der Pijl has claimed that Israel was behind the 9/11 attacks 'with help from Zionists in the US government', and that Al-Qaeda is a front for the Israeli Mossad.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58533891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58533891", "title": "Kentucky Department of Education", "text": "Kentucky Department of Education\n\nThe Kentucky Department of Education (KY DOE) is an agency run by the Kentucky government which regulates education in the state of Kentucky. \nThe Kentucky Department of Education became an official organization when the legislature gave it a definition in 1924. Its headquarters is located in Frankfort, Kentucky.\n\nIn 1848, Kentucky citizens voted for a law that allowed taxation to support schools. In 1938, new laws were passed allowing vocational-technical schools to be formed. In 1956, vocational-technical schools were expanded to help those who were blind. There was a focus on providing training and jobs for the visually impaired. The vocational schools became controlled, like other public schools in the state, by the Department of Education in 1962. The Kentucky Education Reform Act (KERA) became a law in 1990. It is enforced by the Kentucky Department of Education. KRS 159.010 is the original Kentucky law requiring children from age 6 to 16 to attend school. This law was modified by a 2013 Senate bill, raising the dropout age to 18 effective in the 2015-2016 school year. The Department of Education has decided to partner with the School Improvement Network to use programs such as PD 360 and Common Core 360 to educate students.\nAccording to \"Goals of the Kentucky Department of Education,\" a booklet published by the State Board of Education in 1974, the Kentucky Department of Education aims to reach the following goals:\n\n\nThe Kentucky Board of Education was established by a 1838 law. It was made of \"ex officio\" members, meaning the board's power to perform its tasks was limited. The members of the board had other responsibilities within the state. The Board’s powers, at the time, included creating laws, establishing a course of study and choosing books for the courses, and controlling funds and property. The Board of Education is responsible for granting certificates for high school graduates, teacher training.\n\nThe Kentucky Board of Education consists of 11 members. The Governor appoints the members and they are confirmed by both the state House of Representatives and the Senate of the state of Kentucky. They are chosen regardless of political party. Each member of the board must be at least 30 years old, have an associates degree or higher, and have lived in Kentucky for at least 3 years. Each member serves for 4 years. Their main purpose is to make and adopt regulations and policies.\n\nThe state Board of Education has power over all of the schools in the state. The county board of education has power over each of the schools located within its county. The county’s board deals with issues that are of interest to the county.\n\nThere have been conflicts between the Board and the Department. In November 2015 the Knox County Board of Education was investigated by the Kentucky Department of Education. The Board in Knox County had violated Kentucky laws such as including personal matters into the district rules, disturbing district operation, or providing resources to independent schools for free. The Kentucky Department of Education is able to intervene and control the Boards in the state because it has more power than the Boards.\n\nThe 1838 law established a Board of Education in Kentucky also called for a superintendent that would serve for 2 years. The governor would elect the superintendent. \n\nA law was passed in 1850 allowing the superintendent to serve for 4 years and be elected by the people. Superintendents may not be re-elected due to a law passed in 1891. \n\nThe superintendent approves the building of new schools, monitors spending, and ensures school governments follow laws passed by the Board of Education. In 1893 the power of selecting books was given to the superintendent.\n\nSuperintendents are required to work full-time in an office in Frankfort.\n\nJohn Cabell Breckinridge, the 6th for Kentucky, was the superintendent in 1849.\n\nThe superintendent in 1974 was Lyman V. Ginger. \n\nThe current superintendent for the state of Kentucky is Wayne Lewis.\n\nOther positions include a Deputy Superintendent and a Secretary. There are multiple Assistant Superintendent positions focused on Instruction, Rehabilitation Services, Vocational Education, Pupil Personnel Services, Instruction, Administration, Finance, State Relations, Federal Relations.\n\n"}
{"id": "17422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17422", "title": "Kwanzaa", "text": "Kwanzaa\n\nKwanzaa () is a celebration held in the United States and in other nations of the African diaspora in the Americas and lasts a week. The celebration honors African heritage in African-American culture and is observed from December 26 to January 1, culminating in a feast and gift-giving. Kwanzaa has seven core principles (\"Nguzo Saba\"). It was created by Maulana Karenga and was first celebrated in 1966–67.\n\nAmerican Black Power activist and secular humanist Maulana Karenga, also known as Ronald McKinley Everett, created Kwanzaa in 1966, as a specifically African-American holiday, in a spirit comparable to Juneteenth. According to Karenga, the name Kwanzaa derives from the Swahili phrase \"matunda ya kwanza\", meaning \"first fruits of the harvest\". A more conventional translation would simply be \"first fruits\". The choice of Swahili, an East African language, reflects its status as a symbol of Pan-Africanism, especially in the 1960s, although most of the Atlantic slave trade that brought African people to America originated in West Africa.\n\nFirst fruits festivals exist in Southern Africa, celebrated in December/January with the southern solstice, and Karenga was partly inspired by an account he read of the Zulu festival Umkhosi Wokweshwama. It was decided to spell the holiday's name with an additional \"a\" so that it would have a symbolic seven letters.\n\nKwanzaa is a celebration with its roots in the black nationalist movement of the 1960s. Karenga established it to help African Americans reconnect with their African cultural and historical heritage by uniting in meditation and study of African traditions and \"Nguzo Saba\", the \"seven principles of African Heritage,\" which Karenga said \"is a communitarian African philosophy.\" For Karenga, a major figure in the Black Power movement of the 1960s and 1970s, the creation of such holidays also underscored an essential premise \"you must have a cultural revolution before the violent revolution.The cultural revolution gives identity, purpose and direction.\"\n\nDuring the early years of Kwanzaa, Karenga said it was meant to be an alternative to Christmas. He believed Jesus was psychotic and Christianity was a \"White\" religion that Black people should shun. As Kwanzaa gained mainstream adherents, Karenga altered his position so practicing Christians would not be alienated, then stating in the 1997, \"Kwanzaa: A Celebration of Family, Community, and Culture\", \"Kwanzaa was not created to give people an alternative to their own religion or religious holiday.\" Many African Americans who celebrate Kwanzaa do so in addition to observing Christmas.\n\nKwanzaa celebrates what its founder called the seven principles of Kwanzaa, or \"Nguzo Saba\" (originally \"Nguzu Saba\"—the seven principles of African Heritage), which Karenga said \"is a communitarian African philosophy,\" consisting of what Karenga called \"the best of African thought and practice in constant exchange with the world.\" They were developed in 1965, a year before Kwanzaa itself. These seven principles comprise \"Kawaida\", a Swahili word meaning \"common\". Each of the seven days of Kwanzaa is dedicated to one of the following principles, as follows:\n\n\nKwanzaa celebratory symbols include a mat (Mkeka) on which other symbols are placed: a \"Kinara\" (candle holder), \"Mishumaa Saba\" (seven candles), \"mazao\" (crops), \"Muhindi\" (corn), a \"Kikombe cha Umoja\" (unity cup) for commemorating and giving shukrani (thanks) to African Ancestors, and \"Zawadi\" (gifts). Supplemental representations include a Nguzo Saba poster, the black, red, and green \"bendera\" (flag), and African books and artworks – all to represent values and concepts reflective of African culture and contribution to community building and reinforcement. Corn is the primary symbol for both decoration and celebratory dining.\n\nFamilies celebrating Kwanzaa decorate their households with objects of art, colorful African cloth such as kente, especially the wearing of kaftans by women, and fresh fruits that represent African idealism. It is customary to include children in Kwanzaa ceremonies and to give respect and gratitude to ancestors. Libations are shared, generally with a common chalice, \"Kikombe cha Umoja\", passed around to all celebrants. Non-African Americans also celebrate Kwanzaa. The holiday greeting is \"Joyous Kwanzaa\".\n\nA Kwanzaa ceremony may include drumming and musical selections, libations, a reading of the African Pledge and the Principles of Blackness, reflection on the Pan-African colors, a discussion of the African principle of the day or a chapter in African history, a candle-lighting ritual, artistic performance, and, finally, a feast (karamu). The greeting for each day of Kwanzaa is \"Habari Gani?\" which is Swahili for \"How are you?\"\n\nAt first, observers of Kwanzaa avoided the mixing of the holiday or its symbols, values, and practice with other holidays, as doing so would violate the principle of \"kujichagulia\" (self-determination) and thus violate the integrity of the holiday, which is partially intended as a reclamation of important African values. Today, many African American families celebrate Kwanzaa along with Christmas and New Year's. Frequently, both Christmas trees and kinaras, the traditional candle holder symbolic of African American roots, share space in Kwanzaa-celebrating households. For people who celebrate both holidays, Kwanzaa is an opportunity to incorporate elements of their particular ethnic heritage into holiday observances and celebrations of Christmas.\n\nCultural exhibitions include the Spirit of Kwanzaa, an annual celebration held at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts featuring interpretive dance, African dance, song and poetry.\n\nThe National Retail Federation has sponsored a marketing survey on winter holidays since 2004, and in 2015 found that 1.9% of those polled planned to celebrate Kwanzaa – about six million people. In a 2006 speech, Maulana Karenga asserted that 28 million people celebrate Kwanzaa. He has always claimed it is celebrated all over the world. Lee D. Baker puts the number at 12 million. The African American Cultural Center claimed 30 million in 2009.\n\nAccording to University of Minnesota Professor Keith Mayes, the author of \"Kwanzaa: Black Power and the Making of the African-American Holiday Tradition,\" the popularity within the U.S. has \"leveled off\" as the black power movement there has declined, and as of 2009 between 500 thousand and two million Americans celebrated Kwanzaa, or between one and five percent of African Americans. Mayes added that white institutions now celebrate it.\n\nStarting in the 1990s, the holiday became increasingly commercialized, with the first Hallmark Card being sold in 1992, and there has been concern about this damaging the holiday's values. The holiday also saw a greater public recognition as the first Kwanzaa stamp, designed by Synthia Saint James, was issued by the United States Post Office in 1997, and in the same year Bill Clinton gave the first presidential declaration marking the holiday.\n\nThe holiday has also spread to Canada and is celebrated by Black Canadians in a similar fashion as in the United States. According to the Language Portal of Canada, \"this fairly new tradition has [also] gained in popularity in France, Great Britain, Jamaica and Brazil\".\n\nIn Brazil, in recent years the term Kwanzaa has been applied by a few institutions as a synonym for the festivities of the Black Awareness Day, commemorated on November 20 in honor of Zumbi dos Palmares, having little to do with the celebration as it was originally conceived.\n\nStjepan Meštrović, a sociology professor at the Texas A&M University, sees Kwanzaa as an example of postmodernism. According to Meštrović, modern society has discarded ancient traditions as racist, sexist or otherwise oppressive, but since living in a world where nothing is true is too terrifying to most people, \"nice\" and \"synthetic\" traditions like Kwanzaa have been created to cope with the nihilistic, individualistic modern society.<ref name=\"http://ro.uow.edu.au\"></ref>\n\nMaya Angelou narrated a documentary film about Kwanzaa, \"The Black Candle\", written and directed by M.K. Asante, Jr. and featuring Chuck D.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23654644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23654644", "title": "Limited global quota for upland cotton", "text": "Limited global quota for upland cotton\n\nThe Limited Global Quota for Upland Cotton is a provision of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977 (P.L. 95-113) that authorized the President to proclaim an import quota whenever the USDA determines that the spot market average price in any one month exceeds 130% of the previous 36-month average. If triggered by such a determination, the established quota allows for imports of up to 21 days of mill consumption during a 90-day period.\n\nThe limited global quota is among several provisions authorized in the bill to keep the U.S. upland cotton spinning industry competitive. These provisions include a special import quota, a limited global import quota, and an economic adjustment assistance payment to users of upland cotton.\n\nA limited global quota cannot overlap with the step 3 quota, one of the cotton competitiveness provisions. \n\nThe statutory provision is 7 USC 7937 - Sec. 7937\n\nThe special import quota is authorized when, for any consecutive 4-week period, the weekly average of the cheapest U.S. (Far Eastern) cotton price quotation exceeds the prevailing world market price (the average of the cheapest five Far Eastern price quotations).\n\nThe quota equals 1 week's domestic mill consumption of upland cotton at the seasonally adjusted average consumption rate during the most recent 3 months for which data are available. The quota applies to upland cotton purchased within 90 days after quota announcement and entered into the United States within 180 days after announcement.\n\nThe quantity imported under this special import quota during any marketing year (August 1-July 31) is limited to 10 week's domestic mill consumption of upland cotton as established in the first special import quota of any marketing year.\n\n (on Wikisource)\n"}
{"id": "397208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397208", "title": "List of Ontario general elections", "text": "List of Ontario general elections\n\nThis article provides a summary of results for the general elections to the Canadian province of Ontario's unicameral legislative body, the Legislative Assembly of Ontario. The number of seats has varied over time, from 82 for the first election in 1867, to a high of 130 for 1987, 1990 and 1995 elections. There are currently 124 seats. As of December 2016, Ontario elections are held every 4 years on the first Thursday in June.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23760556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23760556", "title": "Mandela Day", "text": "Mandela Day\n\nNelson Mandela International Day (or Mandela Day) is an annual international day in honour of Nelson Mandela, celebrated each year on 18 July, Mandela's birthday. The day was officially declared by the United Nations in November 2009, with the first UN Mandela Day held on 18 July 2010. However, other groups began celebrating Mandela Day on 18 July 2009.\n\nOn 27 April 2009, the 46664 concerts and the Nelson Mandela Foundation invited the global community to join them in support of an official Mandela Day. Mandela Day is not meant as a public holiday, but as a day to honour the legacy of Nelson Mandela, South Africa's former President, and his values, through volunteering and community service.\n\nMandela Day is a global call to action that celebrates the idea that each individual has the power to transform the world, the ability to make an impact.\n\nThe Mandela Day campaign message is:\n\nTo mark the first global celebration of Mandela Day on 18 July 2009, Mandela's 91st birthday, a series of educational, art exhibit, fund-raising and volunteer events leading up to a concert at Radio City Music Hall on 18 July were organised by the 46664 concerts and the Nelson Mandela Foundation. In November 2009, the United Nations General Assembly formally declared 18 July to be \"Nelson Mandela International Day\".\n\n"}
{"id": "896122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=896122", "title": "Mary Bethune Abbott", "text": "Mary Bethune Abbott\n\nMary Abbott, Lady Abbott (née Bethune; October 17, 1823 – February 25, 1898) was the wife of Sir John Abbott, the third Prime Minister of Canada.\n\nBethune was the daughter of Anglican clergyman and McGill acting president John Bethune. She and John Abbott married on July 26, 1849 and had four sons and four daughters. Mary and John Abbott are maternal great-grandparents of actor Christopher Plummer.\n\n"}
{"id": "304263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304263", "title": "Medical prescription", "text": "Medical prescription\n\nA prescription is a health-care program implemented by a physician or other qualified health care practitioner in the form\nof instructions that govern the plan of care for an individual patient. The term often refers to a health care provider's written authorization for a patient to purchase a prescription drug from a pharmacist.\n\nThe format of a prescription falls in to seven parts. However, with modern prescribing habits, some are no longer applicable or included on an everyday basis.\n\nDefinition: For such prescriptions to be accepted as a legal medical prescription, it needs to be filed by a qualified dentist, herbalist, nurse, pharmacist, physician, veterinarian etc., which falls within their remit to prescribe such treatments. This is regardless of whether they included controlled substances or freely available over-the-counter treatments. \nPrescriptions may be entered into an electronic medical record system and transmitted electronically to a pharmacy. Alternatively, a prescription may be handwritten on preprinted prescription forms that have been assembled into pads, or printed onto similar forms using a computer printer or even on plain paper according to the circumstance. In some cases, a prescription may be transmitted from the physician to the pharmacist orally by telephone; this practice may increase the risk of medical error. The content of a prescription includes the name and address of the prescribing provider and any other legal requirement such as a registration number (e.g. DEA Number in the United States). Unique for each prescription is the name of the patient. In the United Kingdom and Ireland, the patient's name and address must also be recorded. Each prescription is dated and some jurisdictions may place a time limit on the prescription. In the past, prescriptions contained instructions for the pharmacist to use for compounding the pharmaceutical product but most prescriptions now specify pharmaceutical products that were manufactured and require little or no preparation by the pharmacist. Prescriptions also contain directions for the patient to follow when taking the drug. These directions are printed on the label of the pharmaceutical product.\n\n'℞' is a symbol meaning \"recipe\". It is sometimes transliterated as \"R\" or just \"Rx\". This symbol originated in medieval manuscripts as an abbreviation of the late Latin verb \"recipere\", specifically the second person singular imperative form \"recipe\" meaning \"take\", thus: \"take thou\". Originally abbreviated \"Rc\", the \"c\" was simplified and finally written as a straight stroke making it look like an \"x\" in combination with the right \"leg\" of \"R\". Medieval prescriptions invariably began with the command to \"take\" certain materials and compound them in specified ways.\n\nFolk theories about the origin of the symbol '℞' note its similarity to the Eye of Horus, or to the ancient symbol for Zeus or Jupiter, (♃), gods whose protection may have been sought in medical contexts.\n\nThe word \"prescription\", from \"pre-\" (\"before\") and \"script\" (\"writing, written\"), refers to the fact that the prescription is an order that must be written down before a compound drug can be prepared. Those within the industry will often call prescriptions simply \"scripts\".\n\nIn certain states medical marijuana legislation has been drafted calling for a health care professional's written or oral \"recommendation\", in the belief that a written one would be legally distinguishable from a prescription, but since written advice to a patient is what a prescription is, that belief is mistaken. Jurisdictions may adopt a statutory definition of \"prescription\" that applies as a term of art only to the operation of that statute (see below about prescriptions that may legally be filled with prescription-only items), but the general legal definition of the word is this broad one.\n\nMany brand name drugs have cheaper generic drug substitutes that are therapeutically and biochemically equivalent. Prescriptions will also contain instructions on whether the prescriber will allow the pharmacist to substitute a generic version of the drug. This instruction is communicated in a number of ways.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, the preprinted prescription contains two signature lines: one line has \"dispense as written\" printed underneath; the other line has \"substitution permitted\" underneath. Some have a preprinted box \"dispense as written\" for the prescriber to check off (but this is easily checked off by anyone with access to the prescription). Other jurisdictions the protocol is for the prescriber to handwrite one of the following phrases: \"dispense as written\", \"DAW\", \"brand necessary\", \"do not substitute\", \"no substitution\", \"medically necessary\", \"do not interchange\". In other jurisdictions they may use completely different languages, never mind a different formula of words. In some jurisdictions, it may be a legal requirement to include the age of child on the prescription. For pediatric prescriptions some advise the inclusion of the age of the child if the patient is less than twelve and the age and months if less than five. (In general, including the age on the prescription is helpful.) Adding the weight of the child is also helpful.\n\nPrescriptions often have a \"label\" box. When checked, the pharmacist is instructed to label the medication and provide information about the prescription itself is given in addition to instructions on taking the medication. Otherwise, the patient is simply given the instructions.\n\nSome prescribers further inform the patient and pharmacist by providing the indication for the medication; i.e. what is being treated. This assists the pharmacist in checking for errors as many common medications can be used for multiple medical conditions.\n\nSome prescriptions will specify whether and how many \"repeats\" or \"refills\" are allowed; that is whether the patient may obtain more of the same medication without getting a new prescription from the medical practitioner. Regulations may restrict some types of drugs from being refilled.\n\nIn group practices, the preprinted portion of the prescription may contain multiple prescribers' names. Prescribers typically circle themselves to indicate who is prescribing or there may be a checkbox next to their name.\n\nNational or local (i.e. state or provincial) legislation governs who can write a prescription. In the United States, physicians (either M.D. and D.O.) have the broadest prescriptive authority. All 50 states and the District of Columbia allow licensed certified Physician Assistants (PAs) prescription authority (with some states, limitations exist to controlled substances). All 50 states allow registered certified nurse practitioners and other advanced practice registered nurses (such as certified nurse-midwives) prescription power (with some states including limitations to controlled substances). Many other healthcare professions also have prescriptive authority related to their area of practice. Veterinarians and dentists have prescribing power in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Clinical pharmacists are allowed to prescribe in some states through the use of a drug formulary or collaboration agreements. Florida pharmacists can write prescriptions for a limited set of drugs. In all states, optometrists prescribe medications to treat certain eye diseases, and also issue spectacle and contact lens prescriptions for corrective eyewear. Several states have passed RxP legislation, allowing clinical psychologists (PhDs or PsyDs) who are registered as medical psychologists and have also undergone specialized training in script-writing to prescribe drugs to treat emotional and mental disorders. Chiropractors may have the ability to write a prescription, depending on scope of practice laws in a jurisdiction.\n\nIn August 2013, legislative changes in the UK allowed physiotherapists and podiatrists to have independent prescribing rights for licensed medicines that are used to treat conditions within their own area of expertise and competence.\n\nPrescriptions, when handwritten, are notorious for being often illegible. In the US, illegible handwriting is at least indirectly responsible for the deaths of 7,000 people annually, according to a July 2006 report from the National Academies of Science's Institute of Medicine (IOM). Historically, physicians used Latin words and abbreviations to convey the entire prescription to the pharmacist. Today, many of the abbreviations are still widely used and must be understood to interpret prescriptions. At other times, even though some of the individual letters are illegible, the position of the legible letters and length of the word is sufficient to distinguish the medication based on the knowledge of the pharmacist. When in doubt, pharmacists call the medical practitioner. Some jurisdictions have legislated legible prescriptions (e.g. Florida). Some have advocated the elimination of handwritten prescriptions altogether and computer printed prescriptions are becoming increasingly common in some places.\n\nOver the years, prescribers have developed many conventions for prescription-writing, with the goal of avoiding ambiguities or misinterpretation.\nThese include:\n\n Many abbreviations are derived from Latin phrases. Hospital pharmacies have more abbreviations, some specific to the hospital. Different jurisdictions follow different conventions on what is abbreviated or not. Prescriptions that do not follow area conventions may be flagged as possible forgeries.\n\nSome abbreviations that are ambiguous, or that in their written form might be confused with something else, are not recommended and should be avoided. These are included in a separate list in Appendix 1. However, all abbreviations carry an increased risk for confusion and misinterpretation and should be used cautiously.\n\nIn continental Europe, prescriptions differ from their counterparts in the English-speaking world. With the exception of patient directions, they are written out entirely in abbreviations deriving from the Latin language. Furthermore, a larger proportion of prescriptions are compounded, and appropriate abbreviations and phrases exist for this. Many medical schools require up to two years of Latin as part of the curriculum for medical doctors and pharmacists.\n\nA continental European prescription consists of three parts:\n\n\nShould a patient require a dosage in excess of the maximum as established by the appropriate governmental body, this is marked by an exclamation mark and the highest recommended dosage in Latin. If this is not done, it is the responsibility of the pharmacist to contact the doctor as to dose requirements, or amend the dose to the highest recommended one.\n\nIn emergency situations, a prescription pad may not be available. In this situation, any piece of paper will do, provided it is marked \"Periculum in mora!\"; that is, \"danger in delay\" (other designations, such as \"Cito!\" or \"Statim!\", are also used and understood). Such ad-hoc prescriptions have a limited period of validity; typically, this is the day after the prescription is written.\n\nA doctor may self-prescribe, or prescribe for their family; this is done by replacing the \"signatura\" by the Latin phrase \"pro manus medici\" (for medical hands) or \"ad usum proprium\" (for own use). This is to be done with caution; certain drugs self-prescribed will arouse suspicion, and may result in investigation by the medical board or another governmental body.\n\nBrand-name drugs may be swapped for generics; if this is not wanted by the doctor, they may write \"dispense as written\" in the local language on the prescription.\n\nPrescriptions are also used for things that are not strictly regulated as a prescription drug. Prescribers will often give non-prescription drugs out as prescriptions because drug benefit plans may reimburse the patient only if the over-the-counter medication is taken under the direction of a medical practitioner. Conversely, if a medication is available over-the-counter, prescribers may ask patients if they want it as a prescription or purchase it themselves. Pharmacists may or may not be able to price the medication competitively with over-the-counter equivalents. If the patient wants the medication not under prescription, the prescriber is usually careful to give the medication name to the patient on a blank piece of paper to avoid any confusion with a prescription. This is applied to non-medications as well. For example, crutches, and registered massage therapy may be reimbursed under some health plans, but only if given out by a prescriber as a prescription. Some software now requires a prescription.\n\nPrescribers will often use blank prescriptions as general letterhead. Legislation may define certain equipment as \"prescription devices\". Such prescription devices can only be used under the supervision of authorized personnel and such authorization is typically documented using a prescription. Examples of prescription devices include dental cement (for affixing braces to tooth surfaces), various prostheses, gut sutures, sickle cell tests, cervical cap and ultrasound monitor.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, hypodermic syringes are in a special class of their own, regulated as illicit drug use accessories separate from regular medical legislation. Such legislation will often specify a prescription as the means by which one may legally possess syringes.\n\nPrescription may also be used as a short form for prescription drugs to distinguish from over-the-counter drugs. In reference to the entire system of controlling drug distribution (as opposed to illicit drugs), \"prescription\" is often used as a metaphor for healthy directions from a prescribing medical practitioner. A green prescription is direction from a medical practitioner to a patient for exercise and healthy diet.\n\nThe idea of prescriptions dates back to the beginning of history. So long as there were medications and a writing system to capture directions for preparation and usage, there were prescriptions.\n\nModern prescriptions are actually \"extemporaneous prescriptions\" (from the Latin \"ex tempore\" = at/from the time), meaning that the prescription is written on the spot for a specific patient with a specific ailment. This is distinguished from a non-extemporaneous prescription that is a generic recipe for a general ailment. Modern prescriptions evolved with the separation of the role of the pharmacists from that of the physician. Today the term \"extemporaneous prescriptions\" is reserved for \"compound prescriptions\" that requires the pharmacist to mix or \"compound\" the medication in the pharmacy for the specific needs of the patient.\n\nPredating modern legal definitions of a prescription, a prescription traditionally is composed of four parts: a \"superscription\", \"inscription\", \"subscription\", and \"signature\".\n\nThe \"superscription\" section contains the date of the prescription and patient information (name, address, age, etc.). The symbol \"℞\" separates the superscription from the inscriptions sections. In this arrangement of the prescription, the \"℞\" is a symbol for \"recipe\" or literally the imperative \"take!\" This is an exhortation to the pharmacist by the medical practitioner, \"I want the patient to have the following medication\" – in other words, \"take the following components and compound this medication for the patient.\"\n\nThe \"inscription\" section defines what is the medication. The inscription section is further composed of one or more of:\n\nThe \"subscription\" section contains dispensing directions to the pharmacist. This may be compounding instructions or quantities.\n\nThe \"signature\" section contains directions to the patient and is often abbreviated \"Sig.\" or \"Signa.\" It also obviously contains the signature of the prescribing medical practitioner though the word \"signature\" has two distinct meanings here and the abbreviations are sometimes used to avoid confusion.\n\nThus sample prescriptions in modern textbooks are often presented as:\n\nAs a prescription is nothing more than information among a prescriber, pharmacist and patient, information technology can be applied to it. Existing information technology is adequate to print out prescriptions. Medical information systems in some hospitals do away with prescriptions within the hospital. There are proposals to securely transmit the prescription from the prescriber to the pharmacist using smartcard or the internet. In the United Kingdom a project called the Electronic Transfer of Prescriptions (ETP) within the National Programme for IT (NPfIT) is currently piloting such a scheme between prescribers and pharmacies.\n\nWithin computerized pharmacies, the information on paper prescriptions is recorded into a database. Afterwards, the paper prescription is archived for storage and legal reasons.\n\nA pharmacy chain is often linked together through corporate headquarters with computer networking. Walgreens, for example, uses satellite technology to share patient information. A person who has a prescription filled at one branch can get a refill of that prescription at any other store in the chain, as well as have their information available for new prescriptions at any branch.\n\nSome online pharmacies also offer services to customers over the internet. Walgreens' web site, for example, allows customers to order refills for medicine over the internet, and allows them to specify the store that they will pick up the medicine from. Their web site also allows consumers to look up their prescription history, and to print it out.\n\nMany pharmacies now offer services to ship prescription refills right to the patient's home. CVS, for example, will ship refills free of charge. They also offer mail service where you can mail in a new, original prescription and a signed document, and they will ship the filled prescription back to you.\n\nPharmacy information systems are a potential source of valuable information for pharmaceutical companies as it contains information about the prescriber's prescribing habits. Prescription data mining of such data is a developing, specialized field.\n\nMany prescribers lack the digitized information systems that reduce prescribing errors. To reduce these errors, some investigators have developed modified prescription forms that prompt the prescriber to provide all the desired elements of a good prescription. The modified forms also contain pre-defined choices such as common quantities, units and frequencies that the prescriber may circle rather than write out. Such forms are thought to reduce errors, especially omission and handwriting errors and are actively under evaluation. (See: Kennedy AG, Littenberg B. A Modified Outpatient Prescription Form to Reduce Prescription Errors. \"Joint Commission Journal of Quality and Safety\" 2004; 30:480-487.)\n\n"}
{"id": "26553000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26553000", "title": "National Committee for West Papua", "text": "National Committee for West Papua\n\nThe National Committee for West Papua (abbreviated KNPB or Komite Nasional Papua Barat) was established on 19 November 2008 by a number of Papua NGOs. It is a Papuan peoples' organization campaigning, in a non-violent way, for a referendum for the Papuan people of West Papua (i.e. the Indonesian provinces of Papua and West Papua). The right to self-determination was withheld, though this the exercise of this right was provided for in the agreement between the governments of The Netherlands, Indonesia and the UN in 1962.\n\nThe International Parliamentarians for West Papua (IPWP) and the International Lawyers for West Papua (ILWP) support the case of the KNPB, using legal methods to realize the right to self-determination of the Papuan people of West Papua> They recognize the West Papua National Committee as the local advocate for self-determination, according to Mario Pigei of the KNPB. At a KNPB rally marking the registration of the IPWP and ILWP at the European Union in Brussels, coordinator Mario Pigei said \"Human rights violations continue being committed in Papua with the killings of Papuan leaders like Kelly Kwalik\"\n\nThe KNPB tries to achieve its goals through non-violent means and with dignity. KNPB cooperates with the International Parliamentarians for West Papua and the International Lawyers for West Papua (ILWP). KNPB was formed in 2008 in Jayapura by various Papuan NGOs. \n\nIn April 2009, eight protesters were killed by police during a demonstration, organized by the KNPB,involving more than 15,000 people. A police officer was wounded by an arrow. \n\nIn 2009, at the suggestion of the KNPB, hundreds of Papuan students in Java, Bali, Makassar and Manado made an exodus back to Papua to set up shelters in the field in Sentani, where Theys Eluay is buried. They were, however, chased from there by the police. Several students were arrested and imprisoned.\n\nOn 22 March 2010, the KNPB organized a series of new street demonstrations. Fifteen participants were arrested after police used firearms to disperse the crowd. \n\nIn November 2010, the Congress of the KNPB elected Buchtar Tabuni as chairman, Augustine Trapen as Secretary, Mako Tabuni as Vice-Chairman, and Victor Yeimo as International Spokesperson. KNPB branches were established in almost all regions of West Papua. The KNPB has also representatives in Jakarta and Manado. The KNPB has a strong international network. \n\nBuchtar Tabuni and Victor Yeimo were both arrested and sentenced to three years' imprisonment charged with incitement and a breach of the security of the state of Indonesia. In 2011 Buchtar was again imprisoned, charged with destroying prison property, while in custody. His deputy, Mako Tabuni, was assassinated on 14 June 2012 by plain cloth police officers, members of the anti terrorist unit Densus 88. Victor Yeimo succeeded Buchtar Tabuni as chairman, but went immediately in hiding as the police was also after him.\n\nThe KNPB has been successful in mobilizing thousands of people in almost all regions of West Papua. On 2 August 2011, the ILWP organized a Conference to seek legal ways to resolve the political status of West Papua. The present status is considered illegal as the population never was enabled to exercise the right to self-determination to which it was entitled according to international treaties, which were supervised by the UN. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1343558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343558", "title": "National Parliamentary Tournament of Excellence", "text": "National Parliamentary Tournament of Excellence\n\nThe National Parliamentary Tournament of Excellence operates an invitation-only national championship tournament once per year for parliamentary debate (a.k.a. parli). NPTE attracts the top teams in the nation that compete in the parli debate format supported by the National Parliamentary Debate Association.\n\nTeams qualify for the NPTE based on their season-long performances at various invitational tournaments around the United States. The ranking system awards points for both preliminary and elimination round performances. Only the top 64 teams in the nation are invited to attend the NPTE.\n\nThose interested in learning more about the NPTE can visit the NPTE web page or can post questions on Net-Benefits.net - a parliamentary debate forum.\n\n"}
{"id": "22410581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22410581", "title": "National Party South Africa", "text": "National Party South Africa\n\nThe National Party South Africa (NP) is a registered South African political party, who competed for the Western Cape province in the 2009 provincial election and municipal council seats in the 2011 local government elections.\n\nOn 5 August 2008 a new party using the National Party name was formed and registered with the Independent Electoral Commission. The initial leadership was held by David Sasman, Juan-Duval Uys, Abdullah Omar, (all previously with the controversial National People's Party [NPP]) and a fourth person, not immediately named, who later turned out to be Achmat Williams. Williams, a former New National Party (NNP) politician, was a member of the Independent Democrats before co-founding the new party. Other than some low-level former members, the new party had no formal connection with the now defunct NNP. The relaunched National Party of 2008 promotes a non-racial democratic South Africa based on federal principles and the legacy of FW De Klerk.\n\nA press release issued by Jean-Duval Uys on the party's website, dated 22 January 2009, deals with a Cape High Court challenge against Uys by Williams and Omar on behalf of themselves and Sasman for leadership of the party ahead of the 2009 General Election. Before the court case was finalised, Uys announced that he had joined the Congress of the People. Williams is now listed as the national leader on the party's website.\n\nThe National Party campaign is based on the following policies:\n\nAlthough the party was on the ballot for the Western Cape Provincial Parliament in the 2009 poll, they only attracted 3 378 votes and failed to secure a seat. They nominated several candidates registered for the 2011 local government elections, one of whom, Bonita Elvira Hufkie, was listed on her ward ballot for both the National Party and the Pan Africanist Congress. The NP failed to win any wards, but obtained one council seat through the proportional representation vote, which will be filled by Achmat Williams, who topped the party's PR candidate list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12037095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12037095", "title": "National electronic Library for Health", "text": "National electronic Library for Health\n\nThe National electronic Library for Health (NeLH) was a digital library service provided by the NHS for healthcare professionals and the public between 1998 and 2006. It briefly became the National Library for Health and elements of it continue to this day as NHS Evidence, managed by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, and a range of services provided by Health Education England's Library and Knowledge Service Leads.\n\nLooking back from the mid 1990s the NHS Library Adviser Margaret Haines observed that during the 1980s NHS libraries had failed to capitalise on opportunities becoming available to them to advance their services and demonstrate their value. The main issues she saw were 'duplication and lack of co-ordination' arising from complex funding and a lack of integration with host organisations. Her concerns echoed those voiced by other senior NHS librarians. Judy Palmer, head librarian for the Oxfordshire region found that 'libraries were becoming increasingly marginalised, librarians were facing competition from other providers, that there were no recognisable national strategies, that there was massive duplication, fragmentation and information hoarding' In response to such concerns the British Library organised a seminar on NHS libraries, which came to be known as the Cumberlege Seminar. This was followed a year later by a second seminar held at the Kings Fund in London. As a result, the role of NHS Library Adviser was established (Margaret Haines being the first incumbent, followed by Veronica Fraser). A Health Service Guideline on NHS libraries was published in 1997, and a number of local initiatives took place, among them the establishment of an innovative project in Oxford to increase the use of the World Wide Web in NHS libraries. The idea of an open access digital library of high quality health related information was suggested by JA Muir Gray to Frank Burns CBE, at the time Chief Executive of Wirral NHS Trust Warrington and leading the development of Information for Health, an IT strategy for the NHS 1998-2005. The strategy stated:\n\n\"A National Electronic Library for Health including accredited clinical reference material will be established.\"\n\nImplementation of the NeLH began in October 1998. Robert Ward, a senior civil servant at the Department of Health, convened a meeting of interested parties in Leeds. Following from that meeting an implementation plan was developed by Ben Toth and Muir Gray and signed off by the Department of Health. A programme board was established; members included the NHS Library Adviser Veronica Fraser, a senior regional IMT Adviser Jeremy Thorp, and Bob Gann who was leading the development of NHS Direct online. The NeLH programme was included in the first portfolio of the NHS Information Authority; work began on implementation in January 1999, with the appointment of a project manager, Peter Bladen, and a project assistant Carol Shanley, based in the NHSIA's temporary offices in Calthorpe Road, Birmingham. The NeLH office later transferred to Aqueous II, Birmingham. Implementation began with the development of a business case and a pilot service to test the concept of the NeLH and provide evidence for the business case.\n\nThe Pilot NeLH was launched in November 2000, based around a central website (the core collection already in development via the then NHS Regional Librarians Group) with links to commissioned websites (specialist resources). Resources included a selection of evidence-based resources, some of which were restricted to (Cochrane Library and Clinical Evidence) NHSnet users only, a limitation which would be rectified in later years, and several Specialist (or Virtual Branch) Libraries covering primary care, infectious diseases, and emergency medicine, managed by Anne Brice. Over time the number of services increased, including a specialist medicines library and a federated search engine. Core staff numbered around 6 (later growing to over 30) in the early days of the library, including recruits and secondees from NHS libraries. An early goal was the establishment of a network of librarians across the NHS to promote the library, led by Alison Turner. Nick Rosen joined the team to promote the library, and Ian McKinnell joined later as technical lead.\n\nThe pilot website was run from NHSIA servers, first in Bury St Edmunds and later in Exeter. The business case was developed by staff seconded to the NHSIA from the Department of Health and HM Treasury and went on to be commended by the Blair Government's Public Sector Productivity Panel as a notable use of the Treasury 5 Case model. The business case also became the subject of a chapter in \"Making Sense of Public Sector Investments\". Following approval of the Full Business Case, procurement began, with the full service live in 2003.\n\nAs part of its response to the Report of the Public Inquiry into children's heart surgery at the Bristol Royal Infirmary the Department of Health established the National Knowledge Service in 2003, tasking it with closer integration of digital and physical library services. A programme to establish a National Library for Health was established, which included a review from TFPL, a cost analysis by Robert Huggins Associates, and steps towards several NHS wide shared services, including: a business case for a unified NHS document delivery service developed by Bertha Man Low and colleagues; a question answering service; an NHS resolver and underlying enterprise architecture. With the demise of the NHSIA in 2005 the NeLH transferred its staff and operations to Connecting for Health, the body responsible for implementing the NHS National Programme for IT. The operational base remained in Birmingham but increasingly staff worked in the CFH main office in Leeds and also in London, first in Victoria and later at the CFH office in BMA House and a Department of Health office in Sea Containers House overlooking the River Thames. In 2008, with the National Programme for IT in decline, arrangements began to transfer the NeLH to NICE, where aspects of its service continues to operate, as NHS Evidence and with a range of electronic books, databases and electronic journals for use by NHS and other eligible staff procured by the HEE LKS Leads group.\n\nThe record of the NeLH shows a mixture of success, failure, and worthy experiment.\n\nSuccesses include: the business case was recognized by HM Treasury as a model of its kind; the project was delivered to time and budget and became a valued service; funding was obtained to make the Cochrane Library available across the UK on a simple open basis; extra funding for Clinical Evidence was secured from the Modernisation Fund; a care pathways database was introduced; obstacles were overcome to make the Athens Access Management System available to the NHS as part of the NLH enterprise architecture; Health Language, a terminology service, was procured as a framework contract; the Children's BNF was introduced, funded by the Department of Health; Hitting the Headlines and Zetoc were procured; the fee paid by the NHS to the Copyright Licensing Agency was halved; co-operation with JISC increased; the PRODIGY programme was cancelled and replaced by Clinical Knowledge Summaries. Funding was found to support for the regional pharmacy information services; an online directory of library service points was funded; an NHS link resolver was implemented.\n\nAmong the failures: a z39.50 federated search supplied by Fretwell Downing could not be made to work; attempts to base the CLA licence on actual usage foundered; work with JISC to reduce double-dipping by academic publishers across HE-NHS made little progress; reform of the NHS libraries regional structure was only partly successful and the vision of a unified networked library for the NHS didn't survive; integration with CFH products and services was less than anticipated; a strategic partnership with Map of Medicine fell foul of the CFH commercial directorate; a planned partnership with ISABEL didn't survive the CFH procurement process. Plans to implement an NHS wide deal with Biomed Central were initiated but didn't progress. Perhaps the key failures were not to embed the vision of NLH in the hearts and minds of senior stakeholders and those it was intended to serve, and to pay too little attention to sustainability.\n\nExperiments included: a pilot of LibQual; the development of an XML standard for representing clinical guidelines; a DSpace implementation hosted by Hewlett Packard Laboratories; an RSS feed manager developed by Microsoft as part of its NHS Common User Interface project; and a browser based calendar and communication tool known as MyWorkPlace - a great idea but technically ahead of the technology available to the NHS at the time.\n\nSeventeen years on from its conception many of the services offered by NeLH is still in place, albeit under the auspices of two different organisations: NICE for access to core digital content and Health Education England Library and Knowledge Service Leads for funding that content, undertaking overarching strategic development of healthcare library and knowledge services (LKS) as a business asset, and for developing the LKS workforce. Some elements of the NeLH infrastructure are still visible, notably OpenAthens, and the single-search engine (Healthcare Databases Advanced Search (HDAS)). The vision of a unified, seamless NHS library service for all staff and service users is now championed by Health Education England's Knowledge for Healthcare: a development framework for NHS Library and Knowledge Services in England. Acknowledging that many issues remain including: complexity of funding (with associated uncertainty of service offer, duplication, and inefficiency); and a lack of integration across the wider NHS and social care systems, local NHS library and knowledge services continue to offer a range of vital services and resources, underpinning decision making from the boardroom to bedside.\n\nIn 2016 Health Education England published a policy statement on library and knowledge services which replaces the 1997 Health Service Guideline on Library Services HSG(97)47. The policy reminds us that: \n\n\"The Secretary of State for Health has a duty, under the \"Health and Social Care Act 2012\", to ensure “the use in the health service of evidence obtained from research”.\n\nHEE commits to:\n\n· Enabling all NHS workforce members to freely access library and knowledge services so that they can use the right knowledge and evidence to achieve excellent healthcare and health improvement. \n\n· Developing NHS librarians and knowledge specialists to use their expertise to mobilise evidence obtained from research and organisational knowledge to underpin decision-making in the National Health Service in England. \n\n· Developing NHS library and knowledge services into a coherent national service that is proactive and focussed on the knowledge needs of the NHS and its workforce. \n\nSo key parts of the NeLH and NLH legacy continues into the 21 century.\n"}
{"id": "847835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=847835", "title": "National library", "text": "National library\n\nA national library is a library established by a government as a country's preeminent repository of information. Unlike public libraries, these rarely allow citizens to borrow books. Often, they include numerous rare, valuable, or significant works. A National Library is that library which has the duty of collecting and preserving the literature of the nation within and outside the country. Thus, National Libraries are those libraries whose community is the nation at large. Examples include the British Library, and the Bibliothèque nationale de France in Paris.\n\nThere are wider definitions of a national library, putting less emphasis to the repository character.\n\nNational libraries are usually notable for their size, compared to that of other libraries in the same country. Some states which are not independent, but who wish to preserve their particular culture, have established a national library with all the attributes of such institutions, such as legal deposit.\n\nMany national libraries cooperate within the National Libraries Section of the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) to discuss their common tasks, define and promote common standards and carry out projects helping them to fulfill their duties. National libraries of Europe participate in The European Library. This is a service of The Conference of European National Librarians (CENL).\n\nThe first national libraries had their origins in the royal collections of the sovereign or some other supreme body of the state.\n\nOne of the first plans for a national library was devised by the English mathematician John Dee, who in 1556 presented Mary I of England with a visionary plan for the preservation of old books, manuscripts and records and the founding of a national library, but his proposal was not taken up.\n\nIn England, Sir Richard Bentley's \"Proposal for Building a Royal Library\" published in 1694 stimulated renewed interest in the subject. Sir Robert Cotton, 1st Baronet, of Connington, a wealthy antiquarian, amassed the richest private collection of manuscripts in the world at the time and founded the Cotton Library. After the Dissolution of the Monasteries, many priceless and ancient manuscripts that had belonged to the monastic libraries began to be disseminated among various owners, many of whom were unaware of the cultural value of the manuscripts. Sir Robert's genius was in finding, purchasing and preserving these ancient documents. After his death his grandson donated the library to the nation as its first national library. This transfer established the formation of the British Library.\n\nThe first true national library was founded in 1753 as part of the British Museum.\nThis new institution was the first of a new kind of museum – national, belonging to neither church nor king, freely open to the public and aiming to collect everything. The museum's foundations lay in the will of the physician and naturalist Sir Hans Sloane, who gathered an enviable collection of curiosities over his lifetime which he bequeathed to the nation for £20,000.\n\nSloane's collection included some 40,000 printed books and 7,000 manuscripts, as well as prints and drawings. The British Museum Act 1753 also incorporated the Cotton library and the Harleian library. These were joined in 1757 by the Royal Library, assembled by various British monarchs.\n\nThe first exhibition galleries and reading room for scholars opened on 15 January 1759, and in 1757, King George II granted it the right to a copy of every book published in the country, thereby ensuring that the Museum's library would expand indefinitely.\nAnthony Panizzi became the Principal Librarian at the British Museum in 1856, where he oversaw its modernization. During his tenure, the Library's holdings increased from 235,000 to 540,000 volumes, making it the largest library in the world at the time. Its famous circular Reading Room was opened in 1857. Panizzi undertook the creation of a new catalogue, based on the \"Ninety-One Cataloguing Rules\" (1841) which he devised with his assistants. These rules served as the basis for all subsequent catalogue rules of the 19th and 20th centuries, and are at the origins of the ISBD and of digital cataloguing elements such as Dublin Core.\n\nIn France, the first national library was the Bibliothèque Mazarine, which evolved from its origin as a royal library founded at the Louvre Palace by Charles V in 1368. At the death of Charles VI, this first collection was unilaterally bought by the English regent of France, the Duke of Bedford, who transferred it to England in 1424. It was apparently dispersed at his death in 1435. The invention of printing resulted in the starting of another collection in the Louvre inherited by Louis XI in 1461. Francis I transferred the collection in 1534 to Fontainebleau and merged it with his private library.\nThe appointment of Jacques Auguste de Thou as librarian in the 17th century, initiated a period of development that made it the largest and richest collection of books in the world. The library opened to the public in 1692, under the administration of Abbé Louvois, Minister Louvois's son. Abbé Louvois was succeeded by the Abbé Bignon, or Bignon II as he was termed, who instituted a complete reform of the library's system. Catalogues were made which appeared from 1739–53 in 11 volumes. The collections increased steadily by purchase and gift to the outbreak of the French Revolution, at which time it was in grave danger of partial or total destruction, but owing to the activities of Antoine-Augustin Renouard and Joseph Van Praet it suffered no injury.\n\nThe library's collections swelled to over 300,000 volumes during the radical phase of the French Revolution when the private libraries of aristocrats and clergy were seized. After the establishment of the French First Republic in September 1792, \"the Assembly declared the \"Bibliotheque du Roi\" to be national property and the institution was renamed the \"Bibliothèque Nationale\". After four centuries of control by the Crown, this great library now became the property of the French people.\"\n\nIn the newly formed American republic, James Madison first proposed instituting a congressional library in 1783. The Library of Congress was established on April 24, 1800, when president John Adams signed an act of Congress providing for the transfer of the seat of government from Philadelphia to the new capital city of Washington. Part of the legislation appropriated $5,000 \"for the purchase of such books as may be necessary for the use of Congress ... and for fitting up a suitable apartment for containing them.\" Books were ordered from London and the collection, consisting of 740 books and 3 maps, was housed in the new Capitol.\nThe Imperial Public Library was established in 1795 by Catherine the Great, whose private collections included the domestic libraries of Voltaire and Diderot, which she had purchased from their heirs. Voltaire's personal library is still one of the highlights of the collection. The plan of a Russian public library was submitted to Catherine in 1766 but the Empress did not approve the project for the imperial library until , eighteen months before her death.\nThe cornerstone of the foreign-language department came from the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth in the form of Załuski's Library (420,000 volumes), nationalized by the Russian government at the time of the partitions. The Polish-language books from the library (numbering some 55,000 titles) were returned to Poland by the Russian SFSR in 1921.\n\nAlthough Germany was only constituted as a state in 1871, the first national library was set up in the context of the German revolutions of 1848. Various booksellers and publishers offered their works to the Frankfurt Parliament for a parliamentary library. The library, led by Johann Heinrich Plath, was termed the \"Reichsbibliothek\" (\"Reich library\"). After the failure of the revolution the library was abandoned and the stock of books already in existence was stored at the Germanisches Nationalmuseum in Nuremberg. In 1912, the town of Leipzig, seat of the annual Leipzig Book Fair, the Kingdom of Saxony and the Börsenverein der Deutschen Buchhändler (Association of German booksellers) agreed to found a German National Library in Leipzig. Starting January 1, 1913, all publications in German were systematically collected (including books from Austria and Switzerland).\n\nThe principle of legal deposit applies in some countries.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Legal Deposit Libraries Act 2003 restates the \"Copyright Act 1911\", that one copy of every book published there must be sent to the national library (the British Library); five other libraries (the Bodleian Library at Oxford University, the Cambridge University Library, the National Library of Scotland, the Trinity College Library, Dublin, and the National Library of Wales) are entitled to request a free copy within one year of publication. The international nature of the book publishing industry ensures that all significant English language publications from elsewhere in the world are also included.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, the \"Copyright and Related Rights Act 2000\" specifies that one copy of every book published is to be delivered to the National Library of Ireland, the Trinity College Library, Dublin, the library of the University of Limerick, the library of Dublin City University, and the British Library. Four copies are to be delivered to the National University of Ireland for distribution to its constituent universities. Further, on demand in writing within twelve months of publication a copy is to be delivered to the Bodleian Library, Cambridge University Library, the National Library of Scotland, and the National Library of Wales.\n\nIn Australia, the \"Copyright Act 1968\" and other state Acts requires that a copy of every book published in Australia be deposited with the National Library of Australia, the relevant State Library for the state in which the book was published, and some states other libraries such as Parliamentary and university libraries.\n\nA similar system also exists in Canada with respect to its national library, known as Library and Archives Canada.\n\nSince 1537, all works published in France must be deposited with the Bibliothèque nationale de France. Since 1997, it has also received deposits of digital works.\n\nSince 1661, the Swedish Royal Library has been entitled to a copy of all works published in Sweden.\n\nIn Singapore, the \"National Library Board Act\" requires all publishers in Singapore to deposit two copies of every publication to the National Library Board at their own expense within four weeks from the publication date.\n\nOther countries, like the United States, do not follow this requirement. The United States does, however, require that any publisher submit two copies of a copyrightable work to United States Copyright Office at the Library of Congress – this is known as \"mandatory deposit\" – but the Library is selective about which works it retains. The international nature of the book publishing industry ensures that all significant English language publications from elsewhere in the world are also included. It also has the Federal depository libraries, which must receive a copy of all of the publications of the Government Printing Office.\n\nIn addition to having a law requiring publishers to deposit books, those countries with legal deposits usually have many other incentives for a proper and speedy deposit, such as a tie-in with laws affecting copyright of the same documents, and/or a cataloguing- in- publication service.\n\nApproximately three million new English-language books are retained by the British Library and Library of Congress each year.\n\nOne of the main goals of a national library is fulfilling their nation's part of the common international goal of universal bibliographic control, by ensuring the bibliographic control of all the books or book-like documents published in that particular country or talking about that particular country, in any way.\n\nThe first part of the goal is usually achieved through the means of legal deposit laws or (as is the case of the United States) by a host of different programs such as a cataloguing in publication service. By this service, the Library of Congress gives a complete catalogue entry of a book to any publisher who sends a final draft or some form of galley proof of a book currently in production. Other national libraries offer similar services or enforce mandatory practices similar to this.\n\nThe second part of the goal is achieved by thorough acquisition programs and collection development policies which target book markets in other nations, and which foster international agreements with other countries with national libraries who have national bibliographic control as one of their goals. Exchange and access protocols are defined permitting these countries to read each other's catalogues, and to standardize catalogue entries, thus making it easier for each national library to become aware of every possible published document which might concern their country.\n\nAnother one of the main goals of many a national library is the \"export aspect\" and the collaborative sides of the universal bibliographic control of all the books in the world. This is done by the exchanges and accords mentioned in the previous section, and also by fostering the creation of standard conceptual tools such as library classification systems and cataloguing rules. The most commonly used of these tools is the International Standard Bibliographic Description or ISBD, which has served as a basis for national and international cataloguing codes, such as AACR2.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5606735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5606735", "title": "Office of the Commissioner of Official Languages", "text": "Office of the Commissioner of Official Languages\n\nThe Office of the Commissioner of Official Languages of the Canadian government is responsible for achieving the objectives of, and promoting, Canada's Official Languages Act. Canada has two official languages: English and French.\n\nThe 1988 Official Languages Act mandates this office and its commissioner, who holds office for seven years. Its mission has three main objectives: ensuring the equality of English and French within the Government of Canada and institutions subject to the Act; preserving and developing official language communities; and ensuring the equality of English and French in Canadian society at large.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2006, the commissioner was Dr. Dyane Adam, who was born in Casselman, Ontario, and holds a doctorate in clinical psychology from the University of Ottawa. After the federal election of January 2006, Prime Minister Stephen Harper requested that Dr. Adam prolong her term by a few months to give him time to find a suitable replacement. On September 13, 2006, he nominated Graham Fraser for the post.\n\nIn November 2017, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau nominated Raymond Théberge, the President and Vice-Chancellor of Université de Moncton, as the commissioner replacing Fraser. The nomination was approved in December 2017, and Théberge is the first Commissioner from Western Canada and from outside Ontario and Quebec.\n\n\nIn 2009, Commissionner Graham Fraser created the Award of Excellence – Promotion of Linguistic Duality. The prise is given annually by the Office of the Commissioner of Official Languages to an individual or organization in Canada that is not subject to the federal \"Official Languages Act\" but that makes a difference by promoting linguistic duality in Canada or abroad, or by contributing to the development of official language minority communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "6199435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6199435", "title": "Operation Black Sea Harmony", "text": "Operation Black Sea Harmony\n\nBlack Sea Harmony is a naval operation initiated by Turkey in March 2004 in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions 1373, 1540 and 1566 aimed at deterring terrorism and asymmetric threats in the Black Sea. It is similar to the NATO-led Operation Active Endeavour in the Mediterranean, and also aims at ensuring the security of the Turkish Straits.\n\nAlthough it was originally a national operation, Black Sea Harmony has become multinational with the participation of other Black Sea littoral states. Turkey extended invitations to each littoral state to join Black Sea Harmony.\n\nThe operation originally was conducted in Turkey's territorial waters and in open waters in the Black Sea. In order to deter possible risks and threats in the maritime area, the Turkish Navy conducted periodic surveillance and reconnaissance operations across the whole of the Black Sea. Statistics concerning suspect ships were collected and shared with NATO and other littoral nations. In case of hailing of a suspect ship, voluntary boarding (depending on the captain's will) is conducted. \n\nPermanent headquarters of Operation Black Sea Harmony is located in Eregli, on Turkey's Black Sea coast. Once the Operation became multinational, other littoral States were able to send Liaison Officers to Eregli.\n\nIn 2006 Russia officially joined the Black Sea Harmony initiative to address new security challenges in region. A protocol on information exchange regarding Ukraine's participation was signed in Ankara on 17 January 2007.\n\n\nTurkish Naval Forces\n"}
{"id": "43517658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43517658", "title": "Passport validity", "text": "Passport validity\n\nPassport validity is the length of time a passport can be used to travel to another country, or be used as a valid form of identification within or outside the issuing country before its date of expiration.\n\nThere is an increasing trend for adult passports to be valid for ten years, such as a United Kingdom passport, United States Passport, New Zealand Passport (after 30 November 2015) or Australian passport. A five year period of validity is also common (as used to be the situation for a Papua New Guinean passport or currently for an Indonesian passport. Some countries issue adult passports for periods between five and ten years, such as the Cuban passport, which is valid for six years.\n\nSome countries allow adult applicants to choose a passport validity, usually 5 or 10 years. For an example Canada, Hungary, Japan, Mexico , Pakistan, Russia or South Korea.\n\nMost countries issue passports for children and young adults for five years, under passport issuing protocols a child or young adult passport is defined as being under 16 years for a United States Passport, under 19 years for a Japanese Passport, under 21 years for a Croatian passport, under 24 years for a German passport or under 30 years as is the case with a Spanish passport.\n\nBecause children change rapidly in appearance from infancy to age five, some countries issue infant passports for two years, such as the Austrian passport, or for one year in the case of the Republic of Korea passport.\n\nSome countries issue passports with longer validity period to their senior citizens, for example Spanish passports issued to citizens over 70 never expire.\n\nMany countries require passports to be valid for no less than six months upon arrival.\n\nCountries requiring passport validity of at least 6 months on arrival include Afghanistan, Algeria, Bhutan, Botswana, Brunei, Cambodia, Canada, Comoros, Côte d'Ivoire, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Fiji, Guyana, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq (except when arriving at Basra - 3 months and Erbil or Sulaimaniyah - on arrival), Israel, Kenya, Laos, Madagascar, Malaysia, Marshall Islands, Mexico, Myanmar, Namibia, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Taiwan, Tanzania, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Tonga, Tuvalu, Uganda, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vietnam, countries requiring passport validity of at least 4 months on arrival include Micronesia, Zambia, countries requiring passport validity of at least 3 months on arrival include Schengen Area countries, Georgia, Honduras, Iceland, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Moldova, Nauru, Panama, United Arab Emirates and countries requiring passport validity of at least 1 month on arrival include Eritrea, Hong Kong, Macao, New Zealand, South Africa. Other countries require either a passport valid on arrival or passport valid throughout the period of intended stay.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "39794151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39794151", "title": "Pearson Centre", "text": "Pearson Centre\n\nEstablished in 1994 by the Government of Canada as the Lester B. Pearson Canadian International Peacekeeping Training Centre (more commonly the Pearson Peacekeeping Centre, or simply the Pearson Centre) was an independent, not-for-profit organization with its office based in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. Its mandate was to support Canada's contribution to international peace and security. Operations ceased and the Centre closed on November 28, 2013.\n\nThe Pearson Centre conducted education, training and research on all aspects of peace operations throughout the world, with the majority of its projects under way in Africa and Latin America. Services ranged from the training of police officers in Rwanda and Nigeria to serve as peacekeepers in Darfur; through delivery of pre-deployment training for Latin American peace keepers in Brasília; to the design and delivery of complex training exercises for use in Europe and Africa.\n\nIt also raised revenue through its specialized training and management courses, which it ran for individuals, governments and organizations around the world.\n\nWhile in operation, the Pearson Centre worked with the Kofi Annan International Peacekeeping Training Centre in Ghana. The Centre provideed facilitation support to the International Network to Promote the Rule of Law, which is a project of the USIP. The International Association of Peacekeeping Training Centres was founded on July 2, 1995, at the Pearson Peacekeeping Centre. The Pearson Centre also worked closely with the Canadian extractive sector to implement the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and provide training strategies to ensure that their security providers adhere to these international standards.\n\nThe Lester B. Pearson Canadian International Peacekeeping Training Centre was created as an offshoot of the now-defunct Canadian Institute of Strategic Studies and became an independent organisation in its own right in 2001. Named in honour of Lester Bowles Pearson, the former Prime Minister of Canada and recipient of the 1957 Nobel Peace Prize for his role in the inception of peacekeeping, the Centre was established initially to train Canadian and foreign soldiers in the art of peacekeeping and conflict resolution for postings with United Nations Peacekeeping missions.\n\nAlex Morrison was the first president of the Pearson Peacekeeping Centre, which was established in 1994 by the Government of Canada. He was followed by Sandra Dunsmore, and later Suzanne Monaghan. In 2012, the presidency of the Centre was assumed by Kevin McGarr, previously head of CATSA.\n\nIn 1994, Jean-Jacques Blais was appointed chair of the centre, holding that position until he retired in 2002. Chairs have included several notable Canadians.\n\nThe centre was established at Cornwallis Park, in southern Nova Scotia, using facilities made available by the closure of CFB Cornwallis. Offices were later opened in Montréal, Ottawa and Halifax. Headquarters of the Centre were moved to the Ottawa office in 2008 while most of the operations remained in Cornwallis Park. The Montréal office was closed in 2008 and Halifax wound down by 2010.\n\nAs financial support to the centre was progressively withdrawn by the Federal government, operations were reduced and transferred to the Ottawa office. The Centre's Cornwallis park facilities formally closed in 2011. On September 26, 2013, the Pearson Centre announced it would be winding down its operations and closing its doors.\n\nThe name was formally changed to the \"Pearson Centre\" in 2012. Operations ceased with the final closure of the office November 28, 2013.\n\nWilliam Alexander Morrison, MSC, CD, (1941– ) was born in Sydney, Nova Scotia, he is a graduate of Xavier Junior College and a historian. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1968 from Mount Allison University. He joined the Canadian Forces in 1959 and retired as a lieutenant colonel in 1990. From 1980 to 1982, he was an instructor at the Royal Military College of Canada where he taught an undergraduate course in Canadian Military History. He was awarded his MSC in 1989. He was the 2002 recipient of the Pearson Medal of Peace, which is awarded for an individual's \"contribution to international service.\"\n\nFrom 1983 to 1989, Morrison was the military advisor to the Canadian permanent representative to the UN. He was vice-chairman of UN Peacekeeping Committee. From 1989 to 1997, he was the executive director of the Canadian Institute of Strategic Studies; and in 1994, he became the founding president of the Pearson Centre.\n\nPhilip Murray was chairman and Kevin McGarr president at the time of the centre's closure in 2013.\n\nThe Pearson Papers were a Canadian peacekeeping press publications compiled by the Pearson Peacekeeping Centre for over 15 years. They were:\n\n\nAs of 2013 the papers are no longer published.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "209438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209438", "title": "Power behind the throne", "text": "Power behind the throne\n\nThe phrase \"power behind the throne\" refers to a person or group that informally exercises the real power of a high-ranking office, such as a head of state. In politics, it most commonly refers to a relative, aide, or nominal subordinate of a political leader (often called a \"figurehead\") who serves as \"de facto\" leader, setting policy through possessing great influence and/or skillful manipulation.\n\nThe original concept of a power behind the throne was a Medieval-era figure of speech referring to the fact that the monarch's policies could be set by a counselor not seated in the throne but standing behind it—perhaps whispering in the monarch's ear—out of common sight. Among the earliest examples of such powerful advisors were the Mayors of the Palace under the Merovingian kings.\n\nHistorical examples of a \"power behind the throne\" include: Nogai Khan, Mamai and Edigu in the Golden Horde; Diego Portales of Chile; Chancellor of Germany and Minister President of Prussia Otto von Bismarck, with German Emperor and King of Prussia William I as a de facto figurehead; Martin Bormann of Nazi Germany. The Genrō had this role in Meiji period of Japan. Another example is the rule of Pol Pot in Cambodia from 1975–78, who led the Khmer Rouge to victory following a devastating civil war. King Norodom Sihanouk returned to reign over Cambodia, but held no executive power. \n\nIn the United States, Edith Wilson—second wife of President Woodrow Wilson—took over many of the routine duties and details of the government after her husband was incapacitated by a stroke. Another modern example was Deng Xiaoping in China, who was recognized as China's paramount leader without holding the position of either General Secretary, head of state or head of government.\n\nEarlier examples include the \"magistri militum\" of the later decades of the Western Roman Empire. Examples of such are Stilicho the general of Emperor Honorius, Aetius, the power behind the throne of Honorius' nephew Valentinian III, Ricimer the puppet master of Emperors Avitus, Majorian, Libius Severus, Procopius Anthemius and Olybrius, and then finally Flavius Orestes, the father of the usurper emperor Romulus Augustulus, and the Germanic chieftain Odoacer, who were the masters in the West during the reigns of Emperor Julius Nepos and then Orestes' son, the aforementioned Romulus. Odoacer then deposed the figurehead Roman ruler, captured and executed Orestes, and established his own Italian kingdom as the \"Dux Italiae\", only to be overthrown by the Ostrogothic chieftain Theodoric on the behest of the Eastern Emperor Zeno.\n\nIn Latin America, an example was Joseph-Marie Córdoba Montoya during the Presidency of Carlos Salinas de Gortari (1988–1994). Córdoba Montoya, a French naturalized Mexican, was the Head of the Office of the Presidency, and was considered the second-most powerful man in Mexico at the time. Another example in the same region is the one of the former general Manuel Noriega, who was the military leader and the \"de facto\" chief of state of Panama from 1983 to 1989.\n\nNotable Middle Eastern examples include the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, Muhammad bin Salman who effectively rules the country for his -year old father King Salman. In Qatar, Hamad bin Jassim bin Jaber Al Thani was often called the power behind the throne of Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani.\n\nA related term is \"éminence grise\" (French: \"gray eminence\"), a powerful advisor or decision-maker who operates secretly or otherwise unofficially. This phrase originally referred to Cardinal de Richelieu's right-hand man, François Leclerc du Tremblay (also known as the \"Père Joseph\"), a Capuchin friar who wore grey robes. Because the Cardinal de Richelieu, the power behind the throne of King Louis XIII of France, as a Catholic cardinal was styled \"Son Eminence\" (\"His Eminence\"), his alter ego Père Joseph was called \"l'éminence grise\" (which is also the English title of his biography by Aldous Huxley). Martin Bormann was referred to as the Brown Eminence, brown referring to the brown uniform of the Nazi Party.\n\nThe modern usage of the term Proconsul, as analogy for a person from a foreign power manipulating another country's internal affairs, is also referred as the \"power behind the throne\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2033707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2033707", "title": "Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea", "text": "Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea\n\nThe Korean Provisional Government (KPG), formally the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea was a partially recognized Korean government-in-exile, based in Shanghai, China, and later in Chungking, during the Japanese colonial rule of Korea.\n\nOn April 11, 1919, the provisional constitution was enacted, and the national sovereignty was called \"Republic of Korea\" and the political system was called \"Democratic Republic\". Introduced the presidential system and established three separate systems of legislative, administrative and judicial separation, the KPG inherited the territory of the former Korean Empire and stated that he favored the former imperial court. It actively supported and supported the independence movement under the provisional government, and received economic and military support from the Kuomintang of China, the Soviet Union and France.\n\nAfter the Surrender of Japan on August 15, 1945, figures such as Kim Gu returned. On August 15, 1948, the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea was dissolved. Rhee, who was the first president of the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea, became the first President of the Republic of Korea in 1948. The Constitution of South Korea, which was amended in 1987, stated that the Korean people inherited the rule of the KPG.\n\nThe government was formed on April 13, 1919, shortly after the March 1st movement of the same year during the Imperial Japanese colonial rule of the Korean peninsula. Key members in its establishment included An Changho and Syngman Rhee, both of which were leaders of the Korean National Association at that time. An Changho played an important part in making Shanghai the center of the liberation movement and in getting KPG operations underway. As acting premier, he would help reorganize the government from a parliamentary cabinet system to a presidential system.\n\nThe government resisted the colonial rule of Korea that lasted from 1910 to 1945. They coordinated the armed resistance against the Japanese imperial army during the 1920s and 1930s, including the Battle of Chingshanli in October 1920 and the assault on Japanese military leadership in Shanghai's Hongkou Park in April 1932.\n\nThis struggle culminated in the formation of Korean Liberation Army in 1940, bringing together many if not all Korean resistance groups in exile. The government duly declared war against the Axis powers Japan and Germany on December 9, 1941, and the Liberation Army took part in allied action in China and parts of Southeast Asia.\n\nDuring World War II, the Korean Liberation Army was preparing an assault against the Imperial Japanese forces in Korea in conjunction with American Office of Strategic Services, but the Japanese surrender prevented the execution of the plan. The government's goal was achieved with Japanese surrender on September 2, 1945, but they were not approved by other governments as a member of allied nations, who signed peace treaty with Japan in San Francisco.\n\nThe sites of the Provisional Government in Shanghai and Chongqing (Chungking) have been preserved as museums.\n\nIn 1919, when U.S. President Woodrow Wilson ruled for national self-determination, Rhee Syng-man promoted the League of Nations mandate in the United States, and Kim Kyu-sik pushed for independence under the approval of a victorious country in Paris. The provisional government gained approval from China and Poland through diplomatic efforts. Meanwhile, in 1944, the government received approval from the Soviet Union. Jo So-ang, the head of diplomatic department of provisional government, met with the French ambassador in Chongqing and was quoted as saying that French government would give unofficial and substantively approve the government in April 1945. However, The government did not gain formal recognition from United States, United Kingdom and other world powers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42369231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42369231", "title": "Qurultay of the Crimean Tatar People", "text": "Qurultay of the Crimean Tatar People\n\nQurultay of the Crimean Tatar People is a national congress and the highest representing plenipotentiary body of the Crimean Tatar people. At Qurultay the Crimean Tatar people are represented by delegates elected by Crimean Tatars and members of their family regardless of their nationality permanently residing on the territory of Ukraine as well as those Crimean Tatars and members of their family who are citizens of Ukraine regardless of their place of residence.\n\nThe term of composition credentials of Qurultay is five years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "377886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377886", "title": "Sandi Toksvig", "text": "Sandi Toksvig\n\nSandra Birgitte Toksvig, (, ; born 3 May 1958) is a British-Danish comedian, writer, actor, presenter and producer on British radio and television, and political activist.\n\nOn 21 October 2016, Toksvig took over from Stephen Fry as host of the BBC television quiz show \"QI\". She was the host of \"The News Quiz\" on BBC Radio 4 from 2006 until June 2015. She also presented the quiz show \"1001 Things You Should Know\" on Channel 4 television in 2012–13, and began hosting a revived series of the same channel's game show \"Fifteen to One\" on 5 April 2014.\n\nShe is joint founder of the Women's Equality Party (established in March 2015), was installed as Chancellor of the University of Portsmouth in October 2012, and is the current president of the Women of the Year Lunch.\n\nOn 16 March 2017, Toksvig was announced as the new co-presenter of \"The Great British Bake Off\", alongside comedian Noel Fielding.\n\nToksvig was born in Denmark. Her father, Claus Toksvig, was a Danish journalist, broadcaster, and foreign correspondent, so Toksvig spent most of her youth outside Denmark, mostly in New York City. Her mother, Julie Anne Toksvig (\"née\" Brett), is British. She attended Tormead School, an independent girls' school near Guildford, when her father was based in London. Her first job was a position as a follow spot operator for the musical \"Jesus Christ Superstar\" at the age of 18.\n\nShe read law, archaeology and anthropology at Girton College, Cambridge, graduating with a first-class degree and receiving two prizes for outstanding achievement (The Raemakers and the Theresa Montefiore Awards). One of her law supervisors was Lord Denning.\n\nToksvig began her comedy career at Girton College, Cambridge University, where she wrote and performed in the first all-woman show at the Footlights. She was there at the same time as fellow members Stephen Fry, Hugh Laurie, Tony Slattery, and Emma Thompson, and wrote additional material for the Perrier award-winning Footlights Revue. She was also a member of the university's Light Entertainment Society.\n\nShe started her television career on children's series, presenting \"No. 73\" (1982–1986), the \"Sandwich Quiz\", \"The Saturday Starship\", \"Motormouth\", \"Gilbert's Fridge\", and on factual programmes such as \"Island Race\" and \"The Talking Show\", produced by Open Media for Channel 4.\n\nIn October 2012, in the wake of allegations about the behaviour of Jimmy Savile, and claims that during the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s, there was a culture within the BBC which tolerated sexual harassment, she says she was groped by a \"famous individual\" on air in the 1980s. Toksvig said the allegations of inappropriate behaviour at the BBC \"did not surprise me at all\".\n\nIn the comedy circuit, Toksvig performed at the first night of the Comedy Store in London, and was once part of their Players, an improvisational comedy team.\n\nIn television, she appeared as a panellist in comedy shows such as \"Call My Bluff\" (a regular as a team captain), \"Whose Line Is It Anyway?\", \"Mock the Week\", \"QI\", and \"Have I Got News for You\", where she appeared on the very first episode in 1990. She was also the host of \"What the Dickens\", a Sky Arts quiz show.\n\nOn radio, she is a familiar voice for BBC Radio 4 listeners, having appeared on \"I'm Sorry I Haven't a Clue\", \"The Unbelievable Truth\", and as the chair of \"The News Quiz\", where she replaced Simon Hoggart in September 2006, but left in June 2015 in order to enter politics to champion women's rights. Her final show was first broadcast on 26 June. She presented Radio 4's travel programme \"Excess Baggage\" until it was axed in 2012.\nIn 1993, Toksvig wrote a musical, \"Big Night Out at the Little Sands Picture Palace\", for Nottingham Playhouse, co-starring with Anita Dobson and Una Stubbs. In 2002, it was re-written, with Dilly Keane, for the Watford Palace Theatre, in which they appeared with Bonnie Langford.\n\nToksvig and Elly Brewer wrote a Shakespeare deconstruction, \"The Pocket Dream\", which Toksvig performed at the Nottingham Playhouse and which transferred to the West End for a short run. The pair also wrote the 1992 TV series \"The Big One\", in which she also starred. She has appeared in a number of stage plays, including \"Androcles and the Lion\", \"Much Ado About Nothing\", and \"The Comedy of Errors\".\n\nIn 1996, she narrated the \"Dragons!\" interactive CD-ROM published by Oxford University Press and developed by Inner Workings, along with Harry Enfield. The software was primarily aimed at children and featured songs and poems about dragons. She also narrated the \"Winnie the Witch\" CD-ROM. She appeared in the \"Doctor Who\" audio drama \"Red\" by Big Finish Productions, released in August 2006. In December 2006, she hosted and sang at the London Gay Men's Chorus sold-out Christmas show, \"Make the Yuletide Gay\", at the Barbican Centre. Over Christmas and New Year 2007/2008, she narrated the pantomime \"Cinderella\" at the Old Vic Theatre. In October 2011, she narrated the new musical \"Soho Cinders\" at the Queen's Theatre, London. In 2011 she hosted a second season of BBC Two's \"Antiques Master\".\n\nToksvig wrote a play entitled \"Bully Boy\" which focused on post-traumatic stress among British servicemen. The play premièred at the Nuffield Theatre in Southampton in May 2011, and starred Anthony Andrews. The play then launched the debut season of St James Theatre in September 2012, the first new West End theatre to open in 30 years.\n\nIn the 2013 Christmas Special of BBC's \"Call the Midwife\", Toksvig made a cameo appearance as grumpy ward nurse Sister Gibbs.\n\nToksvig was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2014 New Year Honours for services to broadcasting.\n\nOn 28 April 2015, it was announced that Toksvig would leave BBC Radio 4's \"The News Quiz\" in June at the end of the 28th series, which was scheduled to begin on 15 May of that year. She said: \"I have decided it is time to move on and, of course, I feel sad but I think it's the right moment. The show is in great shape and, like a good house guest, you should always depart when people still wish you'd stay a bit longer.\" The BBC said Toksvig had made the \"difficult decision\" to leave in order \"to embark on a new and exciting stage of her career\". On 30 April 2015, Toksvig announced that her decision to quit \"The News Quiz\" had been made in order to allow her to help set up a new political party named the Women's Equality Party.\n\nIn November 2015, Toksvig was a guest of BBC Radio 4's \"Desert Island Discs\". Her choices included Joe Nichols (\"What's a Guy Gotta Do\"), Gustav Winckler, The Weather Girls, Barbra Streisand, and Bonnie Langford. Her book choice was \"The Ashley Book of Knots\", and her luxury item was an endless supply of the \"Daily Mail\".\n\nHer most recent play \"Silver Lining\" opened at the Rose Theatre Kingston on 11 February 2017, before touring to Portsmouth, Oxford, Cambridge, Ipswich, Keswick, York, and Salford. It's about five elderly ladies and a young carer in a retirement home which is about to be flooded by a storm. It stars Rachel Davies, Keziah Joseph, Maggie McCarthy, Joanna Monro, Sheila Reid, and Amanda Walker. Toksvig's son, Theo Toksvig-Stewart, made his professional stage debut in the play.\n\nShe has written more than twenty fiction and non-fiction books for children and adults, starting in 1994 with \"Tales from the Norse's Mouth\", a fiction tale for children. In 1995, she sailed around the coast of Britain with John McCarthy, who had been held hostage in Beirut. In 2003, she published \"Gladys Reunited: A Personal American Journey\", about her travels in the USA retracing her childhood. She writes regular columns for \"Good Housekeeping\", the \"Sunday Telegraph\" and \"The Lady\". In October 2008, she published \"Girls Are Best\", a history book for girls.\n\nIn 2009, her collected columns for \"The Sunday Telegraph\" were published in book form as \"The Chain of Curiosity\". In 2012, she published her latest book, \"Valentine Grey\", a historical novel set in the Boer War.\n\nIn 2012–13 Toksvig presented \"1001 Things You Should Know\" for Channel 4 daytime.\n\nToksvig began presenting the revival edition of the daytime game show \"Fifteen-to-One\" in April 2014. It is an hour long instead of the original half-hour edition presented by William G. Stewart. After two series had been broadcast, in June 2015, Channel 4 announced that a further three would be made, hosted by Toksvig.\nToksvig took over from Stephen Fry as host of \"QI\"; she hosted the first episode of the show's series \"N\", which was broadcast on 21 October 2016. In September 2018, Toksvig reported that she was only paid 40% of what Fry, her predecessor, had received. Toksvig had earlier told the Radio Times it would be “absurd” if she did not receive the same salary as Fry for chairing QI.\n\nOn 16 March 2017 she was announced as the new co-presenter of \"The Great British Bake Off\" on Channel 4 alongside Noel Fielding. They replaced the previous hosts Sue Perkins and Mel Giedroyc.\n\nToksvig was part of Red Wedge's comedy tour in the 1980s which supported the Labour Party. She was later a high-profile political activist supporting the Liberal Democrats. She both introduced frontbencher Menzies Campbell at the party's 2004 conference and was named as a possible parliamentary candidate.\n\nIn 2003 she stood as a candidate in the election for the Chancellorship of the University of Oxford, supporting a campaign against student fees. She was defeated in the first round of voting, achieving 1,179 first-place votes out of about 8,000 cast. The election was won by Chris Patten.\n\nIn 2011, some MPs urged Ofcom to investigate an \"obscene joke\" after Toksvig said on BBC Radio 4's \"The News Quiz\" that the Conservative Party had \"put the 'N' into cuts\" to child benefit. In 2012, she said in an interview that \"I don't think there's a party that represents anything I believe in\". Toksvig supports the charity and pressure group Liberty, hosting its 2012 awards ceremony. Toksvig attracted further criticism in 2015 for a joke on the subject of UKIP leader Nigel Farage having lost a testicle to cancer. She was appointed president of the Women of the Year Lunch.\n\nIn April 2015, Toksvig chaired the first, informal, conference of a new political party, the Women's Equality Party, and she subsequently left her job as presenter of \"The News Quiz\" to become co-founder of the party. She later explained that she had decided that it was \"not too late to fight the good fight, after all\". In September the same year she announced the dates for a comedy tour to raise funds for the party. The party's full set of policies were launched at Conway Hall, 20 October 2015.\n\nAs an eleven-year-old, Toksvig was present with her father, a leading Danish foreign affairs journalist, at NASA Mission Control Center in Houston, Texas during the first moon landing. In an appearance on BBC 1 show \"The TV That Made Me\", she stated she held the hand of Neil Armstrong's nervous secretary to calm the woman down during the final moments. She also revealed she had a lifetime fear of children's television puppet Basil Brush, although, ironically, she had written a 2002 episode of \"The Basil Brush Show\" entitled \"Molly Christmas\".\n\nToksvig is the mother of two daughters (Megan and Jesse) and a son (Theo). The children were carried by her then partner, Peta Stewart, from whom she separated in 1997, and were conceived through artificial insemination by donor Christopher Lloyd-Pack, younger brother of the actor Roger Lloyd-Pack.\n\nShe lives on a houseboat in Wandsworth with psychotherapist Debbie Toksvig, whom she joined in a civil partnership in 2007. They renewed their vows on 29 March 2014, the day same-sex marriage was introduced in England and Wales, and in December 2014, their civil partnership was converted into a marriage.\n\nIn 1994 the charity Save the Children dropped her services as compere of its 75th anniversary celebrations after she came out, but following a direct action protest by the Lesbian Avengers, the charity apologised.\n\nAn atheist and humanist, Toksvig is a patron of Humanists UK. In October 2012 she succeeded Sheila Hancock as Chancellor of the University of Portsmouth.\n\nToksvig became a British citizen in 2013.\n\nToksvig describes her \"posh\" accent as being the result of a deliberate attempt to copy the voice of Celia Johnson in \"Brief Encounter\", after being ostracised at boarding school for having an American accent.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "386303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=386303", "title": "Sheila Martin", "text": "Sheila Martin\n\nSheila Ann Martin (née Cowan; born July 31, 1943) is the wife of Paul Martin, who served as the 21st Prime Minister of Canada from December 12, 2003 to February 6, 2006. Her father was William \"Bill\" Cowan, a lawyer and philanthropist from Windsor, Ontario. She was named after her mother. Sheila was raised Protestant, and graduated from the University of Toronto in 1964.\n\nShe and Paul were neighbours and her father was law partners with Paul Martin Sr in Windsor, Ontario. They were engaged over Christmas in 1964 and married on September 11, 1965. They have three sons: Paul William Martin III (born September 11, 1966), Jamie Robert Martin (born June 21, 1969), and David Patrick Martin (born September 13, 1974).\n\nA Canada Steamship Lines ship, \"Sheila Ann\", is named in her honour.\n\nBefore her husband became the Prime Minister of Canada, Sheila Martin's work in Ottawa included serving on a committee called Politics and the Pen, and on this committee she helped give prizes and money to Canadian writers. The job was said to fit with her \"own literary tastes.\" In 2002, when Paul Martin left the cabinet, he credited her as a support to him and as an advisor:\n\nThroughout these years, Sheila Martin apparently had little aspirations in regards to her husband's office. Her husband's biographer John Gray quoted her as saying, \"Oh, God, I don't want to do this at all, so I just don't think about it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "20121760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20121760", "title": "Special Field Force", "text": "Special Field Force\n\nThe Special Field Force (SFF) is a Namibian Police Force paramilitary police unit created in 1995 by the late commissioner Ruben \"Danger\" Ashipala as an auxiliary aggressive unit to complement the Special Reserve Force (SRF). It encompasses border guards, VIP Protection Unit and Installation unit. Approximately half of the Namibian Police's (NAMPOL) overall complement is assigned to the SFF which is made up primarily of combatants from the former People's Liberation Army of Namibia (PLAN) and South West African Territorial Force (SWATF).\n\nAmong the population the Special Field Force is seen as the less educated and more brutal wing of the Namibian Police. They have been implicated in the intimidation, assault, torture and also murder of civilians in the secessionist uprisings in Namibia's Caprivi Strip in 1998 and 1999.\n\nAlso later, under normal and calm political conditions, human rights groups accused the Special Field Force of several atrocities, e.g.:\n"}
{"id": "15438359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15438359", "title": "State Hydraulic Works", "text": "State Hydraulic Works\n\nThe State Hydraulic Works () is a state agency organized under the Ministry of Environment and Forestry of Turkey responsible for the utilization of all the country's water resources. The institution's four major functions are energy, agriculture, services and environment.\n\nDevelopment of water resources in Turkey began with the establishment of the \"General Directorate of Public Works\" () by the Ottoman Government in 1914. The institution started to undertake continuous and systematical studies on irrigation, reclamation, flood control, navigation, water storage and distribution. \n\nin 1925, soon after the foundation of the Turkish Republic, regional offices were opened in Adana, Ankara, Bursa, Edirne and Izmir under the \"Waters Directorate\". Due to insufficient financial resources and field observations data available, water projects could not be expedited as planned. Severe drought, occurred in 1929, led to the establishment of the more comprehensive institution of \"Waters General Directorate\". In 1939, it was reorganized in \"Water Works General Directorate\". The agency conducted studies on feasibility, planning, gauging and water level recording.\n\nFinally in 1954, the institution was named \"General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works\" and assigned to the Ministry of Public Works. State Hydraulic Works was reassigned later to the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Since not a long time, the agency reports to the minister of environment and forestry.\n\nThe State Hydraulic Works is organized in three levels: The management, the department offices and the regional offices. While the first two levels are located in Ankara, the 25 regional offices are dispersed throughout Turkey.\n\nMajor functions of the regional offices are primarily collection of data in the field of mapping, conducting hydrometric measurements, surveying agricultural economy, land classification, drainage, groundwater and geology, and secondly to evaluate them for the planning, construction and operation of water structures.\n\nSince its establishment in 1954, State Hydraulic Works has made investments in the sector of energy for US$30.0 billion, agriculture for US$39.0 billion and services for US$12.0 billion, totaling up to US$81.0 billion.\n\nOf the 135 hydroelectric power plants (HEPP) in Turkey, State Hydraulic Works operates 53, which have a total installed capacity of 10,215 MW (29% of the country's total electric power capacity) and generated in 2003 electricity of 35,329 GWh (25.1% of the total).\n\nState Hydraulic Works has currently 24 HEPPs throughout the country under construction with a total installed capacity of 2,722 MW and annual generation of 8,920 GWh.\n\nTurkey has a total of 280,000 square kilometres of agricultural area, of which 85,000 km² is economically irrigable and 49,000 km² is currently being irrigated. As of 2005, an area of 28,000 km² is equipped with facilities of State Hydraulic Works's irrigation projects, making 10% of the total agricultural area and 57% of the irrigated area in Turkey.\n\nThe Southeastern Anatolia Project ( or GAP), a very important integrated project for the economic and social development of the Southeastern Anatolia Region, includes active farming with extensive irrigation systems and electricity generation. The project area covers the lower parts of the Euphrates and Tigris rivers in the 9 provinces of the region (Gaziantep, Adıyaman, Kilis, Şanlıurfa, Diyarbakır, Mardin, Siirt, Batman, and Şırnak), where a total of 6.5 million people live as of the 2000 census.\n\nThe project is one of the biggest investments of the last century undertaken by State Hydraulic Works and contains 13 sub-projects, 7 of which are in the Euphrates Basin and 6 of which are in the Tigris Basin. Within the scope of these 13 projects, 27,000 GWh hydroelectric energy will be produced annually with 7.5 GW installed capacity and 18,200 km² of land will be irrigated with the construction of 22 dams and 19 HEPPs.\nThe Atatürk Dam, the largest in Turkey and among the world's largest dams, is the centerpiece of the project.\n\nState Hydraulic Works is responsible by law for the supply of domestic and industrial water to settlements having population of more than 100,000. As of the 2000 census, there are 55 cities and towns in Turkey with populations over 100,000. State Hydraulic Works supply water to 26 million people in 45 cities at different regions.\n\nAs of the beginning of 2005, State Hydraulic Works supplied annually a total of around 2.5 km³ domestic water complying with drinking water standards. This figure will reach 5.3 km³ with completion of the projects which are under construction, or at the final design and planning stages. Water supply projects developed by State Hydraulic Works meet one third of the requirements for domestic and industrial water consumption.\n\nThe protection of nature and wildlife is of great importance for State Hydraulic Works. It conducts activities on development of sustainable water resources, both independently and in collaboration with other related governmental and non-governmental organizations. State Hydraulic Works also provides financial and technical support to protect archaeological and historical sites for the next generations.\n\nOne of the basic duties and responsibilities of State Hydraulic Works is building and operating protective structures against floods. It takes the necessary precautions and warns the relevant organizations in the event of flood emergencies.\n\nState Hydraulic Works conducts afforestation work and establishes recreation areas and facilities aiming at prevention of erosion, decreasing the sediment amount deposited in dams through rivers, restoring the environment of dam basins and their catchments. Tree planted areas also serve as picnic areas and public promenades.\n\nState Hydraulic Works needs to obtain land properties (real estates) for its development projects of water and land resources. Up to now, around 5,200 km² of private land was expropriated. 70,000 families and 350,000 people were relocated by dam projects. It is estimated that 50,000 families and 250,000 people more will be affected in the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2207261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2207261", "title": "Trade Adjustment Assistance", "text": "Trade Adjustment Assistance\n\nTrade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) is a federal program of the United States government to act as a way to reduce the damaging impact of imports felt by certain sectors of the U.S. economy. The current structure features four components of Trade Adjustment Assistance: for workers, firms, farmers, and communities. Each cabinet-level department was tasked with a different sector of the overall Trade Adjustment Assistance program. The program for workers is the largest, and administered by the U.S. Department of Labor. The program for farmers is administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the firms and communities programs are administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce.\n\nTrade Adjustment Assistance consists of four programs authorized under the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 and defined further under the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. § 2341 et seq) (Trade Act). The original idea for a trade compensation program goes back to 1939. Later, it was proposed by President John F. Kennedy as part of the total package to open up free trade. President Kennedy said: \"When considerations of national policy make it desirable to avoid higher tariffs, those injured by that competition should not be required to bear the full brunt of the impact. Rather, the burden of economic adjustment should be borne in part by the Federal Government.\"\n\nSupporters argue that free trade offers widespread benefits among consumers, workers and firms in the U.S. in terms of lower prices, higher efficiency and quality, and more jobs. They claim that gains from negotiated trade deals are large and widely distributed across sectors. For example, in 2011 there were 9.7 million jobs supported by exports, nearly 15% more than in 2010. Benefits from free trade agreements (FTA) with Chile, Singapore, Australia, Morocco, and South Korea for the U.S. economy are estimated in $4 billion, $17 billion, $19 billion, $6 billion and $30 billion, respectively.\n\nIn order to achieve trade benefits, however, the U.S. economy must reallocate production factors between sectors. Thus, free trade also leads to costs associated with workers displaced by import competition and offshore outsourcing. According to the Department of Labor (DOL), displaced workers are defined as \"persons 20 years of age and older who lost or left jobs because their plant or company closed or moved, there was insufficient work for them to do, or their position or shift was abolished\". The International Labour Organization (ILO) states that workers bore high adjustment costs such as unemployment, lower wage during transition, obsolescence of skills, training costs, and personal costs (e.g. mental suffering). These trade costs, albeit relatively smaller than the benefits, are highly concentrated by region, industry and worker demographics. For instance, some occupations, like teacher, have not experienced import competition while for shoe manufacturing occupations import competition has increased by 40 percentage points.\n\nIn general, manufacturing workers are most affected by import competition compare to workers in other sectors. Furthermore, while gains from trade require a long time to take full effect, costs are felt rapidly, particularly in less competitive sectors.\n\nThere is a strong correlation between import penetration and unemployment. Ebenstein et al. (2009) find that a 1 percentage point increase in import penetration leads to a 0.6 percentage point decrease in manufacturing employment in the U.S. resulting in a reduction of manufacturing jobs of almost 5%. According to a report by the Progressive Policy Institute, between 2007 and 2011, 1.3 million direct and indirect jobs were lost to increasing imports of goods and services. Similarly, Kletzer (2005) estimations suggest that industries facing high import competition account for 40% of manufacturing job losses. The Economic Policy Institute (EPI) estimates that by 2015 the overall U.S. trade deficit will correspond to the loss of additional 214,000 jobs.\n\nAlthough trade-dislocated workers are not significantly different from workers displaced by other reasons, they present some slight differences. They tend to be older, less educated, more tenured and production-oriented, have higher earnings on the lost job and fewer transferable skills, and the prevalence on women is higher than for other displaced workers. These characteristics are associated with limited labor mobility and reemployment difficulties, especially for workers with obsolete skills who do not receive additional training, no matter the reason of displacement. Furthermore, asymmetric information in absence of good job-search skills and geographic mismatch lead to prolonged unemployment. Hence, trade-displaced workers face longer periods to find a new job and have low reemployment rates (63% during the last two decades according to Kletzer, 2005). Reemployment is particularly challenging for older workers. The DOL (2012) reports that in 2012 reemployment rates for workers ages 55 to 64 and 65 years and over were 47 and 24% respectively while the rate for those ages 20 to 54 was about 62%.\n\nOnce dislocated workers obtain a new job, they suffer significant wage reductions. About two thirds of dislocated workers have lower wages in the new job and one quarter of displaced workers from manufacturing who find a new full-time job suffer earning losses of 30% or more. The reason is that many workers find jobs in services sector where salaries are lower. Ebenstein et al. (2009) find that displaced workers from manufacturing who find a job in the services sector suffer a wage decline of between 6 and 22%. They conclude that a 1 percentage point increase in occupation-specific import competition is associated with a 0.25 percentage point decline in real wages.\n\nImport competition impacts negatively not only dislocated workers but also their families and communities. Displaced workers fall behind in their mortgage payments and in providing health care to their families. Families must spend down assets to smooth consumption. There is evidence that displaced workers are in worse health after losing a job. According to a Report by the Corporation for Enterprise Development (CFED), more than 46% of the jobless lack health insurance and 31% of workers without insurance do not see a doctor although sick. If the worker is able to be relocated in other job in other region the whole family is displaced and children are uprooted from their schools, increasing domestic tensions. The phenomenon of displaced workers has a broader impact because it also affects aggregate demand for goods and services and tax collections.\n\nIn brief, trade leads to an unequal redistribution of costs and benefits. The adjustment process impacts not only displaced workers but also the whole society and economy. Furthermore, labor reallocation from inefficient to competitive sectors aimed at realizing the benefits of trade can be impeded by several obstacles described above, prolonging the transition period and increasing the adjustment costs. In this framework, several scholars and policy-makers have argued that trade-related adjustment costs merit a policy response.\nThe TAA has persisted for more than five decades showing ample political support. Having an assistance program targeted exclusively at trade-displaced workers enjoyed wide political support among Congressional representatives in the past because the program served to decrease political resistance to and workers' lobbying efforts against FTAs. As a 2012 Report by the Joint Economic Committee states: \"TAA needs to remain an integral part of trade policy because it compensates those harmed by import competition without sacrificing the larger demonstrable benefits of trade.\"\n\nThe Department of Labor Employment and Training Administration program, Trade Adjustment Assistance for Workers, provides a variety of reemployment services including training and job-searching assistance and benefits to displaced workers who have lost their jobs or suffered a reduction of hours and wages as a result of increased imports or shifts in production outside the United States. The TAA program aims to help program participants obtain new jobs faster, ensuring they retain employment and earn wages comparable to their prior employment. Among the main benefits are: trade readjustment allowances (TRA) in addition to regular unemployment insurance (UI) up to 117 weeks of cash payments for all workers concurrently enrolled only in full-time training (workers must be enrolled in training 8 weeks after certification or 16 weeks after layoff, whichever is later, to receive TRA), and Reemployment Trade Adjustment Assistance (RTAA) or supplementary wages for workers age 50 and over, and earning less than $50,000 per year in reemployment. It provides a wage supplement equal to 50% of the difference between a worker's reemployment wage and wage at the worker's certified job with a maximum benefit of $10,000 over a period of up to two years (workers must be reemployed within 26 weeks). The TAA used to include a Health Coverage Tax Credit Program which will definitively expire at the end of 2013 and other tax credits related to health coverage will become available (e.g. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act). The program promotes retraining since workers receive the TRAs only if they participate in a full-time TAA training (or are under a waiver). The program is administered by the Department of Labor (DOL) in cooperation with the 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.\n\nThe Secretary of Labor was authorized to implement Trade Readjustment Assistance (TRA) and relocation allowances through cooperating state agencies. TRA are income support payments that were, at that time, paid in addition to an individual's regular unemployment compensation. The original program had no training or reemployment component. The program was rarely used until 1974, when it was expanded as part of the Trade Act of 1974. The Trade Act of 1974 established the training component of the program. In 1981, the program was sharply curtailed by the Congress at the request of the Reagan Administration. In 2002, the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act (TAARA) expanded the program and it was combined with the trade adjustment program provided under the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).\n\nThe TAA has recently suffered several amendments. In 2009, the TAA program was expanded by the Trade and Globalization Adjustment Assistance Act (TGAAA) of 2009, which was part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. These benefits were extended through February 2011 by the Omnibus Trade Act of 2010. After that, the program reverted to the pre-expansion provisions under the TAARA of 2002. In October 2011, the Trade Adjustment Assistance Extension Act (TAAEA) of 2011 was signed into law, reinstating most of the benefits included in the TGAAA of 2009. The TAA is authorized through December 31, 2014 but with some modifications. The TAA will operate under its current provisions through December 31, 2013. For the additional year until its expiration on December 31, 2014, the TAA is set to operate under the eligibility and benefit levels established by the TAARA of 2002.\n\nThe Department of Commerce program, Trade Adjustment Assistance for Firms, provides financial assistance to manufacturers and service firms affected by import competition. Sponsored by the Department of Commerce's Economic Development Administration (EDA), this cost-sharing federal assistance program helps pay for projects that improve firms' competitiveness. EDA, through a national network of 11 Trade Adjustment Assistance Centers (TAACs), provides technical assistance on a cost-shared basis to U.S. manufacturing, production, and service firms in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.\n\nTrade Adjustment Assistance for Firms provides import impacted companies with professional guidance, business recovery plan development, and cost-sharing for outside consulting services. Eligibility is established along similar lines, with companies showing that there has been a recent decrease in sales and employment, in part due to customers shifting purchases away from the applicant and to imported goods. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009 expanded eligibility to service firms as well as the traditional manufacturing companies that had been the sole focus of the program. This expansion for service firms and workers was scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010, and the program would revert to the pre-ARRA structure without a vote to extend the authorization.\n\nTrade Adjustment Assistance for Farmers, created in 2002 by wide-ranging trade legislation (P.L. 107-210, Sec. 141), authorizes the expenditure of up to $90 million per year through FY2007. Under the program, certain agricultural producers can each receive payments of up to $10,000 per year if price declines for their commodity were at least partly caused by imports. To be eligible for such assistance, such producers must be members of certified groups and meet a number of criteria specified by the law. The program is administered by the Department of Agriculture.\n\nWorkers must be directly impacted by imports or by a shift in production of their firm to any country with a free trade agreement with the United States or to beneficiary countries under the Andean Trade Preference, the African Growth and Opportunity, or by certain other shifts in production. Employees of upstream suppliers are eligible if the product supplied to the primary firm consists 20% of the production or sales of the secondary workers' firm, or their employer's loss of business with the primary firm contributed significantly to the secondary workers' separation from work.\n\nEmployees of downstream producers are eligible if they perform additional, value-added production processes for articles produced by primary firms, and the primary certification was based on an increase in imports or a shift in production to Canada or Mexico.\n\nIn order to receive the benefits displaced workers must fill a petition as a group to initiate the investigation to address the reasons of their layoff. Once the DOL finds that trade has contributed notably to the layoff, the group is certified but the individual worker must still apply for benefits at a local One-Stop Career Center.\n\nUnder the current law, as modified in 2009, workers in most service jobs (call center operators, for example) are eligible for trade adjustment assistance. In 2004, a group of computer experts displaced by overseas labor tried to apply for trade adjustment assistance but were rejected because computer software was not considered an \"article\" by the DOL. After a series of scathing decisions by the United States Court of International Trade criticizing the DOL's approach, the DOL revised its policies in April 2006 to extend trade adjustment assistance to more workers producing digital products such as software code. Nevertheless, the program under the TAARA of 2002 starting on January 1, 2014 does not include trade-displaced workers in services sectors.\n\nFarmers and ranchers adversely impacted by trade will be eligible to participate in a new program operated by the Department of Agriculture and are potentially eligible to receive training under TAA. They are not eligible for the Trade Readjustment Allowance.\n\nThere are several components of the overall cost of the program. The principal spending of the program is in reemployment services which are set to the annual funding levels of the Trade Act of 2002: $220 million for state grants (plus administrative allotments equal to 15% of each state's grant). The TRA income support and RTAA wage insurance program are uncapped entitlements. In FY 2011, the cost of TRA was $234,126,500 and the cost of RTAA was $43,227,212, based on the number of participants of each program in this year (25,689 and 1,133 participants respectively).\n\nThe TAA for workers have demonstrated overall low effectiveness so far which is reflected in the controversy to reauthorize the program before the 112th Congress.\n\nFirst, the program is not very effective providing support during the transition because a significant portion of workers does not receive TRA. In FY2011 there were over 196,000 TAA participants and only around 46,000 received TRA. One reason is that the training enrollment deadline of 8/16 weeks seriously limits the ability of workers to enroll in training programs and receive the benefit. Moreover, even for those workers receiving TRA and UI, only a portion of the lost income is replaced. The program provides health insurance coverage but in the past it has not been very effective since participation in TAA was associated with decreased coverage in the period following job loss.\n\nThe effectiveness of the program in terms of fostering reemployment is very low too. Data on post-TAA outcomes for program exiters based on DOL estimations shows that the entered employment rate was 66% in 2011. The Mathematica Policy Research and SPR report finds that the TAA is not effective in terms of increasing employability. There is positive effect on the reemployment rate for participants but it is not statistically different from that for non-participants.\n\nThe effectiveness of the program in terms of mitigating earning losses in the new job is very low too as several studies report. Reynolds and Palatucci (2008) estimate that \"participating in the TAA program causes a wage loss approximately 10 percentage points greater than if the displaced worker had chosen not to participate in the program.\" The report by Mathematica Policy Research and SPR states that TAA was estimated to have no effect on earnings and compared to a sample of UI claimants, TAA participants worked about the same number of weeks but had lower earnings.\n\nMoreover, a 2007 GAO report shows that in FY 2006 only 5% or less of TAA participants received wage insurance. The program is ineffective closing the earning gap because in order to be eligible for wage insurance workers must find a job within 26 weeks after being laid off, which proved to be a very short period. Additionally, the program only replaces half of the losses.\n\nFinally, the implementation of this program overlaps extensively with others such as Workforce Investment Act generating extra costs and duplicating administrative efforts. The process to allocate training funds is also problematic. States receive funds at the beginning of the fiscal year but it does not properly reflect the state´s demand for training services. In addition, states do not receive funds for case management and lack flexibility to use the funds for training. Thus, states face challenges in providing services to workers properly.\n\nOver last years, the TAA program has been subject to diverse critics due to its flawed performance and extremely high cost. The TAA was only extended to the end of 2014 and the last reauthorization process before the 112th Congress exposed a lack of consensus about the program.\nSeveral scholars from different institutions have proposed policy alternatives.\n\nThe Financial Services Forum, through its 2008 white paper \"Succeeding in the Global Economy: An Adjustment Assistance Program for American Workers,\" proposes to combine the UI and TAA programs into a single integrated program for all displaced workers who qualify for UI no matter the reason of displacement The program includes: wage insurance, portability of health insurance (under the current program COBRA), and reemployment services such as assistance with geographic relocation and retraining. The wage insurance would cushion the cost of lower wages in the new job for workers age 45 and older. The program replaces 50% of workers' lost wages for up to two years, for up to $10,000 per year, for workers that hold the previous job for at least two years. Regarding retraining, workers would be able to deduct from their gross income, for tax purposes, the full cost of education and training expenses, and there will be no limitations in terms of area of training.\n\nThe estimated annual cost of the program is $22 billion. The Financial Services Forum proposes to replace the current tax system with a flat 1.2% tax on all earning at the state level, and a flat rate of 0.12% on all earnings at the federal level to pay for the program.\n\nScholars at the Brookings Institution and the Institute for International Economics proposed a twofold program including a wage insurance and subsidy for medical insurance in addition to the UI program for eligible workers. On the one hand, the program covers workers displaced by any reason, not just trade, who suffer an earning loss after reemployment. Displaced workers defined as \"workers displaced due to plant closing or relocation, elimination of position or shift, and insufficient work\".\n\nIt would replace a portion between 30% and 70% of the difference between earnings on the old and new job. In order to be eligible, workers must have been employed full-time at their previous job for at least two years, and suffered a wage decrease that can be documented. The insurance would be paid only after workers found a new job and they will receive it for up to two years from the original date of job loss. Annual payments would be capped at $10,000 or $20,000 per year. The payments would be administered through state UI.\n\nIn addition, the program would also offer a health insurance subsidy for all full-time displaced workers, for up to 6 months, or until they found a new job (whichever is earlier). Workers would be limited to receiving the subsidy no more frequently than once during a certain period, probably 3 or 4 years, in order to prevent job churning.\n\nIn 2001, Robert Litan and Lori Kletzer estimated that about 20% of displaced workers reemployed full-time would have had at least 2 years' tenure on their previous job and suffered a wage loss in the new one. The program would cost from $2 to $5 billion per year. This cost is estimated with a national unemployment rate between 4.2% and 4.9%. In 2012, the average national unemployment rate was 8.9%. Consequently, the projected cost would be higher if the program would be implemented today.\n\n"}
{"id": "12310148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12310148", "title": "Value criterion", "text": "Value criterion\n\nIn Lincoln-Douglas Debate, the value criterion (criterion, VC, or standard) is the means of weighing the value premise. Unlike the value premise, the value criterion is often swayed to either the affirmative or negative side. \n\nThe value criterion's main purpose is to weigh the value premise; otherwise, the impacts of the arguments in the round are left hanging. An argument in a Lincoln-Douglas Debate generally contains an impact or the effect of that argument (why it matters). This necessitates an objective order to determine which impacts are more important. The value criterion provides this objective order and the round reduces to whichever side achieves the value criterion better. Whether this is done quantifiably or qualitatively is left up to the debaters to decide.\n\nMany times it becomes the vantage point of the debate because the values are, many times, the same in a round. Since each side has impacts that best pertain to their own value criterion, each side must try to convince the judge to weigh the round according to their value criterion.\n\nExample: Resolved: In matters of U. S. immigration policy, restrictions on the rights of non-citizens are consistent with democratic ideals.\n\nBecause \"democratic ideals\" is what is trying to be achieved in the resolution, most debaters would find it best and effective to use it as a value premise. Therefore, the debate turns to the value criterion. The affirmative, in this case, may use \"preservation of procedure\" which explains how their value premise is weighed, while the negative may opt to choose \"preservation of autonomy\". In both instances, the value criteria are attainable by their respective sides and therefore, it is fair to weigh the round. It would be left up to the debaters to determine which value criterion should be used to weigh.\n"}
{"id": "42034762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42034762", "title": "Workers' Power (UK)", "text": "Workers' Power (UK)\n\nWorkers' Power was a Trotskyist group which formed the British section of the League for the Fifth International. The group published the magazine \"Workers Power\" and distributed the English language journal \"Fifth International\".\n\nThe group originated in the International Socialists (IS) as the Left Faction. The Faction argued that IS needed a fully developed programme. It also criticised the stance IS adopted on the Provisional Irish Republican Army's paramilitary actions in 1972. In 1973, it set up a faction, then when it refused to dissolve in 1974 it was excluded from IS and formed the Workers Power Group. In 1975, it briefly joined with Workers Fight to form the International-Communist League which split into its constituent parts soon afterward.\n\nIn 1980, Workers Power abandoned the position that the Stalinist states were state capitalist, seeing this position as an error on the part of Tony Cliff who argued that the USSR was state capitalist, functioning as a giant company which competed on the world market militarily. In that year it co-published \"The Degenerated Revolution\" which argued that countries other than the USSR (such as those in Eastern Europe and Cuba) were \"degenerate workers states\" and \"degenerate from birth\", representing a nuance to the Fourth International's 1948 analysis that the USSR was a degenerated workers state while the other countries were deformed workers' states.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Workers Power was involved in solidarity around the miners strike, arguing for a general strike against the Tories and for picket line defence against police violence towards strikers. Workers Power was active in the anti-fascist movement against the National Front and the British National Party. Towards the end of the 1990s, it was a key organiser in the Coalition Against BP in Colombia, highlighting abuse or workers and environmental giant by British Petroleum. Workers Power members were involved in No Sweat along with the Alliance for Workers Liberty until 2002.\n\nIn 1995, Workers Power founded a youth organisation, Revolution, which was politically independent though closely linked to the group. Revolution played an active role in the anti-capitalist and anti-war movements.\n\nWorkers Power took part in the Socialist Alliance, standing a candidate in the London GLA elections in 2000 and in the general election in 2001. They subsequently withdrew in 2004 as the Socialist Workers Party prepared to drop the Socialist Alliance and launch the Respect Party coalition, which Workers Power argued was a reformist, populist and cross-class alliance which would be unstable politically. In the General Election of 2010, Jeremy Drinkall stood as an Anticapitalist - Workers Power candidate in the Vauxhall constituency in South London. He polled 109 votes (0.3%).\n\nWorkers' Power called for a rank and file movement in the trade unions, and for a new mass workers' party in Britain. The group grew in recent years through work in the student and anti-war movements. Members in the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers won support for a resolution calling for a conference to discuss the formation of a new workers party, which led to the RMT sponsored conference in London in January 2006 on the crisis of working class representation, which was attended by over 350 people. Workers Power subsequently joined the Socialist Party-initiated Campaign for a New Workers' Party, even though they were critical of some of its formulations in the original statement (arguing the need for the party to be revolutionary from the start). They left the CNWP in 2007.\n\nInternationally Workers Power were strong advocates of the Social Forum movement, attending both the World Social Forum and European Social Forums. Their position was that the international forums providing a basis for launching a Fifth International in the struggle against globalisation and the international institutions such as the International Monetary Fund and World bank.\n\nWorkers Power participated in the discussions on the Left after the 2009 European Elections on left unity, arguing for a conference to create a new workers' party which they argued should form in the same way as the French New Anticapitalist Party through local committees focused both around developing a programme and organising action.\n\nIn the austerity crisis in Britain after the 2008 credit crunch, Workers Power was involved in the local anti-cuts groups and the student organisation National Campaign Against Fees and Cuts. Its main slogans were for the creation of a rank and file movement in the trade unions, a national anti cuts federation and for a general strike against the cuts.\n\nIn 2013, Workers Power members and supports entered and formed the Class Struggle Platform in Left Unity. In January 2014, Workers Power entered unity talks with Socialist Resistance and the International Socialist Network (ISN), although the ISN has since dissolved itself.\n\nIn September 2015, Workers Power dissolved, calling for all socialists to join the Labour Party. Former members have since formed the Red Flag Platform, describing itself as \"a revolutionary socialist initiative campaigning in the Labour Party\". It published the first issue of its Red Flag newspaper in November 2015.\n\nThe League believes that the Russian revolution degenerated because of the takeover of the party by the Stalinist leadership. They agree with Vladimir Lenin's position that the young Soviet state had become \"bureaucratically deformed\" before it degenerated under the Stalinist leadership. The League disagrees with the Cliff tradition that the revolution was doomed without world revolution happening in the period after the First World War, and who also see it as degenerating into state capitalism around 1928. The League viewed it as still having post-capitalist property relations and therefore remained a degenerated workers state (degenerated because it was once a healthy workers state, then deformed, before the Stalinist caste takeover). Before the state degenerated in the thirties, Leon Trotsky and the Left Opposition had the programmatic demand to \"reform\" the \"bureaucratically deformed\" state by revitalising the Soviets and bringing more democracy to the party. In the thirties Trotsky viewed the USSR as being unable to be reformed, and therefore needing a political revolution not a social revolution.\n\nThe League differs from other groups in that it calls Eastern European states \"degenerate from birth\" rather than deformed. It also viewed Josip Broz Tito in Yugoslavia as a \"disobedient Stalinist\" whose actions moved Yugoslavia in a direction towards, not against, imperialism. This is against groups such as the US SWP and eventually after the Third World Congress, the Fourth International, who viewed Tito as an unconscious Trotskyist and sent greetings to the Yugoslav Communist Party (YCP) asking to attend their conference in order to help them in a revolutionary path. This analysis by the Fourth International which originally came from Michel Pablo was the reason they saw the Eastern European states as having only quantitative deformations, not being qualitatively degenerate. The FI thought there was a possibility that the communist parties in Eastern Europe would break with Stalin as the YCP and Tito had done, and through this become revolutionary. The League disagrees, arguing that whilst divisions in the Stalinist bureaucracy like the Tito split were possible, these parties would remain bureaucratic, and while they could carry out a bureaucratic, top down, social revolution and create post-capitalist property relations, there would need to be a political revolution against them as they were a bureaucratic caste, like Joseph Stalin's in the Soviet Union. Because of this these states were classed as \"degenerate from birth\" instead of \"degenerated\", although the tasks for revolutionaries in them – political revolution – remained the same. This is just a \"linguistic\" difference in order to show the historical circumstances these states came into existence by.\n\nThe League believes that the Fourth International became centrist in 1951 when it adopted the position that the Stalinist parties in Eastern European countries like Yugoslavia could be reformed back to a healthy state and that the Stalinists were roughly 'blunt instruments' for carrying out the proletarian revolution. As a result, the Fourth International has started deep entryism in social democratic and Stalinist parties.\n\nAs they regard both sides of the 1953 split in the Fourth International to have affirmed this stance, which they regard as a fundamental breach with Leninism and Trotskyism, and as they believe all the major forces having emerged from the Fourth International to be implementing this false 'processist' methodology today, they call for a new Fifth International to be built by the working class forces fighting neoliberalism worldwide, including from the workers' trade unions, parties and other forces participating in the World Social Forum and analogous continental formations like the Asian and European Social Forums.\n\nWorkers Power (UK) published a book in 1983, called \"Death Agony of the Fourth International\" which remains the group's major work on analysing the post war Trotskyist movement.\n\nThe League for the Fifth International calls for the creation of rank and file movements in the trade unions, based on the National Minority Movement formed by the Communist Party of Great Britain in the 1920s. It is an anti-bureaucratic organisation and is critical of 'Broad Left' alliances in the unions which, they argue, act as electoral machines for left wing leader trade union bureaucrats. The Broad Left projects prevent criticism of left leaders in the unions and can act to frustrate action at certain times since it does not create a rank and file mechanism for organising strikes. Their analysis includes differentiating between left and right wing bureaucrats but also between the union full-time apparatus and the members of the union in the branches and work places. The bureaucrats will always tend towards a compromise with the owners of industry since their role is to negotiate and act as brokers between their members and the capitalist class. The large wages and luxurious lifestyle of trade union leaders undermines their ability to represent their members interests, since they are disconnected from the living and working conditions of large parts of the union movement.\n\nThe League emphasises the transitional programme and incorporates political demands in their publications. They also advocate a strategy of permanent revolution (i.e., not stageist, and in the impossibility of the bourgeois in semi-colonial countries leading revolutions). They support Lenin's analysis of imperialism as a higher stage of capitalism based on international capital concentrated in the 'developed' western world, rather than simply as militarism and war. In 2010 the League adopted the position that China had become imperialist.\n\nThey see the current stage of their organisations project as being a 'fighting propaganda group'. They are critical of groups like the Socialist Workers Party and Socialist Party which they argue are not mass parties of the working class and therefore should not declare themselves as parties.\n\nWorkers Power published a monthly newspaper. The last edition appeared in September 2015.\n\nWorkers Power published the journal of the League for the Fifth International, called Fifth International. This included a special edition entitled \"The Credit Crunch – A Marxist Analysis\". The last edition appeared in Autumn 2010.\nWorkers Power has also published many pamphlets and books, the two most important in terms of their tradition being Death Agony of the Fourth International and The Degenerated Revolution. Other pamphlets include \"Marxism and the Trade Unions\", \"Women's Oppression\", \"Black Liberation\", \"LGBT Liberation\", a critique of the SWP/Cliff tradition and on the crisis of Stalinism after 1989.\n\nIn 2007 they republished \"The Road to Red October\", a pamphlet originally released in 1987, to commemorate the 90th anniversary of the Russian Revolution.\n\nIn 2006 the League for the Fifth International suffered a split which particularly affected the British section. The minority, which left to form Permanent Revolution, believed that the world economy was in a long upward wave (a position they adopted from Ernest Mandel) and that the possibility of a crisis of capitalism was unlikely for several more years. They criticised the majority as having an overly optimistic perspective or a pre-revolutionary period.\n\nIn 2012, two further groups split, one criticised Workers Power's position on the NATO intervention in Libya and 16 more left to launch what the majority described as the \"liquidationist\" Anti-Capitalist Initiative, the latter reducing Workers Power's membership by about a third.\n\n\n"}
