{"id": "8082597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8082597", "title": "3D ultrasound", "text": "3D ultrasound\n\n3D ultrasound is a medical ultrasound technique, often used in fetal, cardiac, trans-rectal and intra-vascular applications. 3D ultrasound refers specifically to the volume rendering of ultrasound data and is also referred to as 4D (3-spatial dimensions plus 1-time dimension) when it involves a series of 3D volumes collected over time.\n\nWhen generating a 3D volume the ultrasound data can be collected in 4 common ways. Freehand, which involves tilting the probe and capturing a series of ultrasound images and recording the transducer orientation for each slice. Mechanically, where the internal linear probe tilt is handled by a motor inside the probe. Using an endoprobe, which generates the volume by inserting a probe and then removing the transducer in a controlled manner. The fourth technology is the matrix array transducer that uses beamsteering to sample points throughout a pyramid shaped volume.\n\nThe general risks of ultrasound also apply to 3D Ultrasound. Essentially ultrasound is considered safe. While other imaging modalities use radioactive dye or ionizing radiation, for example, ultrasound transducers send pulses of high frequency sound into the body and then listen for the echo.\n\nIn summary, the primary risks associated with ultrasound would be the potential heating of tissue or cavitation. The mechanisms by which tissue heating and cavitation are measured are through the standards called thermal index (TI) and mechanical index (MI). Even though the FDA outlines very safe values for maximum TI and MI it is still recommended to avoid unnecessary ultrasound imaging.\n\nThe progress of growing babies in the womb is difficult to examine as the fetuses are always in motion with rapid rate of heartbeat. So while scanning a womb, the patients need to keep their breath still so the real picture can be captured. With 3D US, the doctors can now detect the movement of fetuses in a flash of second and also take necessary step immediately. In addition to examining the position of the fetus, the problems and any abnormal behaviors in the womb can be detected like accumulation of fluid or any spine curvature. With 3D US and 3D surfacing the heartbeat of the fetus can also be traced enabling the doctor to outline the growth of the baby.\nThe application of three-dimension ultrasound in cardiac treatments has done outstanding progress in scanning and treating the heart issues. When the 3D ultrasound technology is used to visualize the cardiac state of an individual, it is called as 3D Echocardiography. With the integration of other technologies with the Ultrasound, it is now possible to track the quantitative measures like the chamber volume that occurs during the cardiac cycle. Also, it provides other useful information like tracking the blood flow, speed of contractions and expansions. With the 3D Echocardiography method doctors now can easily detect the artery diseases and can finely examine the various defects. The echo applications helps to give a real-time image of the cardiac structures.\nTraditionally, with the 2D US the specific position of organs and tissues useful in surgeries could not be located especially in the oblique plane. However, with the advent of 3D US, the imaging technique has evolved manifolds enabling the surgeons to get a real-time picture of the tissues and organs and visualize the complete scan more efficiently. In addition to this, 3D US provides surgical guidance in terms of treating transplant and cancer with its technique of rotational visualizing while scanning. This technology has evolved various methods like rotational scanning, slice projection, use of integrated array transducer that helps the surgeons to handle the traumatic cancer patients. Further, with the 3D US doctors can now treat various kind of tumors as every tissue can be easily diagnosed and introspected to study the defects and cause. Thus, we see that the ultimate scanning and visualization done by 3D US has developed better ways of treating the patients with problems like cancer, tumors and transplants. \nBlood vessels and arteries movements are not easy to track because of their distribution due to which capturing a real-time picture becomes difficult. Diagnosis is widely used in every kind of treatment and with the 3D US, it is now possible to track dynamic movement of blood cells, veins and arteries. In addition to this, various types of diagnosis like measuring the diameter, diagnosing the wall between the arteries can be detected with a magnetic tracker integrated with 3D US that helps in accurate positioning. So the technology gives imaging assistance and also has a sensor that helps in tracking the position of vessels in operations. \nReal-time three-dimensional ultrasound is used during peripheral nerve blockade procedures to identify relevant anatomy and monitor the spread of local anesthetic around the nerve. Peripheral nerve blockades prevent the transmission of pain signals from the site of injury to the brain without deep sedation, which makes them particularly useful for outpatient orthopedic procedures. Real-time 3D ultrasound allows muscles, nerves and vessels to be clearly identified while a needle or catheter is advanced under the skin. 3D ultrasound is able to view the needle regardless of the plane of the image, which is a substantial improvement over 2D ultrasound. Additionally, the image can be rotated or cropped in real time to reveal anatomical structures within a volume of tissue. Physicians at the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville have been developing techniques using real time 3D ultrasound to guide peripheral nerve blocks for shoulder, knee, and ankle surgery.\n\n"}
{"id": "47087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47087", "title": "AIBO", "text": "AIBO\n\nAIBO (\"stylized aibo, Artificial Intelligence Robot\", homonymous with , \"pal\" or \"partner\" in Japanese) is a series of robotic pets designed and manufactured by Sony. Sony announced a prototype Aibo in mid-1998. The first consumer model was introduced on May 11, 1999. New models were released every year until 2006. Although most models were dog-like, other inspirations included lion-cubs and space explorer, and only the ERS-7 version and ERS-1000 versions was explicitly a \"robotic dog\".\n\nIn 2006, AIBO was added into the Carnegie Mellon University Robot Hall of Fame.\n\nOn January 26, 2006 Sony announced that it would discontinue AIBO and several other products in an effort to make the company more profitable. Sony's AIBO customer support was withdrawn gradually, with support for the final ERS-7M3 ending in March 2013. \n\nIn July 2014, Sony stopped providing repairs for AIBO products and did not provide customer support or repair for AIBO robots.\n\nIn November 2017, Sony announced a new generation of AIBO after 11 years. The fourth generation model, ERS-1000, was launched in Japan on 11 January 2018. The second lottery sale was set on 6 February 2018 at 14:59.\n\nAIBO grew out of Sony's Computer Science Laboratory (CSL). Founded in 1990, CSL was set up to emulate the famed innovation center at Xerox’s Palo Alto Research Center (PARC). CSL's first product was the Aperios operating system, later to form the base software some AIBO models used. When Nobuyuki Idei became president of Sony in 1995, he sought to adopt a digital agenda, reflected in the new motto he gave the company, “Digital Dream Kids,” and the prominence he gave to CSL.\nFamed engineer Dr. Toshitada Doi is credited as AIBO’s original progenitor: in 1994 he had started work on robots with artificial intelligence expert Masahiro Fujita within CSL. Fujita would write that the robot's behaviors will need to “be sufficiently complex or unexpected so that people keep an interest in watching or taking care of it”. Fujita argued that entertainment robots might be viable as \"A robot for entertainment can be effectively designed using various state-of-the-art technologies, such as speech recognition and vision, even though these technologies may not be mature enough for applications where they perform a critical function. While there exists special and difficult requirements in entertainment applications themselves, limited capabilities in the speech and vision systems may turn out to be an interesting and attractive feature for appropriately designed entertainment robots.\" His early monkey-like prototype \"MUTANT\" included behaviors that would become part of AIBOs including tracking a yellow ball, shaking hands, karate strikes and sleeping. Fujita would later receive the IEEE Inaba Technical Award for Innovation Leading to Production for \"AIBO, the world's first mass-market consumer robot for entertainment applications\".\n\nA friend of Doi's, the artist Hajime Sorayama, was enlisted to create the initial designs for the AIBO's body. Those designs are now part of the permanent collections of Museum of Modern Art and the Smithsonian Institution. The first generation AIBO design won Japan's prestigious \"Good Design Award, Grand Prize\" and a special Intelligent Design award in the 2000 German Red Dot awards.\n\nIn 1997 Doi received backing from Idei to form Sony’s Digital Creatures Lab. Believing that robots would be commonplace in households by 2010, but aware of the shortcomings of available technology for functional uses, he decided to focus on robots for entertainment. The AIBO responded to over 100 voice commands and talked in a tonal language. Two of the first generation AIBOs exported into the USA came to New York, NY and one remains in the archives and display at Artspace Company Y LLC.\n\nLater models of AIBOs were designed jointly with prestigious Japanese designers, and continued to gain design awards. The ERS-210 design was inspired by lion cubs. The bodies of the \"ERS-3x\" series (Latte and Macaron, the round-headed AIBOs released in 2001) were designed by visual artist Katsura Moshino winning the \"Good Design Award\" The sleek and futuristic, space-exploration inspired body of the \"ERS-220\" was designed by Shoji Kawamori. winning the \"Good Design Award\" and a \"Design for Asia\" award. The ERS-7 Also won a \"Good Design Award\".\n\nAlmost ten years later, Idei's successor, Howard Stringer closed down AIBO and other robotic projects. Doi then staged a mock funeral, attended by more than 100 colleagues from Sony. At the funeral, Doi said that the Aibo was a symbol of a risk-taking spirit at Sony that was now dead.\n\nIn November 2017, Sony Corporation announced that AIBO would return with a new model that would be capable of forming an emotional bond with users.\n\nSeveral prototypes have been displayed by Sony. Early models were insect-like with six legs. The specifications and design of the 1998 prototype, described in a Sony press release, closely match those of the first generation AIBOs. Differences include the use of PC-Cards for memory (rather than MemoryStick media), the use of two batteries, and the option to use a 2-wheeled \"rolling module\" in place of legs.\n\nThe first commercially available AIBO. It has a beagle-like appearance. Sales began on 1 June 1999. There was a limited production of 3,000 for Japan and 2,000 for the USA. They were available to buy via the internet and sold out in 20 minutes after launch. It cost 250,000 YEN.\n\nThe ERS-111 was an improved version of the original AIBO, initially released in November 1999 as a limited edition model. All 3,000 units of the Japanese stock were bought within 17 seconds of launch.\n\nThe ERS-210 was designed to look like a cub. It has speech recognition capabilities. The colours were black, silver, gold, red, blue, green, white.\n\nThe ERS-300 had an \"AIBO's heart\" slogan. Original production design illustrator was Katsura Moshino. The price was 98,000 YEN. The Latte version is the low-end model and is cream-coloured and the Macaron version was black coloured. The Latte version is designed to be sweet while the Macaron version is designed to be mischievous.\n\nSilver. Headlights and LED near future-oriented design with. Design based on the concept of space exploration robot by Shoji Kawamori.\nRemote operation is possible by using the optional Wireless LAN card as well as the ERS-210 \"AIBO Navigator 2\". Height 29.6 cm, 1.5 kg weight, 1.5 hours continuous operation time, 16 degrees of freedom (drive unit), price 180 000 yen (excluding tax)\n\nVariants of ERS-210/220. Difficult to distinguish the appearance but with improved CPU. Displays affixed logo sticker \"Super Core\" at the bottom of the body. US$1299 at launch.\n\nEstimated sales for all third generation models: 40,000 to 50,000\n\nNovember 2003\nThis AIBO is regarded as the culmination of the series. The first to be explicitly a \"robot dog\". Available in white. Packaged with MIND. US$1,599 at launch.\n\nNovember 2004\nA variant of the ERS-7, packaged with MIND2. Available in black or white.\n\nOctober 2005\nA variant of the ERS-7M2, packaged with MIND3. Changed Wi-Fi. White, black, and champagne gold (called honey brown in Japan). The final model.\n\nJanuary 2018\n\nThe first model to be released since the AIBO project was discontinued in 2006. Requires an always-on internet connection to function fully and comes with an LTE SIM card and monthly subscription service to support interaction and learning in the cloud.\n\nThe humanoid QRIO robot was designed as the successor to AIBO, and runs the same base R-CODE and Aperios operating system.\n\nThe initial ERS-110 AIBO's hardware includes a 64-bit RISC processor, 16 megabytes of RAM, sensors (touch, camera, range-finder, microphone, acceleration, angular velocity), a speaker and actuators (legs, neck, mouth, tail). As the series developed, more sensors and actuators were added. Wi-Fi was available as an add on for some second-generation AIBOs. The third and final family of AIBOs, the ERS-7s, have multiple head and body sensors, clicking ear actuators, a chest-mounted proximity sensor, expressive \"Illume-Face\" and Wi-Fi.\n\nAll AIBOs were bundled with accessories including a charging station and pink ball toy. Late model ERS7's were bundled with a pink AIBone bone-shaped toy, playing cards and a charging station with pole and marker mat for autonomous docking.\n\nAll AIBOs are bundled with AIBOLife software giving the robot a personality, the ability to walk, \"see\" its environment via camera and recognize spoken commands (English and Spanish, or Japanese). AIBO's sounds were programmed by Japanese DJ/avant-garde composer Nobukazu Takemura, fusing mechanic and organic concepts. The sounds in ERS-7 Mind and custom data were composed by Masaya Matsuura, a Japanese musician and game designer.\n\nAperios is Sony's Proprietary Real-Time Operating system, used in all AIBOs, QRIO and some other consumer devices. Aperios OS was intended to be widely deployed using revolutionary real-time capabilities to handle multiple audio and visual data streams concurrently The operating system was not widely adopted, and by 2003 Sony had stopped active development with COO Kunitake Ando commenting \"Aperios was an operating system of a pre-Internet age and we decided that it isn't adequate for the future\".\n\nThe OPEN-R architecture is specific to entertainment robots. The architecture involves the use of modular hardware components, such as appendages that can be easily removed and replaced to change the shape and function of the robots, and modular software components that can be interchanged to change their behavior and movement patterns. AIBO's creator, Doi, called OPEN-R the \"masterpiece\" of the AIBO development project, arguing it would minimize the need for programming individual movements or responses, and its \"open\" nature would encourage a global community of robot specialists and programmers to add capability.\n\nFirst and second generation models of AIBO can load different software packages sold by Sony. AIBOware (a trademark of Sony corporation) is the title given to the software the AIBO runs on its pink Memory Stick. The \"Life\" AIBOware allows the robot to be raised from pup to fully grown adult while going through various stages of development as its owner interacts with it. The \"Explorer\" AIBOware allows the owner to interact with a fully mature robot able to understand (though not necessarily willing to obey) 100 voice commands. Without AIBOware, AIBOs run in \"clinic mode\" and can only perform basic actions.\n\nThird generation ERS-7 models have a sole \"Mind\" software that includes capabilities of AIBOLife and other AIBOware packages. Mind software also includes a docking process, allowing ERS-7's to recharge autonomously. Upgrades in Mind2 included the AIBO Entertainment Player, a Wi-Fi based connection to a PC. Upgrades in Mind3 included speech, blogging and autonomous room mapping.\n\nAIBO's complete vision system uses the SIFT algorithm, to recognise its charging station. The vision system is an implementation of Evolution Robotics ERVision.\n\nNotable AIBOware Software\nNotable Third Party Software\n\nInitially, access to programming capabilities was limited to Sony and organizations participating in Robocup. By reverse-engineering AIBO, users developed their own software that operated together with AIBOware such as \"DiscoAibo\" which made the robotic canine dance to music.\n\nIn a significant copyright milestone, Sony invoked the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in October 2001, and sent a cease-and-desist notice demanding that \"Aibopet\" stop distributing code that was retrieved by bypassing the copy protection mechanisms. In the face of complaints by many outraged AIBO owners, Sony backed down and subsequently released a programmer's kit for \"non-commercial\" use.\n\nThe kit was eventually expanded into three distinct tools: R-CODE, the OPEN-R SDK and the AIBO Remote Framework (ERS-7 only). These three tools are combined under the name AIBO Software Development Environment. All of these tools were free to download and could be used for commercial or non-commercial use (Except for the OPEN-R SDK, which is specifically for non-commercial use).\n\nThe OPEN-R SDK is a C++ based programming SDK, based on open-source tools (like gcc and newlib), that allows you to make software that executes on your AIBO. This SDK is considered low-level and allows you to control everything from the gain values of AIBO's actuators to retrieving AIBO's camera data and doing computer vision computations. No pre-built \"standard\" AIBO functionality is provided, such as it is with R-Code and AIBO Remote Framework. It is an excellent choice for researchers doing low-level robotic research.\n\nR-Code is a high-level scripting language for AIBO. R-Code allows you to very easily create simple programs for AIBO to execute. While it does not allow the low-level control that the OPEN-R SDK has, what it lacks in power it makes up for in simplicity. Remoting is possible via a simple terminal socket connection via WiFi. Commercial usage is allowed, and the license fee is free.\n\nR-CodePlus is a derivative of R-Code by AiboPet with several added functionalities. R-CodePlus is a superset of R-Code in terms of language, so everything written in standard R-Code will work on a R-CodePlus memorystick (for the same Model AIBO). R-CodePlus exposes some new \"basic\" AIBO functions such as simple face recognition, name registration, and camera adjustment settings. In addition to the standard R-Code terminal socket for remoting, R-CodePlus supplies a \"Telemety\" socket for several binary data transfers such as AIBO's camera image and sending/receiving sound. R-CODE has been extended to R-CODE plus by Aibopet\n\nAibnet offers a development environment for R-Code programming.\n\nSimplified drag-and-drop customizing of behavior is available via the user-created YART (\"Yet Another RCode Tool \")\n\nRemotely access capabilities of AIBO MIND including behaviors and pattern recognition from a Windows PC. Same functionality used in the Aibo Entertainment Player. The AIBO Remote Framework is a Windows PC API based on Visual C++. The Framework can be used to write code that can remotely control an AIBO running MIND2 or MIND3 Aiboware via a wireless LAN. Commercial usage is allowed, and the license fee is free.\n\nSeveral robot software development frameworks have been developed that support AIBOs, including URBI, Tekkotsu, and Pyro.\n\nAiBO+ is a replacement personality for Sony ERS-7. The project provides an AEP-like application (AiBO+ Client) to connect to the robot under Ubuntu Linux, Windows, Mac OS X, iOS and Android. The owner can control the dog, play a game and see the robot state.\n\nAIBO Control allows Android users to control AIBO ERS-7's running URBI.\n\nThe Open-R and GCC based toolchain has been updated by the community to use GCC 5.4, Binutils 2.24 and Newlib 1.15. This improvement brings the latest C++11/C++14 features and modern software to program the robot. The packaged version of the old and updated AIBO toolchain is available for Ubuntu in a PPA.\n\nAIBO's were used extensively in education. For example, Carnegie Mellon offered an AIBO-centred robotics course covering models of perception, cognition, and action for solving problems. Robotbenchmark also features an online simulation challenge based on an Aibo ERS-7 model called \"Visual Tracking\".\n\nThe AIBO has seen much use as an inexpensive platform for artificial intelligence education and research, because it integrates a computer, vision system, and articulators in a package vastly cheaper than conventional research robots. One focal point for that development has been the Robocup Leagues.\n\nThe Four-Legged League was the initial name for the RoboCup Standard Platform League, a robot soccer league in which all teams compete with identical robots. The robots operate fully autonomously, with no external control by humans nor computers. The specific AIBO version changed over time: ERS-110s (1999,2000), ERS-210 (2001-2002), ERS-210A SuperCore (2003), ERS-7 (2004-2008). The replacement and current standard platform is the humanoid NAO by Aldebaran Robotics.\n\nSony provided AIBOs, support and sponsorship to universities around the world to participate in the RoboCup autonomous soccer Four-Legged Robot Soccer League. Competing teams would program a team of AIBO robots to play games of autonomous robot soccer against other competing teams. The Four-Legged League ran from 1999 to 2008, although in the final year, many big-name universities did not compete as they had moved to the new NAO platform. The University of New South Wales was the most successful team in the League, making the final six times and winning three times.\n\nThe International AIBO Convention takes place every year at Sony Robotics Tower in the Shinjuku prefecture. The first convention took place in 1999, on May 15. It was then set to May 2 to May 4. The 2009 convention, being in its tenth year, set attendance records. The convention usually features AIBO advertisements, free posters, free accessories, freeware/open-source downloads and \"AIBO Shows\".\n\nAfter model name: body color choices; release date; units sold.\n\nEstimated sales for all first generation models: 65,000\n\nEstimated sales for all second generation models: 60,000\n\nEstimated sales for all third generation models: 40,000 to 50,000\n\n\nThe AIBO anime was based around AIBO ERS-300s, Latte, and Macaroon. The anime triggered sounds and actions from viewer's ERS-300s.\n\nThe 23-episode series was broadcast on Fuji TV on Thursdays from 22:54 to 23:00 from October 11, 2001, to March 21, 2002.\n\nWhen AIBO was introduced, \"The New Yorker\" published a cartoon by Jack Ziegler showing AIBO \"urinating\" nuts and bolts on a fire hydrant.\n\nThe AIBO ERS-210 was used in Janet Jackson's \"Doesn't Really Matter\" music video, and received increased market demand and commercial success after being featured with Jackson in the clip.\n\nIn an episode of \"Frasier\", Frasier gives his dad an AIBO ERS-210 to keep him company while he is visiting Roz in Wisconsin. There is a scene with Eddie interacting with the AIBO, while Martin Crane complains to Sony about not being able to get it to work.\n\nIn the \"South Park\" episode \"Red Sleigh Down\", Cartman spends nearly the entire episode trying to get on Santa's nice list, so that he can receive a HAIBO robot doll for Christmas, in reference to the robot dog craze of the early 2000s started by AIBO. At the episode's conclusion, Stan, Kyle, and Cartman all receive their own HAIBO dog.\n\nWhen Siri on an iOS device is asked \"Do you have a pet?\", one of the responses is \"I used to have an AIBO. But it turned on me.\"\n\nIn the film \"CJ7\", the robotic toy \"CJ1\", is probably based on the design of AIBO.\n\nIn the \"Futurama\" episode \"Jurassic Bark\", Bender is seen with a robotic dog resembling an AIBO named Robo-Puppy.\n\nA pair of robotic dogs similar in appearance to AIBO appear in \"Tokyo Jungle\", a video game published by Sony Computer Entertainment.\n\nAn AIBO ERS-210 can be seen in the title sequence of the 2017 TV adaptation of Neil Gaiman's \"American Gods\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49895047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49895047", "title": "Amplitude integrated electroencephalography", "text": "Amplitude integrated electroencephalography\n\nAmplitude integrated electroencephalography (aEEG) or cerebral function monitoring (CFM) is a technique for monitoring brain function in intensive care settings over longer periods of time than the traditional electroencephalogram (EEG), typically hours to days. By placing electrodes on the scalp of the patient, a trace of electrical activity is produced which is then displayed on a semilogarithmic graph of peak-to-peak amplitude over time; amplitude is logarithmic and time is linear. In this way, trends in electrical activity in the cerebral cortex can be interpreted to inform on events such as seizures or suppressed brain activity. aEEG is useful especially in neonatology where it can be used to aid in diagnosis of hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy (HIE), and to monitor and diagnose seizure activity.\n\nThe CFM readout offers an integrated trace in one pane and a non-integrated trace in another pane (see image). Modern machines give a readout for each hemisphere corresponding to the positions of electrodes placed on the patient's head. The characteristics of the CFM include the 'baseline' which should be more than 5 µV, the upper limit of the trace which should be more than 10 µV, and the presence of 'sleep wake cycling' whereby the trace is expected to narrow and broaden over time. Seizures appear on the trace as regions of high activity with a raised and compacted trace in the aEEG pane; this would correspond to high-amplitude, repetitive waveforms in the non-integrated pane. A low-amplitude or 'suppressed' trace is prognostically concerning as it indicates abnormally low brain activity. A further possible pattern is a 'burst suppression' trace which consists of a low-amplitude signal interspersed with periods of high activity on the aEEG readout. This also carries a poor prognosis.\n\n"}
{"id": "18732653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18732653", "title": "Anna Borkowska (Sister Bertranda)", "text": "Anna Borkowska (Sister Bertranda)\n\nMother Bertranda, O.P. (\"née\" Janina Siestrzewitowska; 1900–1988), later known as Anna Borkowska, was a Polish cloistered Dominican nun who served as the prioress of her monastery in Kolonia Wileńska near Wilno (now Pavilnys near Vilnius, Lithuania). She was a graduate of the University of Kraków who had entered the monastery after her studies. During World War II, under her leadership, the nuns of the monastery sheltered 17 young Jewish activists from Vilnius Ghetto and helped the Jewish Partisan Organization (FPO) by smuggling weapons. In recognition of this, in 1984 she was awarded the title of Righteous among the Nations by Yad Vashem.\n\nVilnius (Vilna) was taken over by the Germans on 24 June 1941, in Operation Barbarossa, and the killing of the Jews began almost immediately. Mother Betranda first inquired about saving Jews following the start of the Ponary massacre in July 1941. She initially sought to gain the support of the Wilno Catholic leadership, but they rebuffed her efforts out of fear that the Nazi German occupation forces would destroy church property and kill any Christians found to be aiding Jews.\n\nActing on her own initiative, Mother Betranda then took in 17 members of Hashomer Hatzair, a local Zionist group, and hid them within the grounds of her monastery. The activists included Abba Kovner, the movement's leader, Abraham Sutzkever, Arie Wilner and Edek Boraks. They helped the nuns with working their fields, while Kovner, realizing the goals of Hitler's Final Solution, worked on organizing a political resistance to the occupation and writing his manifesto for the later uprising. When several of her nuns objected, Mother Bertranda reportedly threatened them with expulsion from the monastery and excommunication from the faith. Some of the Hashomer Hatzair members later decided to leave their monastery hideout and to return to the Jewish Ghetto in Vilnius, where they organized an underground resistance movement, the \"Fareynikte Partizaner Organizatsye\" (FPO).\n\nSoon after that, Mother Bertranda left the monastery and went to the Ghetto to volunteer her services. She was dissuaded from this by Kovner, who asked that she organize the procurement of supplies instead. She and the other Dominican nuns then took it upon themselves to help the Jewish resistance by smuggling in arms and ammunition. The other nuns of the community included Sister Bernadeta (Julia Michrowska), Sister Cecylia (Maria Roszek), Sister Diana (Helena Frackiewicz), Sister Imelda (Maria Neugebauer), Sister Jordana (Maria Ostrejko), Sister Małgorzata (Irena Adamek) and Sister Stefania (Stanisława Bednarska). In this they became among the first to supply hand grenades and other weapons to the Vilnius Ghetto underground. Between August and September 1943, the ghetto was liquidated and some 12,000 men, women and children were deported to camps in Estonia. The uprising, organized by FPO on 1 September 1943 was crushed. The final Nazi destruction of whatever remained of the Ghetto followed.\n\nIn September 1943, Mother Bertranda was arrested by the Nazi German occupation authorities and sent to a labor camp at Perwejniszki near Kovno (, now Pravieniškės near Kaunas, Lithuania). The monastery was closed and the community of nuns was forced to disperse. After the war, Mother Bertranda asked for a dispensation from her vows and left the monastery, where she adopted the name Anna Borkowska. She reportedly remained a faithful Catholic, nonetheless.\n\nIn 1984, Borkowska, now living alone in a small apartment in Warsaw, was awarded the title of Righteous among the Nations by Yad Vashem. Abba Kovner, one of the young Jews who had been saved by Borkowska, personally presented a medal to her at a ceremony in Poland. She and [Sister] Cecylia Roszakcan were two members of this monastic community to be honored, according to the statistics given by Yad Vashem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14043526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14043526", "title": "Antonio Alberti", "text": "Antonio Alberti\n\nAntonio Alberti was an Italian painter, active mainly in the 15th century in his native city of Ferrara, as well as Bologna and Urbino.\n\nHe painted portraits and sacred subjects. For the sacristy of the church of San Bernardino, outside Urbino, he painted a \"Madonna and Child enthroned\" (1439). He painted frescoes in the Bolognini chapel at San Petronio Basilica in Bologna, consisting of incidents from the \"Passion\", \"Paradise\", and \"Inferno\" . He painted frescoes of the \"Virgin and child between saints Benedict and Sebastian\" (1433) for the inner choir of Sant' Antonio Abate in Ferrara. He had a son of the same name, who was also an artist, living in 1550. Onofrio Gabrieli and Fra Carnovale were his pupils. His grandson was Timoteo della Vite.\n"}
{"id": "13428111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13428111", "title": "Ben Goertzel", "text": "Ben Goertzel\n\nBen Goertzel (born December 8, 1966) is the founder and CEO of SingularityNET, a blockchain-based AI marketplace. Goertzel is also the chief scientist of financial prediction firm Aidyia Holdings and robotics firm Hanson Robotics; chairman of AI software company Novamente LLC, a privately held software company; chairman of the Artificial General Intelligence Society and the OpenCog Foundation; vice chairman of futurist nonprofit Humanity+; scientific advisor of biopharma firm Genescient Corp.; advisor to Singularity University; research professor in the Fujian Key Lab for Brain-Like Intelligent Systems at Xiamen University of Technology, China; chair of the Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) conference series, and an American author and researcher in the field of artificial intelligence. He was the Director of Research of the Machine Intelligence Research Institute (formerly the Singularity Institute).\n\nGoertzel is the son of Ted Goertzel, a former professor of sociology at Rutgers University. He left high school after the tenth grade to attend Bard College at Simon's Rock, where he graduated with a bachelor's degree in Quantitative Studies. Goertzel went on to obtain a Ph.D. in mathematics from Temple University in 1989. He is the Chief Scientist of Hanson Robotics, the creator of the robot Sophia.\n\nIn May 2007, Goertzel spoke at a Google Tech talk about his approach to creating Artificial General Intelligence. He defines intelligence as the ability to detect patterns in the world and in the agent itself, measurable in terms of emergent behavior of \"achieving complex goals in complex environments.\" A \"baby-like\" artificial intelligence is initialized, then trained as an agent in a simulated or virtual world such as Second Life to produce a more powerful intelligence. Knowledge is represented in a network whose nodes and links carry probabilistic truth values as well as \"attention values,\" with the attention values resembling the weights in a neural network. Several algorithms operate on this network, the central one being a combination of a probabilistic inference engine and a custom version of evolutionary programming. Goertzel claimed that this combination is able to avoid the combinatorial explosions that both these algorithms suffer from when exposed to large problems.\n\n2009: Goertzel and Hugo de Garis starred in a 45-minute documentary called \"Singularity or Bust\". \n\n2012: The documentary \"The Singularity\" by independent filmmaker Doug Wolens showcased Goertzel's vision and understanding of making general AI general thinking\"\n\n2014: Goertzel appeared on the American science documentary television series, \"Through the Wormhole\" (episode 1, season 5).\n\n2016: Goertzel starred in the British-Israeli documentary film, \"Machine of Human Dreams\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24426788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24426788", "title": "Beth Ann Bauman", "text": "Beth Ann Bauman\n\nBeth Ann Bauman is an American writer of fiction based in New York City. Bauman has published a collection of short stories, \"Beautiful Girls\" in 2003 (MacAdam/Cage), and a novel for young adults, \"Rosie and Skate\" in 2009. Her work has been published in \"The Barcelona Review\" and the anthology \"Many Lights in Many Windows\" and has also been nominated for a Pushcart Prize. She has also received fellowships from the New York Foundation of the Arts and the Jerome Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12911652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12911652", "title": "Board on Science, Technology, and Economic Policy", "text": "Board on Science, Technology, and Economic Policy\n\nThe United States National Academy of Sciences' Board on Science, Technology, and Economic Policy (STEP) is a board of the United States National Academy of Sciences.\n\nThe mandate of the Board is to integrate understanding of scientific, technological, and economic elements in the formulation of national policies affecting the economic well-being of the United States. The program’s focus is on the dynamics of the macroeconomic and microeconomic variables, their relationship to the industrial structure of the economy, effect on high-technology manufacturing and service sectors, and influence on U.S. scientific and technological advancement through examination of trade, human resources, fiscal, research and development, intellectual property and other policies. Policymakers responsible for these areas in the executive branch and Congress are the audience for the STEP Board’s work in the form of consensus reports, conferences, and workshops. The current Executive Director is Stephen A. Merrill, Ph.D. and the Board Chair is Paul Joskow, president of the Sloan Foundation.\n\nThe Academies began to address issues of U.S. competitiveness and innovation in the late 1970s and early 1980s through a series of industry studies by the NAE and broad policy studies by the Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public Policy (COSEPUP).\n\nA leading NAS economist, Dale Jorgenson, and NAE industrialists Ralph Landau and George Hatsopoulos were concerned that this work, and national innovation policy more broadly, did not sufficiently reflect the contributions economics could make to understanding of trends and policy prescriptions to improve outcomes. They proposed to the National Research Council (NRC) Governing Board of Directors of the NAS to create a new standing committee as a forum for dialogue among economists, technologists, and industrial managers to those ends. The Board on Science, Technology, and Economic Policy (STEP) was established in 1991, originally as an independent board with funding from the NRC and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Subsequently, it was combined with COSEPUP and Government-University-Industry Research Roundtable (GUIRR) in the Policy Division, at which time the Academy and Institute presidents were made ex-officio members to make the three units more similar in structure.\n\nIn composing the first slate of members, the Academies added a fourth category of expertise and experience – finance and investment – and took care to ensure that among the members were people with high-level public policy experience. Over the past 16 years the membership has included leading industrialists (Rube Mettler, Don Peterson, Bill Spencer), three Nobel Laureates (Mike Spence, Joe Stiglitz, and Jim Heckman) among many leading microeconomists, prominent venture capitalists (Burton McMurtry, Kathy Behrens, and David Morgenthaler), scientists and engineers from the Academies (George Whitesides and Vint Cerf), former policymakers (James Lynn, Mary Good, and Alan Wolff), and people whose careers have bridged the corporate and nonprofit sectors (Edward Penhoet) or industry and elective politics (Amo Houghton, Jr.). In STEP’s first decade the majority of industrialists represented heavy manufacturing and information technology. In recent years there has been an effort to recruit more senior managers from life science-based industries and services.\n\nNot coincidentally, concern about Japanese competition and fear of a progressive decline in the U.S. manufacturing base was peaking at the time STEP was created. Indeed, the perception that Japan enjoyed a broad and enduring competitive advantage from a substantially lower cost of capital was a motivating factor in establishing the Board and became the subject of its first conference and report. In the late 1990s, of course, pessimism gave way to extreme confidence in the economy, lasting until the dot-com collapse. The contemporary policy environment is again one of concern if not alarm about U.S. economic performance, although vis-à-vis different sources of competition.\n\nIn this fluctuating environment, STEP’s focus has not shifted away from the U.S. position in the global economy. Investing for Productivity and Prosperity was followed by a series of projects examining development of international technical standards and testing certification, technology policy as a source of trade friction among the industrialized countries, tax policy affecting the location of foreign direct investment and R&D performance, evaluation of U.S. and foreign government interventions in support of commercial technology development, and the effects of foreign government conditions on aerospace sales and investment. A major focus since the late 1990s has been on the reasons for the improved competitiveness of many U.S. industries and the resurgence in productivity growth, the extent to which these are accurately measured and reflected in the national economic accounts, and how they can be sustained.\n\nNevertheless, the STEP portfolio has become more diversified, with projects on the economics of K-12 education reform, impact of technology on jobs and wages, supply of IT workers, quality of innovation-related statistics, functioning of the patent system, impact of intellectual property on research, shifts in the federal research portfolio by field, financing of entrepreneurship, prizes as a tool of innovation policy, and aeronautics R&D at NASA. This diversification has been a key to STEP’s success and endurance, but the board is mindful that global competition and its effects on Americans’ employment and welfare remain the principal driver of its agenda. When, as now, public and political concern is ascendant, other institutions and others in the Academy are quickly drawn into this policy arena to compete for many of the same sources of financial support. Within the past 3 or 4 years alone nominally similar programs have been launched at the Council on Foreign Relations, Brookings Institution, Center for Strategic and International Studies, American Association for the Advancement of Science, and Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and spun off from the Progressive Policy Institute.\n\nSince nearly all of STEP’s work is microeconomic, other ways to parse STEP’s portfolio are by industrial sector and by microeconomic policy. On the first dimension, STEP has focused intensively on semiconductors, software, computing (and its component technologies), and biotechnology and given considerable attention also to aviation, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, telecommunications, metal fabrication, and finance. At the same time, STEP has done significant although by no means exhaustive work on the following microeconomic policies – tax, trade, standards, K-12 and graduate education, workforce training, intellectual property, economic statistics, and, of course, direct and indirect research and development support.\n\nAreas that have received little attention to date are agriculture, energy and power, and environmental regulation. Although these are the domains of other standing NRC units that, of course, does not preclude STEP from undertaking projects in those areas tailored to its strengths nor does it preclude collaborations. Discussions have in fact occurred with each of those units (BANR, BEES, and BEST) and led to formal collaborative proposals, but unfortunately those proposals have not attracted sponsors.\n\nEncouraging cross-disciplinary, cross-sector dialogue on issues of competitiveness and innovation was a major theme of the NRC discussions leading to the creation of STEP. The Board itself has sustained this dialogue across many changes in membership notably including the departure recently of the last original member, Dale Jorgenson. Meetings are well attended and members frequently remark on the high caliber of discussion and learning across disciplines and sectors.\n\nSTEP has extended this form of dialogue to the many ad hoc committees under its oversight. Normally, STEP study committees include 2 or 3 STEP members – a testament to the fact that many (perhaps most) projects are conceived in board discussions and members become committed to helping carry them through to fruition. In addition, an effort is made to ensure that study committee rosters recommended to the Division Chair and the President include a mix of expertise and experience similar to that on the board itself – industrial technologists, economists, financial executives, academic scientists, and former policymakers\n\nSTEP has also contributed to dialogue within the NRC. Staff are frequently asked to suggest committee members and other resources for studies in other units. Formal collaborations have involved the Science, Technology, and Law Committee, Committee on National Statistics, Computer Science and Telecommunications Board, Board on Higher Education and the Workforce, Board on Testing and Assessment, National Cancer Policy Board, and Board on Health Care Services (of the National Academies).\n\nSTEP has benefited from and exploited the microeconomic field of technology and productivity analysis that is the fairly recent legacy of Griliches, Jorgenson, Solow, Mansfield, and others as well as the work of international trade economists. But the fact is that in many of the specific policy areas of STEP work – intellectual property, standards, program evaluation, etc. – there is a serious deficit of empirical research. Rather than rely on anecdote and judgment, the Board has when possible taken the step – unusual for the Academy – of supporting small-scale original research projects, often surveys. This was done in studies of the patent system, Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program, Advanced Technology Program (ATP), and biomedical researchers’ experience with intellectual property. In all of these cases, the research results strongly influenced study committees’ findings and recommendations. That, in turn, has encouraged more research. In the case of the patent study, the Board in 2002 issued an RFP, received 80-odd proposals, and selected 9 projects for full or co-funding. This undoubtedly contributed to the subsequent flowering of empirical research on intellectual property systems and policies.\n\nMore typical of the Academy, STEP work has helped shape the agendas of investigators and research sponsors. A prime example is the 2001 workshop, Using Human Resource Data to Track Innovation, whose premise was that studying the qualifications, career paths, and activities of industrial scientists, engineers, and other professionals could reveal a great deal about innovation processes, especially those beyond the R&D stage. The workshop has shaped the subsequent work of Paula Stephan, who was commissioned to write the principal paper for the meeting, and led directly to a series of NSF workshops, other research initiatives, and efforts to improve the utility of data from the NSF surveys of PhD-holders. A community of investigators is exploring ways to match publication and patent data with NSF human resource data. Stephan attributes all of this activity directly to the seminal STEP workshop.\n\nSTEP reports have had a demonstrable impact on public policy discussions and outcomes. Examples include:\n\n\"A Patent System for the 21st Century\" (2004). In April 2004 a STEP committee chaired by Yale President Richard Levin and former Xerox CTO Mark Myers issued a final report of a broad study of how well the U.S. patent system is fulfilling its purpose of encouraging research, innovation, and the dissemination of knowledge and how it is adapting to rapid technological and economic changes. It found that while the system has shown admirable flexibility in accommodating new technologies, there is reason to be concerned about the quality of issued patents, the resources available to the US Patent and Trademark Office to keep up with the pace of technological change and volume of applications, features of U.S. law that inhibit the dissemination of information contained in patents and that raise the cost and uncertainty of litigation over patent validity and infringement, access to patented research technologies for basic non-commercial research, and redundancies and inconsistencies among national patent systems that raise the cost of global intellectual property protection. With dedicated dissemination funds provided by the NRC, a private foundation, and several companies and law firms, a very extensive outreach effort, involving public meetings across the country, was undertaken. The committee co-chairs were lead-off witnesses in Senate and House patent reform hearings in the spring of 2005 and again in 2007. Five of the report’s seven recommendations are core provisions of legislation introduced by the committee chairs in the 109th Congress and expected to be re-introduced in the 110th.\n\n\nIn part through the Board’s outreach efforts and in part because of interest abroad in the contributions of federal and state government policy to U.S. economic performance, there is a growing international audience for STEP’s work, evidenced by the high volume of visits to the website and invitations for presentations to international organizations (e.g., various committees of the OECD, parts of the European Commission, World Intellectual Property Organization, and European Patent Office), and national government officials and international academic gatherings too numerous to list. Originally confined to the industrial countries this interest has extended to the governments of and academics in the emerging economies – China, India, Brazil, Vietnam, and the former Soviet republics.\n\nSTEP has received project support from the OECD, European Commission, Industry Canada, and Embassy of the United Kingdom. A formal collaboration with two of the German economic research institutes yielded two reports, and in 1995 STEP was asked to host an international conference on technology and jobs preparatory to the G-7 Summit meeting.\n\nCongress is a principal consumer of STEP work, and the Board has conducted or is conducting three congressionally mandated projects. A fourth mandate – the ongoing evaluation of 5 agencies’ SBIR programs – followed STEP work on SBIR but has been carried out under separate oversight. Discussion is underway with members of Congress of a major study of the role of intangible assets (R&D, intellectual property, software, worker training, and organizational competence) in economic growth. Nevertheless, what will appear in final legislation or bill report language is always highly uncertain; and agency compliance with congressional study mandates is not assured. STEP has twice negotiated language with congressional sponsors for studies that were eventually included in enacted legislation and developed proposals to the executive agencies directed to contract with the Academies, but the mandates were not executed.\n"}
{"id": "4768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4768", "title": "Brit milah", "text": "Brit milah\n\nThe brit milah (, ; Ashkenazi pronunciation: , \"covenant of circumcision\"; Yiddish pronunciation: \"bris\" ) is a Jewish religious male circumcision ceremony performed by a mohel (\"circumciser\") on the eighth day of the infant's life. The \"brit milah\" is followed by a celebratory meal (\"seudat mitzvah\").\n\nAccording to the Hebrew Bible () God commanded the Biblical patriarch Abraham to be circumcised, an act to be followed by his descendants:\nAlso, provides: \"And in the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised.\"\n\nAccording to the Hebrew Bible, it was \"a reproach\" for an Israelite to be uncircumcised (Joshua 5:9.) The term \"arelim\" (\"uncircumcised\" [plural]) is used opprobriously, denoting the Philistines and other non-Israelites (I Samuel 14:6, 31:4; II Samuel 1:20) and used in conjunction with \"tameh\" (unpure) for heathen (Isaiah 52:1). The word \"arel\" (\"uncircumcised\" [singular]) is also employed for \"impermeable\" (Leviticus 26:41, \"their uncircumcised hearts\"; compare Jeremiah 9:25; Ezekiel 44:7, 9); it is also applied to the first three years' fruit of a tree, which is forbidden (Leviticus 19:23).\n\nHowever, the Israelites born in the wilderness after the Exodus from Egypt were not circumcised. Joshua 5:2–9, explains, \"all the people that came out\" of Egypt were circumcised, but those \"born in the wilderness\" were not. Therefore, Joshua, before the celebration of the Passover, had them circumcised at Gilgal specifically before they entered Canaan. Abraham, too, was circumcised when he moved into Canaan.\n\nThe prophetic tradition emphasizes that God expects people to be good as well as pious, and that non-Jews will be judged based on their ethical behavior, see Noahide Law. Thus, Jeremiah 9:25–26 says that circumcised and uncircumcised will be punished alike by the Lord; for \"all the nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in heart.\"\n\nThe penalty of non-observance is \"kareth\" (spiritual excision from the Jewish nation), as noted in . Conversion to Judaism for non-Israelites in Biblical times necessitated circumcision, otherwise one could not partake in the Passover offering (). Today, as in the time of Abraham, it is required of converts in Orthodox, Conservative and Reform Judaism. ().\n\nAs found in Genesis 17:1–14, \"brit milah\" is considered to be so important that should the eighth day fall on the Sabbath, actions that would normally be forbidden because of the sanctity of the day are permitted in order to fulfill the requirement to circumcise. The Talmud, when discussing the importance of Milah, compares it to being equal to all other mitzvot (commandments) based on the gematria for \"brit\" of 612 (Tractate Nedarim 32a).\n\nCovenants in ancient times were sometimes sealed by severing an animal, with the implication that the party who breaks the covenant will suffer a similar fate. In Hebrew, the verb meaning \"to seal a covenant\" translates literally as \"to cut\". It is presumed by Jewish scholars that the removal of the foreskin symbolically represents such a sealing of the covenant.\n\nDue to Jesus having undertaken this ceremony as a Jewish child, memory of this tradition has been preserved in traditional Christian churches according to the Gospel of Luke. The Feast of the Circumcision of Christ is kept as a feast eight days after Nativity in a number of churches including the Eastern Orthodox Church, Catholic Church, Lutheran and some Anglican Communion churches. In Orthodox Christian tradition, children are officially named on the eighth day after birth with special naming prayers.\n\nSignificantly, the tradition of baptism universally replaced circumcision among Christians as the primary rite of passage as found in Paul's Epistle to the Colossians and in Acts of the Apostles.\n\nA mohel is a Jew trained in the practice of \"brit milah\", the \"covenant of circumcision.\" According to traditional Jewish law, in the absence of a grown free Jewish male expert, anyone who has the required skills is also authorized to perform the circumcision, provided that they are Jewish. However, most streams of non-Orthodox Judaism allow female mohels, called \"mohalot\" (, plural of \"mohelet\", feminine of \"mohel\"), without restriction. In 1984, Deborah Cohen became the first certified Reform mohelet; she was certified by the Berit Mila program of Reform Judaism.\n\nIt is customary for the brit to be held in a synagogue, but it can also be held at home or any other suitable location. The brit is performed on the eighth day from the baby's birth, taking into consideration that according to the Jewish calendar, the day begins at the sunset of the day before. If the baby is born on Sunday before sunset, the Brit will be held the following Sunday. However, if the baby is born on Sunday night after sunset, the Brit is on the following Monday. The brit takes place on the eighth day following birth even if that day is Shabbat or a holiday. A brit is traditionally performed in the morning, but it may be performed any time during daylight hours.\n\nThe Talmud explicitly instructs that a boy must not be circumcised if he had two brothers who died due to complications arising from their circumcisions, and Maimonides says that this excluded paternal half-brothers. This may be due to a concern about hemophilia.\n\nAn Israeli study found a high rate of urinary tract infections if the bandage is left on too long.\n\nIf the child is born prematurely or has other serious medical problems, the brit milah will be postponed until the doctors and mohel deem the child strong enough.\n\nIn recent years, the circumcision of adult Jews who were not circumcised as infants has become more common than previously thought. In such cases, the brit milah will be done at the earliest date that can be arranged. The actual circumcision will be private, and other elements of the ceremony (e.g., the celebratory meal) may be modified to accommodate the desires of the one being circumcised.\n\nMost prominent \"acharonim\" rule that the \"mitzvah\" of brit milah lies in the pain it causes, and anesthetic, sedation, or ointment should generally not be used. However, it is traditionally common to feed the infant a drop of wine or other sweet liquid to soothe him.\n\nEliezer Waldenberg, Yechiel Yaakov Weinberg, Shmuel Wosner, Moshe Feinstein and others agree that the child should not be sedated, although pain relieving ointment may be used under certain conditions; Shmuel Wosner particularly asserts that the act ought to be painful, per Psalms 44:23.\n\nRegarding an adult circumcision, pain is ideal, but not mandatory.\n\nIn a letter to the editor published in \"The New York Times\" on January 3, 1998, Rabbi Moshe David Tendler disagrees with the above and writes, \"It is a biblical prohibition to cause anyone unnecessary pain\". Rabbi Tendler recommends the use of an analgesic cream. Lidocaine should not be used, however, because Lidocaine has been linked to several pediatric near-death episodes.\n\nThe title of \"kvater\" among Ashkenazi Jews is for the person who carries the baby from the mother to the father, who in turn carries him to the \"mohel.\" This honor is usually given to a couple without children, as a merit or \"segula\" (efficacious remedy) that they should have children of their own. The origin of the term is Middle High German \"gevater(e)\" (\"godfather\").\n\nAfter the ceremony, a celebratory meal takes place. At the \"birkat hamazon\", additional introductory lines, known as \"Nodeh Leshimcha\", are added. These lines praise God and request the permission of God, the Torah, Kohanim and distinguished people present to proceed with the grace. When the four main blessings are concluded, special \"ha-Rachaman\" prayers are recited. They request various blessings by God that include:\n\nAt the neonatal stage, the inner preputial epithelium is still linked with the surface of the glans.\nThe \"mitzvah\" is executed only when this epithelium is either removed, or permanently peeled back to uncover the glans.\nOn medical circumcisions performed by surgeons, the epithelium is removed along with the foreskin, to prevent post operative penile adhesion and its complications.\nHowever, on ritual circumcisions performed by a mohel, the epithelium is most commonly peeled off only after the foreskin has been amputated. This procedure is called \"priah\" (), which means: 'uncovering'. The main goal of \"priah\" (also known as \"bris periah\"), is to remove as much of the inner layer of the foreskin as possible and prevent the movement of the shaft skin, what creates the look and function of what is known as a \"low and tight\" circumcision.\n\nAccording to Rabbinic interpretation of traditional Jewish sources, the 'priah' has been performed as part of the Jewish circumcision since the Israelites first inhabited the Land of Israel.\nHowever, the \"Oxford Dictionary of the Jewish Religion\", states that many Hellenistic Jews attempted to restore their foreskins, and that similar action was taken during the Hadrianic persecution, a period in which a prohibition against circumcision was issued. Thus, the writers of the dictionary hypothesize that the more severe method practiced today was probably begun in order to prevent the possibility of restoring the foreskin after circumcision, and therefore the rabbis added the requirement of cutting the foreskin in periah. The frenulum may also be cut away at the same time, in a procedure called frenectomy.\nAccording to Shaye J. D. Cohen, in Why Aren't Jewish Women Circumcised?: Gender and Covenant in Judaism, pg 25, the Torah only commands circumcision (milah.) David Gollaher has written that the rabbis added the procedure of priah to discourage men from trying to restore their foreskins: ‘Once established, priah was deemed essential to circumcision; if the mohel failed to cut away enough tissue, the operation was deemed insufficient to comply with God's covenant’ and ‘Depending on the strictness of individual rabbis, boys (or men thought to have been inadequately cut) were subjected to additional operations.’\nThe guard (top center) is slid over the foreskin as close to the glans as possible to allow for maximum removal of the former without any injury to the latter. The scalpel is used to detach the foreskin, and the underlying blue bag is a sterilization pouch for the metal tools. The tube (center left) was used for \"metzitzah\"\nIn addition to ' (the actual circumcision) and ', mentioned above, the Talmud (Mishnah Shabbat 19:2) mentions a third step, \"\", translated as suction, as one of the steps involved in the circumcision rite. The Talmud writes that a \"Mohel (Circumciser) who does not suck creates a danger, and should be dismissed from practice\". Rashi on that Talmudic passage explains that this step is in order to draw some blood from deep inside the wound to prevent danger to the baby.\nThere are other modern antiseptic and antibiotic techniques—all used as part of the \"brit milah\" today—which many say accomplish the intended purpose of \"metzitzah\", however, since \"metzitzah\" is one of the four steps to fulfill Mitzvah, it continues to be practiced by many Orthodox and Hassidic Jews.\n\nThe ancient method of performing \"metzitzah\"—\"metzitzah b'peh\", or oral suction—has become controversial. The process has the \"mohel\" place his mouth directly on the circumcision wound to draw blood away from the cut. The majority of Jewish circumcision ceremonies do not use metzitzah b'peh, but some Haredi Jews use it. It has been documented that the practice poses a serious risk of spreading herpes to the infant. Proponents maintain that there is no conclusive evidence that links herpes to \"Metzitza\", and that attempts to limit this practice infringe on religious freedom.\n\nThe practice has become a controversy in both secular and Jewish medical ethics. The ritual of \"metzitzah\" is found in Mishnah Shabbat 19:2, which lists it as one of the four steps involved in the circumcision rite. Rabbi Moses Sofer (1762–1839) observed that the Talmud states that the rationale for this part of the ritual was hygienic — i.e., to protect the health of the child. The Chasam Sofer issued a leniency (Heter) that some consider to have been conditional to perform \"metzitzah\" with a sponge to be used instead of oral suction in a letter to his student, Rabbi Lazar Horowitz of Vienna. This letter was never published among Rabbi Sofer's responsa but rather in the secular journal \"Kochvei Yitzchok.\" along with letters from Dr. Wertheimer, the chief doctor of the Viennese General Hospital. It relates the story that a mohel (who was suspected of transmitting herpes via metzizah to infants) was checked several times and never found to have signs of the disease and that a ban was requested because of the \"possibility of future infections\". Moshe Schick (1807–1879), a student of Moses Sofer, states in his book of Responsa, \"She’eilos u’teshuvos Maharam Schick\" (Orach Chaim 152,) that Moses Sofer gave the ruling in that specific instance only because the mohel refused to step down and had secular Government connections that prevented his removal in favor of another mohel and the Heter may not be applied elsewhere. He also states (\"Yoreh Deah\" 244) that the practice is possibly a Sinaitic tradition, i.e., Halacha l'Moshe m'Sinai. Other sources contradict this claim, with copies of Moses Sofer's responsa making no mention of the legal case or of his ruling applying in only one situation. Rather, that responsa makes quite clear that \"metzizah\" was a health measure and should never be employed where there is a health risk to the infant.\n\nChaim Hezekiah Medini, after corresponding with the greatest Jewish sages of the generation, concluded the practice to be Halacha l'Moshe m'Sinai and elaborates on what prompted Moses Sofer to give the above ruling. He tells the story that a student of Moses Sofer, Lazar Horowitz, Chief Rabbi of Vienna at the time and author of the responsa \"Yad Elazer\", needed the ruling because of a governmental attempt to ban circumcision completely if it included \"metztitzah b'peh.\" He therefore asked Sofer to give him permission to do \"brit milah\" without \"metzitzah b’peh.\" When he presented the defense in secular court, his testimony was erroneously recorded to mean that Sofer stated it as a general ruling. The Rabbinical Council of America, (RCA) which claims to be the largest American organization of Orthodox rabbis, published an article by mohel Dr Yehudi Pesach Shields in its summer 1972 issue of Tradition magazine, calling for the abandonment of Metzitzah b'peh. Since then the RCA has issued an opinion that advocates methods that do not involve contact between the mohel's mouth and the open wound, such as the use of a sterile syringe, thereby eliminating the risk of infection. According to the Chief Rabbinate of Israel and the Edah HaChareidis \"metzitzah b'peh\" should still be performed.\n\nThe practice of \"metzitzah b'peh\" was alleged to pose a serious risk in the transfer of herpes from mohelim to eight Israeli infants, one of whom suffered brain damage. When three New York City infants contracted herpes after \"metzizah b'peh\" by one \"mohel\" and one of them died, New York authorities took out a restraining order against the \"mohel\" requiring use of a sterile glass tube, or pipette. The mohel's attorney argued that the New York Department of Health had not supplied conclusive medical evidence linking his client with the disease. In September 2005, the city withdrew the restraining order and turned the matter over to a rabbinical court. Dr. Thomas Frieden, the Health Commissioner of New York City, wrote, \"There exists no reasonable doubt that ‘metzitzah b'peh’ can and has caused neonatal herpes infection...The Health Department recommends that infants being circumcised not undergo metzitzah b'peh.\" In May 2006, the Department of Health for New York State issued a protocol for the performance of metzitzah b'peh. Dr. Antonia C. Novello, Commissioner of Health for New York State, together with a board of rabbis and doctors, worked, she said, to \"allow the practice of metzizah b'peh to continue while still meeting the Department of Health's responsibility to protect the public health.\" Later in New York City in 2012 a 2-week-old baby died of herpes because of metzitzah b'peh.\n\nIn three medical papers done in Israel, Canada, and the USA, oral suction following circumcision was suggested as a cause in 11 cases of neonatal herpes. Researchers noted that prior to 1997, neonatal herpes reports in Israel were rare, and that the late incidences were correlated with the mothers carrying the virus themselves. Rabbi Doctor Mordechai Halperin implicates the \"better hygiene and living conditions that prevail among the younger generation\", which lowered to 60% the rate of young Israeli Chareidi mothers who carry the virus. He explains that an \"absence of antibodies in the mothers’ blood means that their newborn sons received no such antibodies through the placenta, and therefore are vulnerable to infection by HSV-1.\"\n\nBecause of the risk of infection, some rabbinical authorities have ruled that the traditional practice of direct contact should be replaced by using a sterile tube between the wound and the mohel's mouth, so there is no direct oral contact. The Rabbinical Council of America, the largest group of Modern Orthodox rabbis, endorses this method. The RCA paper states: \"\"Rabbi Schachter even reports that Rav Yosef Dov Soloveitchik reports that his father, Rav Moshe Soloveitchik, would not permit a mohel to perform metzitza be’peh with direct oral contact, and that his grandfather, Rav Chaim Soloveitchik, instructed mohelim in Brisk not to do metzitza be’peh with direct oral contact. However, although Rav Yosef Dov Soloveitchik also generally prohibited metzitza be’peh with direct oral contact, he did not ban it by those who insisted upon it...\". \" The sefer Mitzvas Hametzitzah by Rabbi Sinai Schiffer of Baden, Germany, states that he is in possession of letters from 36 major Russian (Lithuanian) rabbis that categorically prohibit Metzitzah with a sponge and require it to be done orally. Among them is Rabbi Chaim Halevi Soloveitchik of Brisk.\n\nIn September 2012, the New York Department of Health unanimously ruled that the practice of metztizah b'peh should require informed consent from the parent or guardian of the child undergoing the ritual. Prior to the ruling, several hundred rabbis, including Rabbi David Neiderman, the executive director of the United Jewish Organization of Williamsburg, signed a declaration stating that they would not inform parents of the potential dangers that came with metzitzah b'peh, even if informed consent became law.\n\nIn a motion for preliminary injunction with intent to sue, filed against New York City Department of Health & Mental Hygiene, affidavits by Awi Federgruen, Brenda Breuer, and Daniel S. Berman, argued that the study on which the department passed its conclusions is flawed.\n\nThe “informed consent” regulation was challenged in court. In January 2013 the U.S. District court ruled that the law did not specifically target religion and therefore must not pass strict scrutiny.\n\nThe ruling was appealed to the Court of Appeals.\n\nOn August 15, 2014 the Second Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decision by the lower court, and ruled that the regulation does have to be reviewed under strict scrutiny to determine whether it infringes on Orthodox Jews' freedom of religion.\n\nOn September 9, 2015 after coming to an agreement with the community The New York City Board of Health voted to repeal the informed consent regulation.\n\nA brit milah is more than circumcision, it is a sacred ritual in Judaism, as distinguished from its non-ritual requirement in Islam. One ramification is that the brit is not considered complete unless a drop of blood is actually drawn. The standard medical methods of circumcision through constriction do not meet the requirements of the halakhah for brit milah, because they cause hemostasis, \"i.e.\", they stop the flow of blood. Moreover, circumcision alone, in the absence of the brit milah ceremony, does not fulfill the requirements of the mitzvah. Therefore, in cases where a Jew who was circumcised outside of a brit milah, an already-circumcised convert, or an aposthetic (born without a foreskin) individual, the mohel draws a symbolic drop of blood (, ) from the penis at the point where the foreskin would have been or was attached.\n\nA \"Milah L'shem giur\" is a \"Circumcision for the purpose of conversion\". In Orthodox Judaism, this procedure is usually done by adoptive parents for adopted boys who are being converted as part of the adoption or by families with young children converting together. It is also required for adult converts who were not previously circumcised, e.g. those born in countries where circumcision at birth is not common. The conversion of a minor is valid in both Orthodox and Conservative Judaism until a child reaches the age of majority (13 for a boy, 12 for a girl); at that time the child has the option of renouncing his conversion and Judaism, and the conversion will then be considered retroactively invalid. He must be informed of his right to renounce his conversion if he wishes. If he does not make such a statement, it is accepted that the boy is halakhically Jewish. Orthodox rabbis will generally not convert a non-Jewish child raised by a mother who has not converted to Judaism.\n\nThe laws of conversion and conversion-related circumcision in Orthodox Judaism have numerous complications, and authorities recommend that a rabbi be consulted well in advance.\n\nIn Conservative Judaism, the Milah l'Shem giur procedure is also performed for a boy whose mother has not converted, but with the intention that the child be raised Jewish. This conversion of a child to Judaism without the conversion of the mother is allowed by Conservative interpretations of halakha. Conservative Rabbis will authorize it only under the condition that the child be raised as a Jew in a single-faith household. Should the mother convert, and if the boy has not yet reached his third birthday, the child may be immersed in the mikveh with the mother, after the mother has already immersed, to become Jewish. If the mother does not convert, the child may be immersed in a mikveh, or body of natural waters, to complete the child's conversion to Judaism. This can be done before the child is even one year old. If the child did not immerse in the mikveh, or the boy was too old, then the child may choose of their own accord to become Jewish at age 13 as a Bar Mitzvah, and complete the conversion then.\n\nWhere the procedure was performed but not followed by immersion or other requirements of the conversion procedure (e.g., in Conservative Judaism, where the mother has not converted), if the boy chooses to complete the conversion at Bar Mitzvah, a \"Milah l'shem giur\" performed when the boy was an infant removes the obligation to undergo either a full brit milah or \"hatafat dam brit\".\n\nNowadays it is generally assumed that Judaism adopted the practice of circumcision from neighboring cultures; their reasons for performing the act remain to be studied.\n\nIn \"Of the Special Laws, Book 1\", the Jewish philosopher Philo (20 BCE – CE 50) gives six reasons for the practice of circumcision. He attributes four of the reasons to \"men of divine spirit and wisdom.\" These include the idea that circumcision:\n\nTo these, Philo added two of his own reasons, including the idea that circumcision\n\nRabbi Saadia Gaon considers something to be \"complete,\" if it lacks nothing, but also has nothing that is unneeded. He regards the foreskin an unneeded organ that God created in man, and so by amputating it, the man is completed.\n\nMaimonides (Moses ben Maimon \"Rambam\", CE 1135–1204), who apart from being a great Torah scholar was also a physician and philosopher, argued that circumcision serves as a common bodily sign to members of the same faith. He also asserted that the main purpose of the act is to repress sexual pleasure, with the strongest reason being that it is difficult for a woman to separate from an uncircumcised man with whom she has had sex.\n\nThe author of Sefer ha-Chinuch provides three reasons for the practice of circumcision:\n\nTalmud professor Daniel Boyarin offered two explanations for circumcision. One is that it is a literal inscription on the Jewish body of the name of God in the form of the letter \"yud\" (from \"yesod\"). The second is that the act of bleeding represents a feminization of Jewish men, significant in the sense that the covenant represents a marriage between Jews and (a symbolically male) God.\n\nThe Reform societies established in Frankfurt and Berlin regarded circumcision as barbaric and wished to abolish it. However, while prominent rabbis such as Abraham Geiger believed the ritual to be barbaric and outdated, they refrained from instituting any change in this matter. In 1843, when a father in Frankfurt refused to circumcise his son, rabbis of all shades in Germany stated it was mandated by Jewish law; even Samuel Holdheim affirmed this. By 1871, Reform rabbinic leadership in Germany reasserted \"the supreme importance of circumcision in Judaism\", while affirming the traditional viewpoint that non-circumcised are Jews nonetheless. Although the issue of circumcision of converts continues to be debated, the necessity of Brit Milah for Jewish infant boys has been stressed in every subsequent Reform rabbis manual or guide. Since 1984 Reform Judaism has trained and certified over 300 of their own practicing \"mohalim\" in this ritual.\n\nA growing number of contemporary Jews and Intactivist Jewish groups in the United States, United Kingdom, and Israel, both religious and secular, choose not to circumcise their sons. Among the reasons for their choice are the claims that circumcision is a form of child abuse that involves genital mutilation forced on men and violence against helpless infants, a violation of children's rights, and the fact that circumcision is a dangerous, unnecessary, painful, traumatic and stressful event for the child, which can cause even further psychophysical complications down the road, including serious disability and even death. They are assisted by a small number of Reform, Liberal, and Reconstructionist rabbis, and have developed a welcoming ceremony that they call the \"Brit shalom\" (\"Covenant [of] Peace\") for such children, also accepted by Humanistic Judaism.\n\nThe ceremony of \"Brit shalom\" is not officially approved of by the Reform or Reconstructionist rabbinical organizations, who make the recommendation that male infants should be circumcised, though the issue of converts remains controversial and circumcision of converts is not mandatory in either movement.\n\nThe connection of the Reform movement to an anti-circumcision, pro-symbolic stance is a historical one. From the early days of the movement in Germany and Eastern Europe, some classical Reformers hoped to replace ritual circumcision \"with a symbolic act, as has been done for other bloody practices, such as the sacrifices\". In the US, an official Reform resolution in 1893 announced converts are no longer mandated to undergo the ritual, and this ambivalence towards the practice has carried over to classical-minded Reform Jews today. In Elyse Wechterman's essay \"A Plea for Inclusion\", she argues that, even in the absence of circumcision, committed Jews should never be turned away, especially by a movement \"where no other ritual observance is mandated\". She goes on to advocate an alternate covenant ceremony, \"brit atifah\", for both boys and girls as a welcoming ritual into Judaism. With a continuing negativity towards circumcision still present within a minority of modern-day Reform, Judaic scholar Jon Levenson has warned that if they \"continue to judge \"brit milah\" to be not only medically unnecessary but also brutalizing and mutilating ... the abhorrence of it expressed by some early Reform leaders will return with a vengeance\", proclaiming that circumcision will be \"the latest front in the battle over the Jewish future in America\".\n\nMany European Jewish fathers during the nineteenth century chose not to circumcise their sons, including Theodor Herzl. However, unlike many other forms of religious observance, it remained one of the last rituals Jewish communities could enforce. In most of Europe, both the government and the unlearned Jewish masses believed circumcision to be a rite akin to baptism, and the law allowed communities not to register uncircumcised children as Jewish. This legal maneuver spurred several debates addressing the advisibility of its use, since many parents later chose to convert to Christianity. In early 20th-century Russia, Chaim Soloveitchik advised his colleagues to reject this measure, stating that uncircumcised Jewish males are no less Jewish than Jews who violate other commandments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22611959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22611959", "title": "Capital punishment in North Korea", "text": "Capital punishment in North Korea\n\nCapital punishment is a legal and often-used form of punishment in North Korea for many offences, such as grand theft, murder, rape, drug smuggling, treason, espionage, political dissidence, defection, piracy, consumption of media not approved by the government and proselytizing religious beliefs that contradict practiced \"Juche\" ideology. Current working knowledge of the topic depends heavily on the accounts of defectors (both relatives of victims, and former members of the government). Executions are mostly carried out by firing squad, hanging or decapitation in public, making North Korea one of the last four countries to still perform public executions, the other three being Iran, Saudi Arabia and Somalia.\n\nThe South Korean based Database Center for North Korean Human Rights has collected testimony on 1,193 historic executions in North Korea to 2009. Amnesty International reported that there were 105 executions between 2007 and 2012. The \"Foreign Policy\" periodical estimated there were 60 executions in 2010. In October 2001, the North Korean government told the UN Human Rights Committee that only 13 executions had occurred since 1998 and that no public execution had occurred since 1992.\n\nOn November 3, 2013, according to a JoongAng Ilbo report, at least 80 people were publicly executed for minor offenses. The executions were said to be carried out simultaneously in Wonsan, Chongjin, Sariwon, Pyongsong and three other North Korean cities for crimes such as watching South Korean movies, distributing pornography or possessing a Bible. According to a witness from Wonsan, 10,000 residents were forced to watch when eight people were machine-gunned to death at the local Shinpoong stadium.\n\nOn December 13, 2013, North Korean state media announced the execution of Jang Sung-taek, the uncle by marriage of North Korea's leader at the time, Kim Jong-un. The South Korean National Intelligence Service believes that two of his closest aides, Lee Yong-ha and Jang Soo-keel, were executed in mid-November. According to a South Korean newspaper, Jang's nephew, O Sang-hon, was executed by being burnt alive with a flame thrower.\n\nIn 2014 the United Nations Human Rights Council created a Commission of inquiry on human rights in the DPRK, investigating and documenting many instances of executions carried out with or without trial, publicly or secretly, in response to political and other crimes that are often not among the most serious. The Commission determined that these systematic acts, including extermination and murder, rise to the level of crimes against humanity.\n\nNorth Korea resumed public executions in October 2007 after they had declined in the years following 2000 amidst international criticism. Prominent executed criminals include officials convicted of drug trafficking and embezzlement. Common criminals convicted of crimes such as murder, robbery, rape, drug dealing, smuggling, piracy, vandalism, etc. have also been reported to be executed, mostly by firing squad. The country does not publicly release national crime statistics or reports on the levels of crimes. , North Korea is one of four countries carrying out executions in public, the other three being Iran, Saudi Arabia and Somalia.\n\nIn October 2007, a South Pyongan province factory chief convicted of making international phone calls from 13 phones he installed in his factory basement was executed by firing squad in front of a crowd of 150,000 people in a stadium, according to a report from a South Korean aid agency called Good Friends. Good Friends also reported that six were killed in the rush as spectators left. In another instance, 15 people were publicly executed for crossing the border into China.\n\nA U.N. General Assembly committee has adopted a draft resolution, co-sponsored by more than 50 countries, expressing \"very serious concern\" at reports of widespread human rights violations in North Korea, including public executions. North Korea has condemned the draft, saying it is inaccurate and biased, but it was still sent to the then 192-member General Assembly for a final vote.\n\nIn 2011, two people were executed in front of 500 spectators for handling propaganda leaflets floated across the border from South Korea, apparently as part of a campaign by former North Korean leader Kim Jong-il to tighten ideological control as he groomed his youngest son as the eventual successor.\n\nAmnesty International says torture and executions are widespread in political prisons in North Korea. Testimonies describe secret and public executions in North Korean prisons by firing squad, decapitation or by hanging. Executions are used as a means of deterrence, often accompanied by torture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42647438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42647438", "title": "Chandra Mohan Sharma", "text": "Chandra Mohan Sharma\n\nChandra Mohan Sharma (born 1976) is an Indian social activist, who used the Right to Information (RTI) act to fight against illegal encroachments of government land. He was known for his campaign against the land mafia in NOIDA and Delhi region. In 2014, he was arrested, after he killed a homeless man and faked his own death. He was one of the early members of the Anna Hazare-led 2011 anti-corruption movement, and later the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).\n\nSharma was a part-time RTI activist. He worked as an employee at Honda Siel manufacturing unit at Greater Noida, in the maintenance department. He had been living in Greater Noida for over 12 years. As an activist, he filed around 300 RTI applications to expose the illegal land encroachment in the Noida-Delhi region. Sharma also filed RTI applications pertaining to other issues. For example, in 2011, he had filed an RTI against illegal fireworks sales in Chandigarh.\n\nHe was one of the early members of the Anna Hazare-led 2011 anti-corruption movement, and later the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).\n\nSharma lived with his wife Savita and had an unhappy married life . In 2014, he decided to fake his own death so that he could start a new life with his 25-year-old girlfriend Preeti Nagar, who lived in the same neighbourhood. He convinced his brother-in-law Videsh to help him by suggesting that Savita would get money from insurance policies after his staged death. His employer Honda was obliged to pay his family 3,600,000 in case of his death; he had another life insurance policy worth 300,000.\n\nIn April 2014, Sharma filed an RTI case against the alleged illegal encroachments on a temple land in Kasna village in Greater Noida. He claimed that he received threats to his life due to this, and filed a First Information Report (FIR) on 29 April, naming several persons for the threats. He became friendly with a mentally unstable homeless who used to roam around in the area of his residence. On 1 May 2014, Sharma strangled the homeless man using a belt, with Videsh's help. The two put the dead body on the driver's seat of Sharma's Chevrolet Aveo, poured three litres of petrol on it, and set the car on fire on a desolate stretch near Eldeco Crossing in Greater Noida. By the time the firefighters arrived, the car had been badly burnt and the dead body had been charred beyond recognition. The car windows and doors were locked, and had to be broken open.\n\nMeanwhile, Sharma's family tried to call him, but his mobile phone was unreachable. In the morning, Sharma's relatives identified the body as his, through the car's license plate. The police initially suspected that Sharma's car had caught fire, and he couldn't open the door due to a malfunction of the vehicle's central locking. However, Sharma's relatives alleged that he was murdered for fighting against the land mafia, and accused the police of not acting on the FIR he had filed before his death. On complaint of a family member, the police lodged a murder case against five people at the Kasna police station.\n\nSharma's wife Savita was the secretary of the western Uttar Pradesh wing of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). On 2 May, the AAP demanded a probe in the alleged murder, and also asked the state government to reprimand the police for their alleged laxity. Two days later, the AAP members organised a candle march in Greater Noida, and shouted slogans against the police. They condemned the alleged police apathy, and threatened to intensify their stir if no arrests were made in the case. The party's leader Arvind Kejriwal sought a speedy probe into the alleged murder.\n\nImmediately after staging his own death, Sharma travelled to Bangalore by train. Subsequently, he assumed a new identity as \"Nitin Sharma\" and shaved his head. He managed to get a job at the Honda plant in Narsapur (Kolar district, Karnataka), with help of forged marksheets and past work experience. Meanwhile, Honda paid 2,000,000 to Sharma's family.\n\nOn 6 June, around a month after the incident, Sharma's girlfriend Preeti came to Kolar to live with him. Her family filed a missing person report. The police didn't know about the relationship between the two at this time, but while investigating the case, they found that the SIM card of her mobile was registered in Sharma's name. By August 2014, Sharma had started finding his new life with Preeti financially taxing. He, therefore, made anonymous calls to her family, telling them about her location and asking them to take her back. The police traced the three calls made between 9 and 13 August to a PCO in Bangalore, which is located at a distance of 50 km from the Honda plant in Narsapur. The investigators were told that a man in Honda uniform had made the calls. Using the CCTV footage and the Honda plant's employee records, they identified the caller as Chandra Mohan Sharma. When confronted, Sharma claimed that his name was Nitin and he was a native of Hisar, Haryana. However, his real identity was confirmed by a tattoo on his hand with the names of his wife and children.\n\nSharma was arrested on 27 August, in Bangalore. The police also found Preeti, and the two were brought to Noida. He admitted that he had murdered a homeless man to stage his own death.\n"}
{"id": "45437329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45437329", "title": "Damage (Marvel Comics)", "text": "Damage (Marvel Comics)\n\nDamage (Jaime Ortiz) is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is an enemy of the Punisher and Wolverine.\n\nCreated by Carl Potts and Jim Lee, the character made his first appearance in \"The Punisher War Journal\" Vol. 1, #8 (September 1989),\n\nDamage's first appearance was as a gang leader in \"The Punisher War Journal\" Vol. 1, #8. After nearly dying in that issue, the character was rebuilt into a cyborg in a story arc that lasted from \"The Punisher War Journal\" Vol. 1, #17-20 to \"Wolverine and The Punisher: Damaging Evidence\" Vol. 1, #1-3.\n\nDamage received a profile in \"Marvel Encyclopedia\" #5, which revealed his real name is Jaime Ortiz.\n\nThe head of a Manhattan street gang known as the Bunsen Burners, Damage became aware that the Punisher was after him, so he decided to make a preemptive strike against the vigilante by hijacking or destroying his Battle Van. While his underlings were killed by the Battle Van's automated defenses, Damage made it into the vehicle, where he was ensnared and crippled by its mechanical tentacles and coils. The trapped Damage was later found by the Punisher, who dropped him off at a hospital, having concluded that letting Damage live out the rest of his life in the mangled state he was in was punishment enough for him.\n\nThe Arranger, having been given the assignment of finding and recruiting new assassins for the Kingpin, discovered Damage through a newspaper article, and arranged for him to be moved to a private clinic, where surgeons set about reconstructing him into a cyborg. When Damage began to die on the operating table, the Arranger inspired him to continue fighting for survival by reminding him of his hatred for the Punisher.\n\nWhen Damage's transformation was completed, he was further augmented by technology supplied by Donald Pierce, and made to resemble the Punisher, in order to frame him for a series of murders. The killings drew the attention of Wolverine, who tracked Damage down to a chemical plant, where the two fought. Damage had the upper hand until the Punisher, who was preoccupied with the Sniper, appeared, and destroyed Damage by setting him ablaze, and knocking him into a vat, which exploded. The Kingpin had Damage's remains recovered, and sent them to Pierce, along with fifty million dollars to pay for his reconstruction.\n\nAs a cyborg, Damage possessed superhuman strength and durability, as well as numerous retractable weapons such as a grenade launcher, a flamethrower, and a minigun. He also had infrared vision, and could electrocute others by touching them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1666780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1666780", "title": "David Ferrie", "text": "David Ferrie\n\nDavid William Ferrie (March 28, 1918 – February 22, 1967) was an American pilot who was alleged by New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison to have been involved in a conspiracy to assassinate President John F. Kennedy. Garrison also alleged that Ferrie knew Lee Harvey Oswald. Ferrie denied any involvement in a conspiracy and said he never knew Oswald. Decades later, photos emerged establishing that Ferrie had been in the same Civil Air Patrol unit as Oswald in the 1950s, but critics have argued this does not prove that either Ferrie or Oswald was involved in an assassination plot.\n\nFerrie was born in Cleveland, Ohio. A Roman Catholic, Ferrie attended St. Ignatius High School, John Carroll University, St. Mary's Seminary, where he studied for the priesthood, and Baldwin-Wallace College. He next spent three years at the St. Charles Seminary in Carthagena, Ohio. He suffered from alopecia areata, a rare skin condition, which results in the loss of body hair and whose severity increases with age. Later in life, to compensate for his hair loss, Ferrie wore a reddish homemade wig and fake eyebrows.\n\nIn 1944 Ferrie left St. Charles because of \"emotional instability.\" He obtained a pilot's license and began teaching aeronautics at Cleveland's Benedictine High School. He was fired from the school for several infractions, including taking boys to a house of prostitution. He then became an insurance inspector and, in 1951, moved to New Orleans where he worked as a pilot for Eastern Air Lines, until losing his job in August 1961, after being arrested twice on morals charges.\n\nFerrie was involved with the Civil Air Patrol in several ways: He started as a Senior Member (an adult member) with the Fifth Cleveland Squadron at Hopkins Airport in 1947. When he moved to New Orleans, he transferred to the New Orleans Cadet Squadron at Lakefront Airport. There he served as an instructor, and later as the Commander. After a Ferrie-trained cadet pilot perished in a December 1954 crash, Ferrie's annual re-appointment was declined. He was asked to be a guest aerospace education instructor at a smaller squadron at Moisant Airport, and lectured there from June to September 1955. On July 27, 1955, 15-year-old Lee Harvey Oswald joined this squadron.\n\nIn March 1958, a former cadet-turned-commander invited Ferrie back to the New Orleans Cadet Squadron. Ferrie served unofficially for a time and was reinstated as Executive Officer in September 1959. Ferrie quit the squadron in June 1960 after a disagreement during a bivouac. In September 1960, he started his own unofficial squadron, called the Metairie Falcon Cadet Squadron. An offshoot of this group was the Internal Mobile Security Unit, a group formed for the fight against Fidel Castro's Cuba. Over the years, he used both his official and unofficial squadrons to develop improper relations with boys ranging in age from 14 to 18, and his August 1961 arrests caused the Falcons to fold.\n\nFerrie described himself as a liberal on civil rights issues, but he was \"rabidly anti-Communist\", often accusing previous U.S. Presidential administrations of \"sell-outs\" to communism. Ferrie initially supported Fidel Castro's campaign against Fulgencio Batista in Cuba, but by mid-1959 became convinced that Castro was a communist. According to the House Select Committee on Assassinations, Ferrie \"...found an outlet for his political fanaticism in the anti-Castro movement.\" By early 1961, Ferrie was working with right-wing Cuban exile Sergio Arcacha Smith, head of the Central Intelligence Agency-backed Cuban Democratic Revolutionary Front in New Orleans. Ferrie soon became Arcacha Smith's \"eager partner in counterrevolutionary activities.\" Both were involved in a raid in late 1961 on a munitions depot in Houma, Louisiana, \"...in which various weapons, grenades and ammunition were stolen.\"\n\nFerrie often spoke to business and civic groups on political issues. In July 1961, Ferrie gave an anti-Kennedy speech before the New Orleans chapter of the Military Order of World Wars, in which \"his topic was the Presidential administration and the Bay of Pigs Invasion fiasco.\" In his speech, Ferrie attacked President Kennedy for refusing to provide air support to the Bay of Pigs invasion force of Cuban exiles. Ferrie's tirade against Kennedy was so offensive that he was asked to leave the podium. Ferrie admitted to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, after the assassination, that when speaking about Kennedy, he might have used the expression: \"He ought to be shot.\" Ferrie insisted, however, that these words were just \"an off-hand or colloquial expression.\"\n\nIn the early 1960s, Ferrie became involved with Guy Banister, former Special Agent In Charge (SAC) of the Chicago office of the FBI, right-wing political activist, segregationist, and private investigator. Banister also worked with Ferrie's associate, Sergio Arcacha Smith. In early 1962, both Banister and Arcacha Smith maintained offices in the Newman Building at the corner address of 544 Camp Street / 531 Lafayette Street, New Orleans.\n\nIn February 1962, Banister assisted Ferrie in his dispute with Eastern Airlines regarding \"...charges brought [against Ferrie] by the airline and local New Orleans police of crimes against nature and extortion.\" During this period, Ferrie was often seen at Banister's office. Banister testified to Ferrie's \"good character\" at an airline pilot's grievance board hearing in the summer of 1963.\n\nAccording to several witnesses, Ferrie and Banister also worked together in the fall of 1963 for lawyer G. Wray Gill, on behalf of Gill's client, New Orleans Mafia boss Carlos Marcello, in an attempt to block Marcello's deportation to Guatemala. On a related matter, the House Select Committee on Assassinations stated that \"An unconfirmed Border Patrol report of February 1962 alleges that Ferrie was the pilot who flew Carlos Marcello back into the United States from Guatemala after he had been deported in April 1961 as part of the U.S. Attorney General Robert Kennedy's crackdown on organized crime.\" Another report, this one by the FBI, \"...indicated Marcello offered [Ferrie associate Sergio] Arcacha Smith a deal whereby Marcello would make a substantial donation to the [anti-Castro] movement in return for concessions in Cuba after Castro's overthrow.\"\n\nOn the afternoon of November 22, 1963 – the day John F. Kennedy was assassinated and the day Carlos Marcello was acquitted in his deportation case – New Orleans private investigator Guy Banister and one of his employees, Jack Martin, were drinking together at a local bar. On their return to Banister's office, the two men got into a heated argument. According to Martin, Banister said something to which Martin replied, \"What are you going to do – kill me like you all did Kennedy?\" Banister drew his .357 magnum revolver and pistol-whipped Martin several times. Martin, badly injured, went by ambulance to Charity Hospital.\n\nIn the ensuing days, Jack Martin told reporters and authorities that David Ferrie might have been involved in the assassination. Martin told the New Orleans police that Ferrie \"was supposed to have been the getaway pilot in the assassination.\" He said that Ferrie had threatened Kennedy's life, even outlining plans to kill him, and that Ferrie might have taught Oswald how to use a rifle with a telescopic sight. Martin also claimed that Ferrie had known Oswald from their days in the New Orleans Civil Air Patrol, and that he had seen a photograph, at Ferrie's home, of Oswald in a Civil Air Patrol group.\n\nMartin's accusations soon got back to Ferrie, who contacted several of his former Civil Air Patrol associates. Former cadet Roy McCoy told the FBI that \"Ferrie had come by looking for photographs of the cadets to see if Oswald was pictured in any photos of Ferrie's squadron.\"\n\nJack Martin also told bail bondsman Hardy Davis that he had heard on television that Ferrie's New Orleans library card had been found in Oswald's possession when he was arrested in Dallas. Davis reported this to Ferrie's employer, the lawyer G. Wray Gill. (In fact, no such library card was found among Oswald's possessions.) Ferrie subsequently visited both Oswald’s former New Orleans landlady and a former neighbor about this report. Ferrie was able to produce his library card for FBI agents who interviewed him on November 27, 1963.\n\nMartin also claimed that Ferrie had driven from New Orleans to Texas on the night of the assassination. When questioned by the FBI, Ferrie stated that he and two friends drove to the Winterland Skating Rink in Houston, about from Dallas, that evening. Ferrie said that \"...he had been considering for some time the feasibility and possibility of opening an ice skating rink in New Orleans\" and wanted to gather information on the ice rink business. \"He stated that he introduced himself to [rink manager] Chuck Rolland and spoke with him at length concerning the cost of installation and operation of the rink.\" However, Rolland said that he never spoke to Ferrie about running an ice rink. Rolland said that Ferrie had spent his time at the rink's pay phone, making and receiving calls.\n\nOn November 25, Martin was contacted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Martin told the FBI that Ferrie might have hypnotized Oswald into assassinating Kennedy. The FBI considered Martin's evidence unreliable. Nevertheless, FBI agents interviewed Ferrie twice about Martin's allegations. Ferrie claimed that in June 1963, he had been involved in an altercation with Martin, in which he had thrown Martin out of the office of lawyer G. Wray Gill. The FBI also interviewed about twenty other people in connection with Martin's allegations. The FBI said that it was unable to develop a substantial case against Ferrie. An inquiry by the House Select Committee on Assassinations, conducted a decade and a half later, concluded that the FBI's \"...overall investigation of the 544 Camp Street issue at the time of the assassination was not thorough.\" \n\nSome of this information reached Jim Garrison, the district attorney of New Orleans, who had become increasingly interested in the assassination after a chance meeting with Louisiana Senator Russell Long in late 1966. Garrison said that Long told him: \"Those fellows on the Warren Commission were dead wrong. There's no way in the world that one man could have shot up Jack Kennedy that way.\"\n\nIn December 1966, Garrison interviewed Jack Martin. Martin claimed that during the summer of 1963, David Ferrie, Guy Banister, Lee Harvey Oswald, and a group of anti-Castro Cuban exiles were involved in operations against Castro's Cuba that included gun running activities and burglarizing armories. Garrison would later write: \"The Banister apparatus ... was part of a supply line that ran along the Dallas–New Orleans–Miami corridor. These supplies consisted of arms and explosives for use against Castro's Cuba.\"\n\nAccording to testimony by Banister's personal secretary, Delphine Roberts, Ferrie and Oswald were frequent visitors to Banister's office in 1963. She remembered Ferrie as \"one of the agents.\" \"Many times when he came into the office he used the private office behind Banister's, and I was told he was doing private work. I believed his work was somehow connected with the CIA rather than the FBI...\" The House Select Committee on Assassinations investigated Roberts' claims and said that \"because of contradictions in Roberts' statements to the committee and lack of independent corroboration of many of her statements, the reliability of her statements could not be determined.\"\n\nAs Garrison continued his investigation, he became convinced that a group of right-wing extremists, including Ferrie, Banister, and Clay Shaw, were involved in a conspiracy with elements of the CIA to kill John F. Kennedy. Garrison would later claim that the motive for the assassination was anger over Kennedy's attempts to obtain a peace settlement in both Cuba and Vietnam. Garrison also believed that Shaw, Banister, and Ferrie had conspired to set up Oswald as a patsy in the JFK assassination.\n\nOn February 22, 1967, less than a week after the \"New Orleans States-Item\" broke the story of Jim Garrison's investigation, Ferrie was found dead in his apartment. Two unsigned, undated typed letters were found at Ferrie's apartment: The first, found in a pile of papers, was a screed about the justice system, beginning with \"To leave this life is, for me, a sweet prospect.\" The second note was written to Al Beauboeuf, Ferrie's friend to whom he bequeathed all his possessions. Garrison said he considered Ferrie's death a suicide, but added \"I am not ruling out murder.\" Garrison's aide, Lou Ivon, stated that Ferrie telephoned him the day after the story of Garrison's investigation broke and told him, \"You know what this news story does to me, don't you. I'm a dead man. From here on, believe me, I'm a dead man...\"\n\nFerrie's autopsy was performed by Orleans Parish coroner Nicholas Chetta and pathologist Ronald A. Welsh. They concluded that there was no evidence of suicide or murder and that Ferrie died of a massive cerebral hemorrhage due to a congenital intracranial berry aneurysm that had ruptured at the base of his brain. Upon learning of the coroner's findings, Jim Garrison said, \"I suppose it could just be a weird coincidence that the night Ferrie penned two suicide notes, he died of natural causes.\" On March 1, 1967, Garrison had Clay Shaw arrested and charged him with conspiring to assassinate President Kennedy.\n\nJack Wardlaw, then with the now-defunct afternoon newspaper, the \"New Orleans States-Item\", and his fellow journalist Rosemary James, a native of South Carolina, co-authored \"Plot or Politics,\" a 1967 book which takes issue with the Garrison investigation. Wardlaw won an Associated Press award for his story on the death of David Ferrie.\n\nIn 1979, the House Select Committee on Assassinations stated in its Final Report that Oswald – who had been living in New Orleans in the summer of 1963 – had established contact with anti-Castro Cubans and \"apparently\" with American anti-Castro activist, David Ferrie. The Committee also found \"credible and significant\" the testimony of six witnesses who placed Oswald and Ferrie in Clinton, Louisiana, in September 1963. One of the witnesses was Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) chairman Corrie Collins. Collins identified a photograph of David Ferrie at the trial of Clay Shaw, saying, \"...but the most outstanding thing about him [Ferrie] was his eyebrows and his hair. They didn't seem real, in other words, they were unnatural, didn't seem as if they were real hair.\" A later release of witness statements taken by Garrison's investigators in 1967, unavailable to the HSCA, showed contradictions in the witnesses' testimony given in 1969 and 1978. For example, Collins was shown a photo of David Ferrie by Garrison investigator Andrew Sciambra in January 1968 and (in Sciambra's words) \"said that he remembers seeing this man around Clinton somewhere but can't be sure where or when.\" Yet later at the Shaw trial, he placed Ferrie in the company of Shaw and Oswald.\n\nIn 1979, the House Select Committee on Assassinations stated that available records \"...lent substantial credence to the possibility that Oswald and [David] Ferrie had been involved in\nthe same [Civil Air Patrol] C.A.P. unit during the same period of time.\" Committee investigators found six witnesses who said that Oswald had been present at Civil Air Patrol meetings headed by David Ferrie.\n\nIn 1993, the PBS television program \"Frontline\" obtained a group photograph, taken eight years before the assassination, that showed Oswald and Ferrie at a cookout with other Civil Air Patrol cadets. \"Frontline\" executive producer Michael Sullivan said, \"one should be cautious in ascribing its meaning. The photograph does give much support to the eyewitnesses who say they saw Ferrie and Oswald together in the C.A.P., and it makes Ferrie's denials that he ever knew Oswald less credible. But it does not prove that the two men were with each other in 1963, nor that they were involved in a conspiracy to kill the president.\" Author John C. McAdams wrote: \"The photo doesn't prove that they ever met or talked to each other, but only that they were in the organization at the same time.\"\n\nFerrie was portrayed by actor Joe Pesci in the Oliver Stone film \"JFK\" (1991), and by Tobin Bell in the film \"Ruby\" (1992).\n\n"}
{"id": "20273620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20273620", "title": "Debby (polar bear)", "text": "Debby (polar bear)\n\nDebby (1966 – November 17, 2008) was a female polar bear, considered by scholars as the world's oldest. She lived in the Assiniboine Park Zoo in Winnipeg. In August 2008, the \"Guinness World Records\" certified her as not only the oldest polar bear, but one of the three oldest individuals ever recorded of all eight bear species.\n\nDebby was born in the Soviet Arctic in 1966, and subsequently orphaned; she arrived in Winnipeg when she was a year old.\n\nWhile in captivity, she had six cubs with her mate Skipper.\n\nIn November 2008, she was found to have multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, and was subsequently euthanized. She was 42 years old.\n"}
{"id": "4457559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4457559", "title": "Ecospirituality", "text": "Ecospirituality\n\nEcospirituality connects the science of ecology with spirituality. It brings together religion and environmental activism. Ecospirituality has been defined as \"a manifestation of the spiritual connection between human beings and the environment.\" The new millennium and the modern ecological crisis has created a need for environmentally based religion and spirituality. Ecospirituality is understood by some practitioners and scholars as one result of people wanting to free themselves from a consumeristic and materialistic society. Ecospirituality has been critiqued for being an umbrella term for concepts such as deep ecology, ecofeminism, and nature religion.\n\nProponents may come from a range of faiths including: Islam; Jainism; Christianity (Catholicism, Evangelicalism and Orthodox Christianity); Judaism; Buddhism and Indigenous traditions. Although many of their practices and beliefs may differ, a central claim is that there is \"a spiritual dimension to our present ecological crisis.\" According to the environmentalist Sister Virginia Jones, \"Eco-spirituality is about helping people experience 'the holy' in the natural world and to recognize their relationship as human beings to all creation.\n\nEcospirituality has been influenced by the ideas of deep ecology, which is characterized by \"recognition of the inherent value of all living beings and the use of this view in shaping environmental policies\" Similarly to ecopsychology, it refers to the connections between the science of ecology and the study of psychology. 'Earth-based' spirituality is another term related to ecospirituality; it is associated with pagan religious traditions and the work of prominent ecofeminist, Starhawk. Ecospirituality refers to the intertwining of intuition and bodily awareness pertaining to a relational view between human beings and the planet.\n\nEcospirituality finds its history in the relationship between spirituality and the environment. Some scholars say it \"flows from an understanding of cosmology or the story of the origin of the universe.\" There are multiple origin stories about how the spiritual relationship with people and the environment began. In Native America philosophy, there are many unique stories of how spirituality came to be. A common theme in a number of them is the discussion of a Great Spirit that lives within the universe and the earth represents its presence.\n\nEcospirituality has also sprung from a reaction to the Western world's materialism and consumerism, characterized by ecotheologian Thomas Berry as a \"crisis of cosmology.\" Scholars have argued that \"the modern perspective is based on science and focused on the human self with everything else being outside, resulting in the demise of the metaphysical world and the disenchantment with the cosmos.\" Therefore, ecospirituality originates as a rebuttal to the emphasis on the material as well as Western separation from the environment, where the environment is regarded as a set of material resources with primarily instrumental value.\n\nEcospirituality became popularized due to a need for a reconceptualization of the human relationship with the environment. Terms such as environmental crisis, ecological crisis, climate change, global warming all refer to an ongoing global issue that needs to be addressed. Generally the ecological crisis is referring to the destruction of the earth’s ecosystem. What this encompasses is a highly controversial debate in scientific and political spheres. Globally we are faced with pollution of our basic needs (air, and water) as well as the depletion of important resources, most notably food resources.\n\nAnnette Van Schalkwyk refers to the environmental crisis as “man-made”. It is arguably the result of a “mechanistic and capitalistic world view”. Whether it is man-made, or as some argue, a natural occurrence, humans are not helping. Pollution and depletion of resources play a major role in the ecological crisis. Bringing religion into the ecological crisis is controversial due to the divide between religion and science. Ecospirituality is prepared to acknowledge science, and work in tandem with religion to frame the environment as a sacred entity in need of protection.\n\nMary Evelyn Tucker notes the importance of religion and ecology connecting with sustainability. Due to the environmental crisis, perceptions of sustainability are changing. Religion and ecology, and the way people experience ecospirituality, could contribute to this changing definition of sustainability.\n\nEcospirituality has been studied by academics in order to understand a clearer definition of what individuals label as ecospirituality and the framework in which they create this definition. One study focused on holistic nurses, who themselves characterize their profession as having a fundamentally spiritual nature and a sense of the importance of the environment. Researchers performed a phenomenological study where they assessed the nurses' ecospiritual consciousness. For the purpose of their study, they defined ecospiritual consciousness as \"accessing a deep awareness of one's ecospiritual relationship.\" They then narrowed down their findings to the five principles of ecospiritual consciousness, which are: tending, dwelling, reverence, connectedness, and sentience.\nAnother study looked at medical effects of ecospirituality by having patients with cardiovascular disease practice \"environmental meditation\" and log regular journal entries about their experiences. Researchers started out with the research question of, \"What is the essence of the experience of ecospirituality meditation in patients with CVD?\" CVD is an acronym for cardiovascular disease. From analyzing journal entries of participants, researchers abstracted four major themes of ecospirituality meditation: entering a new time zone, environmental reawakening, finding a new rhythm, and the creation of a healing environment.\nThis research was driven by the goal of raising awareness among healthcare professionals about ecospirituality and the medical importance of both self and environmental consciousness. Anecdotal evidence showed a decrease in blood pressure. However, the psychological benefits of environmental meditation were the main focus for the researchers.\n\nDark Green Religion is one way in which people, both secular and religious, connect with nature on a spiritual level. Bron Taylor defines Dark Green Religion as \"religion that considers nature to be sacred, imbued by intrinsic value, and worthy of reverent care\" in his book \"Dark Green Religion: Nature Spirituality and the Planetary Future.\" \nNature religion is an overarching term of which Dark Green Religion is a part of. A key part of Dark Green Religion is the \"depth of its consideration of nature.\" \nDark Green Religion differs from Green Religion. Green Religion claims that it is a religious obligation for humans to be environmental stewards, while Dark Green Religion is a movement that simply holds nature as valuable and sacred.\nSpiritual types of Dark Green Religion include Naturalistic and Supernaturalistic forms of Animism and of Gaianism. The diverse views within Dark Green Religion are not without the idea that the earth is sacred and worthy of care. The perceptions of Dark Green Religion are global and flexible. Taylor's use of the word 'Dark' gestures toward these negative possibilities. According to Taylor, Dark Green Religion has the possibility to \"inspire the emergence of a global, civic, earth religion.\" Dark Green, Green and Nature Religions are arguably all a part of ecospirituality. The term ecospirituality is versatile and overarching.\n\nThe umbrella term \"ecospirituality\" covers the feminist theology called Ecofeminism. The term ecofeminism was first coined by the French writer Françoise D'Eaubonne in her book, \"Le Féminisme ou la Mort\" in order to name the connection between the patriarchal subjugation of women and the destruction of nature. In it, she argues that women have different ways of seeing and relating to the world than men. These differences can give rise alternative insights on interactions between humans and the natural world when women's perspectives are considered. The suppression and control of woman and the natural world are connected. On the ecofeminist view, women are controlled because they are thought to be closer to primitive nature. By understanding the connection between femininity and nature and by exploring feminine ways of seeing and relating, ecofeminism asserts that humans can realize positive ways of interacting with the natural world and with each other.\n\nA significant figure in Christian ecofeminism is Rosemary Radford Ruether. Ruether argues that feminism and ecology share a common vision, even though they use different languages. In her work, \"Gaia and God: An Ecofeminist Theology of Earth Healing\" Ruether provides three recommendations on ways to move forward with repairing and \"healing\" the ecological crisis. The first recommendation is that \"the ecological crisis needs to be seen not just as a crisis in the health of nonhuman ecosystems, polluted water, contaminated skies, threatened climate change, deforestation, extinction of species, important as all these realities are. Rather one needs to see the interconnections between the impoverishment of the earth and the impoverishment of human groups, even as others are enriching themselves to excess.\" The second recommendation is that \"a healed ecosystem – humans, animals, land, air, and water together – needs to be understood as requiring a new way of life, not just a few adjustments here and there.\" The third and final recommendation is that the need for a new vision is necessary: \"one needs to nurture the emergence of a new planetary vision and communal ethic that can knit together people across religions and cultures. There is rightly much dismay at the role that religions are playing in right-wing politics and even internecine violence today. But we need also to recognize the emergence of new configurations of inter-religious relations.\"\n\nAccording to Ivone Gebara, in Latin America, particularly in Christian Churches in Brazil, it is difficult to be a feminist, but more difficult to be an ecofeminist. Gebara explains ecology as one of the \"deepest concerns of feminism and ecology as having a deep resonance or a political and anthropolocial consequence from a feminist perspective.\" Gebara believes that it is the task of different groups of Latin American women to \"provide a new order of meaning including marginalized people.\" This task is both challenging and political. Gebara says: \"We can choose the life of the planet and the respect of all living beings or we choose to die by our own bad decisions.\"\n\nPaganism is a nature-based religion that exists in a multitude of forms. There is no official doctrine or sacred text that structures its practice. Due to its lack of structure, many Pagans believe that it should be used as a tool to combat the current ecological crisis because it is flexible and can adapt to the environment's needs. Ecospirituality advocates contend that an ecology-based religion that focuses on the nurturing and healing of the earth is necessary in modernity. As paganism is already based in nature worship, many believe it would be a useful starting point for ecospirituality. In fact, neopagan revivals have seen the emergence of pagan communities that are more earth-focused. They may build their rituals around advocacy for a sustainable lifestyle and emphasize complete interconnectedness with the earth. Paganism understands divine figures to exist not as transcendent beings, but as immanent beings in the present realm, meaning that their divine figures exist within each of us, and within nature. Many pagans believe in \"interconnectedness\" among all living beings, which allows them to foster moments of self-reflection before acting. These pagan ideals coincide with ecospirituality because pagans understand the environment to be part of the divine realm and part of their inner self. Therefore, in their view, harming the environment directly affects their wellbeing. Pagans have already recognized the importance of incorporating environmental ideologies with their own religious beliefs. The Dragon Environmental Network is a pagan community based in the UK. They are committed to practicing \"eco-magic\" with the intention of recognizing the earth as sacred and divine. Their four goals are as follows:\nPaganism combines religion with environmental activism. Pagans organize protests, campaigns, and petitions with the environment in mind while staying true to their religious beliefs. Bron Taylor, argues that their core Pagan beliefs greatly improves their environmental activism. Additionally, the Pagan community has recently released a statement on the ecological crisis. It explains that Pagans lead lives that foster “harmony with the rhythms of our great Earth\" and that they view the Earth as their equal in stating “we are neither above nor separate from the rest of nature”. It states that we are part of a web of life, and are fully interconnected with the biosphere. This connection to all living beings is seen as spiritual and sacred. And in turn it provides a framework that Pagans can use to combine their religious beliefs with environmental activism. It calls for a return to ancient understandings of the earth by listening to ancient wisdom. It asks Pagans to practice their religion in all aspects of their lives in order to give the Earth room to heal. The statement concludes by stating “building a truly sustainable culture means transforming the systems of domination and exploitation that threaten our future into systems of symbiotic partnership that support our ecosystems”.\n\nMost Christian theology has centered on the doctrine of creation. According to Elizabeth Johnson, in recent years, this has led to growing ecological awareness among Christians. The logic of this stance is rooted in the theological idea that since God created the world freely, it has an intrinsic value and is worthy of our respect and care. In 1990, Pope John Paul II wrote a letter on ecological issues. He concluded the letter with a discussion of Christian belief and how it should lead to ethical care of the earth. He ended the letter with the principle \"respect for life and the dignity of human person must extend also to the rest of creation.\"\n\nThe doctrines of Christ that Christians follow also have the potential for ecological spirituality for they support interpretations that are consistent with ecospirituality. According to Elizabeth Johnson, Jesus' view of the Kingdom of God included earthly wellbeing. According to Thomas Berry, Christians recognize a need for an Earth Ethic. The Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, leader of the Greek Orthodox Church, has organized major religion and science symposia on water issues across Europe, the Amazon River and Greenland. He has issued statements – including a joint statement with John Paul II in 2002 – calling destruction of the environment \"ecological sin.\" Bishop Malone, president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops has said: \"The Church stands in need of a new symbolic and affective system through which to proclaim the Gospel to the modern world.\" In the ecotheology of the late Thomas Berry, he argues that Christians often fail to realize that both their social and religious wellbeing depend on the wellbeing of Earth. Earth provides sustenance for physical, imaginative and emotions, and religious wellbeing. In Thomas Berry's view, the Christian future will depend on the ability of Christians to assume their responsibility for Earth's fate. An example of such responsibility-taking can be seen in the founding of an association called \"Sisters of Earth,\" which is made up of nuns and laywomen. This network of women from diverse religious communities is significant, both for the movement of general concern for the natural world and for the religious life in Christian contexts.\n\nMany teachings in Hinduism are intertwined with the ethics of ecospirituality in their stress on environmental wellbeing. The Hindu text called the \"Taittariya Upanishad\" refers to creation as offspring of the Supreme Power, \"paramatman\". Thus, the environment is related to something that is divine and therefore deserves respect. Since the late 1980s when the negative effects of mass industrialization were becoming popularized, India instituted administrative policies to deal with environmental conservation. These policies were rooted in the ways that the Hindu religion is tied to the land.\n\nIn the Hindu text \"Vajur Veda\" (32.10), God is described as being present in all living things, further reinforcing the need to show respect for creation. Passages such as this lead some Hindus to become vegetarian and to affirm a broader type of ecospiritual connection to the Earth. \"Vishnu Purana\" 3.8.15. states that, \"God, Kesava, is pleased with a person who does not harm or destroy other non-speaking creatures or animals.\" This notion is tied in with the Hindu concept of karma. Karma means that the pain caused to other living things will come back to you through the process of reincarnation.\n\nEcospirituality can also be seen in the \"Prithivi Sukta\" which is a \"Hymn to Mother Earth.\" In this text, the Earth is humanized into a spiritual being to which humans have familial ties. Through ecospirituality, the notion of praising and viewing the Earth in this way brings about its strong connections to Hinduism.\n\nContemporary Jaina faith is “inherently ecofriendly.” In terms of the ecological crisis, Jains are “quite self-conscious of the ecological implications of their core teachings.”\n\nJain teachings center on five vows that lead to reverse the flow of or release karma. One of these vows is ahimsa or non-violence. Ahimsa “is said to contain the key to advancement along the spiritual path (sreni). This requires abstaining from harm to any being that possesses more than one sense” The principles of the Jaina tradition are rooted in environmental practices. The Jaina connection to nature is conducive to ecospirituality.\n\nSome scholars argue that while looking at the scriptural sources of Islam, you can see it is an ecologically orientated religion. Looking at textual sources of Islam, the shari'a preach a number of environmentally focused guidelines to push environmentalism, in particular, \"maintenance of preserves, distribution of water, and the development of virgin lands.\" Much of Muslim environmentalism is a result of the Qur'anic stress of stewardship which is explained through the Arabic concept \"khilafa\". A quote translated from the \"hadith\" states, \"verily, this world is sweet and appealing, and Allah placed you as vice-regents thereinl he will see what you do.\" Within the Islamic faith, there is a set importance to following the messages set forth in scripture, therefore the environmentalism spoken through them has led to a spirituality around the environment. This spirituality can also be seen with Qur'anic concept of \"tawhid\", which translates to unity. Many Muslim environmentalists see this meaning spiritually as \"all-inclusive\" when in relation to the Earth.\n\nA majority of Muslim writers draw attention to the environmental crisis as a direct result of social injustice. Many argue that the problem is not that, \"humans as a species are destroying the balance of nation, but rather that \"some\" humans are taking more than their share.\" Muslim environmentalists such as Fazlun Khalid, Yasin Dutton, Omar Vadillo, and Hashim Dockrat have drawn a correlation between the capitalist nature of the global economy to being un-Islamic and essentiality leading to ecological crisis.\n\nThe issues of environmental degradation are especially important to Muslims as majority of Muslims live in developing countries where they see the effects of the ecological crisis on a daily basis. This has led to conferences discussing Islam and the environment to take place in Iran and Saudi Arabia as well as the introduction of environmental nongovernmental organizations.\n\nBuddhism has been around for hundreds of years, however with the modern knowledge on topics such as global warming, many Buddhist scholars have looked back at how Buddhist teaching would respond to the environmental crisis and created what is called Green Buddhism. One of the key players in this introduction was Gary Snyder who brought to light where Buddhist practice and ecological thinking intertwine. Green Buddhism made waves in the 1980s when they publicly address the ecological crisis to create awareness and in 1989 when the Dalai Lama won a Noble Peace Prize for the proposed introduction of Tibet as an ecological reserve. Buddhism has been open to working with other world religions to combat the environment crisis seen at an international conference for Buddhist-Christian studies that addressed the environment. Although Green Buddhism has not commented much on technical issues such as air and water pollution, they use their spirituality to focus heavily on \"rich resources for immediate application in food ethics, animal rights, and consumerism.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "751494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=751494", "title": "Ethnic violence", "text": "Ethnic violence\n\nEthnic violence refers to violence expressly motivated by ethnic hatred and ethnic conflict. It is commonly related to political violence, and often the terms are interchangeable, or one is used as a pretext for the other when politically expedient.\nForms of ethnic violence which can be argued to have the character of terrorism may be known as ethnic terrorism or ethnically-motivated terrorism. \n\"Racist terrorism\" is a form of ethnic violence dominated by overt racism and xenophobic reactionism.\n\nEthnic violence in an organized, sustained form is known as ethnic conflict or warfare (race war), in contrast to class conflict, where the dividing line is social class rather than ethnic background.\n\nCare must be taken to distinguish ethnic violence, which is violence \"motivated\" by an ethnic division, from violence that just happens to break out between groups of different ethnicity motivated by other factors (political or ideological).\n\nViolent ethnic rivalry is the subject matter of Jewish sociologist Ludwig Gumplowicz's \"Der Rassenkampf\" (\"Struggle of the Races\", 1909); and more recently of Amy Chua's notable study, \": How Exporting Free Market Democracy Breeds Ethnic Hatred and Global Instability\".\nSome academics would place all \"nationalist-based violence\" under ethnic violence, which would include the World Wars and all major conflicts between industrialised nations during the 19th century.\n\nThere are a variety of potential causes for ethnic violence. Research by the New England Complex Systems Institute (NESCI) has shown that violence results when ethnic groups are partially mixed: neither clearly separated enough to reduce contact nor thoroughly mixed enough to build common bonds. According to Dr. May Lim, a researcher affiliated with NECSI, \"Violence normally occurs when a group is large enough to impose cultural norms on public spaces, but not large enough to prevent those norms from being broken. Usually this occurs in places where boundaries between ethnic or cultural groups are unclear.\" \n\nThis theory also states that the minimum requirement for ethnic tensions to result in ethnic violence on a systemic level is a heterogeneous society and the lack of a power to prevent them from fighting. In the ethnic conflicts that erupted after the end of the Cold War, this lack of outer controls is seen as the cause; Since there was no longer a strong centralized power (in the form of the USSR) to control the various ethnic groups, they then had to provide defense for themselves. This implies that once ethnicity is established, there needs to be strong distinctions, otherwise violence is inevitable.\n\nAnother theory supports that a general feeling of lack of security can cause ethnic violence, when paired with proximity to other ethnic groups. This can eventually lead to distrust of the other ethnic groups, which leads to an unwillingness to peacefully coexist with the other ethnic groups.\n\nThe emotions that tend to cause ethnic tensions, which can lead to ethnic violence, are fear, hate, resentment, and rage. Individual identities might change throughout the years, but strong emotional issues can lead to a desire to fulfill those needs above all other concerns. This strong desire to satisfy individual needs, without harming your own group, can have violent results.\n\nAssuming that ethnic groups can be defined as a group of people who band together to protect material goods, while satisfying the need to feel a part of a group, violence resulting from ethnicity can be a result of a violation of either of these. However, this also requires that there was no peaceful solution.\n\nAnother theory states that ethnic violence is the result of past tensions. Referring to the other ethnic group based solely on their previous offences tends to increase the probability of future violence. This is referenced in the literature on ethnic violence that tends to focus on areas that have already had a history of ethnic violence, instead of comparing them with areas that have had peaceful ethnic relations.\n\nEthnic violence obviously does not exist in exactly the same conditions in every example. Where one case of ethnic violence might result in a drawn out genocide, another might result in a race riot. Different issues lead to different levels of intensity of violence. The problem mainly comes down to issues of group security. In situations where offensive and defensive actions are indistinguishable to outsiders, and the offensive actions are more effective in insuring group survival, then violence is sure to be present and harsh. This view of ethnic violence placed risk in areas where members of ethnic groups feel insecure about their future, not as a result of emotional tensions.\n\nEthnic violence often occurs as a result of individual domestic disputes spiralling out of control to large-scale conflicts. When individual disputes occur between two members of different ethnic groups, they can either result in peace or result in further violence. Peace is more likely when the offended person feels their offender will be punished sufficiently in their own ethnic group. Or peace is achieved simply through the fear of greater ethnic violence. If either the belief of retribution or the fear of violence is not present, then ethnic violence may occur.\n\nEthnic violence being particularly violent, there are numerous theories for preventing it, or once it starts, for ending it. Yaneer Bar-Yam of the New England Complex Systems Institute suggests that either \"clear boundaries\" or \"thorough mixing\" can reduce violence, citing Switzerland as an example.\n\nUnfortunately, poorly planned separations do not lead to peace among ethnic groups. Religious separation between India and Pakistan left large heterogenous areas in India where violence has since occurred.\n\nThe United States is often presented as the classic \"melting pot\" of ethnicities. \"Ethnic\" tensions in the United States are more typically viewed in terms of race.\n\nUsing the media to change perceptions of ethnicity might lead to a change in probability of ethnic violence. The use of media that results in ethnic violence is usually a cyclical relationship; one group increases messages of group cohesion in response to a perceived threat, and a neighboring group responds with messages of their own group cohesion. Of course, this only happens when outside groups are already perceived as being potential threats. Using this logic, ethnic violence might be prevented by decreasing messages of group cohesion, while increasing messages of safety and solidarity with members of other ethnic groups.\n\nOutside forces may also be effective in decreasing the likelihood of ethnic violence. However, not all interferences from outside forces may be helpful. If not handled delicately, the possibility might increase. Outside groups can help stabilize danger zones by imposing gentle economic sanctions, develop more representative political institutions that would allow for minority voices to be heard, and encourage the respect of ethnically diverse communities and minorities. However, if done incorrectly, outside interference can cause a nationalistic lash-back.\n\nExamples of ethnic violence include:\n\nA genocide qualifies as \"ethnic violence\" (of the most extreme sort), because the victims of a genocide are by definition killed only based on their membership in a given ethnic group.\n\nSome of the world's ongoing conflicts are, however, fought along religious rather than ethnic lines; an example of this is the Somali Civil War.\nThe Guatemalan Civil War was fought along ideological lines (leftist rebel groups) but acquired ethnic characteristics because the rebels were primarily supported by the indigenous Mayan groups.\n\nTerrorism against Copts in Egypt qualifies as both ethnic and religious and isn't fought in an ongoing conflict but reflects a history of sporadic and continuous attacks, over the years.\n\n"}
{"id": "38045730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38045730", "title": "Execution of Czolgosz with Panorama of Auburn Prison", "text": "Execution of Czolgosz with Panorama of Auburn Prison\n\nExecution of Czolgosz with Panorama of Auburn Prison is a 1901 silent film produced by the Edison Studios arms of Edison Manufacturing Company. The film is a dramatic reenactment of the execution of Leon Czolgosz by electric chair at Auburn Correctional Facility following his 1901 conviction for the assassination of William McKinley. It is considered an important film in the history of cinema.\n\nThroughout 1901, Edison had produced and released numerous films about the assassination, due to intense public interest. For the final film in the series, producer Edwin S. Porter sought permission to film the execution itself but was denied. Instead, they filmed outside the prison the day of the execution, then recreated the execution on a set.\n\nThe film comprises four shots. Two of them are actual footage of the outside of Auburn Prison on the day of the execution. The other two are recreations of the execution with actors, cut together in an early example of continuity editing.\n\nAccording to the Edison Studios catalog of the time, the film is: \nA detailed reproduction of the execution of the assassin of President McKinley faithfully carried out from the description of an eye witness. The picture is in three scenes. First: Panoramic view of Auburn Prison taken the morning of the electrocution. The picture then dissolves into the corridor of murderer's row. The keepers are seen taking Czolgosz from his cell to the death chamber, and shows State Electrician, Wardens and Doctors making final test of the chair. Czolgosz is then brought in by the guard and is quickly strapped into the chair. The current is turned on at a signal from the Warden, and the assassin heaves heavily as though the straps would break. He drops prone after the current is turned off. The doctors examine the body and report to the Warden that he is dead, and he in turn officially announces the death to the witness.\n\nBecause copyright did not cover films until The Townsend Amendment of 1912 updated the Copyright Act of 1909, Edison Manufacturing Company submitted a paper copy to the Paper Print Collection of the Library of Congress, now part of the collection in the Motion Picture, Broadcasting, and Recorded Sound Division.\n\nFilm historian Don Fairservice has noted the parallels with the 1901 film \"Histoire d'un crime\" by Ferdinand Zecca.\n\n"}
{"id": "53124745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53124745", "title": "Ghazi Nasr Al-Din", "text": "Ghazi Nasr Al-Din\n\nGhazi Nasr Al-Din is a Lebanese Venezuelan who served as Charge d' Affaires of the Venezuelan Embassy in Damascus, Syria and is accused of assisting Hezbollah.\n\nGhazi Nasr Al-Din was born on 13 December 1962 in Beirut, Lebanon.\n\nIn 2000, shortly after Hugo Chávez came to power, Nasr Al-Din immigrated into Venezuela. Nasr Al-Din eventually established a relationship with aspiring Venezuelan politician Tareck El Aissami. He was then made the Charge d' Affaires of the Venezuelan Embassy in Damascus, Syria. In 2008, he was appointed as Director of Political Aspects at the Venezuelan Embassy in Lebanon.\n\nWhile serving as a Venezuelan diplomat in Venezuela and making connections through a local Islamic group in Venezuela, Nasr Al-Din allegedly established ties to various entities in the Middle East, including the terrorist organization Hezbollah. The Government of the United States has accused Nasr Al-Din of having \"counseled Hizballah donors on fundraising efforts and has provided donors with specific information on bank accounts where the donors' deposits would go directly to Hizballah\" and had \"met with senior Hizballah officials in Lebanon to discuss operational issues, as well as facilitated the travel of Hizballah members to and from Venezuela\". Allegations also involved an event in January 2006, where \"Nasr al Din facilitated the travel of two Hizballah representatives to the Lebanese Parliament to Caracas to solicit donations for Hizballah and to announce the opening of a Hizballah-sponsored community center and office in Venezuela\", later assisting the travel of more Hezbollah members to Iran. Nasr Al-Din had also met with Walid Makled, a Venezuelan drug trafficker, doing \"business\" with him.\n\nFollowing the 2006 appointment of Nicolás Maduro, Venezuela's future president, to be Venezuela's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Nasr Al-Din's diplomatic workload increased as he delivered multiple Venezuelan visas to Lebanese citizens in 2007. In 2008, the United States Department of the Treasury placed Nasr Al-Din on its terrorism blacklist citing his assistance of Hezbollah.\n\nA 22 August 2010 meeting in Caracas was also planned by Nasr Al-Din, which involved Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez, Hamas Supreme Leader Khaled Meshal, a Hezbollah leader and Secretary-General of the Islamic Jihad Movement in Palestine Ramadan Abdullah Mohammad Shallah. In 2015, the FBI listed him as a person of interest due to his connections to Hezbollah.\n\nNasr Al-Din brothers, Abdallah and Oday, both reside in Isla Margarita, Venezuela. Abdallah Nasr Al-Din allegedly launders money for Hezbollah on the island while Oday recruits chavistas to join Bolivarian Circles and travel to Iran for training.\n\nIn an interview with the Russian state television network RT, Nasr Al-Din explained his opposition to the United States, stating that the accusations of his involvement with Hezbollah are due to his anti-American sentiments and his role between Syria and Venezuela. He also boast of Iran's \"popular support\" and \"military potential\" against the United States and voiced his support of Russian military intervention in Syria.\n\n"}
{"id": "1943811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1943811", "title": "Intersubjectivity", "text": "Intersubjectivity\n\nIntersubjectivity, in philosophy, psychology, sociology, and anthropology, is the psychological relation between people. It is usually used in contrast to solipsistic individual experience, emphasizing our inherently social being.\n\n\"Intersubjectivity\" is a term coined by social scientists as a short-hand description for a variety of human interactions. For example, social psychologists Alex Gillespie and Flora Cornish list at least six definitions of intersubjectivity (and other disciplines have additional definitions).\n\n\"Intersubjectivity\" has been used in social science to refer to agreement. There is \"intersubjectivity\" between people if they agree on a given set of meanings or a definition of the situation. Similarly, Thomas Scheff defines \"intersubjectivity\" as \"the sharing of subjective states by two or more individuals.\"\n\n\"Intersubjectivity\" also has been used to refer to the common-sense, shared meanings constructed by people in their interactions with each other and used as an everyday resource to interpret the meaning of elements of social and cultural life. If people share common sense, then they share a definition of the situation.\n\nThe term has also been used to refer to shared (or partially shared) \"divergences\" of meaning. Self-presentation, lying, practical jokes, and social emotions, for example, all entail not a shared definition of the situation but partially shared divergences of meaning. Someone who is telling a lie is engaged in an intersubjective act because they are working with two different definitions of the situation. Lying is thus genuinely \"inter\"subjective (in the sense of operating between two subjective definitions of reality).\n\n\"Intersubjectivity\" can also be understood as the process of so-called psychological energy moving between two or more subjects. In a room where someone is lying on their deathbed, for example, the room can appear enveloped in a shroud of gloom for people interacting with the dying person. The psychological weight of one subject comes to bear on the minds of others depending on how they react to it, thereby creating an intersubjective experience that, without multiple consciousnesses interacting with each other, would be otherwise strictly solitary. Love is a prime example of intersubjectivity that implies a shared feeling of care and affection, among others.\n\nAmong the early authors who explored this conception in psychoanalysis, in an explicit or implicit way, were Heinz Kohut, Robert Stolorow, George E. Atwood, Jessica Benjamin in the United States, and in Italy.\n\nPsychoanalyst Jessica Benjamin, in \"The Bonds of Love\", writes, \"The concept of intersubjectivity has its origins in the social theory of Jürgen Habermas (1970), who used the expression 'the intersubjectivity of mutual understanding' to designate an individual capacity and a social domain.\"\n\nContemporarily, intersubjectivity is a major topic in both the analytic and the continental traditions of philosophy. Intersubjectivity is considered crucial not only at the relational level but also at the epistemological and even metaphysical levels. For example, intersubjectivity is postulated as playing a role in establishing the truth of propositions, and constituting the so-called objectivity of objects.\n\nA central concern in consciousness studies of the past 50 years is the so-called problem of \"other minds,\" which asks how we can justify our belief that people have minds much like our own and predict others' mind-states and behavior, as our experience shows we often can. Contemporary philosophical theories of intersubjectivity need to address the problem of other minds.\n\nIn the debate between cognitive individualism and cognitive universalism, some aspects of thinking are neither solely personal nor fully universal. Cognitive sociology proponents argue for \"intersubjectivity\"—an intermediate perspective of social cognition that provides a balanced view between personal and universal views of our social cognition. This approach suggests that, instead of being individual or universal thinkers, human beings subscribe to \"thought communities\"—communities of differing beliefs. Thought community examples include churches, professions, scientific beliefs, generations, nations, and political movements. This perspective explains why each individual thinks differently from each another (individualism): person A may choose to adhere to expiry dates on foods, but person B may believe that expiry dates are only guidelines and it is still safe to eat the food days past the expiry date. But not all human beings think the same way (universalism).\n\nIntersubjectivity argues that each thought community shares social experiences that are different from the social experiences of other thought communities, creating differing beliefs among people who subscribe to different thought communities. These experiences transcend our subjectivity, which explains why they can be shared by the entire thought community. Proponents of intersubjectivity support the view that individual beliefs are often the result of thought community beliefs, not just personal experiences or universal and objective human beliefs. Beliefs are recast in terms of standards, which are set by thought communities.\n\nEdmund Husserl, the founder of phenomenology, recognized the importance of intersubjectivity, and wrote extensively on the topic. In German, his writings on intersubjectivity are gathered in volumes 13–15 of the \"Husserliana\". In English, his best-known text on intersubjectivity is the \"Cartesian Meditations\" (it is this text that features solely in the Husserl reader entitled \"The Essential Husserl\"). Although Husserlian phenomenology is often charged with methodological solipsism, in the fifth Cartesian Meditation, Husserl attempts to grapple with the problem of intersubjectivity and puts forward his theory of transcendental, monadological intersubjectivity.\n\nHusserl's student Edith Stein extended intersubjectivity's basis in empathy in her 1917 doctoral dissertation, \"On the Problem of Empathy\" (\"Zum Problem der Einfühlung\").\n\nIntersubjectivity also helps to constitute objectivity: in the experience of the world as available not only to oneself, but also to the Other, there is a bridge between the personal and the shared, the self and the Others.\n\nDiscussions and theories of intersubjectivity are prominent and of importance in contemporary psychology, theory of mind, and consciousness studies. Three major contemporary theories of intersubjectivity are theory theory, simulation theory, and interaction theory.\n\nShannon Spaulding, Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Oklahoma State University, writes; \"Theory theorists argue that we explain and predict behaviour by employing folk psychological theories about how mental states inform behaviour. With our folk psychological theories, we infer from a target's behaviour what his or her mental states probably are. And from these inferences, plus the psychological principles in the theory connecting mental states to behavior, we predict the target's behaviour (Carruthers and Smith 1996; Davies and Stone 1995a; Gopnik and Wellman 1992; Nichols and Stich 2003).\"\n\nSimulation theorists, on the other hand, claim that we explain and predict others' behaviour by using our own minds as a model and \"putting ourselves in another's shoes\"—that is, by imagining what our mental states would be and how we would behave if we were in the other's situation. More specifically, we simulate what the other's mental states could have been to cause the observed behaviour, then use the simulated mental states, pretend beliefs, and pretend desires as input, running them through our own decision-making mechanism. We then take the resulting conclusion and attribute it to the other person. Recently, authors like Vittorio Gallese have proposed a theory of embodied simulation that refers to neuroscientific research on mirror neurons and phenomenological research.\n\nSpaulding notes that this debate has stalled in the past few years, with progress limited to articulating various hybrid simulation theories—\"theory theory\" accounts. To resolve this impasse, authors like Shaun Gallagher put forward interaction theory. Gallagher writes that an \"...important shift is taking place in social cognition research, away from a focus on the individual mind and toward... participatory aspects of social understanding...\" Interaction theory is put forward to \"galvanize\" the interactive turn in explanations of intersubjectivity. Gallagher defines an interaction as two or more autonomous agents engaged in co-regulated coupling behavior. For example, when walking a dog, both the owner's behavior is regulated by the dog stopping and sniffing, and the dog's behavior is regulated by the lead and the owner's commands. Ergo, walking the dog is an example of an interactive process. For Gallagher, interaction and direct perception constitute what he terms \"primary\" (or basic) intersubjectivity.\n\nStudies of dialogue and dialogism reveal how language is deeply intersubjective. When we speak, we always address our interlocutors, taking their perspective and orienting to what we think they think (or, more often, don't think). Within this tradition of research, it has been argued that the structure of individual signs or symbols, the basis of language, is intersubjective and that the psychological process of self-reflection entails intersubjectivity. Recent research on mirror neurons provides evidence for the deeply intersubjective basis of human psychology, and arguably much of the literature on empathy and theory of mind relates directly to intersubjectivity.\n\nColwyn Trevarthen has applied intersubjectivity to the very rapid cultural development of new born infants. Research suggests that as babies, humans are biologically wired to “coordinate their actions with others.” This ability to coordinate and sync with others facilitates cognitive and emotional learning through social interaction. Additionally, the most socially productive relationship between children and adults is bidirectional, where both parties actively define a shared culture. The bidirectional aspect lets the active parties organize the relationship how they see fit—what they see as important receives the most focus. Emphasis is placed on the idea that children are actively involved in how they learn, using intersubjectivity.\n\nThe ways intersubjectivity occurs varies across cultures. In certain Indigenous American communities, nonverbal communication is so prevalent that intersubjectivity may occur regularly amongst all members of the community, in part perhaps due to a \"joint cultural understanding\" and a history of shared endeavors. This \"joint cultural understanding\" may develop in small, Indigenous American communities where children have grown up embedded in their community's values, expectations, and livelihoods—learning through participation with adults rather than through intent verbal instruction—working in cohesion with one another in shared endeavors on a daily basis. Having grown up within this context may have led to members of this community to have what is described by some as a \"blending of agendas,\" or by others as a \"dovetailing of motives.\" If community or family members have the same general goals in mind they may thus act cohesively within an overlapping state of mind. Whether persons are in each other's presence or merely within the same community this blending of agendas or dovetailing of motives enables intersubjectivity to occur within these shared endeavors.\n\nThe cultural value of \"respeto\" may also contribute to intersubjectivity in some communities; unlike the English definition of 'respect,' \"respeto\" refers loosely to a mutual consideration for others' activities, needs, wants, etc. Similar to \"putting yourself in one's shoes\" the prevalence of \"respeto\" in certain Indigenous American communities in Mexico and South America may promote intersubjectivity as persons act in accordance with one another within consideration for the community or the individual's current needs or state of mind.\n\nShared reference during an activity facilitates learning. Adults either teach by doing the task with children, or by directing attention toward experts. Children that had to ask questions in regard to how to perform a task were scolded for not learning by another's example, as though they were ignoring the available resources to learn a task, as seen in Tz’utujil Maya parents who scolded questioning children and asking \"if they had eyes.\"\n\nChildren from the Chillihuani village in the Andean mountains learned to weave without explicit instruction. They learned the basic technique from others by observing, eager to participate in their community. The learning process was facilitated by watching adults and by being allowed to play and experiment using tools to create their own weaving techniques.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30965725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30965725", "title": "Ion semiconductor sequencing", "text": "Ion semiconductor sequencing\n\nIon semiconductor sequencing is a method of DNA sequencing based on the detection of hydrogen ions that are released during the polymerization of DNA. This is a method of \"sequencing by synthesis\", during which a complementary strand is built based on the sequence of a template strand.\n\nA microwell containing a template DNA strand to be sequenced is flooded with a single species of deoxyribonucleotide triphosphate (dNTP). If the introduced dNTP is complementary to the leading template nucleotide, it is incorporated into the growing complementary strand. This causes the release of a hydrogen ion that triggers an ISFET ion sensor, which indicates that a reaction has occurred. If homopolymer repeats are present in the template sequence, multiple dNTP molecules will be incorporated in a single cycle. This leads to a corresponding number of released hydrogens and a proportionally higher electronic signal.\n\nThis technology differs from other sequencing technologies in that no modified nucleotides or optics are used. Ion semiconductor sequencing may also be referred to as Ion Torrent sequencing, pH-mediated sequencing, silicon sequencing, or semiconductor sequencing.\n\nThe technology was licensed from DNA Electronics Ltd, developed by Ion Torrent Systems Inc. and was released in February 2010. Ion Torrent have marketed their machine as a rapid, compact and economical sequencer that can be utilized in a large number of laboratories as a bench top machine. Roche's 454 Life Sciences is partnering with DNA Electronics on the development of a long-read, high-density semiconductor sequencing platform using this technology.\n\nIn nature, the incorporation of a deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate (dNTP) into a growing DNA strand involves the formation of a covalent bond and the release of pyrophosphate and a positively charged hydrogen ion. A dNTP will only be incorporated if it is complementary to the leading unpaired template nucleotide. Ion semiconductor sequencing exploits these facts by determining if a hydrogen ion is released upon providing a single species of dNTP to the reaction.\n\nMicrowells on a semiconductor chip that each contain many copies of one single-stranded template DNA molecule to be sequenced and DNA polymerase are sequentially flooded with unmodified A, C, G or T dNTP. If an introduced dNTP is complementary to the next unpaired nucleotide on the template strand it is incorporated into the growing complementary strand by the DNA polymerase. If the introduced dNTP is not complementary there is no incorporation and no biochemical reaction. The hydrogen ion that is released in the reaction changes the pH of the solution, which is detected by an ISFET. The unattached dNTP molecules are washed out before the next cycle when a different dNTP species is introduced.\n\nBeneath the layer of microwells is an ion sensitive layer, below which is an ISFET ion sensor. All layers are contained within a CMOS semiconductor chip, similar to that used in the electronics industry.\n\nEach chip contains an array of microwells with corresponding ISFET detectors.\nEach released hydrogen ion then triggers the ISFET ion sensor. The series of electrical pulses transmitted from the chip to a computer is translated into a DNA sequence, with no intermediate signal conversion required. Because nucleotide incorporation events are measured directly by electronics, the use of labeled nucleotides and optical measurements are avoided. Signal processing and DNA assembly can then be carried out in software.\n\nThe per base accuracy achieved in house by Ion Torrent on the Ion Torrent Ion semiconductor sequencer as of February 2011 was 99.6% based on 50 base reads, with 100 Mb per run. The read-length as of February 2011 was 100 base pairs. The accuracy for homopolymer repeats of 5 repeats in length was 98%. Later releases show a read length of 400 base pairs It should be noted that these figures have not yet been independently verified outside of the company.\n\nThe major benefits of ion semiconductor sequencing are rapid sequencing speed and low upfront and operating costs. This has been enabled by the avoidance of modified nucleotides and optical measurements.\n\nBecause the system records natural polymerase-mediated nucleotide incorporation events, sequencing can occur in real-time. In reality, the sequencing rate is limited by the cycling of substrate nucleotides through the system. Ion Torrent Systems Inc., the developer of the technology, claims that each incorporation measurement takes 4 seconds and each run takes about one hour, during which 100-200 nucleotides are sequenced. If the semiconductor chips are improved (as predicted by Moore’s law), the number of reads per chip (and therefore per run) should increase.\n\nThe cost of acquiring a pH-mediated sequencer from Ion Torrent Systems Inc. at time of launch was priced at around $50,000 USD, excluding sample preparation equipment and a server for data analysis. The cost per run is also significantly lower than that of alternative automated sequencing methods, at roughly $1,000.\n\nIf homopolymer repeats of the same nucleotide (e.g. ) are present on the template strand (strand to be sequenced) then multiple introduced nucleotides are incorporated and more hydrogen ions are released in a single cycle. This results in a greater pH change and a proportionally greater electronic signal. This is a limitation of the system in that it is difficult to enumerate long repeats. This limitation is shared by other techniques that detect single nucleotide additions such as pyrosequencing. Signals generated from a high repeat number are difficult to differentiate from repeats of a similar but different number; \"e.g.\", homorepeats of length 7 are difficult to differentiate from those of length 8.\n\nAnother limitation of this system is the short read length compared to other sequencing methods such as Sanger sequencing or pyrosequencing. Longer read lengths are beneficial for \"de novo\" genome assembly. Ion Torrent semiconductor sequencers produce an average read length of approximately 400 nucleotides per read.\n\nThe throughput is currently lower than that of other high-throughput sequencing technologies, although the developers hope to change this by increasing the density of the chip.\n\nThe developers of Ion Torrent semiconductor sequencing have marketed it as a rapid, compact and economical sequencer that can be utilized in a large number of laboratories as a bench top machine. The company hopes that their system will take sequencing outside of specialized centers and into the reach of hospitals and smaller laboratories. A January 2011 New York Times article, \"Taking DNA Sequencing to the Masses\", underlines these ambitions.\n\nDue to the ability of alternative sequencing methods to achieve a greater read length (and therefore being more suited to whole genome analysis) this technology may be best suited to small scale applications such as microbial genome sequencing, microbial transcriptome sequencing, targeted sequencing, amplicon sequencing, or for quality testing of sequencing libraries.\n\n"}
{"id": "144366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144366", "title": "Irv Rubin", "text": "Irv Rubin\n\nIrving David \"Irv\" Rubin (April 12, 1945 – November 13, 2002) was chairman of the Jewish Defense League (JDL) from 1985 to 2002. He died in mysterious circumstances in jail when awaiting trial on charges of conspiracy to bomb private and government property.\n\nRubin was born in Montreal, Quebec. He and his parents and sister moved to the neighborhood of Granada Hills, California, a suburb of Los Angeles, which has a large Jewish population. He attained United States citizenship shortly thereafter, and served as a sergeant in the United States Air Force until he was honorably discharged. He was a staunch supporter of the right to keep and bear arms.\n\nIn 1978, Rubin offered a $500 bounty to anyone who would wound or kill a member of the American Nazi Party. Indicted on solicitation of murder charges, he was acquitted in 1981.\n\nRubin became the successor to JDL founder Rabbi Meir Kahane, after Kahane moved to Israel in 1985 and formed the Kach Party, which was eventually outlawed by the Israeli Government as \"racist\".\n\nIn 1985, it was reported that Rubin said about the bombing of the home of historian and Holocaust denier Dr. George Ashley, \"It's too bad that Mr. Ashley wasn't blown up\" and \"I applaud those who took such actions. I think these people have a righteous place in the world.\" Moderate Jews also criticized him. Rob Eshman, the Editor-in-Chief of the \"Jewish Journal of Greater Los Angeles\" noted \"In the solar system of Jewish life, Irv Rubin is Pluto\" and asserted \"Here in Los Angeles, for years now Rubin has been escorted out of far more Jewish events than he’s ever been invited in to.\"\n\nIn 1985, Alex Odeh, the local chairman of the pro-Palestinian American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC) was killed by a bomb while opening the door to his Santa Ana, California office. Rubin was suspected, and further antagonized his opponents by saying that \"Odeh got what he deserved.\" However, the JDL insisted the attack was committed by others. The FBI was unable to prove its original allegations. The crime remains unsolved. The investigation of Rubin was headed by FBI special agent Mary Hogan, the same agent who signed the affidavit accusing Rubin of planning to destroy government property and other targets in 2001.\n\nBefore joining the Libertarian Party in 2000, Irv Rubin was an active Republican, and served as a page at the 1964 Republican National Convention, at which Barry Goldwater was nominated to run for the presidency. Irv Rubin’s joining the Libertarian Party was greeted with shock by many members because of the allegations of terrorism against both the JDL and Rubin himself. Membership requires a pledge to not \"initiate force.\" In June 2001, Rubin let it be known that he was considering running for governor of California on the Libertarian ticket, renewing controversies among libertarians.\n\nTo attempt disruption of the events, Rubin regularly attended rallies held by the KKK and Aryan Nations. He often brought some of his followers to assist. During the civil suit brought by the SPLC against the Aryan Nations founder and Pastor Richard Butler held in Coeur d' Alene, Idaho, in 2000, Rubin stayed for at least 4 days holding vigil during the proceedings. He frequently spoke out against Butler and his followers who were also holding vigil.\n\nRubin also made a number of televised appearances during his lifetime. These include a lively 1988 debate on \"Crossfire\" with black nationalist Steve Cokely, shortly following a controversial lecture that Cokely gave in which he stated his belief that Jewish doctors were inoculating black babies with the HIV virus , appearing on the History Channel documentary , and a memorable October 22, 1997, appearance on the \"Jerry Springer Show\" where he and his bodyguards scuffled with members of the Ku Klux Klan after he attacked a member of the KKK who mocked him by removing his hood to reveal a yarmulke. \n\nOn December 12, 2001, Irv Rubin, JDL Chairman, and Earl Krugel, a member of the organization, were charged with conspiracy to bomb private and government property. The two allegedly were caught in the act of planning bomb attacks against the King Fahd Mosque in Culver City, California, and on the office of U.S. Representative Darrell Issa, who is of Lebanese and Czech descent. The two were arrested as part of a sting operation after an FBI informant named Danny Gillis delivered explosives to Krugel's home in L.A.\n\nThe JDL claims that Danny Gillis struck a deal with the FBI to neutralize the JDL by infiltrating the organization and by arranging criminal charges of its leadership. However, according to the Jewish Journal of Los Angeles, Gillis was a former JDL member who joined the organization due to conflicts with white skinheads.\n\nOn February 4, 2003, Earl Krugel, Rubin's first lieutenant, pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges stemming from the plot. This plea was later withdrawn by the presiding Judge, and he was charged with additional crimes which, if convicted, could result in a 55-year imprisonment in a federal penitentiary. The plea bargain was apparently reinstated in late September 2005, and the 62-year-old Krugel was sentenced to 20 years in federal detention, after an initial plea agreement based on his revealing the names of those involved in the Alex Odeh bomb plot was withdrawn. On November 4, 2005, he was killed by an inmate after having been transferred to a Phoenix federal prison. Another inmate struck Krugel on the head from behind with a cement block.\n\nIn November 2002, while imprisoned at the Metropolitan Detention Center in Los Angeles awaiting trial, Rubin's throat was cut and then he tumbled off an 18- to 20-foot balcony. He had been threatening suicide in the days before. The injuries from the fall resulted in his death at Los Angeles County General Hospital several days later. Some people consider the circumstances surrounding his death to be suspicious, and Rubin's wife demanded an investigation. But defense attorney Mark Werksman said that Rubin had been despondent for months, losing 40 pounds, and that the pressure of an upcoming trial \"may have pushed him over the top.\" The Rubin family launched a wrongful death suit against the government.\n\n"}
{"id": "58519711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58519711", "title": "Jim Baillie", "text": "Jim Baillie\n\nJames Baillie (8 June 1902 – date of death unknown) was a Scottish professional footballer.\n\nBorn in Hamilton, Baillie played for local youth side Wishaw before joining Derry Celtic. In 1926, he joined Football League First Division side Cardiff City. However, with several established players such as Fred Keenor and Harry Wake in the side, Baillie struggled to break into the first team. He made his professional debut on 25 September 1926 in a 2–0 defeat to Manchester United but made only three further appearances during the 1926–27 season. The following year, he made just one appearance during a 5–1 defeat to West Ham United, his last appearance for the first team.\n\nHe joined Fulham in 1930 before returning to Scotland a year later and signing for Dundee United. He made his debut for the club in a 2–2 draw with Falkirk on 7 November 1931, making four further appearances for the club before being released in 1932.\n"}
{"id": "308367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=308367", "title": "Jim Gray (computer scientist)", "text": "Jim Gray (computer scientist)\n\nJames Nicholas Gray (born 1944; disappeared 2007) was an American computer scientist who received the Turing Award in 1998 \"for seminal contributions to database and transaction processing research and technical leadership in system implementation\".\n\nGray was born in San Francisco, the second child of Ann Emma Sanbrailo, who was a teacher and James Able Gray, who was in the U.S. Army; the family moved to Rome where Gray spent most of the first three years of his life, learning to speak Italian before English. The family then moved to Virginia, spending about four years there, until Gray's parents divorced, after which he returned to San Francisco with his mother. His father, an amateur inventor, patented a design for a ribbon cartridge for typewriters that earned him a substantial royalty stream.\n\nAfter being turned down for the Air Force Academy he entered the University of California, Berkeley as a freshman in 1961. To help pay for college he worked as a co-op for General Dynamics, where he learned to use a Monroe calculator. Discouraged by his chemistry grades, he left Berkeley for six months, returning after an experience in industry he later described as \"dreadful\". Gray earned his B.S. in Engineering Mathematics (Math and Statistics) in 1966.\n\nAfter marrying, Gray moved with his wife Loretta to New Jersey, his wife's home state; she got a job as a teacher and he got one at Bell Labs working on a digital simulation that was to be part of Multics. At Bell, he worked three days a week and spent two days as a Master's student at New York University's Courant Institute. After a year they traveled for several months before settling again in Berkeley, where Gray entered graduate school with Michael A. Harrison as his advisor. In 1969 he received his Ph.D. in programming languages, then did two years of post-doctoral work for IBM.\n\nWhile at Berkeley, Gray and Loretta had a daughter; they were later divorced. His second wife was Donna Carnes.\n\nGray pursued his career primarily working as a researcher and software designer at a number of industrial companies, including IBM, Tandem Computers, and DEC. He joined Microsoft in 1995 and was a Technical Fellow for the company\nuntil he was lost at sea in 2007.\n\nGray contributed to several major database and transaction processing systems. IBM's System R was the precursor of the SQL relational databases that have become a standard throughout the world. For Microsoft, he worked on TerraServer-USA and Skyserver.\n\nAmong his best known achievements are:\n\nHe assisted in the development of Virtual Earth. He was also one of the co-founders of the Conference on Innovative Data Systems Research.\n\nGray, an experienced sailor, owned a forty-foot yacht. On January 28, 2007 he failed to return from a short solo trip to the Farallon Islands near San Francisco to scatter his mother's ashes.\nThe weather was clear, and no distress call was received, nor was any signal detected from the boat's automatic Emergency Position-Indicating Radio Beacon.\n\nA four-day Coast Guard search using planes, helicopters, and boats found nothing.\nOn February 1, 2007, the DigitalGlobe satellite did a scan of the area and the thousands of images were posted to Amazon Mechanical Turk. Students, colleagues, and friends of Gray, and computer scientists around the world formed a \"Jim Gray Group\" to study these images for clues.\nOn February 16 this search was suspended, and an underwater search using sophisticated equipment ended May 31.\n\nThe University of California, Berkeley and Gray's family hosted a tribute on May 31, 2008. Microsoft's WorldWide Telescope software is dedicated to Gray. In 2008, Microsoft opened a research center in Madison, Wisconsin, named after Jim Gray.\nOn January 28, 2012 Gray was declared legally dead.\n\nEach year, Microsoft Research presents the Jim Gray eScience Award to a researcher who has made an outstanding contribution to the field of data-intensive computing. Award recipients are selected for their ground-breaking, fundamental contributions to the field of eScience. Previous award winners include Alex Szalay (2007), Carole Goble (2008), Jeff Dozier (2009), Phil Bourne (2010), Mark Abbott (2011), Antony John Williams (2012), and Dr. David Lipman, M.D. (2013).\n\n\n(Proceedings) May 31, 2008\n"}
{"id": "6887308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6887308", "title": "John Hicklenton", "text": "John Hicklenton\n\nJohn Hicklenton (8 May 1967 – 19 March 2010), aka John Deadstock, was a British comics artist best known for his brutal, visceral work on flagship \"2000 AD\" characters like \"Judge Dredd\" (in particular \"Heavy Metal Dredd\") and \"Nemesis the Warlock\" during the Eighties and Nineties.\n\nHe suffered from multiple sclerosis and recorded an award-winning documentary about living with the condition. On 19 March 2010, Hicklenton chose to end his life at Dignitas in Switzerland.\n\nHicklenton got his first break when he realised a friend at college was Ron Smith's daughter so he made her a Judge Dredd Christmas card.\n\nHowever, regular work remained elusive until, on the advice of his mother, he phoned Pat Mills directly and their working relationship developed from there. He did other work with Mills including a strip in the now defunct CoolBeansWorld site. He also drew \"ZombieWorld\" (as John Deadstock) for Dark Horse Comics, who commissioned him because, as Mills has said \"John is the ultimate horror artist ... I defy anyone to show me an artist whose monsters are more grotesque, whose zombies have a more ghastly look in their eye.\"\n\nHe was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in 2000. \"Here's Johnny\", a documentary about his illness produced by Animal Monday, launched at the Science Museum on 30 January 2008, followed by its world première at the South by Southwest film festival in Austin, Texas. It got its television debut on \"More4\" on 17 February 2009. The film took over 5 years to make and documents his brave and often humorous battle against MS. The film was favourably reviewed by the \"British Medical Journal\" and in 2008 won an unprecedented two Grierson Awards for \"Best Newcomer\" and \"Best Arts Documentary\".\n\nHe continued to draw, working on projects like \"Sand\" for Renegade Arts Entertainment, and also focused on bringing multiple sclerosis as a disease to the public's attention in order to help its sufferers fight for better treatment and research from the medical community. In his final year he wrote and illustrated his graphic novel, 100 Months (published by Cutting Edge Press), which he finished the day before he died.\n\nOn 23 March 2010 Pat Mills announced via the \"2000 AD\" forums that Hicklenton had died the previous week following his battle with multiple sclerosis. Hicklenton had travelled to Switzerland and died on 19 March at Dignitas.\n\nComic work includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29801901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29801901", "title": "John Till Allingham", "text": "John Till Allingham\n\nJohn Till Allingham (–1812) was an English dramatist.\nAllingham was the son of a wine merchant in the city of London. He was brought up to the profession of the law, but is known as a successful and prolific dramatist. In his \"Life of John Kemble\" (1825), James Boaden suggested his early death was caused by drinking.\n\nAllingham's afterpiece, \"Fortune's Frolic\", first produced at Covent Garden Theatre in 1799, long enjoyed popularity, and the leading character Robin Roughhead wasplayed by celebrated actors. His second play, \"Tis all a Farce\", was produced at the Haymarket Theatre in 1800. Others of his works were: the \"Marriage Promise\", a comedy with music by Michael Kelly, produced at Drury Lane Theatre 1803; \"Mrs. Wiggins\", a farce in two acts, produced at the Haymarket in 1803; \"Hearts of Oak\", a comedy, produced at Drury Lane in 1803; \"The Weathercock\", a farce, produced at Drury Lane in 1805; the \"Romantic Lover\", a comedy, produced at Covent Garden in 1806, and \"damned\", wrote John Genest.\n\nPlays attributed to Allingham include: \"Who wins? or the Widow's Choice\", a musical farce, produced at Covent Garden in 1808; \"Independence, or the Trustee\", produced at Covent Garden in 1809; \"Transformation, or Love and Law\", a musical farce, produced by the Drury Lane company at the Lyceum Theatre in 1810. Much of the success of Allingham's plays was due to the ability and popularity of Charles Mathews. George Henry Harlow painted a portrait of the actor as Mr. Wiggins in the farce of \"Mrs. Wiggins\".\n\nAllingham died aged 36 and was buried in March 1812 at Bunhill Fields.\n"}
{"id": "8241695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8241695", "title": "Joshua Fry", "text": "Joshua Fry\n\nColonel Joshua Fry (1699–1754) was a surveyor, adventurer, mapmaker, soldier, and member of the House of Burgesses, the legislature of the colony of Virginia. He is best known for collaborating with Peter Jefferson, the father of future U.S. president Thomas Jefferson, on an influential map of Virginia in 1752, and being the immediate predecessor of George Washington as commanding officer of the Virginia Regiment, a key unit in the military developments that led to the outbreak of the French and Indian War.\n\nBorn in Crewkerne, Somerset, England, he moved to Essex County, Virginia as a young man to marry the wealthy widow Mary Micou Hill, who bore him five children who grew to adulthood: John, Henry, Martha, William, and Margaret. He was educated at Oxford, and after his arrival from England was made professor of natural philosophy and mathematics at the College of William & Mary. He was afterward a member of the House of Burgesses, and served on the commission appointed to determine the Virginia and North Carolina boundary-line. \n\nIn 1743-1744 Fry and his family moved to what is now Albemarle County, Virginia to claim unclaimed plots of land and take advantage of surveying opportunities. There he built a house called Viewmont that sat on a plantation bordering the Hardware River. He was a colonel of militia and a member of the governor's council in 1750, and in 1752 was a commissioner to treat with the Indians at Logtown. Fry, along with fellow member of the \"Loyal Land Company\", Peter Jefferson, created the Maryland-Virginia \"Fry-Jefferson Map\" in 1752. \n\nIn the early days of the French and Indian War, Fry was given the title of Commander-in-Chief of colonial forces, and given command of the Virginia Regiment and was ordered to take Fort Duquesne, then held by the French. During the advance into the Ohio Country, Fry suddenly fell off his horse and died from his injuries on 31 May 1754 at Fort Cumberland, Maryland. A young Virginia officer, George Washington, succeeded Fry in command of the regiment. James Innes of North Carolina briefly succeeded Fry as Commander-in-Chief. Joshua Fry is buried in an unmarked grave within the Rose Hill Cemetery in Cumberland, Maryland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11635893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11635893", "title": "Jovian (fiction)", "text": "Jovian (fiction)\n\nIn science fiction, a Jovian is an inhabitant of the planet Jupiter.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37209835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37209835", "title": "János Imreffy", "text": "János Imreffy\n\nJános Imreffy de Szerdahely (\"Imreffi\"; c. 1559-60 – 9 July 1611) was a Hungarian soldier and noble in the Principality of Transylvania, who served as Chancellor of Transylvania from Spring 1610 to his death on 9 July 1611. He was a member of the Imreffy family of old origin.\n\nJános Imreffy was a grandson of Mihály Imreffy, castellan of Buda. His parents were János, Sr. and Margit Forgách de Ghymes et Gács. He inhretied Diószeg (today: \"Sládkovičovo, Slovakia\") from his mother. He moved to Transylvania at young age. He married Kata Iffjú, daughter of János Iffjú, a member of the Transylvanian Royal Council and Margit Majláth. Due to that marriage, he became relative to the Báthory de Somlyó family, because his wife was half-sister of Balthasar Báthory, Stephen Báthory (father of Gabriel Báthory) and Cardinal Andrew Báthory. Imreffy also became the lord of Alvinc (today: \"Vinţu de Jos, Romania\").\n\nIn 1593, he served envoy of Sigismund Báthory to Christoph Teuffenbach, Captain General of Kassa (today: \"Košice, Slovakia\"). After 1598, he moved to the \"Partium\" where served as familiar of Judge royal Stephen Báthory de Ecsed. There he met Gabriel Báthory for the first time. Imreffy joined to Stephen Bocskay's War of Independence and became a member of the Royal Council. He also functioned as the treasurer of Bocskay's army in the summer of 1605. He successfully crushed the rebellion of Serb militia in Lippa (today: \"Lipova, Romania\").\n\nHe had an active role in the election of Gabriel Báthory as Prince of Transylvania in 1608. Since then he served as President of the Royal Council. After the betrayal of István Kendi, who tried to murder Prince Gabriel, Imreffy was appointed Chancellor of Transylvania. Soon, the Transylvanian Civil War broke out. He was killed in the Battle of Brassó (today: \"Brașov, Romania\") against Radu Şerban in 1611.\n\n"}
{"id": "48413749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48413749", "title": "Kelemedi Bulewa", "text": "Kelemedi Bulewa\n\nKelemedi Rakuve Bulewa (May 16, 1951 – 2004) was a Fijian lawyer and former politician, who served as Attorney General of Fiji from 1992 to 1996. \n\nBulewa was known for his strongly pro-ethnic Fijian views and was often associated with the nationalist Taukei movement that was supportive of the 1987 coups. \n\nBulewa was elected to the House of Representatives in the 1992 election, the first post-coup election, and was appointed Attorney General later that year upon the resignation of Apaitia Seru.\n\nBulewa disagreed with, and attempted to change, laws dating from colonial times, that repressed the practice of the pre-Christian Fijian religion, saying that while he was not advocating it, he believed that freedom to practice it should be allowed for. Although most Fijians were now Christians, he said, many had only reluctantly abandoned worship of their ancestral gods.\n\nBulewa was supportive of calls for the dependency of Rotuma to be given self-government.\n"}
{"id": "26072497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26072497", "title": "List of cemeteries in New Zealand", "text": "List of cemeteries in New Zealand\n\nThis is a list of some of the cemeteries in New Zealand.\n\n\nalso Kaurihorore, Onerahi, Kamo, Ngunguru, Whangarei Heads, Kioreroa, Mission Ground, Whananaki, Marua\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48654589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48654589", "title": "List of disasters in New York City by death toll", "text": "List of disasters in New York City by death toll\n\nThis is a list of disasters in New York City by death toll.\n\n1918 Malbone Street Wreck 93-102 fatalities\n"}
{"id": "6332678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6332678", "title": "Luisel Ramos", "text": "Luisel Ramos\n\nLuisel Ramos (12 April 1984 – August 2, 2006) was a Uruguayan model.\n\nOn August 2, 2006, at 9:15 p.m., Ramos died of heart failure caused by anorexia nervosa while participating in a fashion show during Fashion Week in Montevideo, Uruguay. Ramos had felt ill after walking the runway and subsequently fainted on her way back to the dressing room. She died at the age of 22. Ramos' father told police that she had gone \"several days\" without eating. She was reported to have adopted a diet of lettuce and Diet Coke for the three months before her death. At the time of her death she had a body mass index (BMI) of just 14.5. She weighed 44 kg (96.8 lbs) at a height of 1.75 m (5 ft 9 in). The World Health Organization classifies a BMI of under 16 as severe thinness.\n\nIn the wake of Ramos' death, Madrid Fashion Week (held in September 2006) set a minimum BMI of 18 for all models. In December that year, Italian fashion designers banned size zero models from walking down their catwalks. \n\nOn February 13, 2007, Luisel's 18-year-old sister Eliana Ramos, also a model, died at her grandparents' home in Montevideo of an apparent heart attack, believed to be related to malnutrition.\n\nThe sisters' father, Luis Ramos, is a former soccer player for the Uruguayan national football team.\n\nHer remains are buried at Cementerio del Buceo, Montevideo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "443556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=443556", "title": "Monster (2003 film)", "text": "Monster (2003 film)\n\nMonster is a 2003 biographical crime drama film written and directed by Patty Jenkins. The film is about serial killer Aileen Wuornos, a former prostitute who was executed in Florida in 2002 for killing six men (she was not tried for a seventh murder) in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Wuornos was played by Charlize Theron; her semi-fictionalized lover, Selby Wall (based on Wuornos's real-life girlfriend Tyria Moore), was played by Christina Ricci.\n\nTheron received critical acclaim and won numerous awards for her portrayal, including the Academy Award for Best Actress, Golden Globe Award for Best Actress and the Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Lead Actress. \"Monster\" was produced by Denver & Delilah Films and K/W Productions and distributed by Newmarket Films.\n\nIn 1989, after moving from Michigan to Daytona Beach, Florida, prostitute Aileen Wuornos meets Selby Wall in a gay bar. Although she is initially hostile and declares that she is not gay, Aileen talks to Selby over a drink of beer. Selby takes to Aileen almost immediately, as she likes that she is very protective of her. Selby invites Aileen to spend the night with her. The two women return to the house where Selby is staying (temporarily exiled by her parents following the accusation from another girl that Selby tried to kiss her). They later agree to meet at a roller skating rink, and they kiss for the first time. Aileen and Selby fall in love, but they have nowhere to go, so Selby goes back to her aunt's home.\n\nAfter being violently sexually assaulted and brutalized by a client, Vincent Corey, Aileen kills him in self-defense and decides to quit prostitution. She confesses her actions to Selby, who has been angry with her for her failure to support both of them. Aileen struggles to find legitimate work, but because of her lack of qualifications and criminal history, prospective employers reject her and are occasionally openly hostile. Desperate for money, Aileen returns to prostitution. She robs and kills her johns, each killed in a more brutal way than the last, as she is convinced that they are all trying to rape her. She spares one man out of pity when he admits he has never had sex with a prostitute, but eventually kills another man who, instead of exploiting her, offers help. Aileen uses the money she stole from her victims to support herself and Selby.\n\nHowever, Selby reads in the newspapers about the string of murders, and she begins to suspect that Aileen may have committed them. She confronts Aileen, who justifies her actions by claiming she had only been protecting herself. Horrified, Selby returns to Ohio on a charter bus. The night of her arrest, Aileen is approached by two bounty hunters luring her outside to hand her to the cops. Thomas, whom Aileen always referred to as the only friend she had, tries to save her from getting arrested by stealing her away from the two men that approached her. Thomas offers to drive her off but Aileen declines, no longer trusting herself with the well-being of anyone dear to her. Aileen is eventually arrested at a biker bar and speaks to Selby one last time while in jail. Selby reveals some incriminating information over the telephone and Aileen realizes that the police are listening in. To protect Selby and Thomas, Aileen admits that she committed the murders alone. During Aileen's trial, Selby testifies against her, with Aileen's loving consent. Aileen is convicted of the murders and sentenced to death. On October 9, 2002, Aileen is executed by lethal injection.\n\n\nFilm critics praised \"Monster\"; most gave overwhelmingly high praise to Theron's performance as a mentally ill woman – Wuornos had antisocial personality disorder and borderline personality disorder. For the role, Theron gained , shaved her eyebrows, and wore prosthetic teeth. Critics called her performance, and her makeup, a \"transformation\". Film critic Roger Ebert named it best film of the year, and wrote \"What Charlize Theron achieves in Patty Jenkins' 'Monster' isn't a performance but an embodiment... [It] is one of the greatest performances in the history of the cinema.\" Ricci's performance also drew some praise, but was not without criticism. In his review for the film, Ebert praised her performance, stating \"Christina Ricci finds the right note for Selby Wall – so correct some critics have mistaken it for bad acting, when in fact it is sublime acting in its portrayal of a bad actor. She plays Selby as clueless, dim, in over her head, picking up cues from moment to moment, cobbling her behavior out of notions borrowed from bad movies, old songs, and barroom romances\".\n\nHowever, several people who knew Aileen, criticised the movie for portraying her as a victim and portraying her victims as villains.\n\nTheron won the Academy Award for Best Actress, Golden Globe Award for and the SAG Award for her performance.\n\nIn 2009, Ebert named it the third best film of the decade. Review website Rotten Tomatoes reports that 81% of critics gave the film a positive review, with a \"Certified Fresh\" and an average score of 7.2/10. The site's critical consensus states: \"Charlize Theron gives a searing, deglamorized performance as real life serial killer Aileen Wuornos in \"Monster\", an intense, disquieting portrait of a profoundly damaged soul.\"\n\nIn 2004, BT released a soundtrack to the film. Included with the release is a DVD featuring all fifteen original cues, and an additional nine cues that would not fit on the CD, as well as an interview with BT and Patty Jenkins, and remix files for \"Ferris Wheel\".\n\nAll songs written by BT.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5597461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5597461", "title": "Monster Rancher 3", "text": "Monster Rancher 3\n\nMonster Rancher 3 (known in Japan as ) is the third game in Tecmo's Monster Rancher series. It is the first game in the \"Monster Rancher\" series for the PlayStation 2.\n\nThis game uses cel-shaded graphics to give the game a more cartoon-like feel. However, the player may still generate monsters by inserting a disc into the PS2. Furthermore, \"Monster Rancher 3\" is the first game in the series to allow players the ability to generate monsters based on past discs, as well as monsters already bred. As an example, once a monster has been bred, from that point on one can simply generate them from their Monster Encyclopedia, saving the gamer unnecessary time and trouble having to remember and find discs that generated various monsters. Also, \"Monster Rancher 3\" is the first and currently only \"Monster Rancher\" game to allow players to trade monster data. By inserting memory cards for both players, it is possible to transfer monsters in one player's Monster Encyclopedia to another player's file.\n\nA young Tochikan girl who serves as your guide throughout the story. Never leaving your side, she acts as though you couldn't possibly survive without her help, but it is revealed that she needed your help to become a breeder in the first place. She is somewhat bossy, but is kind nonetheless. She harbors a dislike for Gadamon and was mentored by \"Ms.\" Jenna.\n\nBragma is Fleria's grandfather who runs the Monster Shrine. He is slightly stubborn, but wise. He has a past which he seems a little embarrassed by.\n\nA peddler. He sells various items and is the messenger to tell the player about regions which he/she has unlocked.\n\nFleria's rival. Very arrogant, and often shows up merely to antagonise the two of you. She is a breeder also, and so challenges you to fights every so often.\n\nTwo young sisters whom Fleria used to be friends with. They have held a grudge against her for years about various types of food.\n\nA rich, spoiled, slightly arrogant man who offers to buy land from the player for 10,000 g. Despite his arrogance, he does turn out to be a good man.\n\nA young breeder who considers the player and Fleria worthy rivals. Despite her politeness, Fleria seems to dislike her.\n\nAn experienced breeder who knows the area well. She appears very elderly and has a somewhat romantic past with Bragma. Her nephew is Taz.\n\nA seemingly cocky yet decent young male breeder. He is particularly fond of Beaklons, which causes problems for Fleria and the player. He is Mosha's nephew.\n\nA very uncofident new female breeder whom Fleria dislikes, claiming that she makes her \"tired.\"\n\nA laidback male breeder whom Fleria appears to like. Despite his laidback nature, he gets very upset about losing. He appears to have some sort of connection with Jimsey.\n\nSansha is a young female breeder who uses the area used by the player as a fishing area. She seems to pay more attention to fishing than to breeding. Her monster names generally only have two letters (i.e. Mo).\n\nA strange and sneaky boy who loves money. At a point in the game, he steals from the player, but he turns out to be decent.\n\nA very serious male breeder who is very fond of Fleria. He is pursuing a \"bad monster trainer.\" He was mentored by Lus.\n\nA laidback yet feisty female breeder. She, like Haz, is pursuing a \"bad monster trainer,\" which makes her attack the player and Fleria, but she makes amends with them.\n\nAn old man and native of Takrama. Haz's mentor. He is originally thought to be the bad monster trainer, but the accusation is false. He seems to like golems.\n\nA good-natured and generous young female breeder. Taya's older sister. Her family owns the land that the player uses to train. She was attacked by the \"modified monster.\"\n\nOriginally an extremely shy young boy, after battling with the player and Fleria, he becomes more outgoing. He is Maya's younger brother. He was attacked by the modified monster.\n\nA scientist in the field of monster modification. He created a mysterious Zan monster, which causes people trouble. He appears to be a bit naive.\n\nBurn, also known as Lord Burn, is a somewhat arrogant yet decent breeder who has some connection with Jenna.\n\nAn experienced breeder who was Fleria's mentor. She appears protective of Fleria, though she is not afraid to start a fight.\n\nA bad character who is connected to a \"Joker\" monster. Jenna cautions against him, though Fleria doesn't listen.\n\nAn unknown man who is strongly connected to the monster, Joker. He is some kind of a friend to Kai.\n\nMaking up for the loss of the combination system is the ability of monsters to adapt to their surroundings. Though only one is available at the start of the game, the five different homes that you can raise your monster in represent five climates, each with its own training regimes, features, and food.\n\nMorx, the first region you will train in, is a clearing in a forest centered around a gargantuan tree. The grassy area is covered with mushrooms, allowing the monster to train by interacting with the tree and the fungi.\n\nTakrama, an oasis in the middle of a barren desert, features rocky terrain, cacti, and dust storms with which to test your monster. It is noted that this is the harshest environment for monsters.\n\nBrillia, a frozen tundra, is filled with snow, seals, and icicles. A lone tree sits near the end of the area.\n\nKalaragi, a bright rainforest, centers around a giant waterfall (known in-game as Umbagi, but rarely referred to by its name). A cliff path leads behind the waterfall Umbagi up to a ledge, and there is a giant lilypad accompanied by a similarly large lotus flower. Crocodiles inhabit the water. *Note: There is a bug in Kalaragi. If you lose to Gadamon, Sansha will direct you to a place near the \"Lord\" Monster. If you search the area, Fleria will direct you to another spot, and the storyline will halt.\n\nGoat, the oddly named underwater sanctuary, allows you to raise your monster underwater. The waters of Goat are extremely high in oxygen, explaining why and how you and your monsters have no trouble living under the sea.\n\nEach monster is affiliated with one of these regions, and has subspecies corresponding to each climate and area. For instance, the Suezo - a monster normally inclined to Takrama – also has a subspecies for Goat, the sharklike Fukazo.\n\nWhen a monster of one subspecies is raised in another area, after a time, they will mature. If they have been fed with enough of the regional food, they will adapt to their surroundings and change subspecies. For example, if a Morx Mocchi is raised in Brillia, and fed enough of Brillia's local food, the Mocchi will adapt to its surroundings, turning blue and white to blend in with its new home, and become a Brillian Mocchi.\n\nThe game received \"generally favorable reviews\", albeit less than the previous two games in the series, according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.\n"}
{"id": "28787734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28787734", "title": "Muhammadu Kudu Abubakar", "text": "Muhammadu Kudu Abubakar\n\nMuhammadu Kudu Abubakar Ubandoma III (died 30 March 2014) was appointed Etsu (Ruler) of the Agaie Emirate, a traditional state based in Agaie in Niger State, Nigeria on 30 April 2004.\n\nAbubakar, who was 42 when appointed Emir, is the son of the 10th Emir of Agaie, Alhaji Abdullahi Bello Ubandoma.\nHe earned a Higher Diploma in Animal Health and Husbandry and a Postgraduate Diploma in Public Administration from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria.\nHe is grand patron of the Nuhu Lafarma (Education) Foundation, which promotes improved education in the Agaie Emriate. \nHe is one of the promoters of formation of a new Edu State from parts of the current Niger and Kwara states as a homeland for the Nupe people, with capital at Bida.\nThe movement is led by the Emir of Bida, Abubakar Yahaya, and is also supported by the Etsu Lapai, Umar Baogo III.\n\nIn January 2010 Abubakar conferred the honorary title of \"Badakoshin Agaie\" on the Niger State governor Muazu Babangida Aliyu.\nIn July 2010 he was attacked in Agaie by an angry mob who accused him of siding with the police after local people had tried to prevent police from pursuing suspected criminals. In the ensuing violence one person was killed, and later the mob carried his body to the Etsu's palace.\n"}
{"id": "45529490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45529490", "title": "Murder of Ryōta Uemura", "text": "Murder of Ryōta Uemura\n\nPrior to his death, Uemura had apparently been refusing to commit crimes for a group of older boys with whom he spent time, and wanted to cut ties with them. At the time of his death, his mother was working as a nurse to support her children.\n\nUemura was well known among his friends as a cheerful boy. When he stopped going to school, his teacher called his parents to see if anything was wrong. After his parents divorced, his mother raised him and his four siblings.\n\nJapanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe expressed his condolences to the victim's family and vowed that Japan should not have another similar tragedy. It was the third shocking incident in 2015, after a 19-year-old college student killed 77-year-old Tomoko Mori. On March 5, 2015, after Uemura's mother released statements about her son's death, the three boys previously arrested were charged with murder.\n\n"}
{"id": "7739904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7739904", "title": "Offences Against the Person Act", "text": "Offences Against the Person Act\n\nOffences Against the Person Act (with its variations) is a stock short title used for legislation in the United Kingdom, in the Republic of Ireland, in Hong Kong, in New Zealand, in Tasmania and in Antigua and Barbuda, relating to offences against the person. It seems to have been derived from the long title of the Act which has come to be known as the Offences Against the Person Act 1828. It is sometimes abbreviated to OAPA, as in \"OAPA 1861\".\n\nThe Bill for an Act with this short title will have been known as a Offences Against the Person Bill during its passage through Parliament.\n\n\"Offences Against the Person Acts\" may be a generic name either for legislation bearing that short title or for all legislation which relates to offences against the person. It is not a term of art.\n\n\n\nThe Offences against the Person Ordinances 1865 and 1913 is the collective title of the Offences against the Person Ordinance 1865 and the Offences against the Person (Amendment) Ordinance 1913.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29479912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29479912", "title": "Olson's Extinction", "text": "Olson's Extinction\n\nOlson's Extinction was a mass extinction that occurred in the early Guadalupian of the Permian period and which predated the Permian–Triassic extinction event. Everett C. Olson noted that there was a hiatus and a sudden change in between the early Permian and middle/late Permian faunas. Since then this event has been realized across many groups, including plants, marine invertebrates, and tetrapods.\n\nThe first evidence of extinction came when Everett C. Olson noted a hiatus between early Permian faunas dominated by pelycosaurs and therapsid dominated faunas of the middle and late Permian. First considered to be a preservational gap in the fossil record, the event was originally dubbed 'Olson's Gap'. To compound the difficulty in identifying the cause of the 'gap', researchers were having difficulty in resolving the uncertainty which exists regarding the duration of the overall extinction and about the timing and duration of various groups' extinctions within the greater process. Theories emerged which suggested the extinction was prolonged, spread out over a several million years or that multiple extinction pulses preceded the Permian–Triassic extinction event. The impact of Olson's Extinction amplified the effects of the Permian–Triassic extinction event and the final extinction killed off only about 80% of species alive at that time while the other losses occurred during the first pulse or the interval between pulses.\n\nDuring the 1990s and 2000s researchers gathered evidence on the biodiversity of plants, marine organism and tetrapods that indicated an extinction pulse preceding the Permian–Triassic extinction event had a profound impact on life on land. On land Sahney and Benton showed that even discounting the sparse fossil assemblages from the extinction period, the event can be confirmed by the stages of time bracketing the event since well preserved sections of the fossil record from both before and after the event have been found and they referred to the event as 'Olson's Extinction'. The 'Gap' was finally closed in 2012 when Michael Benton confirmed that the terrestrial fossil record of the Middle Permian is well represented by fossil localities in the American southwest and European Russia and that the gap is not an artifact of a poor rock record since there is no correlation between geological and biological records of the Middle Permian.\n\nDespite the closure of Olson's Gap, the presence of an extinction event at the Kungurian/Roadian boundary was still disputed. It was argued that the observed decrease in diversity might be due to the shift in the location of greatest sample size from the palaeo-equatorial to the palaeo-temperate regions: equatorial regions tend to have a higher diversity in most modern groups. However, a thorough review of the tetrapod-bearing formations during the Kungurian and the Roadian found evidence that the faunal turnover at this time is not a result of the shift in sampling locality; the early Permian temperate faunas are more similar to the early Permian equatorial faunas than the middle Permian temperate faunas. It was also shown that throughout the Permian, the highest diversity was found in temperate regions rather the equatorial, and therefore the fall in diversity could not be due to increased sampling of temperate latitudes.\n\nThere is no widely accepted theory for the cause of Olson's Extinction. Recent research has indicated that climate change may be a possible cause. Extreme environments were observed from the Permian of Kansas which resulted from a combination of hot climate and acidic waters particularly coincident with Olson’s Extinction. Whether this climate change was a result of Earth's natural processes or exacerbated by another event is unknown.\n\nPlants showed large turnover in the mid-to-late Permian and into the Triassic. The duration of higher extinction rates (>60%) in land plants was about 23.4 Myr, starting from Olson's Extinction and into the early Middle Triassic.\nOlson's Extinction represents the third highest peak of extinction rates seen in plants throughout the Paleozoic, and the number of genera fell by 25%.\n. The extinction was particularly severe among free-sporing plants; seed plants seem to have been largely unaffected.\n\nThe Permian was a time of rapid change for tetrapods; in particular there was a major changeover from faunas dominated by basal synapsids (\"pelycosaurs”) and reptiliomorphs (Diadectes) to faunas dominated by therapsids (Dinocephalia, Anomodontia, Gorgonopsia, and Cynodontia) some of which were direct ancestors of mammals. In 2008 Sahney and Benton confirmed that this was not just a turnover (gradual replacement of one faunal complex by another) but a real extinction event in which a significant drop in the biodiversity of tetrapods on a global scale and community level occurred. The extinction appears to have taken place in two phases: Edaphosauridae and Ophiacodontidae died out across the Kungurian/Roadian boundary, while Caseidae and Therapsida diversified; later in the Roadian Sphenacodontidae died out and Caseidae went into decline. Olson's extinction appears to have been the highest Paleozoic peak in extinction rate observed in Eureptilia, exceeding even the End Permian mass extinction. Amphibians were also particularly hard-hit.\n\nIn December 2011, the fossilized remains of the 'youngest' pelycosaur was described by Modesto et al. as from 260 million years ago in South Africa, the first evidence that one of these animals survived Olson’s Extinction. This type of animal is called a disaster taxon, an organism that survives a major environmental disruption, perhaps forming the basis for a new adaptive radiation.\n\nExtinction rates in fish increased noticeably between the Cisuralian and the Guadalupian, the time of Olson's extinction. However, origination rates also rose, and so there does not appear to have been any substantial decrease in species richness \nUsing data on chondrichthyan diversity, Koot showed that there was little substantial decline in diversity until the Middle of the Guadalupian.\n\nFauna did not recover fully from Olson's Extinction before the impact of the Permian-Triassic extinction event. Estimates of recovery time vary, where some authors indicated recovery was prolonged, lasting 30 million years into the Triassic.\n\nSeveral important events took place during Olson's Extinction, most notably the origin of therapsids, a group that includes the evolutionary ancestors of mammals. Further research on the recently identified primitive therapsid of the Xidagou Formation (Dashankou locality) in China of Roadian age may provide more information on this topic.\n\n"}
{"id": "29873791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29873791", "title": "Principia (alga)", "text": "Principia (alga)\n\nPrincipia is a genus of alga that has been placed in the coralline stem group on the basis of its slightly differentiated thallus; it forms an \"intermediate\" between \"Hortonella\", \"Neoprincipia\" and \"Archaeolithophyllum\".\n"}
{"id": "39103726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39103726", "title": "Public Vault at the Congressional Cemetery", "text": "Public Vault at the Congressional Cemetery\n\nThe Public Vault at the Congressional Cemetery in Washington, D.C. is an early classical revival structure built 1832–34 with funds appropriated by the United States Congress to store the bodies of government officials and members of the public before burial. About 4,600 individuals were temporarily interred in the vault, including three U.S. presidents, First Lady Dolley Madison, and sixteen congressmen who died while serving in office.\n\nAs a contributing structure to the cemetery, the vault was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on June 23, 1969, and a National Historic Landmark in 2011.\n\nCongress approved an expenditure of $1,000 on July 14, 1832, to build \"a substantial brick or stone vault in the Washington Parish Burial Ground, for the temporary interment of members of Congress.\" Additional appropriations of $1,600 on March 2, 1833, and $194 on June 30, 1834, were approved to complete the vault. These two bills included the name \"Public Vault\" and allowed the use by members of the public. Use by the government was allowed without further payment, and members of the public were to be charged $5.00 per temporary use. The sexton of Christ Church was to be given $1.50 of this sum for his services, with the remainder given to the vestry of Christ Church, which owns the burial ground, \"to be expended in the improvement of the grounds and in keeping the same in order.\"\nA classical marble facade with baroque scrolls decorate the partially subterranean vault. Double wrought iron doors have the words \"PUBLIC VAULT\" displayed by means of vent holes. The vault is constructed of Aquia Creek sandstone, which was also used to construct many important early structures in Washington, including the White House, the Capitol, and the Latrobe cenotaphs in the cemetery. The vault does not have any niches or shelves to hold coffins, rather the coffins were placed on the floor and stacked if necessary.\n\nTemporary interments have included three U.S. presidents: John Quincy Adams (February 26 – March 6, 1848), William Henry Harrison (April 7 – June 26, 1841), and Zachary Taylor (July 13 – October 26, 1850). President Harrison stayed in the vault almost three months, more than twice as long as the time he spent as president.\nDolley Madison was interred in the Public Vault from July 16, 1849, to February 10, 1852, the longest known interment in the vault, while funds were being raised for her re-interment at Montpelier. Her body was transferred to the Causten family vault, directly to the west of the Public Vault, for another six years before the funds were raised. She was briefly joined in May 1852 in the Causten vault by First Lady Louisa Catherine Adams, though it has been reported that Adams was interred in the Public Vault.\nSenator John C. Calhoun was interred in the Public Vault following a formal funeral and grand procession from the Capitol on April 2, 1850. He was encased in an early version of the Fisk metallic coffin which slowed down decomposition. On April 22 his remains departed the vault for a trip by steam ship to Charleston, South Carolina. While the development of transportation and mortuary technology increased the use of the vault, it also limited its use as well. For example, following Henry Clay's death in 1852, his remains were also encased in a Fisk metallic coffin and transported to his home state by railroad without an interval at the Public Vault.\n\nOn February 29, 1844, following an explosion on the USS \"Princeton\", Secretary of State Abel P. Upshur, Secretary of the Navy Thomas Walker Gilmer, Commodore Beverly Kennon, and President John Tyler's prospective father-in-law, David Gardiner, were temporarily interred at the vault.\n\nSeveral grand public or state funeral processions ended in front of the Public Vault, after starting at the White House or the Capitol and then moving down Pennsylvania Avenue and E Street SE to the cemetery. These included the funerals for Presidents Harrison, J. Q. Adams, and Taylor; Senator Calhoun; First Ladies Dolley Madison and Louisa Adams; the victims of the USS Princeton disaster; and several other congressmen. Some of these processions were two miles long, led by military bands and troops for the funerals of military men, members of both houses of congress and the administration, and pall bearers carefully chosen for political balance to symbolize unity and stability in government.\n\nJohn Quincy Adams rode in a carriage in the funeral procession for President Harrison and wrote in his diary, \"the corpse was deposited in the receiving vault - with some difficulty from the excessive crowd, but not the slightest disorder.\n\nSouth Carolina Congressman Preston Smith Brooks lay in the Public Vault in January 1857, within a year of brutally beating Senator Charles Sumner with a cane on the floor of the Senate, an attack that is viewed as an omen of the Civil War.\n\nLegend says that Lewis Powell spent a night in the vault while avoiding pursuit for his role in the assassination of President Lincoln.\n\nWhile the Public Vault was an important, if semi-official, national memorial during its first few decades, it was used less and less during the second half of the nineteenth century and during much of the twentieth century was unused. During the twentieth century, it became unclear whether the U.S. Government or Christ Church owned the Public Vault and several dozen burial lots. In 1953 a Congressional report suggested that the government clear the record by selling the otherwise unnamed \"receiving vault\" and the burial lots to the church for $100. As late as 2003 the vault was \"empty and decaying.\" It has since been restored with funds provided by the federal government. During a c. 2010 Prohibition-based fundraiser, it was used as a cocktail bar.\n\n"}
{"id": "11946749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11946749", "title": "Respirocyte", "text": "Respirocyte\n\nRespirocytes are hypothetical, microscopic, artificial red blood cells that are intended to emulate the function of their organic counterparts, so as to supplement or replace the function of much of the human body's normal respiratory system. Respirocytes were proposed by Robert A. Freitas Jr in his 1998 paper \"A Mechanical Artificial Red Blood Cell: Exploratory Design in Medical Nanotechnology\".\n\nRespirocytes are an example of molecular nanotechnology, a field of technology still in the very earliest, purely hypothetical phase of development. Current technology is not sufficient to build a respirocyte due to considerations of power, atomic-scale manipulation, immune reaction or toxicity, computation and communication.\n\nFreitas proposed a spherical robot made up of 18 billion atoms arranged as a tiny pressure tank, which would be filled up with oxygen and carbon dioxide. \n\nIn Freitas' proposal, each respirocyte could store and transport 236 times more oxygen than a natural red blood cell, and could release it in a more controlled manner.\n\nRay Kurzweil hypothesised that such respirocytes would allow an adult human to sprint at top speed for at least 15 minutes without taking a breath.\n\nFreitas has also proposed \"microbivore\" robots that would attack pathogens in the manner of white blood cells.\n\n"}
{"id": "2755912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2755912", "title": "SERVQUAL", "text": "SERVQUAL\n\nSERVQUAL is a multi-dimensional research instrument, designed to capture consumer expectations and perceptions of a service along the five dimensions that are believed to represent service quality. SERVQUAL is built on the expectancy-disconfirmation paradigm, which in simple terms means that service quality is understood as the extent to which consumers' pre-consumption expectations of quality are confirmed or disconfirmed by their actual perceptions of the service experience. When the SERVQUAL questionnaire was first published in 1988 by a team of academic researchers, A. Parasuraman, Valarie Zeithaml and Leonard L. Berry to measure quality in the service sector, it represented a breakthrough in the measurement methods used for service quality research. The diagnostic value of the instrument is supported by the \"model of service quality\" which forms the conceptual framework for the development of the scale (i.e. instrument or questionnaire). The instrument has been widely applied in a variety of contexts and cultural settings and found to be relatively robust. It has become the dominant measurement scale in the area of service quality. In spite of the long-standing interest in SERVQUAL and its myriad of context-specific applications, it has attracted some criticism from researchers.\n\nSERVQUAL is a multidimensional research instrument (i.e. questionnaire or measurement scale) designed to measure service quality by capturing respondents’ expectations and perceptions along the five dimensions of service quality. The questionnaire consists of matched pairs of items; 22 expectation items and 22 perceptions items, organised into five dimensions which are believed to align with the consumer’s mental map of service quality dimensions. Both the expectations component and the perceptions component of the questionnaire consist a total of 22 items, comprising 4 items to capture tangibles, 5 items to capture reliability, 4 items for responsiveness, 4 items for assurance and 5 items to capture empathy. The questionnaire is designed to be administered in a face-to-face interview and requires a moderate to large size sample for statistical reliability. In practice, it is customary to add additional items such as the respondent's demographics, prior experience with the brand or category and behavioural intentions (intention to revisit/ repurchase, loyalty intentions and propensity to give word-of-mouth referrals). Thus, the final questionnaire may consist of 60+ items and typically takes at least one hour, per respondent, to administer. The length of the questionnaire combined with sample size requirements contribute to substantial costs in administration and data analysis.\n\nThe instrument which was developed over a five year period; was tested, pre-tested and refined before appearing in its final form. The instrument's developers, Parasuman, Ziethaml and Berry, claim that it is a highly reliable and valid instrument. Certainly, it has been widely used and adapted in service quality research for numerous industries and various geographic regions. In application, many researchers are forced to make minor modifications to the instrument as necessary for context-specific applications. Some researchers label their revised instruments with innovative titles such as EDUQUAL (educational context), HEALTHQUAL (hospital context) and ARTSQUAL (art museum).\n\nThe SERVQUAL questionnaire has been described as \"the most popular standardized questionnaire to measure service quality.\" It is widely used by service firms, most often in conjunction with other measures of service quality and customer satisfaction. The SERVQUAL instrument was developed as part of a broader conceptualisation of how customers understand service quality. This conceptualisation is known as the \"model of service quality\" or more popularly as the \"gaps model.\"\n\nThe model of service quality, popularly known as the \"gaps model\" was developed by a group of American authors, A. Parasuraman, Valarie A. Zeithaml and Len Berry, in a systematic research program carried out between 1983 and 1988. The model identifies the principal dimensions (or components) of service quality; proposes a scale for measuring service quality (SERVQUAL) and suggests possible causes of service quality problems. The model's developers originally identified ten dimensions of service quality, but after testing and retesting, some of the dimensions were found to be autocorrelated and the total number of dimensions was reduced to five, namely - reliability, assurance, tangibles, empathy and responsiveness. These five dimensions are thought to represent the dimensions of service quality across a range of industries and settings. Among students of marketing, the mnemonic, RATER, an acronym formed from the first letter of each of the five dimensions is often used as an aid to recall.\n\nBusinesses use the SERVQUAL instrument (i.e. questionnaire) to measure potential service quality problems and the model of service quality to help diagnose possible causes of the problem. The model of service quality is built on the \"expectancy-confirmation paradigm\" which suggests that consumers perceive quality in terms of their perceptions of how well a given service delivery meets their expectations of that delivery. Thus, service quality can be conceptualised as a simple equation:\n\nSQ = P- E\n\nWhen customer expectations are greater than their perceptions of received delivery, service quality is deemed low. When perceptions exceed expectations then service quality is high. The model of service quality identifies five gaps that may cause customers to experience poor service quality. In this model, gap 5 is the service quality gap and is the \"only\" gap that can be directly measured. In other words, the SERVQUAL instrument was specifically designed to capture gap 5. In contrast, Gaps 1-4 cannot be measured, but have diagnostic value.\n\nThe development of the model of service quality involved a systematic research undertaking which began in 1983, and after various refinements, resulted in the publication of the SERVQUAL instrument in 1988. The model's developers began with an exhaustive literature search in order to identify items that were believed to impact on perceived service quality. This initial search identified some 100 items which were used in the first rounds of consumer testing. Preliminary data analysis, using a data reduction technique known as factor analysis (also known as principal components analysis) revealed that these items loaded onto ten dimensions (or components) of service quality. The initial ten dimensions that were believed to represent service quality were:\n\n\nFurther testing suggested that some of the ten preliminary dimensions of service quality were closely related or autocorrelated. Thus the ten initial dimensions were reduced and the labels amended to accurately reflect the revised dimensions. By the early 1990s, the authors had refined the model to five factors which in testing, appear to be relatively stable and robust.\n\n\nThese are the five dimensions of service quality that form the basis of the individual items in the SERVQUAL research instrument (questionnaire). The acronym RATER, is often used to help students of marketing remember the five dimensions of quality explicitly mentioned in the research instrument. It is these five dimensions that are believed to represent the consumer's mental checklist of service quality. \n\nNyeck, Morales, Ladhari, and Pons (2002) stated the SERVQUAL measuring tool “appears to remain the most complete attempt to conceptualize and measure service quality” (p. 101). The SERVQUAL measuring tool has been used by many researchers across a wide range of service industries and contexts, such as healthcare, banking, financial services, and education (Nyeck, Morales, Ladhari, & Pons, 2002).\n\nAlthough the SERVQUAL instrument has been widely applied in a variety of industry and cross-cultural contexts, there are many criticisms of the approach. Francis Buttle published one of the most comprehensive criticisms of the model of service quality and the associated SERVQUAL instrument in 1996 in which both operational and theoretical concerns were identified. Some of the more important criticisms include:\n\nIn spite of these criticisms, the SERVQUAL instrument, or any one of its variants (i.e. modified forms), dominates current research into service quality. In a review of more than 40 articles that made use of SERVQUAL, a team of researchers found that “few researchers concern themselves with the validation of the measuring tool”. SERVQUAL is not only the subject of academic papers, but it is also widely used by industry practitioners.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22134987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22134987", "title": "Sparkie Williams", "text": "Sparkie Williams\n\nSparkie Williams (1954–1962) was a talking budgie who provided the inspiration for a new opera by Michael Nyman and Carsten Nicolai. The opera was performed in Berlin in March 2009. Sparkie had a repertoire of more than 500 words and eight nursery rhymes, becoming a national celebrity after fronting an advertising campaign for Capern’s bird seed, and making a record which sold 20,000 copies. After he died, he was stuffed and put on show at Newcastle’s Hancock Museum.\n\nHatched and bred in North East England, Sparkie was owned by Mrs. Mattie Williams, who lived in Forest Hall, near Newcastle-upon-Tyne. He earned his name after Mrs Williams called him ‘A bright little spark,' and she taught him to speak, recite songs and sing nursery rhymes. Sparkie had a huge repertoire of words and sayings. By the time he was three-and-a-half, he had won the BBC International Cage Word Contest in July 1958. He was so good, in fact, that he was disqualified from taking part again.\n\nSparkie was courted by bird seed sellers and fronted the advertisement campaign for Capern’s bird seed for two years. He was recorded talking with budgie expert Philip Marsden on BBC radio, and appeared on the BBC Tonight programme with Cliff Michelmore. When Sparkie died, he was stuffed by the best taxidermist in London and taken on a tour of Britain in an exhibition of his life and work, before coming back to the Hancock Museum in 1996. Sparkie Williams is acclaimed as the world’s most outstanding talking bird in the Guinness Book of Records.\n\nHe is now part of the collections owned by the Natural History Society of Northumbria.\n\nThe new opera inspired by Sparkie is based on Michael Nyman’s 1977 piece \"Pretty Talk\". The original piece used material from a record made by Capern’s bird-food company to help customers teach their pet birds to talk. The 7-inch flexi disc played short sentences spoken by Sparkie’s owner, Mrs Williams, to encourage her pet to speak - followed by replies from Sparkie himself. The new opera, \"Sparkie: Cage and Beyond\", features further recordings from the ‘Sparkie’ archives of the Natural History Society of Northumbria. A CD of Sparkie talking has already been released.\n\nWork on a £26 million extension and refurbishing of the Hancock Museum in Newcastle was completed in May 2009 and it has now re-opened as part of the Great North Museum. Sparkie is among the exhibits on show to visitors.\n"}
{"id": "9678449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9678449", "title": "Suicide of Kurt Cobain", "text": "Suicide of Kurt Cobain\n\nOn April 8, 1994, Kurt Cobain, the lead singer of the grunge band Nirvana, was found dead at his home in Seattle, Washington. Forensic analysis at the time determined he had died by suicide on April 5. The Seattle Police Department incident report states: \"Kurt Cobain was found with a shotgun across his body, had a visible head wound and there was a suicide note discovered nearby.\" The King County Medical Examiner noted puncture wounds on the inside of both the right and left elbow. Prior to his death, Cobain had checked out of a drug rehabilitation facility and had been reported as suicidal by his wife Courtney Love.\n\nDespite the official ruling of suicide, it has been suggested that Cobain did not actually die from suicide. Tom Grant, a private investigator hired by Love to find Cobain after his departure from drug rehabilitation, believes that Cobain was murdered as the result of a conspiracy. Grant's theory has been analyzed and questioned by several books, television shows, films, and the 2015 docudrama \"Soaked in Bleach\". Authors and filmmakers have also attempted to explain what might have happened during Cobain's final days, and what might have led him to suicide.\n\nOn April 8, 1994, Kurt Cobain was discovered in the living quarters above his garage at his Lake Washington Boulevard East house by VECA Electric employee Gary T. Smith. Smith arrived at the house that morning to install security lighting when he saw a deceased Cobain lying inside. He initially thought Cobain was asleep, until he saw blood oozing from his ear. He also found a suicide note with a pen stuck through it inside a flower pot. A shotgun purchased for Cobain by his friend Dylan Carlson was found resting on Cobain's chest. Cobain's death certificate stated that his death was a result of a \"contact perforating shotgun wound to the head\" and concluded that his death was a suicide.\n\nOn April 10, 1994, a public memorial service was held at Seattle Center, where a recording of Courtney Love reading Cobain's suicide note was played. Near the end of the vigil, Love arrived and distributed some of his clothing to fans who remained. In the following days, Love consoled and mourned with fans who came to her house.\n\nCobain's body was cremated. Love divided his ashes; she kept some in a teddy bear and some in an urn. She took another portion of his ashes to the Namgyal Buddhist Monastery in Ithaca, New York. There, some of his remains were ceremonially blessed by Buddhist monks and mixed into clay, which were used to make memorial sculptures. A final ceremony was arranged for Cobain by his mother on May 31, 1999, that was attended by both Love and Tracy Marander. A Buddhist monk chanted while his daughter, Frances Bean Cobain, scattered his ashes into McLane Creek in Olympia, Washington, the city where he \"had found his true artistic muse.\"\n\nAdvocates of the verdict of death by self-inflicted gunshot wound have cited Cobain's persistent drug addiction, clinical depression, and handwritten suicide note as conclusive proof. Members of Cobain's family also noticed patterns of depression and instability in Cobain before he achieved fame. Cobain mentioned that the stomach pains from an undiagnosed stomach condition were so severe during Nirvana's 1991 European tour that he became suicidal and stated that taking heroin was \"[his] choice\"; saying, \"This [heroin] is the only thing that's saving me from shooting myself right now.\" Cobain's cousin Beverly, a nurse, stated that the singer's family had a history of suicide, that Cobain's bipolar disorder and his struggles with drug addiction led him to suicide.\n\nIn Charles Cross's biography \"Heavier Than Heaven,\" Nirvana band member and bass guitarist Krist Novoselic is quoted on seeing Cobain in the days before his intervention: \"He was really quiet. He was just estranged from all of his relationships. He wasn't connecting with anybody.\" Novoselic's offer to buy a nice dinner for Cobain resulted in unintentionally driving him to score heroin: \"His dealer was right there. He wanted to get fucked up into oblivion ... He wanted to die, that's what he wanted to do.\" In his book \"Of Grunge and Government: Let's Fix This Broken Democracy\", Novoselic alludes to the circumstances of Cobain's death: \"Tragically, Cobain picked the wrong way to resign from the position he was thrust into.\"\n\nIn March 2014, the Seattle Police Department developed four rolls of film that had been left in an evidence vault. According to the Seattle police, the 35mm photographs depict the scene of Cobain's corpse more clearly than previous Polaroid images taken by the police. Detective Mike Ciesynski, a cold case investigator, was asked to look at the film because \"it is 20 years later and it's a high media case.\" Ciesynski stated that the official cause of Cobain's death remains suicide and that the images will not be released publicly. According to a spokesperson for the Seattle police, the department receives at least one request weekly, mostly through Twitter, to reopen the investigation. This resulted in the maintenance of the basic incident report on file.\n\nThe first to object publicly to the report of suicide was Seattle public access host Richard Lee. A week following Cobain's death, Lee aired the first episode of an ongoing series called \"Kurt Cobain Was Murdered\", claiming there were several discrepancies in the police reports, including several changes in the nature of the shotgun blast. Lee acquired a video that was taped on April 8 from the tree outside Cobain's garage, showing the scene around Cobain's body, which he claimed showed a marked absence of blood for what was reported as a point-blank shotgun blast to the head. Several pathology experts have stated that a shotgun blast inside the mouth often results in less blood, unlike a shotgun blast to the head.\n\nThe main proponent of foul play surrounding Cobain's death is Tom Grant, a private investigator employed by Love after Cobain's disappearance from rehab. Grant was still under Love's employment when the body was found, and came to believe that Cobain's death was a homicide. There are several components to Grant's theory.\n\nOn April 14, 1994, the \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\" reported that Cobain was \"high on heroin when he pulled the trigger\". The paper reported that the toxicological tests determined that the level of morphine in Cobain's bloodstream was 1.52 milligrams per liter and that there was also evidence of valium in his blood. The report contained a quote from Dr. Randall Baselt of the Chemical Toxicological Institute, stating that Cobain's heroin level was at \"a high concentration, by any account\". He also stated that the strength of that dose would depend on many factors, including how habituated Cobain was to the drug. Grant argues that Cobain could not have injected himself with such a dose and still have been able to pull the trigger.\n\nGrant does not believe that Cobain was killed by the heroin dose. He suggests that the heroin was used to incapacitate Cobain before the final shotgun blast was administered by the perpetrator. Grant, Wallace, and Halperin have used the dosage reported in the \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\", not the actual autopsy report, and may not have the correct figure. The Seattle police cannot release the information to the media because reports and records of autopsies are confidential and protected under state and federal law.\n\nWhile working for Love, Grant was given access to Cobain's suicide note and used her fax machine to make a photocopy, which has since been widely distributed. After studying the notes, Grant believed that it was actually a letter written by Cobain announcing his intent to leave Love, Seattle, and the music business. Grant asserts that the lines at the very bottom of the note, separate from the rest, are the only parts implying suicide. While the official report on Cobain's death concluded that Cobain wrote the note, Grant claims that the official report does not distinguish these final lines from the rest of the note and assumes it was entirely written by Cobain.\n\nDespite consulting with many handwriting experts, some disagree with Grant's claims. Document examiner Janis Parker concluded that the note was written by Cobain after spending two weeks examining the original copy. When \"Dateline NBC\" sent a copy of the note to four different handwriting experts, one concluded that the entire note was in Cobain's hand, while the other three said the sample was inconclusive. One expert contacted by the television series \"Unsolved Mysteries\" expressed the difficulty in drawing a conclusion, given that the note being studied was a photocopy, not the original. But in the very same documentary, two other experts found the writing, especially the last four lines, suspicious.\n\nThe shotgun, a 20-gauge Remington Model 11, was not checked for fingerprints until May 6, 1994. According to the Fingerprint Analysis Report, four latent prints were lifted, but they were not usable. The Seattle police's follow-up report states that the shotgun was inverted on Cobain's chest with his left hand wrapped around the barrel.\n\nGrant also cites circumstantial evidence from the official report. For example, the report claimed that the doors of the greenhouse could not have been locked from the outside, meaning that Cobain would have had to lock them himself. Grant claims that when he saw the doors for himself, he found that they could be locked and pulled shut. He also questions the lack of fingerprint evidence connecting Cobain to key evidence, including the shotgun. Grant notes that the official report claims that Cobain's fingerprints were also absent from the suicide note as well as the pen that had been shoved through it, and yet Cobain was found without gloves on. None of the circumstantial evidence directly points to murder, but Grant believes it supports the larger case.\nIn the docudrama \"Soaked in Bleach\", Grant actually claims that the \"cadaveric spasm\" was mentioned in the police reports, whilst many have said that it was clearly not.\n\nOn March 3, 1994, Cobain was in a coma in a hospital in Rome. At the time, his management agency, Gold Mountain Records, remarked that Cobain had accidentally taken too many painkillers due to him suffering from influenza and fatigue. After his death, Love claimed that Cobain's overdose in Rome was a suicide attempt, telling \"Rolling Stone\"'s David Fricke, \"He took 50 pills. He probably forgot how many he took. But there was a definite suicidal urge, to be gobbling and gobbling and gobbling.\"\n\nIn studying the Rome incident, journalists Ian Halperin and Max Wallace contacted Dr. Osvaldo Galletta, who treated Cobain after the incident. Galletta contested the claim that the Rome overdose was a suicide attempt, telling Halperin and Wallace, \"We can usually tell a suicide attempt. This didn't look like one to me.\" Galletta also specifically denied Love's claim that 50 Rohypnol pills were removed from Cobain's stomach.\n\nHowever, they also stated:\nGrant believes Courtney may have mixed a large number of pills into Kurt's champagne so that when he took a drink, he was actually unknowingly ingesting large amounts of the drug, enough to kill him. But if that's the case, why did she call the police when she found him unconscious on the floor? If she wanted Kurt dead, why didn't she just leave him on the floor until he died?\n\nGalletta also said that Cobain's recovery was aided by the intervention of Love, who called for help.\n\nGrant believes that the claim of the Rome incident being a suicide attempt was not made until after Cobain's death. He claims that people close to Cobain, including Gold Mountain Records, specifically denied the characterization prior to Cobain's death. Grant believes that if Rome had truly been a suicide attempt, Cobain's friends and family would have been told so that they could have watched over him. Others have asserted that the claims by Gold Mountain and others were simply efforts to mask what was happening behind the scenes. Lee Ranaldo, guitarist for Sonic Youth, told \"Rolling Stone\", \"Rome was only the latest installment of [those around Cobain] keeping a semblance of normalcy for the outside world.\"\n\nGrant spoke to Cobain's attorney, Rosemary Carroll, at her office on April 13, 1994. He said she pressed him to investigate Cobain's death, and that Cobain was not suicidal. Carroll also claims that Cobain had asked her to draw up a will excluding Love because he was planning to file for divorce. Grant said this was the motive for Cobain's death. Carroll also provided Grant with a handwriting practice note that she found in Love's backpack that was left at her home. It has been suggested that the handwriting on this practice note is markedly similar to the handwriting found on the last four lines of Cobain's suicide note.\n\nFilmmaker Nick Broomfield, deciding to investigate the theories himself, brought a film crew to visit a number of people associated with both Cobain and Love, including Love's estranged father, Cobain's aunt, and one of the couples' former nannies. Broomfield also spoke to The Mentors' bandleader Eldon \"El Duce\" Hoke, who claimed that Love had offered him $50,000 to kill Cobain. Although Hoke claimed that he knew who killed Cobain, he did not mention a name and offered no evidence to support his assertion. However, he mentioned speaking to someone called \"Allen\" (Allen Wrench), before quickly interjecting, \"I mean, my friend\", then laughing, \"I'll let the FBI catch him.\" Broomfield incidentally captured Hoke's final interview, as he died days later when he was struck by a train in the middle of the night.\n\nBroomfield titled the finished documentary \"Kurt & Courtney\", which was released on February 27, 1998. In the end, Broomfield felt he hadn't uncovered enough evidence to conclude the existence of a conspiracy. In a 1998 interview, he summed up his thoughts: \"I think that he committed suicide. I don't think that there's a smoking gun. And I think there's only one way you can explain a lot of things around his death. Not that he was murdered, but that there was just a lack of caring for him. I just think that Courtney had moved on, and he was expendable.\"\n\nJournalists Halperin and Wallace followed a similar path and attempted to investigate the murder theory themselves. Their initial work, the 1999 book \"Who Killed Kurt Cobain?\", drew a similar conclusion to Broomfield's film: while there wasn't enough evidence to conclusively prove foul play, there was more than enough to demand that the case be reopened. A notable element of the book included their discussions with Grant, who had taped nearly every conversation he had undertaken while he was working for Love. Halperin and Wallace insisted that Grant play the tapes of his conversations with Carroll so that they could confirm his story. Over the next several years, Halperin and Wallace collaborated with Grant to write a second book, 2004's \"\".\n\nGrant counters the claim that he profits from the sale of casebook kits on his website by stating that it offsets some of the costs of his investigation. Grant stated: \"I wrestled with that ... but if I go broke, I'll have to give up my pursuit and Courtney wins.\"\n\nSergeant Donald Cameron, one of the homicide detectives involved in the case, specifically dismissed Grant's theory, claiming, \"[Grant] hasn't shown us a shred of proof that this was anything other than suicide.\" Cameron, however, has been accused of being a personal friend of Love's. Dylan Carlson told Halperin and Wallace that he also did not believe that the theory was legitimate, and in an interview with Broomfield implied that if he believed that his friend was murdered, he would have dealt with it himself. In \"Kurt & Courtney\", he specifically states that he would kill Love and any others involved if he believed that they had murdered Cobain. He has criticized Grant's investigation.\n\nMany of Cobain's friends and family have supported the suicide verdict. Novoselic has voiced his opinion that Cobain killed himself. Cobain's friend Everett True also shared this opinion, along with Dave Grohl.\n\nSeveral of Cobain's friends have accepted that it was suicide, but were surprised when it happened. Mark Lanegan, a long-time friend of Cobain's, told \"Rolling Stone\": \"I never knew [Cobain] to be suicidal. I just knew he was going through a tough time.\" In the same article, Carlson stated that he wished Cobain or someone close to him had told him that Rome was a suicide attempt. Danny Goldberg, husband of Carroll and founder of Gold Mountain Records, refers in his book \"Dispatches From the Culture Wars: How the Left Lost Teen Spirit\" to \"the crazy Internet rumors that Kurt Cobain had not committed suicide but had been murdered,\" stating that Cobain's suicide \"haunts [him] every day\".\n\nIn August 2005, Sonic Youth's Kim Gordon was asked about Cobain's death in an interview for \"Uncut\" Magazine. When asked what she thought to be Cobain's motive in committing suicide, Gordon replied: \"I don't even know that he killed himself. There are people close to him who don't think that he did ...\" When asked if she thought someone else had killed him, Gordon answered, \"I do, yes.\" In the same interview, Gordon's then-husband and collaborator Thurston Moore stated: Kurt died in a very harsh way. It wasn't just an OD. He actually killed himself violently. It was so aggressive, and he wasn't an aggressive person, he was a smart person, he had an interesting intellect. So it kind of made sense because it was like: wow, what a fucking gesture. But at the same time it was like: something's wrong with that gesture. It doesn't really lie with what we know.\n\nAnthony Kiedis, lead singer of the Red Hot Chili Peppers, expressed his feelings in his autobiography, \"Scar Tissue\", writing: One day we were working and got a call from Lindy, who informed us that Kurt Cobain had killed himself. The news sucked the air out of the entire house, I didn't feel like I felt when Hillel died; it was more like \"The world just suffered a great loss.\" Kurt's death was unexpected ... It was an emotional blow, and we all felt it. I don't know why everyone on earth felt so close to that guy; he was beloved and endearing and inoffensive in some weird way. For all of his screaming and all of his darkness, he was just lovable.\n\nThe song \"Tearjerker\" from the band's \"One Hot Minute\" album was written about Cobain.\n\nA musical hero of Cobain's, Greg Sage, said about him in an interview: Well, I can't really speculate other than what he said to me, which was, he wasn't at all happy about it, success to him seemed like, I think, a brick wall. There was nowhere else to go but down, it was too artificial for him, and he wasn't an artificial person at all. He was actually, two weeks after he died, he was supposed to come here and he wanted to record a bunch of Leadbelly covers. It was kind of in secret, because, I mean, people would definitely not allow him to do that. You also have to wonder, he was a billion-dollar industry at the time, and if the industry had any idea at all of him wishing or wanting to get out, they couldn't have allowed that, you know, in life, because if he was just to get out of the scene, he'd be totally forgotten, but if he was to die, he'd be immortalized.\n\nCobain's grandfather, Leland Cobain, publicly said that he believes Cobain \"was murdered\" and not the victim of suicide.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "194318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194318", "title": "Vostok 5", "text": "Vostok 5\n\nVostok 5 (, \"Orient 5\" or \"East 5\") was a joint mission of the Soviet space program together with Vostok 6; as with the previous pair of Vostok 3 and Vostok 4 the two Vostok spacecraft came close to one another in orbit and established a radio link.\n\nSeveral delays plagued the prelaunch preparations of Vostok 5, the biggest being concern over elevated solar flare activity. At this early phase, it was not well understood what effects this might have on the spacecraft and its passenger, so the planned launch date of 11 June was postponed a few days. On the 14th, Bykovsky was strapped into the capsule awaiting liftoff when further delays occurred. A gyroscope in the Blok E stage malfunctioned and needed to be replaced, but this would mean removing the propellants from the booster, taking it down from the pad back to the vehicle assembly building, and delaying the launch another several days. It was decided to take the calculated risk of simply doing the repair work on the fully fueled launch vehicle. A replacement gyroscope was quickly installed and liftoff took place at 2:59 PM Moscow time. One last minor problem popped up when a pad umbilical failed to disconnect, but as soon as the booster began lifting, it was yanked out. The launch proceeded without any difficulties, although the Blok E stage slightly underperformed and put the spacecraft into a lower-than-intended orbit at 108x137 miles (175x222 kilometers) versus the normal 112x146 miles (181x235 kilometers).\n\nCosmonaut Valery Bykovsky was originally intended to stay in orbit for eight days, but the mission details changed many times due to elevated levels of solar flare activity at the time and he was eventually ordered back after five days. This remains the record for solo manned flight in Earth orbit. In addition, the low orbit of the spacecraft made it uncertain as to whether decay would not occur in under eight days. This combined with solar flare activity affecting the diameter of the Earth's atmosphere might potentially introduce drag that could not only cause premature reentry, but result in Vostok 5 landing almost anywhere on Earth.\n\nBykovsky performed a couple of simple scientific experiments in orbit and also practiced exercise and testing his body's reactions to weightlessness. In the postflight debriefing, he would say that the overall design of the spacecraft was good, but the clock was in a location that made it hard to see and the instrument panel was placed too far away. The first aid kit could not be reached at all without unstrapping from the seat. Like Valentina Tereshkova, he noted that the helmet headset produced sharp, unpleasant noise. He described the food as generally of good quality, although it probably should not be eaten before launch.\n\nA problem with the spacecraft's waste collection system is reported to have made conditions \"unpleasant\" in the capsule. The only other difficulty encountered was that, like on Vostok 1 and Vostok 2, the re-entry module failed to separate cleanly from the service module when it was time for Bykovsky to come home and he experienced several seconds of sharp vibrations following separations.\n\nThe Vostok 5 landing coordinates were , 2 km northwest of Karatal, North Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan; and 550 km northwest of Karagandy, Kazakhstan. A group of local farmers greeted Bykovsky prior to rescue crews arriving. At the landing location is a small fenced park with two monuments. One monument is a 10-meter tall silver rectangle with a small stone marker nearby listing the date of the landing. The second monument is an L-shaped sandy colored stone structure. One leg of the \"L\" is an observation deck with stairs leading to it. The other leg of the \"L\" has a space-themed mural carved into the stone face. The mural depicts a floating cosmonaut in a spacesuit surrounded by stars, telescopes, planets, and the Sun.\n\nThe re-entry capsule is on display at the Tsiolkovsky Museum in Kaluga.\n\n"}
{"id": "28232993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28232993", "title": "Wewe Gombel", "text": "Wewe Gombel\n\nWewe Gombel is a female supernatural being or ghost in Javanese mythology. It is said that she kidnaps children. \n\nThis myth is taught to encourage children to be cautious and to stay at home at night. Traditionally, the Wewe Gombel is represented as a woman with long, hanging breasts. Modern representations include vampire-like fangs. This is a popular spirit that also appears in comics.\n\nThe ghost was named Wewe Gombel because it is related to an event that, according to ancient folklore, happened in Bukit Gombel, Semarang, where long ago a married couple lived. \nThey had been married for years, but as time went by the husband realized that his wife was barren and stopped loving her. The husband became wayward, neglecting his wife and leaving her alone for long periods of time, so that she lived in sorrow. One day she followed him and caught him in a sexual relationship with another woman. Hurt by her husband's betrayal she became furious and killed him. Faced with the crime, angry neighbors gathered in a mob and chased her from the village. Despairing at the ostracization and continual harassment, she committed suicide. \n\nAfter death her vengeful spirit became Wewe Gombel. Sundanese folklore says that she dwells in the crown of the \"Arenga pinnata\" palm, where she has her nest and keeps the children she catches. She does not harm them and once they are under her clutches they are not afraid of her.\n\nLocal traditions say that the children she abducts have been mistreated or neglected by their parents. She treats the children lovingly as a grandmother would, taking care of them and protecting them until their parents repent, at which point she returns them.\n\nWewe Gombel has affinities with the ghost known as Hantu Kopek in Malay folklore.\n\nWewe Gombel has been featured in Indonesian movies, such as the 1988 film Wewe Gombel and the 2012 film Legenda Wewe Gombel (The Legend of Wewe Gombel). Representations of Wewe Gombel are sometimes part of popular local festivals.\n\n"}
{"id": "10094642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10094642", "title": "Zoidogamy", "text": "Zoidogamy\n\nZooidogamy is a type of plant reproduction in which male gametes (antherozoids) swim in a path of water to the female gametes (archegonium). Zoidogamy is found in algae, bryophytes, pteridophytes, and some gymnosperms (others use siphonogamy). Zoidogamy relates to evolution, as it provides a pathway from wind-borne abiotic pollination and similar mechanisms to fluid-based mechanisms used in most animals.\n"}
